

’Si THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
B. O. WATKINS CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney;
Mining and Contractors 7 Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secondhand Plants always available.
Advance
on all classes of
security
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “DAILY TELEGRAPH” NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTAGE BENNETT, Genet.! Manager
nr-
m
ci
nE«LT/!Y
Oxidising Sewage Disposal.
ovei>4oo Successful Installations in New
South Wales. Leading Doctors, Hospitals and
Convents have this Process Installed. Other
Systems easily converted to Oxidising Process.
Prices based in ratio to number of persons,
as few example's quoted: Six Persons, £4O; 50
Persons, £100; 500 Persons, £275 ; 1000 Per-
sons, £540. We take over and maintain our
installations from One Guinea per annum.
The Montgomerie-Neilson Process,
SO Young Street (late Offices of the Education
Department), Sydney. Tel., City 8976.
•THE BEST !
B
Vi
83
nd
n
U
U
n
n
RAWSON MOODY ALL-STEEL FENCE
built with powerful steel posts and wire, and
possessing wonderful advantages over wOQden
post fences, as it saves 80 per cent, in erection
labor and weighs only 25 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For full particulars write to The Rawson Moody Mfg\ Co., 343 Kent St.,
Sydney, or send for an Illustrated Catalogue B.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by uumeeous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
J'unnet,
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tahlets acts
most beneficially when takes daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
jicJ^
Under most conditions will outlast iron
but costs less than half as much.
Malthoid is a light-weight, weather-prpof roofing, comfortable all the year round, and
with a little attention will last longer than any structure.
“Not the same as others,”
and, in addition to being perfect for roofings, is also invaluable for balconies, veran-
dahs, bathrooms, factories and so on.
Illustrated booklet and samples mailed post free.
Xhe Paraffine Paint Company (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL & FARM WAGGONS. IRON &t MALLEABLE CASTINGS. SHREDDER DISCS.
Arthur i &
■? MACHINERY.
DENBY MOTOR LORRIES
Selected by America’s Chief Post Office, New York, as THE BEST.
Several 2%-Ton Models STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE : THE QUAY, SYDNEY.
And AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street, BRISBANE.
GILBERT LODGE & CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney. 115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. Q. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
KENDALL & GENT LTD.
WM. COOKE & CO. LTD.
BROWN BAYLEY’S STEEL WORKS LTD.
GLOBE PNEUITATIC ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
WEBSTER & BENNETT.
UIU IVdU
TOOTH
Gives a Sense of Clean
C«./,gU»<arr» ML£±AA±la.
A Concentrated Perfi me
but with the Delicacy of
FRF7QNF
LAVENDER
The Bulletin
Yol. 38.— N0. 1962. j
[Thursday, September 20, 19 1 7.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Sensation of a Century!
DAVID GRAHAM PHILLIPS His Great Novel
SUSAN LENOX,
HER FALL AND RISE.
Supplies Now Ready. Price 8/6, Posted 9/-
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George St., Sydney; and at Bourke St., Melbourne.
FOR THE- LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes,
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA, and the PREVENTION
OF CONSUMPTION.
Unlike Cough Medicines, Eumenthol Jujubes do
not interfere with the digestion. On the contrary
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the
food.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt
of Stamps, from
Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical Company Ltd.
19 York Street. Sydney.
*
v n
A—The Larynx,
or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea,
or windpipe. y~T
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D—A lobe of one
Of the lungs.
[3
The Red Page
Cinquains
PHASES OF THE MOOE .
Her eyes
In moon-wine steeped
Bred trust, hut in my room
The lam* vtUfeT hardily. Out peeped
Two- mL I. If fj
s f w- N. Gillespie.
a'/ THE POk£
Alone, l y<f:rj -c ;
LB'eamlng al&ne, V /
His I'Me-ijAngeiijMncif' sweeps
Fort'fiXfiejpujfawerntetprZ quest:
A loan/ __ " ' —""
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
Is Civilisation on the Down-grade?
The comforting belief that our civilisation
is destined to progress indefinitely receives
a qualified denial from the conclusions drawn
by H. G. F. Spurrell in his valuable his-
torical study of Modern Man and His Fore-
runners (Bell, 7s. 6d. in London). The
science of Anthropology has been revolution-
ised within the last decade by a number of
bewildering discoveries, utterly upsetting
ideas long considered established. Thus it
is proved that man of the type existing to-
day has undergone very little change for
the last 200,000 years. And when he is
traced back this distance in time he is
found to be living side by side with another
species of man every bit as human and as
advanced in development, but structurally
as different from modern man as the gorilla
from the chimpanzee. That race, highly
cultured, and with minds similar to our own,
died out. Other races which survived made
an independent start later. This is but one
of the many instances that Spurrell adduces
to prove that civilisation is not a progres-
sive phenomenon: it does not go on auto-
matically from good to better: it is a com-
paratively rare and intermittent thing.
If any animal seemed unlikely to survive
in the struggle for existence owing to its
lack of equipment it was man. The clue to
his survival is his extraordinary versatility.
For purposes of speed, armament and con-
cealment the human form was inadequate
and could not be adapted. Other animals
specialised in one of these qualities: man
had to be versatile, to adapt himself to every
variety of environment, and thus he learnt
to make use of his collective powers, the
powers of other animals, and mechanical
appliances to supply the deficiencies of his
own physique.
So little has the modern type of man
changed in the last 200.000 years that were
an individual whose bones have been un-
earthed from pleistocene deposits clothed in
modern dress —which would easily fit him—
he would pass unnoticed in a modern crowd
of strikers or politicians. But if the ex-
periment could be tried with one of his con-
temporaries of the Neanderthal race he
wouldn’t lit our modern clothes and would
create a sensation. He was a massive,
bulky, gorilla-like brute, but he had a large
brain; and 200,000 years ago he could talk,
was right-handed and artistic, and was as
civilised as our own ancestors. Yet he was
wiped out, nobody really knows why. There
were other races that subsequently developed
from the main stock that also were wiped
out, though three main branches, the black,
the white and the yellow, survive. The
conclusions reached by scientists are that it
required possibly 12,000 years to enable a
small portion of mankind to build up the
civilisation we know and keep historical re-
cords of the process, and that this period is,
after all, only an episode.
Another race that disappeared is termed
the Cro-Magnon, once the dominant race of
the earth. They were over six feet in
height, while all others were not much over
five feet; and they managed to reach a high
degree of civilisation. “The Cro-Magnon
men attained to something very near to abso-
lute perfection in artistic achievements.
Some of their carvings are exquisite.
“In their paintings, which can still be seen
on the walls of caves, they show mastery of
color as well as of line. In many of their
animal paintings we find color, proportion
and perspective correctly rendered and - in-
spired with that indefinite something we call
artistic feeling... .fWhy did these men with
large brains in well-shaped heads, with pow-
erful physiques and acute perceptions, falter
and stop in their career of achievement, and
vanish, leaving mankind to start afresh?
Just as they became extinct and cannot be
traced in surviving races, so, too, did their
accomplishments die with them. Their art
came to an end, and even the stone weapons
of the men who came after them were made
in a different way.”
It is suggested by Spurrell that the Cro-
Magnon race, composed of men of intelli-
gence and refinement perhaps equal to the
civilised man of to-day, never hit on civilisa-
tion because they had no need for it: they
were hunters and their territory was so
sparsely occupied that they did not need any
high organisation to obtain the necessities
of life. Thus they left behind them no
ruined cities, no evidence of a written lan-
guage.
J*
And thus we reach Spurrell’s theory of the
origin of civilisation. “The period of civil-
. .ion is distinctly a phase. Civilisations
are entities which arise, grow, mature, decay,
and are succeeded, not renewed; and the
later civilisations differ amazingly little in
essentials, details, or destiny from the earli-
est.” To begin a civilisation a vegetative
race must be conquered by a predatory race.
Only by the leaven of conquerors in the
mass of the conquered is civilisation possible :
and the most important factor in the devel-
opment of all civilisations is the invention
of slavery. All civilisation, including our
own, is based on slavery. The masters learn
needs unthought of if they had had to satisfy
them by their own exertions ; and slaves work
with a diligence and skill that they would
not have developed except by the fear of the
lash.
A civilisation reaches its height only after
it has defeated a dangerous rival. “There
is an age of Pericles, an Augustan age, an
Elizabethan age, or some such period of
florescence in the history of most civilisa-
tions. It is invariably followed by a reac-
tion of disappointment: the realisation that
the glorious slavery is slavery still, and the
whole population grows restive under the
yoke....A rebellion against all forms of
authority begins which ends in the destruc-
tion of the civilisation, and the escape of the
slaves towards an animal existence, pending
the arrival of fresh masters to begin the
cycle anew... .Civilisation is not an ordi-
nance for the good of mankind, but a condi-
tion of existence which may or may not
be satisfactory. It comes- into being and
grows in efficiency only when the bulk of the
people are controlled from without. As
soon as the external guidance is removed and
the control has to be supplied from within it
must collapse.”
Though civilisations started independently
in widely-separated foci, each had a similar
development. Ancient Babylonian and Cre-
tan civilisations met their difficulties much
as does modern civilisation in Europe. When
the Spaniards reached Mexico they found
that the Aztecs had a calendar more accurate
than their own. “Military commanders
were faced by the problem of defending long
frontiers thousands of years before the
modern European armies confronted one
another in entrenchments extending across
the continent.” In ancient Babylon all
children were taught to read and write;
and we learn with delight that the Baby-
lonian post office was efficiently run. though
our P.M.G. would have even more difficulty
in making our service pay if every letter was
a baked brick. In ancient Crete the build-
ings were four storeys high and “the stair-
cases, decoration, bathrooms, upstairs and
downstairs water-closets with apparatus for
flushing and traps for examining the drains
testify to a knowledge of sanitary science
that was soon after lost and only fully re-
covered ’ Tr another civilisation nearly 40
centuries later.... In dress the Cretan
women were strikingly like modern Euro-
peans. Their long, many-fiounced skirts,
their high-collared, embroidered, puff-sleeved
bodices, laced-in waists, gloves and bi'oad-
rimmed, fancifully-trimmed hats were all
‘modern.’ ” Fraud and embezzlement by
government officials appears to be as old as
civilisation: the Babylonians were skilled in
“graft” thousands of years before the Ameri-
cans invented the word.
The progress of the world, thus, is an
alternation of periods of civilisation with
breaks of chaotic disorder coming between;
and each civilisation has to start afresh
again. The end of every civilisation is the
same: as it grows so it must die. With
reference to the present war, the author
points out that there is no longer possible
the relief to overcrowded communities by
the throwing open of empty lands: our
period of rest is over.
Man remains unchanged through each of
bis recurring cycles of civilisations. The
effect upon him of achieving rapid results
with labor-saving machinery and explosives
has been very slight. The ancients built
their temples and made their roads and
canals without such aids: their lack of
machinery was balanced by an abundance
of cheap slave labor. There was no need
to invent the steam engine when there were
slaves to do the steam-engine’s work. “We
know with what rapidity an army of trained
slave copyists could produce a manuscript
edition of a new book in the days of the
Roman Empire.” Tlie daily newspaper is
older than printing; and printing has merely
cheapened expression, rather than raised our
intellectual standard. “The present civilisa-
tion has of late years been moving fast.
One cannot fail to be struck by the resem-
blance between this ‘progress’ and the pro-
cess of decay which, from its invariable re-
currence - in the cycle of previous civilisa-
tions, appears to be the normal method of
decline.”
Is the end that awaits all civilisations
upon us now? The system that started with
a conquering race cracking the whip over
the head of a subject population has grown
until all men alike are slaves of the system.
We call this slavery democracy: every man
has acquired the right to be tlie slave of the
State. The world is everywhere exhibiting
different forms of decay: we are. reaching
that form of democracy which disintegrated
the Athenian Republic; and the career of
Athenian democracy was not only disastrous
but brief. “The present war marks an
approaching equilibrium between population
and the resources of the world, and it may
possibly lead to a reconsideration through
the world of the rights aßd duties of indivi-
duals.” So, after all, we may be saved. But
the decline of national religions is an impres-
sive evidence of decay. In decadent Rome
Diocletian fixed prices, wages and the condi-
tions of labor. “We are struck by tlie famili-
arity of the disease and of the remedy which
only made it worse.... The labor unrest,
which seems to pervade the whole of our
civilisation, seems incurable. ” And the
advertisement of cheap and painless substi-
tutes for war has been a recurring feature
in the cycles of civilisations. But this civili-
sation differs from all others in being world
wide; it won’t be suddenly overwhelmed by
a cataclysm: it will take a good many wars
to wear it out.
“Reflecting on the fate of previous civili-
sations, we may well wonder which, if any,
of the achievements of our own will survive
it. It is quite possible that at some future
period, when another civilisation is being
built on the ruins of the present, the arts of
photography and flying may have to be rein-
vented, and the forces of steam and electri-
city rediscovered.. . .No one can say whether
our decline is to extend through decades or
centuries. It is even doubtful whether we
have yet reached the full height we are des-
tined to attain. But there seems no reason
for claiming greater permanence for the pre-
sent civilisation, in spite of its world-wide
achievements, than has been shown by any
ot the great civilisations of the past.”
J*
An extremely interesting and valuable
book. It opens vistas of speculation as to
the outcome of the present catastrophe, and
though not designed as a war book it sheds
a clear historical light on the meaning and
probable consequences of the war.
War
Shell Shock and Its Lessons, by Grafton
Elliot Smith and T. 11. Pear (Longmans,
Green; 2s. 6d. in England), is a valuable
and topical contribution to our knowledge of
that complex of maladies made so promifient
by the war. Smith is the Australian scien-
tist, born at Grafton, N.S.W., who has won
world-fame as a brain specialist and anthro-
pologist. He possesses almost every honor
that scientists can gain. Shell shock is
not a new disease: its problems are the
everyday problems of “nervous breakdown.”
They existed before the war, though they
were not so widely spread, and they will not
disappear with the coming of peace. A
better term for it is “war strain.” The chief
danger to be feared for the patient is his
belief that he is going insane; and the
modern method of treatment is to gain the
patient’s confidence, discover and explain the
cause of his symptoms to him, and treat
him, not as a candidate for the asylum, but
as a patient needing sympathy and rest.
Though erne disease, it may appear in many
forms; the shell explosion' may be but the
last straw—the patient often discloses the
fact that he was displaying all his present
symptoms before the arrival of the particu-
lar shell which laid him out. Shell shock is
often due to the men suppressing emotional
states, such as fear, sympathy or nausea.
The suppression of emotion is a very ex-
hausting process; and in warfare such emo-
tions must be held in check for extraordi-
narily long periods of time. So it is pre-
cisely those whose past history proves them
to possess abnormal courage, who show the
most severe and distressing symptoms of
shell shock: there is no connection between
shell shock and “funk.” The authors empha-
sise the fact that shell shock, if intercepted
at its earliest stages, may frequently be
cured with ease. The authors go fully into
the necessary treatment, one important fac-
tor of which is to reach down into the
patient’s subconscious mind to unearth deep-
seated causes of his physical and mental
symptoms, Once the causes are discovered
from the patient’s history or even from his
dreams, and these are explained to him, he
is usually well set on the road to recovery.
I. he authors take the stand that the medical
lessons taught by the war and so successful
with the war-stricken soldier should be
applied, now and when peace comes, to the
relief of the civilian, and thus snatch from
the lunatic asylum many a mind disordered
winch under our present methods is actually
hurried there.
Jt
Another of those interesting collections of
short stories based on actual experience of
the war, the most vital of all forms of pre-
sent fiction, is Soldier Men , by Yeo (Lane).
Though the Australian reader has a vague
prejudice against anything that “has already
appeared in Punch,” it must be said that
these portions-of this volume are the least
important, though even these, exercises in
the dramatic form, are amusing. But his
gallery of characters in his more serious
stones affords more thoughtful entertain-
menl. Billjim will recognise, though ti,
author is concerned solely with fIJ 'r the
the bragger who after an heroic
nothing to say about it, but when contJL
cent relapses into his boasts. And tl J
of a fresh young lieutenant, obsessed hv
anticipation of his feelings under hre
finding it all so different from his exmeei?
turns, must awaken memories in maiv
young Australian. This English lieutenant*
on Ins task in Egypt, a patrol i n the
desert, is startled by- his sergeant suddenly
saying: There’s a nice patch of H nriS
onions over there by that ’ouse sir r 8
poral Paster will see about them though'
’E’s got an empty nosebag.” Spring oni
And in an hour they might be chargin?
enemy with swords! And when he comes
under shellfire he had a sensation of sicken
ing shock. “His first horrible thought was
that he was a failure. He had suffered in
those few seconds the ultimate quality of
pure fear. His whole elaborate edifice of
argument had disappeared at a touch. The
most violent emotion he had ever had in his'
life. . . .But there seemed an invisible barrier
between this emotion and action. H e ~V en
had time to wonder that the forces which
kept him in the saddle and kept his voice
steady and his face expressionless- -the
forces of tradition and character—should
seem at the moment so weak, while the emo-
tion which seemed so predominatingly strong
should be so powerless to affect him.”
The case of the man at Gallipoli who
forced himself to do a reckless deed from
the conviction tlmf his platoon thought him
a coward, and yet all the way down to the
beach suffered an agony of fear, is a true
psychological study of our humanity. Spinks,
too, must have enlisted in the A.I.F. He
was a boy-scout leader, and saw war roman-
tically. Of course, he was disillusioned.
When he was hit he felt annoyed. His
officer consoled him with the remark that
Spinks had anyhow seen what war was like.
“It ain’t what I expected, though, quite,” he
said with a world of disillusionment in his
voice. “I was hit just as I was bending
down cooking a bit of bacon. It ain’t what
I thought it was during training, sir. There
ain’t the scope for it, somehow.”
It is the little touches of actual observa-
tion that give such a book its verity. “They
went down together, and Private Runnett
found himself kneeling on his adversary.
The man spat at him. Private Runnett
drew his bayonet and poked at the man’s
face. The point slinned, and the man
screamed and struggled. It flashed through
Private Runnett’s mind that he had never
realised before that there was bone behind
a face. He poked again—harder this time-
near the neck. The man coughed and
stopped struggling. Private Runnett stood
up, trembling a little. ‘Lor,’ he said, ‘you
did give me a start!’ ” And here is a flash of
observation during a charge: “He saw
horses and riders pitch headlong; as he
flashed past the struggling heap he would
see for an instant sharp against the black of
the horse’s coat the dark red liquid mark of
the bullet.”
S
Muirhead Bone is an English artist whose
drawings of the war have no drama in them.
He sees the war as a commonplace, dreary
and desolate thing. A series of his tinted
drawings of the Front in France is being
issued in monthly parts by English Country
Ltfe, by authority of the War Office, at a
florin a part (in England). The artists
work is obviously done on the spot, a series
of monotonous sections of ruin and misery.
But the monotony in his drawings is inevit-
able, since his subject has always the same
background—buildings reduced to heaps of
stones, trenches flattened out of existence,
and shell-smashed trees that look like the
grotesque goblin forests in .Rackham’s fairy
drawings. In fact, there is all the differ-
ence between his drawings and those of his
more popular artist friends that there is
between a French official photograph of an
actual charge—insignificant figures appar-
ently crawling towards an unseen trench—
and the artists’ pictures of possibly the same
charge—full of fury and heroism and drama.
Muirhead Bone’s work will have historical
value. In the latest issue the artist dis-
courses on deserts. The Somme possesses
the most evenly finished of all these war-
made deserts. Over hill, meadowland and
valley there was laid in 1916 “a kind of
spotted brown counterpane or mask winch
makes them all look alike. The spots on
this cloth are dense along its middle and
grow less dense towards its fringe. It must
seem now as if the villages, with all their
differences of look, and the various greens or
yellows of the old crops, must surely be
hidden under this spotted coverlet. Rut
really they are not there, and the brown is
that of bare and raw earth, and the. spots
are shell-holes.” There is another kind 0
desert made by the enemy as he retreated,
but Bone shows that this destruction was
not. as claimed by the Hun, scientifically
cold-blooded. “When you find houses, of
some use as billets, left standing, but all
the heads chipped off the little figures 0
angels and saints in tlie reredos of , aI J
ancient church, you cannot quite feel that
military necessity accounts for it all.
When the German commanders had
time both to impede the pursuing Bnns
army and also to cut dow T n the village
priest’s half-grown cherry trees, they nwfl®
certain of the cherry trees. Nasty htu
monkey-minds, haven’t they?


A
aae
Light
Running
WHITE
Sewing
Machines
There is no better machine made than
the World-renowned WHITE, which
combines Simplicity, Quality and Econ-
omy with faithful construction and
elegant finish.
BUY THE WHITE—
To turn out more and better sewing with
less labor;
For its light-running, easy-sewing qualities;
For its fine mechanical adjustment;
For its beauty of construction and dura-
bility ;
For its incomparable labor-saving devices,
which are exclusively WHITE —for ex-
ample, its tension indicator, etc.; for its
attachments and improved features, which
enable unfinished work to be removed and
replaced at will.
White Sewing Machines are sold all over Australia. Price Lists may be obtained
from any of the Agencies:—
N.S.W.—Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Only Universal Providers, New
Palace Emporium, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
VICTORIA—BuckIey and Nunn Ltd., B surke Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE—Shaw and Sons Ltd., The Granite Buildings, 241 Queenj
Street; also at Toowoomba, Bundaberg and Mackay.
TOWNSVILLE—McKimmin & Richardson Ltd., Criterion House.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA —William Sandover & Co., Hay Street, Perth.
SHOE SATISFACTION.
JUST THE RIGHT FIT in LADIES’ BOOTS and SHOES means
COMFORT for FEET, BODY and MIND. After EXCELLENCE of
MATERIAL, SHAPELINESS and STYLE comes the question of COST.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES ASSURE ABSOLUTELY"
TOP QUALITY at BOTTOM PRICE; the IMMENSE VARIETY of the
BEST FOOTWEAR MADE that is SHOWN in the BOOT DEPARTMENT
enables us to MEET the REQUIREMENTS of EVERYONE, and SUPPLY
a BOOT to FIT every FOOT. We enumerate a few examples:
Ladies’ Glace Kid Derby Shoes (as illus-
tration No. 1). Patent Toecap. Welted
Soles, Cuban Heels.. 18/6, 19/9, 21/-
Ladies’ Glace Kid Oxford Shoes (as
illustration No. 2). Whole Goloshed,
Patent Toecap, Welted Soles and Cuban
Heels 13/9, 15/9, 19/6
Glace Kid Oxford Lace Shoes, straight
patent toecaps, welted soles, smart Cuban
heels, latest French last 16/6
Glace Kid Oxford Lace Shoes, straight
patent toecaps, medium toes, welted soles,
Cuban heels, smart shape 19/6
Glace Kid Derby Lace Shoes, straight
patent toecaps, medium toes, welted soles,
leather Cuban heels .. 19/9
Glace Kid Oxford Lace Shoes, straight
patent toecaps, medium toes, pump soles,
leather Cuban heels 16/9
NO. I
%
NO. 2
Glace Kid Derby Lace Shoes, straight patent toecaps, welted soles, smart Cuban
heels 13/9
Tan Calf Lace Shoes, welted soles, Cuban heels, latest French last 17/9
Tan Calf Court Walking Shoes, medium toes, high Cuban heels, welted
soles 17/6
X
Ladies who desire that commanding grace of
figure so much sought after by femininity can go a
long way towards gaining that perfection by wearing
IZOD’S CORSETS, the last word in British Corset
Manufacture. This renowned make possesses features
which stand out prominently from other makes —a
visit to our new Corset Department will undoubtedly
prove this.
IZOD’S CORSETS are distinctly comfortable
not only after being some time in wear, but from the
time of purchase. In this respect they differ from
other makes.
IZOD’S CORSETS are made of the best cloths, some of the models
having double skirts, and strength—and consequently durability—is
assured by means of duplex boning, a feature of IZOD’S CORSE IS.
ANOTHER DESIRABLE FEATURE IN IZOD'S CORSETS is
that they are made to wash. Each pair carries our guarantee that this
can be done without detriment to the corsets, and, besides, we will
replace any IZOD CORSET which may break, rust or tear. The
prices range from 4/13, there being a model for every type of figure.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST, POSTED FREE.
WRISTLET WATCHES.
oTtann |C 8
?SL 9 s/di
■A
a
WRISTLET WATCHES have
COME into ALMOST UNIVER-
SAL WEAR by LADIES within
the PAST FEW YEARS, on
account of their DISTINCTLY
ORNATE APPEARANCE and
CONVENIENCE. The ASSORT-
MENT of LADIES’ WRISTLET
WATCHES at the NEW
PALACE EMPORIUM is EX-
TENSIVE, both in STYLE and
PRTCE. They are offered in
OXIDISED. SILVER and GOLD
CASES. We enumerate below
GOLD WRISTLET WATCHES
fitted with EXPANDING
BRACELETS. They are REAL
SATISFACTION-GIVERS.
15ct. Gold Square-head Wristlet Watch, with patent expanding Bracelet,
highly-finished, extra-jewelled movement, compensating balance, case mounted
with twelve brilliant diamonds £25
15ct. Gold Oval-shaped Wristlet Watch, as above, but without diamonds £l4
15ct. Gold Sexagon-shaped Wristlet Watch £lO/5/-
15ct. Gold Round-shaped Wristlet Watch, £ll/11, £lO/10/-, £9, £B/8/-
9ct. Gold Wristlet Watch, with patent expanding Bracelet, highly finished, 15-
jewel movement, a perfect timekeeper.. £9/9/-, £B/8/-, £7/15/-, £6/6/-
Varied Selection of other makes, all fitted with expanding Bracelets —
£5/5/-, £4/15/-, £4/10/-, £4/4/-, £3/5/-
The Celebrated Fenchurch Gold Wristlet Watches, fitted with expanding
Bracelet £B, £6/15/-, £4/4/-
The Celebrated Fenchurch Gold Wristlet Watch, with Leather Strap.. 85/-
ANTHONY HORDERN h SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^
Shotgun Shells
"Leader” and “Repeater n
For the high flyers, or the low flyers,
“Leader” and “Repeater” shells have
the reach, spread and penetration.
Their great sale is due to these qual-
ities, which insure a full bag. Use them
in your gun. To be sure to get them
ASK FOR THE W BRAND
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
I
r«
s
fi
r*
Ji
“My machine has now
run 3 0,0 0 0 miles
without any renewals
to engine, except rings
and valve springs.”
A. McCAW, Monkseaton.
That is the kind of service the
Ariel gives; always long and
satisfactory.
Art List mailed free.
Ariel Works Ltd.
36 BOURNBROOK, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Agents : TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY : 363 George Stree ,
ADELAIDE: IS2 Rundle Str. et.
MELBOURNE: Elizabeth Street.
Ariel
f
Roberts Motors
Marine Motors Aircraft Motors
Farm Engines
Efficient Dependable
Continuous Hard Service under all conditions
stamps ROBERTS MOTORS “Thoroughly
Efficient and Dependable.”
Roberts Marine Motors are adaptable to all types and sizes
of Boats from light Pleasure Craft to Cruisers, Submarine
Chasers and Patrol Boats; Special Heavy Duty Motor for
Fishermen’s use.
Roberts Farm Engines —durable, dependable engines for
farm use.
Roberts Aircraft Motors are designed to
meet conditions peculiar to this field of
motor activity.
Specifications and terms on request.
Roberts Motor Mfg. Company
Sandusky> Ohio, XJ.S.A.
Cable Address ROMOCO.
[3
EELB33
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving ou* disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
So!d in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
are: you >
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding- our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT ' SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within tne
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
"MILLER”
LIGHTING FIXTURES AND LAMPS
No. L 2318
Electric—Gas Oil
When you ask for a "Miller”
Lamp no matter whether of
the Electric, Gas or Oil variety,
you are exercising good taste and
judgment and are assured of the
very best obtainable.
Styles for all requirements
Look oyer the "Miller” line NOW.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER 6? COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.


YOUR
SOLDIER
NEEDS and WANTS
Cinn&k
Because it Sterilises
all germs which infect the system
through the mouth, nose and throat.
Colds,
Sore Throats
Laryngitis,
Hoarseness.
Influenza,
Meningitis.
NO GLASS, WATER OR SPOON IS
NEEDED. Think of the convenience
and OP THE SAFETY, and send your
soldier a tube of Cinnak.
All Chemists, \j(j PER TUBE.
MontserraT
SAUCE
ft
§
&
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
Jjquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENCLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Ilunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
■<**
V/A
m.
(U-SA)
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. ERADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaiue.
T„ L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
If any illustration appearing _ in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
0981
*J»H f»l©S
«OW MSIOI
SNCUO*JIW*JOB
'lhave sold it for overSOyead
says the retailer ” and there is
nothing in my stock that I can
more conscientiously recommend
for coughs and colds than Bonning-' 1
ton's Irish Moss. For. over half a
century it has been the standard,
never-failing remedy, and the public
have set their seal of approval upon
BOflflINGTOfl'S
IRISHMOSS
t ' —^
It acts like a charfn in cases of Whooping Cough, Croup, Coughs and Colds which
are the children s worst enemies. Always keep it handy Summer and Winter, but
be sure it's Bonnington s. Large and Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
,iJ»H Pl°C
40W HSIUI
yJIONI MWOS
Nothing contributes more
to secure happy temper in
a child than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby is as happy as
the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with the
youngest babe, is light, easily digested, safe.
Besides, “Mellin’s” is a no-worry food hot
water and fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
As important as
baby’s Food is
baby’s Feeder.
Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle stands
unique; hygienic,
efficient, easily
cleaned.
Mellin’s
Food
A Sample of Mellin's Food, with Handbook for Mothers,
“The Care of Infants in Australia,” sent Free. Write to-day:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LD., SYDNEY.
"firestone
ACCESSORIES
For Your Tool Kit
In times of emergency when repair shops
are miles away, you are not helpless,
provided you carry a Repair Kit,
supplied with Firestone Accessories.
Hook-On Outside Gaiters for
straight side or clincher tyres;
Lace-On Outside Gaiters for any
tyre; Blow-out Patches; Hold-
fast Cementless Tube Patches;
Pumps; “Cure-Cut” Cement;
Firestone Tyre Tape; Air
Pressure GaUfcesjTyre Mica;
Valve Parts, etc.
•Small things to carry, big
things to have, when
troubles come.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan ifc Fraser, Ltd., Adel-
aide, South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.,
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing
Co., Brisbane, Queens-
land.
A. Hatriek & Co., 1,1 d.,
Wanganui and Wel-
lington, New Zealand,
Obtainable at all
Oarages
Write for Illustra-
ted Literature.
n ni
wwpS
FtrftstotvJ
CURE - CUT
I
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring.
Io ! Io ! Evohe O !
The wine of Spring is in the air!
With leaves of Laughter in their hair
The merry, mad, young maenads blow
Their glad pipes everywhere.
The lord of Youth his thrysus swings
Above his round and jolly head,
As riding on a heifer red,
With flowery horns and flanks, he springs
Across the river bed.
He leads a jocund company
Of prancing kids and dimpled girls,
Whose whirling arms and flying curls
And feet afire with dancing glee
Are ripe for revelry.
They follow on. Io ! Io !
They leap his heifer’s back, limb-light;
Or pinch the silken sides and white
Of plump, young calves, that skipping go
To browse ’mid clover-snow.
And one, more merry than the rest,
Up-jumps and tugs and pulls him down.
She rolls with him, all free from frown
Amongst the grasses, breast to breast,
Till others join the jest.
They poke him with their pearly thumbs,
They tumble him from hand to hand.
He, dodging half the joyous band,
Nips soft in play the first who comes
And all her sweetness plumbs.
But doubled-up with mirth at last,
His hearty laugh rings blithely round.
The forest dimples at its sound
With flocks of flowers the bees hold fast;
And young birds chirrup past.
The wine of Spring is in the air!
Io! Jo ! Evohe O!
Drink deep! Drink long! The goblets
flow
With Life, and Joy that scatters Care,
And Youth reigns everywhere.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Seven Things and One.
There are seven things excellent in the
world,
And one that is good to know,
And here on the beach by the dawn im-
pearled
I’m glad things were ordered so.
There’s the sweet of a book : that’s an excel-
lent thing,
Be it midnight or languid noon,
And I wouldn’t give twopence for saint or
king
Who knows not a book’s brave boon.
And an excellent thing is the faith of a
friend,
However we suffer and stray ;
From the cradle at birth to the grave at the
end
It’s an excellent thing, I say.
A thing that is excellent, too, is wine,
When the morals or moods turn pale;
And very blithe songs (though the theme be
not mine)
May be sung in the praise of ale.
There are plenty evasive and plenty that lie;
But the naked and natural truth,
As the knaves and the fools with the days go
by,
Is an excellent thing, in sooth.
Though our hopes are a muddle of longings
that jar
And the gifts we desire hide a sting,
I gratefully own that a noble cigar
Is really an excellent thing.
’Twixt lips ripe with laughter that flicker
and curl
In coaxing or whimsical glee,
As excellent, sure, is the mouth of a girl
As temptation can possibly be.
Are we joyful or sad, he we foolish or wise.
There is one place of refuge we keep,
Most excellent truly to weary old eyes
Is the coming of Goodfellow Sleep.
And the one thing worth knowing, I beg
you to note,
Whatever the pathway you’ve trod.
If you’ve holes in your breeches or gold on
your coat,
Is that love is the heart of God.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Love’s Meed of Pain.
My love is very sweet and small.
How tender are her eyes!
She says that in her lover all
Her earthly comfort lies.
She kisses, and she softly says
Her mission is to bless
Her dearest darling’s mortal days
With changeless happiness.
She says she would my pathway spread
With every sweet device.
In asphodel to have me tread
And sleep in Paradise.
The little troubles she would lave
From tired eyes away,
And each rose-tangled sunbeam save
To light a duller day.
Are we apart a morn or less,
In tears half-drowned is she
If I do not with sighs confess
To utter misery.
If when she comes I do agree
My heart was deadly sad,
She pipes a note of ecstasy,
And all the day is glad !
VICTORIA.
D.


PERU
m
9m
%
■
£
V
m
--
- '
v.>
■■
■
.
m&i
4M
■9l
54
1.
V
■
Ml
'
••V
FROM ALL STORES
/VA N UFA CTCSRSD
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO LD.
SYDNEY- BBISBANE PERTH ADELAIDE
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
UtWYcR
PRICES
Single Elastic Truss, 20 -
Double Elastic Truss, 27/6
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
WOLSELEY
At present the Wolseley Works are on
war service and unable to supply pri-
vate customers, but we shall be pleased
to add your order to our waiting list,
to be fulfilled when we can resume
deliveries.
Agents:
F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
KELLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO.,
Russell Street, Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY,
Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide,
&
WOLSELEY MOTORS LIMITED,
ENGLAND.
Proprietors: VICKERS LIMITED.
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL <& CO..
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine=Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
- Vi
GOODRICH
F ull-sized Tyres
Are not made of “Pure Rubber” (no tyre is).
Of course they consist merely of “an Alloy” (every
tyre is).
But —it took some 47 years of Rubber Manufacturing
Experience to produce this “mere Alloy.”
It took the best efforts of the largest and ablest
Research Department possessed by any Rubber
Factory to develop it.
Result Rubber : multiplied in its efficiency for the
purpose intended, viz., tyres.
Efficiency in its clinging quality , its tenacious grip.
Through that it gives its maximum Traction,
with a minimum of Friction.
Hence—less wear on the tyre, longer life—and—
more mileage.
Moreover —Goodrich Tyres are “Full-sized,” and
therefore give you not only the longest distance
for the money invest, but longer life to
your car through less “Wear and Tear on its
Mechanism.”
Then add to these facts that Goodrich T} r res are
guaranteed —make comparisons - then try for
yourself.
DUVAL <O. CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE.
Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; A. C. MacCallum, Perth; Robt. Nettlefold, Hobart.
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Xewspaper
Vol. 38.—X0. 1962.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1917.
I ’rice 6d.
THE NEW POLICEMAN ON THE BEAT.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
I’ tinted and published, by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, fot 1®
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For Ml 6s. 6d. per annum, you can have Inn
Bulletin 1 sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas A umber, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, M 1 10s. per
annum. . ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused. .
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate airy
part of the contents of this number is hereby expi essly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, ivhether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are, specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stomps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings m line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of. each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., I'll Hastings Street,
Vancouver; B.C. ,
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley. News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco : Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal. : Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets. Chicago,
U.S.A. : J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnore Horn. Port Said, Egypt : .*/.
Jlovng, Cairo, Fount.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., l'edder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — ll'. G. P. Per era, 16 Bui Ih c Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai.
Postage Kate*.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maorxland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz.. id,: United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in eacn
packet — otherwise: Soz.. Id,; Sioz. to lOoz., 2id. :
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d. ; elsewhere, boz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ffluTZß'Cilleiz/Ti.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1917.
WANTED: A CARD SYSTEM FOR A
WHOLE CONTINENT.
When the Labor Unions of N. S. Wales
decided to down tools and hold up the coun-
try, the gear was changed and the shafts
went on turning at slower speed. There
was some inconvenience for the moment and
it looked as if the public would suffer seri-
ously ; but with a little volunteer labor which
the country districts could spare, backed by
the loyalty of a few men who stuck at the
nation's job. things have been kept moving
and the ordinary needs of life supplied. The
Australian is an adaptable person and, un-
like the new arrivals from Birmingham and
Liverpool who have gained such prominence
in industrial strife, he can turn his hand to
most things. Amateur coal-hewers are get-
ting out more coal than some of the men
who left the mines in the belief that nobody
could fill their places; amateur slaughtermen
are accused of doubling the output of beef.
The community is getting enough to eat,
something to cook its dinner with, a little
amusement —and the bulk of the men who
went out on strike are still out! 1 he whole
thing affords proof of the immense reserves of
man-power which we really possess for the
national job which we have undertaken. The
call to the bitter blood-struggle in Europe
which took away so many of our bravest and
1 >ost. and which, according to the yell of anti-
conscriptionists, had left us at the point of
exhaustion, was, on the evidence before us.
a thing that did not really tax our strength
at all; for with all our soldiers overseas and
huge bodies of our industrialists refusing to
serve their country either at home or abroad,
the wheels still turn sufficiently to enable us
to live in comparative comfort. All this we
suspected before; but the strikers have given
us proof. ' Australia has clearly possessed
all along an immense surplus of man-power
for the limited tasks the country has been
willing to undertake, and has been, in the
language of the strikers themselves, carrying
wage-earning parasites in all branches of
industry.
The war. which in desolating Europe has
bitten hard into the very foundations of the
unionism which makes strikes possible, is
being fought as much for the defence, of Aus-
tralia as for the restoration of Belgium. It
was up to us in Australia to put all possible
force into the arm with which we aided the
Allied cause. The cry that we hud put all
possible force into our blow is now shown to
be an idle one. If we had organised as a
nation at the outset, trained our eligible?
seriously and earnestly for the great defen-
sive struggle, and insisted that all our man-
power should be spent in the service of the
country either in the war-zone or in the
home trenches, it is beyond all question that
we could have done larger and better work
both abroad and in our own back yard. By
compulsory service all along the line, admin-
istered without favor or respect of persons,
but sympathetically and with intelligence,
we could have enormously increased our out-
put of fight at no extra cost to the country.
The waste in connection with our war
expenditure has been appalling. Some of it
was probably inevitable; some reflects the
blackest discredit on the administration, and
none the less black because the Censorship
has been and still is being used to keep the
facts from public knowledge in the interests
of political and military incompetents and
derelicts. Yet the waste of borrowed or
locally-raised millions has been small when
compared with the waste of man-power in
Australia. We have not struck our best
possible bloiv; we have not backed up the
blow we did strike by honest labor at home.
Australia, in the first great crisis of the con-
tinent’s history, has been in a very real sense
betrayed by' those who enjoy all the privileges
of Commonwealth citizenship. While at
Pozieres and Ypres one Australian soldier
was putting up the fight of four, in Sydney
tw r o Australian workers were, as they have
painfully demonstrated, doing only the work
of one. As a result the soldier's reward must
be a miserable share in a poverty created by
those who would neither fight nor do a fair
day’s work to support the fighters.
Yet national organisation is still possible
in Australia if the lessons of the strike and
its failure are taken to heart. Indeed,
national organisation of some sort is not
merely desirable, but necessary if we are to
maintain our place as a free people. Imag-
ine a fight on our own soil against an in-
vader conducted under the existing condi-
tions. That Australia, facing a foreign
enemy, could defend herself if also attacked
in ’ the rear by those who ought to be fore-
most in the fight for her liberties would be
too much to expect. National organisation,
by which everyone would be forced to bear
his full share either at the front or at the
rear, could alone save us in the stress of a
war on our own shores. But the stress of
the coming peace is going to be almost as
great as that of any war, and the sooner
w r e recognise it and prepare for it the better.
That W'e might have sacrificed some conveni-
ence and comfort, as the strikers have forced
us to do, in the better cause of Kaiser-
smashing is plain enough. Australia’s extra-
punch might not have won the war, but it
would certainly have hastened the winning
of it; and now that the fighting is dragging
on at ruinous cost, every 7 pound of effort that
we failed to put into our blow comes back
to us as a thing to be paid for in
sweat and sorrow. Australia had the choice
of saving herself from paying that price by
putting out her whole strength either at
home or abroad. To have put it forth abroad
would have been to lessen the duration and
cost of the war; to have put it forth at
home would have been to have built up
reserves of wealth which would have tided
us over depression. We have done neither ; and
now we are faced with the necessity of trying
to remedy the fatal blunder. For that reason
national "organisation is as necessary as it
was in 1914. A Commonwealth card system
that leaves nobody out and permits of no
shirking is our prime necessity. In a word,
the load of idleness which this continent is
asked to carry is too heavy; and the law of
work, which is the law of life, must be
asserted in all its perspiring unpleasantness.
IT MUST BE ONE WAY OR THE
OTHER.
Experience is proclaiming in a loud voice
something which Australian Labor ought to
be listening to. It is this: “You cannot
I have it both 'ways!” If Labor thinks it
can, then it has learned nothing from the
past and less from the present, and the mills
of God will grind it to powder. The experi-
ence gained yesterday and to-day by Aus-
tralia is that the institution or movement or
whatever it be that is called Labor has for-
gotten what it was, does not know what it
is, and is groping uncertainly about to find
what it is going to be.
* * * *
What Labor cannot have both ways is
authority as a political party in the Democ-
racy to mould the life and future of the
nation, and the right to establish under the
protection of the State an industrial autoc-
racy claiming to possess ascendancy over the
body politic. It cannot to-day claim the
votes of the people at the ballot-box for the
support of Labor, grounded upon the asser-
tion that Labor stands for the extension of
democratic principle, for the fair deal all
round, for widening the x - eign of law by the
development of self-government to the point
at which every citizen shall become partici-
pant directly in making the law under which
he shall live —Labor cannot claim this one
day and on the next swing round and say to
the people: “This organisation of ours is
not going to be directed towards reaching a
certain goal through political effort; it is
going to use such industrial strength as it
has to show that law may be defied, self-
government through democratic institutions
turned into a jest, and trades-unions manip-
ulated for the purpose of strangling demo-
cratic principles and Parliaments.” Yet
this is what Labor has tried to do, and
has by that act emasculated the poli-
tical party it last called into being
at State and Federal elections. What
does that political party stand for to-day?'
If it stands for the strike the community has
been struggling with this last few T weeks,
then the platform on which it stood before
the electors was built of lies and sham. If
k does not-if the political Principles which
Labor stood for sire still in the outfit of the
party—then the diversion of trades-unionism
kfto this fantastic abuse of craft loyalty, this
exploitation of the organisations membership
and funds, has been a treacherous attach
upon those principles and upon the peop e
who supported them at the polls.
It is ail very well for Tudor to say in the
House of Representatives that Labor will
emerge from this disturbance stronger than
ever, as was the case after previous strug-
gles. Tudor knows, and so does every other
member except one or two feather-heads,
that the circumstances of those older con-
flicts from which Labor drew strength have
no resemblance to the current affray. Labor
grew strong because of the justice of its
case: because its appeal was to all men and
women: because it was working for demo-
cratic rights and the abolition of political
privilege. Can that be said now? Tudor
knows it cannot. The whole Labor party in
the Federal Parliament knows that no such
claim could be made, and that, instead o
gathering strength from the follies of Aug-
ust. Labor has been terribly weakened politi-
cally all over the Commonwealth. It is
.indeed just plain cowardice to tell Labor
that because it grew powerful at one stage
of its existence, it must grow more powerful
no matter what folly it commits. After the
shearer had run over Samson the giant was
ready for the scrap-heap. After the wreckers
have done with Labor there need not ot
necessity be more than a yell left. 1 hen 1 is
no magic in a name, and in a democracy
there can be no room for any who deny tlic
popular right to govern in the widest sense.
Recent elections in Australia have been a
warning to Labor. The strike has been
another warning—and perhaps a more em-
phatic oue. Australia has paid heawly tor
the experience that Labor ought to gam
from these happenings. And if it is proved
that trades-unionism is no longer reconcil-
able with the constructive work of a democ-
racy. then Labor will have to pay a still
heavier bill.
THE SUBMARINING INSECTARIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A reason able man would have thought that
war would have killed sectarianism as a real
battle takes the limelight off a sham-fight,
and that Gallipoli and Flanders would cover
up the Battle of the Boyne. But the poison-
plant flourishes still, no matter how battle-
scarred the fields of all the world. Here
and in England and Ireland are many bitter
sectaries whose hatred of the Irish is, com-
paratively, a kindly toleration of the Ger-
man. In Australian politics these people
are becoming more insolent than ever, using
excellent words such as patriotism, loyalty
and the best word of all. which is Australia;
and while their drooling mouths utter in-
sincerity, their poisoned spittle burns the
good out of everything it falls upon. Aus-
tralia has no room for their orange or their
green; and the fact that yellow, numerically
gtronger than green by three to one, is yet
always scared and fearful, only proves how
weak and cowardly sectarianism can be.
I am told here in Brisbane that certain
shops are to be boycotted by the extremists
because some of their directors are “Cath-
olics.” The meanness of the sectarian boy-
cott is measurable with the krtowledge that
the accursed t’other fellow is to be boycotted,
not from buying, but from selling ; for even
to the most pious or canting of sectaries
money has no smell. Therefore, with the
intention of destroying this rotten, imported
mental anarchy I have anticipated an Anti-
Sectarian Bill, which anticipation I hereby
present to any politician who has the cour-
age to use it. I believe it wants only the
courage of initiative; for the most violent
sectarians are hypocrites who deprecate the
base means by which they live; and even
these could not publicly vote against it,
although it carries their own abolition
THE PRESERVATION OP PUBLIC, PEACE ACT
1917.
An Act to enable the Governor-General {or the
Governor-in-Council of any State—whichever Govern-
ment has the courage of initiation] to make regula-
tions and orders for the safety of the Commonwealth
[or State] during the present State of War (and
after).
Be it enacted hy the King's - Most Excellent
Majesty, the Senate and the House of the Represen-
tatives of the Commonwealth of Australia [or the
Legislative Assembly and legislative Council of any
State] as follows:
1. This Act may be cited as the Anti-Sectarian or
Preservation of Public Peace Act 1917.
2. This Act shall continue in operation for the
period of the war and a year following the declara-
tion of peace unless previously re-enacted.
3. The Governor-General of the Commonwealth [or
the Governor-in-Council of any State] may make
regulations
(i) For securing the Public Peace of the Com-
monwealth [or State] and
tji) For conferring such powers and imposing such
duties as he thinks lit for securing - the public peace
and internal safety of the Commonwealth [or State]
upon the proper authorities of the Commonwealth
[or State] and in particular with a view to prevent
any person or persons attempting to divide the
people, especially at election times, by using the
false issue of sectarianism, or other Anti-National
means of such division, nr by printing or publishing
sectarian reports calculated to disturb the public
mind and create sectional disputes.
4. Whosoever shall speak, write, publish or in any
wise utter any statement as to the religious beliefs
of any citizen tending to injure him in his occupa-
tion or in his candidature for any public position,
or shall commit any act tending to discriminate
against him in his business, or use anv form of
boycott, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
5. Whosoever shall contravene or fail to complv
with any provision of any regulation or order made
m pursuance of this Act shall he guiltv of an offence
under this Act.
6. An offence against this Act may be prosecuted
either summarily or upon indictment.
7. The punishment for an offence against this \et
shall be as follows:
(a) If the offence is prosecuted summarily, a
fane not exceeding one hundred pounds or
lmpnsonment for a form not exceeding six
months or both.
(V., 1 1 The offence is prosecuted upon indi(+
mem. a fine of any amount, or imprison
mont for any term, or both, provide']
m any case penalties shall be not l ( , ss ,
the penalties provided for conviction' ""
summary prosecution.
With the spectacle of the tremendous
crime of Germany before ns. there is i
the knowledge that sectarianism for om!
years or more has been the most f n ,it"fn
cause, or excuse, for battle, murder
sudden death. If we destroy it out 0 f o
politics and business it will soon die out rf
our social life. No man can do greater »o I
to the cause of Australian nationhood than
to brand the sectarian as the criminal
really is—the worst traitor to Australian
progress, blackening the face of Australia',
ideals with his envy, malice, hatred anil
uncharitableness. I want to see him
behind the bars. 1,1,1
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Pearce and the Public Demand for
Damaged Goods.
(’om koxtki) with the awkward and horribly
expensive fact that many men are bein'-
returned so ill or broken-down as to qualify
for pensions without eve? having been a't
the Front. Defence Minister I'earce made
this explanation:—
To prevent tlie enlistment of unfit men a mou
rigid medical examination of all recruits wa<
insisted upon. Public opinion, however, had been
against the authorities in this connection, and the
pressure exerted by both the public and the pres*
had been in the direction of slackening the medical
examination of recruits.
All of which is characteristic wriggling and
evasion. So far as this paper, sit any rate
is concerned, it tried to protest again and
again that men were being passed who
would be merely a burden upon the army
and the country. If the Minister doesn't
know what happened to some of those pro-
tests, his minions do. And the Minister
is just as responsible as if he did know, for
it was his business to know. Apart from
that, what did happen was that the Depart-
ment issued certain instructions in order to
make voluntaryism look as if it were stand-
ing on its legs. The results have been
calamitous. Out of 100 men recently over-
hauled for the assessment of pension it was
revealed that 80 had never been near the
Front, and many were suffering from ail-
ments of long standing which had either not
been detected or were regarded as unim-
portant on enlistment. Eaeh man had cost
well over £2OO to equip and teed and haul
about. Some of them become a permanent
charge on the public purse. The direct
waste in this direction lias already been
great. The indirect waste has been enor-
mous. As a testimonial to the voluntary
system the proceedings are entitled to re-
ceive honorable mention from the historian.
It is suggested by Melbourne Age that '‘the
authorities should long ago have required all
recruits to make a sworn and signed declara-
tion of any ailments from which they had
previously suffered. Then in the event of
any future incapacity arising from a dis-
ability which was concealed at the time of
enlistment, the soldier could be compelled to
bear the results of his own deceit.” What a
beautiful arrangement! Under it thousands
of physically weak though high-spirited men
could have been admitted to the army with-
out the State being under any obligation to
them if they broke down in the process of
training or amid the rigors of the field on
account of developing a latent weakness. As
the poor devils came drifting back with
tuberculosis or varicose veins or ulcerated
stomachs or cardiac disturbances, Red Tape
would have rummaged in the card index and
produced irrefutable evidence of “deceit
and all would be well except for the wretched
victims. In this paper’s judgment no man
but a lit man should pass for service. But
once a man lias passed and been given a gum
it would be an act of almost inconceivable
meanness to treat disablement from the
rigors of service any less generously than
injury on the field of battle. As Peabce Inc
still to help win the war, The Bulletin
urges him as a man and a brother to get tin
medical regulations tightened up a bit, anc
in addition, to get a, better grip of
opinion.
« —
The One Big Union without a Boss.
The hopeless tangle into which Labor s apob
gists have now wound themselves js
clear by pronouncements of ‘TI.E.B. w “
Worker, the official organ of the P°M’ e '
party and chief backer of the strike. '
is the gist of the present situation
expounded to the defeated strikers:
It is our system of organisation that is at 8 !
it is our methods that need amendment. hi a
of supreme trial they do not bind us and they
nrrak us. nowfe
strike committees are necessary, but the P u .
with which thev are vested must he jealous!' ..
GUMSCRIBED. ' We trust too much to leat " '
when it is mass control that is wanted.
It is useless, it is unjust, to say: “" e ha' ,
sold! We have been betrayed! - ’ when > m li , t 0
burdened with terrible responsibilities, succi
the strain. n H \\E
Henceforth. NO EXECUTIVE SHO( LU w
POWER TO CALI. A STRIKE, OR DEULAKt
OFF. . se ]f.
Unionism must be democratic. It must > ,‘ aft
governing in the most literal sense. 11 11 1 , (~,
from the mass to the unit, not from me ,l ”’ g j ts
mass. The unit errs; the mass never dot's, o j #
as its own judge, and there is no one conu
impeach it. . orga n-
Get rid of the multiplicity of your Taion..
iso upon industrial lines; and then bend you
trial organisations towards the ideal °f . s to
Union. Reduce the authority of your Lxco
the margin of safety, and manage your 0 s of
and conduct your own campaigns by
direct votes and majority decisions. .
Exactly. Let us have the One Big
a union big enough to include not on .
wharf-lumpers and hu j s
Fuller and Commissioner Frasf.il
the direction is which the whole I.ttboi «
ment inevitably takes us; and the i,|KI * or
for Labor’s failures and mistakes l -
escape the conclusion, though he 1 .j, p
obscure it by talking in terms <> • ioB
and the Trades Hall. The One Big _j n
already exists and will continue to


spite of all sectional attempts to destroy it;
and the name of that union is the State.
Carry “H.E.B.’s” ideas to their logical con-
clusion and the definite open road out of
all our troubles is in sight. As political
factors the sectional unions must go, the
bosses of those unions must be shorn of
their power, and the voice of the people as
a whole, expressed by ballot on every im-
portant question, must rule. There you
have the perfectly simple and altogether
satisfactory arrangement for which Tiie
Bulletin has been fighting for years —the
supremacy of the State, abolition of party
and all sectional political forces, and the
direct rule of the people through the Bef-
erendum with Initiative. The workers of
the State are its whole population. If
there are idlers, it is the State’s business
to see that they cease to be idlers and take
their share of the national job. Let the
State be ruled by these workers, not. by
unions or leagues or the bosses of unions
or leagues. According to the h okicek the
unit errs ; the mass never does.” If Labor
will take those words as its guide and put
them into practice it can secure all its real
objectives almost at once. But the insane
talk about “class consciousness” and the
like must be tossed on the rubbish heap.
There can be no classes in the united State
any more than there are parties. Each
man’s bal|pt-paper is in such a State his
charter of citizenship; and the rule is not
by delegated authority nor by self-assertive-
ness and yell, but by tbe sober thought of a.
working people. Labor will get there; but
it may have some more hungry lessons to
teach itself first.
When Old Adam Collides with Law.
It was explained by the Judge presiding
over a murder trial in London the otner day
that there is no such thing as “unwritten
law,” and that matrimony gives to a husband
no proprietary rights over the body of bis
wife. The undisputed facts of the case were
simple. The wife of a young officer serving
in France became enamored of a foreigner.
’The husband urged her to sin no more. Sue
insisted on being sinful. The husband, dis-
covering that the other party was a notorious
white-slaver and was suspected of being a
spy, shot him dead and told tbe police what
he'had done, giving as reason an explanation
favorable to the woman. At the trial the
question was whether the accused had been
guilty of murder. The jury said “No, and
there was great applause. Thus the Court
found that there is an unwritten law and
that the allegation about proprietary rights
was without point. If the husband had shot
the wife because she bartered her body he
would obviously have done a foolish and
wicked thing, and might very rightly have
been held guilty of murder on account of a
mere trespass. To have held him guiltless
would be equivalent to regarding the blessed
state of matrimony as registration or a
title to chattel property. But tbe problem
for this particular husband was not whether
the woman was mistress of her body, to dis-
pose-of according to desire, but whether his
relationship created for him a moral obliga-
tion to save her from physical and moral
contamination. According to the theologian
it did, but only to the extent of prayerful
intervention. According to the law it did,
but not beyond tbe point of argumentative
remonstrance or a severing of bonds that
were no longer holy. According to the 01 din-
ary conceptions of human decency, when that
man shot his wife’s seducer like a rat in a
sty he discharged no obligation to the
woman, made no claim to property in her
flesh, but committed an act of retribu-
tion on a scoundrel for which it would be an
outrage on the name of Justice to punish
him. Where does the truth rest? It is no
good splitting hairs to find out. There is no
moral defence for murder. If a woman
yearns to be the concubine of a white-slat ei
or anyone else it is. strictly speaking, nei
business. But in the practical relationship
of the sexes personal affections come in to
turn logic and morals upside _ down the
master passions of the human mind to com-
plicate the rules and regulations of the
priest and the lawyer. And who, as society
is to-dav, would say that in thus summarily
executing a spy and procurer who had stolen
his wife from him. this young soldier did not
do what he had to do because of bis man-
hood ’ It is hardly likely that even the
judge who heard tbe case would. The issue
is Sne that will not stand arguing about
and probably never will, until the arma of
those joyous days when the social ordei
shall have mastered the difficult ?ob of . rt
justing ethical and legal standards to the
prevailing Adam and Eve.
_ -—« —
The Demons of the Air.
British military authorities continue to
combat the theory that this yd e xampled
war can be won in an unexampled manner
by aeroplanes. They can t go in command oi
aerial fleets; therefore they cannot v.arm t<
the notion of cutting the enemy °n
his supplies by a torce of vaiorpus young
sters An ultimate triumph achieved by a
FI vine Brigade of 100,000 free-and-easy
stripling* i'" not wfcnt the HeH-m.rri.ata
have been looking for. This is confessed m
all writings dictated by War Office opinion
Take a recent letter from the London
correspondent of Melbourne AGE .
Military officers will not admit that trench war-
Wt ion^^stalemat^on
mat a C fleet n of ™Sgttmn
tiem factories and joying ffiebridges acre's the
Son aircraft fee tot come up to
j£F\* s £ p
s?r'„ c »;/tbSi p ,r
nircraff’wherT enough of them
for heavy bombing purposes A d m suen
a business we can win shers”at
ing" characteristic of dei Lritnti
which Germany jeered can be made th
deciding characteristic— -(/the Alh< J
military critics in the world cannot alter
the state of things. We are up against
facts. That we are not pushing the Huns
out of France at a winning rate is one
great fact. .That they can be practically
starved for munitions, by the same means
that they can be cut off from means of
escape, is a greater fact. If we can’t beat
them that way we probably won't get them
to their knees at all. Certainly the theory
that they can’t hold out had better be aban-
doned. It has wrought harm to us in the past,
and can do us no good in the present. It was a
device of the enemy to prevent Britain from
making a supreme aerial effort, and a dull
censorship played right into the enemy’s
hands. Nobody knows better than the
Kaiser that the Avar can be won from the
clouds. He thought to settle the argument
Avith a fleet of gigantic gas-bags capable of
being Avorked by any old fool. He was right
about the decisive battlefield. He was only
w r rong about the instruments, and no less
the human instruments than the machines
they actuated. But that was natural
enough. Like the others, he derided the
British love of sport. It is for us to put
that characteristic to its full use. It is a
national feature in Avhich he cannot match
us. There is probably none other of much
service in war in Avhich he cannot do so.
.» •
Sydney Harbor Traffic.
Sydney Ferries, the eo. Avhich supplies the
connection between the nortyi and south sides
of Sydney Harbor, appealed lately to the
Government to appoint a Commission to
decide w 7 hether an increase of fares was
justified. The Commissioner, an account-
ant, answered in the affirmative. And now,
the fares having been put up, the northern
side of the Harbor is seething. The grava-
men of the charge against the co. and its
increased tariff is that F. N. Yarwood, the
Commissioner, wrongly decided that he must
take the capital as it stood and not consider
Avhether it was actually subscribed by share-
holders or not. Really far too much stress
is laid upon this so-called watering. What
is too often overlooked is that this operation,
though it may be grossly dishonest, may also
be entirely creditable. Many of the manu-
facturing concerns of Australia have started
Avith hardly any capital. The shareholders
-—the men who have actually worked the
business in many cases —ha* e almost starved
themselves in order to leave in the business
the utmost possible farthing. They have
gone without dividends for years and often
have drawn a bare living AA 7 age. Surely
those people, when presently they capitalise
the profits thus accumulated, are entitled to
do it without having bricks thrown at them.
Had they chosen they could have paid tliem-
seh'es the profit and issued new shares to
absorb the money. In that case there would
have been no stock-watering, and no bricks
Avould be thrown. Yet the other plan,
though producing exactly the same results,
is the simpler and surer of the two. As a
matter of fact the formal capital of the
Ferries ought not to be considered at all.
What the service ought to yield a fair
return upon is the \ r alue of the property
used in connection with the ferry business.
Then we come to the question of what is a
return. That depends upon the security.
If. in effect, a monopoly is conferred upon
the co.. or if the State undertakes at some
future time to buy it out, paying a fair value
for the entire equipment, then the people
may reasonably insist that the co. shall he
content with a return only a fraction over
Avhat the State could itself raise the capital
for. The only justification for a higher
rate is that the co. risks its capital. That
being so the present position is entirely
unsatisfactory. Nominally, at any rate, the
co. does risk losing some of its capital,
because it may. be hit by competition, or
wiped right out. Therefore it reasonably
asks for considerably more than the 4 or 44
per cent, at which the State can in ordinary
circumstances raise money. This means
that the people are paying extra fares to
cover a risk which is in their own hands,
and that is A 7 ery absurd. The right thing
to do is either for the State or a Trust con-
sisting of the interested municipalities to
take the services right ove- or for the Gov-
ernment to give the co. security 7 for a term
of years on condition (1) that it does not
charge more than enough to yield, say, 5 per
cent, upon the capital value of the equip-
ment necessary for the service; and (2) that
there is at least one representative of the
Government upon the Board. In any case
the State ought, of course, to haA 7 e the right
of purchase. There is an alternative, and
the present Government seems to favor it—
the granting to another co. of wharf facili-
ties, equal to those of the Sydney Fer-
ries. That, however. Avould be less economi-
cally sound, because there is no question
that already there is enough capital
in the business, and this country has no
capital to waste on the unnecessary. More-
over. avc already have quite enough traffic
in the Harbor, and especially in Sydney
Cove and it is not at all necessary to add
to the dangers of Harbor travelling in order
to secure a fair thing for Harbor passengers.
Sssh!
Gallons of ink have been used up in
describing the dangers of Billjim abroad
dangers not from bullet, but from loathsome
disease. Other gallons have been more gladly
snent upon the commonsense preventive and
curative measures adopted. And still other
gallons upon the excellence of the Y.l>.
camps in Australia. But. as Elmslie.
leader of the Opposition in the 4 ic. Assem-
bly, asked the other night, after a visit to
the’ Langwarrin camp, what sort of policy
is it to spend hundreds of thousands in
curing men of a disease, or patch-
ing them up, while we permit the seeds of
the disease to be freely sown? Said
Elmslie after his investigations:
We were informed by the medical officers that
there are about 4000 women walking about the
Streets of Melbourne spreading the disease. Records
arc kept of where the disease is caught, and there
are lists of hundreds of names of women. One
horse in Fitzrov has been responsible for the illness
f 37 soldiers, and no one knows how many civilians.
Two houses in Carlton have spread the contagion to
7 , ■< pliers. In a house m another street of the
city there are known to be five different women
suffering from the disease. More than 6000 soldiers
have gone through the camp, and only 700 of these
cases have been from overseas. More than ~>ooo coxes
have been caused in Melbourne. At present nothing
can be done.
Elmslie concluded with an appeal to Chief
Secretary Donald McLeod to take action,
and so widespread is the immediate cause of
the horror that McLeod need not go beyond
his own Department to begin using the
broom. Adela Pankhurst, in a sworn
declaration which Elmslie read to the
Assembly, had something to say on this sub-
ject. On the occasion of one of her recent
arrests there were three women in the police
van which conveyed her to the lock-up who
were suffering from venereal disease.
If the prisoners were close together there would
be every opportunity of communicating the disease.
These prisoners were sent to Pentiidge, and, in the
prison, utensils are used in common.
Now these prison vans and the prisons
themselves are under the administration of
McLeod as Chief Secretary. Yet there is
no sign of his rushing for a broom and some
antiseptic—nor has he made a noise like
a Lock hospital. The attitude of the whole
hopeless Peacock Ministry was indicated
by the Premier’s stodgy comment when
Adela Pankiiurst’s memorial was being
debated. Grievances, said he, could be dis-
cussed in a proper manner—but people could
not be allowed to take charge of the streets
and dominate Parliament! A personally-
conducted tour through a venereal ward
might benefit politicians of this type. Mean-
time, what about it? Billjim has a right
to know. Billjim’s mother, his sister, his
sweetheart, his country —all have a right to
know.
It is not much good for Frank Tudor and
his mates to bombard Hughes with the
dictionary on account of the use that is
being made of the War Precautions Act
until they have purged themselves of respon-
sibility for that calamitous measure. And
this they cannot do. Some of them were
members of the Government which framed
the Act. All of them were members of the
party which pushed it on to the Statute
Book. All they can complain about now is
that they put into the hands of Ministers a
weapon which turns out to be loaded with
explosive bullets instead of the duck-shot
they thought was in it. Such an explana-
tion would be a poor one even if it were
genuine. But The Bulletin does not
believe it is genuine; for under the Adminis-
tration of which Tudor and Higgs were
members the War Precautions Act was em-
ployed for purposes which make mockery of
the claim that they supposed it to be utilised
in connection with the war. The censorship
establishes this beyond argument; no sooner
had the Act been passed than the gag was
produced and the measure used as a Politi-
cal weapon— and Ministers knew it. What
was done then was no less grossly offensive
to democratic principles than anything that
has been done since. As a matter of cold
fact, the applications under the War Ire-
cautions Act for the deregistration of cer-
tain unions are, despite Tudor s protests to
the contrary, far more within the alleged
“original spirit” of that Act than were some
of the regulations and despotic commands
issued in the name of the Labor Government.
The only difference is that then the general
public was put under the extinguisher. To-
day it is the turn of the unions. And
Tudor, Higgs and the rest deserve it all for
their former cowardice. No matter who i\as
hurt, they allowed Hughes and Pearce to
do what they pleased.
“The Mad Hatter” : About ibis striking.
My idea is that the world would save a lot
of time if it could bring itself to proclaim a
three-weeks’ annual strike for every union
and help it to celebrate the event with bands,
banners and fireworks, instead of trying to
crush it with leading articles. In the days
when I had to scuffle for wages I often
longed to strike against the monotony ot
going home to the same wife and family,
and I would have given a lot of money (if
I’d had it) to down tools one morning, leave
mv job and taste the intoxication of march-
ing shoulder-to-shoulder behind banners
with other lunatics, while a hired band
blared and pounded heroically in the lead.
That others are like me I know from this
account of the carnival spirit which made
the earliest stages of the latest strike so
enjoyable: —
With all the outward and visible signs of gala-
day lightheartedness, Sydney's huge army of dis-
contented workers marched through the principal
thoroughfares to-dav, and made a demonstration ot
their solidarity in the big strike. Long before 2
o’clock, the time when the procession was to start
from Rawson-place, an enormous crowd had
assembled. It was the most cheerful crowd ever
seen under anv circumstances. Songs were sung by
groups, men tangoed in couples, and cake-walked,
and women joined freely in the fun.
Now instead of dancing pageants there are
crowds of beetle-browed men shouting that
they have been “sold.” Why? All because
society insisted upon them having a ‘ griev-
ance”' before they struck. They can’t go
back gracefully now without having their
“grievance” righted; and that makes all tins
unnecessary bother. If I can persuade the
superintendent to let me out, I’ll go in for
politics, and rob strikes of their uncertainty,
which is their terror, by making it unneces-
sary for men to skirmish up a rotten excuse
for doing what, after all. is as natural a
thing as Brother Bingiii’s walk-about or the
importer’s annual trip to the Cup or Kos-
ciusko.
“Exile” from a far country: —
Away from home one can get a better perspective
of public affairs. Australian town newspapers are
mostly made up of speeches, columns of drivel, yards
of commonplace, and miles of suggestions for bettei
government and more laws by little members of
Parliament. And of the making of laws there is no
end. and much platform gassing is a weariness of the
flesh. All the time the real business of Australia
and its States —the careful spending of its taxes—is
left to take care of itself.
Consider the budget debates and the budgets them-
selves; misleading and confusing to the expert
accountant, they must be simply incomprehensible to
the usual member of Parliament of low mentality
and high garrulity. Consequently millions of pounds
of estimates are passed on the voices without debate
or inquiry, by a Lire quorum of the men sworn to
serve the people. Loan bills are always rushed
through a thin House, usually without comment or
criticism, and nothing is said about how the inteiest
will be met or the chance of the investment of the
loan money paying. Here one can sit back and
think of the number of small untrained politicians
who handle their own meagre incomes in farthings
and broadcast the public taxes and borrowings by
millions, care free and irresponsible. Ts there a
remedy for this want of business attention to the
country’s expenditure? Has Democracy really failed
in this the most important of its duties —the raising
and spending of the people’s money ? The making of
laws ought not to be the chief or the sole objective
of the legislator. Laws seldom add more than a
mere iota to the sum of a nation’s happiness. But
how its income is spent on education, defence, pro-
tection and the creature comforts of its poor and sick
is a very real factor in the equation of a nation s
progress.
At a distance the financial position of the Common-
wealth and its component States does not look re-
assuring. In the same paper one reads that the N. S.
Wales Acting-Treasurer says he will limit this
financial year’s loans to £5,000,000, and that Holman
refers in London to the many problems in Australia
calling for adroit handling. Make no mistake the
problem needing special adroitness is how to avoid
a collapse of Australia’s entire economic structure.
Our debt, public and municipal, is close to
£600,000,000. with an interest bill payable by five
million people, more than half women and children,
of about £21,000,000 a year. With an almost
stationary population and production ditto we are
on the brink of a financial abyss. The Federal
Treasurer’s last financial statement at this distance
from home is merely one yawning deficit. Plenty of
new Civil servants, plenty of salary increases, plenty
of new laws and regulations and by-laws to make
work for more public offices and departments, and
not one business policy, not a single attempt to start
a new industry, no word of a Customs tariff framed
to force our people to feed and clothe themselves.
Look at the plight to-day of the countries that relied
on other countries to feed and clothe them! Are
we to allow Australia to slip jnto that false position?
A nation which cannot make its own suits, boots,
hats and groceries has no right to separate existence.
We want an entire change in our public men. Most
of the present leaders are too old and tired to lift
Australia out of her financial quagmire. That is a
task for young men, with enthusiasm and clarity of
vision concerning Australia’s future.
♦
Insurance cos. have been very patient with
copra consignors; but there is a time when
patience becomes a vice. If an inquiry were
made it w r ould almost certainly be found that
practically all the fires in copra-carriers at sea
and in port have been among bagged stuff
from island groups where the rainfall is
heavy and proper drying slow. On the other
hand, so far as this paper knows, not a single
fire has been traced to thoroughly dry copra.
That gives a hint as to what ought to be Rule
I for the carriage of the stuff. And so long
as there are Hun and other fire-bugs in the
world Rule II ought to be directed against
the repeated use of sacks. Bags are now
employed over and over again, until they
become thoroughly saturated with oil. and a
Hun incendiarist has to do scarcely more
than hum a hymn of hate in the neighbor-
hood to cause the whole thing to burst into
flame.
From an old Queensland Labor battler
Isn’t the howl against “introducing American
methods’’ somewhat overdone? After all, the proof
of the pudding is in the eating. When a democ-
racy afflicted with every' social and industrial
evil imaginable, as recent howlers infer, climbs
to such a position that it is practically
able to govern the destinies of the Powers
that are struggling for mastery in Europe
to-day, and incidentally holds such an important
place commercially and industrially, it seems
reasonable to suppose that the P.L.L. and I.W.W.
estimate of its general dreadfulness must be a trifle
awry.
No competent authority dreams of denying the
tremendous value of America’s supply of munitions,
foodstuffs, etc., to the Allies since the outbreak of
hostilities, and now that she has decided to come in
on the Allies’ side in the struggle, anyone who fol-
lows her manner of awakening must realise what an
enormous factor she must be in shaping the future
history of the world. Fabulous sums of money,
gigantic preparations, huge fleets for the ocean and
the air—all on a scale tremendous and awe-inspir-
ing! And American labor, the colossal factor that
should, if voluble demagogues were correct, seize its
chance to get level with the habitual despoiler,
utterly fails to arise and paralyse its country’s in-
dustries and ambitions, but declares its intention of
wading in and doing its best to assist Uncle Saji
to come out right on top.
America may have large-sized evils, and no com-
munity of over 100 million very miscellaneous
persons is likely to be without them; but it at least
has' methods which have produced a live, inventive
and energetic people, and a creed infinitely prefer-
able to that which teaches that the best way to
develop a rich continent is to work as little and
borrow as much as possible. For men who are
largely responsible for an ever-increasing tendency
to knock off work and paralyse everything, with the
coufntry involved in the largest and most epoch-
making war of all history—for such men to refer in
terms of contempt to the methods of the country
that is able and willing to do more than anyone else
to save their political ideals from extinction, indi-
cates a pitiful degree of swollen-headedness.
If “introducing American methods” means getting
a stranglehold on loafers and compelling them to
earn their living or do without it, the sooner jve
introduce them the better.
If “Australian methods” mean that every man who
endeavors to do a fair thing to the employer who
pays him is to be looked on as a scab and a
traitor, because he throws into bold relief the shirker
who deliberately loafs, wc have had enough of them
and their fruits already.
If “bad methods” cause a country to be filled with
a nation that can excel in the arts of peace, while
“good methods” cause an equally rich country to
remain in a state of depopulation and drowsy stag-
nation, hampered by petty bickerings and squab-
blings in time of war, the time appears ripe to post-
pone the application of “perfect” methods sine die,
and get a bit of a hustle on with the “bad”
methods.
“Perfect methods” apparently produce very im-
perfect results, and can be beaten out of sight by a
little hard graft and commonsense.
-
Another cartoonist’s view of it:—
The gist of Norman Lindsay's “Case Against
Labor” is that Labor has proved itself a political and
moral failure, and that it should therefore cry
peccavi and proceed to dig. stoke, shunt and lump
as heretofore, glad to hold on to its job. high wages,
short hours and hygienic conditions, only opening if s


The Farmers’ and
Settlers’ Co-operative
Insurance Company
of Australia Ltd.
A
Head Office:
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches in VICTORIA and SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
This is THE FARMERS’ INSURANCE COMPANY.
A co-operative company owned by farmers and controlled in their interests
by a management widely experienced in all branches of insurance.
ARE YOU A SHAREHOLDER?
Shareholding policy-holders in the Farmers 5 and Settlers 5 Co-operative
Insurance Co. of Australia Ltd., besides being assured of absolute
protection at lowest current rates, secure their insurance cit cost price,
because the profits from their business are available for distribution to
nobody else but themselves.
Become a Shareholding Policy-holder Now, and Participate in
the Next Distribution of Profits. Write to the Manager for Full Particulars.
mouth to bubble joy thai it b no longer on the
chain.
But has Labor , in Australia failed politically arid
morally? Politically it lias, for the time being;
but to confidently assert that it has failed morally is
to dogmatise. Labor, fundamentally, is reactionary,
and in its strikes and go-slow kickups is following
its,business of reacting—blindly, of course, and trip-
ping over itself on the way', but impelled by the
same old subconscious revolt against the divorce ot
politics from ethics.
“The Case Against Labor" is in reality a case
against a phase in the development of Democracy in
which the domination of the many by the few has
failed to completely justify’ itself., Hugheses,
Fullers, Willises, Rosas, Percy Brooefields and
the rest of ’em are, fortunately, ephemeral, and this
phase will pass, as will others. All the variations,
however, are subject to the principle of selection,
and the survival of the fittest is certain. From
them will arise the stable Democracy Norman
implies; but whether it will be dominated by Brains,
by quadruped cunning or be purely altruistic....
The Internal Sufferings of the Bear.
It may be true than Vox llindenburg has
not the men to follow up his advantages
against the Russian armies in the north. If
this is the case there is nothing in it for the
.lilies to grumble about. Pending further
developments it may be worth remembering
that the London “expert” who appears to be
most emphatic on flic subject was making
the same assertions about German man-
power when Roumania butted in. There
has. of course, been heavy German wastage
and concentration on the Western Front
since then, and the results of this may now
be paralysing German offiensiveness else-
where. But it is quite possible that \ox
llindenburg may be a wise old bird, to
whom an adventure into the heart of Russia
has no attractions at this time of year
that the German eyes are not turned east so
much as south and west; that the spectacle,
of Russia stewing in her own juice may,
from the German angle, be eminently satis-
factory. Somehow or other very few of the
major events in the war have proceeded
according to forecast, and in this particular
matter the essential question is not what
Von llindenburg may omit to do to Russia,
but what the Bear may succeed in doing to
himself. On this point large supplies of
confusing evidence are daily available, and
if anyone can make head or tail of it all. or
even extract a working theory as to where
the proletariat and the bourgeoisie and the
Cadets and the Sublets and the Maximalists
and all the numerous committees and confer-
ences and assorted mobs are in relation to
any particular subject, he may consider him-
self an exceptionally wise man. By the
arrest of Korniloff and the declaration of
a republic Kerensky has possibly done
something towards getting order out of
chaos. Or he may have started a fresh
crop of horrors that will come to harvest in
a week. While all this lias been going
on there has been a further eruption of
peace talk, more fighting in France, addi-
tional bombs deposited on John Bull.
another political upheaval at Pains, a vast
silence about the proceedings in Mesopo-
tamia. and the growth of a strong suspicion
that unless the Fusion wins the war before
Christmas it will have further opportunity
later on. The War Regulations Act can
in any eveiit be relied upon to prevent the
Kaiser getting particulars of the Fusion’s
preparations for knocking him out. The
secrets are being well kept. So are the
payable jobs.
By the beginning of the week the Trades
Hall in Sydney was cumbered with the rem-
n Tnts of a broken strike and wondering
Yvb'.it it was going to do with them. To go
on fiphting a losing engagement when it is
certain to be a loser is the final test of
tactic wl stupidity. If the N. S. Wales miners
have t fraction of the sense they think they
have I 'hey will get back to work without any
further* blither regarding the employment of
free lal K>r in the mines. Once they go back
this latwr will vanish like most of the hot
air thait had got into the miners’ heads.
The besG way to prevent it disappearing is
to contii tue arming the Government with
an unanswerable excuse for maintaining it.
Labor has everythig to gain by getting out
of the me? s it leaped into with loud yells of
delight, and after that it had better sit down
in a quiet place, take itself to pieces and
make a close examination of the details.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion ‘‘Grumpy
Her Majesty’s "You’re in Love
Lyceum • Triangle Plays
Palace .. . “Look Who’s Here’
Tivoli Mel Josh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mr. Manhattan ’
Royal “Outcast”
Kino’s “Grandad Rudd
Princess’s “Seven Days’ Leave”
Playhouse “The Shirker”
Tivoli Me Intosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe A <u.vmi’ia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melha Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
“Mr. Manhattan,” which tried its luck at
Melbourne Majesty’s last Saturday, is a suet-
pudding comedy, stuffed with farcical situa-
tions and served with thin sauce of songan-
dance. The sauce would seem thicker if the
co. could sing better, but the entertainment
would still be stodgy. “Mr. Manhattan” is
full of plot and void of wit- The dialogue
lias no sparkle, and its one attempt at riski-
ness is more than merely naughty in double
entendre. Louis Kimball, as the name
character, is the conventional frivolous
young man of wealth who has undertaken
to earn the hand of his artless girl (Ethel
Cadman) by abandoning the giddy life. C.
11. Workman is valet to the above, and. after
masquerading as his master on the Conti-
nong. has let his master’s flat in London to
the awful husband of the very lady (Carrie
Moore) to whom he lent some stolen notes
while he was travelling under false pre-
tences. Hence a sea of complications where-
in everybody flounders until the explanations
fall due. All would have been over at a
comparatively early hour on Saturday but
for the facility with which encores were
obtained. . Songs of piffle xvere talked to
tinkling musical accompainments, and
although the judicious hoped that every verse
would be the singer’s last, a couple of coughs
from the amphitheatre would suffice to keep
the interminable ditty going. So it was near
11 p.m. before the “floral tributes” burst
upon the scene.
Kimball acts with sprightliness aifs nice
discretion, but in a singing tournament open
to all creation he would be put on the same
mark as a tomtit. Billy Hearne. who gets
the most taking number in the piece, is
tuneful in only a very small way. Stigant and
Fulbrook are innocent of witching melody;
but the former is fairly funny as an extrava-
gant caricature in obsolete side whiskers,
whilst the latter is never funny at all.
Workman, with nothing in particular to
sing, is an almost dismal failure in the bust-
ling broad-comedy part, whilst Maggie Dick-
inson’s conception of a gay adventuress is a
rolling-eyed danseuse who spreads her net
tragically. Maggie’s sense of art is getting
lost in a tangle of affectations. Carrie
Moore, plump and matronly, is also given
that way. Her principal vocal effort is a
conflict of tumult with huge Oliver Peacock,
an alleged operatic artist whose comedy
touch is a relic of the stone-age. Ethel Cad-
man and others are of less account in this
strange company than a little lot of chorus
girls. They chant two or three quaint
parodies of ragtime conversation songs. The
first person to strike this new reef of humor
is a taxi-driver who sings “I Want My
Money,” and the girls work it to better effect
with their “We Want Our Dinner.” These
brief items don’t amount to an ample apology
for all that is dullest in the show, but they
are extenuating circumstances.
* * $ *
About the Royal Art Society’s annual
show in Sydney :
The most interesting example at present on offer
in the Education Galleries in Loftus-street is a
picture-puzzle by Grace C. Smith. This is titled
“White Leghorns,” and the public will simply have
to take the artist’s word for it. It might be a
bevy’ of dancing girls, clothes hanging on the line,
hydrangeas in bloom, or anything else. Though the
artist insists that they are White Leghorns, she
may not be a good judge of poultry. Another of her
cubical efforts is happily titled “Any Street Corner,”
and I believe her. Lister-Lister’s “The Wind-
Swept Marsh Lands,” which can be had for 300
guineas (no reduction on taking a quantity),
is an honest and pleasing piece of work. The
suggestion of wind is convincingly conveyed, and
altogether the impressive work is worth 729 golden
splendors of the bush. A panel of miniatures by
Gladys Layeock shows a remarkable increase in
power. The best is the exquisite “Mile Papillon,”
the daintiest of Columbines, £l5 15s. for four
square inches of permanent beauty, a gift that the
Gallery Trustees overlooked for some fortunate
private buyer to pick up. In her other exhibits
there is ample evidence that this is not a mere
fortuitous hit.
J. Muir Auld does better than he has ever done
before. His big picture, “In Times of Peace,”
owes its composition to George Lambert's “Hobday
in Essex.” with a dog instead of a pony, but
lacks Lambert’s brilliant and vigorous brush-work.
The figures are well posed, except the child on the
left who is obviouslv resting her weight on the
wrong leg, the artist thus destroying, while
attempting to achieve, the effect of movement. The
dog, too, does not join on to the rest of the
group. But its cardinal fault is the smoothness of
the surface in so big a picture. Auld needs a
larger size in brushes. His smaller work, “The
Broken Vase,” though too obviously a posed, and
therefore rather dead, subject, is a much more satis-
iactory achievement. The sense of interior is
admirably suggested: the color harmony is delight-
ful, and nothing is out of key. Its purchase by the
Gallerv Trustees is a judicious acknowledgment of
Auld’s improvement. Two of his little landscapes (Nos.
1 and 4) are also sincere and satisfying. The “Nymph
of the Mountains,” by Gordon L. Trindell, is mere-
tricious. The nude is painted as neatly as if it
were a miniature, or meant for a decoration on a
chocolate box. The pose and the skin-tints are
depressingly conventional. James H. Jackson hasn’t
succeeded in improving upon his excellent work.
He, of all exhibitors at the show, knows best bow
to handle his brush with decision, directness and
power. He seldom fumbles. A little landscape
(No. 13) is thoroughly convincing; and there is
admirable work (and behind it a feeling that the
artist knows what he is doing) in his figuie and
portrait studies. “Alma” is vivid and alive. The
war will ruin .1. S. Watkins if he goes on painting
chromes like “The Landing,” which can be had for
500 guineas. It is a painful thought that our men
fought and died in order to allow J. S. Watkins to
reduce their heroism to bathos. A. Dattilo Rubbo’s
portraits won’t increase his reputation. Mary M.
Edwards’s picture-story is weak fumbling. A.
Marriott Woodhouse provides f.a.q. stuff, with a
leaning tower of the Daily Telegraph ; and Alfred
Coffey’s “Smoke Effect” is even more niggling and
pretty-pretty than his “Three Sisters.”
In water-colors there is clever work by J. A.
Bennett and Chas. E. S. Tindall, whose transport
picture is. however, quite uninteresting. Two works
with the Hilder influence behind them are shown
by J. W. Tristram and W. M. Whitney. In pastels
Alay M. Edwards has a fine portrait (No. 250) and
some polychromatic mistakes, and Alfred Coffey
a fine “Study of a Head,” though the trustees have
chosen his less distinguished “Serious Thoughts” for
purchase.
“Grumpy” will cease to grunt and his
tantrums be at rest to-morrow week: after
which patrons of Sydney Criterion will see
Cyril Maude as something not quite so
octogenarian.
The “Look Who’s Here” company at
Sydney Palace is changing its programme
so often that "Billy” and the box-office are
getting dizzy.
"You’re In Love,” with Maude Fane sleep-
walking along the boom of the excursion
steamer High Hope, is having a smooth
passage at Her Majesty’s. Sydney. It is a
sweetly melodious, whirling show, which
pushes ragtime into the background, and the
specialty dances are even more frequent than
usual. Fair Madge Elliott and the spirited
Sydney brunette who pirouettes as La Sheila
are bracketed first. .
“YOU’RE IN LOVE.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Maude Fane as Georg tana and William
Greene as Hobby Douglas.
Sydney Tivoli is feeling much better. The
improvement is principally due to Ruth
Budd, a winsome little trapezist with a
Buster Brown crop of hair who sings an
ordinary little song or tw’o on her feet at
stage level, manages a singing change in
view of the audience, and is presently a
white, chattering figure swinging gailv from
Roman rings slung from the flies. ‘ Ruth
swings far out like the “maiden fair” who
tried to stop Curfew’ and blight the Karlv
Closing movement; and when she is tired
of using her hands she hangs by her teeth
All this w’ithout the safe old circus net
Reynolds and White mix tfiek cycling
comedy, dancing and violin-playing that could
be listened to by any critic. The lady part-
ner's striking good looks help the turn. The
Camille Trio of comedy acrobats work the
horizontal bars cleverly at top speed; Miss
Lilyian and Martha Boggs have a well-
varied dance turn that is smartly costumed
several times over; and singer Amy Murphv
is present at the piano.
At Sydney Lyceum, William Desmond, in
“Time Locks and Diamonds” (Triangle).
“You’re in Love,” at
Sydney Majesty's.
Field Fisher as Percy
Pinklove, bo’s’n of
the High Hope.
show’s how easy it
is (iu the movies)
to get away with
thousands of dol-
lars’ worth of
jewels. He’s a good
sort, though, and
there’s a sigh of
relief when his
crooked ways are
made straight.
There is an appeal
to the heart of the
six o’clocker in
“Youth” at the
same address. This
film shows Carlyle
Blackwell and June
Elvidg% entering
into a life partner-
ship after an
eventful ro-manee
in Tennessee. Paul-
ine Frederick pul-
sates through five
acts of emotion at
the II ay m a rket.
Globe and Majes-
tic. Belle Stilliter
—has she or has she not a touch of the tar-
brush? Of course she hasn’t, having been
stolen as a chee-ild, and the screen at the
Crystal Palace tells all about it. At Hoyt’s
Olga Petrova plays Eve in a Garden-of-
Eden setting, under the illuminating title of
“The Soul of a Magdalene.” “The Stolen
Treaty” is at the Empress, in company with
the country boy who came to town. None
so slow is Hezekiah. and the Fox people
give him a great run for his boss's money.
Bessie Love cracks her whip at the Lyric
and the elephant and the tiger go through
their antics until Thursday, when the widow
Alice Brady turns the menagerie adrift.
Classic drama has so far asserted itself at
Melbourne King’s that further revivals are
promised in the period beyond the imminent
deadly Show Week. Shakspeare’s condensed
story of the last hours of Julius and the war
resulting from his assassination has got Mel-
bourne interested. The air is full of quota-
tions, and mortal men do now by Brutus
swear when that the even tenor of their
wonted way by strange mischance is turned
awry T . Moreover, the present honorable per-
formance of great Shak.’s immortal tragedy,
smoothed by custom and charged with high
endeavor, doth spur the souls of yet aspiring
citizens to rise and mutiny against the
thralldom which the drama’s baser forms
would fain on them impose. Till Friday
night the ghost of Caesar walks, and then
comes “Gran’dad Rudd.” Dad, Mum, Dave
a i d .Toe are 20 years older in this product
of native industry than they were in “Our
Selection.” and the management assures the
public that the play is as joyous as sunshine
on a field of golden grain. They wouldn't
dare to say that about Julius Caesar. any-
how.
$ * *
Miriam, at Melbourne Royal, continues to
found her fortune on 40s. compensation re-
ceived for damage to her hat. Miriam’s luck
was in when the nice kind gentleman
squirted soda-water on her red roof and
called her out of the street to receive solace
for the indignity. It was a red-feather day
in her misspent life. Her landlady had
turned her adrift with only twopence to
curse herself with, and the author felt that
the poor girl couldn’t fall itiuck lower, so he
caused her to fall upwards in response to a
voice from the window. From that time
forward Miriam’s luck never went back on
her. The long arm of coincidence was ever
outstretched to aid the erring one. When
Geoffrey's undecided jilt blew into his apart-
ments. to see whether she had quite broken
his heart, he might perchance have made
another appointment with the hesitating
lady. But it happened that Miriam also
came along and saved the situation. Valen-
tine retreated hastily, and Geoffrey's lapse
was delayed. Again, when Valentine had
practically’ got the young man fixed for
elopement to Buenos Ayres next morning,
who should drop in unexpectedly but Miriam-
She arrived iu spangles and fine chiffons to
say that she felt like a dog who has lost
his master; whereupon Valentine upbraided
herself as a cat who had strayed from her
husband, and quietly’ renounced the Buenos
Ayres expedition in favor of Miriam. The


'
Ir,
-
I
demonstrates the advantages of l.< glth gained by drinking pure Gin, and
diows” conelusivelv the reason for the enormous increase in the consumption of
f, mraK Rritish Spirit. which is specially recommended by the medical
SeiS w jl ihoS “««lng from rheumatism, Mdnay complaint. and
kindred ailments.
distinctly demand
‘OILBEY’S”
TUCKER & CO.
-Refuse Substitutes.
. Sole Agents for N.S.W.
PEAPES&C?TO
A Light, Pliable Panama
Good Panamas are very scarce. Men who
want the genuine article —the real South
American straw, sun-bleached, even-plaited,
and perfectly pliable, will do well to send
early orders" for No. H7B, our light-weight,
folding Panama, one of the very best values
available to-day. It is a hat that will keep
its color well and bear cleaning. Brims
vary from 2-1 to 3 inches.
The price is 27/6.
We pay postage. Please state size.
•
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street, Sydney.
Panama H7B
luck of it—the blind, theatrical luck of it!
Under the circs. Waldron is hardly to be
blamed for seraphicising his impropriety.
Considered in conjunction with his super-
natural sweetness and his tailoring he
appears very like a divine dispensation on
behalf of Miriam. He was sent into the
world to teach her the sacredness of the
marriage service, in order that she, poor waif
and stray, might do as much for A r alentine.
* * * „
Of the two ladies who go through these
trying encounters without giving the least
suspicion of the jealousy that feminine flesh
is heir to, Miss Beryl Bryant has a harder
part to play than Miss Macdonell, the
alleged “Outcast” of the piece. A young
actress in her novitiate, as Miss Bryant is.
might have been crushed by her burden of
improbability; but the bright Australian girl
maintains a false position gracefully and
makes a neat flying exit. Her character
repels the sympathies of the audience, but
her pretty self shows much promise, and her
evidence of inexperience has all the charm of
youth.
** * *
“Jean Sibi’s” note on the Lindsays’ show
in Melbourne:—
In his exhibition of water-colors at the Fine Art
Society’s rooms in Alfred Place, Norman Lindsay
shows that he has little time for the modern world of
cinemas and cabs, brick villas and belltoppers. He
takes a tour of the past, peers into Babylon and the
haunts of Villon, sneaks back into the Greece of
fauns and satyrs, and stumbles into strange mediaeval
gardens with the fixed resolve of escaping for a time
this tedious age of blood and iron. It is superfluous
to mention that he makes an amazing display, flour-
ishing his fancies in sun-kissed color, working his
pagpn world, into gorgeous patterns, and all the time
expressing his worship for Woman in a series of
gallant salutes. The pictures are crammed with
Norman Lindsay nymphs who smile with wicked
eyes upon you or lie prone in the languour of spent
emotions and have their demoralising charms re-
vealed by a man who knows every dimple by heart.
Norman Lindsay has a whole room to himself, and it
is sufficient to say that every Puritan should be sen-
tenced to a month “therein for the good of his soul.
Brother Lionel accompanies Norman into the back-
wash of history, and reports his discoveries in ele-
gant aquatints. He also contributes some good
etchings of Melbourne scenes and four Spanish plates
of arresting quality. Percy Lindsay is humbled into
third place by his brothers’ artistic accomplishment.
Yet his landscapes are solidly painted, even if he
has not put his imagination to full use. About the
best is “The Valley,” which would be a considerable
achievement if a little more atmosphere could be
detected.
At Melbourne Princess’s, it goes without
saying, “Seven Days’ Leave” will be con-
tinued over Show Week. Duke’s son and
cook’s son will still sit down together in
larab-and-lionlike amity, and the vicar’s
daughter will invariably fix her choice on
the offspring of the cook, not unmindful of
the fact that the old woman has come into
a legacy of £20,000.
■v * * *
The Playhouse, Melbourne, which has its
being on the Yarra-bank by Prince’s Bridge,
will reopen on Saturday, with William Cos-
grove in the chair. Cosgrove announces
“The Shirker,” a farcical comedy warranted
to wound the feelings of Pankhurst peace-
makers or profiteers. Prices are Bs., 25., Is.,
and the dear ladies are specially invited.
-!' * * *
At Melbourne Tivoli J. C. Mack, assisted
by a co. of one youth and sundry maidens,
has a good innings as a dame in a com-
pressed panto., but fails to prevent his humor
running out. The period allotted for his
ungainly trifle calls for more gags than an
ordinary memory can hold. Kelly and Drake
appear in a songandance turn which has
“JULIUS CESAR," AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
George Brgoul as
R rutus. offer a
litile affair with
Cwsar.
[?] Maclaren as
Murcus Antonius.
u ngry over C[?]sar's
death.
not yet removed the stains of travel, as it
were. Another newcomer, June Addell, gives
an imitation of Daisy Jerome and Nella Webb
which are more successful than her copies
of herself. The Sheldons somersault cleverly
into the programme, where Harry Roxbury
and Alice Bennetto are making their small
talk smaller than ever. The Follies have
also swung in with the red head of Thelma
Raye flaming in the van. The party is not
so numerous as before, but it manages to
fill in 45 minutes—with the help of a de-
praved kind of jest when the stock of clean
comedy fades out.
* H: $ s':
“Whoso is Without Sin,” with Hilda
Moore in front, is making the pace for Emmy
Wehlen in “The Duchess of Doubt” at
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week. The first
film is a robustious melodrama wherein a
libertine and a parson struggle for a Soul
and the lOst. of loveliness in which it is hid.
The parson wins on points, but there are
five or six slashing rounds decorated with
brilliant footwork ere the roue throws in his
serviette. “The Duchess of Doubt” is a
Metro subject which vividly inquires whether
a social grub can ■■■ me a butterfly. Pretty
and vivacious WeHen answers the
question with an empi. ■ r ., utfirmative.
"JULIUS CESAR,” AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Margaret Sutcliffe as
Portia, anxious re-
garding Brutus.
Souper as Casar,
making up his mind
to he strong.
Marie Tempest had a reception at
Adelaide Royal; but it is strange that her
own sense of humor did not prevent her
opening in the part of Kitty. The whole
idea is the triumph of irresistible girlhood
over a widow; and where the widow is obvi-
ously the younger of the two the point is
lost. She is now moving on to “Penelope”
i and other plays which give her a truer stand-
point. Graham Browne is another master
of his craft, and Sydney Stirling, as usual,
ranks level with any star he may be support-
ing. At the Tivoli Ida Gresham has had
a big chance as a Highway Queen, and Fitz-
herbert for once deserted the part of villain
to give a clever character sketch. Cappelli
and most of the old Gonsalez Co. are singing
at the King's, where they wisely give acts
from separate operas to build up an attrac-
tive evening. Balboni, at the Queen’s, suf-
fered inevitably by the competition. Adel-
aide’s own contralto, Clara Serena, had a
heavily-patronised evening in the Queen’s,
too. At the Majestic, the three Paulastos
have some work that is funny as well as aero-
batic, and Vaude and Yerne are patter-mer-
chants who always seem to have something
fresh to sell. The various pictures find
scenes from the Show —the first Adelaide has
had for three years—go as well as anything.
The fascination of seeing Dad and Mum and
Joe on the screen outrivals even the appeal
of American actresses.
* * * *
And still another of them :
The Vic. Art Association people are holding their
annual drawing-room at Melbourne Athenaeum, and
they only need afternoon-tea and cream-puffs to com-
plete the decorous effect. None offends the strict
canons of the National Gallery, excepting the extra-
ordinary James Jackson, of Sydney, whose colorful
impressionism and precipitate style are a defiance of
Melbourne tradition. One might also excommunicate
another Harborsider, Norman Carter, whose refusal
to see Potts Point as a chromolithograph deserves
the severest censure of the Argos. Thank Heaven,
one is saved from the decadent influence of such
rebels by the correct and saintly perfection of A.
Colquhoun and other Baptists of the brush! Colqu-
hoi'ii hangs a portrait of an Anzac which is such a
perfect discourse on the official method that it might
1, ■ called an unilluminated address. A. MeClin-
tock, who arranges earth, air, trees and sky into
seemly compositions, also presents an Anzac larger
than life and painted with a prodigality of detail
which reduces the effort to the level of mapping.
Clewin Harcourt is another artist who regards
human beings like charts and puts down their geogra-
phy with unwearying zeal. His “Lady in Black” is
an excellent example of his soulless science. One
gets more imagination and good painting in Harry
B. Harrison’s portrait of Miss Hurry. It is a fresh,
harmonious study without any of the signs of low
visibility observable in murkier performances near
by. Norman Macgeorge does an “Amber Evening”
in a large canvas: but, despite its nice color, the
achievement is rather suggestive of holding a magic-
lantern up to Nature. Fred McCubbin maintains the
feathery greenishness of his scenery with all the
pride of its inventor, whilst son Louis dips into pa’s
palette to mention a cold morning in a non-com-
mittal manner. W. B. Mclnnes shows that he sees
Australia truly, and has the art to realise its lumin-
ous afternoons. His two big landscapes are like
poems in delicate undertones. Miss Florence Rod-
way heads the pastel section with a Columbine, and
Miss Oumbrae Stewart is runner-up with a “Jeune
Femme” which permits a survey of the lady’s dorsal
contours. In etchings there are three prints from
the faithful needle of Shirlow.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“G.D.M.”: Met a celebrity at dinner in
’Frisco (the people here bate to hear their
cobble-stone city called that), no less a per-
son than C. I*. Greene, the author who
founded .1. C. Williamson’s fortune by writ-
ing for him especially “Struck Oil” and
“The Chinese Question.” He told me of the
struggles and troubles of James Cassius W.
in California for two years, when he was a
real strolling player, like those in Oliver
Goldsmith’s “Vicar of Wakefield,” actually
walking from town to town. Which may be
slightly exaggerated, as the recollections of
the old are ever apt to be.
“Norbell”: Talking about quick studies,
Marie Tempest isn’t. She couldn’t swallow
her part in “A Pair of Silk Stockings” in
time for its Brisbane production, advertised
weeks ahead, so the hosiery was taken off
the line. By the way, the conscientious
Marie arrives very early at the theatre each
night, and when she’s made-up and ready for
action she plays patience with herself in her
dressing-room to soothe her artistic nerves.
“M.P.A.”: JuSt-dead showman Birch con-
trolled the Thedlre Royal at Rockhampton
(Q.) for many years, and on one occasion
was staggered to receive from a troup of
barnstormers a season’s rent in advance.
The show was so dreadful that a very sore
public vowed vengeance if the co. appeared
a second time. The threat was so earnest
that Birch tried to get the stage-struck
crowd to close; but as it wouldn’t, he erected
wire-netting across the proscenium. Sure
enough when the house opened next night
the public arrived with large supplies of
ammunition, and only Birch’s protection
saved the ranters from an untimely end.
“Motley”: Bob Taylor, circus man, died
last week in Castlemaine (Vic.), 84. I
think he was the old man of the profession.
Bob was converted to Methodism some years
ago, and took to preaching, and I can testify
that his sermons were good. He used to
exhort circus hands in the dressing-tents,
and even the lion-tamer listened with
respect. Nobody could beat Taylor in his
juggling act on the running globe. He was
popular as the Beadle’s son in “Dick Tur-
pin”—“Ring the Bell. Sammy!” “All Right,
Daddy”-—despite the fact that he would not
part with his foot-long billygoat beard. In
his time he was associated with the Austra-
lian circuses of Ashton, Bird, Burton,
Cousins, Hayes, Hyland. Lewis, Gardiner,
Malcom. Noble, Matthews, Rowe, St. Leon
and Walhalla.
Circus-man Burton, long the partner of
just-dead Robert Taylor, died in Melbourne
in the first year of the present century.
“Fax”: Bailey and Grant advertise that
“Julius Caesar” had not been staged in Mel-
bourne for 25 years before they gave it this
chance. They might have added another
three. Geo. C. Miln produced it at the
Opera House in April, 1889. Greenaway
was young Octavius Caesar then; Nat
Douglas took the part of Cassius, which
Greenaway now plays so well. Miln
reckoned Douglas the best of many Cassiuses
he had had, but he wasn’t in the same class
as Greenaway. Jimmy Catheart was the
Brutus —intensely stagey compared with
Bryant, the present exponent of him who
gave Caesar the unkindest cut of all. Miln,
of course, was Antony. No “star” actor
with reasonable pretensions to take that job
can forego the opportunity to come and
bury Caesar. He was the very antithesis of
lan Maclaren—a thickset fellow, with
powerful neck and shoulders, who had been
used, in his pulpit days, to working on the
feelings of the congregation with a fine,
massive voice. He got every possible cheap
effect of oratory out of Marc’s oration, but
he wasn’t the sort of man whom Brutus and
Cassius would have allowed to borrow the
ears of the Roman populace on that par
ticular occasion. Maclaren has more the
appearance of a speaker who wouldnt be
likely to set the crowd shrieking for ven-
geance on Caesar’s butchers.
An Australian who met Mrs. Brown
Potter in England recently mentions that
her red, red hair is now white as snow;
it is short, and stands out round a thin but
still beautiful face. She favors a bizarre
oriental rig-out, and wears a shawl like an
Indian woman’s sari draped over her head
and shoulders in place of a hat. She lives
in a riverside village and is practically a
recluse, her principal visitors being Oriental
priests and sages.
“Silas”: When George Miln played
“Julius Caesar” at Melbourne Opera House,
the actor who impersonated Caesar on the
opening night had a fearful cold, and de-
clared among other things: “Nor heaben
nor eart hab beed ad bease do-nighd.” The
trouble increased, and Caesar’s last words
were: “Ed du Brude? Den ball Caedar.’
One critic complimented Miln on “a most
convincing performance of ‘Julius Sneezer.’ ”
(Continued on page 26.)
Sydney Daily Telegraph (17/9/T7)
gives the grand old party system another
testimonial. Explaining the “uncanny
solidarity” of the Phewsion, it says that
the Government usurps the authority of
Parliament in “regulation after regulation”
issued under the War Precautions Act, the
party accepting the conditions “with ex-
emplary docility”:—
The helpless Opposition bloc gazes on the work,
protests, threatens, obstructs, grows furious—all that
happens is that more war-precaution regulations
issue. The Government does not do this to defy
the Opposition. It just ignores the Opposition.
A party knocked to pieces, like the Labor party has
been, cannot expect sympathy from the Government.
And the disfranchisement of the constitu-
encies that had the audacity to return repre-
sentatives not keen on Phevvs doesn’t matter.
Edward Augustus Petherick deserves a
salute on passing out, for he was one of the
first to compile accurate information of
the printed matter relating to Australia.
Born in Somerset (Eng.) on March 6, 1847,
he came to Australia when a youngster, and
entered George Robertson’s bookshop some-
where in the ’(>o’s. He made good there and
was sent to London as buyer in 1870. After
17 years in that job he opened business on
his own account as bookseller’s agent. It
was he who established the first of the popu-
lar “colonial libraries” of well-known Eng-
lish and foreign authors. Meanwhile
he had been collecting Anstraliana, and
had published the first part of his
big “Bibliography of Australian Litera-
ture” in his own booksellers’ circular,
“The Torch.” The rest of it renlains in
manuscript. Many of his books are unique,
and the Commonwealth did well to acquire
the whole collection some years ago. It had
to take Petherick with his books, so a posi-
tion was made, for him, that of Common-
wealth Archivist. Towards the end he felt
that his life had been a failure as his work,
the Bibliography of Australia, had no chance
of being printed.
“G. Arden Hill”: “Rope Boy” (B.
13/9/T7) says he doesn’t know why the coal-
miners ceased work. I will tell him. They
came out because they felt that it was up to
them, as triumphant, militant unionists who
had downed Hughes a few months previously,
to step in and down Fuller. They had no
grievance and suffered only from swelled
head. But, thank Heaven, a swelled head
shrivels in time, whether it's on the indivi-
dual or the mass. “Rope Boy” states that
the miners work under the card system, inas-
much as they token their skips and are paid
according to the tonnage that comes to the
surface. But note the difference. Coal-
miners are contract workers who are paid
by actual results. In the railway shops,
where the cards have been introduced, the
men are paid a fixed daily wage. One of
the objects of the card system is to eliminate
shirkers and incompetents, and no fair-
minded man will cavil at that. A conscien-
tious worker who can and will do a fair thing
and come near the mark has nothing to fear
from the cards. In the coal-mines the mark
itself must be attained. In other words, the
contract system in the mines is more meticu-
lous and exacting than the card system in
the railway shops which the miners are help-
ing the railway men to resist. Yet. as “Rope
Boy” says, if you suggested abolishing the
far more severe system in the coal-mines
there would be an insurrection. Which shows
what asses the coal-miners allowed their
blatherskiting “leaders” to make of them.
In Victoria methods of pre-election for
Parliamentary candidates are taking a turn
for the better now that preferential voting
is well established. A gathering of string-
pullers lately met to decide between three
Liberal candidates for Jika Jika, and the
outfit came up out of the cellar at the close
of the proceedings to tell the press that they
had chosen tivo candidates.
THE SHADY RIVAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How doleful is that lover’s case
So circumstanced that ever he
Must dearly love a pretty face
Which with a pretty figure goes
As round and tender as a rose,
Vet finds the darling girl to be
Enamored of another blade
Who is the shadow of a shade!
The dear Lucille will give a smile
To hold me to her beck and nod.
But this is only naughty guile—
I’m needful, as the maiden knows.
To take her to the picture-shows,
For which she has a passion odd.
One hero is the moving factor — 1
She’s mad about a picture actor.
I take her many times to see
The soggy chap whose charms evoke
Her never-ending rhapsody,
Which fills me with a burning hate,
A lust for blood I cannot sate.
How sad my’ lot, a solid bloke
Whose quality she ne’er descries,
For there’s a film before her eyes 1
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


LADIES! Your Complexion is Part of Your Attire.
A PEKFECTLY STYEISH ATTIRE FAEES SHORT OF ITS EFFECT
if your skin is not in harmony.
EVERY WOMAN can BE COMELY by attention to those little details,
which no one can afford to despise.
ohlY
S»-... W
inter s
f'Sn
1
|c»t
H
TOILET PREPARATIONS WILL HELP YOU.
They have proved the greatest friend to womankind.
Powder (3 tints). New Pare Cream (2 eolors),
Pakshmi Cream and I.otion. Soap. Hair Foods (Oily
and jSon-Oily), Carmine, I>ry Shampoo, and Dental
Cream.
Ask for them at The Civil Service, Washington H.
Soul’s, Passetter’s, McCatliie’s. David Jones’, Hor-
derns’, XV. T. Waters’, Farmer and Co.’s. McDowells
Ptd., etc., etc.
Send 2d. stamp for Booklet and sample of Soap or
Powder (name the color), or Dental Cream, to John
Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome). Sydney
Office: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street. Melbourne
Office: 831 Collins Street. Adelaide Office: Steam-
ship Buildings, Currie Street.
\Aeltom an
{specialties
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
AIL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St.. Melbourne.
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGEJNCJES • ALL • OVER • THE - WORLD
USHER’S
%
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER.
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
HOW THEY GOT HIM.
“’Strath, BUI, who done you in for your
stripe?”
“Wot! Didn’t yous hear about me gettin ’
the Military Cross?”
“No. But they'd never snipe ye for that.”
“Oh. wouldn’t they—you get ’em narked and
sec.”
A returned officer’s nightmare :
“When Billjim Crossed to Canaan” (B. 6/9/’l7), in
which a moonlight air-raid on the hospitals is men-
tioned, is the dinkum oil. I know, because I (1)
stopped the bomb which opened the festivities ; (2)
shared in the second, third and fourth horrors ; and
(3) was machine-gunned in the knee. Result: Four
months hospital, a ticket home and a leg like the
Seven Years of Famine.
The Hun ’planes (six of them) came over at
10,000 ft., shut off their engines, and dropped silently
down behind a convenient cloud-bank. The enter-
tainment opened with a helping of “tracer’ bullets
(bullets covered with a coinpo. of phosphorus to
show direction of fire). The wily Hun knew that the
rattle of a machine-gun was a rarity back o the
front line, and that we’d make better marks as we
streamed out in the moonlight than we would in the
darkness of tents and “bivvies.” He was right.
Curiosity proved a staunch ally of the Reaper’s that
night. The machines were flying so low that the
crosses which are painted on their wings could plainly
bo seen.
Lying on the ground with a shattered limb, I saw
scores of poor devils from the Tommy clearing-
station (patients most of them) running pathetically
before a couple of ‘planes which harried them like
savage sheep-dogs, and bunched them together for
the bombing. Then things began to hum. F.ach
’plane had its particular area to smash up (oh, the
Hun is cruelly methodical!) and whir-r-T-r-R-R-R-R
a devil would make a swooping dive. .. .Pdt-t-t-t-t-t-t
then fire a “belt” containing tracer bullets.... and
then the uzz-z-z-z-z-Z-Z-Z-Z... .BANG ! ! of a bomb.
For a quarter of an hour these shuttles of death
swept backwards and forwards qyer the defenceless
hospital, cutting us to ribbons. Then as suddenly
as the raid started came silence —if you leave the
groans out. That night the poppies in the barley-
fields of Palestine were stained a deeper crimson.
The fine point as to whether the Hun knew that
he was bombing a field-hospital will probably never
be cleared up; but as his observation ’planes came
over every day (sometimes twice a day) and leisurely
looked around (their casual treatment of our
“archies” was remarkable), and as we had red
crosses painted the full length of our tents and swung
horizontal lights at night, the Hun air-men of
Jacko’s army can hardly merit the benefit of the
doubt, especially when one considers similar bombing
raids on the hospitals of other fronts. (P.S.—
Nothing is mentioned here about our own ’planes,
because the least said of these the better. I could
till of things our splendid airmen did that night
with the machines they had. But )
Australia’s air squadron fund continues to
soar and to-day hovers at £57,708. Twenty
clippers of the clouds, each costing £2700 to
prepare for the pursuit of the squareheads,
have been thankfully received by the War
Office; and Billjim in Palestine could do
with a few more.
* * * *
“The Lamb”: Following “Blue Pill” (B.
30/S/T7), the lodge idea, of a'fair thing was
never better exemplified than in my case. I
received ss. per head per annum for the
supply of medicine to
500-odd members of
different friendly socie-
ties at a small Vic.
town. It worked out
at lid. a week. I
tried unsuccessfully
for an increase just
before the war, and
in 1915. after the price
of drugs had soared
so high that it was
lost to sight, I made
another attempt, ask-
ing for 95.. which was
well below the cur-
rent rate then gener-
ally paid in Vic. coun-
try districts. It was
refused ; so I resigned.
My fraternal friends
then tried their all-in
to either establish a
dispensary or get
another man to open
in opposition to me.
In the first case the
mere salary of the
dispenser would have
mopped up the whole
9s. a head per an-
num ; yet, rather than
pay me that amount
for the drugs, they
would have gone on
with their project only
that the total exes,
scared them. The
shortage of competent
pharmacists defeated
the second project. So
I was appointed again
—at 9s.—and they all
think I am buying
cars and war-bonds out of the profits.
Billjim was on guard somewhere in Flan-
ders in a region overshadowed by an impor-
tant officer named Boyd-llerrins. Billj. had
been ordered to keep a certain trench section
clear for stretcher cases. Enter Boyd-ller-
rins from a communication trench.
Billj : “Y’ can’t come this way, mate.”
B-H.: “It’s quite all rigM, my man. I'm only
going through to”
Billj: “But y’ ain’t goin’ through to”
B-H.: “Now, see here. I’m Boyd-Herrins, and”
Billj: “I don’t give a blank if y’r fried snapper,
y’r not cornin’ into this trench!”
And he didn’t.
IN HER MOTORING DISGUISE.
FIRST FELINE: “What were yon wearing in the motor at Kosciusko when Captain Tom
spoke to you ?”
SECOND FELINE: “Just my usual rig—motor goggles and a respirator. Why?”
THE FIRST: “He said you were looking your best.”
“The Immature Male”: The poor old
A.S.C. again “cops it” from the front line.
These hard days they are being helped along
their weary way to this jingle (tune:
“Yankee Doodle”) :
Oh, the infantry are in the line,
The artillery just behind them,
But when you want the A.S.C.
I’m blanked if you can find them!
But swaddies don’t mean all they say,
and those of us who were at Ma’adi will
always have a soft spot for Ally Sloper’s
Cavalry. Whenever we very badly wanted
a change of rations an A.S.C. car could be
depended upon to scoot along the Cairo
road, run over a few Gippo fowls, and scien-
tifically smuggle the same into the cook-
house. I’ve seen the loot figure on the menu
as “Pressed chicken.”
“Captain”: Many a sailorman believes
that the fall of a ship’s bell from its fasten-
ing foretells disaster. Certainly this small
accident happened on the Matunga on the
trip before last going north, much to the
concern of the crew, who prophesied trouble.
Leaving Rabaul on the last trip south it
was a common joke at that port that the
ship would never reach Sydney. That part
was managed safely; but to date the garri-
son has listened in vain for the usual yell
of the natives: “Big fella ship he cornel”
* * * *
“.T.R.S.”: Here’s another job for the
undertaker. In the police stables at Pater-
son (N.S.W.) is a human head, preserved
as Exhibit A since 1874. In that year the
decapitated body of a middle-aged man, never
identified, was found in Webber’s Creek,
Paterson River. The corpse was weighted
with sandstone tied on with a broken bridle-
rein. The head, perforated at the back as
by a bullet, was found in a waterhole close
by. Three Paterson residents were arrested
in connection with the crime, and after
several remands were released under a bond
in a small sum to come up for trial when
called upon. The matter ended there. With-
in a few hundred yards of the same spot
another mystery got its birth. In October
last the body of the wife of a Cessnock sol-
dier was discovered in the Paterson River,
anchored with a wire clothes-line and 50-odd
pounds of cast-iron.
* * * *
“E. J.C.”: When Billjim, in training or in
camp awaiting return to the Front, has to
turn semptress and do his own repairs his
language almost fires the tent. Why should
he be thus bothered with jobs he hates and
can’t do properly, while he is within easy
journey of good needlewomen who would be
delighted to help him? Why can’t Austra-
lian women generally imitate the practical
patriotism of a few Brisbane women who
have earned the blessings of thousands of
Bananalapders? These workers banded
tofether and got a sewing outfit, including a
machine. On certain days each week two
or three visit the different units and invite
all articles that require mending to be
handed in to them. The jobs are done and
the clothing returned to the owners the
same day. If some bright, energetic woman
starts a Sister Susie Society for Liverpool
(N.S.W.) she’ll never bo able to count all
her soldier-friends.
*• * * * .
“Rio”: “The Doocer” (B. G/9/T7), in
complaining of the unfairness, of making
officers and crews of transports ineligible for
pensions, is himself unfair to the military
officers in charge of troops. lie dubs them
“more-or-less military people.” As a matter
of fact, they are nearly all V.D.’s. —that is
have at least 20 years’ service. Colonel
Dean has 36, a large proportion of the others
saw service in S’Africa, Egypt and Gallipoli,
and several are C.B.’s. As to the politi-
cians—well, O’Loghlin has been an officer
since ’9O and Onslow since ’92: and the
latter fought in India and Africa. Whom
would “The Doocer” put in charge of rein-
forcements on troopships if not such men?
A “WHALE" FOR VENUS.
SHE ( while he draws away after a ter-
minate kiss ): “Then you don’t Jove me
any more!”
HE: “It isn't that, dearest. I had to come
up for a breather.”
“THE RETREAT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Its crimson wounds the dying day
Is showing in the west;
Its hours of glory passed away,
The sun sinks down to rest;
And, through the sudden hush that dwells
Awhile upon the fleet,
The bugles’ rising concert swells
The notes of “the retreat.”
The jest fades from the soldiers' lips,
The hymn’s soft chorus dies,
As down the stately lines of ships
The wave of silence flies.
Attention! for the glorious dead
Have earned Iheir own salute,
And reverence for the blood they shed
A moment keeps us mute.
Above the voices of the sea
That soils around the fleet,
Above the bugle’s harmony,
The spectral side-drums peat;
With proud and still unconquored tread
They pass in bright array:
The glorious army of our dead
Are with us still to-day.
March on! To glory are we pledged;
And who would fear to die,
Since death’s dark clouds are golden-edged,
And comrades marching by
Thus greet us when the bugle sounds,
And march us to our rest,
When, with its red but glorious wounds,
Our sun sinks in the west!
AT SEA.
HAMER.


Four Svdnev Professional Nurses testify to this Nerve Medicine, CLEMENTS TONIC
r 0 Bemuse they have noted .ha, in ea.ee o, Weakness after fever and operation, and general ill-health, a rapid improvement follow, it. u.e.
‘Montone,” Asliburner
NURSE 1,. BENNETT, who has her own private hospital,
Street, Manly, N.S.AV., writes the following letter:—
CLE «Kf X2F J know of your medicine there is no need for sick people to say farewell to
good health. . , . , s „ nf i j v, aV e observed the results of
“I have followed the nursing profess o o^e r S that Clements Tonic is a remark-
various medicines on my patents, and o e nerves, melancholy and insomnia. It
eertiinlv' h'is^'cmrative^ power,"and"anydelicate person could not do better than take it When
exhausted it always gives me renewed strength. “(Signed) Nurse Bennett.’
VI-RSK O’STEETVAN, Red fern and Parramatta, of 34 years’ constant nursing service
lave districts writes that in her opinion Clements Tonic is a medicine
specially suited to constitutions weakened by illness. She writes:
CLE “rclr S riJd ON on C mv D profession at Young Street, Red fern, for 25 years, and for the last nine
large number of FJSf&tSJZSZ »
NURSE MARY ROE. 80 William Street. Paddington. sends l.er opinion of Clements
Tonic after 15 years’ professional experience.
CLE «FOT T ma T i,? N Jear I s T ciements Tonic has been a great blessing to me. I take it when feeling
the least bit exhausted after the great demand on my services. I hate followed m> piofession for
15 ’'Tir/rSm.S'EffiSfTo Srjfe* *"1 *-**.«-<*►
~ . H , vr„ rA .„ s r ,, im , oninion there is nothing to equal Clements lonic. I know of
where it has almost wrought a miracle in the “
XTTRSF F II HALL. 502 New South Head Road. Woollahra, N.S.AI .. writes of*
Clements Tonic: “I recommend it to my patients in cases of Indigestion,
Dyspepsia and Ai*ute Nervousness.”
This medicine is certainly one of the best Nerve Restorers possible for Invalids or
those whose systems feel the strain of arduous labors, especially in commercial life.
A few doses of this medicine works wonders.
NURSE HALL writes: — .
‘‘l cannot estimate the value of your medicine. ,
‘‘Where my patients show symptoms of want of sleep, nervousness and dyspepsia 1 often
recommend it. My house would not be thoroughly equipped without it..
“Personally, I derive much benefit from a few doses of it when tatigued.
“CSie-nedl TVnrSfi K. H. Hall.
Essentially
Clements Tonic Ltd.,
, , a ... fovor nr oner at ions. It gives new life to the system, tones up the stomach, liver or nerves. Try it to-day.
nol^NsV 0 " CLEMENTS TONJC DOES GOOD BECAUSE IT IS GOOD. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
“One of the Boys” : Leave for our lot is
now graded this way: England, four days;
Scotland, five days; Ireland, six days. Bill-
jim .often has a great old time and wires for
an extension, pleading de'ath or sickness.
Lately one honest jsoul wired to his O.C.:—
Not sick. Nobody dead. Got plenty of money.
Having a good time. Please wire two days’ extension.
He scored three days for his initiative and
superb dash, and his telegram is now posted
in the brigade orderly-room in a frame.
ELIGIBLE.
"Do you like a man with a strong will?"
“Yes; if it's made in my favor."
“Billy Blue”: “D.F.” (B. 6/9/T7) says
that the name of Sydney seems to have been
a case of second thought. I fancy that,
like Topsy, it “just growed.” The town was
never officially baptised or proclaimed.
Phillip tells us that he christened the cove
“Sydney” and his despatches up to June,
1790, were mostly addressed from “Sydney
Cove, Port Jackson.” Some are headed
“The Camp, Sydney Cove, N.S.W.” In a
despatch dated June 17, 1790, he for the
first time gave his address as “Sydney,
Port Jackson.” Immediately after that he
dated his official correspondence “Sydney,
N.5.W.,” and it has stood at that ever since.
BEHIND THE TIMES.
OOFSTEIN (greatly agitated): “But, madam, re inthitht. This account mutht he paid.
Vy, it dateth hack to 1915.”
THE LADY: “ That's just what I say. A firm like yours ought to he downright ashamed
to send a customer anything so absurdly out of date.”
“Flers”: I wish the “returned empty”
officer had some papers to be marked. It
might make him a better travelling com-
panion on the homeward voyage. The troop-
ship which landed me back in Australia
brought 55 officers for discharge, not one
ot whom had heard the sound of an enemy
gun. Yet some of them insisted on us poor
broken devils standing to attention when
they passed and saluting them ! These fel-
lows fluff it on their return, and, worse still,
some of them are actually employed in train-
ing recruits and in getting Australian home
defence ready. D’you wonder that recruits
are not coming forward? Do you think
that, even if the military clique through the
Censor can silence the newspapers, he can
stop the talk of returned men and men in
camp ?
“P.L.”: Re the discovery of a baronet
working on the Sydney wharves during the
strike (B. 0/9/T7). I was in a camp when
one of the species was unearthed. An extra-
greasy sundowner had wandered in six days,
before. The quartermaster, whooping down
for a man to pick up rubbish about the camp,
spotted this chap deep in beery slumber, and
tried to gently stir him up. No response.
Severe shaking failed to arouse the sleeper,
but dislodged from his pocket a letter from
an English legal firm to one Sir Fitzgerald
McSniffles, Bart., acquainting him of the
fact that his wife had died without learning
his real name, and, furthermore, the annual
income from his estate was only £l2O,
whereas legal expenses amounted to £137.
Would he kindly remit the £l7? For the
sake of the glorious traditions of the British
aristocracy we put the letter back, and got
the cook’s off-sider to pick up the rubbish.
* * * *
Part of S. Australia’s plant for cultivating
Culture had its annual public exhibition last
week. There is an “institute” in every town-
ship, nearly—some 230 of them in all. Each
has a lending library and such other features
as it sees fit to add. They have replaced the
old ill-named “Mechanics’ Institutes” of half
a century back, and aim at being the intel-
lectual centre of each little community.
Unitedly they have the right to elect three
members to the Public Library and Art Gal-
lery Board in Adelaide, where also a council
of 10 keeps a general eye on institute con-
cerns and buys the new books which are sent
all round in boxes of 60. (There is no fiction
in these boxes; each Institute buys its own
Garvice.) And each year in Show 7 Week
delegates from the whole lot meet in the
city and discuss all sorts of topics which
they find interesting or useful, such as how 7
to attract children, brighten the lot of re-
turned soldiers, and take the place of the
pub as the after-six centre of attraction.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.” : The centenary of St. Mathew’s
Anglican Church at Windsor (N.S.W.) will
arrive on October 11, the foundation-stone
having been laid by Governor Lachlan Mac-
quarie on that date. The stone, like that of
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, was laid twice—
nay. thrice. On the first occasion, amidst
much ceremony, a holey dollar was placed
under the stone. That night the stone Avas
moved and the dollar stolen. The Governor
relaid the stone on the 13th, Parson Cart-
wright placing a dollar beneath —another
rlnllnr. T hone. In the following month this
dollar was also stolen. Then the stone was
relaid, this time presumably without a
dollar. The Roman Church at Windsor, by
the way, is also named St. Mathew’s. It
reminds one of the publican out in the salt-
bush whose place was infested with dogs all
called “Tows.” “D’ye name all your dogs
Towser?” asked a visitor. Bung yawned.
“Yers,” he drawled. “Can’t be bothered
thinkin’ up names fer dorgs.”
* *
The Melbourne suburbs begin to seethe
with political addresses. The newest idea
was delivered last week at Collingwood. The
saviour of his country was on finance. “There
is an income-tax exemption of £26 for every
child a man possesses,” said he. “That’s to
encourage those w T ho have children. But ’tis
no discouragement of those who have none.
I’d make the rich spinster pay a tax of £2O
for every child she has not got.”
“Copabella”: “Mary McC.’s” verses on
nmnitionettes trousers (B. 30/8/T7) raise
a very delicate little problem. Is
woman’s allure herself or her
clothes? The story of various
men-women of recent years leads
one to believe it is chiefly clothes,
and one wonders, if all men and
women were dressed and coiffured
alike, what effect it would have
on the cuddle-custom, if not the
marriage rate. Most of woman’s
imitations of man-clothes—tailor-
mades, riding-suits, stetsons —
only accentuate the femininity of
the wearers by their differences
from the real masculine, and the
pantomime “boy” is pure femi-
nine, emphasised n times. Clothes
plav so great a part. If they’re
baggy and fluffy they only show
up the small feminine face, hands
and feet by contrast, and there is
always an allure in seeking for
the “line” among the flowing
folds; if they’re scant and corset-
fitting, not a curve but discovers
the hidden goddess—well, more
or less hidden. But take away
the soft waves of hair, cover the
slim throat and ankles, flatten
the swelling chest; give her a
Yankee hair-cut, man's boots, hat.
square cut sac, straight vest and
stove-pipe legs; take away her
rings and bangles; make her look
always eyes-front instead of out
of the corners. Would we then
thrill as w 7 e do now when a little
white kid No. 5} is laid on our
sleeve, and from under a tip-
tilted hat and from behind an
amethyst veil a rosebud pair of
anilined lips say: “Chocolates,
please!” Or would we have to
wait the magic sex-touch until
her abounding contour made her
obvious? Methinks the dear
lady knows —and sticks tight to
fluff and frillies.
Since the war began Vie. State-school
kiddies have raised £210.000 and made
400,000. garments for use at the Front. The
contributions are packed and despatched at
the Montague-street depot, South Melbourne,
under the oversight of Major A. J. Dwyer.
who left, school-teaching” to win a D.S.O. in
France. The contributions run from arrow-
root to wallets; one list, taken at hazard,
enumerates 56 commodities. One kiddy, aged
five, sent in the money he had earned chop-
ping the kindling-wood, and some young
Phillip Islanders parted up £3O which they
had made by growing chicory. Spuds, maize,
wheat, and oats have been grown in school-
grounds and sold by auction, and many a
country kiddv has found that there is money
in chicken-raising as long as you get the eggs
free and don’t have to pay for the use of the
hen.
* * * *
“Jury Box”: I saw the < >'d and the New
types of unionist sharply contrasted at a
recent Sydney Quarter Sessions. The Old
type—a big grizzled Australian of 60 or so
—was in the witness-box telling how he had
helped to found the union many years before
and had toiled successively as president, sec-
retary and treasurer. The New type a
furtive little Immigrant but lately come to
Australia —was in the dock on a charge of
embezzling the union funds (£3OO or sol
while secretary of the organisation, lie had
no defence, and (as the Judge told him after
the jury had said guilty) would have done
better for himself by owning up. But he had
lacked the courage to do that, and made his
offence worse by 7 clumsily try’ing to up
and incriminate the old president. T\ hen
the jury came to examine the ramshackle
books tiie thief had manipulated, they 7 real-
ised how easy it had been for him to loot the
treasury 7 of his simple mates. Good men at
their trade, they knew as little of account-
ancy as they did of character-reading. But.
after all, their false friend stole only 7 their
money 7. How much worse is the cur who
robs decent, simple men of their honor?
“O. Longlook” : Now that the weather is
getting warmer in Melbourne, signs of the
times are to be seen on every hand. Before
me in the front stalls, the other evening,
there sat a stout dame who brought with her
one of those long, narrow bottles of eau de
Parramatta without which no boudoir is
complete. Early in the proceedings the ele-
phantine one started to squirt the perfume
over her distressed bosom, and by the end of
the first act the bottle was-half-empty. While
the heroine fell upon the neck of the fat hero
in the middle of the second act, amid a
breathless silence, squit, squish went the
cooling douche in the darkness, as Mrs.
Rhino poured the grateful spirit down the
back of her alabaster neck, and by the end
of the evening the bottle was quite dry. It
was a strange performance, somewhat sug-
gestive of the antics of a well-nourished
monkey with a neiv plaything. Still, at the
theatre one doesn't expect to observe strange
ladies carrying out their intimate rites of
the toilet —except upon the stage.
FAINT HEARTS.
SHE: “Oh, yes, you say you would do any-
thing for me; hut I suppose you arc like
all the others. So many have promised
me the Kaiser's sword and I haven't got
it yet."
DANCE OF THE DEANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Doans of Sydney and Newcastle had seats on
the platform.
Oh, your bishop is a Tory and your archbisk is
another,
And a curate would go frantic if a striker called
him “brother” ;
So for human understanding when the wigs are on
the greens
1 ou must strike the happy medium and go calling on
the Deans. ,
Oh, the democratic Deans! Happy, independent
Deans!
Their bishop has to cook them if he gives them
holy beans;
The curate flies in horror and the canon climbs a
tree,
But the Dean goes out to meetings like a bloke who's
bold and free.
(Appropriate dance with limelight effects.)
Lordly gaiters act like hobbles and your bishop feels
his mitre;
Hut your Dean he wanders gaily, for his saintly step
is lighter ;
He can differ with his bishop in a gentlemanly way,
And he feels no inward sinking when the strikers
yell “Hooravl”
Ah, the democratic Deans! Oh, the sympathetic
Deans!
Both smiling on the platform as the Ship of State
careens;
Though the strikers for their doctrines may not care
a tinker’s curse,
They are glad to have them with them when the
weather’s getting worse.
(Grand Finale: Carmagnole danced by full company.)
x.s.w.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


ON her OWN.
“We cannot take the word of the present rulers of Germany as a guarantee of anything enduring unless it explicitly supported by conclusive evidence of the will and purpose of the German people.” —President Wilson.
GERMANIA: “I’m sure William’s not on the right road to the Peace Market.


A PARTIALLY DEMENTED PERSON’S EFFORT TO GET A MENTAL PICTURE OF
THE RUSSIAN SITUATION.


Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
■wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrow*.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's*
THE K'V
mn
mmm
/
LEWIS &
WIiITTY
makers!
s
' 5
—• :-v>
;.;'.Q-C
vs
vmgii
1 V
& ■---
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
need CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You're child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach]
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act naturally
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember,
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the hrst treatment given.
«n t i l -c S „ eq , uals California Syrup of Figs
(alifig —for children’s ills; give a tea-
spoonful, and in a few hours all the waste
matter, sour bile and fermenting food clogged
in the bowels pass out of the system, and
you have a healthy and playful child again.
All children love this harmless, delicious
fruit laxative, and it never fails to effect a
good “inside cleansing.” Directions for
babies, children of all ages and grown-ups
are plainly on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a . bottle of “Califig”—California Syrup of
Figs—then look and see that it is made by
the California Fig Syrup Company. Refuse
substitutes. All chemists sell “Califig” •
California Syrup of Figs—in bottles of two
sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. I 4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melachrino
Cigarettes
THE HUMAN INTEREST.
THE ARTIST: “No, there isn't much demand
for landscape. Figure stuff seems to
he all the go this year."
THE COMEDIAN: “Same in our business, old
man. The scenery's all right as far as
it goes, hut the chorus is the real
draw.”
Two or three years ago Brig.-General
Johnston, son of the Speaker of Maoriland
Leg. Council, was home on furlough from
India and yarned with Colonel Baillie, an
Indian veteran, about the changes in the
military trade there. Johnston had trav-
elled with his regiment 1400 miles by rail
from Calcutta to the Punjab in four days;
Baillie, with the 24th foot, had taken three
years to march the distance. Baillie fought
the Sikhs at Chillianwallah in 1849; John-
ston had lately camped on the site. John-
ston was killed fighting in France in 1917 ;
Baillie spoke his condolences in the M.L.
Council a few days later. Ages: Baillie,
90; Johnston. 46.
Twe years ago five Australians were toil-
ing on Lewington’s wheat farm at Pine
Ridge One by one they reckoned
it was up to them, and went off to the war.
Now one man wears the V.C., another has
the D. 5.0., and a third the Military Medal.
The fourth is wounded and in hospital, and
the fifth has been invalided home with a
first-class discharge. If Australia got five
cards like that .out of every deal it would
scoop the pool.
John Madden, C.J., grows even more gar-
rulous, occasionally with distressing conse-
quences. Thus the other day, apropos of
nothing in particular, his Waxcellency
PREMIER LEE
of Tasmania.
talked about the
peculation that
went on in bo t h
State and Com-
monwealth depart-
ments, and men-
tioned lightly that
he had recently
tried “a case from
the Federal Treas-
ury of gross forg-
ery and uttering”;
whereupon a horri-
fied secretary of
the Treasury,
knowing what a
story of that kind
might lead to, was
simply compelled
to answer in self-
defence that at no
time since the
C o m m on w e alth
Treasury had come
into existence had
any of its officers
been charged with
forgery and utter-
ing, gross or other-
wise.
The encouragement offered to . thy Sydney
“Defence” Committee ,to bog in and-do some-
thing, even though it landed the lot in gaol,
recalls the comfort handed out to W. J.
Ferguson, the wittiest strike leader who ever
got into prison in Australia. “Never mind,
Mr. Ferguson,” said a lady who came to
comfort him. “Stone walls do not a prison
mgke, nor iron bars a cage.” Ferguson
looked around his cell. “No, madam,” he
answered. “But a very effective substitute.”
Mrs. Margaret Browne, “Rolf Boldre-
wood’s” brainy widow, died in Melbourne
last week.' She was a sister of the -Tate
Molesworth Greene and of the widow of the
Darley who used to be Noo South’s Chief
Justice.
Charles Gray, sec. to the Trades Hall
Council in Melbourne, is one of Vic.’s long-
distance Labor officials. In his early days
he came into notice as a for’orn-hoper
against the late John Murray at Warrnam-
bool. His first secretaryship was of the
Collectors’ Union, a job he still holds; and
he is u.ot too proud to acknowledge that he
himself once house-to-housed in search of
marine stores. When Steve Barker went
up to the Senate, the late James Munn got
the secretaryship of the Council,, but the
thing worried him to death, whereupon Gray
took charge and has held the trying billet
ever since.
The Speck’s population is so microscopic
that, though its men at the Front are as
good as the next lot, they don’t show out
very thick in the honors’ list. Nevertheless
three of them lately got into one lot of war
decorations. A Military Cross came to Captain
L. F. Giblin. an ex-Labor M.11.A. and the
only member of the local 1 ' ■ Parliament to
enlist, though not the only one eligible;
another fell to Cecil McVilly, for several
years amateur champion sculler of Tas-
mania and winner of the Diamond Sculls
Henley in 1913; the third was won by
Wendell Clark, who gave up doctoring King
Island to look after the 40th Battalion.
Giblin and Clark are sons of former Tas-
manian judges. Giblin, having a political
pull, was offered the usual “cushy” head-
quarters job when he enlisted. His reply
was splendid.
Wilfrid Snow, the young Australian who
has been promoted to be major in the Royal
Flying Corps, is in peace-time a mining-
engineer and metallurgist, and before the
war was engaged in the Sydney office of his
father, Francis H. Snow—the man whom
Hughes failed to convict of trading in metals
with the enemy. He could not get
a start at flying in Australia, so went to
England, entered a private flying school, won
his wings, and a commission followed —then
a Military Cross. His latest appointment
gives him the command of a squadron.
There is a younger brother in France who
is doing well with the motor drivers —a
pleasant change for him, as just before he
enlisted a motor-driver ran over and nearly
killed him in the Adelaide hills.
Private G. A. Ferrett, of Manly
(N.S.W.), who had his left leg shattered
by a German bomb and was taken prisoner
after lying for three days on the field, had
the limb amputated at the thigh ; and when
he-complained to the German surgeon who
was handling him roughly, the Hun
thrashed his helpless patient, hit him in
the mouth and refused to dress the wound
for a week. The comforting inscription
“Gott Strafe England” has been seen
painted over the doors of German operating-
theatres — L and where else could England or
Australia be strafed better by the German
beast?
Though ancient-mariner, city-councillor
and Australian manufacturer , Charles
Atkins, who used to be Lieut. Atkins of the
Lancashire Regiment, is now Capt. Atkins
of the same, he has not forgotten the dear
old parish pump aid is to be a candidate
for Albert Ward (Melb.) in November as
usual. At present he shares the honor of
representing the district with Stapley and
Henry Weedon.
Aviator John Duigan, of Ivanhoe (Vic.),
pioneer of air-flight aboard an all Australian
machine, has had two successes of late. In
a technical exam, for aviation students in
England he filled second place, and he has
since reached a captaincy in the R.F.C.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
Apropos that Tasmanian Arthur 03. 13/9/’ 17).
He was descended from Mrs. Mary Reibey, of his-
toric note in very early N. S. Wales. Mrs. Reibey’s
eldest son Tom, born on a Hawkesbury farm, married
Richarda Allen, a sister of George Allen, of Toxteth
Park, Glebe. They went to Tasmania —Van Die-
men's Land then —and settled on a Governor Mac-
quarie grant of 4000 acres which the Reibeys named
Entally. Tom and his wife had two sons and one
dabghtgi;, The eldest son, Thomas Reibey, M.A.
(Oxford)', reached the dignity of an archdeacon; but
owing to a notorious circumstance he resigned from
the GherCh, entered the Speck’s Parliament as
member for Westbury, became Premier and Speaker,
and" died in February, 1912, aged 91. The other
son, also an Oxonian, became rector of a living
in Devon. He did not return to Tasmania. The
daughter, Mary Allen Reibey, married Charles
Arthur, nephew of Governor Arthur, and the pair
produced the ex-parson whose death The Bulletin
has just recorded.
The restless and effective lightweight,
Thomas Ryan, moved on to Victoria lately
after about 25 years in S. Ans. At a
farewell meeting in his constituency of Sturt
he received high praise from a bunch of
prominent men —Peake, Crawford Vaughan,
Speaker Coneybeer, Styles, Smeaton and
Professor Darnley Naylor. Ryan has been
best known by his
work as chairman
of the Education
Committee, which
got the XJni. an in-
creased grant, and
in general shook
things up. What
he will even
attempt to do in
Vic. is still uncer-
tain. He told his
f a r e wellers: “I
know of nothing in
life I would rather
be than a member
of Parliament.” He
may possibly retain
his S.A. seat till
the general elec-
tion, to save the
Coalition the diffi-
culty of deciding
which section of it
shall compete for
the seat against the
Labor party in
whose name
Tommy first won
COLQUHOUN ,
M.L.A. (N.S.W.).
lawyer and cham-
pion sport.
V ri . ce » a 8011 S. Australia’s first
Labor 1 remier, got back home the other day
nursing a wound and a Military Cross.
Edmund Greenwood, of Canterbury ;«
going to have a tilt at Speaker Frank M a a
den at the Vic. elections, booked for Oeto
her. Greenwood has declared himself in
favor of “correct” economy, commenciu?
with Governors g
and Parliaments.
The new Candi-
da t e’s business
career has been
largely concerned
with canvas goods;
and as this country
hasn’t yet found
the energy to
manufacture can-
vas for itself,
Greenwood may be
able to give
some advice on
the subject.
ASSISTANT-
MINISTER
DAVID
STOREY
and his Hat
(N.S.W.).
Arthur Brown lately walked into Rich-
mond (Vic.) recruiting depot with an urgent
telegram in his hand announcing his son’s
death from wounds, and signed up to take
the lad’s place in France. Brown explained
that his other son was wounded in the re-
treat from Mons, went afterwards to Gal-
lipoli, and was now in France once more.
The father had been 12 years with the
Second Bedfordshires and four years in the
Northamptonshire Territorials.
“Ivan P.”: A recent Bulletin par. states
that since Father Joseph Ah Lee left Mel-
bourne, “no Chinese priest has been in Aus-
tralia.” This refers to priests of the R.C.
faith. But two Chinese priests of the Angli-
can variety have been in Australia for years
past—Soo Hoo Ten in Sydney and James
Cheong in Melbourne. Both are pure-
blooded Chinamen, though Cheong is Aus-
tralian-born. He is an M.A. of Melbourne
Uni., went to Oxford afterwards, and for the
last 13 years has been curate to parson
Hughes in Melbourne’s tony St. Peter’s
parish, which includes a good slice of Lilly
Buk-stleet. Cheong is one of the “highest”
of Anglicans ; Soo 1100 Ten is “low.”
From 11. S. W. Crummer, a son of Major
('rummer, the veteran of Wellington’s cam-
paigns, whose grave is at Port Macquarie:
My father’s old 28th Regiment, some of whose
exploits are recorded on the tombstone; had an
extraordinary distinction: it wore the number on the
hack as well as the front of the cap. The origin of
that practice was alike curious and creditable. In
Egypt they were attacked in front by infantry and
in rear by cavalry. The rear ranks simply turned
about; each then took on and defeated his adversary.
The regiment covered itself with equal glory at Quatre
Bras: Miss Thompson's famous picture “Quatre
Bras” is the 28th in square, in which formation it
repulsed many furious attacks of cuirassiers, squadron
upon squadron. It was incessantly engaged at Water-
loo, and in the midst of it the gallant Picton fell.
Major Crummer, on settling in N. S. Wales,
was appointed Police Magistrate at Port
Macquarie. He died at 79. His son. resi-
dent at Woolwich (Sydney), is now 77.
R. P. Brennan, late of the Vic. Criminal
Investigation Branch, and W. H. Pearce,
ditto of the Ma State, are the right and left
bowers in the handful of trumps held by
Captain M. L. F. Jarvie, adjutant of the
Anzac Provost Corps in England, whose
duty it is to see that Billjim remains within
the law when at the back of the Front.
Mostly Billjim does; but Jarvie has returned
to the pack one or two stray cards that didn t
follow suit. There was, for instance, a Surry
Hills private, who escaped detention at Suez,
tramped to Alexandria and boarded a Greek
tramp to Algiers, where he had four months
variegated loaf. He was caged on a French
picket boat and then detained 2S days at
Gibraltar. Later, at Salisbury Plain, he cut
his way out through the floor and started to
tour the British Isles. Caught again, he
escaped after three weeks, w r as arrested in
London, broke away from his escort, and was
not trapped until he reached Southampton-
When the mail left he was under lock and
key, but he is as hard to imprison as gas.
It was Pearce whose work led to the arrest
of Dr. Henderson Bell, charged with convey-
ing synovitis to an Australian soldier.
Brennan’s star turn so far has been the
capture of a soldier in the postal branch
who got away with £9OO from the Regent s
Park Base.
KAISER BILLIOUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Kaiser Bill first went to war
Without the least misgiving.
Intent on shedding all the gore
Of. all the foemen living.
His cheek was red, his health was good,
His eyes were bright and shining,
No matter how much fatty food
He might consume in dining.
He knew no ills
That needed pills
To cleanse his stomaclFs lining.
The time went on, but still his smile
Was confident and cheery ;
llis color gave no hint of bile,
His eyes were never bleary;
He spoke of Peace as nearly due
(A peace of his own making),
Nor feared that he might one day rue
Democracy awaking.
His cheek was reef;
His royal head
Was never hot and aching.
His Nibs is not so active now,
His mien less supercilious ;
He bears a pain across bis brow,
Does worried Kaiser Billious.
And, having bathed in human blood
Which floweth like a river,
Upon a bank of Flanders mud
In dreams he seems to shiver.
Ilis soldiers’ groans,
His people’s moans,
Have settled on his liver.
There is on earth no calomel
For Bill’s indisposition ;
No one to cure him, save in Hell
Where dwells the black physician;
There will he lead the simple life,
No shirt or martial cloaking.
No food to cause internal strife,
No beer, or wine, or smoking;
No foreign soil
To seize and spoil,
Just healthful toil—•
Just stoking, stoking, stoking.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


uwicck
TOBACCO
S&!>\
2
/niMI
\IP 2
-y
jO
(0
2T-Q
Australia’s
National
Smoke
In the ’way back as in the crowded cities of Australia
men find solace and content in the soothing, restful pipeful
of fragrant, friendly “Havelock.’’ It is the smoke for all
places, all times, all men.
Cut (in Tins), Flake or Mixture.
Also in Plug Form.
f>iTON 774?
THE
PIPE
OF PEACE AND QUALITY
c£mn3
400
£ve f /
pipe Guaranty


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF— BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
Soft Fig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAS
Dead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
The Government Buys Only Roofing It Has Tested and Analysed,
And they have selected for use on many important Public Works—
"ADAMAX" ASPHALTUM ROOFING.
I oc. .uuiiiht decay and. chemical corrosion, and much lower in cost than galvanised-iron.
Adamax is THE BEST THAT MONEY CAN BUY.”
nte ' or ’ ,ree Booklet, “The Adamax Series.”
-WILLIAM ADAMS ta, CO. LTD., 175 Clarence Street. Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins SLreet, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Bonus to Added Capital
Net Policy- to Re- and Re-
Profits. holders. Dividends. serves. serves.
Jri e, £ £ £ £ £
1005.. 518 6,247 164p.c.= 6,247 2,024 87,300
1906.. 15,048 6,536 144 „ „ 6,536 1.976 89,276
1907.. 753 6,707 14| ~ .. 6,707 5,339 94,615
1908.. 15.620 7,048} 15 : j „ „ 7,0484 1,523 96,138
1909.. 15.768 7,571 165 „ „ 7,571 626 96,764
1910.. 19.355 7,8904 17} „ ~ 7,8904 3,574 100,338
1911.. 989 8,491 16 „ „ 8,491 12,007 112,345
1912.. 9,2944 15 „ „ 9,294} 3,662 116,007
1913.. 284 10,359 16f „ ~ 10,359 5,566 121,573
1914.. 984 11,840 17 „ „ 11,840 2,304 123,877
New capital got in . . £54,889 )
Premiums on new shares 983 ) ’
1915.. 32.045 13,949 17 p.c. = 13,949 4,148 183,897
New capital . . . . £l2 ) 183,909
1916.. 33.571 13,985 11 p.c; = 13,985 5,601 ) 189,510
1917.. 618 14,812 10 „ „ 12,500 181,816
The practice of this co. has been altered, and
altered distinctly for the better. Hitherto
an interim dividend at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a.
has been paid, and at the end of the year
the shareholders have got an amount equal,
with the interim div., to 10 p.c. of the year’s
fire premiums. Thus the dividend bore no
relation to the profits. For many years this
worked out all right in practice, though in
theory it was all wrong. At that time the
co. was ultra-conservative, and did little but
highly selected business, which, of course,
meant a comparatively small revenue. Later
on risks were less fastidiously selected —
wisely, too, for though business that gives
an underwriting profit of 25 p.c. is sweet,
business that gives 10 p.c. year in and year
out is well worth having too. In 1900 there
was a profit of 25.9 p.c. on £37,235 of pre-
miums. For the past three years the profit
has averaged 15.2 p.c. on £144,600 of pre-
miums. But though 25 p.c. on £37,235
means only £9300, while 15 p.c. on £144,000
means £21,690, it is obvious that, after re-
turning 10 p.c. to policy-holders, there isn’t
10 p.c. available for shareholders without
dipping into the interest earnings on the co.’s
funds. True, the bonus was paid only on fire
premiums; but in the case of the Mercantile
Mutual fire premiums amount to over 90
p.c. of the total. In the altered circum-
stances of the co. the old plan of distribu-
tion having thus become impracticable, the
co. now pays a dividend of 10 p.c. on th.e
capital, while making the old rebate of 10
p.c. to fire policy-holders. Incidentally, the
co has also altered its articles to enable it
to do practically any sort of insurance busi-
ness other than life.
Unfortunately the new plan comes into
operation in a year in which the co.’s experi-
ence has been exceptionally bad, partly
through unusual hailstorm losses in N. S.
Wales and partly because the mad fire-bug
has been busy in Sydney. The next compari-
son shows what has happened in this and
some previous years :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £34,333 £13,376 £14,356 38.9 p.c. 41.8 p.c.
1900.. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24.4 „ 49.7 „
1905.. 50,534 12,051 26,961 23.8 „ 53.3 „
1910.. 72,406 21,656 35,078 29.9 „ 48.4 „
1912.. 99,701 32,300 49,907 32.4 ~ 50.0 ~
1913.. 115,817 40,056 54.591 34 5,, 47.1 ~
1914.. 130,673 48,868 62,007 37.3 „ 47.4 „
1915.. 136,85 S 50,664 61,458 37.0 „ 44.9 „
1916.. 143,320 46,267 68,841 32.3 „ 48.0„
1917.. 153,702 70,090 71,709 45.6 „ 46.6 „
There was thus for the past year a surplus
of only 7.8 p.c. = £11,903; and the 10 p.c.
rebate to fire policy-holders calls for £14,812.
Thus for part of the policy-holders’ rebate
or bonus and for the whole of the share-
holders’ dividend the co. has had to call on
the interest earnings; and as these amounted
to only £7533, previous undivided profits
have had to be drawn upon to the extent in
all of £7876. Still the co. can stand it all
right; for there are net assets of over
£206,900. All the same, in view of the rapid
increase of risks it is highly desirable that
the funds of the co. should be built up either
out of profits or by an increase of capital
or both. The net additions to reserves dur-
ing the past five years have been quite
negligible, though during that period the
risks, as measured by the premium income,
have been increased by £50.000. The position
has been made secure enough by getting in
over £50,000 of capital; but as the directors
evidently recognise, something more ought
to be done towards building up the co. out of
profits.
The Adelaide Steamship Co.: —
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1905. . £86,998 10 p.c. = £50,718 £36,280 £178,219
1906.. 76,307 10 „ „ 50,718 25,589 203,808
1907.. 83,890 10 „ „ 50,718 33,172 236,980
1908.. 82,850 10 „ „ 60,718 32,132 269,112
£202,870 transferred to capital .. 66,242
1909. 84,112 10 p.c. = 62,129 21,983 88,225
1910.. 85,462 10 „ „ 71,004 14,458 102,683
1911.. 67,221 10 „ „ 71,004 98,900
1912.. 51,852 8 „ „ 56,804 93,948
1913.. 49,874 3 „ „ 21,301 28,573 122,521
1914.. 63,754 6 „ „ 42,602 21,152 143,673
1915.. 67,903 6 „ „ 44.227 23,676 167,349
1916.. 226,531 104 „ „ 81,380 ( 95,151 262,500
Voted to Provident Fund, £50,000 )
1917.. 260,004 10 p.c. = 77,504 ) 132,500 395,0-00
Voted to Provident Fund, £50,000 j
The directors don’t put it quite like that.
Their P. and L. account shows just enough
surplus to pay the dividend: the balance
they have transferred to various funds as
follows: —
Added dur- Present
ing Year. Total.
Insurance account .. .. .. £ 50,000 £ 145,000
Repairs, renewals and replacement
fund 82,500 250,000
Provident fund .. .. .; 50,000 102,500
The Provident fund, which was started last
year with a vote of £50,000, is apparently
credited with its own earnings, though it
does not seem to be invested -separately.
Altogether it is a remarkable record ; and of
course it is mostly due to the war. Helped,
certainly, by what in the circumstances
looks a good deal like luck. For some years
before William broke loose, the co. had
plunged in ships, and had provided itself
with a fleet beyond the co.’s immediate re-
quirements. Between 1910 and 1914 the
Wandilla and Willochra (7755 tons each)
and the Warilda (7712 tons) had been added
besides several smaller vessels. To purchase
these additions and for other purposes the
co. had gone into debt to the extent of nearly
£400,000. As soon as the great trouble started
the Government had its eye on the co.’s
fine fleet. The Grantala was at once requi-
sitioned, the Wandilla a month or two later,
subsequently the Warilda and the Echunga
and Yankalilla at later dates. As the U
boats got busy, while the demand for ship-
ping was greater than it had ever been be-
fore, freights rose enormously, and with
them the hire of ships and their capital
value. The opportunity was seized to sell
the Grantala, Wollowra and Innamincka
(that was in 1916) ; and during the past
year the co.’s Commercial Wharf at Port
Adelaide was resumed by the S. Aus-
tralian Government and the Maria Creek
tramway by the Queensland Government.
Between all these things and a very
lucrative coastal and inter-State trade, a
profit has been made which must almost take
the breath of those old shareholders who re-
member the figures of 20 years ago. At that
time the capital was only £202,870, and 9
p.c. was paid.
No doubt because of the sale of vessels,
the directors have altered the-form of their
accounts during the past couple of years. In
1915 they .showed “steamers, hulks,' lighters,
plant, freehold properties, wharves and
shares in other cos.,” £1.174.674. Now those
items are bundled with “Government securi-
ties and fixed deposits” and the total is
£1.163.610, plus Commonwealth War Loan
£BO.OOO. It is thus impossible to say how
much undisclosed profit has been used to
write down steamers, etc. This, however,
can be said. In 1910 the co. owed £79.514
and had £llB 502 apart from the composite
item mentioned above. In 1915 it owed
£362,695 and had £153,341 of assets other
than steamers and freeholds, etc., thus show-
ins £209.854 excess of liabilities. Now, ex-
clusive of steamers, freeholds, Government
securities (other than Commonwealth War
Loan) and fixed deposits, it has £899,929 of
assets and owes £354.743, showing a surplus
of £45.186. Apd these. liabilities include
the Provident Fund. £102.500, though to
some extent that fund means a reduction of
future exes, and therefore isn’t an ordinary
liability.
Exactly how well the co. has been doing
it is impossible to say. It is obvious, how-
ever, that its financial position has been im-
proved almost beyond recognition. Certainly
if the co. had to promptly replace the
steamers it has sold it would have to pay out
a good deal of monev: but. after all, the
Grantala was only 3655 tons, the Wollowra
2681 tons and the old Innamincka 2501 tons;
and in ordinary times these wouldn’t, on
tonnage, account for more than one-tenth of
the earnings of the co. -
* * * #
A.M.C., Ltd. (Sydney) .—This is a
reconstruction of the Australian Motor Cab
Co., formed about six years ago. mostly in
Sydney, but partly in London, to run
taxis. It has been a shocking fiasco. The
present co. was formed by issuing on" share
for every two in the o'd co. and cutting out
some other capital. That left the new co.
with £27.130. The directors, having satis-
fied themselves that taxis couldn’t be run
successfully with hired labor tried to make
a do of it by hiring out cars; and that
wasn’t much more of a success. They then pro-
ceeded to realise; and the results in that
respect have been almost as disastrous.
Thus far Is. per share of the capital has
been returned, and there is still, nominally,
about £21,500 intact. The market value
of the assets to represent this capital. is,
however, doubtful. No bid was received
for the lease when it was recently offered ;
and when a car was submitted without re-
serve to test the market it realised ‘‘less
than 10 p.c. of its book value.” Other cars
have, however, been sold better than that.
Some (number unspecified) sold as they
stood brought less than half their book
value; others (number also unspecified)
were fitted with new bodies and brought
over 40 p.c. more than their book value.
The problem now is whether the co.
shall chance supplying the 23 unused cars
with new bodies, etc., or throw them on the
market as they are. In the event of the
co. deciding not to spend the money in re-
fitting the cars there is a further 2s. per
share available for return. On the experi-
ence of the past six months there shouldn’t
be much doubt about it. If re-conditioned
cars bring 40 p.c. more than their book value
and the cars as they stand bring 50 p.c. less
than \ their book value, the answer seems
easy—at any rate, so far as an instalment
of the cars is concerned. By that further
experience the future could be governed-
*. * * #
James Martin and Co., Ltd., formed to
take over an old-established Sydney machin-
ery business as from June, 1911 (the deficit
with which the cm started was represented
by goodwill and flotation expenses, £10,236,
less £1978 of reserves) :
0 Writ-
ten Towards De-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, licit
1911.. £8,258
1912.. £8,063 8 p.c. = £2052 £4OO £5611 2,647
Reserves.
1913.. 11,209 8 „ „ 5032 100 5777 3,130
1914.. 6,175 7 „ „ 4504 400 1271 4,401
1915.. 7,215 5 „ „ 4517 605 2093 6,494
Net
Profit.
1916.. 13,385 8 „ „ 7227 6158 12,652
1917.. 3,722 4 „ „ 3613 109 12,761
The Australian cocky doesn’t know where he
is. With a stack of wheat disimproving at
almost every railway station and siding that
he frequents, he naturally mistrusts the
market in the future ; and in N. S. Wales, at
any rate, he doesn’t repose complete confidence
in the promise of the Government to pay him
at least 4s. per bushel for the next two or
three years. Add to that his uncertainty
with regard to help, the result mainly of the
recruiting of about 350.600 Billjims. and the
.high price of all sorts of iron and steel
goods, and you have an explanation of the
“decreased turnover occasioned by the un-
satisfactory year from an agricultural
standpoint” mentioned by the directors. And
there have been the mice, too—an affliction
more serious than Australia has yet realised.
It is not only that large quantities of wheat
have been destroyed and large sums have
been spent on re-bagging and re-stacking.
Graver probably is the destruction of seed-
wheat, sometimes after it was planted, so
that many a cocky will have a very short
crop next harvest. On top of that is the
destruction of tens of thousands of tons of
hay which had been stored in a good year
against a drought. There is no telling how
serious that may be. Taking all these things
into account, it is not surprising that cocky
hasn’t been plunging in machinery. He has
been wanting to sell out oftener than to
buy. And that, by the way, is a matter
which has serious significance in view of the
talk about putting Billjim on the land.
The co. does a lot, perhaps most, of its
trading on the time-payment system; and
that runs away with money. Besides the
£90.336 of share capital, the co. has raised
£66,000 on debentures, and it ow r es £29,339
on other accounts. This floating debt is,
however, less than usual, because, in conse-
quence' of the diminished turnover, the book
debts (mostly time-payment balances) have
contracted in this wav: 1915, £ll5 712-
1916, £110,693; 1917, ‘£94,719. Stock-in-
trade, on the other hand, has piled up : 1915,
£59,472; 1916, £67,606; 1917, £76,797. Not
only are most materials abnormal in price,
but because the manufacturer or merchant
doesn’t know when his next lot of stuff will
come to hand, he has been packing his stores
whenever he could. Plenty of people who
were quite satisfied to have three or four
months’ supplies of raw material in hand
don’t feel comfortable now unless they have
enough for at least 12 months under their
own key. -Besides book debts and stock the
co. has £30.500 of other assets, including
freehold and plant. Goodwill, for which
this co. paid £BOOO to the trustees of the
late James Martin’s estate, has been written
down out of profits to £1500; and there is
enough reserved profit to wipe that, out
eight times over. Not a bad six years’ per-
formance. It has been erratic, and will no
doubt continue like that as long as the farmer
is so dependent on erratic seasons Yei
there isn’t a future for concerns of this iLI
there positively isn’t a future for Austral!?.
Tramway Board, Melbourne,— The \tni
bourne Tramways Trust, representing the
Melbourne municipalities, borrowed the
money to construct the tramways of that
city and then handed them over to the Mel
bourne Tramway and Omnibus Co on n
lease. This lease expired on June 30 101fi
The capital cost was raised by the i 1,,;
of £1.650,000 debentures. One of the terms
of the lease was that the co. should nav to
the Trust the half-yearly interest upon the
debentures, together with an annual con
tribution to a sinking fund sufficient to
redeem the debt at maturity. This covenant
was fulfilled. Six months prior to the
expiry of the lease a Tramway Board
was constituted to take over and carry on
the undertaking. It superseded the Trust
early last year and entered into possession
on July 1, 1916. But the co. had supplied
the rolling stock and various additions to
the Trust’s property, and these the Board
still had to pay for. The co. claimed £442 ’>55
in respect of about 30.000 different items
The Board could not accept this valuation
and the matter was referred to Justice
Cussen. lie said £335,000. As this sum
was awarded on a basis which the Board
regarded as wrong—practically the Judge
said that the Board was not entitled to get
the cars, etc., any cheaper because the co
had no lines to run them on—there was aii
appeal to the Full Court; and the Full
Court decided that Brother Cussen had
taken the wrong turning. The co. then
got leave to take the Privy Council’s
opinion; and there it stands at present
Meantime the Board had considered whether
the co. had fulfilled all the covenants of tin*
lease; and coming to the conclusion that
it hadn’t, a claim was made for £367,97',.
The Supreme Court will wrestle with this
during the next few months. So far as the
power-houses are . concerned the parties
agreed upon a fair sum to repair and reno-
vate them: and the co. paid up £4500 in
settlement.
The Board has now issued its first annual
report. Because its liabilities are still un-
certain. it cannot say definitely what the
financial results have been. But. tenta-
tively, these are the figures:—
Revenue. —
Trams £843,300
Interest .. . . .. .. 8,891
£852,191
Expenditure. —-
Traffic, maintenance and man-
agement .. .. ..£462,132
Costs of arbitration proceedings 8,289
Interest on award to <o. (sub-
ject to appeal) . . . . 16,750
487,171
Surplus revenue .. .. ..£865,020
This surplus is dealt with as follows: —
Renewals reserve . . .. £25,000
Reconstruction reserve . . 100,000
Unappropriated . . . . 240,020
Total . . . . £365,020
The gross capital expenditure by the Trust
was £1,660,736; by the present Board
£314,575. Total £1,975,314. In addition,
presumably, there is the capital expenditure
by the co.; the amount to be paid on that
account is yet to be determined. If the
Board has to hand over the full £335,000.
the capital in the undertaking will he
£2,310,000; and the year’s surplus, after
providing £125,000 for repairs and replac
ments, exceeds 10 p.c. on that amount.
The Board’s capital outlay thus far
(£314,578) has been advanced out of surplus
revenue, so that the Board has not had to
exercise any of its borrowing powers. Later
<m it will certainly have to electrify the city
lines at great cost; meantime it has to
spend something to provide the necessary
power to carry the extra loads that follow
upon the reduction of fares. These reduced
charges came into force in September, 1910.
The result is shown in these figures: 1959
passengers formerly paid as much as 2012
passengers pay now. Yet so many addi-
tional passengers are carried that the aver-
age amount collected per mile run is a shade
higher than in any of the previous five years
at least. Putting aside electrification as for
the present out of the question, the Board
a inis at giving (1) a cheaper and a
quicker service, (2) better lighting. (3)
greater assurance that the services will not
be interrupted. Something has already been
done in cheapening the service; tenders for
electric lighting the cars will be considered
this month; properties have been secured
for storing reserves of coal and coke adjoin-
ing the two big power-houses; and the Rich;
mond power station will be reconstructed
and further auxiliary power provided else-
where. with a view to add two miles per
hour to the speed of the cars. Incidentally
the Board supplies this statement of “aver-
age speed of cars between termini, includin'-'
stops, compiled from official sources”: Mel-
bourne, cable, 8.986 miles per hour; Sydney,


The British Weatinghouae Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd.
T ramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service,
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
rstintiliougf
M anchester
Head Office for Australia
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works: Trafford~Pftrk, Manchester, England.
jvui 11 not, uy uoing so .you can reduce
your operating expenses, because a single regulator
will control satisfactorily all the generators and
exciters in the station when operating in parallel,
thus not only decreasing your staff and reducing
your wage hill, but also increasing your output
whilst lessening your expenditure. Write us for
particulars. Australian General Electric Company,
Sydney and Melbourne.—Anvr.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler vvater, and is used throughout
Australia. Mater is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams * Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as thev can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis 'Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it. and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.-— Advt. ' [4
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the logical pipe for water
systems, has greater carrying capacity, is easier to
handle and to lay, is lighter and saves cost in
freight, costs from 25 per cent, to 60 per cent, less
than metal pipes, and is the cleanest pipe for convey-
ing water, which preserves instead of corroding wood
pipe, making it last indefinitely. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited, (head office) 57 York Street, Svdnev
Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic.': and
Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
If you have not heard of Lottoid you have not
heard of the best lining and ceiling material.
Lottoid is a Plaster Sheet made in Australia, into
various sizes up to nine feet long; it has a beautiful,
snow-white surface, which does not require painting,
and is only 2/6 per sq. yard. Samples from Spriggs’
Asbestolite C'o., 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Gyratory Rock Crusher, from Australian stock.
The world-renowned “McCully” No. 4 Manganese
fitted. Capacity 20 to 48 tons hourly. Applv,
sole representatives: Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
Head Office, The Quay, Sydney; or The Australian
Machinery Co. Ltd., 130 Charlotte-street, Bris-
bane. — Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of (he
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of vapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins "street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertline-
Balances Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals a
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H F
Selby * Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, S.vdnev • ’an
44M Bourkf* Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
Bo AN TO
\ f-MA BIMUU^
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock,
Insure in
Tk{ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250.000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,165 6 6
Gross Premium Income 187,940
ACENTS WANTED.
Established, 1910.
branches in every State.
1 Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonne
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Special Steel Castings
a ?hZS d A/^ S T EE !I C i S ™ GS re( l uiretl to complete
a CHARGING MACHINE for the BROKEN HILL FTY. STEEL
WORKS. r l hese Castings are, we believe, the LARGEST 4MT)
MOST INTRICATE MADE IN AUSTRALIATO DATE- the
7 TONS, another neighs 3 TONS, anti is
If you are interested in
particulars.
Steel Castings, write us for further
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
electric, 8.640 m.p.h.; Adelaide, electric,
10.060; Prahran and Malvern, electric,
10.938. But the comparison is merely de-
ceptive without an addition showing the
average number of stops per mile.
* * * *
G. D. Meudell from San Francisco :
The oil shortage in the U.S.A. has become serious.
The chairman of the National Council of Defence,
who is also president of the Standard Oil Co. of New
Jersey, says production is running behind consump-
tion at the rate of 35,000,000 barrels (of 42 gallons)
a year. The reserves in California are decreasing
at the rate of 35,000 barrels a day, and the demand
for petrol, lubricating oils and greases is increasing
at a terrific rate. The war demand is prodigious.
Motor-cars are being substituted for horse-drawn
trucks and waggons everywhere. E. L. Doheny, the
oil king of California and Mexico, says the Central
American countries are able to double the world’s
supply. But nobody wants to go drilling oil wells
in Mexico; and Nicaragua, Guatemala, Panama and
Ecuador are so far undeveloped. The position will
right itself after the war; meanwhile drilling pro-
ceeds feverishly in likely places in U.S.A.
Australia is in a very silly impasse regarding
petroleum and its products. Our country depends
almost entirely on two foreign oil-distributing coun-
tries for its petrol, engine and illuminating kero-
senes, lubricants and greases. We have created the
nucleus of an oil-burning Navy and we have not got
a gallon of fuel oil of our own to run the engines of
our war vessels. The automobile industry is choked
for want of cheap petrol and grease. The use of farm
tractors is not universal because oil fuel is dear
and scanty. The use of oil fuel to kill frosts in out-
orchards is practically unknown. The widespread
use of internal combustion engines in every industry
is retarded through lack of petrol. We cannot estab-
lish an aeroplane nor a submarine fleet because we
have no domestic supply of oil.
And notwithstanding all that, during the past
four years I have applied repeatedly and vainly to
the Minister for Papua to grant me a 20-years’ lease
of oil lands at Vailaila, near where Dr. Wade is
spending the. Commonwealth’s money so lavishly.
Minister after Minister has courteously declined to
let me put down a modern bore; although I have
offered to sell all the petroleum produced to the
Government at the market price of the day less a
reasonable rental or royalty. The reply invariably
has been: “The Government policy for Papua is
unchanged,” meaning that Private Enterprise will not
be allowed to do any drilling. In a crisis political
theories about nationalisation, or adverse to monopo-
lies or trusts, ought not to stop the way to increasing
the national resources and assets. We know there is
oil in Papua and the American oil men know how-
to get it out despite mud or water or caving sands
or shifty casing. As the Government drilling party
cannot bring in a flowing well of any value, why
not let us try ? The Government can easily safeguard
the public rights and take over the oilfields after
we have developed them at a reasonable price to be
agreed upon beforehand. There is nothing to stop
the Minister giving us a show to instal the latest
drilling machinery under competent American
drillers. We are ready to do the business. We
know we can establish oil wells, and we only ask a
reasonable profit. I can get the money, the men and
the plant here and quickly. Will some member of
the Federal Parliament, who is as perfervid and as
wholehearted an Australian as I am, marry himself
lo this enormously important question of striking-
oil in Australia?
* * • * *
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), held its
half-yearly meeting on August 31. In the six
months it treated 11.509 tons ore, worth 365.
per ton, at a cost of £21,204, for a return
of 41430 z. gold, valued at £17,567. So it
went about £3600 to the bad. The grade of
ore was lower than usual owing to the neces-
sity of breaking out poor stuff to put the
mine in order; but now the manager says
everything underground is shipshape and in
readiness to maintain a continuous supply of
profitable stone. Reserves are estimated at
55.150 tons valued at about £123,800.
Although total treatment costs for the term
amounted to £1 16s. lOd. per ton, those for
the last eight weeks’ run were £1 9s. 3d. per
ton. But it’s very doubtful if they can be
kept down to that figure under present condi-
tions. As firewood alone cost £3586, or
nearly 6s. 3d. per ton of ore treated, the
manager seems justified in complaining of
the high cost of power. lie wants to put in
chain-grate stokers to the Babcock-Willcox
boilers and use coal. Finances are anything
but brilliant, and shareholders may be asked
to dip in. One call of 3d. has already been
made, but that will provide only £350. The
balance-sheet shows, amongst other items:
Liabilities—Sundry creditors, £4651 ; Bill
payable, £1000; advance against go'd in
transit, £1281; Commercial Bank. £5232:
wages accrued, £562. And assets —Stores,
etc., £2681 ; sundry debtors, £559; gold in
transit, £2876 ; fixed deposit, £5939.
* * * *
The Ma State’s gold output last year was
the lowest since ’B9, being well under half a
million in value. The slither lias been un-
interrupted since 190jl, and hasn’t finished
yet. Last year the quartz mines averaged
7dwt. 6gr. per ton as compared with 7dwt.
9gr. in the previous 12 months. The alluvial
yields were 3gr.—just half the previous
year’s average.
Edwards’s molybdenite and bismuth claim,
near Tamworfh (N.S.W.), is developing into
a property of some importance. The owners
intend to build a small battery to treat
milling ore, for the lode stuff is carrying
both bismuth and molybdenite. Hitherto
attention has been given to the high-grade
stuff, which occurs in pockets in the ore
channel. A JX) p.c. molybdenite concentrate
is worth £450, and high-grade bismuth ore
is also very valuable, for metallic bismuth is
scarce at £BOO per ton. The announcement
that shipping space will be provided for bis-
muth concentrates indicates an urgent
demand for the metal for war-winning
purposes.
With fine silver well over 4s. per oz.,
Broken Hill is reaping a rich harvest from
slimes—until lately the local metallurgist’s
bugbear. B. 11. South’s average profit from
its new plant has recently been £l6BO per
week.
* * * *
Creedon’s Find, near Mt. Monger (W.A.),
is being billed as the best that has been
unearthed east of Yilgarn for many years.
A number of rich erushings have already
been obtained by parties of working miners,
but so far the ore shoots have not proved of
sufficient bulk to induce the Mines Depart-
ment to build a State battery. However,
new discoveries are being made, and the
local crowd lives in hopes.
* * * * *
From Westonia :
Deeps j'ield for August was satisfactory enough,
but it was much below the anticipations of local
supporters, who expected something nearer £lO,OOO.
The 500 ft. level has been opened for 150 ft. and for
an average width of 13ft. As the whole of the ore
from driving at 560 ft., together with a quantity of
ore from the poorer stopes above 480 ft., was
milled, there must be some high-grade stuff at vari-
ous points in the 560 ft. workings. There is little
doubt, however, that the ore becomes appreciably
poorer as the level is extended north. There may
be 20,000 tons in the mine above 560 ft. level, so the
market which estimates the worth of the mine at,
say, £150,000 is allowing a big prospective value
for developments at depth. Prospects that way are
good, but, true to the bad old traditions of Westonia,
the market is anticipating them. It is proposed to
increase the tonnage treated monthly, and it is safe
to expect that as it goes up the grade will come
down.
Central has at present nothing better than a big
reserve of low-grade ore and good management. But
the prospects of striking the Consolidated’s reef at
depth are good, and this is about the best that tan
be said of the property. There are some small divi-
dends in sight, but unless the Consolidated reef gives
it a decent lift there won’t be many.
Consolidated should start crushing this month, and
at least a few satisfactory returns are assured. Pros-
pects at depth are poor.
Battler struck 15in. of stone in the bottom level
officially estimated to be worth 20z., and the market
went skyward. As some people think that Battler
has struck the continuation of the Deeps reef, it
might be well to point out that the two properties
are three miles apart.
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has struck a sft.
body of ounce ore at No. 12 level which is
claimed to be the best development for a long
time. Probably it is. For years the co. has
by careful management, and occasional finds
such as the one mentioned above, managed
to make ends meet and pay an occasional
dividend ; but it hangs by a "slender thread.
Another nasty knock for Mararoa, Norse-
man (W.A.). Work north on the No. 5
level, above No. 6 and below No. 7 inter-
mediate, points to the solemn fact of a pinch-
ing of the stone and a fall in values. General-
manager Henderson doesn’t fail to express
his sorrow at these disappointments, admit-
ting that the position of the mine to-day
isn’t as good as it was six months back. lie
will not commit himself either to a statement
of what ore is in reserve. His last six
months’ work yielded bullion worth £24,850,
won from 15,000 tons. The average value
was 31s. 3d. per ton, from which the 00.
netted roughly £6OOO. Henderson wails
loudly over the chance of being hit up in
the Federal Arbitration Court. Certainly
with a low-grade mine like the Mararoa addi-
tional charges mean a lot. But the co.
hasn’t done badly to pay £142,500 on £15,000
capital. It also clings to a cash reserve of
£lO.OOO and it only needs a new shoot to be
happy still in spite of Justice Higgins.
Bulong (W.A.) has a magnesite deposit
which it complains is being neglected. Years
ago a speculative Adelaide syndicate got a
concession over a big area and toyed with it
a bit. Then the I’ermasite Co. (Melb.)
acquired the concession, but since last
February has done nothing. Pressure is
being brought to hear on the Mines Depart-
ment to force it to work the show or get
out and give someone else a chance.
•*■*•*#
Mount Lyell (Tas.) is doubly blessed with
electrolytic copper selling at £135 and fine
silver at 4s. 4d. per oz. The latest four-
weekly return showed 446 tons copper,
27,1450 z. silver, 6530 z. gold. Taken together
precious metals are worth more than £lB per
ton of fine copper; at 4s. 4d. per oz. the
silver alone is worth £l3. The fly in the
butter is the difficulty of getting to market;
so Lyell isn’t smelting nearly up to its
capacity.
* * * *
Owing to the strike, North Mount Farrell
(Tas.) cannot get delivery of machinery for
its new power plant from the mainland. And
owing to the way Hughes, the incomparable
messer, has fixed up the metals business,
there is no market for any ore the co. can
get away. So all the miners have been dis-
charged except a dozen who are at work
deepening the shaft.
A fresh lot of excuses will have to be
got ready for the half-yearly corroboree
over Lyell Blocks. This show is punching
away at 1200 ft. north to get the leavings
from the rich North Lyell platter; but the
ore exposed is only worth a flutter even in
these days of tip-top metal prices: 116 tons
sent to the Lyell works went 4.62 p.c. copper
and soz. silver per ton. And at present it
doesn t seem as if there is much of even that
grade to stope. As a profit of £2 Bs. per
ton was made, manager Carroll has scratched
out another parcel, but it is slow work.
Still his heart is big. so he proposes to bore
north 700 ft. to the boundary to see if a
lens of ore is in that direction. Then he
intends to have a shot underfoot with the
drill, and to fill up odd time he will do
more work above 1200 ft. If this programme
doesn’t exhaust him he may scheme to get
electric [tower from Stieht’s Lake Margaret
plant and earn a crust by working the auri-
ferous clays above 600 ft. on which in F.
Gee Duff’s days a boom was born. But
that would be the last resort.
* * * *
There is a jig in Duke Extended, Mary-
borough (Vic.), on the strength of good pro-
spects in the new north-west workings. The
office introduction reads: “Wash drives in
various directions from No. 2 rise have
yielded, through the machines, the very satis-
factory average of lOdwt. per fathom, of
manganese-coated gold, whilst flour gold in
abundance is obtained from every quarter-
characteristic of the long-lost Duke gutter
at its best.’’ Alec Peacock signs this psalmody,
so his is the responsibility. It is, how-
ever. George Bryant who swears that the
co. has got into the long-lost Duke gutter.
If so, it means that Finder, Pitt and
their- successors went astray when they
jogged off to the north-east, instead of driv-
ing due north from the big crab-hole beyond
the old Duke United shaft. But it is a bit
early to chortle —unless you’re one of the
shrewd heads that picked up a lot of cheap
scrip and retailed it on the rise.
Clark’s, at Charters Towers, presented a
first-rate half-yearly report, and the term
ended with a credit balance of over £BOOO. The
Brisbane shareholders expected a bit more
than a 3d. dividend, and finally the directors
obliged with a bonus of 3d. The lot cost
£2250, so the till isn’t empty. During the
half-year 909 tons gave £15,057, as against
£oo2l from <23 tons in the previous term.
A mine that crushes stone for an average of
£7 per ton one half-year and £l6 per ton in
the next looks too patchy to be trusted, and
the directors’ deliberation over a full-blown
sixpenny can be understood. The mine is
now raising 80 tons per fortnight, and at
last report had 196 tons ready for the mill.
The stone varies from 6in. to a foot.
Ambrose Pratt, chairman of directors, lets
himself go over the Coronet Hill (N.T.)
copper show in real Thunderbolt style. He
starts with a story of hard-uppishness that
might have become “imminent and urgent”
unless reconstruction could have been nego-
tiated. But at the right moment manager
Callanan came along as the fairy-godfather
with “extensive quantities of rich oxide ore
bodies ’ —measurements not given—overlym"
the sulphide lodes. On this the evil genius
Reconstruction was routed. So the “slender
store of capital” was made “to surmount all
interim financial and other difficulties.” Fol-
lowed the real bushranger episode. This was
the “persuading” of £2OOO out of the Federal
purse to pay for a small reduction furnace.
By thus “graciously agreeing,” the Govern-
ment is now regarded “as a partner in the
enterprise.” However. Bigjohn Forrest in-
sists on still going ahead with his 20-million
loan. Maybe he is too dazzled to take in
the sulphide possibilities or to digest what
a wealth lies under the “several big clearly-
defined outcrops of almost uniform size and
character” to which Ambrose testifies. But
if Bigjohn was a bit slow, the market wasn’t,
for it jumped shares from a fiver to £25.
Callanan’s scheme is to turn out a 65 to 70
p.c. matte from the reverberatorv, using fire-
wood as fuel.
“Bullant” Mclntyre announces, on the eve
of an election eamnaign against Minister for
Mines Hudson ( W.A.), that he has sold the
drowned and mostly tumbled-in Fraser’s
group of mines at Southern Cross to an
American co. with a nominal capital of two
million dollars. It is not, however, intended.
“Bullant” naively adds, to re-onen the pro-
perty and spend money until six months
after the war. If an attempt is ever really
made to resuscitate the show there can be
only one result. It is too far gone and too
low grade.
* * * *
Advertised for public auction early next
month, the machinery and plant of the
Mount Morgan Tailings Co. This concern
was formed a couple of years ago to treat
the tailings from Mount Morgan mine, but
with little success owing chiefly to a heavy
increase in labor and other costs. This is
the second such sale held in Central Banana-
land within a short space. The other was at
Mount Chalmers.
(' U ild Cat” continued on page B^.)


Caid#!ifCU>irw4*k
HEERINGd
HEERINC’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
are ific (hfrecir
Expression
CD
O
PAULINE et CIE
Announce that they are showing Special
Models in Hats, Coats and Skirts, Day and
Evening Frocks, etc., for the Race Season.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers
George Street. Svdnew S ’
Missing- Friends.
T
Re Alex. Kinghorn, deceased.
'HE address 0 f WILLIAM VERT
KINGHORN, a beneficiary under the
will of the abovenamed deceased, is urgently
required by THE BALLARAT TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY
LIMITED, Ballarat. Victoria. -T. S.
M RIGHT-SMITH of Warracknabeal, Vic-
toria, Proctor for the Executor.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
“Better
than Either’
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia-
get a bottle.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, September 17, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
Word that a new Governor, Sir Walter
Davidson, will reign over us —with reserva-
tions —is likely to raise the drooping spirits
of the permanent Government House brigade.
Sepulchral gloom is the prevailing feature
of the present regime. The new man comes
from Newfoundland and is a mature 58. His
wife—he married this one only nine years
ago—is Margaret Agnes, youngest daughter
of the late General Sir Percy Feilding. There
is an earl on the father’s side (Denbigh) and
a marquis on the mother’s (Bath). So
we’ve got something more than a mere
lately-kniglited civil servant (he used to
have a job in Ceylon), you see.
Lady Davidson won’t be quite a stranger.
As Miss Feilding she was the guest of Lady
Northcote and spent six months in Aus-
tralia. A brother, Captain Feilding, was on
Governor Duff’s staff in the long ago. The
new people arrive early in 1918.
Dr. Carty Salmon’s death recalls one of
the most gilt-edged weddings in this town.
On the day he handed the late Mat Harris's
handsome daughter a gold ring, hundreds
of citizens struggled to get through the
crowd for a glimpse of the bride. Father
was then wearing the Mayoral robes, so
there was a gorgeous reception in the Town
Hall. That stronghold was turned into a
palm-grove, and the florist must have
dropped with exhaustion after the final
effort —an Arcadian arch in the centre.
Now there’s a sheaf of sympathy for the
widow, who has lost mother, father and
husband within a few months.
The War Chest’s Floral Fete filled the
Town Hall with gladsome Spring. With
reinforcements it lasted two days. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly in green flounces dashed this
way and that to round up the evening pil-
grims to procesh round the hall. Decked
as flowers they had to thread a narrow cork-
screw track through a dense mass of craned
necks. Just here the organisation was weak;
to get a view the public leapt on to show
tables and planted an occasional boot in
a box of sweets. Floral parasols, delicate as
a butterfly’s wings, rocked and wilted before
the onslaught, and it seemed to be nobody’s
business to save the situation.
The Crinoline Girls, in pink silk balloons,
spun garlands of roses round the Flowers as
they got a hand-up to the platform. Mrs.
Murray Will was responsible for this slender-
waisted lot of beauties. Mrs. Arnott
arranged the Waratahs, and Mrs. Walter
Brunton and Mrs. Schute the Azaleas. The
Blue Convolvuli—most decorative damsels —
were twined together by Mrs. Stewart
Osborne and Mrs. Wilkinson. Peach-blos-
soms got a cheer for their outfit. Mrs.
Leonard Dodds cultivated this handsome
garden-bed, and it blew briskly under the
powder and patches that every flowering
peach would have—if it had gone to Court in
Nell Gwynne’s day. Mary Layton headed
the lively magpie set that got a hum of
praise from any male bees in the hive. Mrs.
Cecil Purser's flower-stall, with youthful
beauties in green and stripes—-not the veran-
dah pattern—and little Mrs. Shimizu (in
charge of the vestibule, with a herd of
maidens and the Brownlow girls to help)
were great money-spinners.
The Home for Incurables set amongst the
green hills of Ryde gave a big pull at the
public sleeve the other night. A huge
gathering—most of it had cheerfully paid a
shilling to book its seat —jambed itself into
the Town Hall. The Deputy-Governor hav-
ing blazed the trail for Meredith Atkinson,
the Uni. lecturer gave a stirring account of
a recent trip to this haven for the never-to-
get-better. At the crisis the collection-box
was carried round, and money rattled like
sudden hail against a window. Some stanch
friends stand behind this home, and none
stancher than Miss Margaret Harris, who
serves on the Home’s executive.
Bruce, one of the numerous squatting
Ryries from the Cooma district, was wed in
some local splendor to a daughter of Educa-
tion Minister James. Altona Lilian’s frock
has been a pet theme for other young persons
who are thinking of trousseaux. She bil-
lowed down St. Stephen's aisle on father’s
arm in the latest tulle dream—l fancy it was
supported by silk —made to look as much
like a white rose as its terraces of petals
would let it. The silver tissue that gleamed
in the frothy corsage is the last sigh in
fashion, and is the one alternative to the
silver wheat-ears which are the rage this
spring. There was no pink tinge visible in
the finery. The bridesmaidens floated
behind in pale salmon and heliotrope tulle,
and if Enid James and her small lady-helps
had blown up to the altar like thistledown
only the Rev. John Ferguson and Uncle
James (assisting cleric) would have been
surprised. Tulle is this season’s obsession,
and the tiny bridesmaid who is surrounded
by the fairy stuff is first cousin to a seraph
in a nicely-starched cloud. The Jameses had
a big family party, with a sprinkle of poli-
ticians and their ladies, at Petty's.
Granville Ryrie, a relative of the ’groom,
and now a brigadier-general, is still crusad-
ing in Palestine.
One of the minor sobs of a great war. On
the day of Myra Shelley’s wedding (the
happy man was Ernest Collins, of Candelo)
a big parcel with many travel-signs arrived
at the Shelley home, Avonlea, Hamilton.
One of the girls of the household opened it
and found, intact, even to the icing, the
birthday cake they had made for their lad
at the Front. He was killed before it got
to France. With the bitter irony of fate it
had come back safely, while tons of com-
forts go to the bottom. They hid the thing
away from mother till the wedding-day was
past.
The Winter Garden at the Australia isn’t
large enough for the thirsty tea-drinking and
cocktail crowd who swarm there six after-
noons a week and sometimes seven. So
there’s to be an extension and more palm-
shaded space. The new glade will get a
christening at a cafe ehantant for the big
Chest on September 28.
A few weeks ago
Queen Mary had a
long look at Red
Cross work behind
the lines in France.
A Sydney woman
had to see to the
reception of lI.M. at
Rouen Hospital.
Here is the classic
profile of our Night-
ingale, Nora
Fletcher, the young
Matron-in-Chief of
the British Red
Cross in France.
Honors have been
heaped on this cap-
able Australian. She
wears the Royal Red
Cross (Ist class),
and is Serving Sister of St. John. There’s
a hint of still more to come. Trained chiefly
at our Coast Hospital, Nora went to England
about eight years ago. When war broke out
she crossed to France with a little unit of
10 nurses, who voted that she should take
command. Thus, in the early confusion of
stemming the blood that flowed from the
Hun’s invasion, it fell to the lot of an Aus-
tralian woman to swiftly organise a tiny
band of healers. Appointed matron of one
of the first Red Cross hospitals, she is now
the Chief. Father is J. W. Fletcher, of
Neutral Bay ; and Judith, the Sydney photo-
artist, is a sister.
The 30-year-old convention that Potts
Point holds the rank and fashion of Sydney
still flourishes iu odd places, and the poor
“wage-slave” is occasionally presented with
a cartoon showing a villainous Fat Man
smirking fondly at a bloated, overdressed
female labelled “Mrs. Potts Point.” The
present strike has given the old myth a fresh
airing. Alas, the poor old Point is now a
waste of flats and boarding-houses peopled
by struggling landladies and scuffling hash-
eaters, and the Fat Man doesn’t know it
except as a fairly reliable rent-producing
district through which he occasionally climbs
in his car. As for bowing and smirking
at poor Mrs. Potts Point, he never sees that
harassed female, she being too busy at the
back whooping up the boarder’s dinner.
The Maddens—mother and daughter
Lesley—have been here for a week or two.
On business bent. Lesley showed some fas-
cinating lingerie to our Best People at the
Australia. A room hung with cr6pe de chine
underwear, garlanded with hand-made rose-
buds in microscopic ribbon work, may be
called the Great Temptation. The Victorian
Chief Justice’s treasure is now in the gos-
samer underlinen trade. Perhaps she finds
it a bother that so many more were there
before her. In Sydney the Philip Morton
girls and a good many others quietly compete
in their town mansions with the trousseau
stitchers of meaner streets.
The Old Gold and Silver merchants, who
trade for love of country only, will have
a stall in Martin-place on War Chest Day.
In the mannequin parades last week the
boudoir cap was a fluttering climax to the
dressing-gown series. “The gown” is a
humble' word to pin on to the glorified
silken robe described as a “lounge” garment.
Handpainted, and cut to fall in the kind of
n.c. drapery in which a Greek matron held
her first and second days of the moon, it is
top-dressed by a little lace cap. These caps
are made rather like gossamer sou'-westers
with lace verandahs over the back of the
neck. In the dense mass of women who
viewed the mannequins en route to the bath-
room it was curious to see male visitors on
tip-toe. Probably they sell glad rags and
were out for hints.
How the local resident views his subbub.
When Colonel Mackesey, D. 5.0., was filling-
in time here, owing to the strike-delayed
shipping, he got by chance into _ a Bondi
tram. Noticing that most of his fellow-
travellers said “Right out,” he asked an
elderly matron if there was anything special
to see at “Rightout.” “Not as I knows on,”
said the dame, who was laden with small
baggage, “unless it’s my daughter— that’s
all I goes to see!”
Another son of A. E. Hunt, M.L.C. —
Lieut. Alfred of the Royal Flying Corps—
was killed the other week. Fate was wait-
ing in the shape of an aeroplane accident in
England, after the youngster had gone safely
through much trench-fighting in France. His
brother Bruce fired his last shot in the
struggle for Pozieres. But the trouble
doesn’t prevent the father’s practical inter-
est iu the countrymen’s camp at the Cricket
Ground.
Gowing Bros, clamor for a big audience
in St. James's Hall on September 22 at S
in the evening. A rattling good programme
will help the object—soldiers’ comforts, to
be passed on through the War Chest. Reg
Gowing, the senior of the brotherhood, put
his business services at the disposal of the
Commonwealth a couple of years ago. He
was sent to London and has been the officer
in charge of contracts at Headquarters ever
since. A lonely wife tried last year to get a
passport for the other side; but —no! So
she is playing patience at Strathfield.
Captain Gillies, A.M.C., and the new Mrs.
Gillies have been ’mooning away the happy
hours at Avoca, beyond the minor woes of
this stricken town. The attractive Maitland
bride—she was Irene Guthrie-Harris —has
some of the sweetest things in taffetas that
the local tripper has seen.
Died on Thursday, at Ashfield, in her 84tli
year, Mrs. Edith Windeyer Ralston, relict
of Alexander James Ralston, one-time clerk
in the Legislative Assembly and afterwards
secretary of the A.M.P. Society. He was
the youngest son of Gavin Ralston, who
went as a young man to Van Diemen’s Land
and started life as a sheep-farmer. On the
discovery of gold he sold out and crossed
to Melbourne, and there built the first
stone house at South Yarra. The recently-
deceased lady was a younger daughter of
John Thompson, Deputy Surveyor-General
of N. S. Wales, born in Sydney in 1833, her
mother being a sister of Richard Windeyer,
who was father of the late Judge. There are
two sons, A. G. Ralston, K.C., and J. T.
Ralston, solicitor, and a daughter, Mrs. Tom
Raine.
The Andy Stuart dame made the opening
remarks at the Ascham fete for the A.M.C.
In the big grounds that treasure green lawns
behind bushy wind-screens of flowering
shrubs, the raiders took down the visitors
who had gone there like lambs to the
slaughter.
Under the brim of
this picturesque mil-
linery is a man
from Michigan Uni.,
U.S.A., as Judith
Fletcher depicts
him. As all the
Trueblood family—
mostly they come
from Indiana —have
Quakers behind
them, the soft-voiced
Prof, of Oratory was
on the Pacifists’ side
in the first days of
the war. With
Taft and Bryan, he
dreamt dreams of
International Arbi-
tration and Peace.
And like his friends,
he still clings to tire notion that after this
war the nations can unite to prevent—-by a
League of Peace—any repetition of such
a staggering outrage. The big man, who is
on a year’s furlough, reminds me of Quaker
Phineas in Uncle Tom’s impossible Cabin
ibee isn t wanted here, friend.” said that
worthy in silky tones, as he pushed the
slave-catcher over the side of a cliff. So
this most honest peacemonger talks gentlv
of America’s ways with spies. “\Ve don’t
them long- One who gave Germany
valuable information a short time ago was
—well, just taken out and shot.”
Infants in arms, the village parson chil-
dren at the Buster Brown period, old politi-
cians, odds and ends, and some journalists
were the guests of the Vaucluse Park
tiustees on Saturday afternoon. The Trust
had said Let ’em all come,” and they came
b> special steamer. The hosts laid in wait
at the wharf. Ihe trippers, bent on doing
the thing properly, brought copies 0 £
Charles Bertie’s interesting story about that
broth of a bhoy, llenry Brown Hayes. After
his free passage to Australia this hot-head
bought the estate from the trustee of the
late Captain Dennett, paying £93 plus fees
etc. Old Simeon Lord, a very early iden-
tity, signed the receipt.
The fact that Wentwprth, Australian
statesman and sometime rebel, bought and
rebuilt the house, and is alleged to have
drawn up the N. S. Wales Constitution in
one of the rooms, gives Vaucluse Park, now
the property of the public, a special inter-
est ; and Saturday’s quaint assemblage, after
scrambling for seats at a trestle table, with
an elbow in the middle that sliced off the
humble from the Elect, sat in pained silence
while the ancient history of the place was
champed over by Chosen Speakers round the
corner of the verandah. The angle merci-
fully stifled the groans of the very occa-
sional journalist in the party.
Muir Auld’s luck in selling £l5O worth
to the National Gallery is backed by merit.
“The Broken Vase” is full of feminine
charm, and the lady who surveys the damage
has youth, good looks and a pastel pink
gown that’s an artists dream in the clothing
department. The Art Society had its big
crush —private day—on Saturday afternoon.
The Challis House hat-show for the War
Chest, with Mrs. Claude Reading, Mrs.
Rankin and Mrs. Frank MacDonald in
charge, drew like beauty’s single hair. Mil-
linery this spring has a strong yellow tinge
and only needs a beak to look like a straw
canary. This color is so dominant that
brave women with putty-colored complexions
gaily embark in the mustard hat without a
quiver. As a side-line the tulle-trimmed
headgear will appeal to any poet who strays
to Randwick this season.
A South Coast man, who says he was a
member of the committee that paid the lady
her first fee, writes to tell me that Marie
Narelle got her professional name, not from
the bush township of Narellan, but from a
black sister of Cobargo who did odd jobs
about the Ryan homestead —Marie was
Molly Ryan in those days. Narelle Hobbes,
a S. Coast nurse now in France, got her
front name from the same unusual source,
this obliging South Coaster tells me.
But where the lubra got her name he doesn’t
mention, though he reckons she was years
and years older than Narellan.
Miss Soubeiran insists on paying her own
way to France. Before she left she handed
back the sum that had been collected by
ardent admirers to pay the expenses of seeing
to the distribution of France’s Day money.
The “You’re in Love” people at Her
Majesty’s are a dressy lot, with Maud Fane
as Georgiana, the dream-doll of the show,
who wears the wax-beauty’s low-necked frock
at any old time o’ day. She and Cecil Brad-
ley (whose figure is less willow-wand than
Maud’s) and Talleur Andrews get away
with the best vocal music. Andrews doesn't
look a Hercules after his recent illness, but
he’s the best male warbler we’ve heard in
light comedy of late. I fancy he had stiff
doses of the Royal Academy years ago.
The silvery-haired relict of Edward Hill,
of Point Piper (a brother was Richard
Hill, M.L.C.), started to enjoy her
ninety-sixth Spring a day or two back in her
native Sydney. “Aunt Mary” spends the
time when not knitting socks for them in
scanning for news of five fighting grand-
nephews, one of whom is under guard at
Karlsruhe.
’there’s a Lieut. W. Yates, just returned
to Sydney, who has had an unusual experi-
ence. lie enlisted in August. 1914, went to
Egypt in the Ist Battalion, and was at the
Landing on April 115. Long afterwards, at
Bulleeourt. when he had won his commission
and a Military Cross, a shell fragment re-
moved a piece of his frontal bone, and in
hospital he had the unique “privilege” of
examining his own brain in a mirror. The
flesh has grown over the cavity and hd is
otherwise all right now.
After watching the springtime mannequin
one can safely predict disaster for the home
dressmaker who rushes into stripes. The
-"•retched things are used like a box of tricks.
You plant your stripes in horizontal and
perpendicular plots, and thus they make their
own trimming. The sleeves may be zebra-
wise ; the corsage is t’other way round. Then,
with sly malice aforethought, the designer
works out the front of the skirt in stripes
that dive down to a sharp precipice. Talk of
Euclid !
The new dodge of sowing applique medal-
lions that look like painted flowers on to
the camisole is breaking forth on the spring
models. These have the fanciful blooms
tucked away on the corsage*, or running down
one side of the skirt. One hopes the
patient stitchers get a decent reward for
their trouble.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
** LTD
JEWELLERS.
QUALITY IN TABLE PLATE.
Hardy Bros. L.td. Spoons and Forks are Guaranteed to be
the Finest Quality Manufactured in England. Triple Plated
with Pure Silver on selected hard White Metal, the same
high standard as supplied for over Sixty years.
OAK CANTEEN
OF
SPOONS, FORKS AND CUTLERY.
“Old English” Pattern in Hardy
Bros.’ A 1 Plate and Rodgers’ Ivory-
handled Cutlery.
£l6 0 0 complete.
Five per cent, cash discount.
In Appearance and finish quite equal to solid silver.
Every piece stamped j HARDY AI | and guaranteed by
Hardy Bros. Etd.
SPOONS AND FORKS ARE SOLD TN ANY QUANTITY REQUIRED.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
13 HUNTER STREET.
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
TAKE AN ENSIGNETTE
on YOUR HOLIDAY TRIP
FOR ROLL FILMS Daylight Loading British=Made.
r
1
Q l
©
ii
The enjoyment
and interest of your
holiday will be added
to very considerably
if you take a Yest-
Pocket Ensignette
with you.
It is no trouble
to carry—can be put
in a man’s vest or
hip pocket or lady’s
handbag, and is ready
to use immediately,
as it opens into
focus in one move-
ment, and the pic-
ture can be snapped
in another.
It will last a
t tit* •» 111 “1.1111 1. j ds Lilt? uuuy
is made of rustless metal, the lens gives good definition, and the shutter gives Time and
Instantaneous Exposures.
No. 1 takes pictures 2*4 x IYz in Price 27/6
No. 2 takes pictures 3x2 in Price 35/-
Complete in Leather Carrjing Case with Book of Instruction.
Films to suit above: No. 1,9 d., No. 2, 1/1 per spool of 6 exposures.
Have Your Snapshots Developed at Harringtons’
It's annoying, after taking a snapshot that you may not be able to get again, to find
that it has been spoilt in development through some mistake or omission—all your
trouble has gone for nothing, and the pleasure that you looked forward to is turned to
disappointment.
This will not occur if you have them developed and printed at Harringtons’. We
make a specialty of developing and finishing amateurs’ negatives, and
GUARANTEE THE REST RESULTS POSSIBLE.
We have frequently been told by visitors to Sydney that, although they have had
photos printed in England and America, they have never had such good results as they
obtained from 11s.
Every negative receives expert attention, and we have the latest and most up-to-date
appliances for this class of work.
Send or bring your next batch of films or plates to us, to be developed; if you
do your own printing, let us do one print from each negative—it will give you a
standard to work for.
We welcome your inquiries. Send for complete catalogue if you live out of town —
it's free to any address.
lIP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
383 George St. 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
0
TLT7
il
th® Wmteir Etomhy
0
0)°
ra
Often imitated but never equalled.
EVERYONE who possesses a PIANOLA will tell yon that
the fascination of playing makes bedtime come too
soon; there are such vast fields of music to be explored,
and such illimitable possibilities of expressing your thoughts
and emotions through the wonderful devices provided. This
automatic, self-contained Piano offers the most engrossing of
recreations, relieves the mind from the depressing thoughts
that beset it during the day, and fills the home with cheerful-
ness.
THEN WHY GO OUT AT NIGHT? The “PIANOLA”
Piano provides homely, jolly entertainment that •does not
involve such extravagances as tickets and taxis, does not take
you from the cosy seclusion of your home out into the cold,
wintry nights.
Remember, too, it affords you pleasure not for one evening,
nor for one year, but for a lifetime. You feel actually the
need of some distraction the long dreary evenings; then why
not buy a “PIANOLA” Piano and provide entertainment for
now and many winters to come ?
The “PIANOLA” P iano is made, in a great variety of models
at prices to suit every home. Purchase terms can he suited to
the convenience of the buyer and a liberal allowance made on
your present piano. CALL and PLAY the “PIANOLA" in
our showrooms, and let us explain how easily you can hare it
installed in your home at once, or write for Catalog “B.”
The genuine “PIANOLA” can be obtained only in the follow-
ing world-famous Pianos —The Steinway, Aeolian Steck,
Aeolian Stroud, Aeolian and the English-made Aeolian Weber.
J thought it was only 9 o'clock!
Look, it is 12 p.m."
To the PIANOLA COMPANY
Please semd me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
showing how I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance gov can make on my present piano,
which is a
Bought about
Name , . .
Address
She
Co.Pty. Ltd. 384 GEORGE Si. SYDNEY.
rrmti
-«i
am*
■II
im
- m »
■ I 'flairs
959
le
LJ
U
=3
ts
TME CENTRE
for tmFworld's
. GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENTS j
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS.
’Aeolian"
Rec* Trade Mara


SR
SR
SR
SR
SUMMER HAT COMFORT
FOR MEN WHO DEMAND CHARACTER AND
ECONOMY IN WEARING APPAREL.
ct? I SOFT FELTS, cut edges, brims 2 J inches,
Fawn Steel, Slate and Light Grey, with 2-inch
Black Band. PRICES 12/6, 14/6
SR2. MEN’S STRAW BOATERS, smart medium
shapes, crowns 3£ and 3i inches, and brims 2}
inches. PRICES 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
Fitted with new grip leather. PRICES, 6/6, 7/6
SR3. MEN’S GENUINE SOUTH AMERICAN
PANAMAS, in the wider brims, 2i to 3 inches.
PRICES 21/*, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
SK4. MEN’S CORK-LINED HELMETS, light and
cool, perfectly ventilated; White, Fawn and Grey.
PRICE, with chin straps 10/6
SRS, MEN’S SOFT FELTS, worn up or down;
brims about 2i inches; Light Grey with Black
Bands, Fawn, Brown and Slate. PRICE 10/6
IFe Pay Carriage.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
Get this Wonderful Beauty Book FREE!
Home Beauty Course, including
Preparations, offered
This offer of a complete “course” of home
beauty treatment, coupled with a magnificent
Free Gift, will enable every lady reader to
gain without cost practically the same bene-
fits as would be secured by a personal visit
to an expensive Beauty Specialist. When it
is stated that the Free Gift includes a supply
of the wonderful “Cre-
tonic” Vanishing
Cream, that has
aroused so much excite-
ment in the world of
feminine activity, every
lady reader will natu-
rally be eager to accept
it and thus commence,
without loss of time,
exercises which will ef-
fect an astonishing im-
provement in even the
worst of complexions
and the roughest hands
and arms.
Delightfully simple
to use on every occa-
sion. it is never-failing in its results, and
equally suitable for everyone, no matter what
Liberal Samples of Cretonic Toilet
FREE to our Readers.
the present state of the complexion. What
impresses one as really marvellous is the ex-
quisite bloom of youth and beauty that is
brought into evidence with almost the first
application of Cretonic Vanishing Cream,
When the complexion is looking its worst,
when the skin appears dull, faded and almost
“lifeless,” one touch brings back all the
natural clearness and brilliancy.
Cretonic Hair and Toilet Preparations in-
L elude the following: Hair Massage 3/C. Fae e
I Cream 3/-, Tooth Paste 1/-, Shampoo Powders
f 3d. each or 2/6 per doz., Face Powder 3/-.
Medicinal and Toilet Soap 1/-. and can he
obtained through all Chemists and Stores, or
Post Free direct from the proprietors.
If you prefer to test one or all of these ex-
cellent preparations before purchasing a sup-
ply. samples, together with book, will be sent
on request by
THE CRETONIC CHEMICAL CO.,
Country Press Chambers,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Enclose 3d. for single samples, or Cd. for the
six. to cover cost of postage and packing, etc.
If book only required, enclose Id. I*
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, September 17, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie. —
The wedding of widower Norman Bayles
at All Saints’, St. Kilda, to the little Neil
widow, was a triumphal affair, decked with
white flowers. Tasmanian cousin Dave
Taylor hopped out of the gunners’ camp at
Maribyrnong and helped immaculately-
tailored Norman through with the job. The
auburn-haired bride, supported by Uncle
Bob Molesworth, who flew a monster green
orchid in his coat, proceshed up the aisle
after a posse of warbling choristers, headed
by a cross-bearer. Her osprey-wreathed
headpiece of light grey matched her ninon
draperies, which were kilted delicately into
flounces. The bridal bouquet of rare
orchids in white, pink and mauve was
donated by the Malvern Horticultural
Society, on which she smiles as president.
The little widow ignored convention with a
brace of bridesmaids ( 10-yeai’-old daughter
Ayliffe and niece Maroa Molesworth) in
white muslin frills and blue sashes.
Only the cream of the social world was
called to the champagne frivol hostessed by
the bride’s mother, Mrs. E. James. The
Miller dame, upholstered in black velvet,
wore all the dignity of a new knight’s missus.
The W. J. T. Clarke matron aired the latest
Queen Mary toque. Daughter Roma, look-
ing like a gay parraket in pale yellow fixings
streaked with emerald green, fluttered about.
The wealthy Agnew widow (Tas.) wore a
costly ermine cape and an exciting toque.
The bride’s mother, all silk and Georgette,
carried a pink and black violet posy ; so did
daughter Fannie Molesworth, in pale grey
tailorings. The handsome Bayles sisters
came with cousin Dave Taylor’s sister —a
delighful vision in blue silk and chiffon.
Dreadful storms happened on the Ameri-
can mailboat when Melba and Lady Susan
boarded it at a Maoriland port. Only one
stateroom had been reserved for the illustrious
travellers, and they had to face the problem
of getting themselves and their two maids
into one cabin during the frocking process.
The packed liner steamed out with the dis-
cussion still raging and stewards scudding
for shelter. There has been no despatch yet
explaining the issue.
The exodus of the racing people has
started. Mrs. Eric Connolly and Mrs.
Etheridge have already made tracks for
Sydney. They will go to Medlow for a rest
before the Randwiek meeting.
Any fashionable draper’s window now looks
like a model dairy, for the latest gowns and
hats are all cream or butter color. Choose
any material you like, but you must have
cream or butter or yolk-of-egg tints to be
fashionable.
A new Italian Club —the Cadorna —is to be
opened on September 20, Italian National
Day. There will be an inauguration banquet
at the Cafe Francaise and a dance in the
evening. Incidentally, the singing Italians
have been spreading the knowledge of how to
make real spaghetti. The sacred rite runs
off with two hours.
The Hyams’ patriotic dance (labelled “The
Ball Australian”) is due at St. Kilda Town
Hall on Tuesday, October 2. Lady Helen
and Lady Stanley smile upon it. Benefici-
aries, the Repatriation Fund and the St.
Kilda Red Ci’oss.
Senator Pearce’s family are bound for
Albany (W.A.) for the summer. They are
building a cottage there for the two boys to
tramp in and out of while the two girls tidy
up.
Handsome Reggie Bloomfield, who has
been nursing a Papuan rubber plantation,
returned last month to say that the place
threatens to make its owners rubber princes.
Reggie has now gone back, and partner
Rupert Clarke will follow later. Mrs. Bloom-
field awaits the fortune in a Melbourne
Mansions flat.
There has been a clearance of one little
section of Russians from our midst. Mrs.
Grebin, appointed lec-turess at the Univer-
sity, and Max Selinsky, the violinist who
was given a job at the University Conserva-
torium, have left for America without getting
in any ’Varsity work at all. The “Chernies”
have gone, also. Mrs. Grebin’s husband flew
off as far as Maoriland some weeks before on
his way to America.
The Rutter Clarkes have sold Merriwa,
their Dutch-gardened palace at Toorak. Mrs.
Clarke (she was a Sargood. you know) found
the roomy place desolate w’ith their elder
hope in his third year of trench life and the*
younger waiting for his final leave.
The Lyceum Club is planning to move in
June from its eagle’s nest at the corner of
the Block to the sixth floor of the Audi-
torium. A series of lectures is to be started
soon.
Ragstore dances are raging. Myers’s
girls led off; then came Buckley’s; now the
Coliseum damsels are arranging a ball in
aid of the Mayoress’s Patriotic League. St.
Kilda Town Hall, September 26.
Now that John McWhae’s family is
married into the Western District,, it seems
only in keeping that he should himself, do
something in the landed-proprietor line,
wherefore nobody will be surprised to learn
that he has bought Burnbrae, a. neat little
squattage near Penshurst. Not much to
look at as a landscape, but worth a second
glance when it comes to writing a cheque
against a few acres of it. Burnbrae, which
used to belong to the late Bill Gubbins,
descended to Gubbins, of Ripple Vale. Lat-
terly Leslie Murray had it.
Mrs. Foster and Mrs. Pearce record what
they fondly regard as a victory. They have
succeeded in getting club-toed boots sup-
plied to Billjim. This follows a victory over
the cotton socks that used to be included
in the kits. Woollen socks only are sup-
plied now. But if they had asked Billjim
(I don’t mean the Billjim who has an office
or staff job, but the one who has done a
bit of the real thing) they would have been
told nine times out of ten that the club toe
won’t be missed if the Department will
supply them with handkerchiefs. It is a
solemn fact that soldiers are still treated as
women gaol-prisoners were until recently.
Even in France, where hankies are in con-
stant demand, and the chance of purchasing
them is very small, “wipes” are not issued.
Captain Neville, youngest hope of the
Simon Frasers, has been wounded and in-
valided to England. His friend Sid Palmer
has been dangerously wounded. The two boys
left here together and went the round of a
whirl of fashionable house-dances given in
their honor just before they sailed. It isn’t
so long ago.
Lieut. Cecil Pybus Cooke, lately killed in
action, was son of Herbert Cooke, of Young
(N.S.W.), and nephew of Winter Cooke,
who sat in the Vic. Upper House for many
years, wore a mouocle and only managed to
look like a legislator. Young Cooke was a
fine type of Billjim and passed through Gee-
long Grammar School, thence to Trinity,
Cambridge, and was an oarsman of some
repute. His pretty sister Evelyn is con-
nected with the Book Lovers’ Library.
Colonel Syd Sands is in hospital, seriously
ill. His wife has just got the two youngsters
over from Sydney and taken a house on the
South Yarra hill.
A batch of 50 nurses from Caulfield base
left for Bombay recently. The Australian
Red Cross (Lady Helen’s section) has voted
£lOO for the Army Nurses’ Club at Bombay
because of the great hospitality it has shown
to our girls.
Captain and Mrs. Henry Harper are
mighty proud of their tall soldier son Colin.
When he left here he was a youngster not
yet 20, but standing well over 6ft. in his socks
and weighing 33st. He served at Port
Phillip Heads during the whole of 1916 as
a sapper. At the end of the year he went
to England—one of the young non.-coms.
picked out by request of the War Office. He
is now being, finished off for France in an
engineers’ officers’ school.
When the mail left, Sister Mary Loughron,
of Queen Alexandra’s Nursing Service, whose
Royal Red Cross was in the last Birthday
list, was spending a fortnight’s holiday in
London. Her Melbourne hospital pals will
be glad to know that she has climbed as high
as acting matron, and, as such, crossed to
Blighty as guest of the King, by whom she
was invested with the Cross a week or so
later.
Captain Leopold Levy, one of the five-
dozen A.I.F. officers of his rank who have
succeeded in sticking it out for 1000 days’
active service, belongs to the Hawthorn tribe
which has done so much, with saekbut,
shawm and psaltery, in the cause of charity.
The Lyric orchestra was founded by papa
Charles Levy nearly a quarter-century ago,
and has been hon.-conducted by him ever
since, with the family, including Captain
Leopold, all trying to live up to dad’s repu-
tation.
The late Matthew Henry Davies left some
good 100 p.c. soldier stuff behind him. Pri-
vate Henry Davies, after getting safely
through Gallipoli, was reported missing last
year, and there has been no word of him
since. Sergeant Arnold Davies went to
Papua early, and is still there. The third
son, Cecil, has been gone for 12 months, and
is now in France. Their mother is doing her
bit by keeping the family law-office tidy
until the survivors return.
Arthur Dodd, whose dad is sharebroker
11. A. Dodd, of the Stock Exchange, is in
France, recovering from a serious wound,
with the following record behind him : Mel-
bourne —1 lieutenancy in the b A.;
lipoli—l wound, 1 order of the Servian \\ hue
Eagle, 1 captaincy ; France —1 wound, I Mili-
tary Cross. 1 majority, 1 23rd birthday.
Major Dodd was in the Royal Bank when
the Hun obtruded into his young life.
The Kent Hughes men are adding to
the family records. Billy, Rhodes Scholar
and Military Cross winner, is now a major at
22. His medical dad has just cabled to say
he has been made surgeon-in-chief to the
Anglo-Russian Hospital at Petrograd, the
City of Excitement.
i lid I mention that Lieut. Stewart Dawson,
the heavily-gilded son of jeweller Dawson,
has been awarded a decoration for services
in East Africa? Brother Percy is still drill-
ing in England. The two were conspicuous
Blockers in the days before the war.
Dame Adelaide’s tablets :
A five days’ Show, with the Munro Fergusons’ inci-
dental visit, has brightened us up this week. The
official feed on Wednesday was kept in order by
vice-president R. T. Melrose, R. 11. Crawford, the
president, being still on the sick list.
Visits to the Keswick and Torrens Park Hospitals
and the Mitcham camp began the Munro Fergusons’
outings, with a reception at Government House on
Wednesday evening. Red Cross Button Day was
on Friday and, with the exception of Australia Day,
was almost a record for the money it brought in
nearly £4OOO. In the evening a Red Cross concert,
arranged by Clara Serena, filled the Queen’s Hall.
Serena, in filmy ninon whose color was something
between apricot and orange, looked and sang her
best, and got numerous encores and heaps of flowers.
In the Galway-Munro Ferguson party were Mrs. 11.
11. Dutton and Miss d’Erlanger.
The State-school children have just taken stock
of their patriotic efforts and find that during the
past two years they have raised £12,000; and since
June last, nearly £ 2900. Over £5OOO has been
paid to the Repatriation Fund, £9”O to the French
and British Red Cross, £5OO to the League of Loyal
Women for Trench Comforts and Soldiers’ Christmas
Boxes, and £395 to the Tobacco Fund. The move-
ment began in the smallest way in 1915, when half
a dozen teachers suggested that it would be a fine
thing to suggest to the children to raise funds for
a motor-kitchen.
In the last week or two a good many S. Austra-
lians have filtered back from England, via America,
amongst them Mrs. 11. S. Newland, whose doctor-
husband is still at war work; Dr. Evelyn O'Leary,
who has been with a Red Cross unit in Roumania ;
and Lieut. Colin Duncan, who has left two brothers
at the Front while he recovers from the effects of
Hun gas.
The Cheer-Up Gift Day, which was planned by the
late Mrs. F. W. Stock, and brought a good many
gifts of cash and kind to the Hut, coincided with
the opening of a new wing and a rest-room. The
wing was the gift of the' northern township of
Petersburg, and the rest-room was fitted and fur-
nished by W. A. Duncan and his sister. The Hut,
which estimates its expenses at £lOO or more per
week, has entertained about 50,000 men since it was
opened.
There is wrath at Millicent, in the south-east,
where the district Bumbles, after advertising for
a council clerk at £l7O per annum and announcing
that preference would be given to returned soldiers,
turned down 15 of them and appointed a local civi-
lian. A special meeting of ratepayers expressed its
appropriate disgust.
The will of the late Mrs. F. W. Stock has been
sworn at £45,000.
11l health has compelled W. R. Pybus to resign
his post of honorary city organist. He is one of our
oldest musical institutions.
Mrs. Cussen and Mrs. Ross Soden are
already working up their part of the big fete
which is to surge over the Cricket Club
grounds for one October -week. They are
running a bridge party of 50 tables at
Grong Grong on September 25. and they beg
donations of home-made jams and sweets
for the stall. The big show* is to boost the
Repatriation Funds.
At a Cafe Chantant at the Australia on
Saturday afternoon, September 29, Mrs.
Cyril Lansell, Mrs. Hidgcock, Mrs. Gillespie
and Mrs. Clark Morgan will feed the multi-
tude for the good of the Romanby Snowball
League, the Soldiers’ Comforts Fund and the
Y.M.C.A.
The A.A.A. (sounds like an impatient
deaf man, doesn’t it?) Exhibition of pictures
was opened in the Athemeum last week by
Governor Stanley, who made a speech and
bought a McLelland sketch and a canvas
by Norman McGeorge. McGeorge’s stuff
was outed by judge Meldrum at the Y.A.S.
recently, so the artist is feeling much better.
The picture of the show, according to intense
critics, is a portrait by H. B. Harrison. The
trustees of the Gallery are hovering round
the painted lady, who is Miss Hurry, a sheep-
wealthy young person who dabbles in art
herself and drives her own car between Kyne-
ton and her studio in town. H. B. Harrison’s
smaller sketches were snapped up and
spotted with red on the first day, Professor
Spencer adding one more to his collection of
Harrison head studies. The artist, a busy
young newspaper man who hails from
Bananaland, makes art his hobby and is
always longing for a little more spare time
in which to pursue it.
The G.-G. has been busy with his cheque-
book at the Lindsay Exhibition. His Ex.
has the billiard-room at Federal Government
House lined with originals of Bulletin
cartoons by Lindsay and Low. Governor
Stanley also bought a Norman Lindsay pic-
ture, and Melba went the rounds with foun-
tain-pen and cheque-book before she left
Melbourne.
Governor Stanley was down for the job
of discovering and opening the Arts and
Crafts Exhibition on the top floor of Clyde
House. He arrived wearing hot socks—
black with pale blue hoops, and accompanied
by trusty aide Conant. Baldwin Spencer,
very pink and pleased, stood on the mat
welcomin’ ’im in. Ilis Ex. made a hasty in-
spection of tjie array of artful and crafty
knick-knacks and then declared the show
open, remarking that it would have been just
as much open and would have remained open
whether he had declared it so or not. There
are times when his Ex. seems painfully con-
scious of the futility of some of his jobs.
Sassiety, which is not usually interested in
art, has been flocking to the Artists’ Show
to view Dora Wilson’s pastel. “The Compleat
Bachelor,” the model for the compleat one
being none other than the indispensable
Tommy Cochrane. Tommy is depicted wear-
ing an angelic smile and characteristic tie.
shirt and hat, which the artist portrays with
becoming reverence.
A show is promised in October of trays,
bowls and lamps made from Australian woods
and other local materials by an unknown
Atkinson, of Westralia. Melba has one of
the trays and almost sings about the design.
Mrs. Atkinson, a charming Westralian, is
in Melbourne, and she has boomed a few
samples of the work of her modest and indus-
trious husband, who took up this form of
artistry as a hobby. The lamps and other things
are in Bernard's showrooms. The designs
are original and the craft work is solid
and useful. A linn proposes “standardising”
some of the exhibits for kindergarten use.
Atkinson uses anything that comes to his
hand. His wife carries a peggy-bag that the
Arts and Crafts people threw handsprings
round. Explanation: “The leather was an
old cast-off piece. My husband stamped it,
manufactured the dye for it and made the
decorative clasp from an old kerosene tin—
then clamped it with copper rivets.”
When Melba was in Adelaide staying with
the vice-regal Galways they went to hear
the Fisk 'Singers. Professor White, the
old colored manager, came out in a nervous
way and stammered through a grateful
speech of thanks for the visit. It was a
great honor, he said, to have his Royal
Highness and Madame Melba with them.
Evidently he couldn’t “place” Lady Galway,
so she was left out of the catalogue.
In “Outcast” Ivathlene Macdonell defies
the dress conventions by wearing flaming
red cloth with her aggressively ginger hair.
.She also wears the wrong tone of pink chif-
fon wflth the same vivid thatch. In her
palmy flatting days, when the wowser Wal-
dron is “flaunting” her, and likes to see
her “the best-dressed woman in the restau-
rant,” she has a great frocking chance but
misses it. The lady is thinly slender and
has the ruddy locks and creamy white skin
that made a Melbourne beauty famous; but
she has not the style or color sense. Local
dress gossips remember some of the Other
Lady's theatre-goings. Once she appeared
in a box in a mere shred of a black evening
gown which was cut away far south. Her
scarlet locks -were enclosed in a jet avia-
tor’s cap. Another time she floated in a
gold-cloth sheath, with a sea-green tulle
sash fastened butterfly-fashion to her shoul-
ders. It is said that the miguonette colors
of the Theatre Royal decorative scheme
were ordered to suit her coloring.
“Mr. Manhattan,"’ at Her Majesty’s,
scored the usual first-night house. Mrs.
Russell Clarke had a box, and spread pinky
lace plumage in the centre. The Geoffrey
Byrnes took a string of guests on from a
dinner party and filled a pen with them.
Mrs. Geoff wore very short baby-sleeves in
her pale blue gown and disturbed the other
smart frockers who thought they were up
to the minute with no-sleeves-at-all. Dr.
Elvins hosted a selfish all-men box-party.
Mrs. Tallis was modestly stalled.
Carrie Moore got a thunderous reception.
The much plumper Carrie has not appeared
on a J.C.W. stage since she left “The Merry
Widow” years ago in Sydney at the height
of its boom. The impetuous lady got
married in the afternoon, appeared at the
evening performance and then departed for
her honeymoon. She hurt the feelings of
old friend J.C.W. acutely, and he never
forgave her. Her little hurried understudy
spent all next morning on the J.C.W. house
terrace going through scenes and convincing
the old chief that she could fill the bill.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


wm
i * lUi :
c %
2i§*
Sgfegp
**Af
gggl J*.
m
i
fill
JSSIff
v Y iff!it/v: /;v/ f&m >m ry-\ ,m fl if §
mt
* ©r 3
smarn
mm
r/
••V
US
1
X
>,
1
m
m
% •%
x ■ %■%
Gen Cadorna
>*- :£
K sjga
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Cadorna is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the heme.
The complete set, consisting of M. Venizelos, Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir Douglas
Haig, Lieut.-General Sir W. Bird wood, General Sir W. Robertson, General Foch, General
Cadorna, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, Peter L, General Sarrail, General Brussiloff, General
Russky, will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or \7 penny (Commonwealth)
stamps/ As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
- '
Wa£c>crri/>
>-
0/ tfcfcoZc/i
'WaJocm <f "
mwz.
m
mm
WMMmm.
'/fa/sy/S//}.
mm.
isaf V
WATSOA
T * C
%
j.
J
%
%
%
c
i
%
¥
%%%
i
i
/// *////7^ l


MaKe Your Cough Mixture
and Save Money.
PRAISE from Mr. WILLIAM HOLMAN, Sen., Father of the
Premier of N.S.W.
The cost of cough mixture usually amounts to a considerable in th„
family; but it need not necessarily do so, as anyone can in a few
fine a quality cough, cold and sore throat remedy as money can huv An thnf ho® f s
be done to make a pint of mixture is to obtain a bottle of Heenzo'
and dilute it with water and sweeten according to easy directions mintPii nnfhi
A pint of ordinary remedies would cost at least H S (hS P,l laibe , L
only 2s. (by post 2s. 3d.). leenzo (Mean s Essence) costs
Proof of the efficacy of the mixture made from Heenzo . ,
letters written by over 5000 users. Mr Win Holman " ea ?>!LJ'® sence ') is found in
at the Government Conservatorium of Music and father ’of ?he KemierV
Wales, was so pleased with Heenzo (Hean’s Essence) that he wrfte the following letTer
efie2. ha V % *«•**-'
pharynx and similar complaints—bronchitis, for example.” animation of the
HEENZO (Hean’s Essence) is obtainable at all reliable Chemists and
Grocers, or direct from G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
V
King
fjwigeW
WHISKS'
TheTOP-NOlCH'Scotch
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
PRACTICE MAKES THE MASTER,
COUNTRY BARBER (to Mr. Skinner ): “If yer
don't mind, boss, Ell set this ’ere ’pren-
tice ter shave 'n' cut yer. ’E's such a
clumsy brute with the razor that I
wanter give ’im all the practice I can."
‘‘Bung” : While shepherding once on the
Bibbenluke Plains (N.S.W.) I observed a curious,
instance of prematernal instinct. A young lamb bad
been lost from the flock and, as lambs always do,
had followed the first moving thing encountered,
which in this case was a mob of cattle. A young
heifer in the herd, about to have her first calf, took
up with the wanderer, separated herself from the
mob, and when discovered was diligently guarding
ba-ba from attack by crows. On the youngster
being returned to its flock the heifer displayed the
usual distress of a cow deprived of her che-ild and,
lowing mournfully, spent hours running up and
down alongside the fence that parted her from the
sheep-run.
* * * *
"O. Regan”: I have it on the authority of
an English naturalist that a Papuan spider manu-
factures a web large and strong enough to be used
by the local cannibal as a fishing-net. The black
selects a long bamboo, forms a loop in it by tying
the top some distance down the stem, places the
frame where the spiders are most numerous, returns
in a day or two and finds the net is complete.
Alleged that this receptacle is strong enough to lift
a 21b. fish from the water. Is this gospel or a
leg pull ?
‘‘Leo Lear”: Late Abo. pars, have men-
tioned several ’roos with peculiar features in the
tail department. Let me add two more. First, the whip-
tail, who hangs out in the hilly districts of coastal
Bananaland and paces it over the rocks like a loco
on a down grade. He is about 3ft. low, but has
a tail of abnoiinal length tapering to a point. Whip-
tails are one of the most beautiful of the tribe
(another name for them is pretty-face),' and make
fine pets, though they usually answer the call of
the wild in a couple of years. Xo. 2 I’ve only met
in the gorges of N.E. Victoria. This is the small
rock wallaby, and with the exception of the tree
’roo of North Queensland I back him to climb against
any hopper extant. This fellow’s tail ends in a
bunch of fur exactly like a fox’s. A favorite haunt
of the species is the kurrajong top. Among the
boulders, chasms and cliffs of the Upper Murray,
they frolic where a human would need ladders,
bridges and whisky—especially whisky.
* *
‘‘< ’hink": Those members of the Aus-
tralian family of small woodland birds, the flyeaters
(G cry gone), who hang out in the Far North have a
confirmed habit of placing their dainty, domed nests
in close proximity to the papery homesteads of the
feiocious yellow wasps. Why? The insects are not
likely to protect the little birds from bigger ones,
and there is no fear from snakes in such situations.
But a more curious habit is that possessed by juven-
ile members of the black-throated flyeater tribe
( Gen/gone personata). These babes each have four
peculiar head-plumes, and when anyone looks into
the nest these plumes wave like so many caterpillar
tails. In Victoria I’ve known young crested bell-
biids play much the same trick, keeping their eves
tightly closed while on the job, but when I sneaked
on them quietly an hour later they w'ere wide-awake.
In a trice, however, the bright eyes closed again, and
the uncanny caterpillar mimicry broke out afresh.
“Scfubthumper” : “C.J.W.” (B. 30/8/T7)
has evidently not been far West, or he wouldn’t
twaddle about kookaburras and curlews possessing
the loudest bird voice in Australia. The brolga can
drown half a dozen of these fowls; I have heard
him over a distance of nearly three miles. The
diumming of the emu, also, can be heard much
farther than the cackle of the curlew or kooka.
Captain : On a visit to Morobe, one of
our newly-acquired outposts on the North Coast of
New Guinea, I took a native boy from New Britain
who’d been long from home to see his tribe. The
night we landed he returned aboard in great tribula-
tion and weeping a perisher. “Me go Tonga see
my poppa,” he explained. “My poppa one big fella
luluai [chief 1. Me lookem, he no stop longa place
belong me. Me talkem plenty longa brother belong
me. He say poppa stop longa calabush [gaol]. Me
go longa calabush, talk longa poppa. Poppa he bin
catchem pig one time. He come back, he findem
Mary [woman] belong him longa other fella. Poppa
cross too much. He fightem other fella plenty
strong; he fightem head belong other fella with back
belong tommyhawk. Poppa he no mean other fella
go finish. Tommyhawk belong poppa no good, tommy-
hawk he slip, edge belong him stay head belong
other fella, he go finish plenty too much. Poppa
cry, sorry too much. Police boy catch poppa.
Poppa stay along calabush plenty fella moon.”
Poppa’s luck was out 1
“Merrigal”: Though it is well-established
that, by Nature’s method or by artificial means, the
standard time for hatching an emu chick is eight
weeks, there are instances in which seven weeks
have sufficed. Also, the French authority Oustalet
records a delivery after nine weeks, but that little
lot was stillborn. In the breeding season, which is
from April to November, an egg is laid on alter-
nate days, and when the last has been bedded down
the buck bird takes first sit, the missus not helping
until the second week, when, and for two or three
weeks following, she does duty for an hour or two
each evening. Thereafter until the family comes to
light the old man is sole caretaker. For several
weeks after the birth both parents keep their lamps
on the brood, and then dad takes charge again as
leader on foraging expeditions, mum acting as
whipper-in. Seven to 11 eggs constitute a batch.
Mhen there are more probably an extra performer
has been on the job.
SOCIETY GOSSIP.
SHE (superciliously): “I DON'T think."
HE ( sarcastically): “WOT don't yer think?"
SHE ( scornfully): “NOTHINK.”
“Talapousi”: A pitying Bulletin writer
lately described the horrible living conditions of the
coolies on Fijian plantations. [ showed it to a
woman who knows Fiji, and ventured the opinion
that we had no squalor like that in Australia. Her
scornful reply: “Then you don’t know your own
country! In Darwin I saw white women living in
humpies made of anything from branches of trees to
old canvas sacks, with earth for their floor. They
cooked out in the open, under the glare of a pitiless
•sun, while our coolies are provided with covered
cook-houses. I have seen people housed, in your
Northern Territory, in such places as the worst of us
would blush to put our coolie servants into.”
* * * *
“Wart”: One of the fairy tales I learnt
was that the humming-bird is the only winged
creature that can fly backwards. I have lately been
watching a number of honey-pickers feeding—very
noisy and very tame they were, too. There were
three species, the crescent or Tasmanian honev-eater,
white-headed honey-eater, and spinebill, sometimes
known as the painter. The two first-men-
tioned cling on to the flowers in all sorts
of quaint positions; but the painter
hovered gracefully in front of one of the
large honey-colored cups sipping the sweet-
ness through his long bill. While hovering
the tail is spread out as a fan, showing
plainly the white bordering of feathers, and
he can back-pedal as well as any humming-
bird on the track. He is rather a hand-
some bird, with a black head, chestnut
back, grey rump, white chest and a long
curved spine-like bill. He usually sets up
housekeeping in the top of a sick ti-tree,
building a neat cup-shaped nest of moss,
which he lines with feathers. In North
Queensland I was introduced to a tropical
relation of the spinebill—the prettily-named
sunbird. A gorgeous little chap he is,
and he too knows all the hovering and back-
pedalling tricks. To see half a dozen of
these jewels-on-the-wing feeding on the yellow hibis-
cus flowers or the scarlet blossoms of the flame-tree
is worth a journey.
“Agricola”: Re bone-chewing by stock.
Hilda Kincaid, M.Se., working with Prof. Osborne
of Melbourne University, did very valuable work on
the bio-chemical significance of phosphorus and the
mineral contents of Australian grasses, and showed
then serious deficiencies. Where bone-chewing is
prevalent the grass is lacking in minerals, especially
phosphoric acid and lime. “Larrikin” (B. 30/8/’l7)
says that it is lime that is needed. In the Wimmera
it is not lime, but phosphorus that is short. If
fodder is deficient in phosphate of lime, stock will
chew the bones of any defunct animal, even those of
the fox. If stock go after dead rabbit the liek
should have superphosphate added to it. Such lick
is a big help ; but the proper course is to feed the
grass and let Nature serve up the bullock’s green
breakfast.
“Wandi": An ugly-looking thing in
Moloch horridus, variously called horned dragon,
spiky lizard and thorny devil, which inhabits the
northern parts of Australia. It is thick and stumpy
in form, with a spotted, yellowish body covered with
lumps and spines and prickles. Its spiny legs arc
armed with strong claws and its head is decorated
with boras. Its fearsome appearance, however, alto-
gether belies its nature. It is as harmless and in-
offensive as a little gecko and friendly in disposi-
tion. Its frightful look, like that of the frilled
lizard, is its principal defence against natural foes.
If forewarned, it will hurriedly bury itself in the
sand rather than argue with a Quaker. Some people
keep it as a pet, allowing it to feed about the
garden paths and beds, where it picks up the small
black ants with its slender tongue. Moloch is a good
servant where ants are troublesome.
BE CAREFUL OF MATILDA.
REV. ROWLEY : "Mrs. Rowley has a blouse
and skirt for Tilly ”
NUMULGA JOE: “Baal gibit Tilly Miss
Rowley's short-phella skirt —showem too
much longa leg, too plurry cheeky-look-
in'!"
“Wingy”: “Peg Leg’s” stingaree with
eight young ’uns is no size. In Port Hacking River,
National Park (N.S.W.), I met a Mrs. Stinga who
had seven sets of twins. Yet another, caught in the
same place, had 12 infants. I have never known a
lady of the species to have an odd number of young
’uns.
(Continued on page 24J
THE ALLISONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Roof and rafter and window and door
Totter and tumble in slow decay ;
The house by the creek is a house no more,
For the Allison folk have gone away.
Kept back no more by the hands of men,
Though, here and there, bare tracts there be,
The bush has come to its own again,
Little by little and tree by tree.
Free-footed winds through the doorways pass,
Whispering much in a guarded tone;
Plovers call in the knee-deep grass
That grows right up to the threshold stone.
Silence, watching the years, has kept
Vigil here with a muted tongue,
Since over yon threshold-stone they stept,
Man and woman, and old and young.
Brown-armed women and bearded men,
Love and labor and grief and mirth—
Harvester Time has reaped since then
Crop and crop from the teeming earth !
Nights there were when these rafters rang,
Echoing song till the break of day,
Ceasing not till the dawnlights sprang,
Sudden and red, on the mists of grey.
Quick to answer to mateship's call—
That was ever the Allison mould ;
Drinkers, fighters and lovers all;
Fists of iron and hearts of gold. •
Hot in anger and loyal in love—
That was ever the Allison way;
Kith of the hawk and kin of the dove,
Wild and handsome, and bold and gay.
Rovers, drovers and horsemen born,
Standing their ground when others ran ;
Laughing the law, at times, to scorn,
Fighting the squ u tters, man to man.
Fronting ever with even face
Drought and danger, and care and need;
Firm in the saddle and first in the race —■
That was ever the Allison breed.
Known and named were the Allison girls,
Far and near through the country round,
Some with the noon-gold in their curls,
Some with the dark of the midnight crowned.
Dashing riders and dancers all,
Bonnie of body' and clean of mind,
Quick to answer at pity’s call—
That was ever the Allison kind.
Tinged and softened with sweet romance,
Back in the past they rise again,
Allison girls at race and dance
Queening it over the hearts of men.
Slim and stalwart, and sweet and bold,
Mother and maid, and man and boy!
Shadows move where they moved of old,
Toiled and sorrowed and had their joy.
Part of the past is all their love,
All the light of their fires is dead !
Kith of the hawk and kin of the dove —
Dove and hawk in the dark have fled !
Here, where the winds blow brave and blithe.
Tossing and turning each sapling-top,
Harvester Time has swung his scythe,
Cleared his swath and reaped his crop.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Murdoch’s Panamas
at Pre-War Prices.
That sounds good—doesn’t it? Here’s the
story in brief: Shipping difficulties caused
stacks of Panamas to be left on the hands of
the South American Manufacturers —our
buyer whipped in with a spot-cash offer for
prompt shipment, which was accepted.
Genuine Native
Panamas.
They are here now, right at the tick of the
opening of the season—quality Panamas that
will keep you cool and comfy—nice, creamy
bleach, even plait—neatly trimmed with
black silk bands and sweat leathers. These
quality Panamas, in the latest styles and
brim widths, we are offering at pre-war
prices.
1
GET A MURDOCH PANAMA—NOW.
Send your order along to Desk R if you can’t call.
ALL PANAMAS POST FREE.
Smart
Stylish
Panamas.
2’-, 24-, 25-inch
brims,
12/6
Cross-
Country
Panamas.
Strong wearers ;
cool, shady brims—
2f, 3, 3| inches,
21/-
Smart
City
Panamas.
Popular brim
widths —2} and
inches,
22/6
Superior
Quality
Panamas.
Smart and stylish
— 2\- and 21-incii
brims,
25/-
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney
“COMPLETE OUTFITTERS FOR MEN AND BOYS.”
NORTH
BRITISH
(JJNCHE
Tyres
0
%
%
'
SS
V«f
it/
i
smithes
JULIUS
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
mm
"The Tyres that
are Superior”
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WILLIAM CROSBY & CO.,
Wholesale Agents for
New South Wales.
20 Loftus Street, Sydney.
HERE IS THE ANSWER
To You, Sheep Men, who have been asKing( for a IWO-STAND PORTABLE
SHEARING PLANT, fitted with a HEAVY DUTY ENGINE.
The Power-Strength 8 Endurance
of this Outfit is Apparent.
Every part is built to stand far more
than required, which ensures long life
and small replacements. It has the
endurance to stand the hardest knocks
about the station, and will give long
years of satisfactory service.
THE ENGINE
is full • 3-brake-horsepower. It is
fitted with force fuel pumps, has
extra liner of special high-quality
steel in the cylinder. It has lock-
valve system, removable bearings,
speed regulator and other attach-
ments which ensure ease of
operation and economy of fuel
consumption. A large water-tank
is attached for rapid cooling. The
entire plant is unconditionally
guaranteed to give satisfaction.
Semi-Portable, £80; Portable, £9O.
Simplicity and convenience of operation is shown in
every line of its design. It contains every requirement
and convenience for shearing sheep rapidly and with
ease. The plant can be rolled anywhere and put to
work at once. After shearing is finished the machines
can be instantly removed, leaving the portable 3-horse-
power engine for any other work.
THE MACH I NES
consist of two units, complete with the latest
Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces, which have created
an unequalled reputation throughout Australia
for excellent work and extremely low cost of
upkeep. The grinder is complete with discs,
clamps, emery, glue, etc. All extras in the way
of duplicates, oilers, brushes, screwdrivers, etc.,
are included. After shearing is finished the
machines can be instantly removed, leaving the
3-horse portable engine for other work. Below
is shown the engine driving our sliding-top saw-
bench, which can be supplied, complete with
24in. saw r , for £l4. We also illustrate the
engine didving our 84in. rising-mouth, safety-
reversing-gear chaffcutter, which can be supplied
complete for £l6.
But Stocks are not Unlimited, and Orders are Coming in Fast.
WE CAN MAKE IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
We Suggest You Write To-day.
Cooper Engineering Company Ltd.,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY
486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Clark 8 Fauset, Brisbane; W. Hart 8 Sons, Launceston; Sidney Williams 8 Co., Rockhampton; Geo. P Harris Scarfe BCo Perth;
Australasian Implement 8 H. F. Co., Adelaide; New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Co. Ltd., Rockhampton, Townsville and Hulhenden.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores, readier recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. m
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
at
tin
Throat ay;
ml
sir
UJHOO-*
r?
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Disorders
of Digestion.
Catarrhal, Fermentative, Ulcerative.
Angler’s Emulsion exercises soothing, lubricating,
antifermentative effects throughout the entire digestive
tract. That is why it is so valuable in affections of the
stomach and intestines. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, fermentation,
catarrh, ulceration. It restores tone to all the digestive
functions and it promotes normal healthy action of the
bowels. Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-four years, it has proved its value in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
Send name and address, 4d. postage and ...
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD.! Clarence St . Sydney N^W.
STOMACH DRUGGING IS
DANGEROUS.
DOCTORS NOW ~ADVISE MAGNESIA.
Just how dangerous it is to indiscrimi-
nately dose the stomach with drugs ana
medicines is often not realised until too late.
It seems so simple to swallow a dose ot
some special mixture or to take tablets ot
pepsin, etc., after meals, and the folly 01
this drugging is not apparent until, perhaps,
years afterwards. Regrets are then unavail-
ing ; it is in the early stages, when indiges-
tion, dyspepsia, heartburn, flatulence, etc.,
indicate excessive acidity the stomach ana
fermentation of the food contents, that pre-
caution should be taken. Drugs are unsmt-
able and often dangerous —they have little
or no influence upon the harmful acid, ana
that is why doctors are discarding them ana
advising sufferers from digestive and stomacii
trouble to get rid of the dangerous acid anu
keep the food contents bland and sweet t>,
taking a little bisurated magnesia i.nsteaa.
Bisurated magnesia is an antacid, which ca
readily be obtained from the chemist, it 1
practically tasteless, and half a teaspooniu
taken in a little warm or cold _ water atte
meals will usually be found quite sufiicien
to instantly neutralise excessive acidity
the stomach and prevent possibility ot ti
food fermenting.— Advt.
Your boy at
the Front!
He may not like to ask
you for them, but
Cigarettes are every
t 0 > him nr ,°hv
there. He’s worthy
of the very best,
so buy him
“De Reszke Cigar
ettes. Post the parcel
yourself. Then y
know they must
reach him safely*
Sold Everywhere
“0.5. H.”: There’s a rum little mariner to
be found on the Barrier Reef at low tide. It is
certainly not Periophthalmus. I have found him at
low tide on turning over a coral boulder, and there
was, 1 am sure, no water within several yards. Some,
discovered at low tide, had been out of water for at
least two hours, and when put into the sea slid off
like buttered lightning. The biggest specimen was
sin. long, and resembled any ordinary bony fish.
In color it was very like a mullet.
“Bill R.”: This is bow a McLaughlan
River (.N.S.W.) farmer euchres the Monaro winter
and secures the earliest dish of potatoes. He plants
his crop months before his neighbors harness up
for ploughing, and over the field he spreads to a
depth of 24ft. his last season’s straw-stacks. Before
the stalk of the eatable pokes its head out of the
straw to get frostbitten, the tubers below are good
enough for the pot. The rotting straw, ploughed
under, manures the ground for the summer crop.
* * * *
“11.V.E.”: Although the beast occurs
throughout Australia it is strange how seldom the
native porcupine is seen. The chief reason is that
these animals pass much of their time underground,
a few inches below the surface, quilled side topmost:
Writer has most often found the pore, in barren
country covered with peppermint scrub, where the
ant and beetle supply is abundant. Saw one transfer-
ring ants to their last resting-place by simply thrust-
ing its moist tongue among the insect population of
a large mound, having it swarmed upon, and then
withdrawing it into the tube in the snout (it has no
mouth in the ordinary sense). Beetles and other
insects are picked up in the same way in the course
of the animal’s everlasting wanderings. I tried once
to tame a young ’un, but it was no go. He was hunger-
ing for a grave and I gave him the address of some
soft soil. I’ve found the echidna on the sea-coast,
within 40yds. of the surf. In this instance it was
sauntering along slowly and dejectedly, as it always
does, with a crowd of inquisitive cattle following,
noses down, close at its heels. It is a silent, beast,
on the whole, but grunts querulously in a' high key
if roughly handled. Pore, is a soft-shelled egg-layer,
like its only living relative, the preposterous platypus,
and the eggs are not laid in a burrow, but pass into
a pouch in the female’s body, where they are hatched.
Scientists say that the echidna and the platypus
belong to the most ancient class of vertebrate animals
living—that they were, in fact, old. inhabitants when
Noah blew the last whistle which summoned Ham,
Shem and Japheth to the Ark a few minutes before
that ancient craft left her mooringss.
“Nym” : A number of people in Northern
Vic. whose job it is. to feed horses are suffering
from a nasty complaint known as the mouse-plague
disease. The trouble starts as if it were erysipelas
and is" hard to get rid of. At one stage it is itchy;
at another it is as painful as scorpion stings. It
seems to puzzle the doctors, who diagnose it as blood-
poisoning. On the face and head it is a terror; on
the arms and less hairy portions of the anatomy
A WEE SCOTCH NECHT.
“Hello, Mac! Making for
home?"
“Hooch-aye—noo an ’ agen
(hie).”
it is easier of treatment. So severe has it become
that I know cockies who prefer to put a match to
their uninsured haystacks rather than suffer from
the dreaded epidemic.
QUEEN FOR A WEEK.
SMALL BOY (to new cook): “Gimme a piece of cake.”
NEW COOK: “Your mother'd he cross if I did.”
THE BOY: “No fear this week, she never growls at a new cook.”
“Regnis” : Recent honeypots mentioned
in The Bulletin would not be a big helping around
the Childers (Q.) district. In 1895, on the Knockroe-
road, I filled from a grey box four kerosene-tins, one
eight- and one twelve : gallon tub of bee sugar, and
many almost equally big nests were to be had
around there. Yet here in the Chillagoe district I
start spruiking as soon as I find a hive with more
than two quarts in the storeroom.
“New England”: No magpie could ever
sing like the shrike-thrush that favors these parts of
nor’-eastern N. S. Wales. Of an early morning his
outpouring of melody' is one of the prime contribu-
tions of our great bush. Granted that the maggie
is a fine chorister, more especially when a dozen of
the family sing their praises to the rising sun; but
the ’pie hasn’t the range nor the delicate timbre of
the thrush. The mag. is more nasal; the thrush’s
liquids are pure and rich, and when she closes her
beak and trills notes of a needle-head fineness, no
other bird excepting the pheasant or lyre-bird need
be mentioned. Listen to a pheasant, dancing some-
where in the heart of the big scrub, and singing for
dear glory, the silvery notes echoing through and
through the bush—well, it’s poet’s music! By
the way, is the butcher-bird an enemy of the shrike-
thrush? I have often noticed that the latter develops
a strange quietness when the butcher is around.
“Nayrb”: “C.J.W.” (B. 30/8/’l7) wants
a feathered Australian with a louder voice than the
American hornbill. Pass him the bittern, which can
be heard cooing six miles away. In the Great
Swamp (Kooweerup, Vic.) 20 years ago this bird
beefed it out night and day where I am now grow-
ing spuds in the shade of the beautiful national debt.
* * * *
“Kassi-kassi” : The black-and-white banded
sea-snake, though not very common about Austral-
asian coasts, is amazingly plentiful around some of
the far-out islands. About Niue, in the Central
Pacific, you can see dozens of them lying massed on
the rocks, and if you go swimming in deep water
you are as likely as not to get yourself entangled
with one. They say in Niue that this snake never
bites. Nevertheless, a boy who landed hurriedly
from a boat on one of the Fijian Islands, and stepped
on a black-and-white banded water-snake, was bitten
and died within an hour or so. It is not likely that
the Niuean species is different—especially as zoolo-
gists maintain that all sea-snakes are poisonous,
though they" do not readily bite. About Port
Moresby (Papua) the black-and-yellow-banded sea-
snake is common. One has lived for many vears
among the under-water stones of the Government
House private jetty; every now and then it is seen
basking on the jetty in the sun. They have often
been seen in the swimming-baths beside the town ;
not so very long ago a Government officer’s wife
found one close to her when she was at the far side
of the bath, enjoying almost her first long swim.
The snake, which was apparently making a nest
among the piles, took offence and went for the lady
who crossed the bath back to the steps at a rate of
speed that amazed everyone, screaming loudly with
every stroke. The snake followed her half-way
across and then turned back, apparently dazed bv
the row.
“H.W.”: Record time in building wire-
netting fence with bush timber? I nominate four
old ’uns of Lara (Vic.) as competitors for the belt.
Recently they constructed 84 chains of wire-netting
. fence, posts 3Rn. through, bored the posts for wire
placed them 17in. in the ground (distance between
posts, 10ft.), put a permanent stay and strainer
every five chains, strained the wire, strained and
attached the netting to the plain wire with clips, and
did it all to the satisfaction of the boss in 34 hours.
The fence was planted at the foot of a granite hill,
and some of the postholes had to be blasted.
“M.W.1.”: Stock-inspector Joe Wilks
recently reported to the Albury (N.S.W.) Pastures
Protection Board a peculiar circumstance in con-
nection with the blowfly pest. There had been, he
said, a marked decrease in the ravages of the fly
amongst sheep in the Western or wheat-growing
areas during the present season, whilst in the eastern
or grazing areas the pest continued its depredations
apparently unchecked. As in past years there has
been no perceptible difference in the activities of
the pest in the two localities, the inspector was
unable to offer any solution of the problem, but he
mentioned that he had heard the theory advanced
that the blowflies were being attacked and devoured
in millions by mice. While offering no opinion as
to the correctness of this theory Wilks said that it
was undoubtedly a fact that there had been a
marked diminution of the blowfly in the districts
afflicted with the other plague.
AT LAST.
WAITER: “Your fish, sir!”
CUSTOMER (from whom all hope had fled):
“Marvellous! What bait did you use?
BURIED HEARTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love to stroll among the stones
In solemn cemetery ground,
And read the comments o’er the bones
That lie beneath the little mounds.
How oft they chronicle the state
Of widows ’neath this shock of fate
Left utterly disconsolate 1
Here's one that tells of Thomas Smith
Departed twenty years ago.
The legend says: “My heart is with
My darling bedded here below.”
Now Mrs. Smith is Mrs. Praed;
Smith’s stone is time and weather frayed-
His lowly bed is all unmade.
There Mrs. Carver makes a vow
To mourn till death her tombed prince.
Her name is Abercrombie now—
She’s had a brace of husbands since.
Kate says her tears will ever run
The dead man’s grave is dry and dun •
Kate weeps now o’er a living one.
Why should we doubt the orthodox
Who tell us from their churchly lore
That man will rise up from his box
In form and substance as before?
’Tis made quite plain for man’s detection
That buried hearts in God’s own section
Have every day a resurrection!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


'A
%
k
t
u
!WO!W
l
T
Cigarettes should possess
individuality something
distinctive something
that lingers pleasantly in
the mind.
Once you have made the
acquaintance of
yf,K (XPRKS
CIGARETTES
you will recog'nise their personality and their
claim on your loyalty for all time. You will never
regret becoming' a smoker of these delig'htfully
“individual” cigarettes.
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
!O for 6d.
STANDARD WEIGHT NOT LESS THAN lO for 6d.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. Ltd., LONDON, ENGLAND.


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are
Bigger now than ever.
Delightfully
Soothing
iH
&■
nv.
m
mr
a
W,'? V
rir>
kit. f i*
C IONCJUx s<^
r -i*-
M' i
16.
Price: 2/6 and 4/6
The Beat is always the Cheapest in the end
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branches at Sydney, N.S.W. fit Wellington. N.Z.
“J.F.H.”: The sudden ending of Sir Her-
bert Tree has recalled a number of similar
stage happenings. Best known is Henry Irv-
ing’s final exit at Theatre Royal, Bradford
after uttering the last words in Tennyson’s
“Beckett” : “Into Thy hands, O Lord.” Ed-
mund Kean collapsed while saying the
familiar “Othello’s occupation’s gone,” and
Samuel Phelps, dressed as Cardinal Wolsey,
while declaiming “A long farewell to all my
greatness.” Actor Baddeley died on the stagy
of Drury Lane, but his ghost walks there
regularly on one night of the year. He left
a bequest to provide a big cake for the
Drury Lane company to be cut and con-
sumed on the stage after the performance on
every sixth of January.
“Miles”: The talk of sudden deaths on the
stage reminds me of Andy Blanchard’s pass-
ing about 11 years ago. This old Tivoli
man stopped singing at a benefit concert at
Dapto (N.S.W.) and pitched over the foot-
lights into my arms. He was dead when he
arrived.
“W.J.H.”: News of Louise Lovely (Car-
basse) (B. IG/8/’l7) reminds me of the
pretty girl’s first stage appearance as a
child of nine. The famous old Drury Lane
clown, “Whimsical Walker,” had just arrived
from London, and had accepted an engage-
ment from Rickards at the Tivoli. The
veteran was putting on a two-character
sketch entitled “Captain Hamilton, V.C.” I
took Walker round to Mrs. Carbasse’s
house, and a few minutes’ trial sufficed to
convince him of Louise’s capabilities. She
played the part with confidence and charm.
That was in 1904.
At the end of the N’York season “Turn
to the Right” led the performance lists with
847, a couple in front of “The Man Who
Came Back” —both still going. Then, in
order, “Nothing But the Truth” (315).
“Upstairs and Down” (303 not out),
“Cheating Cheaters” (wound un with 292),
“The Thirteenth Chair” (238 n. 0.), and
“Come Out of the Kitchen” (231). The
best musical comedy was “Miss Springtime”
(227) and “The Century Girl” (206), an
expensive collection of dress and undress.
Barrie led the British playmakers with “A
Kiss for Cinderella” (155), George Spur-
nard Bore being next with “Getting Mar-
ried” (108). Somerset Maugham was
handy' with “Our Betters” (104 n. 0.), and
Shaw got 73 performances out of “Great
Catherine.” The worst misses were “The
Happy Ending” (7), “Margery Daw 7 ,” by
Ivathlene Maedonell’s husband (S), and
“Gamblers All” (9). But the suddenest of
all was a musical comedy, “Yvette,” which
was played for one night and then put into
the pack.
“Glen Iluntly”: In Yankeeland nowadays
several film companies register the names of
new performers, just as though they were a
new kind of jam or soft drink, and the name
thus registered becomes the permanent pro-
perty of the co. The reason for this is that
it was not uncommon for a film-producing co.
to get hold of an unknown actress, who
would take the name, say, of Beatrice Beau-
tiful ; the co. would teach her her business
and “boom” her until there w 7 as a public
demand for Beatrice, but when her contract
expired it would probably have to compete
with rivals prepared to pay her a larger
salary. Under the new arrangement an
actress can transfer her talents to another
management, but she cannot take her name
with her ; that remains the property of the
co. that “discovered” her, and the co. can
hire another lady, who would, of course, bear
a resemblance to the first, and present her
to the public as Beatrice Beautiful. Appar-
ently there is a good deal of humbug in the
persistent talk of amusement vendors about
the necessity of “delivering the goods.” In
many instances the molasses are of much less
importance than the label on the cask.
“H. 0.”: If silverware figures in a play
put on under the Firm’s management the
“producer” is careful to provide the genuine
article and mention the fact on the pro-
gramme ; if cooking is to be done on the
stage a suitable odor is supplied to show
that there is no deception. The one thing
the producer draws the line at is furnish-
ing a stage library with a few 7 real books.
In “Daddy Long Legs” and other recent
productions w r e have been shown “libraries’
in which not a book w 7 as visible. Some-
times a few false book backs —each about
the size of a Webster’s Dictionary —are
supplied. Other considerations apart, well-
bound books are of distinct decorative value,
a fact that is realised and acted upon by
the better-class English producers. Here,
though, every possible precaution is taken so
that there shall be nothing “literary” about
a production even as regards its furniture.
Captain Bruce Bairnsfather, the black-
and-white artist whose pictures so amused
the Bull public and annoyed the Bull censor,
has written a plav. “The Better ’Ole,” or
“The Romance of Old Bill,” which was due
for production in London in August, with
Arthur Bourchier in the leading rdle.
HOPELESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was, the manager had said,
A call for good Australian plays.
I bought a ream, and went ahead
’Twas written in a hundred days:
A play Australia's heart to rouse
Of sin, and sun, and sheep, and cows.
1 took my great Australian plav,
And gave the manager the script.
He looked in a reproachful way,
And sighed, and very sadly slipped
The MS. in his desk. “I think,”
He said, “we’ll have a drink.”
One week from that the manager
Returned my play. Said he: “Look here,
That’s no Australian play, dear sir
Why, where’s the local atmosphere?
A dozen wayback scenes it's got,
And not a pub in all the lot!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
Business, Robbery, etc
“Hoe” : Re the cultivation of linseed in
Australia (B. 30/8/T7). For 25 years the
N. S. Wales Department of Agriculture has
been trying to coax the seed to become a
commercially profitable vegetable. After
many tests throughout the State, Grafton
and Glen Innes were declared to be the most
suitable localities, but in both places the
crops proved irregular and non-paying. At
Orange the Rev. Lyntott Taylor put 70 acres
under linseed; 20 acres failed completely,
and from the other 50 acres only 200 bushels
were harvested —a poor four bushels to the
acre. In the Yanco irrigation area, where
both the Government and farmers have ex-
perimented for four years, 14 bushels per
acre is the best average. That means 7ewt.
of seed, or the impossible irrigation-farming
return of £3 10s. per acre. Suitable soil and
climate and a heavy rainfall are absolutely
necessary for heavy crops. If profitable cul-
tivation were assured, why does not the
enterprising Meggitt firm become independ-
ent of the Orient and grow its own
product? Neither is the Department
discouraging the distribution of seed.
But the Department is discouraging
the wholesale scattering of seed plus im-
ported pests. Some of the linseed which is
reaching the Commonwealth —particularly
that from Japan—is mostly seed but partly
dodder, a deadly lucerne parasite. When this
was explained to Meggitt’s. that firm readily
agreed to the Department’s reasonable re-
quest that all seed for cultivation purposes
should be declared clean by the Department
before being distributed.
“Bung”: How does this stand for the
worst “sport”? He was the postmaster, and
was £3O to the bad when a friendly ring-up
foretold the coming of the inspector. Hur-
riedly he obtained the signatures of each of
the staff to pay vouchers, though the end of
the month was some days ahead, and these
were handed in at the clean-up as cash paid.
The inspector thus found all square, but
(vide regulation xveix) fined each of the
officials ss. for signing vouchers before the
last day of the month. That happened long
ago, but the fines the postmaster never re-
funded ; also, the understrappers still re-
member sadly how they once lost a month’s
screw by handing in receipted vouchers before
pay-day.
* t t
"K.K.” : An Englishman friend showed me
last night a slab of oak cut from the centre
of one of the piles of Old London Bridge,
which was built in 1176. The piles were left
in the Thames mud when the bridge was
pulled down in 1802; but in ’B6, as they
were a danger to navigation, Jas. Greenwood
and Son got the contract to remove the old
stumps, and one of the junior members of
the firm had a souvenir piece sawn off for
my friend. Our Australian hardwoods will
probably last just as well; but we won’t be
here when the reliability test is over.
“V. 8.”: Re Australian timbers, this is an
instance of what was going on for 30 years.
The framework of a camera was repaired by
a local tradesman, and looked so much
better than the original thing that the
foreign-trading firm asked why cameras
could not be made here. “I can make all you
want if I could get Honduras mahogany,”
was the answer. The camera house guaran-
teed to get the wood, and in due course came
a consignment, wrapped in brown paper—
from Germany! The invoice showed average
cost at about Is. 6d. per sq. foot surface for
N. 8. Wales rosewood, which the N.D.L.
had carried in logs from Sydney at 13s. per
100 ft. D’you hear that shell, Billjim? We
paid for it. And the messers who refused
to give us a tariff or do any other single
thing to boost Australian industry are now
posing—some of them—as statesmen !
* * * *
“Croson”: Returned Billjim retains his
capacity to get himself put of a hot corner.
One of him had gone back to his old billet
of gas-meter inspector or electric-light tally-
man or something similar and was pestered
by the attentions of a Mrs. Potiphar. The
lady ignored the cold shoulder and disre-
garded the glassy eye, but one day when he
called to read the meter at the house oppo-
site his chance came. The housewife bade
him good-morning, but said she didn’t think
she ought to let him inside. “How’s that,
madam?” “Well, I’ve got measles in the
house, and you might catch them.” “Oh,
that’s all right, I’m a measles carrier myself.
But whatever you do don’t tell anyone or
I’d lose my billet.” Of course the rest of
the street, including Mrs. Potiphar, got the
news next day, but as all were sworn to
secrecy Billjim pursues his job in peace.
“Wonga”: There is a rather horrible pros-
pect ahead of fruitgrowers in Australia.
The apple business depends upon the export
trade, while the tons of other fruit that are
shipped away in tins help to keep up the
juice of the stuff that is locally consumed.
In the coming season it looks as if very
little will be exported. “Keep it in cans. ’
urges the onlooker. But the trouble is to
find the cans. Prices have more than
doubled: 241 b. fruit tins that cost 16s. per
gross are 38s. and going up. Even the
despised petrol tin, once nominally worth
2d., is (kl. now. Likewise sugar, without
which canned fruit would be impossible, has
jumped from £2l to £3O per ton. Still, it is
no use waiting till the fruit is ripe. \Ve
ought to make the best of a bad job ; and it
is up to the fruitgrowers to get together and
find out what that best is.
* * ■* *
“Croson”: Talking about record prices for
dairy cows, what about a pig that cost its
owner £249-odd? It was a very ordinary
pig, too, and weighed only 591 b. when
dressed, but it broke away from its moorings
lately when being hoisted into a Melbourne
hotel and fell on' a chauffeur passing under-
neath. Like many other persons he objected
to being squelched by a hog, but he wasn’t
compelled to argue the point with a gun.
The law was there and it mentioned the
sum stated as fair damages.
* * * *
“Wart”: Talking about shipbuilding.' In
1798 the Norfolk Islanders decided that they
would construct a boat. They made it of
local pine. Even the quadrant was manu-
factured on the island. Flinders and Bass
persuaded Governor Hunter to commandeer
the craft and lend her to them to solve the
problem of whether Van Diemen’s Land was
an island. Amongst the industries of Mac-
quarie Harbor when it was a convict station
was shipbuilding. One of the boats built there,
the Frederick, earned for herself fame of a
sort. At the abandonment of the settlement
in 1833 she was sent around from Hobart to
bring the last of the stores and men. She
was seized by mutinous convicts, who sailed
her to South America. John Barker was
captain, Fair was first mate and Lyons was
second. They made the Chilian coast in six
weeks, nearly starved. Part of the crew
were subsequently returned to Tasmania,
then Hell-upon-earth. They escaped being
hanged—which was their hard luck.
* * * *
“Murkali” : An idea that P.M.G. Webster
might very well resurrect is the registration
of contents of registered letters. Under the
present system the Department issues
a receipt for, and promises to deliver,
the envelope, without regard to the
innards. In the event of failure to
carry out this promise, and failures are
fairly frequent, paragraph 98 of the current
postal guide provides that “compensation up
to but not exceeding £2 may be allowed,” no
matter how much greater the actual loss
may have been. Paragraph 102 states that
“no legal liability to give compensation in
respect of the loss of any registered article
shall attach to the P.M.G and the deci-
sion of the P.M.G., as to whether compensa-
tion shall or shall not be granted, shall in all
cases be final.” Paragraph 98 further pro-
vides that no claim whatever will be consid-
ered in the case of lost registered parcels.
Neither will compensation be allowed in re-
spect of money unless it was sent so as to
comply with half a hundred or so depart-
mental rules which the customer probably
never heard of. For instance, in the case of
banknotes, the number, amount, bank and
date of issue must be furnished before a
claim will even be considered. How many
people could furnish such particulars? A
registration system which offers so little pro-
tection is hardly worth paying for.
* * * *
lOU Ward, who has just returned from a
series of banquets in the Cold Country,
explained the position to the M.L. House of
Reps.:—
The British Empire after the war will be in the
position of having such a solid" basis upon which
the whole structure has been placed during an un-
paralleled time that we will be on a footing of
solidity—financially, commercially and industrially
—while Germany will be on the bedrock of
insolvency.
That settles it! Good night—and pleasant
dreams!
* * * *
“E.M.W.”: "Enzedder” talks rubbish
when he asserts that Maoriland soldiers
wear better clothes than the Australians.
All M.L. soldiers that I have met, and they
are many, have worn cloth that one could
read the profits through. Two or three Maori-
land officers told me that they sent to Aus-
tralia and England for their uniforms,
because of the poop quality supplied in then-
own islets.
LIGHT IN THE DARKNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Even if tlie gas restrictions should he increased,
etc.” —Daily paper.
If lights should fail and all the world grow dark,
And even candles soar to highest price,
The little stars, with twinkling, small remark,
Would mention still that Clara’s hair is nice;
And gloom could never spoil her lips’ red taste
Or make triangular her rounded waist.
Lights are for sin that goes with painted face.
They needs must sparkle or the play goes flat.
I care not how the shadows wrap the place
So there be joy beneath my lady’s hat.
There were no lights in Eden ere the snake
Crawled in, his vengeance or delight to take.
Pull close the curtains of the scented Spring,
Draw all the blinds on the world’s windows wide.
Two hearts have still a lilting song to sing
That darkness cannot quench or blackness hide.
And to the laughing measure of the night,
Gas or no gas, Clara is still as bright.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.
BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A fortnight out from Sydney Heads,
And home in three weeks more!
Oh, stoking coal is thirsty work
And throats grow dry and sore;
So things w r ere hot in Headley-street
When Bill Dean went ashore.
A big, hard-bitten man was Bill,
His fist was like a ham,
And for the cops and chuckers-out
He did not care a damn;
When Bill was oiled the local John
Grew tame as Mary’s lamb.
His mother was a wrinkled crone
Who used to scrub and char;
His sister worked in Chandos-street,
His wife in Bradley’s bar;
And Bill would sprag them all for loans
Before he sailed afar.
A week in drink, and one in clink,
And then with ugly leer
He’d mooch around the corner bar
W here Bella pumped the beer ;
And if you talked with Bella then
\ou d risk a thickened ear.
No wonder when he packed his kit
His mother danced with glee.
His sister swore Blue Peter was
The flag that made her free:
There was no moaning at the bar
When Bill put out to sea.
VICTORIA.
RANN DALY.


j.'fcUT,
it.,**
/ '• rt' * .
/^£''-/ ,'% / / '
ri--
Vs.-*}}#'
i^Jv u
Before the Wool Season comes on
INSTALL A G.E. ELECTRIC GENERATOR
to supply current for operating your Shearing Machines.
HPHERE are suitable G.E. Electric Motors for running the machines not only
* for Shearing purposes, but for the Farm generally. Almost every task
on a Station or Farm can be done more rapidly, more safely, and more
economically with electric power than in any other way.
fcgimiiM,ig«ilir«wi.ia
Corner Wentworth
Avenue & Goulburn
Street, Sydney
Corner Queen and
Little Collins Sts.,
Melbourne
OTHER AGENTS.
BRISBANE (Q ) • The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia(E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins 8c Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun 8c Johnstone, 100 Currie Street,
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical St Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA:' Lindsay Tullock &. Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs.
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
©
o
O
O
O


A. Saunders’ 4-cup Egg Frame and
Spoons, pure silver-plated nickel sil-
ver, gilt-lined cups and spoons, 30/•
A. Saunders’ Specimen
Tube, “Daffodil” design,
pure silveT-plated, satin-
finish, gilt-lined, 4in. high,
A. Saunders’ Hotwater Jug,
silver-plated, engraved
“Empire” design, 32/6.
TABLE APPOINTMENTS
ALL
ORDERS
POSTED
FREE.
. Saunders’ double Jam Dish, dainty floral china
dishes, pure silver-plated solid base, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Sugar Scuttle, pure
silver-plated, highly b ( urnished, 15 /G.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
GIFT BOOK.
IT’S FREE.
A. Saunders’ Tea and Coffee Service, pure silver-plated, comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar and Cream, highly
burnished and engraved, floral design, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Baking Dish, pure silver-plated,
highly burnished, plain design, with enamel
lining, 25/-
e
nan
aaasa
aa
A. Saunders’ Inkstand, silver-plated stand, crystal-
glass bottles. Special value, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ Butter and Toast Com-
bination, silver-plated frame and shell
design, glass lining, jg/„
A. Saunders’ two-braneh Speci-
men Tube, pure silver-plated,
handsome floral design, gilt-
lined, 4in. high, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel,
silver-plated mounts, fancy
floral china, 10/6.
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager, [l
Sunburn—lnsect Bites—Chafed Skin.
In any of these cases something to ease the soreness and
irritation is wanted promptly, and it is so soothing to apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
An excellent heeding antiseptic preparation, useful at any time for
cuts, burns, scratches, and skin ailments generally.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester England.
BOOKS AT THE BIG BOOK STORE.
No Matter What Book You Want I’ve Got It.
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated
with over 50 engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Mebrie England, Sd. llow
to Get Rich, 1/- posted. De Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Donnelly s
Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, 1/3. llow to Dance, 1/-
posted. How to Wrestle, 1/3. Moll Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, 1/2
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each
posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ventriloquism Made Ea'sy, 1/3. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, 1/3 posted. How to Strengthen the Memory, 1/1. Bell’s
Standard Elocutionist, latest edition, 4/9 posted Riddle of the Universe, 10d. ;
and all the Rational Press Reprints (send f>r list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket Writing Explained, 1/6.
Mechanics’ Workshop Handybook, 1/6. Quadril e Call Book, 2/-. Adven-
tures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. Fortune-Telling by
Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/3. Beauty’s Secrets, post
free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s
Science of Life, 12/6. Australian Miner’s Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3/9. Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price
1/-, posted 1/3. How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 4/- posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s
Freemasonry, 4/3 poste.'. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod
(Flagellations and the Flagellants), scarce, 12/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and
1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. Britain for the British, 9d. How to Read
Faces, 1/6. How to Train for all Sports, 1/3. Diseases o Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photography Self-taught, 1/3. How to
Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins, 1/3 posted.
House Painting & Papering, 1/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 12/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6. SEND A TRIAL ORDER TO-DAY.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,’"
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
II IS I REE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human Nature as
it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thousand questions that occur to
the minds of young and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting their
physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning
marriage, which makes it a very superior guide to the action of men and women
both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright future,
and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the
information embraced in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
~ SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged, cloth-covered
SID LI INGS^ 118 ® rea * : wol 'k- It will be posted to ANY address for TEN
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this Advt•
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the AsKing.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANY
COUNTRY.
ORDERS
SENT BY RETURN POST
advertised elsewhere
NO DUTY.
SENT-
ANY BOOK
SIR ROBERT BEARf 67 & 69 Marßet St. Sydney (only)*


Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 21st June, 1917.
Tenders for Pumping Plant and Equip-
ment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
tpEXDERS will be received, subject to the
1 conditions of tendering, for the supply
and delivery of Pumping Station l'lanr and
Equipment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney, N.S.W.,
until 12 noon on Wednesday. 10th October,
1917.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette,
obtainable at any Post Office, or at the Office
of the Director of Navy Contracts. Navy
Office, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 10th August, 1917.
Entry of Apprentices at H.M.A. Naval
Dockyards and Establishments, Sydney.
\TTENTION is invited to an advertise-
ment appearing in the Commonwealth
of Australia Gazette, inviting applications
from persons desirous of sitting for exam-
ination for admission as Apprentices to
H.M.A. Naval Dockyards and Establish-
ments, Sydney.
2. Candidates must not be less than 14
nor have attained their sixteenth birthday
upon 31/3/1918, and must be of pure Euro-
pean descent and sons of natural-born
British subjects.
3. Further particulars as to rates of pay,
conditions of entry, etc., may be obtained
on application to the following:—
Captain-in-charge, H.M.A. Naval Estab-
lishments. Garden Island. Sydney.
General Manager. Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
The Manager, Wireless Workshops. Avoca
Street, Randwick, N.S.W.
District Naval Officer. Edged iff, Sydney.
Naval Secretary, Navy Office. Melbourne.
District Naval Officer. Bay Street, Port
Melbourne.
District Naval Officers. Brisbane, Birken-
head, S.A., Fremantle and Hobart.
JOSEril COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
Wanted.
Business Manager Wanted
WE require the services of an experi-
enced and competent Business Man
to assist in the management of our Auckland
Branch Establishment. A knowledge of
accounts is essential and ft thorough grasp
of Modern Salesmanship and methods indis-
pensable. Applications are particularly in-
vited from able and energetic men
experience in the Management of the Fer-
tilister Industry.
Excellent prospects for a thoroughly com-
petent. keen and active Business Man pos-
sessing executive ability, and no other need
apply.
Salary £5OO per annum to commence.
Applications (covering testimonials and
photograph), which will be treated in strict
confidence, to be addressed.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.’s
New Zealand Drug Company, Ltd..
Dunedin, N.Z.
FREE! ABSOLUTELY FREE!
You can test Calox at our expense.
A big, well-filled sample tin will be
sent free if you simply attach your
name and address to this ad., slip
into an envelope with two penny
stamps to cover postage, and address
to Calox Dept., Geo. Wills and Co..
480 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
is the most up-to-date, scientific
i dentifrice in use to-day. Calox, when
moistened, generates oxygen. This
active, powerful force is Nature’s
i own germ-destroyer.
Destructive acids and fermenting
food particles cannot exist where the
oxygen goes, and as the oxygen
penetrates the recesses and crevices
of the teeth, the cause of decay is
completely removed, and both mouth
and teeth are purified. At the same
time a pleasant, refreshing effect
remains, for Calox is as dainty as it
is efficacious,
Calox is procurable from
All Chemists and Leading: Stores
F. 20/9/’l7.
Amiinpitieii t*.
Ilarr> ItickardM Tivoli Tlieutres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH,
T lv O L 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY
Every Evening at 8. Matinees Wednesday and
Saturday, 2.30.
America’s famous Beauty Star,
MISS lIUTII BUDD,
I he Girl with the Smile,” supported bv an entirely
wv Company of Artists, including THE CAMILLE
tltlu, sensational Comedy Acrobats.
f m,M theatre. Al elkoi kn e.
Led
Also
JUNE
BURY
REAPPEARANCE OF THE
TIVOLI FOLLIES,
by the charming MISS THELMA RAYE.
C.-MACE & CO., KELLY and DRAKE,
ADDELL, THE SHELDONS, HARRY ROX-
and ALICE BEN NETTIE
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
1 T E It IO N T II EA T It E, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
„ J - [■ WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous
English Character Actor, Mr. CYRIL MAUDE, in
his famous production of
GRUMPY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
H K K M A J K » T V ’ s. SVKNR Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinee Wednesday at 2.
YOU’RE IN LOYE,
J. C. Williamson's Beautiful Musical Comedy
Production,
Flans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LOOK WHO’S HERE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
with
AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
Prices as usual.
P A L A C E TIIEAT It E, SYDNEY*.
Commencing SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29.
Return of J. and N. TAIT’S Popular
NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.,
including
BARRY LUPINO.
2RIE WHITE CHRYSANTHEMUM.
A Musical Extravaganza from Old Japan.
Plans at Nicholson’s, Monday, September 24.
T ° W N H v I, L. s Y 1> X E Y.
■ SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29.
OCTOBER 1, 3 and 6.
J. and N. TAIT present the POPULAR SINGERS,
MADAME EVELYN SCOTNEY
and
MR. HOWARD WHITE
after their TRIUMPHANT AMERICAN TOUR.
Flans at Nicholson's, Tuesday, September 25.
THE PL A Y H O U S E. MELBOURNE.
* Lesse and Manager: WILLIAM COSGROVE.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
WILLIAM COSGROVE
has much pleasure in announcing that he will stage,
for a Limited Season of Four Weeks,
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA,
The Latest Up-to-date Farcical Comedy,
THIi SHIRKER.
Interpreted by a
BRILLIANT NEW COMPANY OF PROFESSIONAL
ARTISTS.
War-time Prices: 3/'-, 2/-, 1/-. No Tax.
Watch Daily Papers for Box Plan Notice.
Public Notices.
|£j X P L O S I V E S’.
Commonwealth Patent No. 10,697, dated 29th Sep-
tember, 1913, “IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELAT-
ING TO THE MANUFACTURE OF HEXANITRO-
DIPIIENYLSULPHIDE,”
and
Commonwealth Patent No. 10,698, dated 29th Sep-
tember, 1913, “IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELAT-
ING TO THE USE OF EXPLOSIVES FOR FILL-
ING PROJECTILES, MINES, TORPEDOES,
PRIMERS, DETONATORS, AND THE LIKE.”
The public of the Commonwealth of Australia is
hereby notified that any reasonable requirement in
regard to permission upon royalty for manufacturers
to employ the said invention in Australia will be
satisfied by the undersigned (at reasonable cost) on
application being made to them.
Melbourne, 12th day of September, 1917.
NOBEL’S EXPLOSIVES COMPANY LIMITED, in
care of COLL ISON and COMPANY, Patent Attorneys,
483 Collins Street, Melbourne.
For Sale.
Wonderful Bargain in
Electric - Light Reflectors.
\\J E are selling HOLOPHANE Glassware and Fit-
W tings at a discount of 33J p.c. off list
prices with a view to clearing the balance of our
surplus stocks. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS FOR LARGE
ORDERS. Owing to advancing prices and higher
freights, early application is necessary if you wish to
take advantage of our offer.
WE SELL WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Electric Lamps, Fuses, Radiators, Switches,
Fans, Wire, Bells, Telephones, Conduit, etc.,
etc.
Herbert Morris’ Pulley Blocks, all sizes.
Steam Traps, Grease and General Electric
Accessories.
ELECTRIC SUPPLIES & ENGINEERING Limited,
163 Clarence Street, Sydney. Tel. City 6002.
FOR SALE FROM STOCK.
CONDENSER. —4B-pipe Consummate Evapora-
tive Condenser, capable of dealing with 10801 b.
steam per hour.
STOKER. B 3 Underfeed Stoker.
PUMPING SET. 6in. Gwynne Centrifugal
Pump, direct coupled to a 13h.p. 480-volt Lan-
cashire motor, 830r.p.m.
ELECTRIC GENERATOR. 41 kilowatt,
shunt wound, protected type, fitted with inter-
poles suitable for battery-charging purposes, com-
plete with shunt regulator.
AIR PUMP. Bin. x Sin. Edwards Air Pump-
capacity 2450 cubic feet per hour.
All of the above plant is new and is being
cleared in some instances below cost.
Electric Supplies 8 Engineering Limited
163 Clarence Street, Sydney. Tel. City 6002.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street. Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849, ,
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-payi g
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; lion. J, T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., Iv.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. ; liiehard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR. A n n
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,660,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
JJLjr
Amusements.
T HIAMiLE I'LAVS
1 THE LYCEUM,
AT
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.tn.
to 11 p.m. Pull Evening Session ;
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s,
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6<l.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager?*
EU MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C, WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
H
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Musical
Cocktail,
MU. MANHATTAN.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
’ II E A T R E R O Y A E, M EI,UOI, It N E.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATHLENE MACDONELL
in
HUBERT HENRY DAVIES’ CELEBRATED PLAY,
OUTCAST.
K
ING’S THEATRE, M ELHOU It N E.
Sole Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 22.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
STEELE RUDD'S latest success,
Gil AN’DAD RUDD.
Popular Prices.
Amusements.
p RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE,
in
SEVEN DAYS’ LCAVE.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4 1-, 3'-, 2/- and 1/-.
|_J OV'Fs THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to (! p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening, and Matinees Saturday at
2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
EMMY WEHLEN in
THE DUCHESS OE DOUBT.
HILDA MORE and MILTON ROSMER in
WHOSO IS WITHOUT SIN.
Prices as usual.
V.JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURN E.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CHARLES RAY
in
THE CLODHOPPER,
and
FRAGMENTS FROM FRANCE,
A Movie Cartoon, drawn b.v Capt. Bruce Bairns-
father.
Matinees at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN. VITA GRAPH. • PATH E,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gRITANNIA MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
•
‘ ; J SS?i£sjs>' ,
»?«®B-' s.B.
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls • Barron Gorge v
the wonderful hinterland
JSunshtne , Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious :
season of soft sunshine
and Scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about *1
is yours for the asking
/v// ft 7 f/jrj coupon ■-
A'orne
Address
X
x.
/ty /Ac* Z)rrecfor of %,
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane, QUEENSLAND.
'
s*&
gM
*
A Pageant of Peerless Artistes
introduced by
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE.”
INVITATION
Co hear the glorious voices ot
MELBA
CARUSO
CHAUAPINE
TETRAZZINI
MCCORMACK
CLARA BUTT
TITTARUFFO
KIRKBYLUNN
and the inspired playing of
B4DEREWSKI, KUBELIK
and the other World-Celehrities
His Master* Voice
«*vme**
Go to the nearest dealer who sells
“His Master's Voice’’ record's.
Ask him to play your favorite
music—it may be Opera, Musical
Comedy or Vaudeville. He will
have it. Name your favorite
artist. It may be Caruso or
some other eminent star; it may
be Hubert Eisdell or some equally-
popular vocalist; it may be Albert
Chevalier or a humorist of equal
notoriety. Whoever it is—so
long as the artist is really
FAMOUS —you can get his or
her BEST AND LATEST NUM-
BERS on “His Master’s Voice"’
Records.
Instruments catalogue, record
lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.


1
o
m
p
MARY PICKFORD
MARGUERITE CLARK
Mme. PETROVA
MARGARET ILLINGTON
MAE MURRAY
MARIE DORO
BILLIE BURKE
BLANCHE SWEET
LOUISE HUFF
Paramount Producers have the stars, the plays,
the directors, the resources, the equipment and the desire
to make the greatest pictures on earth—which explains why they do.
Paramount’s greatest boosters are the millions of
men, women and children who declare —by their
attendance in thousands of theatres in every part of
the globe—that Paramount Pictures are the most
consistently entertaining type of amusements offered
on the screen.
The Paramount stars are not only the best known —■
but, collectively, they represent the greatest aggrega-
tion of artists appearing under one management in
the world’s history.
Generally speaking, exhibitor:
classes—those who always
Pictures, and those who are
s may be divided into two
have played Paramount
going to.
Paramount’s greatest boast is that 92 per cent, of the
first one thousand exhibitors to play Paramount Pic-
tures are on the Paramount Books to-day.
Think what this means!
It means tnat Paramount distribution is as great as
vrJoV't° UUt Ptct l ires an< ? Paramount Stars and the
great Paramount organisation.
If your theatre is showing pictures starring such names as are shown here, you are o- e ttine- the * a
most consistent form of motion-picture entertainment. If you are not, ask the manager to show Paramount’ Pictures
GEO. M. COHAN
DOUG. FAIRBANKS
WALLACE REID
“FATTY” ARBUCKLE
THOMAS MEIGHAN
TOM FORMAN
SESSUE HAYAKAWA
THEODORE ROBERTS
JACK PICKFORD
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE TWO-HEADED GIANT.
Both Kerensky and Korniloff are understood to
have the best interests of Russia at heart.— Cable.
But while the two heads are unable to agree
which mouth is the best suited for eat-
ing with, the stomachski does a perish.
The political trinity of Party—Shirk,
Burk and Murk.
The workman who objects to a time-card
is objecting to the boss counting the work
he has got for his money. But did anyone
ever see a man move away from a pay
window before he had counted his wages?
In the House of Reps.:—
Moloney: Does the Government intei <1 to intro-
duce ;i Bill for the initiative and referendum?
Hughes: No; never. (Ministerial cheers.)
Of course not. Still there is a candor about
the answer which looks a bit more
decent than the frequent promise with a
string on it that Australia got from the
other crowd.
"Red Tape” ; It used to be a rule in the
N S. Wales Public Service that when a
man was temporarily filling a job higher
than his own he was paid his usual wage
and half the difference between it and that
of his newer employment. Six months ago,
however, the hard-up Government wiped its
eye and expressed re-
gret that this arrange-
ment could no longer
be adhered to. From
the new rule, it was
added, there could
be no exceptions what-
ever. The service,
recognising the posi-
tion. did not complain
till it learned the other
day that Cullen, C.J.,
while * acting as Gov-
ernor. draws £3500 as
a judge and £2500 as
half the cocked-hat
salary, or together
£lOOO a year more
than the Governor’s
salary; and he doesn’t
even come under the
card system ! I’d tell
what the language is
like in our depart-
ment, where, owing to
the war, many officers
are double-banking
jobs without thankye,
if The Bulletin’d print it in a whisper.
The Ma State has been given a new
( -ked Hat. The gentleman comes from
wfonndland, and gained earlier experi-
iice in handling the complex problem of
affixiug his signature to documents while
wearing the lively of exalted office in the
Seychelle Islands. His name is Walter
Davidson, and he is SS. This paper hopes
he will escape f i I-Newfoundland without
catching a cold a J be satisfied with the
£5OOO a year and free house, etc., waiting
for him in Sydney. Meanwhile the fact that
there was no Cocked Hat on the premises
had escaped public notice, and there is no
valid reason why the Government of a State
which is getting mighty hard up should not
have allowed the absence of official millinery
to evade attention indefinitely. Chief Jus-
tice Cub has been doing the job like a
tradesman on half salary in his ordinary
clothes, and might very well have been left
alone. The question for every patriotic citi-
zen to insist upon the S. M. Herald at once
answering is : Does the importation of any-
one named W. Davidson at £lOO a week
help to win the war? If it does not, the
community should arise and awake and
advise W. Davidson by cable to assist the
Empire in this crisis by taking a billet in a
munition factory under the card system.
How the Australian loves a gamble, and
how the Treasury is losing war-money by
not offering him the chance of a flutter,
Moree (N.S.W.) is now the witness. For
a Crown lease in that district the other day
there were G9l applicants, mostly rounded
up by local agents. Probably three-fourths
or more of them didn’t know a single thing
about the block from personal knowledge;
but they were willing to take a ticket at
a cost of a pound or so—agents’ exes. There
is no reason that is worth tuppence why
the Treasury shouldn’t raise £10,000,000
by a plan under which the interest would
be divided in the shape of prizes. For a
crowd like the Phewsion to pretend that it
is too lily-white to handle such a scheme is
a shrieking jest.
Sydney Telegraph man at Melbourne in
a candid moment: —
A Government is always anxious to get rid of
Parliament, and members themselves are always
prepared for an adjournment that will relieve them
of the boredom of attending the House.
Especially when wars have to be won.
Another awful example of the waste and
folly of making things in Australia instead
of buying them from some otherwhere is
given by the Melbourne Fire Brigade. It is
spending £l6OO in building on the spot the
biggest extension-ladder in Australia, though
the Superintendent reckons that this country
could have been saved all the bother of
making the thing if it had borrowed £2400
and spent the money oh an imported one.
Hennessy’s struggle to retain the Mel-
bourne Gaud Mayoralty for the sixth year in
succession has brought him into violent con-
tact with at least one of the councillors. This
avowed supporter of the Stapley candidature
reminded Ilennessy that he had definitely
notified his intention to retire from the
mayoral job at the end of his fifth year,
wherefore some of the Council, looking
around for new blood, had fixed on Stapley.
The Mayor, without attempting to excuse
his change of mind, suggested that any
member opposing his re-election might come
to grief at his next attempt to renew his own
term of ward representation. In fact, Hen-
nessy is flatly accused of threatening to get
his opponents chucked out of the Council as
punishment for insubordination. Some angry
correspondence between the five-times Mayor
and his candid critic ended in the latter
sending the almighty one a copy, of a
statutory declaration he had sworn in sub-
stantiation of his story. Any votes that were
previously in doubt are now pretty certain
to be cast for Stapley.
THE STRIKE AND THE WAR.
The prosy politician who merely buzzes
has a happier time after changing sides than
the vitriolic phrase-maker who finds himself
opposed by embittered old colleagues with
long memories. Catts, M.H.R., scalded
Hughes with some of his own acid last week
as he reminded Blundering Billy how,
when they had been together on strike con-
ferences and men had objected to going back
to work with non-unionists, he had blazed
out: “After you have been back a
week it wall be as hard to find a non-
unionist among you as to find the Cross of
Christ at the bottom of Hell.” Now, nobody
can remember anything like that against
Jocook. When he opens fire he accomplishes
something which amuses all and gives offence
to none. Wasn’t it Joe who stormed: “The
world must never again be darkened by the
flames of war”?
The worst precedents set up by previous
Federal Governments are naturally being
followed by the Phewsion. The House of
Reps, is going to adjourn in a week or so —
for a rest or something—and the
Estimates for the year are natu-
rally to be shoved away on a shelf.
Thus the disgraceful practice goes
on of emptying the national cash-
box and then getting authority to
do it, the Parliament hypocritically
discussing items as though the
money hadn’t been already spent.
This flagrant abuse, which all par-
ties conspire to perpetuate, repre-
sents a gross evasion of duty by
Parliament. It turns public con-
trol of public money into a mere
rumor. Meanwhile a long-eared
community wonders what is hap-
pening to its pocket and the debt
goes climbing up on a visit to
Mars.
The serio-comic Kaiser discov-
ered recently a new use for his
Iron Cross. It is to be hung here-
after on th 6 swelling chests of all
German soldiers and officers who
have fallen captive to the enemy,
provided they can “prove that they
did not surrendeT voluntarily.” A
good few thousands of the Kaiser’s
warriors have been taken prisoner
this year before they could be
decorated for valor, and the idea
of their returning home without
having made a thing out of the
war was evidently disturbing to
the boss. The Iron Cross was
meant to reconcile the lowliest
Iluns to militarism, and tins now oxcuso
for distributing the cheap rewards of valor
is intended to assure Fritz that he didn’t
surrender in vain. He will get the cross for
his discretion in deciding to live— to fight
another day!
tt he appointment of W. A. S. Ilewins as
Under-Sec. for the Colonies suggests that the
British Government is thinking about a
tariff. Ilewins is the leading authority- ,
what they call there “Scientific ProE „n "
He did the devilling for Chamberlain 1
that big man threatened to do the thing that
would probably have prevented this war and
has used up gallons of ink in showing ’that
Britain needs a Protective tariff risirn? in
accordance with the amount of labor eon
tnbuted to the article Hewins’s collection
of facts makes a fine library for the P ro tw
tiomst. He has completely exploded the
idea that a high tariff necessarily means h i
prices. He wont to German, 10?““, tf
his proofs lor instance, up and down' the
Rhine and other German waterways them
were scores of paper mills turning out n
very good article with old-fashioned nlani
A stiffen tariff was adopted to block Scam '
navi an paper. For the next three years the
price of paper in Germany was advanced'
The larger profits were, however, attracting
other capital, and new mills were put in
To compete with these the old mills had tn
be remodelled. In the fourth year of the
high tariff prices were thus brought back m
their old level, and in the fifth year and
thereafter they were lower than ever thev
imd been, though wages were slightly higher
and profits generally better.
He may be starting to win the war after
ail. At any rate, Sydney Telegraph
announced the other morning that a heavy
attack had been launched at “Mt. Hughes”
by ex-Treasurer W. G. Higgs. The con
diet raged at an altitude of about 47i n
and was suddenly terminated by Mt. Hughes
bursting into eruption, in which the assail-
ants were overwhelmed with hot air. stones
lava, boiling words and molten adjectives
It seems to have been quite a big thin-- f., r
two minutes.
The I.WAV. in Sydney has been in con-
flict again with the tyrant Capital. He put
the bailiff in for rent and the benches and
chairs were sold off last week.
REMOVING THE DIFFICULTY.
ARTIST: “Hanged if I can get a decent model
for this! What I want is a fine, dash-
ing stamp of man .”
GUSSIE : “Dammit, old fellah, why the
deuce didn't you let me know before?
I'll bally well pose for the johnnies.”
TALK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The price of good rump-steak is high, green peas are
out of sight,
And what one pays for decent spuds indeed seems
hardly right.
The poor old poor, they say, are much, much poorer
than they were,
While rabbits now are skin and bone at eighteenpence
the pair.
We know the cure, of course —it is to stand around
and flap
Wild hands in gestures bold and wide, and, without
ceasing, yap !
The remedy is plain. This is the time for thoughtful
folk
To get up and express themselves—for every brainy
bloke
Who has the gift of tongues to rise and make a few
remarks
On profiteers, exploiters and all known provision-
sharks ;
For shrill, excited females to collect in flocks, and
squawk,
And sweep high costs to blazes in a flood of furious
talk.
There is no lack of experts to inform us what is what
And why and how we may forthwith improve our
earthly lot.
All sorts of strange old things, with gamps and
goggles, beat the air
And argue and uproariously ejac l-ty “Now, there!
Waddiyer say to that?” Absurdly solemn-visaged
coots
Declaim upon the values of assorted nuts and roots.
Fat, fierccly-frantic housewives go to mobbing ha ■
less Johns
Instead of staying home to wash or bake big trays of
scone's.
Unhappy William Nelson Hughes shrinks down inside
his socks
Each time he hears a female scream. Upon his
candle-box
Each saviour of the people makes one speech a day at
least,
Telling in loads of language how the populace is
fleeced.
Vet —dash it! —still rump-steak is high and murphies
do not slump,
And every little while fresh fish take yet another
jump,
And fruit is still a luxury, for carriage-folk and such,
While fowl and cold boiled bacon few plain people
ever touch....
It seems a hopeless case, of course, but surely we do
help
Who wait around to give three groans or raise a
handv yelp!
VICTORIA.
O. L.
THE SORENESS SPECIFIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a deputation of employers which waited on
Premier Peacock to place before him the difficulties
that business men of Victoria were laboring under,
Mr. F. J. Skinner (Master Carriers’ Association)
remarked: “Perhaps it would be a good thing if the
theatres were obliged to shut down. The people
would become sore at once when their amusements
were interfered with, and some solid help might be
accorded the Government.”
That’s the way—
Ban the play!
No amusements night or day!
Ope no more
The showman’s door—
That’ll make the public sore.
When the people sore become,
Hail the blest Millennium 1
Victimise
All those guys
IVho a laugh these days may prize;
Added gloom
Be their doom—
Let their thoughts dwell on the tomb ;
Sore and sorer let them be —
So will dawn prosperity!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


HAVE YOU A SELDOM-USED
PIANO IN YOUR HOME?
The ESTEY PLAYER PIANO
A most delightful instrument.
Open for playing
with music rolls.
&
rwrrfJ**
' 1
Is it “silent** and deteriorating; for want of use?
Perhaps it is waiting' now for someone to play it.
What is the good of letting it stand idle month
after month?
Why not obtain a PALING PLAYER. PIANO
instead of it? We will taKe the silent Piano as part
payment.
Then yon will have the most enjoyable and
entertaining instrument yon can purchase.
No need then to wait on anyone to play for yon-
yon can do mnch better than that. Yon can play your-
self, and enjoy yonr music just as often as yon liKe.
Please write to ns and we shall be pleased to send
yon full particulars, and will value yonr present
Piano free of charge.
Why not come in to-day and hear our superb
Player Pianos? They are the very best value
obtainable at the price.
We Sell on
Time Payment
W. H. PALING & GO. LTD.
Est. 1853
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle and Lismore.
S 9
V
7
' /
L
*
Welding- 18in diameter Steel Gas
Main at Newcastle, N.S.W.,
by Messrs. Stewarts
& Lloyds.
WEUM/fO
J NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS,
COG WHEELS, etc.
THF DAY OF THE EXPERT. To-day is the day of the expert—the man who knows every detail of his work
—who is thorough, efficient and up to date. The engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
he conversant with every engineering method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship, and for economy.
THE ENGINEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxy-Acetylene process is not abreast of the times; he is
at big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to the charge of incompetence.
Any work of Iron or Steel welding or cutting- can be carried out with Oxy-Acetylene. It is revolutionising
the Engineering trade. Broken parts that once were useless can now be successfully welded and made new
again This too in the matter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
of pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
C. „ J 111.. U 4-i ,-.Vx nmi *■»« 4-1
Ml Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able' variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process will make new again:
aua inat-uiiiv* j I-* - - “
Cracked ov broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes,
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Atom Reyways in Shafts.
Pieces wielded to broken Gears and New' Teeth Cut, etc
Broken Machinery of anv kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous Welding,” published by Charles Griffin & Co., London, states:
“Within the last few vears welding by oxy-hydrogen and oxy-acetylene blow'-
Dioes has been applied in thousands of workshops.” Those workshops which are
raoidlv adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.,
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
m
L
Agents-
MPT BOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street,
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.
Fractured Cylinder Repaired by H. Williams
Oxy-Acetylene Works, Flinders Street,
Adelaide.


Impossible for Russia to improve her
military position without the severest mili-
tary discipline, which seems impossible to
secure without a Military Dictatorship,
opines that wise and royal spirit King
George IV. topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCAROIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Shaving with an old-fashioned
razor is nothing but a habit.
Once try a Gillette and you
would not go back to the old
style for ten times its cost. The
W OO NO STROPPING
NO STROPPING NO HONINO
makes shaving easier, more
comfortable and cheaper.
Sold everywhere.
British made. Write'for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
TRADE
MARK
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Direct
to
YOU
The above is a photo-
graphic illustration of a
POSTAGE PAID (No. 240).
For
37/6
STETSON Velour SUPER-HAT
SIGN
mo
m
A
e *CF
t ‘‘Made in America by Stetson
lioies nothing better to be obtained in the Commonwealth at 37/6-
Send your size, select color, remit 37/6 and you will receive
hat in good order by return post.
STETiON VELOURS are stocked by us in the following colors:
Black, Light Fawn and Dark Slate, with Black Bands. Bows at side or back.
HENRY BUCK & CO.,
74 Swanston Street, corner of
Queen's Walk, MELBOURNE.
Write for Catalog “B '> f or Shirts, Underwear, etc
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Mick simmons
[?]g g[?]
[?]
The strike drove the Rosehill Racing Club
in from the outer suburb it inhabits to race on
Saturday at Randwick. The change did nobody any
harm. There was a big crowd and good -racing; and
as the horses were performing- on a course where big
things are to happen a fortnight later, the light
shed on the A.J.O. programme was suspected to have
a greater significante than usual.
The crowd at Randwick had a chance of seeing
Biplane differently ridden or in a better frame of
mind, or something, and most of them got as big a
shock as the Chelmsford Stakes provided. It hap-
pened in the Rosehill Guineas, a mile and a furlong
event, colts Bst. 51b., fillies 51b. less. At a mile the
Maorilander struck the front, and running on at his
own gait stayed there, winning under a pull by a
clear three lengths from Prince Viridis and Baltic
Sea. He carried 31b. more than he did on the
previous Saturday, and clipped nearly 2sec. off the
time registered in the Stakes, wherein he behaved
like a superannuated mule. The clock showed
“52i,” which is only Isec. outside the record set up
by Woorak with Bst. 21b. aboard in September, ’l4.
it was an exceptionally fine gallop, and the reversal
of "form moved the public to loud, prolonged groans.
In less time than it takes to boil an egg, the colors
had become about as popular as beer with a fly in
it. If they miss the Derby the enthusiasm will be
tremendous.
The previous Saturday’s running called for the sus-
pension of judgment as to whether Biplane was up
to Derby form. The Guineas performance leaves no
doubt that he has to be seriously considered. Prince
Viridis, it is true, had a very po,or passage. He got
away badly, he was jambed at the turn when moving-
through on the rails and was knocked almost down
on his nose. By the time the little chap was pulled
together Biplane had the race in hand —to this ex-
tent, at any rate, that he could only be beaten by
turning it up or the opposition taking to wings.
The Prince made a gallant effort to reach the leader,
but it was scarcely worth while. Whether he could
have won with a good run is problematical. The
view of this page is that, had the pair been together
at the distance, Biplane, provided he stuck to the
job in an argument as well as he applied the speed-
ing-up process to himself when alone, would still
have been a winner.
With another three furlongs to go and more weight
to carry? Well, here are two colts that have won
over nine furlongs, each beating the other, and
Thrice that won over a mile at two years, and at
least three other possible nags all in a race which
has often gone to animals that had not been recent
winners. There is also the circumstance that no
Rosehill Guineas winner has yet won the A.J.O.
Derby. All of which makes the event at the end of
the month a subject of great disputation, and many
reputedly sane citizens are prepared to risk their
cash on the outcome. Next week’s hurry-up is going
to be full of interest. If you don’t believe it, ask
Ikey.
The running of Biplane is another instance in
which gross injustice may be done to an owner and
to the public by the fatheaded system of leaving in-
quiries into a horse’s performances clothed in mystery.
After the Chelmsford Stakes the stipes held a sit-
ting. Subsequently it was announced that they
“accepted the explanation.” What was it? No
explanation was made known. In that event Biplane
ran with hock boots, and there is a yarn that as
these were uncomfortable the nag turned sour. If
this is the explanation the stipes accepted, it should
have been communicated to the public. No possible
reason can be advanced for silence in such a ease.
Of the older horses running at Randwick
on Saturday nothing did better than that good and
often unlucky horse Cetigne, winner of the Spring
Stakes, w.f.a. Shrill and Colugo were first into the
straight, with Chantemerle and Sasanof next, then
Wedge, Wedding Day, Cetigne and Quirologist. As
Chantemerle cut down the leaders, Cetigne, Wedge
and Quinologist closed up, and Cetigne, coming with
a tremendous run, smothered Wedge, left Quinolo-
gist well astern, and won bv three lengths. He ran
the mile with 9st. 31b. in “38.” If he
does it again in the Metropolitan, whatever
beats him will have to move very fast. But
the relation, on paper, of w.f.a. to handicap form
gets badly tangled up in practice, as a rule, and
this writer looks for the Metrop. winner to emerge
from lower down the list than Cetigne, brilliant
galloper though he be. Wedge did very well. Quin-
ologist suggested that, with a little more work, he
may like a mile as well as any other distance.
* » * *
Norbury. winner of last Newcastle Cup
and the most recent Rosehill Handicap, was generally
regarded as a distance horse, and no one took much
notice of the circumstance that he had been doing
sprinting work on the track for several weeks.
Therefore when Israel called 15 to 1 Norbury just
before the Camellia Stakes, 6 furlongs, was run at
Randwick on Saturday, not much notice was taken.
Sweet Corn (the M.L. sprinter), Auberie, Snow
King, Blue Bolt, Satin Bird and Lucky Dip were
being inquired for instead. But at the business end
of the proceedings Norbury ran clean over Sweet
Corn and hopped over the line a conspicuous winner,
with Snow King- second. The incident drew atten-
tion to the fact that Norbury has Bst. 21b. in the
Epsom, and as this is 101 b. less than he had aboard
in the six-furlongs event he came into the betting
with a hang.
* * * *
The “curtailment of sport” decided upon
by the Federal Government as necessary to bring the
war to a victorious conclusion will still leave Syd-
ney 117 days’ racing per annum. Of these the
A.J.C. is allotted 12, the two Tattersall's Clubs four,
Hawkesbury two, the proprietary horse clubs 31,
pony and all-height outfits 48, and the trots 20.
As a war-winning arrangement the thing is farcical.
As a step towards putting the turf on a less question-
able basis the allocation would be idiotic. Appar-
ently the Federal Government, having pulled the
public’s leg so enthusiastically at the general elec-
tion, felt that it had to do something or other to
Win the War and instructed Red Tape to get busy.
How many additional lecruits are expected to now
offer for service and where the public or private
“saving” will be through this exhibition of futility
has not been explained—and never will be. If 56
per cent, of these clubs were rubbed out and most
of the remnant compelled to alter their character,
the curtailment if not of sport at least of its system-
atic abuse might nave been worth taking apprecia-
tive notice of.
N. S Wales Government has fallen on
MaeShortodds with a heavier ticket tax, and from
that portion of Israel which does a ready-money
business, restricted to limited amounts, the wail over
the bad news that the Government wants 2d. has
been loud and long. An issue of 1000 tickets means
£8 6s. Bd., which in many cases is a very serious
consideration. If the reader is misguided enough
to take two dollars to a half about something, the
transaction yields- the Crown an unquestionable tup-
pence. But when the writer goes proudly along and
lays £6O to £4O on the nod, Ike hangs on to the
tuppence, whatever happens. It is the small bettor
and small fielder who gets squeezed by this business.
AVhy not stop wolfing 7 per cent, of the tote money
and put the lot through the machine?
The innards of the big totalisator house in
the paddock at Randwick are practically in order.
The mill gets its first run on Epsom day.
* * * *
Wonderful how the absurd Tichborne
case continues to live in Australian memory. It is
50 years since Arthur Orton, known hereabouts as
Tom Castro, went hesitatingly to England to claim
tiie Tichborne estates, and was exposed as the
fattest and most futile of impostors. But there is
oven now a nag called Tom Castro in work at Caul-
field. Heaven knows when the once notorious names
of Roger Tichborne, Orton, and Castro will cease to
be kept green on the Australian turf.
“G.C.” : The hallkeeper and his assistant
were messing about behind the stage. The hallkeeper,
a thoughtful bloke, led off with, “Did you see in th’
papers that they don’t b’lieve Kitchener’s dead ?
Give us the ’ammer.” The assistant: “ ’Ere y’ are!
Oh, ya can’t take no notice of th’ blanky papers.
They’ll print anything. Why, only the other day
they ’ad Maldon King scratched for th’ mile-an’-’alf
and ’e started !”
* * * *
“Saddle” : Here’s an unfailing remedy for
horses that are liable to go off their feed when being
wound up for racing, or any prad that wants condi-
tion —sassafras bark. The best method of using is to
boil a few pieces in a kerosene-tin of water and
moisten each feed with the liquid.
“Trot”: Wanted a definition of “sports-
man.” Obviously the term ‘“sportsman” and the
phrase “a sport” are taking on a new significance.
It seems a cleaner and a better one, too. To call a
CAMPBELL
Billiards Champion
of Victoria.
man a sportsman merely
because he owns horses,
or races them, or bets on
them, or goes to races is
clearly ridiculous. The
majority of such men are
not sportsmen and never
can be. Bookmakers are
not sportsmen. No ore
who lavs you a stumer
can be even a spefrt. To
call an individual a
sportsman merely be-
cause he liberates a big
dog after a hare
amounts to defamation
of character so far as
the word is concerned. A
pug cannot possibly be
a sportsman even in the
most remote sense, for
to be so would seriously
interfere with business.
Vet, like the horse and
dog specialist, he may be
“a sporting man,”
which means something
very different. The best
definition I have seen of
a sportsman is “a man
who tries to do the fine
thing.” Can anyone
better this? It makes
Billjim the best sports-
man Australia knows
and turns a multitude of
scheming sports into the
crooks they always must
he.
“Spreader” : One result of having the tote
at Randwick will be to clear up all doubt about
starting price. Here is an example of what happens
under the old system. Kenerette, winner of the
hurdles at Randwick on Saturday, is quoted in one
paper at 10 to 1; in another at 14 to 1. Just
before the barrier went up I saw 150 to 10 taken in
one hand.
* » * »
Boxing in Sydney is being curtailed to
“one major contest a fortnight” and as many minor
disturbances in the interval as you like, provided
the cost of a ticket thereto does not exceed 2s. No
need for anticipating a serious breach of this pro-
giamme, anyway. The main trouble, if the war con-
tinues more than 17 years, may be to live up to it.
* * * *
A good hiding, with the recompense of a
good gate, generally waits for the man who fancies
his chance against Llew Edwards. Eugene Volaire
took a fair share of both at Brisbane on Saturday.
There was something doing every round, mostly con-
tributed by Edwards. For two sessions Volaire was
entertained with unsympathetic welts around the
heart. These instilled into him the wisdom of admir-
ing Llewellyn from afar. Into the subsequent long-
range biff the Frenchman put more ginger, and by
use of head and heel he frequently made Edwards
look cheap. He added occasional' left hooks and
right swings for emphasis, seeing out 10 rounds in
comparative comfort, and thereby putting the kvbosh
on numerous rash layers of odds. France then be°-an
to grow war-weary, and after the fourteenth visit to
Wales was content to retire with a bunged-up ootic
and a busted fist. But it was a mighty good show-
ing, and the mob tried to yell “Vive Volaire”
* * * *
In one Gippsland district there are so
many women knocking out a living in the timber
with the usual axeman’s kit that an axewomen’s con-
test has been mooted. The best axewoman’s record
for an 18-inch block, standing cut. is onlv a
second and a point under that of the male champion
and the damsel, who is 19 and five feet eight in her
shoes, is belting away with a settled determination
to establish the equality of the sexes. In this
locality three girls of one family have taken a con-
tract for 100 trucks of blocks for the Melbourne
market, and are rapidly delivering the goods.
Pyrmont terminated the Sydney Soccer
season in a blaze of glory, wiping out Balmain in the
city championship final by five goals to one. Bal-
main had been successful in both other matches this
season (3 —1 and 4 —3) ; but the offensive rushes by
Pyrmont’s energetic forwards,. Moore (three goals)
and McLean (two goals), knocked the previous
winners to smithereens. Balmain, however, takes a
morsel of comfort from having the biggest-majority
victories of the season: B—o8 —0 and 7—-0, both against
Newtown. In the latter match Angus Forbes booted
5 of the 7.
* * * *
G. Waddle, of the Launceston (Tas.)
Kookaburra miniature rifle club, the other day
scored the possible (100) four consecutive times
from scratch. Forty shots were fired from a distance
of 25 yards, under artificial light, at a bull’s-eye
smaller than a traybit. The weapon was an old
1904 .22 Winchester.
Joe Taylor, who has scored and umpired
for Melbourne Cricket Club for 35 years, has been
reminded by his eyes not to do it any more. The
old man has scored every inter-State and inter-
national match played on the ground for over a
quarter of a century. Few men have a better col-
lection of yarns about big bits, great catches and
notable misses.
In a bicycle race from Footscray (Melb.)
to Werribee and back, 27 miles, on Saturday, a start
of 12min. was conceded to C. M. Clarke. But as
Clarke had to give a handicap of 40 years to some
of the others the proceedings were too strenuous for
him. Clarke is nearly 60 and a wonder. Though he
had passed the 50 mark before taking to the wheel,
he holds a medal for the performance he put up in a
Warrnambool-Melbourne road-race.
“Q.P.”: Re “Mat’s” (B. 13/9/T7) inquiry
for somebody who has done as well as Stan Wick-
ham in N.S.W. sport. Well, throw P. B. Colqu-
houn’s nomination in. He pulled on Ma’s Rugby
jersey t>. Queensland (seven times), M.L. (’B6),
England (’BB),* Maoris (’B9) and Victoria (’B9).
At tennis he lifted the inter-State racquet nine
times (’B9-99), held State doubles (’93 and ’96),
and mixed doubles ('95 and ’96). Two years
he tried golf w-ith Killara “A,” but gave it up,
perhaps through lack of vocabulary; and though
captain of Newington College at cricket he never
bothered to climb higher. Late in life he took to
bowls, and, besides defeating Harry Moses for
N.S.W. “singles” in 1916, he has rolled ’em up v.
M. Vic., Queensland, Tasmania and South Aus.
Then, on top of this mountain of effort, his tongue
won him a seat in N.S.W. Parliament. There wasn’t
much left worth bothering about.
Bill Trickett, who died at Norfolk Island
recently, was a top-notch oarsman in the ’7o’s. He
and brother Ned (who died at Sydney last year) were
rare scullers who shared in the harvest of all-
comers’ doubles which in those days were fought so
vigorously at Sydney regattas. Bill's best singles
efforts were the defeat of Mick Rush and E. Laycock
and Sid and Bob Edwards (Melbourne) in ’79; but
after Mick Rush had turned the tables in ’BO Bill put
the sculls away. With a better temperament he
might have been a world’s champion.
Young Australia was in rare form at the
N. S. Wales Great Public Schools championships at
Sydney last week. Nine “open” events were listed,
and in all except 220yds. this year’s efforts outshone
those of 1916. E. W. Carr (Sydney Grammar)
easily took the individual championship with suc-
cesses in 100yds. (10_4-ssec.), 220yds. (23 l-ssec.),
440yds. (53 l-10sec.—in one heat he equalled E. R.
Cox’s record of 52 3-ssec.) and the broad jump
(21ft. 4iin.). Carr won the 220yds. and 440yds. at
the same meeting last year. R. S. Holcombe (C. of
L. Grammar) showed fine form in winning 880yds.
(2min. 4sec.) and mile (4min. 43 2-ssec.) ; while
another good effort was the win of H. Hawkins
(Grammar) in the 120yds. hurdles (17 9-10 sec.).
The high jump produced a fine country-bred lepper
in H. C. Hingst (Armidale), who cleared sft. 6in.
with a bound like a kangaroo. It was easily the
best high jump in all-schools’ meetings this vear.
The totalling of points gave Sydney Grammar School
the senior championship (36 points). For the
junior titic Newington and High School deadheated
ll points each. The fly in the ointment was
the lack ot Somebody to restrain exuberant youths
trom endeavoring to wipe up the programme. Too
many promising young athletes have in the past
gone to the scrapheap with over-strain; and some
judicious advice before and after these meetings
would certainly be for the good of athletics and the
welfare of athletes.
Two giant Cornstalks stood clear of the rest at
the meeting of schoolboys. H. Reid (Scot's), a 15-
year-old of 6ft. 2m., performing in the “under 16”
class won 100yds. (11 3-10 see.), 220yds. (24 2-ssec )
broad jump (18ft. 6in.). F. Stayner, a 16-year-old
sapling of 6ft. is a promising hurdler and
jumper. Stayner turns the scale at 12st. 91b. ; Reid
at 12st. 81b. Why not have a caber-tossing event
for nippers like these?
* * * *
“Wart”: About seven years ago the big
trout in Great Lake (Tas.) were attacked by a
fungus disease and died in hundreds, and the repu-
tation of the lake as a fishing ground was mud. But
its ali right now. One party of four in one day’s
fishing lately caught over 3cwt. of fish—heaviest,
for* AustraTask. 6 ’ * ' TWs is P?obably a record
“Corrigenda”; The life-historv of the
fresh-water eel (B. 6/9/’l7) may have been instruc-
*lve,An day, but we live and learn, and as far
as this subject goes we have a lot to learn vet
Some 65 years ago, when a schoolboy, I, with other
boys, caught hundreds of immature' eels measuring
from two to four inches in length, and about as
thick as a knitting-needle. Thev came down through
a mill-iaee whilst the mill was not workin"-. This
J , wa ® about 30 miles from the sea and in the
midst of a densely-populated area, in one of the
largest cities of England. In the same city a
reservoir was abandoned, and when the water was
drained off thousands of eels of all sizes were
removed from the bottom. Does “Trot” know where
t u ese f, e i s came fro , m > or oan he furnish nothin
than “flat contradiction” ? s more
To which “Trot” replies: How can anyone sav
where these “immature eels came from ? Who'said th
were eels, anyhow, and what does it matter if tw
were? The certain thing is they were hatched in
the sea; so, too, were the animals in the reservoir
If “Corrigenda” wants to learn, let him read ud his
subject and stop thinking in little circles « L
wants to electrify biological science all the world
over let him produce an ova-bearing eel out of fresh
water. In the meantime I lay him 1000 to 1 L
cannot do it.
* * * *
“E.W.” : On the Avon River (Vic.) I have
fished for hours when there was an east wind blowina
without getting a bite. Hut a westerly wind give"
the fish an immediate appetite, and they bite at any-
thing. At certain times mullet come up the Avon
through the Gippsland Lakes, and when they begin
biting, the man at the business end of a line has"to
work overtime. They even take the bare hook and
thousands of fish may be caught in one day. l’have
seen a sack filled with fish that were extracted bv a
couple of rods.
“The Man in the Scrub”: All I can say is
that if eels don’t breed in fresh inland water they
must develop wings and fly into the dam opposite
Grace Bros.’, Sydney. It is full of eels, but thev
have never been observed in George-street either
going to or returning from the sea. If a dam is duo-
in a paddock for stock, little eels will soon appeal"
but no adults. The fish arrive the same as mos-
quitoes in a rain-barrel, grubs in cheese or bullfrogs
in a pond.
*** • *
“Pick”: The platypus-hunter who claims
to shoot his game always through the beak to avoid
spoiling the skin is a fraud. The platypus is easily
killed, or at least stunned, by concussion, and a
bullet striking the water within a yard of him will
almost invariably cause him to float helpless on the
surface. Once I saw a rabbit similarly knocked
out. He was basking beside a rock when a rifleman
plugged at him with a .303 cartridge. It was a
clean miss, but the concussion from the bullet on
the rock spun the cottontail off the face of the
earth, and when he dropped back we post-mortemed
him to prove the bad marksmanship.
* * * ft
“V.”: The “wild turkey” (the name is
a libel on our magnificent bustard) sometimes lays
two eggs, but, I think, most often one only; hence
the bird, apart from the havoc wrought in its ranks
by rabbit poison and foxes, is likely to become
scarce. Before the rabbit skipped across the Divid-
ing Range I have counted over 30 in one flock on the
Monaro Plains, which they visited annually, in
summer, rearing their young and departing west-
ward in autumn. Extra-large birds stood about sft.
in height, and would turn the scale at anything from
161 b. to 201 b. The breast flesh is dark and the rest
white, and all of it most “gamey” in flavor. A
couple of young bustards captured on Monaro graced
the old Zoo at Moore Park, Sydney, for some years.
The large egg is olive-green or olive-brown in ground
tint, blotched with dark brown, and is laid in a
slight depression in the soil, like that of the land
curlew, or stone-plover. Even on the Monaro high-
lands the bustard is now exceedingly rare.
Another political exhumation is to be
attempted in Victoria. The friends of
Walter Grose, who used to represent the
Creswick electorate that was obliterated after
Federation, are trying to find him another
seat in the Assembly. Grose is an auc-
tioneer at Creswick.


YOU’D BE AN EASY MARK FOR A
SCIENTIFIC BOXER—
because you’re inexperienced and untrained. You’d be flurried and ex-
consequently leave openings which would enable your opponent
to deal it out * to you. Ilis scientific knowledge would enable him to
draw you on. He’d be calm and collected, and make every blow make a
mark. YOU’D be unable to penetrate his defence, and have to suffer the
humiliation of being defeated—possibly by a smaller man.
There’s no excuse for you not knowing how to box —I can teach you in
your own home.
My Postal Course oj f Boxing
will enable you to become a sound, practical and
scientific boxer. My course explains simply and con-
cisely every serviceable move—every efficient lead,
counter, guard, feint, etc.
Letters reach me by every mail by pupils all over
the world, who express their great satisfaction at
the rapid progress they have made under my tuition.
Here is one :
“Before starting on your boxing instruction 1
was of the opinion that a. boxer had to be BORN.
However, I anr now satisfied that your lessons will
make any man efficient in the art of self-defence.”
(Signed) G. M. R —- —•,
Peeramon, Queensland.
I should like to send you a copy of mv interesting
booklet, “SCIENTIFIC BOXING IN YOUR HOME,”
which tells all about my methods, fees. etc. Just
write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and send it to me, with three penny stamps
for postage. I will know what you mean.
k
REG. L. (Snowy) BARER,
“ The all-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
679 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
£
Im
Wherever
You Need
Current
COLUMBIA
Batteries
are used to
run engines and
tractors, motor
cars and motor
boats. They
ring bells; oper-
ate telephones
and signals; light
lanterns and portable lights-
Columbia
Batteries
are all-round utility batteries. They
operate as well for heavy as for light
work. They are portable, compact,
non-corrosive—easily connected in the
circuit. Dependable, uniform, strong,
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are
so constructed as to give satisfactory
results under every
climatic condition.
They are protected by
moisture-proof cartons
and carefully packed.
Dealers: I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland”
\-ro2«,£§<i
JOUHQI
yfe-Qdtoj
Reliable Dry Cells.
Especially Manufactured to withstand
AUSTRALIAN CLIMATIC CONDITIONS.
Long Life. Low Internal Resistance.
“R.S.C.” (Blue Label), for BELLS,
TELEPHONES, MEDICAL BATTERIES,
etc.
li volts, size 2iin. x 6in. Price 2/- ea.
“RAMSAY” (Red Label), for IGNITION
and all other work requiring HEAVY
CURRENT and QUICK RECUPERATION.
1| volts, size 2sin. x 6in. Price 2/9 ea.
1| volts, size 3in. x 7in. Price 3/11 ea.
If your Dealer does not stock, send for
Pamphlet 8.30 to
Ramsay Sharp 8 Co. Ltd.
217 George Street, SYDNEY.
Indent and Trade quotations for the above, also
for “ COLUMBIA" and “HOT-SHOT” Batteries
supplied on request.
HUSH
m
THE CHOICE
OF THE PEOPLE
THE WORLDS BEST
Times when“the other fellow”
wishes he owned an“INDIAN”
When his power fails —
he wishes his engine was the power-
ful “ Pow.rplus motor.
When he runs out of
petrol —he wishes he had the big
3 gallon Indian tank with its emer-
gency supply.
When the road is rough—
he wishes he had the Indian Cradle
Spring Frame which makes rough
going smooth.
When he wants to sell—
he wishes h's machine had the high
gecondhand value of Indian.
X
it
j SECOKDHMO ngiDftOO.^l
/■4O
Don’t have
after regrets
—buy an
0
Catalogue
with
Plea*ure
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty.
Ltd 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd., 166 Castlereagh
Street
ADELAIDE : Eyes * Crowle Ltd.. 75-79 Pirie
S.reet.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
Ltd.. Adelaide and Creek Streets.
LAUNCESTON : John King & Sons Ltd.,
Charles Street
PERTH : Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency,
Hay Street.
•ATO*
«841
Wiiie for Particulars and Quotations.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
3ali Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Even in
the Air
N
where consistent high quality of motor spirit is a vital necessity,
NATIONAL
BENZINE
has stood the test, whilst Racing, Road Tests and Daily Service
are irrefutably proving its great superiority. Its quicker “pick
up,” greater driving force, and “miles further”
economy are making it the standard fuel for
Motor-Cars, Motor-Cycles, Motor-Boats and Farm
and Factory Plants EVERYWHERE.
Test “National” Benzine with YOUR Engine. It
will pay you WELL.
Obtainable all Garages
and Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
m
i
*
K
m
0
x>
for
Gillette
Blades
irutenioiu? patent
‘"with spiral leather
covered rollers...
The perfect
principle of
St roppW-feGillctte
blades
No ;skill is required
Ton turns equal
22 inch strop ...
Ask yoar dealer
to demonstrate
Howthc novice
matches the
expert
IF UNPROCURABLE
WRITE
PARTRIDGE AGENCIES I?
BOX 1003 G.PO. SYDNEY
BOX \*k C.PO.
AUCKLAND N.Z.


SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
F HE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines,' or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia. Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane; or
193 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Secret of a Long',
Happy Life.
A TREATISE of priceless value written by a
specialist in the treatment of stomach and bowel
troubles has just been published, explaining the
Causes, Effects and Treatment of Constipation.
It tells how Nature will restore your birthright
of Health. Success and Happiness without-the use
of medicines, injections, special foods, laborious exer-
cise or apparatus.
Elbert Hubbard says: “In the race of life the
man with educated bowels will eclipse the man with
an educated brain.’’
FREE TO ALL WHO DESIRE IT.
This enlightening work—the result of years of
experience and study—will be sent you bV return
mail absolutely free. ’Write to-day. Enclose 2d.
postage.
J. P. GALE,
329 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rr=
Don't forget to use
Calvert's
yCARBOUCI)
Tooth Powder
to - night—and again
in the morning.
You will find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the teeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester, England.
TO MAKE
DELICIOUS JELLIES
USE ONLY
JELUNE
.
PURE FRUIT JUICES USED
FOR ALL FLAVORS.
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO.,
WATERLOO, SYDNEY.
Agents.
BRISBANE: A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.
MELBOURNE: P. W. HEYMAN.
HOBART: AGENCIES LTD.
ADELAIDE: AGENCIES LTD.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
THE
FROM ANY RANGE
TRIO
SHIRTS COLLADS&PYJAMAS
SECURE THE POSSIBLE FOR
THE QUALITY SHIELD.
Men who recognise the
importance of cut. fit and
finish in Shirts. Collars
and Pyjamas, find their
ideal in PELACO The
workmanship and care
exercised in making
PELACO garments, has
resulted in producing a
quality far above the
average, and better
than the average
best.
J
<4
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Ru-ber-oid Roofing
Is Kasy to Lay
The illustration above shows how it is applied. The only
tools required are a hammer and a knife. You can put it
on quickly and easily. You need no experience to make a
permanent, repair-proof, rot-proof, leak-proof roof with
lutssfesio
COSTS MORE - WEARS LONGER
Special large-headed, zinc-faced
sherardized nails come in every
roll. These nails cannot rust or
loosen. They are much better than
tin caps and are easier to use.
A can of RU-BER-INE Cement, for
the laps, is also packed in every roll.
1 his cement is the same as the coat-
ing of RU-BER-OJO itself, and cannot
crack, run or decay.
Eight square feet of extra roofing
are included in every roll, to allow
ror two-inch laps.
Tell us the size of your roof and
we will tell you exactly how much
you will need and what
it will cost you.
Come in and examine this roofing.
It costs more than low-grade roofing,
but wears longer and is cheaper
by the year. Many ||lJ-BER'OiQ
roofs put on more than 20 years
ago are still watertight.
There is only one Ru -BER-010
The genuine has the “Ru-ber-oid
Man’’ (shown above) on every roll.
Vgent.H. KIXGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBIXSOX & CO. LTI)., Melbourne
A. W. SAXDFORD & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
try it in your bath
BV
appointment
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
Winchcombe, Carson. Ltd. * Sydney),
pastoral property and products' salesmen
I the deficit to start with consisted of good-
will less reserves transferred from the old
co.) :
Towards. De-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. licit.
1910.. £31,729
1911. . £20,-214 6 p.c. =£11,212 £9002 22,727
1912.. 17.893 6 „ „ 12,345 5548 17,179
1913.. 17,834 6 „ „ 12,345 5489 11,690
1914.. 21,100 6 „ „ 12,345 8755 2,935
1915.. 13,819 6 „ „ 12,345 1474 1,461
Reserves.
1916.. 21,811 7 „ „ 14,403 7408 5,947
1917.. 22,600 7 „ ~ 14,403 8197 14,144
This co. has suffered extraordinary changes
in the personnel of the management since
the prospectus was issued seven years ago.
The first accounts were presented by F. E.
Winchcombe, David Carson. E. J. Turton
and C. L. Wallis as managing directors, and
Ilunter White and Arthur S. Barton as
common or garden members of the Board.
Hunter White resigned in 1914 and was
succeeded by W. L. Willcox. of Beanbah.
Within a year he was dead. Then Mr.
Mallis retired. Early in the past year
A. S. Barton and E. .T. Turton died; and
with the death of F. E. Winchcombe from
exposure when the Mongolia was mined,
David Carson was left as the sole survivor
of the original Board. He has been joined
as managing directors by Harold Bell and
J. F. Bowden. Incidentally Tom Davies,
the public accountant on whose report the
co. was floated, has also passed over. Davies
valued the goodwill then at £72,950. Actu-
ally the new co. paid £41,983, less about
£lO,OOO of reserves taken over from the
old proprietary co. In view of the awful
liability of people to die, the £BO.OOO-odd was
quite enough to pay for the business.
*••••#
The net profits for the preceding live years
were certified to have averaged £20,774. For
the past five years, notwithstanding that
£lOO,OOO more capital was put into the busi-
ness, the average has been only £19.433. And
it would have been less but for the war price
at which the British Government bought the
whole wool clip last year. 8o far as the
wool business is concerned the co. appears
to be quite holding its own. The co. was
floated on the figures of 1905-9 inclusive.
During that period 104,676 bales were the
most that were handled in a year. Last
year the turnover was 108,379 bales, and
the year before that 119.661 bales. The
fat stock handlings are, on the other hand,
less satisfactory.
Soon after the co. was formed it was
decided to push business in Queensland, and
extensive premises have been provided in
Brisbane. Freeholds, valued at £81.522 at
the outset, have thus been increased to
|l5B-415 —a large slice out of the capital,
£-05,735. To finance the business (and the
co. does a good deal of financing) the direc-
t.‘*rs have had to incur liabilities totalling
£-74,728, including £78,345 then owing bv
the Government on account of wool pur-
chases and apparently all advanced to the
growers. The total of the advances as at
June 30 was £808,344; and other assets,
apart from the premises, and exclusive of
goodwill, were valued at £36.098. Goodwill
still stands in the books at the original
£41,983. The valuation of goodwill is ex-
ceedingly difficult. In this case it is certain
that, whatever it is worth, it is largely the
creation of men who are no longer able to
help the business; and how long the value
they gave to the business will persist after
they are gone is very doubtful. The men
who succeed them may be better than they
were. That certainly has happened before
to-day. But there is a risk about it. As
good fish are in the sea as ever were caught,
no doubt : but the other fellow is as likely
to catch them as we are.
* * » *
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.I ;
Profits. Dividends. - Reserves.
Dec., 1909. . £5431 5 p.c. =£2500 £53,982
June, 1910.. 1797 5 „ „ 2500 53 279
Dec., 1910.. 6808 6 ” ” 2500 57^87
Ju " e - 1 n 9 n I V 204 9 *- - 2500 57,136
£20,000 of reserves transfen«_<l to capital 32,136
Dec., 1911.. 7676 5 p.c. = 3125 36 687
June, 1912.. 2385 5 „ , 3105 25 947
Dec., 1912.. 5066 5 ” ” 3125 37*888
June, 1913.. 2450 5 „ „ 3125 37 913
Dec., 1913.. 9101 7 ” 4375 U 939
June, 1914.. 3006 5 „ „ 3125 41’820
Dec., 1914.. 7354 5 „ „ 3125 46,049
June, 1910.. 4587 5 „ „ 3125 47 511
Dec.. 1915.. 4312 5 „„ 3125 48 698
June, 1916 . 1094 5 „ „ 3125 46,667
Dec., 1916. . 4025 5 , 3125 47 567
June, 1917.. 3750 5 „;; 3125 48i192
Never in danger of being fined for exceedin'*'
the speed-limit, this 011 c. And the stock is
not a bit of good to the man who wants ex-
citement. Or to get rich quick. How the
co. can ever do very much better than it is
doing at this moment is not at all clear • for
it serves a district which is not suitable for
close settlement, and doesn’t appear to have
any mineral or manufacturing possibilities
whatever. It is good, sound grazing coun-
try. though subject more or less to
droughts But, after all. it is that which
makes the bulk of Australia the very sound
grazing country it is. Or goes a long way.
at any rate. So. serving such a district, the
co. docs not do badly, striking an average.
Besides paying its modest dividend it has
twisted its finances around in this fashion :
r . t 5907. 1917.
Liquid assets .. .. £9,510 £13,998
Liabilities . . . . 24,327 353
Excess liabilities ..£l4 817
Surplus as-ets .. . __ £13.645
The wiping out of the old debenture liability
a few years ago encouraged the co. to capi-
talise some of its reserves; so the 5 p.c. div.
now is as good as 6£ p.c. would have been
prior to 1011. And all the while the per-
manent way and plant are being kept as
good as new or thereabouts.


$
C>>
So
css
A
S'*
W
\
->■
s,
V
A
% c
:tx : '
4;
I
✓
Mr
*fe
(/-
>r
f
V
✓
■*>
\
e
J
O
/
zz*
4
\
CALVES THRIVEonMEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL
FARMERS’ TESTIMONY.
Mr .T R WOODWARD, Kinchela, says:-"I have been using your Linseed Meal for feeding pigs and calves, and find it highly satisfactory. I nse
the »* M«d. 1 use it for „,y horses, pigs, calves and ponltry, and And it all you claim it to be."
How to Feed Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal.
Linseed Meal
For Cows,
Calves,
Horses,
Pigs,
Poultry,
Sheep.
COWS> Leave your hay ration as it is and give 31b. Linseed Meal and 31b. of bran per day,
80aked F OWLS JX° r pS!n r g d o P ff r sSI^ m wS’ Xr ni aflowing
to'siand for'TfZ minntesfS the Sed Meal “which jrf absorb the remaining moisture, then mix
in the pollard or bran and make the whole a crumbly mash
HORSES. Add 3.04 J, per da, DRY « » " XV&jX.' uWSS
gradually by adding a small handful to each meal, slignuy moistening
stick to it. Gradually increase to full ration as your horses become accustomed to the taste, at the same
time reducing your supply of chaff and corn. , ~ , ■
CALVES. About Jib. per head per day. Dissolve Linseed in boiling water and add to slum
milk, 2oz. per head per dav, in specially nutted form. Can be spread on the ground with-
out waste. For Show Stock double the amount.
PIGS. Linseed Oil Meal and skim milk are an ideal food.
Your Storekeeper will explain why MEGGITT’S is Superior. Fuller particulars on application.
From all Stores
Melbourne
. _ a • Clarkson Ltd.. Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.,
e7wm. P AdTms Tco! Perth; F.' W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
Sydney,
N.S.W.


THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing' Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone ma , ny til " ea as eftltient
. , ... ! *nd powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
njid for all stapes of deafness .
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of onr Special Trial Offer
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 UEOROE STREET,
Tel. 391 fi City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
mpfi/tc p>/i
£5 to £lOO willingly given for
accepted Stories. We are commis-
sioned to tell you HOW and
WHAT to write gnd WHERE to
send your Stories for acceptance.
Send Stamp for particulars.
international playwrights,
Dept. A. Box 2042, G.P.0., Sydney.
Price
darby auto
SUPPLIES
SLk;
££6&
Hi
2'9
Post Paid
33-4 Elizabeth
STREET
MELBOURNE-
CAPILLARINE
<?
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
The ideal preparation for growing those
short, stubby moustaches affected by the
military is undoubtedly Capillarine. Hun-
dreds have proved its unfailing- merit. Send
for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10 6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 s years.
YOUR
FOOTWEAR
plays an important part in your
attire, therefore you should exer-
cise the utmost care in its selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are always correct in style, perfect
in fit and finish, and give the
utmost in long service.
We illustrate a choice Patent
Oxford Bal., with Dull Calf Legs.
Price - 47|-
In Ilighest-grade Tan Willow Calf,
same price.
Made in half and full sizes aud
in three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
When he
writes home
The world is brighter,
hearts are happier.
And in h s mind kind
smiling faces are pictured
as he writes. Oppor-
tunities for writing at the
front are fleeting. Many are lost for want
of an ever-ready pen. So a happy sug-
gestion is, send him a “Swan’ Fountpen.
SWAN
best stands the racket of Active Service. Simple
and quick to use. No mechanism to wear or get
out of order. Can be‘loaded’ with “Swan” Ink
Tablets and water when fluid ink is unobtainable.
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern - from 15/- up.
Standard Pattern from 12/6 up.
Illustrated Catalogue free on requtsi.
MABIE, TODD & Co., Ltd.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c'.
Sydney —(Wholesale only) 225 a, George Street.
Lo ion Factory—3l9 329, Was! on St., S E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New
York and Chicago.
►Australian Brain h : J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings,
' m *
V =V b.t.
H
\ s r»
r» \ v*
V ,'
I
Vj
Ji
Is
V
-«N - O-
/
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
I/O ALL CHEMISTS,
© r if not easily obtained write
W. 0. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO, 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
m
m
[8
<\ON
*
'• *•
•-j. •
•~£- «e
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £650,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors. Sm JOHN GRK'E Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHAP,D. Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Rr n-h ta . na9 J?- R CREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, south Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
4
w
m
es
m
V/
•• •
Ttfjf yiW^‘f^k2j
For Writing Home
* FILLER is bound to get
broken at the front.
Managing Agents:
The Onoto needs no filler; it fills itself from any
ink supply, and cleans the nib while filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position. You send
it out to your friend at the Front full of ink ready
for immediate use.
The nilitary»size Onoto Pen is just the right size
for a soldier’s pocket.
Needs
no
filler.
Onoto
14/0
25 Pen
Also ONOTO Valveless for those who do not want a
Self-Filling Safety Pen, from 10/6 upwards.
From all stationers, jewellers, and stores.
Manufacturers : Thos. I)e La Roe & Co., Ltd.
259 Buuhill Row, London, H.C.
Norman Baker & Longhurst, York Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Ilio: Sorry, no reference is permitted to
that matter—and to two or three others you have
lately dealt with. The censorship is in these days
not often referred to, not because it no longer
exists, but because the press has become used to its
outrages. It has been perverted by small politicians
and incompetent military people to hide their little-
ness and their incompetence and help them
to retain their jobs. .. .0.G.Y.: Thanks; the
world has one original joke. All others
are variations.... The Lamb: Tell it to the marines.
. ...Rayrnur: (1) Write and put your case; (2)
maybe there is “a sense of locality and a something
akin to the fitness of things,” but we haven’t its
address. Try the Governor-General.... J. Wood:
That’s closed.... G. A. H.: We’ll tell the girls....
Lackatoni: Doubt it.... Allan R.L.: You want (1)
Bs. (>d. for a letter on a road-board matter which has
appeared in print and which you didn’t write; (2)
return of the clipping “if unsuitable” at our ex-
pense (no stamp enclosed). Is there anything else
you’d like ?.... Bellerive: The story of how you get
your inspiration ought to be recorded:—
My shoulders stoop
And my eyes half close
As if sinking off
Into a quiet doze;
In peace my wife
Will let me think,
And place at hand
My pen and ink ;
Though grim ideas
Of the tragic kind
This for the pen
My poetic mind,
The tough and grey
Streaked hair of mine
Don’t raise like quills
On a porcupine.
. ...R.D.F.: No use.. .'.Chocolate: You haven’t got
the knack. .. .E.J.G.: That slither-and-bump metre
doesn’t suit the subject 0.8. A.: Not up I.O.:
Heavy, dull verse. You can’t rhyme “law” with
“door. ’.... E.G.: Fair verse; but sonnets must be
more than fair... .M.8.J.: Too commonplace....
Nob: It isn’t verse nor anything resembling- it; but
it is rot Rovert: No Lantana: “Old Diary”
doesn’t look genuine V.F.K.: None up. .. . J.D.B. :
Suitable for a book of moral tales for infants... .
A.P.F.: Don’t see by what sort of mental gymnas-
tics you can turn from the new-born day to face
yesterday W.P.: Out R.E.J.: Hopeless
M.M.: Try something in regular form.... Q.F.: “My
Window” is utter inanity. Anybody can string
loose words like that. .. . Uloo: If Spring were like
that we could get a carpenter to make it any time
of the year. . . ,'H.A.L.: Verse very p00r... .O.B.:
One sample:—
The boys they seek to have some fun —
Spin him up, Jim, heads I’D win.
Away she goes, heads had won :
Jim had lost; have one more spin.
The sovereign true is the best of friends ;
The Johns came up, which ended their game.
Poor Jim’s shot in, on his beam ends;
A better friend never was, where the sovereign
reigned.
E.J.M.: Horror presented in thick slabs of ill-
written commonplace... .R.H.M.: “Song of the
I\ aters” doesn t sing. It walks pompously, lifting
its feet a yarel off the ground and bringing them
down with a wriggle... .J.M.J.: Alleged poem is
bad prose V.C.W.: What was the yarn about
Peter Piper? \our line “Of Paradise pearl-paved
without a peer’ sounds like a continuation....
Adilipah: No. . . .F.8.Q.: It moved us to sniffs....
K.S.: Not up....P.C.: They won’t d0....K.G.:
“Silas Bown” is dreary stuff even where it is
moderately grammatical.. . .G.A.D.: Verse very poor.
. ...R.A.S.: Poor theme; lumpy verse.... F. J.: You
can’t make Dago talk by merely adding “a” to each
word where it is required to eke out a line,
dropping it everywhere else 1.H.: Nobody said
you couldn’t invent sounds to rhyme with anything—
words to rhyme were asked f0r.... Never Mind:
“Romance” not our sort A.M.: Can’t smile at it.
.. . W.S.K.: Couldn’t use “Burglar.”. . . .R.G.H.:
It’s sudden enough ; too sudden, in fact, to work its
own surprise G.R.H.: No better than it was
before.... The Farmer: You can't start a thing in
one metre and then bump off into another in that
fashion Le Noy: No use J.N.W.: Nothing in
it. .. . Elsie: Poor thoughts, worse verse. . . .R.McG.:
Not remarkable E.M.S.: No joy in them....
Roblin: No use. And w hat dirty copy !. ... A.8.C.:
Don’t get our angle Samoa: Not up: but we’ve
seen many worse first attempts,... G.H.D.: Doesn’t
get anywhere near E.L.S.: Two stanzas of dull
prose. .. .S.R.: Not much “Australian Poesy”
awakening in that J.C.A.: They ramble every-
where and get nowhere R.G.H.: “Ilis Madness”
doesn’t make us creep T.G.M.: Verv thin and
lumpy IV.L.: Doesn’t work A.H.P.: “Fair
play would suggest your publishing this.” Fair play
to our readers wouldn’t H. 8.: “Wood Pincher”
doesn’t get to grips with character. .. .Me: It
wakens our sympathy, but it isn’t bright enough
J.H.C.S.: No use to U5....R.P.; Nearlv. .. A.C T.:
Can’t make out what it means T.B; Boyish and
imitative; but he might do something. .. .Muggins:
The allegory drags a bit Ilopbooze: Get some
lightness into your work. It lumbers on from stiff,
overworked sentence to sentence with all the grace
of a bogged road-roller E.AV.D.: Makings of a
yarn; but why do your fishermen talk like retired
suburban grocers discussing the strike?... .J.W.8.:
No use. .. .X.Y.Z.: Ideas hardly more original than
your pen-name P.M.T.: Get away from that
rutted old track Learner: When did you ever see
any loose, rambling stuff of that sort in this paper?
....The Outlaw: Feeble, commonplace rhyming....
E.M.0.: Not w ell enough done R.M.8.: Small
idea poorly handled D.A.S.: Yarn w-anted a lot
more skill M.S.: “Tragedy” won’t do.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.: Two angular ladies posed for an amateur
photograph. No use here for them P. 8.: Im-
prove your drawing a lot G.M.M.H.1.: Beauti-
fully unreal people. Study.... H.V.11.: No itch,
thanks.... Roy M.: Dirty Dick has gone to the
river feet first Fred J.: You draw badly
E.F.8.: That jape is older than you are J*D.B.:
No, no! It is usually a military joke. You spoil
it by giving it to two civilians. .. .E.W.: Old as
tobacco S.G.W.: Far too rough M.S.: One of
your troubles is perspective S.E.: Go away and
study people in deck chairs before you draw them
again G.H.P.: Study and give the jumpy Rus-
sian Bear a rest. He never does the same thing
two days running R.E.S.: Pretty crude all round.
F.: In the woodcut class. .. .W.K. : Ydu don’t
deserve it, but we forgive you.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
v
m
fS €
'w
\
l
ri.'f
"i \\\ >. .v^m
W*\.\ \ Y\ sVS
• r a \ \ v<, -.. \
V’N\
4 0
v\\
Xs\V
]rj Wf -
- ,'gs- . “y* .•£•': •
; *£ .# Y S t§F ;YV
/' /< /,t '#* £ & '
L-tf --J yy ;•?-#: •;*
' ; y . ;,,f y. ..
!if
!/ f< 10M
■ / J?-Ki AW'd** ’/it "' '• '>•
7 »«> j- ,<y. Jff ... .- »
&w&>. *> .-<y ,X
-"v • -
i v#’ "o'xi'i
2 <t * \r
-
till
I-/.--- *’i
•pi 1
kl’
$k -•?
■y -is
V/
SCi
•/o
V*
„s^''
S«*' :
«r
w
Ah’
'jp >-•;-. ..->*
£
*0
rSSSi
■.■•.».-
1 «s?*!,
I Q L. C—«,*. -^~**^r!nmJmm
<j.
Cobra,” Sfte Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Helps his clever
Team-mates through.
When the guns have
Cleared the way
And the shell-bursts
Come like spray,
Here they’ll shelter
For awhile,
Then dash on
Another mile. v ,
Ham savs : " Smartest
J
Job I ve seen ;
" ••••' '• . Yr
‘COBRA’ work is
Quick and clean.”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe, Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Singlerberth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd..
Tel. City 1246. 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
’Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SVDNEY v
Brisbane
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) V
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
EOR MOVEMENTS
OF STEAMERS SEE
DAILY PAPERS.
m klbourne
("Transhipping foi •
S.A. and W.A. ports) j
‘Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies. Ac.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman);
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A.;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: .T. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
Bondon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
S&UTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated tinder the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. • ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Alt new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Ranking go.
of Sydney, Limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1.940,000 0 0
* Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,940,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chain nan.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Brandies throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Sank of (|nm Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and VVYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £ 529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,900)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
o:i Australia, New Zea
land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
.... in • •
at Interesr }or
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotei Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Ac, -
Canadiait-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
the largest, newest, fastest and best-equipped steamers trading between
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN EACTiI
RAILWAY, Across the Famous, CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIUIWB, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.). SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO. VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU, oV.M.tc 6
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
"Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.. 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
ikv-
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD tJ 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF NFW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Directors:
£3,894,980
£2,800,000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
The Hon. 3iv Charles K. ilaeliellar, Iv.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. .Tames T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund TV. Fosbery, C.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer. Esq.
Head Office St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C
331 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London. '
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
T, BCSSELT, FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
J£ank’ [ Hißtralta
SYDNEY. *
General Banking Business „&£!£*,
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Ranking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/.
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at o<y
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
James KELL, Deputr Go«mn. June, 1916 DENISOV MILLER
FARMERS S SETTLERS’ LOANS
The Commissioners are prepared to receive applications up to £7."»0 on the
following tenures:—
Freeholds; C.P’s. ; Homestead Brants; Homestead Selections; Settle-
ment Leases; Settlement Purchases; C.P. Leases; Additional C.P.
Leases; Special C.P. Leases: Crown Leases; Homestead Farm Leases;
Irrigation Farm Leases.
Rate of Interest, per cent.—Loans Repayable by
Half-Yearly Instalments in 31 Years.
Application forms obtainable at the Head Office or any Branch of the Bank and
at the offices of Crown Land Agents.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and Iron,
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORIALTA
S.S. RUPARA
S.S. PARINGA
SAILINGS CANCELLED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Comp.nie
on all services subject to conditions, which can b'
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
O. S. WILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Past Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney Mel
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa
as advertised in dailv newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
„ Regular stillings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street,Sydney *
Frequent Sailings
IX SOLID COMFORT
and
IX FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
, GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply: - OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia ami
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane: MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane: McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne amt
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD.. Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — . .
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BLLUNOEL,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND U\NMN<«
RIVERS: also to BYRON BAY, COI 1 S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination tickets are issued in conjunction
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND KAUAYAYb.
to include first- or second-oiass rail to BUISUA- l>
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Miinvilliiiiiwui,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence ni'ers.
there connecting with one of the Company s up-,
date liners for SY'DNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.— First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
Authorised Capital
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund
Esq.; GEORGE ‘F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
JAGO SMITH. M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector ]oc
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney. „ ..
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.J.
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New south
and Queensland. Agents throughout the
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, a
Chief Cities throughout the V> oriel.
Every Description of Banking Business Transac
Ll> AUSTRALIANS visiting
L should read the British At:stb
ian. Gd. weekly —an illustrated P
itaining mail and cable news ™ n * pe
lia and news of Australians in . - n .
I at home. Australians are cor
ed to visit the British He-
ading Room at the Offices. Ho “ =
•n. London. W.C., where -they can see
me papers, meet _ their friends. - tboa t
enhone. and obtain information
irge-. —.- -


This Task Need Not
Be Disagreeable
Shake a little Sani-Flush in-
to the bowl every few days.
It will keep it spotless, white
and free from odor. No dip-
ping —no scrubbing. Not a
general cleanser made for
cleaning toilet bowls only.
Sani-Flush
Ask Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani-Flush
or can get it quickly; or write
us a card giving your dealer’s
TfcM? >*
The trapl
*hich you 1
*®n't clean
Sam-flush .
name and
we will
have you
supplied.
Sani-Flush
should be
used wher-
ever there are
toilet bowls in
residences
and all other
buildings.
Does not in-
jureplumbing
connections
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N.Z.
109 Pitt St.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Obtainable from
JOHN HANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
r
-e
r
i r v
if
r
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—
so ‘Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘ Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
|7V
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over 10,000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England
bv COLEMAN & CO., Ltd,,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Passett &
Johnson. 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W,
/7 Wear r
(rossara
u CORNETS
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPO3IT OF
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 O „ „ £5O
£B7 10 O „ „ £lOO
£875 O O „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Ranks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank ok Australia. V4h March, 1917
60|-
POST
FREE.
4
The “ROLEX’
Highest - Grade Swiss
Watch, with Luminous
hands and Figures.
In Best=Quality Gold=
filled 10 = year Case.
Absolutely reliable under all climatic
condition*. A scientific timepiece—
manufactured, on the most modern
and approved principles, with lumin-
ous hands and figures.
PRICE, POST FREE, 60/-
STEWART DAWSON’S LATEST CATALOGUE of Rings, Watches, Jewellery
and Silver Plate is the Economist’s Guide Book to the purchase of Dependable
Gifts. We send it Post Eree.
STEWART DAWSONS,
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET* SYDNEY.
Worth double Its price
Wolsey is worth its cost —even at
double its price—because Wolsey
is pure wool, and is dependable.
The cleverest brains in Britain have
decreed that Britain’s fighting men
must wear wool next the skin there
is no better protection against the
vagaries of climate or its hardships.
The makers of Wolsey have made
millions of garments for Britain’s fight
ing men —Wolsey is the wear for you.
M
S 3?
vs
i
Pure Wool Underwear
For men, women, and children. Guaranteed
unshrinkable or replaced free. See Trade Mark.
Of ali the leading Drapers and Stores.
0 La
UNSMMNKAtU ,
* (gMK DESIGN, MATERIALS * 4/
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
Macmillan’s
Books on
Agriculture,*
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Trices outside
the liritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Principles of Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. CATTON GRAS BY,
P.L.S., Agricultural* Editor of the
Western Mail,' Lecturer in Agricul-
ture and Fruit Growing, Perth
(Australia) Technical School. Fully
Illustrated. 4s. (id.
Farm Management. By Prof. G. F.
WARREN. Illustrated. 7s. (id. net.
Farm ami Garden Rule-Book. By
Prof. L. H. BAILEY. Illustrated.
Bs. 6d. net.
Manual of Practical Farming. Bv
JOHN McLennan, Ph.M. Illus-
trated. 2s. net.
Manual of Farm Animals. By MElt-
RIT W. HARPER. Illustrated.
Ss. fid. net.
The Feeding of Animals. Bv W. 11.
JORDAN. 6s. 6d. net.
Principles of Feeding Farm Ani-
mals. By SLEETER BULL, B.Sc.
Illustrated. 7s. 6d. net.
Science of Dairying. By A". A. G.
PENLINGTON, M.A. Illustrated.
2s. Od.
Dairy Farming. By Prof. C. H.
ECIvLES. D.Sc., and Prof. G. F.
WARREN. Illustrated, os. net.
Dairy .Cattle and Milk Production.
By C. H. ECKLES, D.Sc. Illus-
trated. 7s. net.
The Principles of Agriculture.
Edited by L. 11. BAILEY. ss. 6d.
net.
The Principles of Agriculture. By
C. A. STEBBINS. M.S. Illustrated.
4s. (id. not.
The Wheat. Industry. By N. A.
BENGTSON, A.M., and D. GRIF-
FITH. A:M. Illustrated. 3s. net.
Field Crop Production. By GEORGE
LIVINGSTON. Illustrated. 6s.net.
The Principles of Agronomy. A
Text-hook of Crop Production. By
F. S. HARRIS. Ph.D., and GEORGE
STEWART, B.Sc. Illustrated. 6s.
net.
The Fertility of the Land. Bv
ISAAC PHILLIPS ROBERTS. 6s.
6d. net.
Soils: Their Properties and Man-
agement. By Prof. T. L. LYON,
Prof. E. O. FIPriN and Prof. 11. O.
BUCKMAX. Illustrated. Ss. net.
The Soil: Its Nature, Relations and
Fundamental Principles of Manage-
ment. By Professor F. H. KING.
6s. 6d. net.
The Chemistry of the Garden. By
Herbert il cousins, m.a.
With an introduction by J.
WRIGHT. F.R.H.S. Is.
Crops and Methods for Soil Im-
provement. By ALYA AGEE,
M.S. Illustrated. ss. 6d. net.
Soils and Plant Life as related to
Agriculture. By Prof. J. C. CUN-
NINGHAM and W. 11. LANCELOT.
Illustrated. ss. net.
Fertilizers: The Source. Character and
Composition of Natural. Home-made
and Manufactured Fertilizers; and
Suggestions as to their Use. By
EDWARD B. VOORIIEES. A.M.
Revised edition. 6s. 6d. net.
Manures and Fertilizers. Bv 11. J.
WHEELER, D.Sc. Illustrated. 7s.
net.
Farm and Garden Insects. By
WILLIAM SOMERVILLE, D.Sc.
With 46 Illustrations. Is.
Injurious Insects. By Prof. WAL-
TER C. O’KANE. Illustrated. Ss.
6d. bet.
Manual of Fruit Diseases. By L.
R. HESLER, A. 8.. Ph. D.. and 11.
11. WIIETZEL, A. 8., M.A. Illus-
trated. Bs. 6d. net.
The Principles of Fruit Growing.
By L. H. BAILEY. 20th edition.
7s. 6d. net.
Strawberry Growing. By Pjrofessor
S. W. FLETCHER. Illustrated.
. 7s. 6d. net.
The Pruning Book. By . L. 11.
BAILEY. 6th edition. 6s. 6d. net.
The Standard Cyclopaedia of Horti-
culture. By L. 11. BAILEY. In
6 vols. Illustrated. Mol. 1., A-B.
. Vol, 11.. C-E. Vol, 111.. F-K, - Yol.
IY., L-O. Vol. V., P-R. Yol. VI.,
S-Z. and Supplement. 255. net each.
The Principles of Vegetable Gar-
dening. By L. 11. BAILEY. Cr.
Svo. 6s. 6d. net.
Manual of Gardening. By L. 11.
BAILEY. Illustrated. Cr. Svo.
Bs. 6d. net.
.Macmillan's Illustrated List of Books
on Agriculture, etc., will be sent post
free on application.
MACMILLAN §CO. LTD.
. MELBOURNE and LONDON.


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
is now ob-
tainable at
no cost of
energy an “
very small
one 0 f
money.. by
using a
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor ee '
On sale by all the following nrm .
Write or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Fty.,
St., Melbourne; R. R. Russack,
Elizabeth St., Sydney; Philip FrankW
and Co.. Edward St., Brisbane;
and Crowle Etd., Pirie St., Adelaide-
Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., 1 ertU,
W.A.
\felteStx
SUMMER is almost upon us, the
time for holiday trips and long
tours. ORDER NOW, while the
price is still low. No better value
on the market to-day. The Name
guarantees the quality.
Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.,
26-38 CITt ROAD, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOE AUSTRALIA.
I;
mm
>•; -■
A Powerful, Silent, &
Beautiful & Luxurious Car.
SPECIFICATIONS are, briefly:
1 Wheel Bn sc: 115 inches.
Motor: Vflie Conti-
nental, six-cyhnde ,
3iin. bore, « in '
stroke.
Remy Ignition, with Automatic
Control or Magneto.
Stromberg Curbuletter new type.
Vacuum feed, 13-gallon
at rear.
Axles: Simkin front and rear.
Springs: Front, semi-elliptic; rea >
three-quarter elliptic, under
slung.
Klectric lighting and sta f tin f | - d
Equipment: One-man-type, 11
Khaki Hood, with envelope. &
curtains tilted, ventilating
vision wind-shield, Spee b j e
Electric Horn, ta
Rims, Tyre Holder, full 100
IN BANANA LAND
“Tas.”: Up north they don’t need special
acts of Parliament to deal with the I.W.W.
Recently a team of drovers with a mob of
cattle in the Cloncurr.v district decided on
a lazy strike and allowed the beef to wander
all over the landscape. This was too much
for the Australian boss drover, so he rolled
up his sleeves for Direct Action. After he
had scored four k.o.’s the turnout proceeded
on its way like the march-past at a military
review.
“M.”: A while ago The Bulletin criti-
cised Maryborough Council for dispensing
with its supervising engineer on the plea of
economy. Well, since Bumble took over the
job himself, this is how it has worked out.
The works committee decided to reconstruct
portion of the main street, and by giving it
a top-dressing of tar and sand expected some-
thing like an asphalt footpath. But, alas!
heavyweight vehicles leave furrowed trails.
The other day the Mayor ordered the steam-
roller along, but the chairman of the Works
Committee objected. They argued in the
middle of the street, cancelling each other’s
orders, and finally the Mayor suspended two
men for disobedience. Then the Mayor sum-
moned the aldermen to a meeting in the
street.. The men were instantly reinstated,
and at the next council meeting the aider-
men solemnly censured the Mayor. The
piece of botched roadway has already wasted
upwards of £2OO.
The voice of a sapper:—
Papers to hand state that the Australians have
been out of action for over three months owing to
lack of reinforcements. We know different. Accord-
ing to the same papers, Senator Pearce, who should
know better but evidently doesn’t, states that Aus-
tralian troops in Europe were never at any time
supplied with clothing, equipment or anything else
made outside Australia. At present Australian felt
hats are not to be had, and my tunic bears the name
of a Leeds firm. There is need for somebody to tell
Senator Pearce that he doesn't know much about his
job. lie even denied that we were issued with
foreign-made copies of Australian articles. It’s
because I can’t get anything else except bad copies
that I am still wearing the hat I brought from
Australia via Egypt, the English-made affairs being
thick and not finished with the clips, rims and straps
as ours are. The boots available are all patterns,
but Australian are not easy , to get.
Lewis McDonald, sec. of the executive of
the' Queensland Labor party, writes to
assure The Bulletin that the story that
ex-Speaker Willis has been selected for
Maranoa is not correct. Nominations haven t
closed yet, in fact.
“P.E.G.”: Mackay, producer of strikes
and sugarcane, has gone one better. At the
higher examinations there, Trinity College
examiner Vincent unearthed a girl of 16
who played a difficult fugue of Bach’s and
a Beethoven composition from memory.
Vincent classed her as note perfect; and,
besides, she played with great artistry. Once
again the uninhabitable tropics!
“M.P.A.” : Dr. J. 11. Waite, M.D., associated
with the International Health Board of the
Rockefeller Foundation, has spent some four
months in Papua investigating hookworm.
The interesting Yankee medico went to work
at the invitation of the Commonwealth, and
of the Papuans examined to date he has
found 65 per cent, affected. The hookworm
is a bloodsucker, a half-inch long, which
when young enters the human body through
the feet by boring into the skin and gradu-
ally working its way to the intestines, where
it lodges. Waite has examined Papuan
natives in their villages and on plantations
at Port Morseby, Samarai and other spots
NOT A MATTER OF TASTE.
“Shopkeepers have been made very suspicious by the quantity of spurious coin in circulation.”
Shopkeeper ( biting coin to test it): “This half-crown is not good.”
THE LAD: “ S'elp me. I never pretended it was good to EAT.”
in Papua, and is still on the job, though
temporarily down south after drugs and sup-
plies. He declares that if the Common-
wealth appoints a man to continue his work
the hook can be put entirely out of business.
The disease is caused by insanitary condi-
tions and the careless and uncivilised method
of depositing the excreta which carries the
germs. The action of the tropical sun does
the rest. When the hook attacks the white
man its effects are far more serious than they
are on the native system. It is essentially
tropical and sub-tropical, and flourishes in
the southern States of America*, British
West Indies, British Guiana, Egypt, Sey-
ehelle Islands, Ceylon, Fiji, Papua, Brazil,
Panama, China and in South America,
where it is very ' bad. In cases where the
hook has attacked white children in the
southern States of U.S.A., the youngsters
are anaamic, dull and very slow in develop-
ing. To Queensland he issues the warning
that the youngsters of the North run a very
great risk of becoming affected because so
many of them paddle about barefooted. The
Rockefeller Institute has combated the com-
plaint in all quarters of the globe, and its
investigations have located the parental rodf
in Egypt and tropical Africa. The Rocke-
feller Foundation is footing the hill for the
Papuan job, but further chasing lies entirely
with the Commonwealth.
From private to major was the record of
W. T. Mundell, of Brisbane, killed in France
a couple of weeks ago. He left Australia
with the first Bananaland infantry, weath-
ered the Landing, and subsequently had a
star attached to his shoulder-strap. After
the evacuation he went to France, where
Fritz robbed him of a couple of fingers.
Then appendicitis temporarily put him on
the casualty-list. But he could not keep out
of it; and he had been back with his old
cobbers only a few days when the end came.
Hydraulic-engineer Hargreaves is respon-
sible for a very interesting compilation deal-
ing with the Queensland artesian water sup-
ply. There are 2980 bores in the State. Of
these 1132 are flowing, 1035 give pumping
supplies, and 813 are in progress, abandoned
or uncertain. Government, bores number
233, those owned by local authorities 45, and
those privately owned 2702. The estimated
yield from the flowing bores is 433,061,560
gallons per day, which would cover nearly
908 sq. miles to a depth of Ift. Up to
the present 126 bores have ceased to flow.
The first to go out of business was Saltern
Creek No. 1, in December, 3895. Bimerah
No. 3 is the deepest; 5040 ft. The hottest
water is nr, Elderslie, out Winton way, 210
deg. Fahr. The flow from this bore was
originally estimated at 900,000 gallons a
day. Officially it is held that the subter-
ranean supply is diminishing—that the
amount now being drawn off is greater than
the amount being added; but the authori-
ties can’t agree as to the right methods (if
there are any) of controlling the supply.
Even, however, if they can’t agree, there
ought to be a tribunal to decide which side
has the weight of evidence, and action should
be taken accordingly. At present, on the
official admission, the artesian country is
just drifting to disaster.
From the Reps.’ Gallery:—
I often wonder what the Fuse would do without
its Groom. He is always in his place imparting in-
formation with a tireless courtesy and maintaining
an urbanity which the most potent insult is unable
to disturb. The long hours which reduce Cook to
vinegary vulgarities and set Hughes seething with
neurasthenic irritation only stiffen the curate-like
aplomb of the Hon. Littleton Groom. He has rarely,
if ever, been inveigled into a “scene,” and has not
an epithet in his vocabulary. A very neutral per-
sonality for the rough and tumble of Parliament, no
doubt, but a very valuable buffer all the same. The
House assumes a synodal solemnity when he is in
charge, and a wrong word seems as outre as a sneeze
at a requiem mass.
Requiem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That delicate half-mourning for our dead,
Wistaria bloom, is slow to come this year,
Though here and there a flower looks shyly
forth
As if to ask “Is my world ready yet
For this frail, scented bunch that woos the
bees?”
The purple stocks that make me dream of
you
Who were so young and died so royally
Under the flag of England, out in France,
Filter an incense on the sunny air,
And seem to me like purple robes of priests
Who in a sunlit chapel chant a prayer
For you who were a man, yet innocent
As some white stock that by the purple
grows.
The wind among the gold ranunculi
Lifts their bright heads to quiver as a flame
Of tall wax candles on an altar set
Until the Hand that is the Night comes down
And with his twilight cap extinguishes
Each dancing flame. ’Twas thus your life
went out.
And, as I move, the garden seems a world
Where every breeze tells how the flowers die,
Or else a chapel where white roses are
Pale novices, who at your requiem mass,
With long white veils above their folded
hands,
Were like sweet petals scattered on a grove.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 15, 1977
My Deab Thargomindah,—
The week has been as quiet as a Quaker’,
bonnet. However, bang went a cirenbuu,
library which Mrs. Ryan and a few n b g
ladies have got together for the soldi* 61 -
settlement at Beerburrum when the C
ernor opened it A special train, motor-car!
tea and buns for the guests were items it’
the dissipation. The visit ought to r ?l !
some false ideas about the settlement f r,
the minds of pessimists who so dearly W
to believe the worst.
The soldier-farmers get an advance of
ioOO, at 3i per cent., repayable within 4(
years; the ordinary settler has to pay 5 r)( ..
cent, interest and wipe out his debt inside
25 years. The Government stipulates that five
acres of the holding shall be under pi ne
apples, and has promised that when there
is a glut in the market the fruit grown by the
ex-soldiers shall have precedence at the about
to-be erected State canning works. Am
man from any of the Allied armies can take
up land in the North on these terms.
In the Stanthorpe district, where stone-
fruit is grown, there is another settlement
for returned soldiers, and 268 acres in the
Yeerongpilly parish have been resumed for
poultry-farms for others.
At the Musical Union concert on Tues-
day night Mollie Wheeler was the soprano
in “The Spectre’s Bride”; and although she
sang sweetly, her voice was neither big
enough nor dramatic enough for the work.
To make things worse the tenor had for-
gotten to bring a stepladder and the bari-
tone was short of expression, owing to the
strike, I suppose. These are trivial short-
comings, my dear, but they have a depress-
ing effect.
W. R. Crampton gives up his position as
Director of Labor this week, to take over
the billet of secretary to the Daily Stan-
dard. Regretful farewells and the usual
“memento of the occasion.”
On Tuesday afternoon Mrs. T. J. Ryan
and Mrs. Ilnxham were entertained at "the
(’oo-ee Cafe by Mrs. Dutton, of Crow’s
Nest. The hostess brought offerings from
the loyal and respectful inhabitants of the
village to the two guests.
The Wattle Day League is to have a
“day” on the 28tli inst., to raise funds for
the purchase of artificial limbs for our maimed
gallants.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
From the Thargomindah Herald:—
A meeting of ladies and gentlemen of the Roman
Catholic Church and Church of England will be held
in the Shire Hall, Thargomindah, at 4 p.m. on
Wednesday next, Bth instant, with a view to arrang
ing a benefit in aid of both churches.
Provided the plate isn’t underweight, The
Bulletin’s Religious Editor won’t object'
to be consecrated bishop of a sensible com-
munity like that.
Passed ont in London, John Hunter
Brown, once well known in Brisbane as a
member of the firm of Thomas Brown and
Sons and as a director of the Telegraph.
Deceased, who kept up the London end of
the big shipping firm’s activities, married a
daughter of the late A. V. Drury, clerk of
the Executive Council. Major Tom Brown,
who left with the first Bnnanalanders and
has been in the thick of things in Gallipoli
and France, is a son. Another son. Capt.
Jack, of the Gordon Highlanders, was killed
in France some months ago.


(hi
hi
KU
fill
m
a
m
THE, POPUEARITY OF
CARS.
Wh en the Series 18 Studebaker Cars were announced, we predicted that they
would be the most popular cars which Studebaker had ever produced.
For the reason that these cars embody all the essential features required for
either ordinary touring, city driving, or work on the station.
These cars are simple to drive—economical to maintain —dependable and
durable.
The Australian public is well acquainted with the famous records made by
these cars during the past two years—in fact, Studebaker holds all worth-
while records.
As an instance of this, the Fremantle to Sydney cross-country record as an
example of Durability has never been approached by any other make of car.
The Speed Contest held at Southport Beach resulted in another Studebaker
Record of 8 5 miles per hour.
Durability and Speed are, however, not the only requirements in high-grade
cars, as Studebakers appeal to comfort also.
The Studebaker Series 18 bodies also are recognised as being the most com-
fortable and elegantly equipped bodies on this market.
Deep upholstery covered with real leather is only one of the body features.
Ever since the Series 18 has been announced, we have been behind in filling
our orders—selling cars to arrive is the usual practice with Studebakers.
A few shipments are now on the water and deliveries can be made about
28th September—if you book your order NOW.
Equipment includes Magneto, Electric Self-starter, and a full complement of
tools, including spare tyre, tube and rim, without additional cost.
Studebaker Cars are sold by 169 dealers throughout Australia.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia L d
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
STUDEBAKER


Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins tc
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter's Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
»nd child.
Cmm
ITTLE
IVER
PIULS,
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
ind true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill —Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE . PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS.
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO ana OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Cominonwealth.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that
will restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a
few days’ time merely by the application
of a simple, old : fashi.oned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from
your chemist two ounces of tammalite con-
centrate and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply this to tire hair a few times
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradu-
ally darkening to the desired shade. The
lotion is pleasant, not- sticky or greasy, and
does not injure the hair in any way. IT
Ball Bearings.
Radial Types.
IMS
13.30 U Series
Light Type
1200 Series
Light Typ*
2200 Series'
Wide Type
if
1300 Series
Medium Type - - - - *
17
sr • • j
2300 Series
Wide Type
400 Series
Heavy Type
fej
1400 Series
Large, Extra Heavy Type
GARDNER, W/ERN
... ■■■: & CO.- -
Melbourne ..... 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane ...... 369 Queen Street.
TOIX up. young man. and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out. and the chances are that you will haYe
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
gg
*
I
1
ItliHhFfi
BEAUTY SECRETS
REVEALED.
Ey “MIMOSA.”
HAIR CULTURE.
A DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
there is really no need to have poor or
impoverished hair if a few commousense
rules are observed. First of all. hair tonics
must be freshly-made in order to obtain the
best results, and thousands of women, and
men, too, are now making up their own
lotions with most satisfactory results, ror
this purpose they obtain from the chemists
one ounce of boranium and mix this with
i pint of bay rum, quite a simple formula,
and according to all accounts remarkably
effective. This simple home-made lotion
quickly removes all dandruff, and creates a
growth of new, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman. One word
in conclusion. Do not experiment with
your hair, long suffering though it may be.
Nature will surely revolt if you continue
to subject the hair and scalp to all kinds
of fanciful treatments. Employ a tonic- by
all means if such is required, but having
found a satisfactory one use no other.
GOOD SHAMPOO IMPORTANT.
THE hair should be allowed to breathe,
and the greasy film around each strand
must be removed with a mild non-
alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be tabooed.
The very best solution for the purpose can
be made* by dissolving a teaspoonful of stal-
lax granules in a cup of hot water. It
stimulates the scalp to healthy action, and
at the same time leaves the hair in that
soft, fluffy condition so much admired. Any
chemist can supply you with an original
packet of stallax. sufficient to make twenty-
five or thirty shampoos.
MAGIC FOR SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
IT is astounding the number of women
who suffer from unsightly growths of
hair on the face, and it will come as a
piece of good news to know that there is a
simple substance, known as powdered phe-
minol, which w-ill remove it immediately
and permanently. Mix a small quantity
into a thin paste with a little water, and
apply to the objectional growths. In two
minutes all trace of the hair will have
entirely vanished, and your skin will be as
soft and smooth as a child's.
T
RENEWING COMPLEXIONS.
HE average womjm of to-day is u ‘ sualh
•satisfied if her complexion is DasS aK,
pretty, little knowing that an Luff
skin is now within her reach, providing s
has the good sense to stop using cheap it
up preparations and adopt what has JZ
become known as the mercolised-wax li-
lt is a pity that every woman in the
rannot be apprised of this simple meS
Ihe tew to whom its virtues are air 1
known have complexions that are the env
of all their friends, and, as is usually t
case, the majority of them refuse to'divuS
the secret However, the formula has n„»
been verified, and is known as mercuCi
wax. Inquiry at several chemists’ shoot
have resulted in ascertaining that this «nh
stance has been known to the select few f •
some years as a complexion beautifier pm
is only until quite recently that it has been
used to any extent for this purpose. It Was
also explained how mercolised wax renew*
the complexion, but as this is rather tech
nical it is not proposed to repeat it here It
will be sufficient to say that through some
peculiar action the wax absorbs the dead
and discolored outer cuticle, revealing the
fresh young complexion which every w omail
has underneath. The process occupies about
ten days, and the change is so gradual and
imperceptible that no discomfort whatever
is caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less and the wax may be used as often as
desired.
BLACKHEADS FLY AWAY.
A PRACTICALLY instantaneous remedy
for blackheads, greasy skins anil
enlarged pores, recently discovered, is
now coining into general use in the boudoir.
It is very simple, harmless and pleasant.
Drop a stymol tablet, obtained at the
chemist’s, in a tumbler full of hot water.
After the effervescence has subsided bathe
the face in the liquid, using a small sponge
or soft cloth. In a few minutes dry the
face and the offensive blackheads will'eome
right off on the towel. Also the large oily
pores immediately close up and efface them-
selves naturally. The greasiness disappears
and the skin is left smooth, soft and cool.
This simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days to
ensure the permanence of the result [1
urn
SCIENCE & EXPERIENCE
must precede progress to attain per-
manent success. The scientific and
experimental work undertaken by the
SUNBEAM
Company has been continuous and is reflected
in the present productions, and also in the
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
which has earned for it the title
Supreme on land and in the air.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT . 54-62, Oxford St. London. Ensland
OR ICS » * • * Wolverhampton, Ensi&od
IM
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 3. 1917.
Ist Prize, value £650. 2nd Prize. *Lj ze s.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 397 other ' a ‘ ,J 1 ship iey,
The First Prize last year was won by Mi's. C.
Blaekheath, X.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE - .
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR *
Results of Drawing: will be advertised in The . rwar j.
on Thursday. November 8. 1917. To any w jU be
ing- stamped, addressed envelope, a list of tne ' or direct
posted. Tickets mav be had from Agents in all tow nim ittee,
from ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary. Eight Hour «-
Trades Hall, Sydney.
From Sydney D.T.: — 1
.Vs the result of the disturbance in Bathurst-street
lust night, eight men were before Mr. ha.'ten, a.-
at the-Central Police Court on Saturday morning..
Who says Justice is slow on her feet iu
X. IS. Wales ?
Not much need to preach Thrift to S.
Aus. The annual report of the State hat-
ings Bank tells that, of the whole 430. WU
people—men. women and children two out
of every three have deposits. There isn t
much talk about the I.W.W. in those parts.
From the consumptives’ sanatorium at
Waterfall (N.S.W.)
I know it is wartime; yet will a few Bulletin
readers who have finished with their copies send
them along for the benefit of the patients? Papers
sent c/o of the secretar\' of the patients recreation
committee will be gratefully appreciated.
Captain Moodie, first skipper of the.
famous clipper Cutty Sark, is still alive.
He and his wife are living in Auchter-
muclity. He is 92; his lady is" a few years
younger. Besides being the Cutty's first
master Moodie helped to design and fit up
the ship, and his life-partner officiated at
the christening in ISG7.
Gov. Stanley, who attended a dinner of
the Beefsteak Club at Scott's Hotel the
other evening, would be a neighbor of Scott,
the founder, if the latter were still alive
and in possession of his original holding at
Malvern. In the long ago the owner of
Scott’s had a 100-acre farm alongside the
paddocks in which the vice-regal_ cow now
grazes.
The X. S. Wales Belgian Relief Fund, has
been closed at £415,075. Exes, were £2Ol
less than Is. per cent., which it is believed
is a world’s record. The Red Triangle Day
Fund has been balanced at £175.000, and it is
believed France’s Day Fund, now at £lOO.OOO.
will exceed the Triangle’s measurements.
The strike hasn't improved the chances of
War Chest Day eclipsing these achieve-
ments.
Tom Mutch. Labor member for Botany in
the X.S.W. Assembly, will really have to
hire a press agent. Examining a.Crown wit-
ness'during the hearing of a long-drawn-out'
case last week, he asked confidently, “You
know I am an anti-Conseriptionist speaker?"
“Xo,” replied the witness coolly. “I never
heard of you before this case.” How much
noise has a politician got to make before
people realise that a new sun has arisen?
Sydney's Lord Meagher had a strike all
to himself when about 15 block boys downed
brushes and trays. They were all paid off
and dismissed and their places filled. After
10 days the strike collapsed, and the strikers
were back humbly asking Meagher for work.
And how did the Working Man’s Friend re-
spond? Some of the lads were told never to
•look to the Sydney Council again for work
and the others have to wait their turn.
That’s what happens when Meagher is mind-
ing his own business and the hot-air plant
isn't working. .
Melbourne still practises its bad old habit
of arranging special free feeds for the inner
circle at entertainments for benevolent pur-
poses. One such affair was recently held at
the Town Hall. Floor-tickets were 55., with
only about 150 people dancing, while there
were 50 spectators in the balcony at 3s.
There were two suppers in two separate
supper-rooms—one quite ample, not to say
excessive, for the casual night-outer ; another
for the set which had fixed up the show.
They had cold chicken and other, scrump-
tious war-time hicconomies, shaded candles,
special decorations, and all the rest of it.
The profits were designed to benefit Billjim.
and under the unfortunate circumstances of
a poor attendance it was all the more glar-
ingly plain that Billjim didn’t get a square
deal.
The. proud war record of Victoria's Educa-
tion Department:—
Enlistments: 559 teachers, one inspector and 17
of the office staff. Rejected: 69.
Casualties: 137 (Dead and missing 71).
Distinctions gained: V.C., Captain Tnbb (teacher's
son) and Flight-Conmiander McNamara (teacher) ;
D. 5.0.. Brig.-Gen. McXicolL Colonel Denehy, Lieut.-
Colonel Morshead, Captains Nicholas and Dwyer
(all teachers) ; C.M.C., Major Cass (teacher).
Colonel (Dr.) Hurley (inspector's son) ; Military
Cross, eight teachers and sons of teachers and in-
spectors) ; Mentioned in Dispatches, seven teachers;
Military Medal, four teachers: D.C.M., two teachers;
Russian Order of St. George, son of one of office
staff; Servian Order .of White Eagle, one teacher;
Croix de Guerre, an inspector's son, Colonel (Dr.)
. Henderson.
“Chatsworth" ; My nomination of an Aus-
* trajian who might have won the baton is
Captain* Rupert Henderson, killed by a
Turkish bullet on May 15. 3915. This
fine'.boy—lie was only 22—left Melbourne in
October. 1914. and weathered the first three
;weeks of Gallipoli. At Krithia all his
seniors were killed or wounded, and for five
days young Henderson brilliantly com-
manded all that was_Jeft of the battalion.
On. May 15 for five splendid hours he virtu-
ally took charge of the brigade, the G.O.C.
being out of action'. Then he went West. A
friend lying in a Lemnos hospital asked a
man how* Rupert died. “Like a —, lion!”
was the reply. His 19-year-old brother.
Lieut. Alan Henderson, fell on the day of
the Landing. The"'only surviving brother.
Chaplain-captain Kenneth, has been in
France for a year or more.
“Bad Australian": Germany has climbed
down over the Monte Protegido affair and
apologised and promised to compensate the
vessel’s owners and salute the Argentine flag
"when opportunity offers.” Although the
Argentine has put up its knife and jammed
the safety-valve down hard on its effervescing
dignidad. it feels that it has been badly over-
reached. And it has. The sudden and un-
expected climb-down on the part of the Ger-
mans is due not to any desire to make
amends for the unwarranted attack on the
Argentine flag, but simply to the wish to
conserve in this Republic their commercial
interests, which are second only to those of
"Great Britain. ~ If Argentina should take a
, place alongside Brazil among the active
enemies of Germany it would mean an abso-
lute knock-out to the Hunnish 'schemes for
commercial supremacy and territorial ex-
pansion in South America, as the. other
South American republics, with the excep-
tion of Chile, don't amount to a row of beans
so far as German ambitions are concerned.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. Wf
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache.
Stopain is both simple and economical.
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill tiie cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid "cures” and- this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the.tooth
until dental aid can he obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from tlie nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried bv thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
inav be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
r-N
Oh! My! Corn>pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
vour toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold bv retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
&
so
c<>
%
<r?
cQ
2?
cJS
w&
<r?
23
<=?r
c/ J
6RAMNY afIAPIBEt?LAIN
tCQPTttIOpT E.D.)
'*7*7-
7
«•
-5^
%x <®uy
-51
Sai
d
LVI •
!\
-J<-
IS
Vi
I had a most awful sore throat one winter and sister was
quite anxious about me. She said that few realise the seriousness of a sore throat nor
know that it indicates a weakness of the bronchial tubes. If neglected the sufferer
becomes most susceptible to influenza or pneumonia and often some chronic complaint
develoos. Rut I knew that a day in bed out of the wind and draught and a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
would soon put me right. It only took a
few doses to remove the irritation, soothe
and heal the inflamed tubes, and sister was
surprised when she saw me up and about
next morning as well as ever.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is certainly
a wonderful medicine. It gives tone to the
weakened tissues of the throat, strengthens
the bronchial tubes, and at the same time
builds up the system.
"Now he jure
you get
Chamberlain ’j.
' Cl CxaleAtf fhomex
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain’s
Tablets are a new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Liver and Bowels ; they have met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Liver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver. Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used they are a most popular medicine and everyone who has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PILLS and you would never wish to take another
dose of pills after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle in
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followed
bv constipation. They are sold by all chemists ami storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. per box.
After examining 257 of the Latest Models European and American Cars the latest
was designed, and ail the new ideas and touches are combined in this master car.
Besides this, in the MITCHELL is embodied 31 extra features which other cars
omit. The present Model shows the final results of 700 improvements.
You will find it the Most Interesting Car—the Host Complete Car.
AGENTS—
N.S.W.:
F. H. Gordon & Co.,
133-137 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Janies A. Munro & Co.,
493-503 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Orchard Ralph & Co.,
105 King William St.,
Adelaide.
<•
; ••? £
,*-
4:^
m
■
-••••• •-•••••>:-• ■•••••••••• • !'/.
>ssSS,V>s>A'M<M
•:->V/Xv>:w>^w^^wv^artiv^A>^-.vv-^wXN»XwwO»>^WwwvN<v^‘^^<»^'OOwJwo c<,o<w
AGENTS—
QUEENSLAND:
Queensland Motor Agency
Ltd.,
Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Bradley & Williams,
853-857 Hay St.,
Perth.
TASMANIA:
L. O. Hildyard,
159 Macquarie SL,
itobart.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
THEY ARE
GOOD FLASKS
for the Trenches or other Hard Service.
There is nothing that can break.
They are Solid. Hard White Metal. Heavily Silver-plated.
They will last a lifetime.
They are made specially to meet War requirements, and we are
selling them at our usual low prices.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney :: 23 825 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures. Cash only.
Very heavily electro-
plated on hard white
metal Flask, x 4 j
inches 40/-
Less 20% dis-
count 8/'-
Economy & Patriotism
IT is not only patriotic to
buy Rameses Underwear —
it is an act of good judgment
and sound economy as well.
Rameses is a dependable British made
garment at a popular price, no foreign
made article can equal it in value.
Every Rameses garment bought not
only helps British trade, it helps to victory as well, as
practicallyall excess profits go to the British Government.
RAMESES
BRITISH MADE UNDERWEAR
Every genuine Raraeses garment bears the Rameses trade mark. Made in
various weights for men and women. Of all leading Drapers and Stores.
iiiii
tra
Choose an EDISON
“AMBEROLA”
Every lover of good music should have an “Amberola" at
home. It brings you the best iu the world of music—to be
enjoyed at will.
There are “Amberolas" in various models, and Model Xo.
50, illustrated, is extremely popular.
It is fitted witli Mr. Edison's famous diamond stylus
reproducer, which does away with the troublesome process of
changing needles, and plays the charming Blue Amberol
Records —new list- of which are published monthly.
The cabinet is very handsome, available in golden oak and
mahogany finish. Stands nearly 16 inches high. Price
£l6/10/-*
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for a demonstration, or
write direct for illustrated catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale onlv), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
safeguard your HEaltH
QtJ.Colfis &rQu ne 's
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
----- —O* .'inuitlKE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma
• nd ‘ n * h *
Checks FEVERISH
NESS and effectuallv
cuts short all attack's
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT
NEURALGIA, TOOTh'
ACHE, RHEUMATISM
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, lIS Si. -i
Made in England. ‘ ’ ’ 3 ’’
s
REPEATING AND
AUTOLOADING
SHOT GUNS
"D EMINGTON UMC
Autoloading Arms are
made under tke famous Browning
patents wLick are recognized as unex-
celled. Our Repeating Skot Guns are
fast gaming favour. Send for descriptive
{catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO,
D. D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
sy>
O
12
Reminpon,
S&'n/nj-*
A 1
'V'
©
4
'V
/
•- -:<s>
67V
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
SEE THAT YOURS GETS IT.
You will be rewarded by the way
in which he (or she) responds to
its strengthening qualities,
Delicious. Palatable. Easily Digested.
Made in a Moment, No Cooking,
Full particulars and sample sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps by
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26, Jamieson St., Sydney.
*
$
m
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cylinder uesigns. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
Caille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
4-CyKnder.
t •
n
Caille S-li.p. I'nit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
liife The •Plu m R ‘ ?ZOr J haV t tTied - b,lt none
uke the Plum. So spoke a seasoned shaver and
JnT?r r T nCe “ Whoed bv thousands of others
Join the big crowd who swear bv
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of ciiarge.
I®l K Doubl' S'" ,i i. e 1 H “ n, " e - 10 «•
“Pln m^L aboVe^ akCS . a handsom " present.
Plum Strop Dressing. 1/2 Tube, post free
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO pears.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.


For Pimply Faces
Try Cuticura
Soap and Ointment
Samples Free by Post
A simple, easy,
speedy treat-
ment. Smear
the pimples
with Cuticura
Ointment, wash off
in five minutes with
Cuticura Soap and hot
V#
f.
water and continue bathing for some
minutes.. Use night and morning.
For pimples, redness, roughness,
itching and irritation, dandruff, itch-
ing scalp and falling hair, red, rough
hands and baby rashes, these fra-
grant emollients are wonderful as
well as ideal for the toilet.
For free sample each address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
sppual/oc
TWO
L/A/PS
# S
s
0
WQITE
FOR
CATALOGUE:
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
* TO
CHRISTIES
Hit STRAND
m ;
lyjtjs
•*
fi
520 GEORGE5 T SYDNEY
K fIONTER S T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Vlanager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
i ill
ELEY Fourlong*
A .4xo bore 2$ inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33S r 0
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
SC
cc
W
U 4
>
u
I
3
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 410
Universal’
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L? LONDON
THERE is something most satisfactory about
having on the right shoes for the occa-
sion in hand. One feels comfortable,
smart, confident. And for any and every
occasion nothing could be more suitable or more
charming than patent leather, which always
looks well and goes so beautifully with every
colour and every fabric. Indeed, this little
shoe here illustrated will add no small share
of smartness and tone to one’s spring suit or
summer gown. And it is only one style of
many equally desirable, equally charming'. For
Bostoek shoes, besides being the last word in
smartness, all have a certain individuality which
sets them apart amongst ready-made shoes,
gives them the personal quality and the dis-
tinctive tone of shoes made specially to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6377
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Sold at all leading stores. Look for
the name “Bostock” on the soles
829
m
TTU
iU
£*Br«
WtE
■B
0
s
'J '■■
A
VM
m
r . -•
/
V-,..
g*
*
y r >w
*sm
V;
<S»f
■ ■
-a
✓
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
fhosfkrine
B A
Proven Remedy
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving baclt the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
Sec what a well-known Medical Man write* :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables. probably the greateat
authority on all matters relating to health writes:
"1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
Parsons’ Phosfer ne as a tonic in cases of Debility,
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D., C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton jdfc Parsons LtdL, of London, would appreciate your courtes
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 40
Melbourne when the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the
| refunded to you. I
if, being served
8 Collins Street,
cost of postage
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going t
let the Ravisher of Belgium win withou;
lifting a handf
I
Stockings and Sock s
for Patriots’ wear
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are guaranteed by the Brand to be entirely
British made, and are produced from pure
Australasian wool. By buying only Jason you
help the Old Country —besides securing the
finest value in the world.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See thei Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty wcite to
Jason Hosiers Co.. Leicester. Eng.
Aa 61
The Inky Way.
Eighty this month, in Westralia, Ebenezer
Ward, who has had a varied career—
Melbourne Age reporter, actor (with G. V.
Brooke), leader of S.A. Hansard staff, and
for over 20 years at the end of the century
a member of S.A. Parliament, where he
was Minister of Education under Boucaut
and later Chairman of Committees. Though
in most respects an extinct volcano, he is
still an active journalist.
* * * *
The silvery tenor of Thorold Waters, one-
time Age roundsman, will yet be heard in
the word of command on the battlefield.
Thorold, who has been singing in London
for some years and incidentally putting his
soul into Bulletin pars, was rejected
for active service when he volunteered in
1915 because two of his toes turned in.
Subsequently called up, he applied again for
the commission he had sought at the outset.
Recommended then by his C. 0., he entered
a Guards’ training school, and had hardly
passed his exams, when along came a commis-
sion in the Suffolks.
Advt. from the Marlborough Press
(M.L.) :
For those Busy-bodies!
A ffttle more to talk about!
I wish to notify the above that with ray permission
Mr. Wilkinson will take a soldier’s wife to the
Pictures this evening.
(Signed) Mrs. IV. Wilkinson.
* * * *
Bean supplies a note about the widely-
mourned “Pip” Schuler :
I should like to say a word or two of what I
know and, I dare say, no one else knows, of “Peter”
Schuler, who has died of wounds after Messines.
All his friends knew him as a brilliantly handsome,
bright, attractive, generous youngster. But I had
the opportunity of knowing him as a war corres-
pondent. Both in the first convoy and at Mena
Camp he tackled his difficult task with a splendid
energy and pertinacity. He had to compete with
his mail letters against other people’s cables —a
tremendous disadvantage. But he worked harder
than almost any other war correspondent that I
ever knew. He wrote only what he saw. His
letters were true, and only those who know what
oceans of false stuff have been poured on to the
world in this war can appreciate what that means.
Philip Schuler came to Gallipoli during the sum-
mer as correspondent of the Age, and his stay there
covered all the heaviest fighting of August. He
followed that fighting quite fearlessly, and more
closely than, I think, any other correspondent in
this war. From early morning of August 7, when
he was out with the 4th Brigade on the left, he
climbed the hills daily, active as a young panther.
His power of taking in the whole situation by a
survey of the movements on the hills would have
made him a brilliant intelligence-officer. The
reports which he brought back from his rambles
were fuller than the official news and truer; and
his history of Anzac will always remain the classic
for that period on that account.
» * * *
Dead at Gawler (S.A.), aged only 49,
R. H. Barnet, manager of the local Bunyip,
founded by his father. In his leisure
moments he was chairman of the Gawler
Jockey Club. Coombe, long-time editor of
the paper, died a few months ago.
* * # *
“The Moth”; That irreverent paragraph
(B. 6/9/T7) anent Field-Marshal W. T.
Reay reminds me that Reay is the only
inkslinger I know of who has written his
own obituary. He did it before he left for
“the Heart of the Empire,” and the docu-
ment reposes in the Melbourne Herald’s
morgue, ready for use should the Kernel fall
on the field of honor while leading a detach-
ment of special John Hops.
CONTEMPORARY PORTRAITS.—RANDOLPH
BEDFORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A smooth round bomb of high-explosive,
A purgative, a vital tonic,
A cleansing dose of castor-oil,
A bit of radium aglow,
A reservoir of words corrosive,
A blob of energy cyclonic,
A brain for ever on the boil,
A humming human dynamo!
At shams a big sledge-hammer hitter,
He for the crowd is much too clever?
He wants too many things destroyed—
Too reckless even for the mob!
A violent friend, a hater bitter,
His destiny’s to be for ever
A lesser Cromwell unemployed,
A Danton looking for a job !
He buzzes, furiously busy,
An insect in a saucer prisoned;
He flops and founders in a rage,
Patrolling it from rim to rim.
His curious antics leave us dizzy.
For him Australia Felix isn’t
A land of freedom, but a cage,
A continent too small for him !
And sometimes when his spirit needs it —
His rebel heart it always eases —
With ink he spatters paper, like
A fireman turning on his hose.
The sub.’s loud curses as he reads it,
The lino.’s groans! For Randolph seizes;
His pen as though it were a pike,
And stabs his humor into prose.
Though be this relaxation curses,
This clerkly task, so tame and solemn,
The wildest wild-cat may be wise
To make the best of Things that Are;
He flings out stories, novels, verses.
First bargaining “So much a column” ;
His yarns he’ll grimly bowdlerise,
Or pack Australia in a par.!
When all this energy mere dust is,
I fancy God will not anoint him,
Nor judge his soul for doing wrong,
Nor send him hell-wards with a curse;
For Hell would hardly do h\m justice.
I’m sure God gladly will appoint him
To fill a billet vacant long—
Court-Jester to the Universe!
N.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


AILLE
Marine Engines
For All Boats
Caille 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically
Electric Lights
Caille 8 H. P. Unit Power Plant
Rewrsirg Gear on Same Baso as Engine
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
MUes an Hoar
A most complete
line of marine
motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This em-
bodies one- to four-
cylinder designs in
standard and
heavy-duty types.
Also the most per-
fect rowboat motor
ever produced.
Catalogs giving de-
tails gladly mailed
on request. When
writing, please
state which type of
engine interests
you and advise us
of the service you
wish it to perform.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
«Sole Australasian Agents:
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
51-53 Pruitt Street. Sydney; 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
Vaseline
TV*d« Mark Registered
Borated
Petroleum Jelly
Reduces irritations of throat and
nose membranes and greatly
hastens recovery from colds.
Put up in handy tin tubes. For
sale at all chemists and general
stores. Refuse substitutes.
<ai
to
S V
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
London
, _ (Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
Montreal
Moscow
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Kami wick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
AVON
A TYRES.
M or e Miles for Your Money,
am
I
w<
m
m
V
m m:
%■
li
anayiwa ,3 tic:
? E
Keep bhe
home Fires
burning.
Gives a lasting
lather and a
smooth shave
<^/////////////{
n
tik
fd
w
Guaranteed
not to dry
on the face
From all Cmem ists & Stores.
Agents:
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St., Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
m
mm
o
Ppsnrm
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing.
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store
Owing 1 to market fluctuations
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gull, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locka rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2jin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 711 b Freight paid,
aes
Send for our illustrated
(B 1) Firearms and Sport-
ing Catalogue. Post Free.
811. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.L. Gun,
t( ? p lever> bar action - 30in. steel barrels, Greener
Mho S k° j cboke, rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
fo r 2 i in - cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders;
nair-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from 7*lb. to 7£lb. Freight paid, 3t>o/lU/“
WE REPAIR. GUNS and RIFLES.
“SWEET CROP”
Cigarettes, really
delightful. 6d.
pkt., post free.
10 pkts. 5/-, post
free.
818. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-inch steel barrels
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal-
nut stock; weight about 71b Freight paid, 7|*
as above, but with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £9/15/.
mt
V
Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
B2G. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about
< Jib.; of 16-gauge, about 6*lb Freight paid.
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge, 30in. barrels..,’.
£.6/6
£6/15/-
"SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
836. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, ease-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left, full choke,’ matted
n , re ounding locks, low hammers, pistol gTip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 74 to 8 lb., IG-gauge 7$ to 7J lb.—
12- or 16-gauge, with 30'ineh barrels Freight paid, 0 ”
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/7/6
SPORTING REPAIRS
A SPECIALTY.
._ tpn “ The , Cert” D.R.R.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in.
waluut stock 1 ; weight" about'^ih**’ ‘ efC Ch ° ke ’ Snap fore ' eud ' p i st ?‘ grip %
° ’ auour iio Freight paid,
steel barrels,
50/-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
S.B.H.L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action,
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel 30in nistol sriD
walnut stock: weight, about 611 b. Gun can be tak4n anart same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun. apart, same as
Bl - Non-Ejector, 25|- ; 82-Auto-Ejector, 27, 6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.;
4/8 Inter-State
7C
7JUSTR7ILUIS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
nrfD TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St also at
Tletvcasile <! Brisbane


M iss Dorothy Brunton
Praises REXONA.
A
A
MISS
DOROTHY
BRUNTON.
(from a photo,
by Monte Lulce.)
MISS DOROTHY
BRUNTON, th e Aus-
tralian favorite, has won
a place for herself in the
hearts of all Musical
Comedy lovers. Although
Miss Brunton has
said farewell to the
Australian stage
we hope it will
only be au revoir
for a short time, as
we will remember
her good-bye mes-
sage and keep her
in our hearts till
she comes home
again. Miss Brun-
ton has some good
news for us. She
has written to ask
if she may join our
Rexona Club.
Dear Sir, —
Please enroll
me as one of
your Rexona
Girls, for I find
Rexona and
Rexona Soap
simply indispen-
sable to my toi-
let. My motto is
Rexona.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) DOROTHY BRUNTON.
Rexona Soap Gives Natural Beauty to Skin 8 Hair
That natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained
by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary Toilet Soaps do not
assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin
and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse—they
cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing,
antiseptic balsams as Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment
of skin affections is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not quickly soothe and
cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples and leave the complexion clear,
fresh and velvety. Price 1/- per tablet.
o
O
0
FAC
A
3
L
K
N
&
MEDICATED SOAP
FOOD WANTED AT FRONT
A SOLDIER’S SUGGESTIONS
1
Suggestions as to the gifts that are most
acceptable at the front are contained in a let-j
. i a. ■ _ if .lUaiivna Ki ia i noac
Melbourne business
'man from ljie soldier ton. The letter ta from
ter Just received by
France, dated March 24;- ~
£ “it la well that people In Australia should
know . that rations are sufficient for
people. but "bare. All comforts should now
take the form of foodstuffs. Never waste
"space on cigarettes. They are a regular,
"issue, and they are always obtainable. Our
.men are not short of pocket money, but they
now buy extra eatables. For e*-l
cannot now uu/ » --
rfmpie, French peasants are fined 100 francs
■elling bread to soldiers.
Sendj Imilks of various
gtJes^akes^sardlmjfJg^^y^^l^g
stisirtg that will keep.
butter if Jt can
pH backed, guinmer ta now approaching. Put
your energiea into food. Rations are deadly,
uninteresting. The rations are so mono-’
th« men fmd difficulty
in eatfng
d
A genuine
extract
from a
soldier s
letter.
Send a tin or
two of this
most
appetizing
Cheese.
It keeps well
when opened
and spreads
like butter.
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
is sold by all Grocers everywhere. Ask for it
W and refuse proffered substitutes.
Send him also a tin
of
“Rex”
Camp Pie.
It is ready to eat
from the tin. Tasty
and nourishing.
qyQvOV vY OYvtOtvVo
\J3NC
*V
5^2
MS
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LIMITED,
Packers of “ Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon.
A Tragedy of Threepence and
a High Wind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f pHE tickling wdnd had made the forest
I giggle.
Each flapper sapling shook her saucy
hair.
Half-bold, half-shy, she seemed to mince and
wriggle,
Missing his kisses with an inch to spare ;
And smiling o’er his shoulder at the sun,
Who laughed a baldhead mirth upon their
fun.
I did not feel the very least like laughter.
The scheme of nature filled my- soul with
pain.
The dryad with a satyr running after
Appeared a phantasy as vague as vain.
1 cursed the wind; and that fool-thing in
play
Immediately blew my hat away.
My hat gone mad and threepence in my
pocket,
The sad remains of twenty pounds or so,
I sprinted zig-zag like a bursted rocket
That has a heavy crooked stick in tow ;
And every time I nearly gained that hat
The wind laughed out and told me I was fat.
I shook my fist at that jolt-headed jesting,
And tried and tried again, to feebly fail.
One moment on the ground the thing seemed
resting,
The next through forest aisles I saw it sail.
And still I chased, with fierce and strong
remark,
My quarry over scrub and rocks and bark.
At last I paused for breath to fill my curses.
The rippling leaves about me mocked my
spleen.
The fat, old trees with sun-gold in their
purses
Made a polite pretence they had not seen.
And then the girl arrived and joined the
chase —
A girl with three pink dimples on her face.
She caught my hat; and ’mid the bushes
blowing
She bore it down in triumph through the
glade.
Her eyes above her wind-flushed cheek were
glowing,
Her parted lips delicious music made —
She said, “Oh, isn’t it a windy day ;
I think it must have blown the track away.”
I looked about the landscape tossed and
shining,
The while I thanked her for her kindly care.
A creeper round a bush was greenly twining,
The stiff, tall trees were standing every-
where ;
But \there the path had gone I did not
kftow—■
It had been somew’here half an hour ago.
In spite of blow and gust we kept on walk-
ing.
Her soft dress billowed round her like the
sea;
And half a dozen times while we were talk-
ing
Large bunches of her hair flew wild and
free—•
Hair like - fine smoke. She caught it as it
fled,
And jabbed it with a hairpin to her head.
The whisking air grew louder in its bluster,
The track seemed quite beyond our skill to
find.
It needed all the strength that I could
muster
To keep face forward to its mirth unkind.
And she with silken sail so broadly spread
Found it impossible to forge ahead.
That was the reason that for kind assist-
ance
1 placed my arm about her slender waist.
Thus linked, we offered a more stout resist-
ance
To the ridiculous and frantic haste
With which the air rushed over scrub and
tree,
Treading with crystal boots on her and me.
The houghs above forgot their happy laugh-
ter,
And shrieked and groaned as if in mortal
pain ;
And still more wind the wind came rushing
after,
And on its heels more wind dashed on again.
The track was absolutely lost and gone,
Yet through the dust and leaves we plodded
on.
Her wearied head was resting on my shoul-
der,
Her hat-brim scratched the corner of my eye,
Her hair blown loose had made my hot soul
bolder —•
Blow high, blow low, I simply had to try.
And while with doubt and ecstasy I burned,
The kiss I used was carefully returned.
That made things pleasant. Birds on ruffled
feather
Went by tail-first with wings turned inside-
out ;
But what cared we how the tempestuous
weather
Might knock old nature’s furniture about!
We sought a rock for shelter, and stayed
there,
Finding the sweet discomfort good to share.
It was at half-past three we went to cover.
Above our heads the breaking branches
roared.
At 4.15 I pleaded as a lover
While that bull storm the quaking forest
gored;
But just as clocks were busy striking five
The wind blew out and we were both alive.
The fact was clear because it started raining
Huge drops that hit our shelter with a
splosh,
As if through holes a cloud were
draining
The bath in which the Titans came to wash.
The skies from end to end were thunder-
black—
“Oh, Tom,” she said, “we’ve got to find that
track.”
I knew we must. I knew the sun was set-
ting.
The winter dark would soon be on the land.
I liked the girl. I did not want a wetting;
Yet fortune seemed a little out of hand.
If I could find the way I sadly knew
Our footsteps would be led to tea for two.
Yes, the kiosk, with kettles ready boiling,
Was shame and sorrow to my tortured
thought,
And pink-topped cakes, against my soul re-
coiling
In tragic whispers at my being caught.
I had but threepence; and her dimples
bright
Proclaimed a sweet and ready appetite.
Love in a lonely bush is always cheaper
Than love amid the busy marts of trade.
In George-street he who sighs for joy must
keep her
At least in chocolates and lemonade;
But where the leaves are washed by spark-
ling dew
One shilling counts in love as much as two.
But I had not one shilling. Hence my sor-
row.
The sky, as I remarked, was cold and black.
No cash or comfort could I hope to borrow;
And she declared that we must find the track.
The rain, grown wetter in the growing dark,
Made with its splash the same insane remark.
We searched and searched; and still the
thing eluded
The utmost efforts of the fair and brave,
Till, drenched and weary, in a place
secluded
We found the dry, cold comfort of a cave.
11l its poor roof could match our high de-
sire ;
But with heroic zeal I made a fire.
The bright flame to the blackened sandstone
leaping
Dried us and did its best to bring us ease.
After a long lament the girl lay sleeping,
Lulled by the fitful sound of sobbing trees.
Then I arose and through the forest black
Walked fifty yards and found the blessed
track.
Oh, for a man to murder and to plunder!
I walked as Cain, my purpose dark and
grim.
The brows I wore were black as midnight
thunder;
The pathway lay before me steep and dim.
And then I sighed ; and with despair grown
rash,
I searched my pockets in the hope of cash.
I found a pound. I struck a match to view
it.
The simple crumpled paper thing was there.
I can’t imagine yet how I could do it;
But I had worn my treasure unaware.
And through the happy darkness I went
back
To tell the girl that I had found the track.
I walked as if on air. The wet drops round
me
In the soft rapture of my gladness shone...
Then luck turned traitor, eager to confound
me....
I had the cash —the girl and cave were gone!
I searched, I called through all the weary
night—•
Someone or something hid my prize for spite.
I searched next day and all the week that
followed
And all the month that followed after that.
It seemed as if the earth completely swal-
lowed
The girl I found the day I lost my hat.
The trees are tall, their branches bend and
wave ;
But where the deuce is that forgotten cave?
Somewhere about this hill a girl lies sleep-
ing,
A nice girl waiting for some cakes and tea,
With kisses sweet and red that she is keep-
ing
Warm in her happy dreams to put on me.
Each flapper sapling shakes her saucy hair;
She knows —the sly, slim minx—my girl is
there.
The tickling wind has made the forest giggle.
Well, let it laugh. I know my time will
come.
The sun looks out. The world gets on a
wriggle;
But when I ask the rocks their mouths are
dumb.
And still I search through all the changing
year
Or sharpen memory on a piece of beer.
N.SAV.
CURSE O' MOSES.
Her Whisky-sodden Wretch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE wasn’t really “sodden” —that was
merely his wife’s way of express-
ing her disapproval of his only vice.
But a clever and impartial woman observer
who had met and summed her up expressed
the opinion that if she had been the Whisky-
sodden, the other female would have had to
Choose between whisky and wife-beating.
There must have been some romance in
the beginning of their married life; but they
had left it all far behind them when they
came to live with us. She was a miserable
and morbidly-suspicious little woman, with
bright yellow hair, whose only two objects in
life seemed to be the systematic oppression
of her cheery, rubicund husband and the
pampering of the miserable and unpleasant
apology for a dog she carried round under
her arm. She was her husband’s timekeeper
and her dog’s valet, and if she had had any
interest in life before she acquired the
pair of them, we were never able to dis-
cover what it had been. The husband hated
(Continued on next page.)


I
I
RUB
((
IT
IN
r»
l
£
~>>o _/-»
rfS?
&
1
w
J
>s4
n
1
I C the natural and ideal preparation that
■ has long been wanted for the human
skin, whether injured or diseased. Zam-Buk
obtains its healing, soothing and antiseptic
value from the extracts of which it is composed
and this value is increased by the manner in
which these extracts are brought together.
Zam-Buk is many times more effective than
ordinary ointments and cheap salves, and, in addi-
tion, contains none of the rancid animal fats and
mineral poisons that distinguish those coarse and
out-of-date preparations.
Smeared on a cut or sore, Zam-Buk at once
sets in motion a process of rebuilding and purifying
the tissue, which is essential to clean and natural
healing. Festering, inflammation, disease germs
and infection are quickly conquered, the raw flesh
is amply protected against the action of the atmo-
sphere, and new cells of tissue are created—like a
builder extending new rows of houses— until the
wound or sore is entirely obliterated by new,
healthy skin.
The uniqueness of Zam-Buk is the key to its
grand success over injuries and skin disease. '
1/6 and 3/6 per pot, of all Chemists and Stores.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
Af
%
'-H
•••••
m
Safety Razor
A safety razor at a popular price
which will fulfil the requirements
of the most fastidious user.
This is the only safety razor selling at less than 225. 6d.
that can be stropped without removing the blade. In sim-
plicity and ingenuity of construction it surpasses even tl~e
most expensive safety razors. With a single touch it springs
open —for stropping or cleaning —and with another touch
it snaps together into accurately adjusted shaving position
as shown in the two illustrations below.
BRITISH MAKE.
Heavily silver-plated razor, complete
in handsome case, with strop in hinged
partition, and 6 finest
lancet steel blades (as
illustrated) -
12/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Managing Agent: RALPH ABERCROMBY,
Denison House,
380-2 George Street, SYDNEY.
the dog. and the dog hated the husband ; but
the wife was the boss as well as the dog’s
body-servant, so the husband had to be slave
to both.
Every night when he went out muttering
curses in his moustache to buy the beast
its fresh liver-sausage and cream puffs, she
would sit with it dozing sulkily in her lap
and stroke its silken ears while she told us
in a sad. monotonous voice something of its
tribe’s life-habits and history. “Lovey”
(which was its impossible name) was a rare
and beautiful specimen of a dog family
which had originated in Switzerland through
one of Nature's ghastly mistakes. Usually
they died of a complication of diseases when
they got as far south as Australia. They
seemed to know when they had got too far
south. Southern Australia was much too far
south for Lovey, but she had kept him alive
and glossy by devoting herself to him and
feeding him on fresh liver-sausage and cream
puffs, with occasional feasts of the best im-
ported asparagus to keep his blood in order.
If his blood got out of order his teeth would
fall out, and he would be unable to chew his
food properly. That would be the end of
him, and; of course, of her, too. She couldn’t
live without Lovey—simply couldn’t live
without him. She was wrapped up in that
dog—simply wrapped up in him. (“Don’t
scratch. Lovey—there's a dear!”) But her
husband didn’t love him —not w T hat she called
love. He wasn’t wrapped up in Lovey like
she was. He had been when she first got
him, but he had unwrapped himself and
soaked in whisky. ("Oh, please , Lovey, don’t
scratch —there's a sweet child!”) It would
bx-eak her heart, she knew, but she alwrnys
hoped and prayed—yes, she went right down
on her knees and prayed —that Lovey w T ould
die before she did, because she felt sure in
her own mind that if she died first That
Whisky-sodden Wretch would not be good to
Lovey—would he, Sweetheart?
Then Sweetheart would curl his lips back
from his sharpened knitting-needle teeth and
sneer horribly at her and at everybody else
in the room, before burying his nose
morosely between his paws. Her lap was
his doormat, and he sprawled there con-
temptuously in fatted content while the idle
hours went by and she blathered about him
like a poor fool.
The evening dog-stance would end abruptly
when the faithful Whisky-sodden arrived
back with the liver-sausage and the cream
puffs, both of which luxuries had to be
served daintily to Lovey in the privacy of
the bedroom, otherwise he would bolt them
like the glutton he was and get indigestion—
a complaint that always imperilled his pre-
cious life.
“Good-night, everybody. Come along,
Lovey !” —and the torchlight procession would
move off, the Whisky-sodden Wretch in
front carrying the candle and Lovey’s re-
freshments, and “Lovey’s Little Mother”
bringing un the rear with the inert and
sulky Lovey tucked under her arm. The
little brute wasn’t allowed to walk or hop
anywhere while she was on her feet. ' Some-
times it drove her frantic by hopping, sniff-
ing and sneering about the house, its
trimmed claws making a creepy, rat-like pat-
tering on the polished linoleum. But that
accident wasn’t allowed to happen very
often. Lovey regarded everything and every-
one with suspicion, as if it rather suspected
the whole wide world was longing to bite or
cuff it—and instinct was perfectly right.
A household with an Irish love of apt
nicknames seized at once on such a prize
as “Whisky-sodden Wretch.” Poor Mr.
Bolster’s company name was at once dis-
carded by all hands, and he became at
once That Whisky-sodden Wretch. As we
got to know them better we abbreviated it
to the Whisky-sodden or. briefer still,
the Wretch. The joke was passed on as
all good jokes should be to appreciative
friends and relations, and Mr. Booster’s
fame spread. Whenever conversation started
to sag at the knees, a visitor could always
freshen it up for a couple of rounds by
asking lightly after “the Whisky-sodden
Wretch.” But there is always a danger in
using an unsanctioned nickname too freely,
and sister Amy nearly gave the joyous show
away one day by absent-mindedly asking
Mrs. Booster if she expected “the Whisky-
sodden Wretch” home by six o’clock? If
Mrs. Booster hadn’t been so wrapped up in
Lovey there might have been an explosion,
followed by a removal; but, fortunately,
Lovey, as a wrap, deadened both sense and
sound, so Amy escaped without doing
damage.
One day Lovey's Little Mother read in a
penny magazine an article that had been
written by a ha’penny London journalist.
It was entitled "Has the Dog a Soul?
Yes!” and the author proved conclusively
to his own satisfaction that pet dogs that
were really loved had souls—great, big ones
like captive balloons. Lovey's Little
Mother said it was the cleverest and truest
thing that had ever been written, and she
almost decided to go and see a clergyman
about it. There was a Unitarian parson in
a dingy house up the street who kept a dog;
but Lovey’s mamma rather distrusted him
because she had seen him treating his dog
like a Perfect Brute, letting it run about on
its own feet, chase birds, and pass the time
of day with other dogs. So she didn’t go,
after all.
Only once did she waver in her loyalty
to Lovey, and that was when she went to
see Surrey Sussex, the great romantic
actor, in a hectic religious which was
all love-snarls, bloodshed and pink fleshings.
After her third visit to the play she con-
fided to her dearest friend that if it wasn’t
Ur what people would say. she would leave
the Whisky-sodden, cast herself and Lovey
on Surrey Sussex's bosom and stay there for
ever. Surrey Sussex, apparently, would
thankfully accept her as the crowning reward
of many years’ footlighting and all would
be well. But she didn’t do that, either.
The worst break she ever actually accom-
plished was when she quietly joined an
impromptu young mothers’ congress in the
front room and sang the praises of Lovey to
an infatuated young matron who thought
Lovey was a real child. When the four-
legged horror trotted in. hopping and sniffing,
and the young mother realised how she had
fooled herself in her excitement, she took
deliberate aim with her baby’s rattle and
flung it in Mrs. Booster’s eye—so Mrs.
Booster said. The accused lady contended
that she had merely made an impatient
movement with her arm. and the rattle,
which had been temporarily mislaid amongst
the infant's wraps, flew out and hit Mrs.
Booster’s eye, blackening it. The congress
then broke up in tears and explanations, and
Mrs. Booster retired hurt in two places (her
eye and her dignity), with Lovey stowed
away as usual under her wing. The little
accident disturbed the household, and the
Wretch, who had friendly instincts, was
heard muttering black treason against Lovey.
Any stranger hearing him would have con-
cluded that Lovey’s days were numbered at
last and that the little brute's fears of assas-
sination were well founded. But the Wretch
was really too kind to carry out horrible
threats against anything; also he was too
well broken to Lovey. The eye gradually
recovered its proper color and the domestic
circus continued as before.
It looked as if it would go on for ever;
but the overturning of the civilised world in
1014 and the gradual shrinkage of his job
gave the Whisky-sodden Wretch his chance
of freedom at last and he took it. He is now
doing a man’s work somewhere in France;
but though he has escaped the petty tyranny
of his wife and Lovey, he is their servant
still; for. as he fights and toils, the greater
part of his hero’s wage is credited to Lovey’s
Little Mother, who immediately goes out and
buys more liver-sausage and cream puffs.
KODAK.
Rigoletto.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE great tragedy of fatherhood was
drawing to its close, and it was just as
Rigoletto, demented with the frustra-
tion of the protective instincts towards his
young, had stabbed his own fair and frail
daughter instead of her betrayer, that I
caught sight of Chandler in one of the boxes.
He was watching the stage with the cynical
boredom which the display of strong emo-
tions always produced in him. For Chan-
dler was the culminating point of a race of
clubmen. His bewigged and powdered fore-
bears had exchanged snuff and the scandal
of the town in the windows of the first club
above the Mall; they had quipped their way
into the Kit-Kat; and old Pepys writes down
one of them as the most blasg man of his
world. And Chandler was the embodiment
of this schooledly passionless line.
The curtain fell, Chandler placed her
ermine wrap about the shoulders of pretty
Mrs. Weston, evidently the hostess of the
party which included his only child Eliza-
beth and Mrs. Weston’s latest lion, Czeren-
sky, the Russian Count —very close had the
glistening black hair with its string of the
noted Chandler emeralds been to the head of
the handsome Count all the evening. We
had all voted the Count a decent chap—a
great athlete, a brilliant talker, properly
reticent over his love-affairs. He was a
great favorite of Chandler’s, and evidently of
Chandler's daughter, for I wks constantly
meeting them about together.
Half an hour later I came upon Chandle
at the Club. He was laughing at a storj
little Fox was telling of a lady of easy
morals. Capping it with a clever pun.
Chandler, in answer to my nod, rose and
joined me; and we set out together.
It was a beautiful night in early Spring,
and I was conscious of an atmosphere sui-
charged with the spirit of romance ant
adventure. I stole a glance at my com
panion’s impassive face. “The shell of a
man,” I shrugged mentally, “emptied of all
emotion.”
Presently we came upon the building
where the Count had his flat; and from his
window the light streamed. “Let’s go up
and see Serge,” suggested Chandler.
There was no immediate answer to our
ring, but we felt, rather than heard, that
somebody within had drawn a startled
breath. We looked at each other with a
slight smile, and were turning away, when
the door was flung open by the Count him-
self.
“Come back, you fellows,” he called bois-
terously. “My man’s away, and I had fallen
asleep. Hope you weren’t ringing long.”
We sat smoking and yarning for half an
hour. Never had the Count been more bril-
liant ; to some quivering, alert sense within
me he seemed almost feverish. As we were
leaving, Chandler drew my attention to some
Tartar hangings before the doorway to the
inner room. Going over to them he shook
out the folds to more clearly show the
design. My heart gave one sudden leap and
stood still, for, caught in the gold threads,
grinning and leering at us like the eyes of
all evil, was the string of emeralds always
associated with the glistening hair of Eliza-
beth Chandler.
I had drawn nearer under pretence of look-
ing more closely at the embroidery, and as
Chandler turned away to examine a wonder-
ful Italian dagger i slipped the emeralds
into my pocket. There was a mist before
my eyes and a sound as of surging waters in
my ears, but through the clamor of my emo-
tions I heard Chandler. “A very intricate
design,” he was finishing in his suave tones,
as he replaced the curiously-wrought dagger
sheath in its cabinet.
We took leave of the Count and walked in
silence to the corner of the street where our
ways parted. “God I” I thought, “he seems
to look upon his discovery of his daughter’s
betrayal as some sort of ironic jest.”
* * * *
In the morning the Count's man found
him with an old Italian dagger stuck close
enough to his heart to have caused death.
I handed the emeralds to Chandler a few
weeks later. He looked curiously from them
to me, uttered a little laugh, and hummed a
bar or two of “Rigoletto.”
Elizabeth? She is to marry my only son
next month : for do I not owe something of
a debt to Chandler since it was with me his
wife first betrayed him !
JOHN EGAN.


r!
' i
■4,:''! :
■ ■A?
s*W
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
A I I * ...» « n..:.! 9
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featheraton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
THE BEST
fELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
m
4
ft
C't
£e®
<splrs
n
8&»a«
N -l^
s>sN
Fighters at the Front
are calling every day
for more and more of
this delicious,refresh-
ing sweetmeats
WRIGLEYS
The Gum with Lasting Flavour
It aids digestion, keeps
teeth clean and breath
sweet. It allays thirst and
hunger and bucks up the
tired one in spite of heavy
work and hard weather.
“Send Over Some 99 to
YOUR Mend! .
we
cs
c
‘Alt the
British
Army Is
Chewing
It 9
Made in
Australia
3d.perpacket
of 5 big bars.
Send 3 penny
stamps for trial
packet to J. C.
Gambles & Coy,
Commerce
House, Mel-
bourne.
The
’Flavour Lasts 9G
COMPANION
BeechamS Pills
COMPLETE THE KIT.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15«6. CURES Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “ Singleton’s "—refuse all substitutes.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. EUab. 1891.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold •water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
■the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
FOB £1 6s. 6d. you can have Thf
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad. £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER Carburetor
is made in probably
The Largest Carburetor Factory in the World.
f The Plant at Indianapolis, U.S.A., employs 1500
' workmen, and has a capacity of 4000 complete
instruments per day.
The Schebler is noted for Economy, Dependability, Power—
and there are hundreds of Satisfied Local Users.
There is a Schebler designed for every type of
engine, whether Land, Marine or Aero.
MOTOR-CAR TYPES (N.S.W. Prices).
“FORD” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit £5/5/-
“20-h.p. HUPP” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit £5/10/-
“BUICK EIXXEE 6” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit £5/5/-
(Ensures easy starting: and quick acceleration.)
For “Saxon,” “Standard,” “Stellite,” “G.YV.K.” and other light cars, £2/12/0 each
(Carburetor only). For Mod. 51 8-cyl. “Cadillac,” £4/15/-; “M 6 Clialmers,” 6-cyl.
£4/15/-; Mod. 254 “Maxwell,” 1914, £4/5/-; “Oakland,” £4/5/-; “Overland,” £4/5/-;
“Scripps-Bootli,” 1915, 4-cyl., £2/12/6 each. For other 20-h.p. Cars, £4, £4/5/-; 30-h.p.,
£4/5/-, £4/10/- each.
MOTOR-CYCLE TYPES (N.S.W. Prices).
For 7-h.p. “Indian” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit £3/2/6 each
For 7-h.p. “Douglas” or “Enfield” Xwins £2/10/- (Carburetor only)
For 7-h.p. “Excelsior,” “Harley Davidson,” “Henderson,” etc., Twins £2/12/6 each
CORRESPONDENCE CORDIALLY INVITED.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD., 304 Pitt St., Sydney,
Sole Agents in Australia for Messrs. Wheeler & Schebler. [1


MAN GRQVTTEIi
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MMGROViTE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
Hardened Ready in Short Lengths for Use
2
“ULTRA CAPITAL"
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Autdmatic Machines.
READY FOR USE. ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Dsniwmora Steel Works. SHEFFIELD. ENGLAND.
in Tool Holders and
Boring Bars, etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
i"x3' £x3* t”x3” jj'x4" ix 4"
5/6 6/6 12/- 18/- 24/-!’"
6/- 71- 12/6 18/9 24/9'*/-
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. m a7 h^ir st -
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARDIE <& CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle. n
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS "REGRINDING VALVE,”
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
J. WILD!
GE & SI
Ltd
Alliance Building, 97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne,
Perth; and Aucl '
PERMASITE
ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
INSULATORS.
POTTERY-WARE
ical Trade.
est Porcelain, for
J '•• i,v it
High-grada Hygienic Jugs, Teapots,
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. K
p
i.
</
-r»ADE ma 0*
Ts
o
o
7*
'V
rVw^eiaTtata^lCjL l
($ShZ>
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing; with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins; lib., 50/-; lib.. 25/-; 20z. ( 7/6.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS.
NO EXPERT KNOWI POKE REQUIRES,
Oast-iron Brazing Co. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Kilda, Vidoria.
SCRUTTON’S for
Everything Engineering.
Modern High-speed Machine Toots
Woodworking Machinery
Steam and Oil Engines
Engineers’ Small Tools & Accessories.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST SUPPLY HOUSE.
utto
161 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
m
«;>• .
m
m
an
sp
®a
Hl»
DELCO-LIGHT-
SO SIMPLE i
OPERATE IT.
i CHILD CAN
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE ACENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA— '
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTL,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
'
’S LATEST
FARM ENGINE
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
Type “Z”
1917
Model.
WORKS ON KEROSENE ...
STARTS ON PETROL
THROTTLE GOVERNED ....
GEAR-DRIVEN MAGNETO . .
MECHANICAL SPARK PLUG
SPEED REGULATOR
Ol'R PRICES
FEATURES—
which means Fuel Economy,
winch means Quick Start—No Waiting,
which means Uniform Speed—No “Cut Out.”
which means Hot Spark—Nothing Better,
which means Fewer Spark Plug Troubles,
which means the Speed You Want,
which mean Best Engine Value ever offered.
ASK FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
DANGAR, GEDYESCO. LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
THE ENGINEERING PUBLIC
IS
PATENTED
beginning to understand the
EVERLASTING VALVE
Section of Valve.
Realising that it is something which will Save Money.
Why turn and turn in opening and closing’ a valve if the service permits of a “quick opening” device?
The everlasting valve is adopted by 260 railway systems, large and small, in America and by every boiler
manufacturer in the States. It is installed in nearly every mine in Broken Hill and in other Australian mines.
Also in factories.
Every valve is tested to 3001 b. Sent on appro., to be returned at our expense if unsatisfactory.
— 1 - IM. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
SOLE LICENSEES FOR AUSTRALASIA.
City Offices Equitable Building, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
