

DEWAR’S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
It. O. WATKINS «SC 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ "and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand P ants always aval
9*
€
V
5
\
cltfi Qctvance
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
BILLS DISCOUNTED
EASY TERMS G LOWEST INTEREST
N. S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&1.C9 LTP
MEAD OrriCE*. 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Xext to “Dally Telegraph" New Building.
188 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
20 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215*217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO-OAV FOR 30-FAGE BOOK.
L. OSCILLATING
WALL
LaMg
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR l MONEY,
yQ OLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
For In- and Out-door
Sleeping;.
1
American Wall Bed 'Co.,
asp George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney
SMS&BACQB
CHUBBS
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Hansens
J unKet
msms^
*>, INDIGESTION
a/u 1 DYSPEPSIA
One of thesse speciaHy prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER C 0279 George Street, Sydney .
C.M.A.
r
f
t
Koval
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
sd
Wall board
“Not the same as others."
AaTTtD has a simple beauty that li l»y
everybody, has strength move than eanal ta all
practical needs, and is exceedingly easy t» sroct.
It U absolutely superior for walla, callings, par-
titions, dadoes, Mazes, and so on.
Write SOW Psr samples waft bauMet, post tots
THe Paraffin© Pain* Company
(0. S- Evans, Aastraiaalan Manager), Chart Qs Bouse, Sydney.
u
r
*a
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
i
§
GOLD LABEL
white Label
EX TP.A
SPECIAL
S . V. O
fs
MASSEY'S
Steam & Power Hammers
THE LEADING BRITISH MAKE.
m Stott.
mm.
115-117 William Street.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the iVUuth
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Dejisacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATEB
The Bulletin
V01.38.—N0. 1933.]
[Thursday, March 1, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Tranamission by Post as a Newspaper.


SIRIS
CIGARS
Actual Size.
THE EQUAL OP SMOKES OFTEN SOLD AT DOUBLE THE PRICE.
Boxes of 50 . . • • • • 11/6 Postage: N.S.W., -/9; Inter-State, 1/2
Boxes of 25 . . . . ... 6/- „ -/6; „ ./p
A Sample Cedar Cabinet of 5 will be forwarded on receipt of 1/6.
A. REBBLE W HITE, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Otd Established House,” 21 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
DEATH TO FLIES.
THE NEW NON-POISONOUS
POWDER.
“MUSTDIE,”
The Great Insect
Destroyer.
Price
9d. per tin.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
Fleas, Flies,
Mosquitoes, Ants,
Cockroaches, Moths.
1 V
gfMWt*
P>\
V V
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box
1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and a trial tin
be sent post free, or forward 9d. in
stamps for a fall-size tin.
The Red Page
Vorhaeren 's Love Poems
To prevent the. escape of any part of u*
from our embrace that is so intense as
to be holy, arid to let love shine clear
through the body itself, we go down
together to the garden of the flesh.
Your breasts are there like offerings, and
your two hands are stretched out to me;
and nothing is of so much worth as the
simple provender of words said and
heard.
The shadow of the white boughs travels over
your neck and face, and your hair
loosens its bloom in garlands on the
swards.
The night is all of blue silver; the night is
a Iqvely silent bed —gentle night, \whose
breezes, one by one, will strip the great
lilies erect in the moonlight.
The gift of the body when the soul is given
is but the accomplishment of two affec-
tions drawn headlong one towards the
other.
You are only happy in your body that is so
lovely in its native freshness because in
all fervor you may offer it to me wholly
as a, total aims.
And I give myself to you knowing nothing
except that 1 am greater by knowing
you, who are even better and perhaps
purer since your gentle body offered its
festival to mine.
Love, oh! let it- be for us the sole discern-
ment and the sole reason of our heart ,
for us whose most frenzied happiness is
to be frenzied in our trust.
The dead kisses off departed years have put
their seal on your face, and, beneath
the melancholy and furrowing wind of
age, many of the roses in your features
have faded.
I see your mouth and your great eyes glow
no more like a morning of festival, nor
your head slowly recline in the black
and massive garden of your hair.
Your dear hands, that remain so gentle,
approach- no more as in former years
with light at their finger-tips to caress
my forehead, as dawn the mosses.
Your young and lovely body that I adorned
with my thoughts has no longer the pure
freshness of dew. and your arms are no
longer like the bright branches.
Alas! everything falls and fades ceaselessly;
everything has changed, even your voice;
your body has collapsed like a pavise,
and let fall the victories of youth.
But nevertheless my steadfast and earnest
heart says to you: what are to me the
years made heavier day by day, since I
know that nothing in the ivorld will dis-
turb our exalted life, and that our soul
is too profound for love still to depend
on beauty?
When you have closed my eyes to the light,
kiss them with a long kiss, for they will
have given you in the last look of their
last fervor thejitmost passionate love.
Beneath the still radiance of the funeral
torch, bend doivn towards the farewell-
in them your sad and beautiful face, so
that the only image they will keep in the
tomb may be imprinted on them and may
endure.
And let me feel; before the coffin is nailed
up. our hands meet once , more, on the
pure, white bed, and your cheek rest
one last time against my forehead on
the pale cushions.
And let me afterivards go away with my
heart, which will preserve so fiery a love
for you that the other dead will feel its
glow even through the compact, dead
earth /
From “The Love Poems of Emile Verhaeren.”
Translation beggars poetry; it dissipates
the perfume of love poetry. Thus F. S.
Flint’s translations of The Love Poems of
Emile Verhaeren (Constable, per Sydney
Book Club), though the translator has
wisely not attempted to render them in
rimed verse, inevitably lose much of the
beauty of these frank outpourings of passion.
There are 86 of these poems; beginning with
“the shining hours,” they pass through “the
hours of afternoon” to “the hours of even-
ing.” Even in translation they appear a
noble record of • a life-long devotion.
War
The Diary of a ; French Private, by Gaston
Riou (Allen and Unwin, per Sydney Book
Club), is one of the great books of
the war. The author, taken prisoner early,
is supremely qualified for this incisive
analysis of the German soul. His propa-
gandist volume, Aux Routes de la France
qui vient, attracted widespread attention,
especially in Germany, a country which
Riou knew well. Riou was already famous
before he added to that fame, as the fruits
of his 11 months’ imprisonment in Bavaria,
by the publication of Journal d'un Simple
Soldat.
In ante-bellum Germany the thing that
most impressed Riou was the salute. “It
seemed to me the distinctive sign of this
army, a fervent salute, involving the head
and the entire spine, passing off in a smile
at once triumphant and humble, martial and
Innocent, seeming to say, ‘How enviable I
am in that I obey! How enviable lam in
that I command!’... .Everywhere I saw
blind adoration of the uniform, overwhelm-
ing joy in wearing it; everywhere the in-
toxication of command, equalled only by the
delight of obedience ;... . everywhere, both
in military and civil life, I saw lords and
servants, I saw the same man at once lord
and servant, lord of those under him, servant
of _ those over him- —but nowhere did I see
citizens... .A powerful nation, but one
estranged from the modern spirit: a
mediaeval islet in the midst of liberal
Europe; a redoubtable nation wherein abso-
lutism, exorcised elsewhere in ’B9, was
patiently preparing its revenge, and whence
some day, perhaps soon, would come the
initiative of a combat to the death between
feudalism and democracy.”
And a candid German friend of those
ante-bellum days told him that the German
aim was to produce an army of automata.
“All we need is to produce somnambulists;
not reflecting, not reacting, but acting
merely, passively, by instinct, responding to
the order as a well-trained thoroughbred re-
sponds to the pressure of your knee. Above
all, the soldier must not think.... Show me
a man who, by persistent drilling, has been
emptied of thought, and I will show you a
good soldier!”
One remarkable characteristic of this ab-
sorbing narrative is the comparative kind-
ness with which the French prisoners were
treated. Perhaps because their prison was
in Bavaria. There were hardships, semi-
starvation, insults at first. “Imprisonment
is above all hunger, chronic hunger.... Ulti-
mately, however, people grow accustomed to
short commons. In the long run, physical
and mental life are reduced to nil. The man
hardly suffers, and he no longer revolts.”
And the rations dwindled; but the prisoners
recognised that the commandant of the
prison was not to blame —“a thorough
gentleman, kind-hearted, courteous and
just.” Most of all, Riou felt the hatred of
the herd-life. They had to do everything in
common. He yearned for a little solitude.
And he heads one chapter: “I have a pal-
liasse.” He had managed to get a place to
sleep in by himself. But gradually things
improve; the prisoners are allowed to get
parcels of food from France; and the hos-
tility of the warders swiftly diminishes. The
prisoners poked borack at their guards, and
the Huns rather liked it. The French, under
their genial commandant’s rule, practically
made a tiny France of their prison. “Al-
though hungry men are seldom just, I have
never heard any of the prisoners utter a
single ill-natured word about the com-
mandant. Everyone salutes him with
manifest goodwill. He is so obviously
straightforward and humane that the most
savage of our prisoners would protest if any-
one should desire to make this good old man
responsible for our short commons.” But the
major of a neighboring prison is of a more
familiar German type, prodigal of petty
vexations, full of Verbotens. With the
illicit traffic with the Germans of the vil-
lage, winked at by the commandant, and
the arrival of provisions from France, the
fort becomes a fort of plenty. “Some of the
casements, with their tables for bridge or
poker, have now the aspect of clubs. We
have learned how to circumvent German dis-
cipline. Our servjoe for the supply of smug-
gled victuals works smoothly.” The com-
mandant, seeing Riou depressed one after-
noon, takes him for a stroll in the country,
and Riou, under his eyes, pockets some
potatoes left in the fields. A party of the
prisoners is allowed to visit another group
in the neighboring prison, under one guard,
and come home laden with purchases with a
guard for whom they have shouted both
wisely and well. When the commandant
leaves there is a farewell address written to
him, and the baron, sincerely affected,
presses the hands of jiis prisoners. Yet
Riou is in prison: “I know now that to live
among men, nothing but men, day by day
and night by night, in intimate contact,
without activity, without solitude, without
the company of women (that other solitude)
is to live in purgatory... .After all, the
heroes of the great epic are but men. Why
should we expect of them, during months
and months, a patience and a self-command
of which many men in good society, men
esteemed well-bred. *ire incapable when a
caller stays too long?”
Yet Riou admits that he owes much to his
imprisonment. He learns to understand the
common people of Germany. “Nothing can
equal the ignorance of these folk in public
matters.... The country possesses an elite
of persons well equipped for administration
and rule, and this endows her national life
with a fine aspect of cohesion.... But to
obey, unfailingly and without discussion; to
abase themselves devoutly before authority;
to be subservient to their leader, whoever he
may be; to carry out orders whencesoever
derived, be they democratic or be they
Cmsarian—this it is to be a good German.”
Riou tried an experiment to prove his
theory. Finding a sentry who had dis-
obeyed orders, he reproached him. “Secretly
I was laughing, but the sentry trembled.
Standing at attention as if confronted by
an officer, he trembled before the majesty of
the command, the Befehl. I had issued an
order, and that is wiiy be stood to atten-
tion. There he was, submissive, stupefied
with willingness; he forgot that I was a
Frenchman subject to his orders, that the
regulations forbade me to speak to him, that,
he should have run me through. No, I had
issued an order; the man who commands,
who gives a Befehl, is sacrosanct for the
German. The reason is that the German has
never emerged from private life.... Even the
boldest among them does not lose his venera-
tion for constituted authority... .This poli-
tical nullity of the crowd has hitherto had
good results. But hitherto the crowd has
consisted of fat kine. Association with the
worthy Michael in these times when every-
one is rationed, when poverty and death
stalk abroad, has led me to think that the
political nullity of the people, precious to
those in authority, is hardly likely to pro-
duce a tenacious and trustworthy patriot-
ism, and that in the long run it will
eventuate in disaster.”
A remarkable change resulted in the rela-
tions between the French prisoners and the
Germans of the village. “They are now
quite tamed This little world is aston-
ished that persons of such eminence, terri-
ble on the battlefield, should be so friendly
with their humble selves.” The German
children and women fraternise with the
French ; the old' men salute them humbly,
speak of them as “monsieur,” gratefully
accept their cigars.
A delightful chapter tells how this tiny
French republic met the menace of the
Russians. They had long been threatened
with an influx of Russian prisoners. Their
guards had taunted them that Russian
prisoners always meant dirt and diseases
and lice and other horrors. When the
Russians came, the French saluted them
with pleasure, washed their clothes .for
them, even changed clothes with them,
combed out the lice from them, and
ultimately taught them the disadvan-
tages of vermin. The consequence was that
the Russians became the grateful and
humble servants of their French bar ins.
These unconquerable French !
Granville _ Barker, the dramatist, has
turned his gifts to better use in the service
of his country. He was asked to describe
the innumerable activities of the British Red
Cross Society, that remarkable institution
that, depending solely upon the gifts of the
public, has done such wonderful work in
this war. Our own Australian Red Gross
needs no advertisement, nor does the British,
but The Red Cross in- France (Hodder and
Stoughton, per Sydney Book Club) will
surprise readers with the wide extent of its
voluntary activities.
As an official told Barker, “We’re a buffer
between people frantic to do something and
authorities frantic to be let alone to get
quietly on with their own necessary work.
We find out what wants doing and we find
out people who can do it. We get money
for things which aren’t getting done from
people who don’t mean to give it.” One of
the most useful services of the Red Cross is
their -careful search for information about
the wounded and missing. Day by day 30
or 40 searchers go through their lists and
their hospitals. For weeks and months an
inquiry about some poor fellow who has
officially disappeared, and whose mother is
anxiously waiting for the least scrap of news
of him, may bear hardly any fruit, but every
report worth making is sent round to each
office, docketed, collated, and little by little
the contradictions are sifted down and good
evidence built up.
“When the war ends it should be a truly
wonderful history that these searchers for
wounded and missing will have written in
the rough. From the time the work started
no engagement is missed, for the tiniest will
have its losses, certain and doubtful too.
And so every battle can be found described,
not from its planning 30 miles away, not
from the result of it as weeks later the
journalists may tell, but from the hundreds
of points of view grasped by and made vivid
to the very men who were fighting it there
on the field. These privates and corporals,
who tell the tale how this man died or that,
put no gloss on the matter.”
Another department of the Red Cross
activities is grave-marking and registration.
This department is known as “Yorick’s
Own”! Wooden crosses, dipped in creosote
and bearing a bit of zinc ribbon with the
dead man’s name and number stamped on it,
are erected upon every British grave that can
be identified. There is a headquarters depart-
ment with card-indexes and large-scale maps.
“After the war people will begin to ask
where their dead men lie. They’ll be coining
out to see. I think we ought to get the
answer ready for them.” Not only that,
but there is a fund for photographing graves.
Mrs. Smith in Whitechapel, Mrs. Brown in
Montreal, can be sent a picture of the son’s
or husband’s grave. These snapshots are
often taken under fire, and on each is marked
the nearest railway station. “After the war
how many pilgrimages there will be !” And
France means to do one peculiar honor to
the British dead. “Whatever scrap of jground
in which an English soldier lies who has
given his life for the common cause will be
made the nation’s own, his body and his
memory to become the charge of France
herself to honor and preserve.”
‘Neath Verdun, by Maurice Genevolx
(Hutchinson’s, per Dymock’s Library;
4s. 6d.), is a remarkably frank confession of
the soul of a young French lieutenant in the
firing-line. That it would have been even
franker is emphasised by the frequent blank
spaces left to show the trail of the censor.
This book tells, in exquisite language, more
of the reality of war than English books and
journals are allowed to reproduce. The
author’s narrative has a special interest
because it deals with the first months of the
war, the open warfare of the battle of the
Marne, before the armies went to earth. He
tells of horrors, of panics, of defeat and vic-
tory ; above all, he tells of the little personal
things of war: the hopelessness that comes
to men utterly exhausted, the simple delights
of unaccustomed food and the rare jov of
sleeping in a real bed. How touching is bis
account, for instance, of the five women of
a village who watched with astonishment
“this phenomenal spectacle—two poor devils
so far scorned by death ; two soldiers of the
great war who bad fought often, had suffered
much, delirious now with happiness, laugh-
ing- with the abandonment ’of children
because they were sleeping for that one night
in a bed!”
France
Laurence Jerrold writes heavily and cum-
berously of France To-day (Murray, per
Dymock’s Library), His thesis is" ’ that
France, under the shock of war, has not
changed ; she is merely the old France that
has persisted since the Revolution. “The
French mind has probably influenced the
world more deeply than any other national
mind, though French material power has
spread little. English influence has been
spread by English facts more than by Eng-
lish ideas; France has, with astonishingly
little deed, astonishingly affected the world
by her thought... .She absorbs foreigners
more completely than any other nation.”
The falling birth-rate in France is thus of
little importance. “So long as the French
keep the power to stamp the. foreigner who
settles in tlreir midst in their own image,
the French may bear fewer children, but
they will adopt and shape those others to
the French fashion, and they will remain
French as before... .That the German fist
never drove the French spirit out of Alsace
is the most galling confession of weakness
for the German fist and the most flatter-
ing tribute to the French spirit... .French
reason holds itself the standard of reason
for the world; the French intellect does
not doubt itself to be the best all-round in-
tellect there is. No such intellectual assur-
ance exists in any other modern nation;
the English spirit is cocksure in many
modern activities, not in philosophy; the
modern German mind is, or was, more than
cocksure, but with an assurance obviously
not resting on intellectual grounds.” And
the stability of the Third Republic proved
itself in 1914. In 12 hours the republic
turned itself into an autocracy, and since
then “there has never been less sign of revo-
lution or of any political upheaval in
France.”
Discussing- new literary movements, Jer-
rold speaks of the possibilities of the “tenta-
tive-new poetry of democracy” as likely to
lead somewhere. “Walt Whitman sang
democracy, and after him Verhaefen sang
cities and crowds and men bent over the
soil. But both sang and looked from the
one man’s point of view. It may be possible
to write a new epic of democracy from the
crowd’s point of view, to be not the singer
watching the crowd but the crowd itself
singing, to make poetry out of ordinary
men’s doings, not from without but from
within them, to be a renewed Greek Chorus.
That is the new attempt young French
literature made at the beginning of-the 20th
century. The purpose can be imagined:
to abolish not only the poet’s personality but
the hero’s personality, to be as impersonal
as the things that look on at human
doings, to make poetry out of that very atti-
tude, impersonal and universal, the contrary
of the lyric reading that makes poetry out
of what the poet feels.... Those who hold
that Democracy is a new force in which
men individually will not count, and in
which there will no longer be any represen-
tative men, will jump at such a poetic
theory.... Will there be a poetry in the
future of crowds, not of men, a poetry so
general that it will sing only of what mil-
lions of men assembled feel, a poetry of the
men (not even man) in the street?”
Finally, the world need not wonder over
a new France. There is not a new France.
It is the same old France. /
A Lieut.-Col. somewhere in France: Billjim hasn’t
much time for reading. If he is in the front line
all his time is taken up with watching brother Hun
opposite and in improving the state of his own
temporary abode. There is everlasting digging to
be done, and the boys are only too glad to be able
to squeeze into their “possies” and have a rest.
When relieved from front line we go back to sup-
ports or reserves; but here again all time is taken
up with improvement of communications and fatigue
work of various sorts. The absence of lights is also
another drawback, very few candles being available.
The literature which i 3 a long way first favorite is
Australian weekly papers; these are passed round
until they are threadbare. I have noticed very few
books being read, but magazines are great favorites.
Billjim is. a great letter-writer, and I think he
employs most of his spare time in this way. There
is a great hankering after anything Australian; and
I think the Bookstall series would please Billjim
more than anything else.


V
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for FARMERS’ WANTS
BUFFALO FORGES.
No man on the land can consider
himself up to date unless his
farm equipment includes a Buffalo
Forge. The makeshift for a forge,
with which nothing near the right heat
can be maintained, must go. so be
wise and replace it with a Buffalo,
which is reasonable in price and can
be depended upon. Buffalo Forges
are constructed to stand any amount
of hard usage. The legs are of
seamless steel tube, fitting into deep
sockets in the hearth, and rigidly
cross-braced. The hearth consists of
a round, substantially-ribbed and
reinforced casting, with tuyere plate.
The fan is of steel and is belted to
a large pulley and operated by the
easy lever motion. The gears are
accurately fitted and work noise-
lessly.
Buffalo No. 150. £2/1/6.
itHS
m
Lw
it • •'
Buffalo No. 5. £3/7/6.
You cannot make a mistake by
installing a Buffalo Forge as part
of your farming equipment.
ANVILS.
40 to 40 lb. weight. 88/- per cwt.
50 to 59 lb. weight, 80/- per cwt.
00 to 09 lb. weight. 77/- per cwt.
VYCES.
T'p to 401 b. 23/- each.
411 b. to 791 b. 6 per lb.
801 b. and over 6d. per lb.
Vermorel Knapsack Spray
£4/12/6.
RELIABLE
The Success Sprayer, price 22/-, is a handy
pump for use in the garden, vineyard, orchard or
poultry house. Tt can also be used for washing
vehicles or windows. The working parts are of
brass and the bucket foot rest is made of malleabh
iron. Nothing could be simpler or more
durable than this pump. It has a large air-
chamber space. And as it is double-acting an abso-
lutely continuous stream is thrown. Each
Success Sprayer is furnished with a Bordeaux
Nozzle, the best combination spraying nozzle
made, which throws a strong stream, fine or double
spray (adjustable). It is easily degorged. or
may be shut off altogether.- In this respect it is
an improvement on other patterns of nozzles. The
Sprayer is sold With three feet of hose, but. extra
hose may be obtained at sd. per foot.
After the persistent rains insect pests
will be very prolific, therefore they must
be combated. If up-to-date appliances
are used this is a comparatively easy
task. The wise farmer or orchardist
already uses sprayers, and as a consequence
the pests are well kept under. The Ver-
morel Sprayer, as illustrated, price 92/0,
is of the knapsack variety, and is capable
of treating up to live acres per day, deliver-
ing from .‘in to 70 gallons of solution per
acre, according to the aperture of the nozzle
used. The reservoir of the Yermorel is of
copper, and the whole appliance is most
dependable.
Success Sprayer, 22/-
RENOWNED CANTON
DISC PLOUCH.
Canton Disc Ploughs have discs 20in. in diameter, and each disc turns a#urrow
from .3 to 12 inches deen. and from 10 to 12 inches wide.
Prices— Single Furrow, weight G3olb £lB
Double Furrow, weight 78011 £23
Treble Furrow, weight 9001 b £2B
■
Sn«;m
The Wiai'd No. 203 Gang Plough here illustrated makes a double furrow 22in.
wide, and from 4 to 8 inches deep. The soft centre steel mouldboards add
to its usefulness. Price £lO/5/-
WIARD GANG
PLOUGH.
Wiard Road Ploughs, constructed of Steel throughout, have reversible steel
points. The one illustrated (No. G 8) weighs 52. db. Price. .. . £lO/15/--
No. 67, weight
No. 66, weight 2501 b. £7/12/6
No. 65, weight 2001 b £6/7/6
EMPEROR SULKY HAY RAKES.
m
The Emperor Sulky Hay Rake is Bft. wide, has 24 teeth, and is of lifiht
draught. Price • £6/10/-
Wiard Road Plough
ANTHONY HORDERN &
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


wiNCHtsrm
HAMMERLESS SHOTGUNS
MODEL 1912
Extra Ifight Weight
Made in 12,16 and 20 Gauges
There’s no need of carrying a
heavy gun. The use of Nickel
Steel makes it possible to get ex-
treme light weight with great
strength. But it costs more, and
so is not generally used. Win-
chester Model 1912 shot-
guns are constructed en-
tirely of nickel steel, which
makes it the lightest and
strongest gun on the
market. It is very hand-
some besides, and a relia-
ble, fine-shooting gun. Be
*. sure to see one before buy-
ing.! Sold by all dealers.
THE REPEATED PAR EXCELLENCE
JL
?
£o^
5^
t *'
m
w.
Mm
■
Your Picture in
His Watch
should be a smiling picture. It’s your smile
that recalls the charm of your personality.
Your smile cannot be attractive unless your
teeth are sound and white.
Keep your teeth in perfect condition by
visiting your dentist twice a year and by
the regular night and morning use of
penFee*
tP
6 ■
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
In both the Tooth Powder and Cream you will find in
these two productions of Dr. Lyon’s Laboratory the cleans-
ing and safeguarding qualities that your teeth demand. Both
dissolve quickly in the mouth—leave no sticky masses be-
tween the teeth—prevent formation of tartar—correct ex-
cessive acidity of the mouth—are your best safeguard from
receding gums and loosening teeth.
If a preference exists for the Dental Cream, do not over-
look the value as a cleanser of the Tooth Powder. Best
results accrue from the use of both. The tooth powder is
the super-cleanser. Its frequent use in combination with
the dental cream is recommended.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Denial Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St. 109 Pitt Street
Wellington, N. Z. Sydney, N. S.W.
PEareciy <
&n4i
ror fpl
& Beautifying fc
nsKTEKittn
isttSST?
■. 1 . :,'
llllpilillill!
IMPORTANT. -LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long .as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. ' Rough powders, such, as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enainel. “ *■
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thusNpreventing decay').
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as of dental luxuries.” I'U tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCIvE, TOMPSTTT & CO.. Melbourne.
FEDERAL. LORRIES
Have Proven Their Worth
The Standard Oil Company has selected FEDERAL Motor Lorries.
Recognition from concerns of this type, with a world-wide reputation, is
proof of FEDERAL superiority.
FEDERALS are built with care and precision to last for years.
They are the leaders in their field. No motor lorry is built better than
the FEDERAL.
The best evidence of satisfaction in the use of FEDERALS is the
fact that 62 per cent, of FEDERAL Sales are repeat orders.
Five capacities—l ton, 1-J ton, 2 ton, ton, and 5 ton. Worm
Drive exclusively.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635 Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[2
M are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do' you
want to .obtain-aa Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent „
J AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never-mind,if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY' NEW’; it is,
ifi fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
vsith galling" steel springs and chafing leather
dnderstraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what wp think of the Appliance.
>, WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
• in. every, instance. The pr-ice is within the
'reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable fot- men,- women and children.
‘DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
WAVER LEY
THE “BOON AND BLESSING” NIB
t
MMigy
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world - wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6<J. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
steel, Gold ft Fountain pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow & London
Four Sydney Nurses Highly
Recommend Clements Tonic.
Because they have noted that in cases of Weakness after fever and)
operations and general ill-health, a rapid improvement, follows its use.
NURSE L. BENNETT, who has her own private hospital, “Mentone,” Ashbnrner
Street, Alanly, N.S.W., writes the following: letter: —.. , r
CLEMENT™ TONIC LTD..
“From what I know of your medicine, there is no-need for-sick people to say
farewell, to good health.
“I have • followed - the nursing-profession for 10 yCars. and I have, observed the
results of various. . medicines . on. my . patients, and 1 agree with others that
Clements Tonic is a remarkably good remedy for people who are affected with bad
nerves, melancholy ' and insomnia. 'lt certainly ' has a curative power, and any
delicate person could not do better than take it. When exhausted it always gives
me renewed strength. “/Signed) NURSE BENNEII.
NUjtSE O’SULLIVAN, Redfern and Parramatta, of 34 years’ constant nursing
service in the above districts, writes that in her opinion Clements Tonic is n
medicine specially suited to constitutions weakened by illness. She writes: —
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., ; ...
“I, carbied on my profession at Young Street, Redfern. for 25 years) and for the
last nine years at Parramatta.
“I have had a large number of sick people under my care, and it has been a
pleasure to recommend Clements Tonic. I knew' it would give good results. My
niece was rather run down in health lately, but she is getting on splendid as the
resultrof taking your medicine. “(Signed) -NURSE O’SULLIVAN.
NURSE MARY ROE, 80 William Street, Paddington, sends her opinion of Clements
Toinic after 15 years’ professional experience.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., * . .I
“For many years Clements Tonic has been a great blessing to me. I take it
when feeling the least bit exhausted after the great demand on my. services, x
have followed my profession for 15 years, and have .a very large professional
clientele. , .
“I have recommended this medicine to my patients and others in cases oi
Neuralgia, Indigestion and Bad Nerves. In my opinion there is nothing to equal
Clements Tonic. I know of instances where it has almost wrought a miracle in
the health of many of my friends. Use this as you wish. „
“(Signed) NURSE MARY ROE.
NURSE E. H. HALL, 502 New South Head Road, Woollalira, N:S.W., writes of
Clements' Tonic:—“I recommend it to my patients in cases of Indigestion, Dyspepsia
and Acute Nervousness.’-’ - "
This .medicine is certainly one of the best Nerve Restorers possible for Invalids, or
those whose system's feel the strain -of-arduous labors, especially in commercial li e.
A few. doses of this medicine works wonders,
NURSE HALL writes':—
“I cannot estimate the value of your medicine. ,
“Where my patients show symptoms of want, of sleep,, .nervousness an
dyspepsia, I often recommend it. My house would not be thoroughly equipped
without it. . - . ~ ~. j
“Personally I derive'much benefit from a-few doses of it- whgn tntlgueo. ~
. “(Signed) NURSE E. H. HALL.
Essentially the medicine for the Invalid, or for those weak front ®I er u?pr ! '
fever, .or .operations, .It gives mew life to the, sysjtem, tones up.,the stomacn, uwi,
or nerves. Try it to-day. . .
CLEMENTS TQNIGDIOES GOOD BECAUSE IT tS^COOD*
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle,


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. l3e Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
Jdney&Bladderl
: These Pills also act on the £i rer. J
\ NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time—guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color—a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others—you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief—every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidney 8 Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
“CASHMORE”
PIGEON GUN
A new model issued by this favorite
maker just before the war. Our con-
tracts placed us right on price, and
whilst the stock lasts you can have
the benefit of “old rates.”
No. 1194 in our catalog is a splen-
did value side clip pigeon gun with
Greener Cross bolt, full choke barrels,
2fin. chambers, Flat file cut rib,
1-pistol hand, Walnut stock. XMI
At English catalog price, X*
Thin and many others are in our 60-page gun
catalog No. 7.
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Deal *• f
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for SO
years, but since takinp your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke."
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. Q,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 13.
d
A Cooling Lotion to prevent
Scorching and Burning of the
Sun for Bathers. Motorists.
Tourists, etc.
ALL chemists
1/6 BOTTLE
OR POST FREE
BonniM&To^co.
11l HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
MOWITOBAHE
A few drops applied to the
Hands and Face keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONNINGTON & CO.. LTD.
|79 HARRIS STRKBT. SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
[l
CELEBRATED
&
/
cw
m
>
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young —hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
relives the worst Corn in a few. days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Cd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
fsd
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
V
W
/f
$
m
\
L r;
{£,
99
7
Mill
&
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible—
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
uschenSalt:
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND,
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Light of Love.
You said that you loved me;
I, all unbelieving,
Laughed at the prettiness
Of your deceiving.
In your professions, dear,
Was naught mysterious;
I was no simple who’d
Think you were serious!
For you w r ere light of love,
Life living gaily,
Making fresh love-vows to
Fresh lovers daily.
Joyful you went your way,
Full of light banter,
Taking the Hell-road through
At a gay canter.
Even the sobs that rose,
And the tears starting
In eyes not prone to tears,
At our last parting;
Even the look of pain
Your face contracting,
Seemed only to my eyes
Excellent acting!
llow you could play a part!
One minute after
Gone was the drama’s touch,
Ripe was your laughter!
Still in my heart I felt
Hot embers glowing:
Pain for the downward path
That you were going.
Oh, Light-of-love, ’twas you,
In the lights’ glimmer.
I, for an instant, saw
Older, grown dimmer.
Shadow of what you were,
Laugltfer all vanished,
Marked with a weariness
Art had not banisned.
But when you saw ’twas I,
As though affrighted,
Ghostlike you fled into
Darkness unlighted.
Metliinks I heard a, sob
Lingering after.
Were they true tears you shed?
Is this the laughter?
Sorrow within my heart
Burns as an ember
For the rough road you went,
When I remember.
You said that you loved me;
I, all unbelieving,
Knew not the tragedy
Of your deceiving.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
From Cremorne Point.
All gladness is the afternoon.
The bay is like a green lagoon,
Where Venus dips her pensive toes,
And every little fish that flows
In beryl boat and skiff below
Bubbles a gem of pearly glow.
Across the bay the city seems
A smoky place of spires and dreams,
Regarding with a calm surmise
The broad pavilion of the skies.
That turns a million turquoise eyes
And stares at her in chaste surprise.
All beauty is the afternoon.
The bay is like an opal moon
Where slim Diana draws her bow
And bids the wild sea-flowers flow
From every arrow that she flings
About the rippling azure rings.
The sunlight fills this grassy place,
And lights with love your dimpled face;
On such an afternoon as this
The world is bounded by a kiss ;
The circle of your lips suffice
As terraces of Paradise.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Breaking Bounds.
We climbed the highest tree in Paradise,
And through the boughs, in languid airs
aswoon,
We gazed upon God's masterful device
Of silver star and moon.
Somewhere a purple river creeping slow
Amid the bloom-embroidered lawns below
Whispered a sleepy tune.
Oh, sleeps of Eden, pillows of delight
And drooping fruits of summer-ripened
gold !
Beyond us is the wonder of the night
Too large for dreams to hold !
Oh, narrowing bounty of our jailer-god
Who chains us with the daisies to his sod —
What things the stars have told !
•
Too well we dreamed. Too far we looked to
see
The stranger apples on the bough of doom.
Reckless for fear and hope and mystery,
We left the place of bloom.
We climbed the flowery wall of Paradise
And gazed upon God’s wonderful device —
Wild freedom.. . .and a tomb !
A fever burned within our throbbing veins:
The airs of wonder blew around us chill.
Sharp were the thorns and. full of bitter
pains,
We won to pride of will.
And then we laughed and then we found our
song;
And the hot tears of life were salt and
strong—
But the stars called us still!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


Keep the Home
Tyres Turning”
hi
Er
was
MS
PS*
yS-
Ml
m m ■■ dgm
T
Reduce Wear
by fitting - PERDRIAU AUSTRALIA-MADE
all around on your car.
The T HREE BROAD RIBS meet the road with an
absence of rubbing" motion, and by reducing friction keep
down the tyre bills.
Few imported tyres are showing as good mileages as
AUSTRALIAN PERDRIAUS. Not one is showing better.
PERDRIAUS are recording such splendid mileages under
hard driving conditions all over Australia that there is
really no unfair demand made in asking Australian motor-
ists to fit them and “ Keep the home tyres turning.”
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH, NEWCASTLE.
*
fs
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia;
J
•i
illUliEiiluiiiiiji!
A Picnic Party Here You See
Camped beneath a shady tree. Comely girls are Sue and Mabel,
together spread a tempting table.
“Rex” Camp Pie
and cakes and fruit, are just the things boys’ tastes to suit. Take
cue from kue and dainty Mabel. Spread a tempting picnic table with
Rex 9 Camp Pie; it’s such a treat, compounded by “Rex” Chefs
from meat. Serve it cold from out the tin, if for sandwiches slice it
thin. A salad will enhance the flavor, but anyhow it wins your
favor.
UNCHEO
<SMEE§E
Try all these “Rex” Canned Delicacies
“Rpx” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Hunch Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages, lib.
tins.
But one more thing remains to be told—
By every grocer both are sold.
Kindly remember, if you please,
the justly famed ,
“Rex”
Luncheon Cheese.
“Rex” Ox Tongues in .Jelly,
and 21b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie in Jelly,
tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in
decorated tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in
enamel jars.
“Rex’' Lard, for cooking
poses, lib. prints.
ljlb.
lib.
soz.
soz.
pur-
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
>AUSfR§i
The ABBOT
Australian Qerm-proof
Water Filter.
Pure water is as necessary to
health as pure air.
Write for New Illustrated Folder
giving full information.
* ■ -v ■
MANUFACTURERS
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
AaupAs ‘ JS aSJoag OSG
‘DNianna aiavxm&a
If you are particular
about what you drink —if you
appreciate a really delightful
spirit call for Thorne’s.
It has won the approval of
connoisseurs all over the world.
THORNES
O.H.M. “INCOMPARABLE”
WHISKY.
Martell’s is uniform in purity
and wholesomeness, and being
rich in higher ethers has special
value in case of sickness.
MARTELL’S
Fine Old Cognac
BRANDY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 3'.-No. 11)33.
THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 1917.
Prick 6d.
THE LITTLE CRIMINAL.
THE GOVERNOR: “Take his vote from him? Why should I do such a thing?”
THE WARDER: “He won’t say ‘Amen’ to all I says, zur!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Hacleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 icords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tun Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Pe-
rsonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Klack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Til Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; 'Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cy.l.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Dome News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, I/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 1917.
THE BAD HABIT OF EARNING A
POUND AND SPENDING A FIVER.
It is not' a bit of use boggling with words
about the financial position of the Australian
States and the Commonwealth. Nor is there
any point in concealing from the community
what it is involved in, or postponing collect-
ive and individual realisatton of the obliga-
tions that war, waste, muddle and an
ignorant, reckless disregard of the plainest
economic dangers have imposed upon the
Australian people. The financial position is
bad from every possible point of view; the
national obligations are stupendous. Not
only has the public debt reached figures of
which the meaning can hardly be grasped;
but it rests upon the shoulders of a. people
who have never yet faced the job of being self-
reliant. Tbe whole of their national and
private finance, their legislation and adminis-
tration, their standards of public policy and
social and industrial life, have been based
upon dependence on borrowed capital. That
this Ims brought a certain degree of super-
ficial ease and comfort to Australia is as
obvious as the sunlight. That it has encour-
aged public and private extravagance is not
disputed by anyone who happens not to be
blind. That it is the root cause of an almost
amazing apathy among the people towards
the larger vital issues of national concern
is shown by the demoralisation into which
political parties and the State and Federal
Parliaments have fallen. The journey down-
hill lias been easy and not unpleasant. But
the • ay Australians have travelled these
many years is not the way they are going
to proceed along the next section of their
trip. The simple process of riding on the
back of Cgiien is played out, for the margin
between what Australia has been spending
and earning of recent years and what must
be earned to bridge the gulf between to-day’s
income and the expenditure of to-morrow is
too wide. Production mattered nothing
when its equivalent could be acquired by a
scrap of paper bearing a promise to produce
its face value later on. But when it can’t
be so easily acquired—-and that time has
now arrived—our whole course of conduct
must be changed.
• * * *
The waste of opportunity, time, material
and money in Australia has been and is still
colossal. Public expenditure has proceeded
on a scale having no relation to necessity or
prudence. Goods have been imported at a
rate which suggested that the country was
inhabited by millionaires. And while the
politicians have fanned the fires of extrava-
gance, the public has nobly responded by
yelling at them to keep busy, and has ordered
fresh supplies of millinery and decorative
socks and exotic nourishment concealed m
tins. The idea that instead of providing
foreigners with cash the people might be
better off if the deal was the other way
about, and if instead of purchasing im-
ported pickles they made their own and had
the money to pay the war bill with, or con-
struct railways or buildings, has probably
never entered the head of 90 per cent, of the
citizens. And if any notion _of the
unwisdom of constructing public works
at ruinous cost, permitting a flood _of
imports far in excess of the public’s
capacity to pay for, or maintaining the
most expensive system of government on
earth penetrated the political mind, it was
quickly driven out again, because these
things have meant votes, and for votes the
politician will barter his immortal soul, it
he has one. Hughes, in speaking to a depu-
tation at Melbourne the other day, made
some remarks about “the fundamental re-
lationship between public and private
economy” and the urgent need for both. This
paper has no recollection of Hughes ever
having been very expansive on this subject
before. But what Hughes had to say was
right. This need is urgent, and the time
more than ripe for Australian Governments
to realise that their policies of public waste
and encouragement of private improvidence
has been as serious a menace as the bayonets
of an invader. But how Hughes can recon-
cile his alleged understanding of what
economy means in its national aspect with
the frightful waste perpetrated by his Gov-
ernment at Canberra, at Darwin, on the
transcontinental railway, and in the Defence
Department, or with the monstrous follies of-
the States, or with the cataract of imported
goods from which his Treasury is reaping
£16,000,000 a year, The Bulletin is not.
going to try to guess. But whatever his
attitude of mind may be to-day, mere talk on
the subject is as futile as it always was.
The business of a Government is to act; and
if Hughes, instead of rescuing the public
cashbox from the control of wasters and
messers, securing value to the people for
every shilling of public expenditure and
strangling the public and private mania for
imported boxes, persists in being content to
merely protrude his face from the tart-shop
and make a few platitudinous remarks, Aus-
tralian history is going very soon to get
tangled up in disaster. There may have been
a certain measure of option about military
service. But there is none about production
and economy. These, whether Parliaments
and the public like it or not, are the com-
pulsory alternatives to penury and national
deterioration.
* * * *
Between a miserly penuriousness and a
reasonably sane conception of responsibility
the distinction is clear. Australians could
never be skinflints. This is one of the things
they ought to sing hymns of thanks for.
But waste by Governments is no more
decent than the same thing done by someone
else. And waste by a citizen of the Com-
monwealth is no less objectionable than
waste by the inhabitant of another country.
The rock-bottom meaning of the offence is
the same everywhere—social loss. And
where there is social loss there is social
robbery. A people who are unprotected
against the profligacy of politicians have not
started to know the meaning of social organi-
sation ; and a State that is not protected •
against the extravagance of individuals is
losing the greatest element of national
strength. National economy does not mean
parsimony or illiberality. It has no connec-
tion with the doctrine of preaching “thrift”
to the poor, nor is it related to the greedy
instinct which sw’eats the workman that
profit may be drawn from his misery.
Miracles of economy are performed every
day by thousands of people in order that
they may live; and they do this mainly
because on them is pressing most heavily the
economic burdens created by the wasteful-
ness of others and by Governments. To
tell these people that they must economise
more would be a mockery. But to tell Gov-
ernments that if they go on wasting the
national assets they will "bring ruin to the
country—that every departure from economy
in the simple meaning of the word is a
crime against the nation—is only to remind
them of a fact which has • governed the
economic history of every race. Around
this question of economy floods of ink have
been poured and men have talked themselves
into the grave. No subject affords greater
opportunities for casuistry, for on none
other can the public mind be so easily
deluded. But the broad lesson of human
experience is written in letters 10ft. high.
In Australia the profligacies of Parlia-
ments, the enormous gains derived by
special interests from these follies, the
rapidly-growing mountain of debt and the
drain of interest, the falling away of pro-
duction in relation to the charges on the
national strong-box, and the appalling differ-
ence between what the people consume and
what they earn are too glaring to permit of
argument as to whether there is . room for
economy. And when it is all boiled down
economy* is another word for work, and
waste a synonym for shirk.
THE RECALL.
The world’s Constitutions were in the first
place mostly, framed to protect kings and
emperors, to give the potentate room to
breathe and a chance to make up his mind.
Always the people, when they wakened up
to some democratic sense of pow’er, demanded
the right to make their own laws and con-
duct their own business ; yet always the lack
of constructive imagination on the part of
their leaders caused them to adopt old Con-
stitutions with minor modifications. In the
case of British countries such as Australia it
was natural that the various States as they
passed from the colonial stage to become
self-governing communities should feel im-
pelled to imitate the Constitution of Eng-
land. The French and American republics
had evolved nothin? that was new, and the
little Swiss Federation had not yet made its
big forward experiment in the machinery of
government. So N. S. Wales, Victoria and
"the rest fell as nearly as possible into the
ancient track, and nobody blamed anybody
else for failing to think out new and better
ways. When, however, the Australian Com-
monwealth came into being something more
advanced might have been expected. The
weaknesses of the existing Constitutions Were
then apparent; but the framers of the Feder-
ation contented themselves with a lame mix-
ture of the British and United States Con-
stitutions instead of soberly thinking out a
new plan suited to the special needs of a
new continent. As a result, the essential
features of the old charters, which re-
present popular rights slowly dragged .from
despotic rulers, are still with us, and the
machinery of government which was once
designed to shelter a king now affords Cover
and protection to any man who teaches
Federal Ministerial office and desires to side-
step the popular Will. Within the meaning
of the term the recent actions of W. M.
Hughes ahd bis associates have been con-
stitutional. There has been no open act of
any magnitude which could be described as a
violation of the arrangements which Aus-
tralians made with themselves 17 years ago
for the joint conduct of their affairs; and
yet it is equally evident that the will of the
people has not been in the least considered,
and that the trend of our politics has not
been at all in accord with popular Aus-
tralian thought. Protected by the Constitu-
tion, which practically takes all power out
of the hands of the Democracy, except on
one day in every three years, politicians have
shamefully and sordidly shuffled the cards of
office and salary to their own liking, and
made impossible by their actions those things
which might have served and saved us in the
serious war-crisis of which we are making
heavy weather. Under the Constitution as
it stands, the people are compelled to remain
as helpless onlookers through all the muddle
and blundering of those in high places, and
see precedents established which may make
way for still worse things, dragging our
whole political system down to a cesspit of
perpetual shame.
#•***'
Yet the situation is not so bad that an
effective remedy cannot be applied. In the
civic life of the U.S.A. the people discovered
that their democracy was a mere sham and
that their elected representatives did exactly •
as they pleased and sought office merely for
the advantages it gave them. To prevent
this the Recall was invented. Under this
system, on a petition signed by a certain
number of electors, a poll must be taken on
the question whether such and such ati
elected representative shall be recalled ; and
on the proposal being carried, the person
dealt with must immediately drop whatever
office he may hold. By this means no one
can hold office for even a single week with-
out considering the popular will. The
moment his incapacity or dishonesty be-
comes a matter which seriously affects the
public, the machine of the Recall is applied
and his career of mischief is at an end. To
apply this principle to Australian politics and
make it part and parcel of the Constitution
appears to be a necessity if our democracy
is not to become even a greater sham than it
is at present. Had such a system been in
force during the period of the war there can
be very little doubt that it would have been
applied to remove some of those who still
cling to office; or, at any rate, the existence
of the system would have vastly modified
the attitude of those men towards the public
they are supposed' to represent. Thus,
Pearce, with his censorship, would never
have been allowed to go the length he did.
The moment the public felt that vital facts,
both foreign and domestic, were being need-
lessly withheld, the Recall would have been
applied and the Minister of Defence would
have gone out like a candle in the wind.
W. M. Hughes, ranting before his duchesses
in England, would have been all the time
aware that the Recall might catch him
in the middle of a flight of fervid rhetoric
and leave him utterly discredited before his
British audience; and such a knowledge
would have gone far to keep him in the
straight track, compelling him to speak
only what Australia had given him a man-
date to say. With such a w’holesome means
of democratic censure always at hand shabby
combinations of parties such as that just
perpetrated would be impossible; and a
party which insisted on having a leader like
Cook, to the exclusion of better men, would
soon find that leader recalled and be com-
pelled to make a second and stronger choice.
The underground engineering of politics
would cease automatically once the reform
was introduced, because the popular will
could always and almost instantaneously
assert itself and break both tricks and
tricksters. Under the system every straight-
going and honest man in politics would
feel safer than he does to-day in serving his
country ; while the scheming person working
for his own hand would soon discover that
office had no sweets for him.
The ready argument which is advanced
against the introduction of the Recall, just
as it is advanced against the extended use
of the Referendum, is that the taking of so
many public votes and the constant political
turmoil would be destructive of ordinary
business and social life. It might as well
be argued that the frequency with which
buyers came to a retail shop destroyed the
shopkeeper’s capacity for arranging his
wares. The politics of a country are that
country’s chief business and the business
upon which all else hangs. But the turmoil
of our present elections is a legacy from
the past —an echo of the old days of the
hustings. A real democracy, alive to its
duty and keen to get the best service and
the "finest legislation, can learn to take its
polls and elections quietly and soberly. A
system of voting machinery could readily be
devised by which the polling places would
become permanencies and the rolls be auto-
matically kept up to date. Recording a
vote need be no more trouble than posting a
letter; and elections or Referenda might be
taken twice in everv week with no more dis-
location of ordinary affairs than is caused
by tie receipt of a mail from Europe. If
the democracy of Australia is ever going to
rule in this continent such a system must
be faced, and to cioss out democracy and
put slipshod despotism in its place merelv
because there are some difficulties or because
our fathers were not accustomed to act in
such and such a way would be poor busi-
ness. Our worst politicians would natu-
rally fiercely oppose the Recall and suggest
that there were all sorts of obstacles in the
Way which the united genius of the nation
could not overcome; but their intention in
raising objections would be clearly seen.
Let the matter be once brought before'
the people, and the proposal itsJf is the
best certificate of integrity of the Govern-
ment or party bringing it forward. Further,
its immediate effect on politicians would
be a plain dividing of the sheep from the
goats. No honest man would onpose it;
no dishonest man dare stand for it. Nor is
the fact that we are now waging war an
excuse for delaying the reform. It is
because we are waging war that we want
straight-going and honesty of purpose as
never before. As an aid to smiting the
Kaiser where it would hurt him the Recall
would be worth a good many shinloads of
“win-the-war” buttons and count more than
all the talk of recruiting stay-at-homes.
PORTFOLIO HEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Years ago, when handsome George Upward
was still alive and Clerk of the
Senate, Alfred Deakin, a constituent and
the constituent’s daughter were standing in
the Queen’s Hall of Commonwealth Parlia-
ment House. Handsome George passed
them —silver hair; good and kindly face,
always smiling; an eye with a welcome in
it for almost everybody, lie was in his
Clerk’s gown and bands, looking very like
a vicar, the dress supplementing his appear-
ance as of one pronouncing a continuous
benediction.
“Oh! who is that?” says the constituent's
daughter.
“That is the chaplain,” replies the know-
all constituent.
Deakin smiled and held the joke, ~
“Oh, Mr. Deakin,” says the constituent's
daughter—“is that the man who prays for
the Parliament?”
“Oh, no,” says Deakin —“he looks at the
Parliament and prays for the Country.”
It would take many chaplains to pray the
present Commonwealth Parliament back to
coherence and definite aim. Not that at
least two-thirds of the House of Represents
tives has not a conscious desire and a single-
heartedness of purpose,-but it is for the
spoil. Rarely has there been such a scramble
for office; lnen who never used the House
in time of recess have been constant for
two months and more, because Ministers
lunch in the Plouse, and they (who wish to
be so when some present members have de-
parted their political life) lunch there
also, breaking through the habits of a life-
time. They have hung not on the skirts of a
happy chance, but to the skirts of a Minister
—any Minister, because, although certain
men were marked for the axe, none of them
yet,-knew whom Hughes would sacrifice in
the end, and in their uncertainty they took
no chances. So, in this big Queen’s Hall,
in tbe lobbies, in the members’ and refresh-
ment rooms, there has been a new disease,
which will not be fatal, but will probably
not leave the sufferer as it found him. The
symptoms are tense and anxious vision, tem-
porary aphasia, often a flushed face, heavy
breathing, increased heart action, and a
feeling of impending danger alternating
with revulsions of hope. This is not cardiac
asthma, although many of the symptoms of
the tw’O are alike; it is the disease of. Par-
liamentary shuffles and evolutions which I
call portfolio heart.
In the Senate they have been marking
time, all the heads irritable —President
Givens threatening to beat Senator
Gardiner on the wrist with a bootlace, or
words to that effect; Senator Gardiner
insisting on the right of Australia to know
what Government it is voing to have, and
what its servants are doing; Senator Pearce.
humble and apologetic, and asking for time:
Senator Bakhai\ tremendously .interested
over a genuine grievance of soldiers’ lost
letters, but telling his story in a foreign
language known only* in books. “My in-
formant,” says Senator Bakiiap, “is a man
whose high reputation has never been be-
smirched. He is an honorable member of
tbe Honorary Magistracy and holds his
Majesty’s Commission of the Peace.” By
which, Senator Bakiiap tells the over-
worked Hansard that the bloke who writes
to him is a J.P.
The House of Reps, has the desperate
cases of portfolio heart. In that place there
is Hughes—yellower, or rather more red-
dish yellow’; of face almost copper-colored
in the light, as if his acrid bile w’ere striking
in. Jens August Jensen, Minister of the
Navy, sits beside him, the face of a A iking
modified by his Australian birth and rearing,
his hair backward-streaming, as if he were
beating up against the wind. You wonder,
seeing that now it is a matter only o£
administration, which means men and not
opinions, vffiom you w’ould select as a Gov-
ernment on face value. Corser, who follows
Andy Fisher at Wide Bay? His tremen-
dous whiskers prevent the striking of a face
value. Not O’Malley, a sleek wowser in
appearance. Not Webster, w’ith the over-
weight thatch of hair and the short weight
of brains. Archibald, the futility w’ho has
been at the Customs, is silent: he is ineuW
ably for the axe. Bajiford. of Home Affairs
and Territories, everybody likes ; they cheer
him when, in reply to a question, he pro-
mises to make harmony in the Admin-
istration —if he is permitted to con-
tinue Minister. Watt, beetling browed, and
with a face comedian-blue by much shaving
of a strong black beard, sits in his far-off
corner as saturnine as he isn’t: for the air
of tremendous responsibility, the cares ot
the nation, and the sorrow’s of Merther
are but the cultivated pose of a very kmdl>
man. And there is Greene, of. the Northern
Rivers, red-haired and bird-like. Strange
the aviary suggestion of the Representatn es
—the starved-hawk glance of Hughes; tne


owl likeness of many ; the cockatoo likeness
of some; the perkiness of William Kelly,
reminiscent of the impudence of a minah.
Irvine sits there, too, florid-faced, clean-
shaven, lean-jawed, armored with a refriger-
ated vanity, as if he had himself surrounded
with ammonia pipes. And Joseph Cook
is at the table, making the Parliament of the
Nation look like a vestry. Behind him is
P. M. Glynn, a little man with a tremen-
dous reputation, got God knows how ; for he
knows nothing of real men, and therefore,
nothing of men’s government. Only, like
Irvine, he knows men he has met in
books. John Forrest sits next Glynn, as
if for contrast, with the big, honest face of
the hearty English yeoman whom England
knew before Freetrade abolished him. And
Austin Chapman, who seems to find a
fri md in all men ; and at the other end of
the bench, Bruce Smith, kindly, well-nour-
ished, wrapped about in his own dignity. _
All the heads have been feeling the strain
of waiting. Hughes lost his usual glib-
ness ; he answered a question as to repatria-
tion of Australian soldiers very unsatisfac-
torily. almost curtly. He halted for words
often; once he beat with both, fists at his
forehead to remember the word “authority.”
Yet, though the suspense has been trying,
there was nothing more “national” in the
cause of it than there is in the struggle of
two countrymen for the job of pound-keeper.
Hughes was the Bill Bearup of Our
Selection in politics; and he couldn't, for a
time, get near to Dad Cook. He and Cook
have been touching fingers and breaking
away again, and calling their portfolio heart
the Pulse of the Nation. Hughes would
throw much away if necessary for his own
existence; but to do him justice, he didn’t
want to send to the axe all the heads
demanded by the Liberals. He offered one-
half of the portfolios. Cook wanted two-
thirds. Then they haggled like hucksters
over the difference between 50 per cent, and
66J per cent. The Liberals appointed,
as managers to accompany Cook to the
interminable Conference with Hughes. Jen-
sen and Pearce, such widely divergent per-
sonalities as Forrest and Glynn; Glynn
by one vote over Senator Millen, whom
popular opinion must see as the natural off-
sider to a really Australian leader like John
Forrest. Neither Irvine nor Watt was
in the running for election as managers, and
therefore, on the figures, neither Irvine nor
Watt could be in the new Government. Yet
Watt had to be, and Irvine goes to watch
Hughes in Loudon. And the only surprise
of inclusion was Webster, for whom better
men and real Australians — Bamford and
Poynton —have been thrown overboard.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Appeal to Disfranchise the
Australian Elector.
Hughes’s argument or allegation or what-
ever it is that the summoning of the
Imperial Conference' makes it “imperatively
necessary” to extend the life of the Common-
wealth Parliament has no visible means of
support. If the necessity is imperative the
reasons can easily be found. What are
they? Hughes does not say. Nor does
anybody else. The plain truth is that the
scheme which has been submitted to the
Australian Parliament, praying the British
Parliament to extend the life of our National
Parliament, had its genesis in the dread of
Hughes and his former friends to go to
the country, and that dread survives among
the _ little man and his present followers.
Their assertion that the postponement of
elections in Britain justifies their postpone-
ment in Australia is preposterous. There is
no analogy between the conditions in the two
countries, nor any resemblance between the
political and constitutional positions. The
Constitution granted to the Australian
people absolute authority to govern them-
selves and provided machinery for the
amendment of the Constitution without
interference from external authority. To
tamoer with this is to meddle with the basis
of Australia nationhood. And why? Merely
because a political party is in a hole and
wants to dodge the Constitution. This is a
mighty poor reason for flouting the
democracy. Constitutionally there are
the strongest reasons why the resolu-
tion should be rejected, or, if passed, why
the British Parliament should refuse to
recognise it. Politically the case for pro-
longation is without substance, for if ever
there was a Parliament in Australia incom-
petent to discharge its functions it is this
one. From the day of its election until
now it has been a lazy, shirking, reckless
institution, without even the courage that
sometimes has its springs in cowardice. It
is demoralised through and through. For it
to ask the British Parliament for assistance
in defeating the people who elected it would
be to proclaim its degradation.
An Election on Something that Has
Nothing to Do tvith What It Is About.
The N. S. Wales Labor Party, having sup-
ported Holman in his wild-cat methods,
finds itself plunged into a general election
campaign with nothing much left in its
ammunition waggon except a loud yell. The
Holman policy of the last few years was
without redeeming feature. It was the
policy of the dodge and the bunch of carrots
and the surreptitious negotiation and the
wild-eyed, demented individual with a parch-
ing thirst rushing off to pawn the family
mangle. And it was carried on to the
accompaniment of terrific applause in the
caucus. Everything that might be said
against the Artful Dodger’s performances is
therefore a condemnation of the Labor Party
too ; and unless Labor can oppose Holman
on some more solid ground than that he has
fled with the bacon, the fight between them
can be nothing more than a wrangle between
the Ins and the Outs. Up to the present
there is no indication of anythin? else hap-
pening. John Storey, who succeeds to the
leadership of Labor, has nothing to offer
except a more or less platitudinous discourse
about reduced tram fares and a firm inten-
tion to borrow; and he is so hard pressed
to escape condemning Holman’s adminis-
trative record, and thus tossing mud at him-
self, that he is struggling to make the elec-
tion turn on the question of compulsory
military service. This is a confession of
abject political bankruptcy. Labor stands
for the referendum. Is it to be part of
the doctrine according to Storey that the
general application of this device to the
politics of Australia is to be followed by
making votes of “Yes” or “No” on one
question determine the votes on another'.' 1
If it is he ought to say so. because many
people are under the impression that the
referendum can best be defended by the
argument that it gives the electors a free-
dom they do not otherwise possess and
allows them to settle public questions on
the merits of the points at issue. Any-
way, conscription is not and cannot be an
issue in a State election; yet the P.L.L. is
appealing to the State, not to pass judg-
ment upon rival policies in the domain of
State politics, but, for the purpose of saying
who shall be In and who Out, to repeat a
vote on a subject with which State affairs
had nothing to do. This is a queer game for
Labor or any other democratic party to
be playing—though perhaps not more queer
than it has played for the last six years
while Holman chopped the platform into
kindling wood to boil the party billy.
«
Roses.
[For The Bulletin.]
The ladies walk the garden pair and pair,
Loiter, and nod to this and that great
rose,
And softly say how beauteously it grows,
And move away, content, and unaware
What deeds of death awoke those blossoms
there: ..
What lives are squandered where the
gardener goes;
What insect-towns he sacks and over-
throws,
Caring for nought if that his flowers be
fair.
.So War goes gardening ; and men are torn,
And towns are sacked, and nations over-
thrown ;
While pair and pair, in parks of paradise,
The goddesses go sauntering through the
morn,
And praise the roses that old War has
grown :
Roses of courage and self-sacrifice.
MAORILAND. BARTLETT ADAMSON.
Paying the Penalty.
It is not much use Labor yelling about the
alleged apostasy of Hughes and Hol-
man. Labor drove them out of the temple,
and the fact that they rushed off to worship
at a fresh shrine followed as naturally as
the disappearance of a rabbit down another
hole after being smoked from its previous
lodgings. Hughes and Holman being what
they are could no more be expected to
wander about in the wilderness like a pair
of tattered mendicants living on locusts and
wild honey than a vagrant billygoat chased
from a vegetable garden could be relied upon
to decline the invitation of an open gate to
walk in and sample the cabbages next door.
And it is equally futile for Hughes and
Holman to rush about trumpeting their
abhorrence of “juntas.” Whatever there
may be to say about these institutions the
public memory is long enough to recall that
neither found out he disliked a junta, or that
juntas were a public peril, until the iniqui-
ties failed to respond to his manipulation,
and brutally threw him off the premises.
Both these men are to-day where it is good
for Labor they should be—at the head of
parties, united merely by a blither about the
war, having one definite purpose. That is to
dish Labor. It is where they ought to have
been years ago,- for their influence on the
mind and policies of Labor had long been
demoralising. And Labor knew it, too —
knew that they were political tricksters, with
a single eye for the main chance, devoted to
no principle except the vital one of securing
direct personal advantages. Among the
great body of Labor electors standing apart
from the official camp-followers and party
scavengers Hughes and Holman were
always mistrusted. But they were made
much of and given the highest office, not
because of their merits as statesmen, but
because they were nimble-witted, and not at
all scrupulous tacticians who could win
elections and scheme their party into place
and power. The Labor party never should
have trafficked in such qualities. Yet there
are very few signs that it has learned the'
lesson that, taking the very lowest ground,
it doesn’t pay to magnify those doubtful
qualities which it cultivated in these two
men. It appointed them its leaders, and
gave them a huge advertisement; and while
they led the party into the ditch, they got
for themselves an advt. which is their valu-
able goodwill, and is now to be used against
the party. And the party deserves it all for
forsaking the narrow path and putting its
confidence in tricks instead of principles.
«
Office-Hunting in Westralia.
Westralian Premier Wilson has had a
hard struggle to ge't to the haven of recess.
Throughout the session the Liberal-Country
Party majority was so narrow that the
whip had to be always cracking. Once the
Opposition caught the Government napping,
with three unpaired Country Party mem-
bers away in the baokblocks looking on at a
rabbit-slaughtering entertainment. The
Opposition 'jumped at the chance: the State
Trading Concerns Bill had its innards
knocked out of it, and Wilson snorted dis-
solution threats. Actually he waited on the
Governor; but somebody winked and nothing
happened—except that those who were not
in the know were duly impressed, particu-
larly the Country Party. A general election
at once would probably have meant good-
night politically to most of the eight hayseed
representatives. Wherefore they had a
hurried conference, and as a result Wilson
led their leader, Willmott, by the ear into
the presence of his Ex., where he promised
that his little following would be good and
support the Government solidly for the
remainder of the session. The Government
then tossed all its controversial Bills over-
board in order that Ministers might have
a chance, free from the turmoil of Parlia-
ment, to “attend to their departmental
duties.” But instead of letting them have
a bit of peace and quiet, Opposition-leader
Scaddan had the bad taste to table a motion
of no-confidence. After some days of hesita-
tion Trot, the Labor Speaker, threw up his
job—and that is where the Independent
Party of one (Bertie Johnston) came in.
Bertie allowed himself to be seen in close
conference with the Labor Party Whip.
Moreover, Bertie, when questioned by press-
men as to his attitude towards Scaddan’s
motion, was darkly mysterious. Rumors of
an amendment coming from the Independent
Party floated about, and the Government
began to sit up and take notice. When
Troy’s decision was officially announced,
the Premier hesitated not a moment. He
moved that Bertie Johnston be Speaker.
That knocked the wind out of the Opposi-,
tion. When it recovered it hastily nomi-
nated Liberal member Stubbs, of Wagin;
but as he was not in the House the Clerk
ruled his nomination out of order and the
Independent Party was led to the chair, and
the Government still had a majority of one.
But the Ministerial troubles were not ended.
Stubbs reappeared on the scene when the
House met again, looking as if someone
had stolen his lunch and drained the bottle.
He would not enter the Chamber, but lurked
in the lobbies looking ominous. A vote on
an Opposition challenge of the Speaker’s
ruling was carried by the casting-vote of
Bertie himself, and if Stubbs adheres to
an alleged threat to take no further part in
divisions Speaker Johnston will be a hard-
worked man, and the fate of the Govern-
ment will bang by a hair of his wig. At
the time of writing it looks probable that
the Government will crawl into the long
recess, which will be ended by the general
elections near the end of the year. If the
public of W.A. —sickened of the game of
party politics and alarmed by the financial
drift —could have its way the crowd of poli-
ticians would be sacked and an Official
Receiver called in to clean up the mess.
A Tormented Bone Specialist.
Tiie Bulletin sincerely hopes that 11. J. A.
Berry, Professor of Anatomy at Melbourne
University, lectures with more wisdom about
the structure of the funnybone than he writes
about “Democracy.” On that subject lie
wails like a soul in eternal agony. His main
trouble seems to be that Democracy worships
the cult of incompetence—that it is improvi-
dent, inefficient and wasteful, has always
been a failure, and always must be, and that
Europe has found out lately that it spells
death. All of which is about as futile and
pointless as if the Professor had put his
head in a bag and sung “Rule Britannia!”
Would Dr. Berry care to say that
the difficulties of government in demo-
cratic France are greater than in des-
potic Russia or absolutist Germany?
That the cult of incompetence flour-
ishes more in the United States than in
Turkey? That Democracy in Switzerland
and France is a shabby-looking institution
compared with the splendidly-virile scheme
of government produced in Austria and
Hungary and Prussia? Would he even care
to argue that Britain shows the slightest
sign of an intention to banish her democratic
institutions as a precaution against going
to the morgue? If he did he would have a
hard job, for if there is any one lesson that
the people of Europe have learned better
than another in the last two years, it is that
autocracies, kings, diplomatists and irrespon-
sible Parliaments are by comparison with
government by Democracy mere survivals of
barbarism. That there are dangers in
Democracy is so obvious as to be mere plati-
tude. There are dangers in eating fish, get-
ting married, buying a cow or going to the
races. But to accuse Democracy of being
tolerant of ignorance and incompetence is
only to produce an allegation that can be
levelled with 50 times greater force against
every other form of government tried by this
weary Old world. Berry is really in a state
of hopeless mental confusion, and can appar-
ently bring no stronger support to some wild
assertions about Australia than an extract
from something written by a German com-
mentator who conceals his identity under an
English name. But there may be a method
in this, for Berry’s conception of the rela-
tionship of the State and the individual
takes a form that suggests tremendous admi-
ration for the institution which European
democracies are now struggling to seize by
the throat. Here is Berry’s idea: —
The State must control our education, and be the
foster-mother of every activity in all industrial and
scientific spheres, and we in return must learn —as
the working classes of Europe have already learned—
that we are the servants, not the masters, of the
State, that the State is in very deed our over-soul,
and may demand any sacrifices from us.
This is the concentrated essence of Prus-
sianism. A man who has that conception of
the State, and spends his spare time yelling
about the vices and dangers of democracy, is
really asking mankind to go back to a poison
of which every democracy ever known was
an organised effort to purge the human mind.
“ Jacko” : The Bulletin has had something
to say about the Defence Department’s Pay,
Works and Pension branches. There has
been equal muddle and waste and mis-
management on the Supplies side. When I
was in a job dealing with camp supplies in
and around Sydney, each day the Service
transport carts, State Bakery motor-lorries
and meat-vans roared out from the Central
Supply Depot and the contractors’ bases
with tons of goods. At that time 50 per
cent, of the men were being allowed leave
each night (it amounted to 90 per cent_.in
practice), and only a few remained in camp
for the last meal of the day. This fact,
harnessed to the purchase of eatables from
the private canteen, meant that the supplies
were about a third in excess each day. The
stuff piled up rapidly, so that, besides the
direct waste of meat and bread, we had,
when one camp was declared off, sufficient
jam, pepper, flour, sugar, candles, etc.,-to set
up a decent-sized grocer’s shop. Where it
all went.l don’t know, but I didn't hear of
it going back to the depdt for redistribution.
As one of the fatuous heads explained:
“That would never have done —it would
have messed up the contractors’ calcula-
tions'* ! It had evidently never occurred to
the Defence Department to regulate the
camps’ supplies according to the demands.
The demand is artificially created by the
daily parade states, showing the number of
men present in camp in the morning. Then,
on the basis of so much to each man, the
stufE is hauled along to the supplies rooms
and stacked in the good old official way. It
might be against departmental traditions,
but certainly more consistent with public
interest, if things were run something like
this: the central depot to fire along to the
camps enough for a day or so to provide
against accidents, a daily stock-taking to be
practised, and orders for further supplies to
be made out on the basis of requirements—
real requirements, not fictitious ones drawn
up on the what-might-have-been principle.
This could apply to everything but meat
and bread. In business the grocer generally
tells the-wholesale supplier what he wants;
the supplier does not do the dictating.
An inspector of the Public Health Depart-
ment having made a tour of some eating-
houses at Manly (Sydney) the other day,
the public casually read in the newspapers
the old, familiar yarn. It was mostly about
cockroaches, and filth of ancient lineage,
and ooze and slime and alarming aromas —•
the kind of yarn that has been told a thou-
sand times about the restaurant kitchen,
though the Manly episodes hayl a touch of
novelty by the discovery of an establish-
ment where Private Enterprise kept tin'
ham wrapped up in his shirt and left his
pants among the tea. Apart from the dirt
the outstanding fact in connection with
this business is that the law handles the
situation with ridiculous delicacy. Fining
an individual who runs one of these caves
of horror four or five pounds is absurdly
lenient. Such a person should at once be
put on a municipal black list and called
upon to answer a charge of coquetting with
murder if at any date within 15 years from
the time of conviction he is detected looking
at or touching food except for personal
nourishment.
«
“Sub-section II.”: I’m tipping that the
legal sharks won’t go hungry when the
new Workmen’s Compensation Act comes
into force in N. S. Wales on July 1. Our
present Act was hatched in 1930, and the
Digest for the years 1910-35 shows five cases.
An Act which provides lawyers with one
Supreme Court case per year pays a very
poor dividend as statutes go. My convic-
tion is that Costs’ harvest only begins in
July next. The Act of 1916 contains (Sec-
tion 5) the words “personal injury by acci-
dent arising out of and in the course of the
employment.” Unless it is that particular
sort of accident no claim can be brought.
The same words appear in the English
Statute, and they are responsible for a good
proportion of a many-volumed library of
cases. Here are a few typical samples of
the fine points that arise :—■
1. A woman was ordered to work upon boxes
larger and heavier than those she was accustomed to
handle. The continued strain brought on an
internal injury. The Court held that there was no
“accident’’ responsible for the injury, and so she had
no claim.
2. A workman employed on a wharf who had to
stand on a staging was suddenly seized with an
apoplectic fit. He fell into the hold of the ship and
was hurt. It was held that this was an accident
and one which arose out of the course of his employ-
ment.
3. A boy was working for an employer who had
been in an asylum and was still somewhat ratty.
He attacked the boy with a chopper and partially
carved him up. This it was held was not an acci-
dent arising out of the employment.
4. A wasp stung a man on the leg and he developed
blood poisoning and died. The job he was on was
working a threshing machine. The Court held that
his work did not make him any more liable to
wasps’ stings than the rest of mankind and therefore
he had no claim.
Hundreds of these cases on the doubtful
borderland could be given. There is also a
most lucrative string of arguments centred
round the question of who are “dependants”
of a workman. And there is marrow in the
word “contractor.” The Courts, too, will
define and re-define what is the proper notice
required by the Act. With every wage-
earner a possible source of litigation under
the new Act, I think the wigs are in for a
fine time.
♦
“Copabella” : “We’ve-done-enough” doesn't
apply only to the gentleman of the frozen
hoof; the manufacturer has the same com-
plaint. In one Australian city there are
dozens of small manufacturing saddlers with
valuable personal connections, but there is
only one well-known maker of trees —saddle-
trees, the hardwood and bent-iron contrap-
tion upon which the hogskin is stretched and
fixed. Naturally he is doing well, and, like
the shirt-makers and the flannel-weavers,
isn’t keen on doing much better; so half the
time the saddlers are kept back in their
work. But the tiny monopolist won’t assist
by increasing his output. Increased output
means teaching more men how to make trees,
and every man taught is a potential business
rival. Moral: Don’t teach anybody. In
ordinary times my informant sends his tree-
patterns to England, gets a copy back, and
then, if the copy is satisfactory, orders one
or two gross! The Melbourne makers—a
little close corporation of immigrants—dole
out their precious trees by the two or three.
This is one of our many missed war-chances
to butt in with a new industry. A saddle-tree
does not look an intricate piece of machinery.
But, actually, it is an affair of delicate
balance, generally hand-fashioned by men
who gain a reputation as tree-makers, just
as the Gippsland blacksmith obtains his as a
maker of shingling “froes” ; a shade out of
balance either way means destroyed leather
or waste of highly-paid time in “fitting” the
misfit. It may be too tedious a job for the
Australian who prefers to do his manufac-
turing by kicking in a clutch or pressing a
button, but it should not be past his skill,
anyhow. One thing is certain: this par. will
not have reached the U.S.A. or Nippon a
week before those lovers of enterprise will be
at, work on the -problem of supplying that
paradise of fools, Australia, with what
Britain is at present prevented from doing.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz.* the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand Avill be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W,:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure withAUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Comer P’tt
&, King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE, & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY - , Chairman. _G^_lloWARD_^oPE : _Gen ; era£ - J/a»age)^
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
FIVE NIGHTS. EIGHT DAYS. .
APRIL 3 TO APRIL 11, 1917.
£9OOO
PRIZES
entries close.
£9OOO
Horses, March 3 ; Cattle, Sheep and Pigs, March 5 ; Poultry, March 6 ; Dogs March Agricutare,
Fruits and Dairy Produce, March 9; Women’s Industries, March 10; Miscellaneous, March 17.
PRIZES SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney. ' 11. M. SOMER, Secretary.
Well, Is It to Be a Licking?
I* 1 Lloyd George had performed no other
public service than to induce the British
people to believe that the war would
never be won until they knocked off
browsing on fiction, he would have
done a big thing. It has been the
curse of Australia that during the
greater part of this hideous struggle the
people have been deluded by yarns con-
cocted for the purpose of keeping them
stuffed with the material that dreams are
made of. The Bulletin can recall the
time when it was instructed that not
even in the dissection of balance sheets
was it to tell the truth about the
grimness of the struggle ahead. Even
up till to day the course of the war in which
an Australian army is fighting has not been
the subject of discussion in the Common-
wealth Parliament except as a side-line, nor
has the Minister for Defence communicated
to that Parliament even a fragment of the
placed before the Parliaments
of every other combatant country. The
war goes on from month to month as a re-
mote sort of affair about which Australia
hears by reading doctored newspapers, and
it is a safe thing to say that 90 per cent,
of the population is still in a state of hope-
less ignorance regarding the magnitude of
the contract before the Allies and the perils
of their own land. The dangers are many.
Before they are removed the whole face of
Europe has td be altered. It is to rouse
the British people to a realisation of what
this means —to look at the naked facts before
them—that Lloyd George has struggled for
a couple of years. And he is not now tell-
ing them that the submarine is of no import-
ance, or mouthing about “the paucity of
German reserves” or the “demoralised con-
dition of the enemy’s army.” What he is
telling them is that they must tighten their
belt and work and save and fight if they
would escape a licking. Tt is no use pre-
tending that the German raid on shipping
has not introduced new and deadly factors
into the proceedings. Nor are the statisti-
cal calculations occasionally published
worth tuppence. The clear facts are that
in the disturbed area the German is taking
a big toll and that in the judgment of the
British Ministry heavy restrictions must be
put on imports and economies practised in
the kitchen. Reduced to simple terms, the
strain of war is becoming more acute than
ever, and the need for exertion and organ-
isation greater than before. Certainly there
are some encouraging signs. But they are
negative rather than positive. Some suc-
cesses by British troops early in the week
appear to have been easily gained. _ But
their significance may just as easily be
exaggerated. Further, the stories about
the German’s food supply which are again
frequent may contain the elements of truth.
Or they may not. Germany is behind a
heavy screen. There is certainly nothing
to show that Lloyd George thinks the con-
dition of the Hun’s store-room can be relied
on to defeat Fritz. He takes the view that
armies supported by resolute people will
alone do this; and if the people fail the
armies cannot win.
Over in Maoriland the late edition of the
local paper with the racing results is waited
for with less expectancy than the early pro-
duction that is rushed out when the results
of a military-service ballot are available.
The young man thereabouts is more inter-
ested in that sweep than in anything else
on earth. A ballot to draw 10,000 names
for service was taken one morning last
month, and at midday the draw was the
star item of news in an issue of the Christ-
church Sun. There w'ere 13 columns of
names for Canterbury Province, and every-
body who expected to draw a blank was
after that paper in a hurry to see if a prize
had arrived instead. This reasonable, ex-
peditious way of raising an army is the
method Australia rejected in favor of one
which omits to raise anything except a wild
uproar about something else. The result
is that Maoriland is providing reinforce-
ments in a practical way and the Common-
wealth is providing itself with Win-the-War
days and hot air.
At the last moment the Win-the-Portfolios
Coalition promised a new dish of tariff-revi-
sion : “The whole question is to be taken
into consideration at the ’ earliest opportu-
nity.” The Liberal section of the coalition
has always shown great patience in waiting
for this opportunity. In 1912, when it pub-
lished its constitution and platform, the
Australian Liberal Union declared itself
pledged to readjust the tariff' - ; and it has
continued to be pledged to readjust the tariff
ever since. In sticking resolutely to their
policy of waiting for an opportunity to
reform the tariff the Cook Liberals have no
superior anywhere. In fact, the party could
easily get registration as the Cooks and
Waiters’ Union.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pink Lady
Palace “Very Good Eddie
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt's Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Smart Set
White City Various Shows
MEI.ItOriINK SHOWS FOIi COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built
Royal “Intolerance
Princess’s “The Rivals”
King’s “Turn to the Right
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Dandies
Hoyt’s Du Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “Romeo and Juliet”
AtheNtEUm Magician Malini & 00.
-V ,
“Turn to the Eight,” presented by the
Tuits at Melbourne King’s on Saturday
night, is an Amurkan miracle play wherein
crooks acquire haloes, cons radiate peace and
goodwill, village clowns become Pierpont
Morgans, and every black cloud has a golden
lining. The instigator of all this heavenliness
is a dear old lady named Bascom, who has
all the elemental qualities of antiquated
stage mothers, but reveals iu addition the
hitherto unexploited power of getting her
sugariness into her jams and pickled fruit.
Anything that Mother makes has the divine
flavor, and the atmosphere about her is a
sort of aerated molasses. When her boy.
Joe, comes home, dour and embittered by a
year of Sing Sing, the sweet influence of his
muvyer gives him a curate-like confidence in
the good of the world. Likewise, when two
of his pals, Muggs, a pickpocket, and Gilly,
a safe-blower, are lured by the odor of
Mother’s peach preserve into her wonderfully
hospitable kitchen- both speedily repent their
numerous transgressions and becS*-iie her
idolators right away. About this stage the
pair could affect little flat hats and wear
their collars back to front without causing
much surprise; but they decide to delay
their return to rectitude in order to save
Mrs. Bascom from financial pressure.
“Maw” owes Deacon Tillinger 125 dollars,
and as the only cash to pay the debt reposes
in the Deacon’s safe, it is a bit of ro itinc
work for Gilly to extract the coin and settle
the Shclock’s unjust demands. The Deacon,
however, is not allowed to retire with his
roll of notes. After he has given the desired
receipt. Muggs’s expert fingers turn his ensh
pocket into an empty hole, and the plunder
is returned with the assistance of Gilly to
its former address in the Deacon’s safe. The
scene is easily the best in the piece and in
its comedy and adroitness surpasses the
subsequently pleasing but far-fetched pro-
ceedings which achieve marvels of prosperity
for all concerned. The peach orchard, it
seems, has become astoundingly productive,
and realises a scene of great happiness at
curtain-drop, disclosing Joe, Muggs, _ Gilly
and the village simpleton, Sam Martin, all
lavishly tailored and full of food, in the
act of pairing off with the available flappers
before a significant background buzz of
automobiles.
Sophisticated playgoers will find the senti-
mentality of the comedy rather cloying, its
pathos occasionally on the heels yf bathos.
SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE PANTO.
The fat Le Grok and Spider Le Grok in
two quaint walks.
and its artless good nature too obviously con-
trived., But many will like it for its whole-
somefiess, its exhibition of maternal solici-
tude, and its steady belief in the efficacy of
prayer. In the matter of characterisation
its principal assets are Mrs. Bascom and the
two crooks, Muggs and Gilly. The dame, who
turns her kitchen into a kind of spiritual
Lourdes, where all moral infirmities are
miraculously cured, is all candy and endear-
ments. soft speeches and beautiful faith, in
the capable hands of Margaret Calvert. John
Junior seems like an escaped chorister as
Muggs, and exercises blandishment on all
by the very cheeriness of his reformation.
Stapleton Kent makes the savant in safe-
blowing a more sinister personality. Walter
P. Richardson is ingratiating in his physical
aspects, and suitable in voice and bearing,
for the more conventional role of Joe Bascom.
Vincent -T. Dennis, as the jolly Sam Martin,
has the air of speaking and eating at the
same time, but with a little more experience,
of his genial methods one hopps to distinguish
between the discourse and the mastication.
Personally, however, Vincent is a likeable
young man, and is responsible for much of
the humor in the last two acts. Lizette
Parkes gives the soft part of Betty Bascom
all the necessary features of impulsive flap-
perdom. Nancye Stewart and Eileen Sparkes
are other agreeable ingenues; George
Chalmers figures earnestly as Deacon Tillin-
ger; and Gaston Mervale is a mild, imma-
terial villain. The scenery is everywhere
effective, and in the final set furnishes an
entertaining view of the hero and his bride
motoring home.
“VERY GOOD EDDIE," AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Miss Rerette and some of the latest stripe
dreams in "The Fashion Show."
The Allan Wilkie Co. was responsible for
a fairly satisfactory production of “The
Rivals” at Melbourne Princess’s last Satur-
day night. Allan himself, fittingly garbed,
obliges, with a hearty representation of old
Anthony Absolute, with, perhaps, a suspi-
cion of testiness in his loudest laughter, lie
seems most effective when he reveals his son’s
true identity to Lydia Languish in Mrs.
Malaprop’s lodgings. Vivian Edwards is
cast as Captain Absolute, but doesn't make
a specialty of the impersonation. Edwards
is a rough, homespun actor whose big voice
tends to turn the tenderest parley with
Lvdia into something resembling an alterca-
tion. Lydia is a graceful study of sweet
feminine reasonableness and decorum in the
care of Miss Hunter-Watts. The actress has
probably rehearsed every movement of the
part, for every pose is a picture, and every
gesture nearly a poem. Also she dresses the
character with such elegance and taste that
Julia (Miss Lorna Forbes), in her plebeian
pink, looks almost outre in her vicinity. How-
ever, Julia is evidently the One for Walter
Hunt as Faulkland. John Cosgrove’s Lucius
O’Trigger is extra sound in wind and limb,
and is furnished with a torso that sets off
iiis raiment to perfection. The name of
Acres implies amplitude and arrogance, but
Edward Landor is incapable of suggesting
either quality. Landor presents a citizen
of meagre stature who seems to be faintly
tickled at the absurdity of being. Beverly’s
rival. Owing to the illness of Miss Gladys
Leigh on Saturday night, Miss Mary Ney
had to drop the part of Lucy and read that
of Mrs. Malaprop. For later performances
Miss Mabel Russell came in. and Miss Ney
got back to the artful Lucy. Henri Dore is
efficient as Fag, and Fred Patey is lugu-
brious as David. The scenery and furnish-
ings are excellent, the interior of Lydia
Languish’s room especially showing artistic
imagination.
Already there is a coolness in the air.
Even now a young man’s fancy lightly turns
to woollen underpants and warmer socks.
The days are drawing in ; the coat and skirt
is seen on the streets, and fur coats appear
once more from cold-storage vaults where
the moth doth not burgle. Autumn heralds
his approach with a hint of shrewdness in
the breeze; birds of passage like Hughes and
"VERY GOOD EDDIE." AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Fayette Perry and Barry Lupino in a
pyjama dance.
Holman 11 utter their wings impatiently for
long flights overseas. And, despite the
efforts of the Daylight Saving scheme, it will
not be ‘‘Fair and Warmer” at the Sydney
Criterion much longer.
“The Pink Lady” is settling down for a
long non-stop run at Sydney Majesty’s. A
lot of paying patrons have yet to see the
show before the management can invite the
■secretaries of Bands of Hope, ecclesiastical
colleges and so forth to make applications
for free tickets.
:Jc >',i tri ,
A dispute with the orchestra been
temporarily patched up, “Very Good Eddie’
is revolving at the old pace at Sydney
Palace, and the trombone is snoring peace-
fully in its chair instead of snorting indig-
nantly outside. It is a bright show; in fact,
it was a bright show even with only three
bandsmen and Barry Lupino for a drummer.
The Fullers’ valuable “Bunyip” panto,
breathes its last on Friday night at the
Opera House, Sydney, aged 87.
Several nights lately there has been a
gap in the front teeth of the cove known
as Sydney Tivoli Bill. As the Sentimental
Bloke might remark in a forgetful moment
of prose, “Crool Fate ’as swung ’is dirty
left and knocked Fred Bluett out'.’ Bat,
no doubt, Dentist Time will screw him in
again. Meanwhile Malcolm McKachern is
singing louder so that people won’t notice,
and Frederick Whitlow (now “Private
Whitlow”) is enjoying a public farewell
before he takes his call on the battlefield.
Graham and Phillips share the dancing with
Keeley and Aldous, Zona Trader fiddles,
Marie King Scott travels in rustic simpli-
city. Belle Oliver sings and De Forrest
tricks. Also ran: the Takiness Duo.
The Smart Set. at the Garden Theatre
(Sydney), continue to specialise the brief
revue. “The Orange Girl ’ is this week s
bright and breezy sample, and gives comedi-
ans George Titehener and Walter Genge a
claim for a bonus when the profits are cut
up. But the show is unusually even, particu-
larly in its singing value, so they can all
have a bonus.
As this poor but honest publication goes
to press, the management of the White City
(Sydney) announces that it has another sur-
prise on the roster for this evening. _ This
show is becoming more like politics in Aus-
tralia every day.
Sydney screenings this week: —
Hoyt’s : Olga Petrova at her best in “The Black
Butterfly,” a mixture of mashes and crashes.
Lyric: “The Murder of Capt. Frvatt,” the Aus-
tralian Feature Film Co.’s version of the Gerhogs
revenge on the skipper of The Brussels.
Crystal Palace : Last of the 40 reels of Billie
Burke in “Gloria’s Romance.”
The cause of Charity involves the panto,
crowd at Melbourne Majesty’s in an extra
matinee to-morrow (Friday) afternoon.
While the grown-ups of the company indulge
in minstrel and variety business, the_ young-
sters will mimic their elders in a juvenile
version of “The House That Jack Built.
This part of the show is expected to draw
the town and yield a record bag for division
between the Children’s Hospital and the
J.C.W. Comic Opera Benevolent Fund. Mean-
while the panto, goes on as before, without
any further hint as to the date of the final
performance.


&
tf
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
A
C Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
ii
Gream
► of
the Norlh
!f*ED
jStarJ
Whisky.
A RIDER’S HAT.
This is a hat that will PROTECT the.
face and head. Its wide adjustable brim
(3i inches) will not blow down over the
eyes. Riders and drivers will appreciate
this advantage. The hat is neatly fin-
ished in smooth mid Grey or Fawn Felt.
Sent post-paid and securely boxed to any
address for
PE, APE S & C? U?
15/6.
Ask for the
“ADAPTA.
Please state size.
PEAPES U CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 8 311 George Street Sydney.
a
li ;
The Passing Show people at Melbourne
Tivoli are frivolling away their last nights
in a new programme wherein a couple of old
Stroller specialties are repeated without the
crowd detecting the wrinkles.
Annette Kellerman's amazing transitions
from the Semi-Bare to the Scantily-Clothed
finish at Melbourne Auditorium to-morrow
night. On Saturday William Fox unrolls
his spectacular 'Murkau version of "Romeo
and Juliet/’ Theda Bara. Fox's most ex-
pensive vampire, will attempt to suppress her
notorious gloat in the part of Shakspeare’s
gentle heroine.
The man who wants close-up views of the
ugliest human passions will get all he wants
in "Intolerance.” the big Griffith film at Mel-
bourne Royal. In the four stories of
Jerusalem. Babylon, medieval Paris and
modern Amurka that scramble along in inco-
herent bursts of infamy for about three
hours, there is nothing more apparent than
the bad Yankee habit of elaborating gross-
ness in order to catch dollars. Such things
as the rape of the maiden in the St. Bar-
tholomew massacre, the satyr’s pursuit of the
girl wife in the U.S. section, and the endear-
ments bestowed on half-naked harlots in the
scenes of ancient Babylon leave so little to
the imagination that one might just as.well
chloroform it —perhaps better. The pictorial
emphasis of these unsavory episodes relieves
“Intolerance” of its artistic pretensions, and
1. The artist went
to a show, and
2. In "between whiles
noticed THAT.
makes it more a parade of corpse and con-
cupiscence.
The Dandies are still contributing to the
noise on the St. Kilda (Vic.) Esolanade.
The bright little company is now strong in
dancing, mainly owing to the efforts of Linda
Ockleshaw and John Campbell. Last Satur-
day the pair got busy in “The Dance of
the Ages,” featuring various forms of ball-
room motion, from the old Gavotte to the
latest Amurkan “Saunter.” Among the
singers tenor Robert Agnew scored in an
ethereal ditty entitled “Rose Petals.”
Robert can only become lyrical over pressed
pansies, drooping lilac and other moribund
vegetation. If he were asked to warble
about stewed rhubarb or a pint of beer, he
would probably burst into tears.
At Ilo.vt’s Melbourne house last week-end,
Mabel Taliaferro was getting publicity in a
five-act Metro story christened “The Sun-
beam.” Mabel, of course, figures successfully
as the Sunbeam, and goes through the usual
ritual of lightening the lives of misanthropes
and curing crooks of their ugly failings. The
film is less exciting and more conventional
in development than the other Hoyt narra-
tive, “Boots and Saddles,”, adapted from a
drama by Eugene Walter. In “Boots and
Saddles” the gun-play is willing and free,
and the plot wanders by devious paths to a
sensational destination.
Magician Malini, the entirely different
illusionist, commences a season at Melbourne
Athenaeum next Saturday night.
Adelaide found the Tivoli Follies’ season
too short. They are a bright crowd, and the
Yates pair especially are greatly improved.
The trick of blacking-out the stage when
the foolishness gets too foolish is a handy
way of ending a turn. By an odd chance,
both they and the other Follies (“of
Pleasure”) at the Majestic have a scene of
a puzzled reveller sharing, with a lady who
seems to enjoy it, a drink that isn't really
there at all. American filmists are having a
run on the shrew-taming idea; once carry
off a girl, and treat her brutally enough, and
she is bound to love you. “The Beast” at
the Royal is a fine breathless example. But
Annette Kellerman at "West's has brought
the ocean with her, and provides the biggest
spectacle in sight.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Jwosp” : Henry Bracy was the most
sacked mummer in Australia when he was
with J.CAV. Day after day the guv’nor,
with a grouch because the imported leading
lady was a duffer or for .some other reason,
would rap out, “You d—d old fool, Bracy!
You know nothing about it. (Jet out! Don’t
come near my theatre again!’’ The next
day saw Bracy cheerfully meeting the chief
and continuing his work quite regardless of the
“bag” he was supposed to have received. On
one occasion he took the guv'nor seriously
and stayed away The next time William-
son saw him he fairly roared : “You d d
old fool. Bracy. what do you mean? (Jet
back to work.” They never misunderstood
one another again.
“Myee”: Ilnrcourt Beatty was not long
content with home-defence duties, but la 1 had
a. briefer appearance at the Front, lie made
his debut there in June, and a. month later
had his right arm badly damaged by shrap-
3. And supposes this will come next.
nel. Writing to Australia he says that he
was afraid recovery would be a slow busi-
ness. The doctors could not operate till the
flesh had healed, and then they would have
to fasten the bone together with a metal
plate. Still, he concluded cheerfully, he had
been in the Big Push, and that was •‘some-
thing to be thankful for.”
“Masetto”: In a recent performance of
“Lohengrin” by the Chicago Opera Co. the
title role was sung by Haigli Jackson, the
none too brilliant baritone who appeared
here in “Ma Mie Bosette” and "The Coun-
try Girl” a decade or so back. Since then
he has coaxed his voice up to the tenor pitch.
Jackson’s wife, Anita Sutherland, who used
to air a fine mezzo-soprano on Melbourne
concert platforms, was the Ortrud in
Chicago, and Australian Arthur Deane was
also in the cast.
“J.F.H.” (London) : There’s a sensation
in Variety Land caused by the refusal of the
County Council to renew the license of the
Middlesex Drury Lane, one of the handsome
vaudeville houses run by Oswald Stoll.
Certain warnings and directions were either
overlooked or disregarded, so the Council by
a large majority passed it out. The Middle-
sex had been specialising on revues of the
saucy order, and bit by bit crawled over the
fence. No doubt after a period of penitence
it will be restored to grace. Meantime the
Lord Chamberlain has intimated that, “if
satisfying guarantees are forthcoming,” he is
willing to license the place for the perform-
ance of regular plays. The ground on which
the house stands has been used for amuse-
ment purposes for hundreds of years. It was
the yard of an ancient pub called the Mogul,
where cock-fighting, bear-baiting, etc., flour-
ished. Probably on account of the etc., King
Charles 11. often patronised the place when
he had an evening off. There he met Nell
Gwynne, the orange-selling girl; she lived
opposite before Ins Maj. gave her the glad
eye and transferred her to more luxurious
quarters.
Mrs. Pat Campbell took an option over
the Australian rights of Bernard Shaw’s
"Pygmalion” from the author, and would
probably be here now or on the way but for
Armageddon. As it is, the lady has not
thrown up the idea of coming, and lately got
Shaw to give her first refusal of the "bloody”
play.
“C. Orkney” : One censor the less. Died
in London in November, George Alexander
Bedford, for 14 years’ official "reader oi
plays in England. f)uriug his term of office
he got through the MSS. of about 7001)
dramatic works, 43 of which on his recom-
mendation to the Lord Chamberlain were
not licensed for public performance. Among
the latter pieces were Maeterlinck's “Monna
Vanna,” Sliaw’s “Mrs. Warren’s Profession
and “The Showing-up of Blanco Posnet.”
Bedford resigned his unthankful job five
years ago, but did not go out of the censor-
ing business. The British film manufacturers
instituted a censorship of their jwn, and the
late play-reader got the billet. 11 is certifi-
cates are familiar wherever picture fanatics
are gathered together.
“Harrison O.” : “Turn to the Bight,” put
on by tlit Taits at Melbourne King’s, is
accused of being “something new” in Yankee
drama, but it is merely the same old “crook”
play gone to the country for the good of its
health. There is the same old pair of
“crooks” who, coming under sweet feminine
influence, yearn to reform; the same old pro-
blem of how to acquire the dallahs necessary
to a better life; the same old mushy senti-
ment. The “crooks” discover a wonderful
carpet-tack (this time it is a new sort of
peach jam), and just when their schemes
seem about to burst, the village idiot returns
from N’Yark with his pockets full of con-
tracts. There is the same old detective and
the same old last act in which the “crooks”
wear evening dress and cigars and become
emotional nnent their newly-acquired hon-
esty. The "something new” is, presumably,
the substitution of a peach factory lor a tack
orchard.
“Hamer”: Beaumont Smith, who has
been plunging a good deal in him produc-
tions, has a big spectacular bush fire in one
of them. He got it a couple of years ago,
before the film itself was thought of, during
a big blaze in the Mount Lofty (S.A.)
ranges. Thinking the effect too good to be
missed, Beau rushed out with his camera
and took it. He worked the fire into “Our
Friends the Hayseeds.” making a little blaze
of his own to introduce the characters who
try to save their homesteads. The Mount
Lofty fires cost the South Aus. Government
£50,000, but the brisk showman boxed the
lot for nothing.
“T. 0.1.”: Died recently, at Beifield’s
Hotel, in Sydney, Christina, widow of Fran-
cis Belfield, aged 89. In years gone by
Francis Belfield, a tailor, was amongst the
prominent mummers of Australia. From his
partiality for Irish parts he was known as
Paddy Belfield, and as far back as 1842 was
one of the managers of the City Theatre,
which was (and is, in a way) in Market-
street, next door to Boberts’s Hotel. While
in business in what is now Oxford-street he
conceived the idea that a theatre in that
neighborhood would pay, and obtaining a
lease from Syd Burdekin of land near
Yurong-street, formed a company to build
one. The walls were raised about 10ft.;
then money fell short, and Burdekin, being
much stronger, ran up a terrace of houses
with the bricks.
Hoyt’s, the picture-house established by
the late Arthur Bussell, was the only one in
Melbourne to pay the amusement tax until
the Paramount people opposite were com-
pelled to follow suit. Now there is a move-
ment in film exchange circles to “out” all the
blacklegs (the showmen who pay the tax) by
stopping their film supply. A big pow-wow
is on, and, incidentally, a move to “crack
Hoyt’s and its brother, the Co-operative Film
Exchange.
In Melbourne a benefit is being arranged
for Wilson Forbes, of the impressive grey
locks, who has been known in the “smalls”
of the various States for many years. He
was stage-manager for Mrs. Brown-Potter
when that picturesque mummer was here
with Kyrle Bellew. and he had a similar job
with Meynell and Gunn in pre-combine days.
“Micawber” : The Taits are giving quite a
lot of old friends a chance to see Sydney
again across the footlights. The officer of
the stage craft that carries the first act of
“Very Good Eddie” is Leslie Donuaghey, a
Victorian boy, who was one of Pollard’s
juveniles, and toured America some six years
ago with that combination. Donnagliey
staved around ’Frisco, being prominent in
many tabloid burlesques, where, if he did not
gain headline honors, he at times deserved
them.
“Yallambee” : Stanley Walpole, now being
featured in Vitagrapli films, was a player of
second- and third-rate parts in local shows.
He comes from the Melbourne industrial
suburb of Yarraville, and was with the
Bland Holt crowd for years playing
minor parts. When he was still tethered
to Yarraville by cru-el Fate, his clobber, his
actor strut and his patrician cast of coun-
tenance were too much for the local lads.
But they didn't worry the splendid vision,
who smiled through it all. Now, after a
very few years in the 1 • l'*., he is getting his
plate of fat in the movies, and those same
loungers are probably gaping astonished at
lus camera ghost.
“F.L.11.” : Carrie Nelson (.Mrs. Macfadyu)
died in London a few weeks ago. She was a
daughter of Sydney Nelson, the composer ot
"Mary of Argyle,” “Madeline” and other
ditties beloved by tenors. In the late oOs
Nelson and his family spent some years m
Australia, and at a benefit tendered to him
at the Melbourne Royal in December, BSbU,
G. V. Brooke and Avonia Jones headed the
bill. That was the last we saw of dad ; but
Carrie revisited Australia and Maoriland in
her grown-up days.
“Accordeon”: The musicians engaged at
Melbourne Royal have been on tenterhooks
for some months past on account ol the
installation of an organ. The lira has
brought to light an instrument, original lj
introduced by the late Geo. Musgrove, and
has been pushing the windy attfin in to
replace the orchestra. A wise man has been
on the job to convert it into an eleetricallj-
driven affair, and this scheme has eaten up
months and months. There is plenty ol
organ, but so far the experts haventraised
sufficient wind to blow out a match, h t alont
"Gor Save." In U.S.A. tin' organ craze
especially in the movie business, knocked out
the musicians for a while; but they Inn
mostly got back.
“Gin Fiz” : Bernhardt’s New York season
has been but moderately successful. Spec";
lators. who do most of the selling of tickets
for Broadway attractions, have been badl,\
stung. The demand for seats to see the
divine Sarah became so sluggish that they
were glad to offer three-dollar seats at hall
the price.
Last week The Bulletin had something
to say about the authorities calling for appli-
cations for a director of the Walter Bussell
Hall Institute of Pathology in England but
not in Australia. Such an action would not
have been in the least likely to meet with
the late Walter Russell Hall’s approval; for
at Mt. Morgan and elsewhere he stuck splen-
didly to the Australian, and especially the
Australian scientist. Fortunately. the
apparent departure from tin* benetactoi s
policy admits of explanation. Advts. were
prepared for Australia, Alaorilancl and
Britain. When the “copy” reached London
the Agent-General cabled that it was a very
bad time to call for such applications and
forwarded certain representations, On these
the trustees decided to hold over the
appointment of a permanent director, and a
cable was sent to London accordingly. At
the same time the Australian and M.L.
advts. were withheld. But the cable was
delayed by' war messages, and the advts.
were printed in England before the instruc-
tions to withhold them were delivered.
One Sinclair, a student, of the Institute
for the Blind at Auckland, matriculated in
Maoriland the other day, flying through 111
English. Latin, English history, mathe-
matics and geography. He studied under
two sightless teachers, Algie and Outram.
It is the first time in M.L. that the honor
has been reached where the blind has led
the blind.
What can you expect? The fusion was
arranged by six party “managers” and five
of them were Freetraders. In a Cabinet ot
11, led by a Freetrade Prime Minister, there
are seven Freetraders, and each of the
seven has a portfolio. Tim leaders in both
Houses are pronounced foreign-traders. The
Customs portfolio has been given to Jensen,
who at the last election announced that lie
regarded the tariff as of no immediate im-
portance. To look for genuine Protection
from such a crew is as reasonable as it would
be to expect legislation for the suppression
of pawnshops from a Cabinet that was
mostly Cohen and Levi when it wasn t
Isaacs and Abrahams.
Prime Minister Hughes gave his old
Labor following a nasty jolt when he
declared that the extension of the life of
the present Parliament was one of the
tilings he was sent to London to accomplish.
•‘The instruction was: ‘Whatever else you
do, don’t forget that.’ ” The Labor party
wasn’t dishonest about it, though : it didn t
profess that it wanted the electors dis-
franchised in the interests of the Allies.
At that time it was in the tart-shop, and
it wanted to stay there —that was all. But
that doesn’t alter the position one bit. The
matter isn’t one for the agent: it is one for
the principal. If the job pays the agent, ot
course the agent wants it continued.
THE PLAYGOER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When work is done, and put away,
If I can spare the price,
T like to go and see the play,
The hero is so nice.
His little wife so well he treats,
It’s beautiful to see;
llis darling child he never beats —•
How different existence metes
Its favors out to me!
The hero never comes home tight,
His voice is soft and low,
And if there's danger he’ll delight
To intercept the blow.
He will not see her want, but goes
Without that she may eat;
His money in her lap he throws —
In some far country, I suppose,
Such husbands one may meet.
Whatever comes, his every thought
Is of the heroine.
Not with such happiness is fraught
This narrow life of mine.
He wraps her to his breast as if
He’d shield her with his life.
I lore tlie plays, .such change they give
From dull, hard rounds in which we live.
I am the actor’s wife!
VICTOKIA.
STARGAZER.


THERE 15 NOTHING MORE ATTRACTIVE
THAN THE COMELY WOMAN.
THE QUALITIES THAT MAKE THE COMELY WOMAN ARE
The Luxuriant Hair, the fine smooth Skin, the charm of dazzling: Teeth. Even
the plain woman who cares for herself and does not despise those little arts which
make for Comeliness, becomes the Comely Woman.
John WINTER'S
TOILET PREPARATIONS make the COMELY WOMAN.
Our Soap, Powder (3 tints), Lalishmi Skin Cream and Lotion, New Face Cream!
(3 Colors), Dental Cream, Hair Foods (Oily and Non-Oily), Carmine, Perspiration
Powder, Dry Shampoo, Curative Ointmen 1 and Creme Marquise
ARE USED BY ROYALTY and were AWARDED SIX GOLD MEDALS.
Obtainable from all Departmental Stores. Inquire at Civil Service, Washington
H. Soul, Hordern Bros., Lassetter’s, Anthony Horderns’, etc.
Send 2d. Stamp for sample of Soap or Powder to John Strange Winter (London,
Paris, Borne). Sydney Office: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street; Melbourne Office:
331 Collins Street. Adelaide Office: Steamship Buildings, Currie Street.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“Copabella” : There is a recruity who is
getting on the nerves of the officers’ mess at
an artillery camp down south, and they
mean to make him one of themselves even if
they have to get him gazetted as a brigadier-
general for a start. lie is a young parson
who thought it his duty to abandon cloth, wife
and child and enlist in the ranks. He is an
M.A. and an ex-Professor. Several of his
officers are youngsters he taught at college,
and though Pte. Highbrow touches his hat
and goes meticulously through all the salut-
ing flummery that seems in the army to be
more important than anything else, the
“pups” cannot get over their natural ten-
dency to call him “sir,” to their unutterable
confusion and his glee. But the worst ordeal
is to meet his quizzical blue eye at “school”
as the callow strategists give their lectures
on ballistics and trajectory and other things
they really know no more about than the Bill-
jim who mops out the gun or grooms the
horses. “But, sir,” Highbrow will inter-
pose, oh, so blandly, “that cannot be right.
It is one of the elementary rules that”—
so-and-so. And the officer who knows he
doesn’t know will pray for the floor to open
up and swallow the Professor who does
know. The brass-hats have tried to inveigle
him into the officers’ school, but he isn’t
keen. His college is paying him tbe differ-
ence between his army pay and his profes-
sorial salary, and nothing less than a
colonelcy would attract him financially.
Besides, he is enjoying the situation so.
*■•*■**
“Pctifi” : The sun is on the rampage, too.
And it isn’t any of your petty backyard
squabbles. It is one of the biggest corrob-
orees yet recorded in the history of the old
fireball. The outburst, or sunquake, or
Sheol, or whatever it is, is situated in Sol’s
southern hemisphere, extends over 120,0bd
miles in an east and west direction, varies
in breadth, and covers an area of about
2000 million square miles. Without test-
ing them with the tape I am personally
inclined to accept these figures as substanti
ally accurate. Several “spots” on the orb’s
surface and a slight diminution of light are
some noticeable results of the Big
Row upstairs. Incidentally, if anyone
should meet a stray Aurora mooching
around in the dark just now he
needn’t think it’s a warning of the
Imminent Judgment—Auroras fre-
quently take to the track when the
sun has broken dff diplomatic relations with
itself.
* * * *
Cable advices state that the Huns are now
using acorns as a substitute for coffee-
beans. All’s fare in war.
* * * *
“Three Stripes”: It takes a Madeira Por-
tugee to beat a thirsty Billjim. When a
transport put in at this vine-covered isle
of the sea, certain BiUjims, subtle as the
Old Serpent, cut off the Y.M.C.A. letter-
heads, with their hieroglyphics and triangles,
from the notepaper supplied to them, wrote
a lordly 5 on each, and passed them down
to a native as ss. Commonwealth notes. But
behold a certain other Australian in' whom
there was no guile passed down a genuine
£1 note to the grinning bumboat man, think-
ing to purchase therewith a bottle of wine
costing 4s. He received .the bottle, and, as
change, one genuine bob and three of the
newly-issued ss. notes, the ink hardly yet
dry upon their impudent faces. And, by
way of salt upon his wounds, the wine was
sea-water. So was what had been bought
with the five-shilling “notes,” for that mat-
ter! •
“Brentomnan” on the boys they left
behind them in Egypt:—
Romani is one of the few decisive victories of the
war, and it was mainly the Anzac Mounted Division’s
victory. Prior to that scrap it was the A.M. Divi-
sion that patrolled and screened the outer defences
of the Canal, under circumstances of heat, thirst,
. iron-rationing and night-traveiling that outdid the
worst features of my seven-months’ experience on the
Peninsula. The Division also formed the screen
immediately preceding the Romani battle, which
screen evolved itself into the actual first line of
defence and offence. I was at some pains to get
the official percentages of the casualties in the
Romani operations, and they were A.M. Division,
871 per cent.; British Artillery and Infantry, 10J
per cent.; Yeomanry, 2 per cent. It was Austzalia’s
show.
In the pursuit after Romani iff was the A.M.D.,
supported by a small body of Yeomanry and Im-
perial Camel Corps, that fought the battles of liatia
and Bir-el-Abd and subsequently followed .nd har-
assed the enemy right up to the borders
of Palestine; and in the recent Maghdaba battle
the Division had the" honors practically on
their own, travelling over 30 miles at night and
attacking on foot at dawn —dismounted men,
armed only with rifle and bayonet, charging across
open country and driving out of a heavily-
entrenched position, and then destroying or capturing,
an enemy numbering 2300, equipped with bomb
machine-gun and artillery: the most formidable
defensive weapons procurable. In the Rafa fight the
Division again, supported this time by Australian
Camel Companies and the small composite force of
Yeomanry and Imperial Camel Cavalry, captured by
assault with the bayonet a fortress ringed by six
strong redoubts, connected by intricate trenehworks,
and defended by nearly 3000 resolute infantrymen,
armed also with weapons such as had been used by
their comrades in the Maghdaba fight.
In the career of the Division, the surprising mili-
tary feat has been accomplished, on several occasions,
of dismounted cavalry, armed only with rifle and
bayonet, wresting strongly-entrenched positions from
infantry armed with the most modern defensive im-
plements, especially the terrible hand-grenade, and
then successfully defending the same positions, with-
out a vestige of trenchwork or cover from artillery
or bomb-fire, from the attack of infantry supported
by both horrors.
* • * »
It isn’t often that tlie real bumps the
romantic in just the way it did at Brighton
(Vic.) the other afternoon. The bridal
party had returned from the church, the
wedding breakfast was partly demolished, and
felicitations were in full swing. The pros-
ecuting parson was in the midst of a speech
detailing the charms and advantages of the
married state, when proceedings were
violently interrupted by the sudden and un-
expected arrival of the woman next door,
who rushed in in a dishevelled state, shriek-
ing at the top of her voice, and took cover
under the table. To further illustrate the
charms of the marriage state her husband
came, too. He was brandishing a pair of
hedge clippers, and was only stopped from
doing a homicidal act by the active inter-
vention of the wedding guests. The. parson’s
speech hasn’t been finished to this day.
FEMININE LOGIC.
SEAWEED : “ There’s Dora. She is always
losing money at bridge. Wins one day
and loses the next."
PEARK: “Silly! Why doesn’t she only play
every other afternoon?”
“Centurion”: General Chetwode, who
commanded the cavalry brigade which cov-
ered the British left flank in the immortal
retreat from Mons, is now in command of the
“Desert Column,” consisting mostly of Aus-
tralian Light Horse, and operating in Sinai.
Addressing the force the other day after the
victories at Maghdaba and Rafa he said it
was the first time he had heard of mounted
troops carrying entrenched positions. In
reality, as we told one another in camp
afterwards, history was only repeating itself.
It is on record that the 2nd Dragoons, better
known ns the Scots Greys, clinched Marl-
borough’s victory at Blenheim by carrying
ACCORDING TO RULE.
PRIVATE: “What shall I do with the prisoner, sir?"
OFFICER: “Search him!”
that fortified village on foot and at the
bayonet’s point at the end of the day. True,
the dragoons of those times were specially
armed and trained for dismounted fighting,
and we are not. In the same class was the
winning of a naval engagement which
resulted in the capture of the Dutch fleet by
French cavalry on the Zuyder Zee in the
wars of the French Devolution.
* * * *
“Returned Billjim’” : Re “Tommy Kanga-
roo’s” growl about the way army nurses are
treated in Egypt (B. 8/2/T7). The same
irritating regulations are in full force in
Australia. Should a nursing sister go to the
theatre with an ordinary Billjim, even if he
be her brother, she is classed as having com-
mitted a new sin, and punishment is swift
and unpleasant. It is about time the petty
tyranny of snobbish staff-officers was given
the jolt it is clamoring for, and the man who
swings it will get the warm hand from Bill-
jim and sister Billjimima.
* * * »
From a dugout in France:—
There’s a discussion over the word Anzac which
recalls the ponderous dissertations of those Shak-
speare societies that struggle to find. some deep and
unsuspected meaning- in the most casual remark of
the idol of Avon. There is no doubt whatever
about the origin of the word. Bird wood wanted a
code name for his little lot, and, as he himself has
said, took the initials of the Australian and New
Zealand Army Corps. Now, however, somebody pro-
fesses to discover that there’s an Arabic word
which, more or less corrupted, can be written
“Anzak,” meaning “to cause to jump,” and the
quaint people who are always looking for hidden
meanings and obscure derivations when there are
quite obvious ones, connect this with Australia’s
kangaroo. As a matter of fact, though the people
at home seem to be trying to put the name in the
same class as “that blessed word Mesopotamia,” we
here would be glad to see the thing buried. It
is the cause of endless trouble. No two people
are sure of agreeing as to whom it should be applied
to. The original idea was to give it to the men
who went through Gallipoli; but the Gallipoli fel-
lows know that there have been other hells besides
the Peninsula, and are mostly generous enough to
deprecate any special distinction. In Australia
you seem to be still willing to fly at one another’s
throat when conscription is mentioned. But you
couldn’t be half as sure of making trouble in the
average camp in France or England by introducing
that subject as by throwing Anzac into the ring.
0.A.5.”: More “killing” ideas from
General Headquarters:—
All men will invariably hold a certificate to the
effect that he is not in a verminous condition before
he is allowed to proceed on leave.
I meekly suggest a plan. Fill every shell-
hole with the available disinfectants and
sheep-dips; then change reliefs every night
for a week. The man who remains unfit for
society at the end of that time ought to take
a ticket in Tatt.’s.
“Silas” : The Bulletin is invited to
record the case of a set of St. Kilda (Vic.)
twins, girls of seven, whose extraordinary
resemblance to each other, coupled with a
quaint impishness of temperament, creates
the greatest confusion even in the bosom of
the family. Some two years ago one of the
set was injured by a bicycle, and sustained
a scar over the left eye that served to iden-
tify her for a few months. Then her twin
sister was hit with a stone, and now wears a
scar in the same place and precisely like the
other twin. The astonishing likeness of the
girls is accentuated by their latest accident.
About a week ago one fell off a verandah
and broke the other’s leg.
RESERVED.
“George didn’t propose to me last night, after
all."
“I didn’t think he would."
“Why wot?"
“Oh, well, you see, I accepted him.'"
AUTUMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a spider in the sky,
Spinning frail threads of gossamer
That fall and fall, or streaming fly
When the grey wind goes stealing by
Or stays awhile to play and purr.
To play and purr and gently shake
The glimmering web with velvet paws;
Or, if a fiercer mischief wake,
To growl and leaping swiftly break
The filmy mesh with flashing claws.
And still she weaves a silvery maze
Of filaments that softly stir,
And there through murmurous nights and days
The grey-wind kitten lightly plays
And brushes by with cold wet fur.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


The drink for men. Men who drink whisky wonder
why there are others who don’t. Men who drink
Thorne’s Whisky wonder why there are some who
don’t. If you’re a whisky-drinker and want real
quality-production—the choicest that is distilled in
the famous district of Glenlivet—-you should call for
Thorne’s. The carefully-selected high-grade malts from
which Thorne’s is distilled give it a distinctive flavor
and delightful bouquet.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[2
“PIBRO” BOOT
/inks luxury
with small expense
THE “PIBRO” offers every scrap
of comfort possible without in any
measure sacrificing the style.
OFFERED IN
FINE BOX
CADF.
27/6
PAIR,
POST FREE.
State your size and
have a pair sent on
approval.
BR OTHERS
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
BRISBANE.
SCHWEPPES
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Made exclusively from Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice.
Breathes there a man who never yet has heard,
The Name of Schweppes? The notion is absurd!
By Land or Sea —in North, South East, or West —
Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial is a Household Word.
Omar, thou shouldst be living in these times,
Schweppes’ Rubaiyat to sing in rosy rhymes;
For lo! Thy purple vintage pales before
The golden splendor of Montserrat’s Limes!
SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL COMPETI-
TION PRIZE, Omar-Khayyam, 1910.
Obtainable at all Leading
Storekeepers.
mm **
m,w ■ \:JL<r
.VST
4 kv
*
%
CHWEPPES
df
“G.G.”: Why don’t we play fair? The
Vic. Government intends to give Crown
Lands known as the Kamarooka Forest,
about 25 miles north of Bendigo, to returned
soldiers. Now, a couple of village settle-
ments were established in this forest when
Best was Minister for Lands, and most of
the poor devils were soon starved off through
bad seasons. Those who survived did so by
taking the axe to the timber on their blocks
and selling tlie firewood to the Bendigo
mines. But the returned soldiers w’ill not
be able to do the same, as the Government is
having that poor asset cut and removed.
What cannot be moved easily is being given
to charcoal-burners. So, when the soldier-
farmer is handed his block of Kamarooka
Forest land, he will have an arid, waterless,
treeless block studded with box-stumps and
nothing left to burn the stumps out with.
It will mean slavery to grub them out, though
they can be got rid of by burning if there is
plenty of waste firewood handy. I don’t
know of a meaner scheme than this, and if
the Government isn’t aware of what it is
doing, it should be told—and warned.
For a country claiming to be civilised,
Victoria shows a good deal of original
savagery. The St. John Ambulance Society,
a concern conducting without profit a pri-
vate service which should be the business of
the State, reports that during the last six
months, owing to an inadequate fleet of
vehicles, it lias been necessary to refuse aid
in 35 accidents, while over (SO urgent hospi-
tal cases have had to wait long, dreary hours
for the scarce motor ambulance or slow horse
ditto. Lawyer A. H. Hansford, making an
appeal for a new car or two, suggests that
such a gift “would make a fitting memorial
to some worker in the cause of humanity, or
one who has fought and fallen for us —more
appropriate than a stained window or a
drinking-fountain.” Quite right; but what
has the Vic. Government been doing with
all its loan moneys that it can’t even afford
to pick up the wounded from its streets
and rush them to the hospital?
* * * W
Chief Justice Murray has been trying to
make it clear to the amorous youth of
Adelaide that the crime-of-passion, 'as the
French call it, is not to have any encourage-
ment locally. There wefe two cases at the
recent Criminal Sittings in which a man
had shot his “young woman” with a revolver,
lie hadn’t shot her very much, and, as the
weapon was fired at close quarters while
they were taking a walk together, he pretty
clearly hadn’t meant to shoot her any more
fatally than he did. It was meant as a sort
of amorous argument, in fact. In one case
the lady hinted that she bore no malice, and
was willing to let bygones be bygones. But
the Judge w’as out to discourage the shooting-
habit, and gave. the steadier of 10 years in
each case. It sounds terrific; but the habit
of flourishing firearms calls for a lot of
discouragement.
AS FAR AS HE KNEW.
“Young Frostifoot said he couldn’t make tip
his mind whether to get married or to
go to the war."
“And what did you say?"
“I told him I didn’t know anything about
soldiering, but if he took my advice he’d
enlist."
“Edo” : Kalgoorlie Municipal Council and
others are after Westralia’s Central Board
of Health with a chopper. A new Act pro-
vides that venereal diseases are notifiable
and that no pharmaceutical or unqualified
medico shall attempt to relieve a sufferer.
Goldfield chemists were suspected of break-
ing the law, and the Central Board sent a
badly afflicted man to get evidence. The
sufferer not only travelled between Ferth
AFTER THE SHAVE.
BARBER: “What are you drinking water
fort"
VICTIM: “I’m not drinking it! I leant to
see if my face leaks."
and Kalgoorlie in a railway sleeping-car, but
while on the fields occupied hotel bedrooms
and otherwise pushed around just as if he
were clean and wholesome. It was a mur-
derous way of catching quacks, and the
Board deserves to have a chip or two
knocked off it for taking such a horrible
risk with the public health.
* * * *
“8.N.J.”: I’ve done my bit of fighting,
but if there’s anyone to bo toasted, 1 give
you the men who don’t get drenched with
praise, but quietly do a perilous job—the
skippers and officers of the mercantile marine
commandeered for war services. I remember
heaving a sigh of re-
lief the day we saw
Lemnos on the hori-
zon, as we had left
Alexandria the same
day as the poor old
Southland. We got
through safely, and
though we had nothing
to look forward to
in the trenches my
sympathy went out
to our old Welsh
skipper who, after a
couple of days’ breath-
ing-time in harbor,
must start out again
across the infested
waters. He had been
walking up and down
the haunted Mediter-
ranean almost since
the outbreak of war;
but it hadn’t corroded
his steel nerves. The
night we hit Lemnos
he kept all the troops
who were sleeping on
deck awake singing
“A Perfect Day” to
the jingle of a beloved
piano in his cabin.
Good-luck to him
'wherever he may be!
One of Senator Keating’s stories from the
Front: —
A very dignified English General entered a railway
carriage reserved for officers and found an Australian
Billjim quite at home. “How did you come heah,
sir?” said the big man. “Oh, jus’ come—that’s all,”
said Bill. “Do you know who I am?” demanded the
dignitary. “No —who are you?” “Who am I, sir?
I am General .” The Australian put a big hand
over. “Good enough!” he said. “Shake! We’ve
got to win this war together.”
In a Sydney divorce case the other day
the petitioner stated that she met her hus-
band through answering a “personal” ad.
in a newspaper. „ After their marriage he
developed some, nasty habits, one of them
being to throw her on the floor and tread
on her. Now we know what “view to mat.”
means.
* * * *
“0.L.”: It is not long since Mrs. Mary
Gilmore was advocating- an “intermediate”
nurse —something between the trained nurse,
at two or three guineas a week and board,
and the friend of the family who lends a
hand in an emergency, but is liable to mix
up the medicines and apply the hot bottle
at the wrong time and in the wrong place.
Now an agitation is
afoot in Victoria, with
medical talent behind
it, to get for the coun-
try districts a new
type of nurse at a
guinea a week and
board, two years’ hos-
pital work being re-
garded by many medi-
cal men as an ample
training for general
practice, instead of
the usual four years
and upwards. The
proposal may look like
sweating, but under
such a system far
more skill would be
applied to the bush
patient, since there
would certainly be far
more nurses available,
with less mortality
from preventable
causes, such as im-
proper drugging ai.d
feeding. Health-prac-
tice in Victoria, how-
ever, is all snarled up
in its long, fc rey re-
spectable whiskers and
finds the greatest dif-
ficulty in doing any-
thing that involves
rapid movement, such
ns shoving precedent to one side or giving
tradition an earnest thump 'in the
diaphragm.
“Helersy”: Wily Killjims travelling by
rail to distant Broadmeadows camp usually
hook to near-by North Melbourne, and so
obtain for Id. a ticket which enables them
to pass the ticket collector at the Flinders-
or Spencer-street station gate. There are
so many warriors making for North Mel-
bourne that the booking-clerk keeps a sup-
ply of North Melbourne tickets ready, and
has been known, when simply handed a 10s.
note by a soldier, to pass back 9s. lid.
change and the usual penny ticket. A new
recruit lined up to the window of the book-
ing-office the other day and asked for a
ticket to Broadmeadows. “Has the camp
moved ?” gasped the astonished clerk.
* * * *
A yearly £2OOO is parted up by the Gov-
ernment of Victoria so that the Melbourne
Uni. may continue its research work for the
benefit of humanity. Many of these re-
searches are conducted by means of dogs,
though frogs, mice, guinea-pigs and human
beings also take their turn. Latterly, for
some unexplained reason, the city doggery
has refused to yield up unclaimed Fido and
Towser in the cause of science, consigning
them instead to the gas and turning a deaf
ear to the appeals of the Shop for a quarter-
dozen medium-sized Spots in good order and
condition. It may be that Red Tape has
suddenly acquired a distaste for vivisection ;
but, since the' Shop gets unlimited frogs for
its elementary classes without any protest,
why not dogs for the scientists higher up?
“Dad”: The School Paper, published by
the Vic. Education Department, costs .a good
deal to bring out, the expense being mostly
passed along to Willie’s parents, who have
to buy the journal. It is a monthly; but
this year’s first two issues appeared within
a week of one another, owing to the holidays
crowding up. Departmental red-tape couldn’t
possibly agree that, since there is always an
annual holiday of several weeks, it would be
sensible to drop one issue and be nationally
economical. Then there are the “supplement-
ary. readers,” of. which a new variety is
issued every six months. These are* not
usually of much literary or educative value,
but whatever their contents the pupil is ex-
pected to buy a copy. It is one thing to
bring Willie and Annie up-to-date by put-
ting them on new reading-matter every little
while; but it shouldn’t be done at the ex-
pense of pa and ma under a free-education
system. If there are six Willies and Annies
all going to school from one house, six of
these supplementary readers have actually
to be paid for each half-year. They are not
brought out by the Government Printer,
either, but by a private publisher.
What it’s like in the Sinai Desert: —
A high wind continues from the south-west, and
out on duty this morning I had opportunity of wit-
nessing its influence on sand, and noting the com-
parative rapidity with which the great dunes —the
treacherous landmarks of the desert —yield to its
pressure and adopt their changing configurations.
The wind was blowing with almost full-gale velocity.
The heavier granules rolled along the surface of the
plain in ever-changing, irregular corrugations; the
lighter grains, driven as spindrift flies at sea, surged
against the uplift of the great drive with a peculiar
sibilant hiss, and broke in whirling eddies about its
crest. They hung momentarily in a wild flurry.
Some, caught in the undertow, then sank down to
people the exquisitely contoured oblique surface that
formed the reverse slope; others, rising into the
unobstructed ‘forward drive of the wind, swept on-
ward in the teeth of the gale. On the forward slope,
or face, of the drive the wind struck like some
great sluice, displacing and whirling away tons of
sand with ordered prgeision. The big mass was
writhing, sentient under the force of the gale.
Thrashed in front with a fury of particles, a-creep
in rear with a cascading torrent, surely its shape
was altering and its slow march across the desert
being maintained, glacier-like in certitude, but more
erratic ill movement. On this dune is one of our
advanced observation posts. When the post reported
BLISS CURTAILING.
HERB: “What do you think of daylight
saving?"
FLOOS : “Not much! Takes too long to get
dark."
in two clays later I understood to the full the com-v
ment of its officer when he said, “You would not
know 580 now.” So f watched one phase in the
life-history of a desert dune, marvelled at the
routable immutability of these sandy places, and
studied at first hand the obliterating force of wind.
As I watched at 580 that day 1 thought of other
places and other winds—and especially of Archie
Meston and his romance of the winds of Bellenden
Ker and Bartle Frere.
LENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have been good to-day—
I wore a last year’s frock of Quaker grey,
And stockings mercerised from tip to toe.
I cut out icecream and a picture-show’,
I have not used a single, sinful “Dash!”
“Good works” have taken all my petty cash.
Untouched my cigarettes and chocolates stay....
I have been good to-day.
I have been good to-day 1
My dropped eyes would not meet
The glad gaze of a soldier in the street.
Not once have my lips curved to other lips,
Nor my toes snuggled to the patent tips
Of George’s No. 9’s. Dry ginger-ale
Washed down the midday roll, tasteless and stale.
From Virtue’s path my steps refused to stray....
I have been good to-day.
The moon’s hair all untouched with peroxide
Lifeless and pale droops o’er a listless tide ;
The stars look cross, they may not dance or sing;
Beneath the trees the fairies form no ring ’
And as to-day so will the morrows be,
Till Easter’s sun rags on the wall with glee.
I have been g00d.... but, oh, I was not gay !
It has been dull to day!
N.s.w.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


ON TOUR.


Thefe was once a person who sat in his ow«.
backyard and played with frightful ideas
Till his head swelled suddenly, and he said,
•• i am the bravest, wisest, most cultured
person in the world. lam also horrible and
remorseless. Ih fact, I am an Irresistible
Force.”
bo he pushed down all the neighbors’
fences in his pride
And walked all over the neighbors, and the
neighbors’ houses, and the neighbors’ children,
and the neighbors’ old father and mother,
Till one day he met an Immovable Object
Which persisted in being .Immovable all the
while he was being Irresistible, and
»* T^ESERvhq
pO"R Sof'OE THIMC, I HA~T
HaPPEneo ifN jqn, OR |Cj,s
OK wh€R€ OR OTHER
A SHORT HISTORY OF THE WAR.


BEAUTY WITHOUT ROUGE, CREAM
OR POWDER.
A PARISIAN COMPLEXION SECRET.*
Contrary to the usual belief, the most
beautiful French ladies rarely use rouge or
creams or powders containing bismuth or
caustic alkali, claiming, and with very good
reason, that such preparations not only give
a made-up appearance, but ultimately ruin
the complexion. When asked what they
use to preserve and enhance their beauty
they invariably give the credit to the regular
use of an inexpensive lotion (obtainable of
any sood chemist) prepared by mixing 2oz.
Rose" Water with 2oz. Flowers of Oxzoin
and 1 dram Tincture of Benzoin. Apply
every night and morning with a soft cloth
or sponge. It quickly tones up the dullest
skin and gives a fresh rose-bloom com-
plexion. such as is usually seen only in
youth. Although nothing has yet been found
which completely removes deep wrinkles,
this makes them far less apparent, and a
lady using it regularly is certain never to
have a badly wrinkled face. — Advt.
m
sd
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
x.-Oaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for W oodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's,
fs
/ ).
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ?
tea*iz
LEWIS & WtllT TY MAKERS I
ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester.
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (JIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism,
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO.
SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS `
March birthdays: Philip Fysh, of Hobart,
82 on Ist; High Court Judge Powers, 64,
and Prof. Henry Payne (Melb, Uni.), 46,
on 3rd ; Edward Dyson, 52 on 4th ; J. Rus-
sell French, of the Bank of N. S. Wales,
70 on sth ; Denison Miller (Commonwealth
Bank), 57 on Bth; artist Tom Roberts, 63.
on 9th; Dr. R. T. Baton, Sydney, 61 on
16th ; E. M. Smith. S. Aus. Surveyor-General,
70 on 18th; ex-Senator J. T. Walker, 76
on 20th; Bishop Anderson (Riverina), 58
on 24; Prof. Mitchell (Adel. Uni.), 56,
and novelist Mrs. Campbell Praed, 66, on
27th; Prof. Tucker (Melb. Uni.), 58 on
29th.
THEY DIDN’T MEAN TO DO IT.
"Thanks for all them kind words, sir. Poor
Bill was sich a favorite in the army, too;
even the Germans didn’t mean to kill
’im.”
“How’s that, my good woman?"
“Well, don’t it say in the Casual List that he
was ‘killed by accident’?”
Probably the oldest firm in Melbourne, if
you judge by the working partners’ ages, is
Chambers and Seymour. This concern used
to do a thriving business at the south-west
corner of Collins and Swanston streets.
When the landlord decided to put up a new
building, the ancient pair shifted their pots
and pans around to Flinders-stredt, paving
£lOOO a year rent, and, as it turned out,
greatly improving their turnover. They still
steadily pursue the daily round at the new
stand, though their combined ages total 175.
James Seymour, 90, is a marvel of agility
and can sell a packet of tacks with the best
of ’em. John Chambers is 85. As a young
man he came across to Melbourne from Tas-
mania. His father, an Anglo-Indian, had
a job there helping to keep the importations
of convicts properly filed and accounted for,
and he can sometimes be prevailed on to
talk of his experiences with bushrangers.
Carlo Catani, who, reaching the of 65,
is about to retire from his job of chief-engi-
neer for public works in Vic., leaves a good
record.. He has given a son to civilisation,
works of use and beauty to the State, and
an epigram to the Argus. The present
writer, put down to write a “special” on
parks and street
gardens for that
paper, sought in-
formation from
Catani, who was
an authority.
“Ah,” said he,
with his cour-
teous Italian
smile, “rockeries
are the stone
age of garden-
ing !” Construc-
tion. reclamation
an d improve-
ment projects,
completed b y
him, stud Vic-
toria from the
M urray to
Queenscliff, and
from Portland
to Mallacoota.
II e built
Queen’s Bridge,
made the Buf-
falo Lake, and
chan, g e cl St.
K il d a beach
from a sandy
waste to the.
good thing it is.
BRYANT, of
the Vic. Bar.
From the back of the Front: —
Three Australian churchmen, on - an official tour of
inspection, came one day lately to occupy the guest-
quarters at a French convent. Anglican Archbishop
Riley, of Perth, was one of them ; the others were
Larry Uentoul and Methodist-chaplain Holden, who
has been chapling ever since the war started. At
the convent there was a swarm of children, merry
and bright, all agog with interest in the trio of lioly-
men from a far, splendid country. Being somewhat
stiff in the joints after a long day afield, neither
Methodist nor Presbyterian unbent to any noticeable
extent. It was the Archbishop who got down on his
gay knees among the children, romped with them,
sang their game-songs and gambolled hour after hour
in the kids’ quaint French larks and fooleries ; and
when the party left, in a day or two, to continue its
examination soul-conditions on the Australian
Front, the Archgaiters left behind him more friends
than are usually made in a life’s journey.
Frank Tudor, M.H.R. for Yarra (Vic.)’,
who hopes to be Australia’s Prime Minister
by-and-bye, is a short, pepper-and-salty
citizen with the smooth, round chin of the
well-fed and a complacent and affable
manner. He was a felt-hatter before he was
a politician; and he acquired the habit of
talking in public in a Richmond young men’s
debating society. It was run by the Rev.
F. 11. Browne, who had been a compositor
on the S. M. Herald 40 years or so previ-
ously. When addressing a meeting in the
open air Frank Tudor —he is universally
“Frank”- —usually lias his voice done neatly-
up in gum-drops and keeps his hat on
throughout the proceedings, gradually shift-
ing it to the back of his head until he looks
like one o’ the push offering bananas from a
barrow. In the Yarra electorate the polling
on conscription showed 23,138 Noes to 9825
Yes —the record No for the State.
Maoriland’s senior puisne judge, Dennis-
ton, who has just been given permission to
tack “Sir” in front of plain John, is 71 and
suffers from dyspepsia. Prior to getting on
the track of Costs he worked on a station,
mind d a ledger in the Bank of N. S. Wales
and decorated a stool in the Civil Service.
He was over 30 before he got a wig, but
quickly made up for lost time and 35 years
later climbed on to the Supreme Court
Bench in succession to Johnston. At the
Bar Denniston was a warrior for getting
into collision with the Court, and in the
years of long ago, before the picture shows
arrived, quiet old Dunedin got most of its
amusement from reading about the latest
rumpus between Denniston and Judge Bath-
gate. Still, that didn’t prevent Denniston
getting a verdict when he applied for leave
to marry Bathgate’s daughter. He is a
kindly old man, mellowed greatly by years,
but never able to conquer the vicious habit
of playing chess.
Dean McCarthy, of Melbourne, appointed
R.C. Bishop of Bendigo, was educated in
Paris, and came to Melbourne in ’9l to act
as inspector of R.C. schools. But Arch-
bishop Carr soon scented him out as a finan-
cier, and he became a sort of diocesan Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer. A very quiet little
man, he has no showy qualities whatever,
and Bendigo will be disappointed at first.
But he will make good. At any rate, taken
all round, the R.C’s have not had a more
valuable dean in Australia.
Ernest Newton, now London agent of
the Gippsland co-operating butter-makers,
started in the Vic. Education Department
years ago as a monitor at fl per month.
Later lie taught a bush school in Gippsland.
filling- in his spare time about the local
butter factory. When the manager moved
on, Newton knew so much about the job
that he was appointed to the vacancy. So'on
after, and as a result of his efforts, the co-
operative Gippsland Dairy Produce Co. was
formed, Newton being the chief executive
officer, with headquarters in Melbourne.
Now the co. has decided to personally speak
to London buyers, and has appointed the
former ped. its London agent at a salary of
£lOOO a year.
Anstey, M.H.R., is telling his Brunswick
(Vic.) friends all about his second meeting
during a recent political pilgrimage *in
Westralia. The first meeting was excellent,
Anstey playing a sympathetic idle and re-
ceiving the applause of pit and gallery. But
early on the following day the M.H.R. re-
ceived hints of an organised opposition for
No. 2. The premonitions were verified.
Within 10 minutes skin and whiskers began
to fly. In 15 minutes all lights went out.
“It was my cue,” says Anstey. “I went
straight under the table. The rest, for some
11 minutes, was darkness and racket. Then
there was light. When I came from under
I had no longer any doubt as to the wisdom
of my aetjon. I was the only man on the
platform without a black eye or a lip like a
puff-ball.” (By the way, Anstey, M.H.R.,
represents the side which in connection with
the w.orld’s great mix-up is consistently going
under the table.)
I had three sons, I now hae nane,
I bred them toiling sairly ;
But I wad gie them a’ again
To live and die wi’ Chairlie.
That was how the Scottish mothers of 1745
put it. It was in 1914 that Jim Martin, a
14-year-old Hawthorn (Vic.) boy, reminded
bis mother that, although he was her only
son. she had said that if she had six boys
she would let them all go to the Front. Ilis
father, he also reminded her, had been rejected
on account of nhysical unfitness. The lad
had the physique of 38 years, and his mother
let him go. He joined the 21st Battalion,
and was on board . the Southland when she
was torpedoed. ,He saw service on Gal-
lipoli. where, acting as sniper, he. fought on
though in the grip of fever. At last he was
removed to a hospital ship; but it was too
late —he died on October 25, 1915. He had
left Australia on June 28 of the same year.
Before he enlisted Captain Lyndhurst Giblin
CAPT. L. F.
GIBLIN, late
M.H.A., Tas.,
40th Battalion,
A.I.F.
divided his time
between his
orchard at Cam-
bridge and his
duties as a
member of the
Speck’s Assembly.
Though he was
a very solid man
who refused the
job of Treasurer
in the late Labor
team, he was
noted for bring-
ing forward freak
measures, and
piloted the first
Daylight Saving
Bill that got
through any Aus-
tralian House.
Arthur Vogan, lieut., killed lately at the
Somme, came from Chatswood (N.S.W.).
and after passing through a chemistry
course at Sydney Technical College was
an <analyst at the Sulphide Corporation’s
works at Cockle Creek. Enlisting as a pri-
vate, he. went through a special signalling
school in Melbourne, and scored a dazzling
300 per cent, in all three branches. In
Egypt he became sergeant signaller,-" and
after six months in France got his commis-
sion and was appointed battalion signal and
intelligence officer. He was a son of H. S.
Vogan, divisional engineer on the Ma State
railways.
“S.T.S.” : The late .1. W. Waterhouse was
a painter of whom Adelaide has always had
an unusual opinion. This was simply because
his Emperor Honorius (a slack youth feeding
pigeons while his statesmen have to wait)
was among the mere handful of paintings
with which the State Gallery was begun,
and, before the collection was at all repre-
sentative, Waterhouse got in again with
HISHOP STEPHEN,
who si[?] himself
Reginald Tasmania.
Circe (a single figure in
a mass of blue-green
water). He had the
great trick of appealing
to the public while satis-
fying the critics. Of his
Ulysses and the Sirens
at Melbourne I once
heard the prettiest ex-
planation. The painter
has made the sirens
winged harpies with girl-
faces. Ulysses, of course,
is bound to the mast,
by his own desire,
so that he shall not
throw himself overboard
on hearing their siren-
song. “Look!” said the
1 a dy-w h o-k now s-it-all.
“They’ve taken him cap-
tive and tied him up;
and the angels have come
to save him. Isn’t it
sweet?”
John. Redding Moore, squatter, of Moore-
lauds, Moree (N.S.W.), who died a few days
back, was born in the Western District of
Vic. (32 years ago. lie married Kate Reidy,
of Hobart, niece of that Thomas Francis
Meagher who was “sent out” in the '4o’s for
taking up arms agin the Government in Ire-
land. The same Meagher later on escaped
to America, where he became a general in
the Northern Army and fought in the big
war.
Christopher Maling, N.Z.C. (New Zealand
Cross), who lately passed out in the Cold
Country, lived as lively a life as any Selous
or Buffalo Bill. He was a youthful surveyor
when the fiery little Colonel Whitmore took
him on as leader of his corps of Guides in
the ’6O campaign on tin* cannibal West
Coast, and there weren’t many skirmishes
from the kick-off till the end of 1870 in
which Maling didn’t use his trigger-finger.
One close squeak was in a Ilauhau smelling-
out reconnaisance in the Okehu Gorge, near
Wanganui, when he and another N.Z.C. man,
William Lingard, squatted in the fern while
a hundred or so yelling brown bucks charged
past them. In an ambuscade in the TJrewera
country Maling had his whiskers singed off
him by a close-range volley, and five bullets
made hay of his tunic. Later he carried a
carbine in the Bechuanaland expedition in
xVfrica, surveyed in the Malay States, pro-
spected in Venezuela and Central America,
and orange-planted in Florida.
“Try Fluke’s” send-off :
Ex-police Inspector Gillies, dead at Christchurch
(M.L.), was a broth of a boy in the early ’Bo’s on
the Waikato frontier. In those days he was a plain
bobby who had learned his trade in the Royal Irish
Constabulary. One of his best jobs was the arrest,
after a terrific rough and tumble in a creek bed, of
a wild-whiskered Maori who had scragged a com-
patriot in a country lock-up. Gillies’s one regret
after the fight was over was the scandalous state of
his uniform. What got him promotion, however, was
his part in the arrest of Winiata. Some M.L. papers
have credited him with the actual arrest of that
outlawed brown rough; but they were wrong. At
that time (1883) the Government didn’t wish to
irritate the Kingites by executing warrants beyond
the Waikato border, so the policeman got his strategy
machinery to work. Big Bobby Barlow, a 6ft. 3in.
18-stone half-caste, with a tattooed missus almost
as hefty, rode into Winiata’s kainga at Otorohanga,
pig-buying. The missus had a brace of bottles of
o.p. rum under her voluminous petticoat, and when
these were produced Winiata lapped up the icaipiro
by the pannikin neat. By midnight the wanted
man: —he had tomahawked some pakeha of no conse-
quence six years before —was speechless, blind and
paralytic, and the Barlows packed him like a sack
of spuds across their led horse and carried him to
a frontier blockhouse and into the joyful embrace of
Constable Gillies. Winiata was hanged, Gillies was
made a sergeant and Barlow got £5OO head-money.
Little gooil it did him, though, for the Kingites got
their boss toliunya to put the comether on him good
and hard. The spell worked like billy-oh. In a few
months Barlow', from being a prime athletic fellow,
was reduced to a shadow or thereabouts, and he
went under fully believing that he had been makutu’d
to death..
THE PLACE-HUNTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tocsin sounds (“Oh, dash ’that noise!” the
Voice of Empire groans,
And snarls a message to the Press in short, impati-
ent tones) :
The time is ripe, the nation waits for guidance
from Above —
For some hard-gripping, steady hand strongly to
lead, or shove.
But nothing happens. Down the breeze there drifts
the droning din
Of sullen wrangling: “Here, that’s mine!” and
“Where do I come in ?”
Awake! (Now, what will that do?) Hi! Put on
your boots ! Arise !
True Greatness, deep in Problems, somewhat wearily
replies: .
“Arise? Ah, yes, of course we should! Why not
arise, indeed,
And with a few wcll-chosen words relieve the
country’s need ?
The time is ripe ? Why, yes it is, or will be very
soon.
We’ll make a note of it. Yes. Mind the step.
Good afternoon!”
The call of duty, plain enough to all that care
to hear,
Comes from remote, grim, bloody fields, constant
and clarion-clear ;
Yet, though this writing’s on the wall: “Get work!”
and “Do it Now!”
With self-imposed, new laurels green on each com-
placent brow
The squabbling, scheming company of cunning,
bald old men
Decides that it’s enough to Do a Little Now and
Then.
VICTORIA.
O. L.


rSC
SL
*
*7
A THOROUGHLY dependable grade
of English Cambric ; a varied range
of the most favoured patterns and colorings, a
standard of workmanship in make and finish quite
above the ordinary, and a price below actual value —
all are features of tke Skirts for Men lisTed kere at Four and
Sixpence eack, and obtainable at botk our Headquarters and
Branck Stores.
TWO STYLES ARE AVAILABLE.
FASHION SHIRTS are as illustrated—soft bodies with stiff cuffs
and collar band, and soft dressed centre front pleat.
TOURIST OR GOLF SHIRTS are made with turned-back double
cuffs, and dressed linen neck band.
Stiff dressed Collars to match all patterns are obtainable and cost 1/-
extra. A white linen collar or soft double collar may be worn it
preferred.
ALL ARE STRIPE DESIGNS.
The patterns are varied and range from block stripes at three-
eighth-inch intervals to fine pencil stripes, all of which are in
popular demand. The colorings include Black and Blue Stripes
on a white ground, which lends the most pleasing and effective
contrast.
Price 4/6 eack 3 for 13/
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
rf
Oil *| 110
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods.
480 to 490 GEORGE STREET
and 3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE
SYDNEY.
NEW BRANCH SHOP AT 304 GEORGE STREET (NEAR HUNTER STJ


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE— Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIO US ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
AH enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Bonus to
Net Dividend. Shareholders
Dec., Profit. (12* p.c.) (in Shares). Reserves.
1906.. £56,086
1907. . £40,885 £16,638 £16,900 63,433
1908.. 36,946 18,750 , 15,000 66,629
1909.. 44,074 20,625 16,500 73,578
1910.. 50,374 22,687 18,150 83,115
19] 1. . 55,256 24,956 19,970 93,445
1912.. 56,892 27,452 30,380 92,505
1913.. 49,795 31,250 16,666 94,384
1914.. 41,828 33,334 102,878
1915.. 40,002 33,334 109,546
1916.. 40,019 33,334 116,231
Though the profit isn’t what it was a few
years ago, the co. nevertheless did remark-
ably well in the past 12 months, taking all
the circumstances into account. Under nor-
mal conditions it certainly should have done
a good deal better last year than in the
preceding two years. During 1914 and 1915
large sums invested in the co.’s new King-
street building were unproductive; whereas
in the past year, though portion _ of
the new premises were still unoccupied,
the co. was in its new quarters early
in the year, and the rent of the old
home ceased on March 31. The war and
the consequent high price of paper were
therefore more serious than one would judge
from a look at the profits: approximately,
as compared with 1915, these things
absorbed the savings made by the co.
through being free of rent. Moreover, as
at Dec., 1914, the co. had a stock of paper,
etc., valued at £56,509, all secured no doubt
at pre-war prices. Twelve months later
stock was reduced to £48,200 ; now it is down
to £34,408. Thus in two years the co. has
had the benefit of £22.1,00 of paper, etc.,
bought at pre-war prices. It is doubtful
whether the stock can be safely reduced
much lower; which means that for current
requirements supplies must be got at cur-
rent costs; and as they are from oO to 100
p.c. above pre-war level, shareholders need
not get a shock if the current year shows
poorer nrofits than its predecessors. It
would be very surprising if it did anything
else. As a matter of fact. Australian
papers have fared extraordinarily well com-
pared with those of Britain and the Euro-
pean allies. English journals have long
had their supplies of printing paper limited;
and in Paris, by Government order, the
dailies are down to two pages two days a
week and four pages the other days. If it
hadn’t been that the Allies want our wheat
and wool and metals, thus making vessels
available for cargo this way, we should
probably have had our supplies of European
paner officially reduced too. And all the
time America has been able to reach us
without getting into the war zone; and
Japan paper mills have also come into our
market.
The co., in spite of having spent £185.219
on its new offices and something over £30,000
on new equipment, is still very strong finan-
cially. Apart from premises and plant, its
assets total £162.902 ; and its liabilities are
only £9491. Most of the assets are very
liquid. The capital is £266,670 in £lO
shares. There was a time when these
shares were saleable at over £6O; but that
was an inflated valuation. People had got
into the habit of expecting an annual bonus
distribution of shares saleable at a heavy
premium, and forgot that with every such
distribution the amount required to pay the
124 p.c. dividend increased, leaving less for
distribution otherwise. Every pound pre-
mium paid in excess of about £l4 per share
is actually paid for goodwill; and the good-
will of a newspaper is a very tricky asset.
The number of once-prominent London news-
papers that have wilted and died is proof
enough of that.
* * * #
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
ney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1910.. 79,279 15 p.c. = 63,750 15.529 394,089
June, 1911.. 68,125 15 „ „ 63,750 4,375 398,464
Dec., 1911.. 79,304 15 ~ ~ 63,750 15.554 414,018
June, 1912.. 69,002 15 ~ „ 63,750 5,252 419,270
Deficit.
Reserves transferred to capita], £424,998 5,728
Reserves.
Dec., 1912.. 82,765 10 pc. = 63.750 19,015 13,287
June, 1913.. 58,035-10 „,. 63,750 7,572
“A” & “B” “C”
Shares Shares
10 p.c. 7 p.c.
Dec., 1913.. 74,514 63,750 8778 1,986 9,558
9 p.c.
June, 1914.. 68,288 57,375 8925 1,988 11,646
7 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 52,696 44,625 8925 10,692
6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 53,463 44,625 7650 1,188 11,880
Dec., 1915.. 55,472 44,625 7650 3,197 15,077
June, 1916.. 53,377 44,625 7650 1,102 16,179
Dec., 1916.. 51,525 44,625 7650 15,429
The Gas Act of 1912 was passed primarily
for the purpose of securing a supply of gas at
the cost of production plus certain fixed rates
of dividend on capital plus certain specified
allowances for depreciation. Prior to that
time some of the gas cos. had deceived the
public as to their profits by writing off exces-
sive amounts against depreciation; in other
words, by using large sums of undisclosed
profit to extend their revenue-producing
works. The Act aimed at stopping that
practice—a practice whose existence was
proved by the writing up of assets and the
disclosure of large hidden reserves. But
the Act seems to be defective in this as in
other respects, because it still appears to
be left to the cos. to decide what amount
shall be written off. At any rate, this co.
is risking it. and does exactly what it used
to do, making disclosed profits fairly uniform
by the simple process of writing off varying
amounts. This shows what has been done
during the past three half-years:—
Dec., ’l5. June, ’l6. Dee., ‘l6.
Total revenue . . £435,036 £413,953 £458,494
Working expenditure 282,925 -286,588 310,344
Working profit ..£152,111 £127,365 £148,150
Less net interest . . 36,402 41,988 33,625
Less written off . . 60,237 32,000 63,000
Profit .. .. £55,472 £53,377 £51,525
In the latter half of 1914 £24,000 was writ-
ten off, and the same in the first half of
1915. That it should be necessary in the
latter half of . 1916 to write off 24 times as
much as in the latter half of 1914, and
practically twice as much as in the first
half of 1916 seems highly improbable. If
it isn’t necessary, then the declared profit
isn’t now a much better guide to the true
profit than it was before the 1912 Act was
passed. This question of depreciation
ought to be settled once and for all. If a
co. can write off what it pleases, plainly it
can get back to the position it formerly
occupied; and the mention of a standard
price is a farce.
The first table shows for the past half-
year a dividend at the rate of 7 p.c. on the
“A” and “B” capital, and 6 p.c. on the “C”
capital. “A’s” and “B’s” are limited under
the law to 10 p.c., while the price of gas is
Bs. 6d.; “C’s” to 7 p.c. An increase of price
involves a reduction of dividend. The present
price of gas, fixed by the Necessary Com-
modities Commission, which over-rode the
Gas Act, is 3si. lOd. ;• but the Commission
has now allowed another 34 d. owing
to the increase in the price of coal
due to the recent increase in miners’ wages.
But though the dividend is recommended
and the recommendation adopted, payment
is deferred “as owing to the disturbed con-
ditions consequent upon the war it has been
found inadvisable to issue the new shares
sanctioned in August, 1915, and in order to
maintain the works and a supply of gas to
the public in a state of efficiency certain
capital expenditure has had to be provided
out of revenue.” During the past five half-
years—that is, since the war. started—the
co. has spent a heap of money:—
Dec., 1914 •• ..£278,763
June, 1915 .. - ■ 246,722
Dec., 1915 .. •• 154, <56
June, 1915 . • . • • 100,022
Dec., 1916 .. 89,819
Total .. • • £870,082
The capital account has moved as follows
since June, i 1)1-4 :
June, 14. Dec., 16.
A and B shaves ..£1,275,000 £1,2^5,000
C shares . . . . 255,000 255,000
Debentures . . • • 300,000 800,000
Total .. ..£1,830,000 £2,330,000
At the end of June, ’ll. the co. had £(562.113
of temporary loans at from to o n.c. It
had increased that debt to £1,102,869 by the
middle of 1915. Then it got £700,003 on
the Government resumption of properties;
and that ought to have put the co. in a com-
fortable position. As usual, however, the
Government raised a backstairs loan, and
£335,000 of the purchase money was paid
in debentures, which the co. holds, with the
result that the co. had still £503,530 on tem-
porary loan as at Dec. 31 last. It isn’t
anything like as much as usual; but some of
it costs 51 p.c. now, and is probably uncer-
tain. Anyway, the co. is, by Federal Gov-
ernment authority, substituting for some
of it £300,000 of three-year debentures at
0 p.c. The previous £500,000. which carry
5 p.c., were issued on Jan. 1, 1915, and have
a currency of only five years. This is
hand-to-mouth financing, and seems to sug-
gest that the directors don’t expect very
dear money after the war. In any event,
the dividend should not be long deferred. If
it didn’t suit the co.’s book to cry poor it
probably wouldn’t have been deferred at all.
The Southland Frozen Meat and Pro-
duce Export Co. (Invercargill, M.L.) :
Dividends. Writ-
—A , ten To lie- Re-
Profits. Pvef. Old. Total. Off. serves, -serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1904.. 7,808 5 p.c. 2ip.c. 1697 2000 4,111 21,492
1905.. 5,976 5 „ 24 „ 1767 2000 2,209 23,701
1906. . 10,134 5 „ 4 „ 2005 2000 6,069 29,770
On All Shares.
1907.. 15,571 <U p.c.= 2711 3580 9,280 39,050
1908. . 13,326 6 2714 5889 4,723 43,773
1909.. 13,190 6 ~ ~ 2729 6530 3,931 47,704
1910. .21,101 8 ~ ~ 3641 6057 11.403 69,107
1911.. 22,593 8 ~ ~ 3642 8128 10,823 69,930
£22,761 of reserves transferred to capital 47,169
1912.. 15,444 8 p.c. = 5463 7913 2,068 49,237
1913.. 11,236 8 ~ ~ 5463 8054 —• 46,956
1914.. 12,424 8 ~ ~ 5463 6432 529 47,485
Net.
1915. .-24,382 10 „,, 6828 ? 17,554 65,039
1916. . 28,004 10 ~ ~ 6828 V 16,176 81,215
The I’. & L. account used to put the revenue
this way: “Profit on operations for year,”
so and so. For 1915 it was “Working profits
after providing for depreciation.” For the
past year it has got to: “Profits after mak-
ing provision for repairs and renewals,
depreciation, taxation and contingencies .”
At the end of 1914 “Sundry creditors” were
£2078. The following year the item became
“Sundry creditors and contingent liabili-
ties.” £20.182. Now the total has climbed
up to £40.293. llow much of that is pro-
vision for contingencies this paper doesn’t
know. It is obvious, however, that the war
is giving the directors of this co. a lot of
concern. They don’t know where to stuff
away their profits. For it really doesn’t
look well to show more than 35 or 40 p.c. a
year on the capital, seeing that the money
is made out of supplying food for the army
and the hungry John Bull family.
Running back over the past few years we
get these figures-:-—•
1905. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Capital £45,027 £68,283 £68,283 £68,283
Liabilities . . 29,625 28,001 37,738 64,308
Works .. .. 83,918 127,079 123,743 117,567
Stock . . . . 6,624 12,018 11,691 22,712
Other assets . . 9,579 10,135 43,455 80,354
The liabilities nowadays include, provision
for contingencies ; and, as said already, that
is a convenient stocking in which to drop
a few spare bawbees. But even if the con-
tingencies arise and swamp all the provision
made against them, the position is as
follows: —
1933. 1916.
Liabilities ' . . .. £29,103 £64,308
Assets other than works 21,078 103,066
Excess liabilities . . £8,025
Surplus assets .. £38,758
That is an improvement of £46.783 in what
may be regarded as the cash position in the
three years of war, after paying the dividend
and providing for contingencies; and all on
a capital of £68,283. Meantime the cost
of Maoriland’s little part of the war is being
fastened around the country’s neck in the
shape of a millstone of debt. It is absurd.
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting
Co. (Melbourne) :
Net To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1905.. £4628 8 p.c. = £3612 £lOl6 £21,376
1906.. 1452 6 „ „ 2709 20,119
Dec..
1907.. 624 4 „ „ 1806 18,937
1908.. 1608 ' 4 „ „ 1806 18,739
1909.. 3904 8 ~ 3612 292 19,031
1910.. 7293 10 „ „ 4515 2778 21,809
1911.. 6817 10 „ 4515 2302 24,111
Transferred from Assets Realisation
Account, £-8000 . . . . 32,111
IQI9 ( 7006 10 p.c. - 4515 2491 34,602
wit. . j Transferred to Capital, £33,373. . 1,229
Transferred from Realisation
Account, £17,715 . . . . 18,944
1913.. 6219 8 p.c. = 6282 18,881
1914.. 7795 8 „ „ 6282 1513 20,394
1915.. 6689 8 „ „ 6282 407 20,801
Written off reserves, £2OO . . 20,601
1916.. 4393 7 p.c. = 5497 19,497
Using the war as a pretext, the anti-liquor
people have lately driven the water-
waggon furiously; and it has got further
than ever it reached before. The result is
shown in the reduced dividend of the Carl-
ton and United Breweries, Ltd., which is the
drawing-room name for the Melbourne
brewery combine. This next little table
shows this co.’s receipts from the combine
1910 .. £7239 1914 .. £6804
1911 .. 0514 1915 .. 6061
1912 . . 6514 .1910 . . 3868
1913 . . " 6011
Meantime the co. has slightly increased its
investment in the C. and U. 8., having taken
up £3625 of 7 p.c. pref. shares in 1913. In
addition to its interest in the combine it
doesn’t now own very much. The brewery
premises, which used to stand at about
£40,000, have been written down to less than
half of that and are let on a long lease; the
plant was sold a few r years ago; and the
only other assets remaining are a hotel free-
hold (£26091 and various advances and
sundries, £8144. Against that there are
liabilities totalling £2530. Bents and sun-
dries bring in anything from £lOOO to £l5OO
a year; and exes, (including taxes) are now
up to £B2B. The co. thus depends almost
wholly on the combine; and the future of the
combine is—who knows? The brewing cos.
have been putting the best face possible on
their experience of six o’clock closing; as the
thing has only been adopted in most cases
during the currency of the war, they
naturally don’t want the public to believe
that early closing represents any big
reform. On the best evidence that this
paper can scrape together, however, the
thing represents a very serious cut into
brewery profits. And the next question is,
Where'is it going to end? That considera-
tion puts the brewery investment in a very
different class from that in which it stood
very high a few years ago.
Broken Hike South Silver Mining Co.:
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec. 1909.. £47,980 £40,000 £lOO,OOO £73,618
June 1910.. 42,624 20,000 5,166 91,076
Dec.,’ 1910. . 72,427 60,000 6,081 98,422
June, 1911.. 77,665 60,000 6,087 111,000
Dec. 1911... 128,134 90,000 6,301 143,833
June 1912.. 141,639 120,000 5,684 159,788
Doc., 1912.. 217,776 170,000 6,809 201,755
June, 1913.. 119,930 160,000 5,698 155,993
Dec. 1913.. 177,091 140,000 6,561 187,523
June, 1914.. 146,756 14(3,000 5,597 188,682
Dee 1914.. 95,082 Nil 0,116 277,648
June, 1915.. 130,291 30,000 12,520 371,419
Dec., 1915.. 163,869 90,000 0,900 438,388
June 1916.. 223,110 120,004) 10,294 531,204
Dec., 1916.. 243,348 120,000 10,511 638,041
The profit ■ for the half-year is arrived at
this way • Profit as per I*, and L. account,
£241,804: unexplained addition to Dividend
Equalisation account, £1544. With a mining
co. it very often happens that the profit is
illusory, seeing that more or less of it has
to be put back into the mine to make more
profits that the shareholders never get. In
tliis-case, however, the profit can be almost
counted up in cash. This shows the position
in that respect: —
Dec., ’l4. Dec., ’l5. Dec., ’l6.
Deposits, etc. . . £78,878 £319,651 £531,831
Sundry debtors.. 22,912 184,965 55,416
Products on hand 128,000 96,978 1(6,490
£229,790 £601,594 £763,737
Less liabilities 31,244 247,944 251,803
Surplus ■ ■ £198,546 £353,650 £511,934
Thus in the year the position has improved
by £158,284, notwithstanding the payment of
dividends amounting to £120,000. The
total, £278,284. is greater than the profit
shown in the first table; hut that is ex-
plained by an addition of £20,000 to the
reserves for income tax and royalty and
£18,333 put by for the retirement of deben-
tures. £200,000 of which were issued for the
purchase of this co.’s interest in the Asso-
ciated Smelters. The co.'s share capital is
£163,727, in 200,000 shares, some of them
fully paid to £1 and the others to 10s. <>d.
The surplus of liquid assets over liabilities
(including debentures, and reckoning the
£30.000 put by for income tax, etc., as a
liability) is thus £2 11s. per share. It isnt
many mining cos. that can show figures like
that.
And there is no reason to expect that this
fine fund will be cut into soon to meet cap-
ital expenditure. There is no question in
this case of having to save up yet to look
for another mine. The manager estimates
ore reserves at 3,500,000 tons “without an\
allowance for probable ’ore.” At the present
rate of extraction this gives 11 years’ work.
In the past eight years the mine has given
these results: —
Ore Treated. Divs. Paid.
June, 1909 . . 137,839 tons. £40,000
Dec., 1909 .. 167,265 „ 40,000
June, 1910 .. 132,968 „ 20,000
Dec.. 1910 .. 179,216 „ 60,000
June, 1911 . . 175,044 ~ 60,000
Doc., 1911 .. 18 L,790 „ 90,000
June, 1912 . . 165,532 „ 120,000
Dec., 1912 .. 180,080 „ 170,000
June, 1913 .. 151,742 „ 160,000
Bee., 1913 .. 168,957 „ 140,000
June, 1914 .. ,, 140,000
Dec., 1914 . . 112,750 „ Nil
June, 1915 .. 131,059 „ 30,000
Dec., 1915 . . 163,494 „ 90,000
June, 1916 .. 92,553 „ 120,000
Dec., 1916 .. 157,059 „ 120,000
2,469,678 tons. £1,400,000
That means that dividends actually paid
have amounted to 11s. 6d. per ton of ore;
and 3,500,000 tons at that rate would he
worth £2,012.500, equal to a shade over £lO
per share, spread over 11 years. True, dur-
ing the past eight years a considerable quan-
THE OLD, OLD STORY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If the Labor party was returned the financial posi-
tion would be remodelled and the necessary money
made available for the benefit of the country. Even
if it could not be obtained on the London market, it
would be obtained in other markets. — John Storey,
new leader of the N.S.W. Labor party.
Electors ! Kindly note
We are asking for your vote
In a louder tone than any other party ;
Though our policy is old,
Still, you must admit, it’s bold —
We intend to go a-cadging quick and hearty!
To our colors we are true;
Cheer the brave old XOU !
(Interval for cheers.)
How it gilds our dear Ma State with magic
splendor!
Oh, who’d not be content
To expire for six per cent.
And an Uncle who is willing to befriend her?
I intend —if I'm put in,
And our policy should win—
To search for some kind, opulent relation,
In Kamschatka or Peru,
Who will take our lOU,
Though it means financial circumnavigation!
Our reliable old friend
Has dire business to attend —
It’s a thing that makes us all lament the war so!
But our duty’s plain and clear,
So I’d like to tell you here:
We intend to have an Uncle —only more so!
(Salvoes of applause.)
x.s.w.
MONTY PEET.


WRITE for BOOKLET
setting out the advantages o he
obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
as
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
of
YOUR WILL.
Trust Funds now under the
Company’s control exceed
£.12,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery • in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4^d.
/ 9d. (minimum
1 15/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4
7d. (minimum
11/8, 20 words)
U.5.A...
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. R. CAVK. General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Australian General Electric Company, Went-
worth Avenue, Sydney, corner Queen & Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne, stock a special line of Type F
Form K2O Totally Enclosed Triple Pole Oil Switches,
providing overload and no voltage release, suitable
for bolting to wall or pillar. These switches are
especially adaptable to mine service, and the above
company will be pleased to forward particulars or
quotations to all who desire information on this
subject.— Advt.
“The Roofing of many uses’’ is a name aptly
suited to Adamax Roofing. The 2- or 3-plv roofing
makes an excellent floor covering for offices or veran-
.dahs —also for bathrooms instead of lead. Being
a non-conductor of cold or damp it has been used
to advantage in huts as flooring after the earth has
been well rolled. It resists the ravages of sulphuric
acid, gases, chemical fumes, etc., and is therefore an
excellent roofing or flooring for mine buildings and
an ideal flooring for accumulator rooms or Electric
Installations. Full particulars in a free booklet —
“The Adamax Series.” Send to-day for copy to
William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Perth, Adelaide. — Advt.
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about halj an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
There is absolutely no question about the dura-
bility and economy of Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.
Wood, if kept wet, is practically everlasting. and
there is no inner exposed metal to rust or corrode.
It works out much cheaper, too, than any other
class of pipe, so far as first cost, labor for laying
and freight charges are concerned. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited (II.O.), 57 York-street, Sydney. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. Factories: Lane
Cove, N.S.W., Footscray, Vic., and Port Adelaide,
S.A. — Advt.
*** ' *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought-Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
* * * #
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure " Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 (
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 ®
£783,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. --
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: 10. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA & QUEENSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 48 YOUNG STREET.
Directors:
The Hon. Sir CHARLES Iv. MACKELLAR,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman).
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq. R. M. PITT, Esq.
F. B. S. FALKINER, Esq.
Before making a Will or Settlement of pro-
perty or appointing an Attorney write for book-
let giving the Company's charges and setting
forth the advantages of appointing the Com-
pany, to .TAHN MAIR. Manager.
tity of stored tailings have been sold to the
Zinc Corporation under a co-operative agree-
ment. Hut there are still 852,439 tons of
these to be delivered; 'and practically all the
slimes that have ever been produced and
saved—lsB,B4B tons.
It is only lately that this slimes product
has been re-treated. The lead section of the
plant, working what is known as the selec-
tive flotation process, was started at the
end of the previous half-year ; and the zinc
section is now experimenting on the deleaded
slimes. The lead section handled 13,642 tons
of slimes and recovered 1924 tons of concen-
trates, assaying 58.7 p.c. lead and 44.7 oz.
silver and containing only 9.3 p.c. zinc. This
zinc content is quite satisfactory: actually
the lead concentrates from the ore-concen-
trating mill have often carried more zinc;
and last half-year’s product carried 5.9 p.c.
The recoveries are, moreover, wonderfully
good. Compare the two :
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
Recoveries from ore by
lead mill .. .. 76.2 p.c. 55.8 p.c. 11.3 p.c.
Recoveries from slimes by
selective flotation . . 82.8 ~ 88.8 ~ 10.1 ~
Costs of the new process are not available ;
but, remembering what a bugbear slimes have
always been, the results point to a technical
triumph; and there is no doubt whatever
that a great commercial success as well has
been scored. The 11,71 S tons of residues
from the 13,642 tons of slimes contain 1594
tons of zinc; and of course the co. wants
that, too. In the experiments “good metal-
lurgical work is easily obtained; but the
high calcite content of the slimes renders
the problem of securing good commercial
results one of considerable difficulty.” A
most gratifying feature of the business is
that this splendid success has been wholly
Australian.
* * * #
There is a scheme afoot to give the Uralla
deep lead (N.S.W.) another trial. Previous
attempts have mostly been flooded out: one
or two parties, however, got on to the head-
ings. and washed up from 3 to 16 dwt. The
public has been asked to take up 30 shares
of £ 100. each in a 200-share syndicate: the
vendors collar 100 and 70 are in reserve.
The vendors haven’t done much for their
lot. They have taken up mining leases
covering 100 acres, and have a report by
“a gentleman who has had 40 years’ prac-
tical experience throughout the Common-
wealth and Maoriland”; but whether this
gentleman is also interested as a vendor or
otherwise isn’t disclosed by the prospectus.
Seeing that the vendors propose to take 100
shares out of 130 to be issued they might
reasonably be asked to pay for the opinion
of a consulting-engineer of standing in the
deep-lead business, not only as to the pro-
spects of -the lead but as to whether the
very small amount on which the syndicate
can go to allotment is sufficient to test the
ground. Without it the outsider will cer-
tainly stay outside.
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) produced 435
tons of tin oxide worth £55,292 last year.
At present, however, the output is at the
rate of only 22 tons per month, worth
£2640. and the market has over-hastily con-
cluded that dividends are off for some time
to come.
“Cyanide”: If the N. S. Wales Legisla-
ture were ever to so far descend to earth as
to amend and consolidate the mining laws, it
wouldn’t be amiss if it threw overboard
all the antique and absurd regulations reflat-
ing to mining tenements. In Queensland
the holder of a miner’s right can take up
a homestead varying from a quarter-acre'
in a township to a large area outside, and
so long as he complies with the improvement
and other conditions can do as he likes witli
it, no difficulty being thrown in his way as
to letting or transferring it. Even if the
land is required for mining, bis right to full
value for his improvements is assured. Con-
sequently many well-improved properties
are held under miners’ right, and the
“jumping” of them is practically impossible.
Even if a jumper gets the land, he acquires
no right to the improvements. This wise
principle offers every inducement to the
miner to improve his holding (and, incident-
ally, Australia) as much as possible, and
the result is gratifying. The N. S. Wales
regulations, on the contrary, appear to be
framed to discourage miners from doing
anything to improve their holdings and to
encourage the jumper. Why should a man’s
absence for three months render the area
liable to forfeiture? There are countless
little flats around the goldfields where men
could make self-supporting homes, and
would gladly do so if the title were, as in
Queensland, practically as good as freehold,
so long as the land was not required for
mining purposes. The superior quality of
the Bananaland mining laws as compared
with the heterogeneous mass of complexity
in N. S. Wales is due to the fact that the
Bananaland statutes were consolidated by
a House containing real mining-men repre-
sentatives from Gympie, Charters Towers.
Croydon and Georgetown. If the job had
been entrusted to Brisbane lawyers it
might have been as badly done as the draft-
ing has been in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
“Prospects most encouraging,” John Till
reports to his A 1 directors in Melbourne.
The well-gilded Board has no complaints to
make about this Gaffney’s Creek venture.
Of £23,808 won last half-year £11,472 was
profit; and another £4440 went into the new
tunnel and other development work. The
30,000 shares are paid to only Ss. 3d.; for Geo.
Dickenson got the mine as a job lot for
£2500, and it wasn’t a long fight to reach
profit. Last half-year’s divs. alone were ss.
a share, with enough left over to pay 2s. od.,
and it is mostly in hard cash or war loan.
Now, with a new battery driven by a Pelton
wheel, from 4ft. to sft. of stone running
from 40s. to 100 s. at the three bottom levels
(9, 10 and 11) and a fair amount of stone
still waiting above No. 8, there is plenty to
justify the manager’s verdict on the pros-
pects. Mining and milling costs should not
be much above 225. 6d., and there is a good
margin for profit, development and other
exes, between that and the 525. 6d. which
will probably be averaged for some time, The
new mill is expected to work up to 1500 tons
a month.
When Collins House took over Cock’s Pio-
neer, Eldorado (Vic.), from Jack Dane and
Smith of Wangaratta, the estimate given of
the probable contents of the gutter above
where their old scrapped plant was shelved
was Is. 3d. per cub. yard. This was roughly
the average of the tin and gold got up to
the time the final paddock was opened. From
the time Moline took charge the new plant
has averaged 9.127 d. for gold and 3.276 d.
for tin from 1,170,000 yards, handled. This
is about 24d. a yard less than estimates,
which in a sluicing show is a big shortage.
No. 9 run brought the figures down, as that
only gave 57140 z. gold and 9} tons tin oxide
from 120,000 cub. yds., the disturbing factor
being the neatness with which the old miner
had picked out every decent patch of gold
from the No. 3 floor in the lead. The No. 9
run cleaned up the old paddock. Taking No.
2 paddock as starting with No. 10 run yields
have gone thus:—
Wash, Gold, Tin,
Run: Cub. vds. oz. tons.
No. 10 90,000 1215 15
No. 11 88,000 1198 17A
No. 12 102,000 1331 181
Thus there has been a consistent improve-
ment ; the average of No. 10 was Is. Id. per
cub. yd., that of No. .11 Is. 6]d., and of No.
12 Is. sd. Last half-year costs on the sluic-
ing of 324,000 cub. yds. worked out at nearly
8-Jd. Nos. 10. and 11 runs cost Bfd. and
Bd. per cub. yd. respectively. This included
a provision of l|d. for contingencies, such
as the present creek diversion, and is a fair
wad of an allowance. Taking the average
cost at 84d. and the return at 15d. 'per cub.
yd., the profit on every 100,000 cub. yds.
sluiced would be £2700, so that 3s. per annum
could be paid comfortably on that grade, or
4s. if the costs could be got down to 74d.
and the yields up to Kid. per cub. yd. Gen-
eral-manager Moline forecasts “a consider-
able quantity of ground carrying compar-
able values to the last two runs,” so he
whoops that the outlook is “distinctly more
promising” than at any time since the incep-
tion of the co.
A lot of handy work will have been done
at Victoria Consols, Bendigo, for the Dyason
crowd if the big deal should pass the Federal
Treasurer, as presumably it will. From
180 ft. to 800 ft. every face in the mine went
suddenly L.to hungry quartz so low-grade
that 382 loads gave o-ly 320 z. Most of the .
hunt for gold since then has been at 640 ft.
south on the west leg of the Central Blue
reef. When only 2dwt. stone could be
spotted, the next move was to try for the
shoot on the Ironbark reef, out of which
tributors are keeping a lot ahead of wages.
Also the co. is having a go at the big make
of spurs along the east back of the Ironbark
reef, as well as looking at the Central Blue
spurs near-by. As a centre-country winze
below 800 ft seems to be close to a fresh
saddle, there are half a dozen spots where
something may happen to justify the faith
Bendigo has for years had in the Consols.
With 1,569,000 tons to play with, Mt.
Bischoff has more than a kick left in it. But
the old days of ss. costs have vanished with
the need to poke round the east and west
slopes and to dip into the North Valley allu-
vium. Still from the costs standpoint it is.
not bad going to get through 52,000 tons of
dirt for an average charge of 7s. per
ton, as manager Millen has just done. Nearly
all the “brown” face that built divs. in the
long years when Ferd. Kayser reigned at
the mine has gone, and very little more ore
can come from the old southern working;
so the stand-by in the future, must be the
North Valley. Some of this ground prospects
splendidly, but bulk work has yet to be done.
.Millen in his next report might tell us some-
thing about the results. Last half-year it
took £25,197 of tin to earn a working profit
of £4137, so anything extra from the alluvial
will be heartily welcome to the old Tassy
crowd that pants for a bit more than an
occasional 2s. fid.
■*■*■**
A 3d. dividend from the Papuan Brilliant
and Victoria following a crushing of 257 tons
for an average of £9 12s. 6d. has put a wan
smile on the face of Charters Towers. The
stone came from a cross reef on the Moon-
stone line, and sinking is to be continued to
see if the poor zone the reef has got into gives
place to something more payable. Last year
the Papuan crushed 2000 tons for £13,030
and paid £2400 in dividends. But to out-
siders a low-priced stock that doesn’t sell
freely isn’t attractive.
From Chas. Bowle.v. a director of the
Brisbane Bowen Coal Co.: —
Tub Bulletin last week said that “the Bowen field is
the one example which can be quoted by the Govern-
ment to support the proposition that State action in
prospecting is ahead of Private Enterprise. Govern-
ment drillers opened up and successfully prospected
the Bowen field when Private Enterprise had given
is up as a bad job.” That is hardly fair to Private
Enterprise. Let me state the facts.
Private Enterprise under the name of the Bris-
bane Bowen Coal Co., Ltd., took up a prospecting
area on this field three years ago, and spent a con-
siderable sum of money in boring, proving a large
area of good coal. A shaft was sunk, and three lo'ts
of coal brought to Brisbane at different times at a
cost of £5 per ton and handed over to the Queens-
land Government to test. Three trials were made on
the railway from Brisbane to Toowoomba —a severe
test owing to the grade. They proved that the coal
was good. The directors of the co. then requested
that a line be built from Merinda to the fields, a
distance of a little over 40 miles. A commission
was appointed in December, 19X5, to investigate the
matter, and the evidence produced by the Brisbane
Bowen Coal Co. was so conclusive that it was unani-
mously decided to recommend that the line be built,
which recommendation was adopted by Parliament
and an Act authorising the building of the line was
passed immediately. Last year the Government
decided to have its own coal-mines, which included
an area in the Bowen coalfields, on which it com-
menced boring operations with excellent results.
Private Enterprise thus discovered this field and
risked its capital in prospecting, after which the
Government decided to open a State mine, putting
down bores on its property to prove what had
previously been proved by Private Enterprise.
* * * *
Dividends aggregating £632,883 were paid
by Westralian gold-mining cos. last year.
Gt. Boulder headed the list with £262,500;
then Ivanhoe, £105,000; Edna May,
£77,130; Golden Horseshoe, £75,000; Sons
of Gwalia, £40,625 ; Kalgurli, £30,000 ; Bull-
finch, £11,904 ; Mararoa, £10,000; Edna May
Central, £SB74; South Kalgurli, £6250;
Menzies Consolidated, £5600. Several syndi-
cates, headed by the Fenian at Meekatliarra,
distributed tidy sums; but the total is not
included in the £632,000.
Ingliston Extended (W.A.), a Meeka-
tharra venture which owes some London
and Sydney speculators a little, is stated to
have been optioned by the mine-seeking
Golden Ridge Co. The show owns a fairly
large equipment, and has several levels
opened underground ; but in the past all the
gold taken out of the workings has had to
be put back, with something besides, to keep
things going. Latterly, the co. lost heart and
closed down.
* * * *
The shutters have been put up at the
Cumberland, Norseman (W.A.), after 20
years. Years ago an Adelaide co. prospered
for a time and paid £20,000 in dividends.
Then, as in every other mine on the field,
the reef went wrong at depth. Latterly
tributors have been trying their luck, but
as returns were bad they sold out to a
machinery firm.
Yuanmi (W.A.) obtained £75,697 from
ore treatment last year and an additional
£2168 in royalties from tributors. The
accounts show a surplus of £4849 over
working exes., but deductions for deprecia-
tion, £11,092, outlay on the now abandoned
option at Warriedar, £14,756, and taxes,
£7119, convert this credit into a debit of
£28,118. Ore reserves are estimated at
51.308 tons of 50s. value, an increase of
5746 tons in quantity and 9s. in value com-
pared with the previous year’s figures. 8., M.
& Co. left off being general managers in
August, and their old mine sampler and
superintendent, Leslie Williams, is now in
charge. James Bros., London, who make a
specialty of furnishing annual reports on
mines, are consulting engineers.
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) ran at a
loss during the latter part of last year, but
by spending next to nothing on development
managed to show a profit for January of
nearly £2OOO. All hope of the mine recover-
ing at depth has now been officially aban-
doned, and the best of what is left in the
old workings is being taken out as cheaply
as possible. After that the shutters will be
put up. Meantime development and plant
expenditure is being cut to the bone.
* * * *
Maorilander and ex-Ivalgoorlie mining
attorney Charlie Stafford, who presided at
the Kalgurli meeting, had a little to say
about the mine’s prospects. It could, he
said, be only a matter of months before a
further fall in values would be shown.
There remained in the workings only a
limited quantity of high-grade ore, and on
its exhaustion the co. would have to work
on a grade which treated at full-mill capa-
city would only show a bare margin over
present expenses. Before the end of another
year the Board might have to consider
whether it was worth while working any
longer. To date £1,000.000 had been paid
in dividends, and while regular payments
could not be continued, the directors pro-
posed to distribute from time to time such
amounts as profits permitted.
(“ Wild Cat” continued on page 3J[.)


Under
Royal
Warrant
sd
To H.M.
Kin£>
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
OiariesHeidsie#
Reims
mBBSgSf
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
xosie
v ALLAN & CO.
pty. ltd.
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/1.
Norwegian Cradle Song —
Meditation - - Morel
A Resolve - - Kotlar
Question - - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse * Eugene Blore
ALLAN'S, 261 Collins St.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
S COTS WHIS KY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 26, 1917.
My Dear Arini. —
The facts about the possible return to
England of the vice-regal Stricklands are
all in a simmer at the moment. His Ex.
finishes five years’ hard labor (he can’t
take things quietly) in November next, so
no matter what else may happen as the result
of his “misunderstanding” with PrenUer Hol-
man he has applied for leave of absence.
When the British authorities speak, we’ll
know whether father, the delicate mother
and the nice kindergarten are to pack up
in April or not. One thing is certain. It
isn’t the time for a very sick woman to
travel, and Lady Edeline isn’t likely to face
the sea pi rates yet awhile.
Then comes the question—who next? The
Galways are a good tip; but both are so
popular that may hang on to
them till the official clock strikes the hour for
them to go.
N. S. Wales owns about the tallest gent,
help in blue-and-black livery. lie is the
Hon. Bede Clifford, lately of Tassy, and
before that of Maoriland, where Uncle
George is a pastoral and racing identity.
A.D.C. Clifford —his dad arrived here with
a carpet bag not so long ago on nis way to
collect the title in England—tried his luck
in the trenches. 11 is luck was out. He is
a delicate son of Anak and never picked up
the breadth to match his 6 feet 3 inches —
nor the strength either. So he attends our
sub-royalty for the moment. v
New District Commandant George Lee has
just arrived from Queensland, his last sta-
tion. It is part of the topsy-turviness of
things in general that the new arrival and
his wife must live in a flat, while Victoria
Barracks does everything but take in wash-
ing. I fancy the garrison hospital over-
flows info the old quarters behind the fig-
tree where senior officers used to rule the
roost. The still older headquarters at
Dawes Point may be a steam laundry for
all I know. Anyhow, the goats thereabouts
are not in these days disturbed by orders
to step three paces to the left.
Do you remember Gordon Tidy, who was
one of parson Carr Smith’s curates at St.
James’s some 10 years ago? While subse-
quently an Anglican" priest at Bathurst
Cathedral, lie suddenly ’verted to “Rome” as
a result of the vestments row in Sydney
shortly after Archgaiters Wright’s arrival.
Generally, when you hear that someone has
“gone to Rome” you find he is still living at
the same old address, and only going to a
different church on Sundays; but Tidy
really did go there, and entered the English
college in the Eternal City to prepare for
re-ordination. After a few months he ’verted
back again, and applied to Canterbury for
re-admission to the Anglican ministry. Since
then he has been going through a long pro-
bation as curate in the Cold Country, mostly
in parishes of which ex-Governor Beau-
champ, of birthstains fame, is “patron” ; but
now he has blossomed out as a full English
rector of a country parish down Wiltshire
way. Tidy was one of the most scholarly of
local Anglican clergy, and dabbled in ink as
verse-writer and book reviewer for the dailies
while he was in Sydney. He has set a good
example to most converts, who generally
show off their enthusiasm for their new love
by slinging mud at the old. Tidy refused to
say anything against Anglicanism when he
quitted it; and he has been a similar oyster
with regard to liis experiences in the Roman
fold and his reasons for leaving it.
A link with old Sydney was broken
recently by the death of Henry Herbert
Robey, eldest son of Ralph Mayer Robey,
who was a Legislative Councillor as far
back as 1858 and died in ’64. Father Robey
was an old-time merchant, with stores in
George-street, and he sank a fortune in
trying to establish the sugar-refinery busi-
ness. George Dibbs married a daughter;
and that’s how these two old and now-
numerous houses became related.
Killed lately, Captain F. G. C. Ashmead-
Bartlett, of the Bedford Regiment, second
son of the late Sir Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett,
M.P., and younger brother of the war-
correspondent who gave the Anzacs their
first great boost. Born in ’B3, he served
in S’Africa and retired, only to join again
in this scrap. In March, 1915, he stopped
a bad one at Neuve Chapelle and was the
owner of a practically helpless left arm
when lie returned to duty, to get his final
wound.
Writing to a Sydney relative Mrs. Martin
Donohue reported that her war-correspond-
ent hadn’t been heard of for two months
and Mrs. Martin was in a fever of anxiety.
He was in lioumania during October; then
there was silence, which was still unbroken
at the end of December. The Sydney
journalist, after 10 years or so. of following
the drum with a writing-pad, is one of the
most experienced news-trackers in Europe,
and like Brer Rabbit he may be only lying
low and saying miffin' in some hollow-log
in Roumania.
One of St. Vincent's pretty nightingales
—she was in the recent pierrette show is
going to give up bandages for vacuum
cleaners. The lucky man is Percy Rogers,
of Gloncurry (Q.), and his best girl is
Nurse Muriel Power. She is a daughter of
a late Gvrupie M.L.C. and chairman of the
Q.T.C. Auntie Mrs. Virgil Power has been
in Sydney with her girls; and that’s how
the news got about.
Valentine Blomfield, of Exeter, left the
other day for Ivalgoorlie, where Bishop Gold-
ing-Bird, who used to be Dean of Newcastle,
is going to ordain him as a deacon. Thirty-
ddd years ago his father was the “high
church” rector of All Saints’, Parramatta—
“the church over the water,” as they call it
up there —and his candles and vestments
made Sleepy Hollow see Popes in its dreams.
The two sons, Val and Harold, both took up
civil-engineering, but each of them has done
a bit of “lay reading” pretty regularly.
Harold is now on one of the top rungs of
the Harbors and Rivers branch. Val was foy
years an engineer on the roads and bridges
side of Public Works, but retired to lead the
simple life at Exeter, up beyond Moss Vale.
One of his hobbies has been the local secre-
taryship of a society to unite the Greek and
Anglican Churches —a scheme which finds
much favor since the war broke out and
made Holy Russia our ally. Now, well into
the ’so’s, he is going to button on a clerical
collar and learn how to be a curate in the
spinifex back of Ivalgoorlie.
An Australian —perhaps the first—to
acquire an Iron Cross is Lieut. M. F. Lox-
ton, a son of Loxton, K.C., of our Bar; but
as the bit of ironwork was captured from an
officer who fought on the Hun side, probably
Kaiser Willie won’t have the fact recorded
on the Potsdam register. Loxton, junior, by
the way, is attached to the R.F.A., and has
been twice mentioned in dispatches.
For bravery in the muddy field of France,
Herbert Frazer Watson, Lt., youngest son
of the Glanworth Watsons, has had the Mili-
tary Cross hooked on to his khaki tunic. The
newly-decorated sub. owns an address on the
land at Longreach, Bananaland, A brother,
Dr. Fred Watson, puts in his time writing a
history of this continent for posterity to
delve into.
Still another Australian to attach himself
to the Military Cross. Tom McMahon, a
junior grandson of “McMahon’s Bond,” who
wears a couple of stars in the Irish Guards,
did something worth talking about a little
while back, when all his neighbors were
blown up and he alone survived. Two bro-
thers (the family have been absentees for
sundry years) are subalterns in Irish regi-
ments.
Death has claimed a notable figure of the
early ’3o’s in Mrs. Chas. Boucicault, who
passed away in London lately. Mrs. Bouci-
cault was one of the three Clark sisters who
tvere known long ago in Sydney as the Three
Graces. Born in old Avoca, Darling Point,
one of them, at least, was married in St.
Mark’s. She became Mrs. Horsley. Another
sister, who even after all these years retains
much of her grace, is Mrs. Ilort Brown, of
Picton. Mrs. Boucicault’s husband edited a
Rockhampton paper for years, and her eldest
son fell fighting last year.
Ruth Darbyshire, who has been lately
matron of the big military hospital in what
was once St. Mark’s College, Chelsea, and
who in peaceful days was nursing-chief at
St. Mary’s, Paddington, has been chosen as
Inspectress of Military Hospitals in India.
She has been staying with the Viceroy and
Lady Chelmsford at the lodge in Delhi.
Management runs in the Darbyshire family.
Brother Taylor looks after the .T. C. William-
son interests in Melbourne, and I have it on
the very best authority that he has a small
daughter who can already manage the whole
family.
All in satin and lace, at the Cathedral of
Manila (in the Philippines), on 4th January,
Lola Playfair, eldest daughter of the
North Sydney Playfairs, became the Ameri-
can wife of Lieut. J. P. Vachon, of Wont-
row Wilson’s army. A Playfair cousin, now
Mrs. Hen. B. McMurdo, supported the bride
as a matron of honor, while her surgeon
captain husband handed the Sydney girl over
for keeps.
Premonitory wedding, on Christmas Day,
at North Sydney :
Hughes—Cook.— T. J. Hughes, late of LUangam-
mavch Wells, Wales, to Lilian Elizabeth Cook, of
Norwich and Birmingham, England.
Graythwaite’s pet V.A.D., Enid Garton,
walked up St. Philip’s aisle with Tom
Lawrie the otlier day. Of course he wears
khaki. Before setting- forth to interview
the enemy, Tom, who is a li.eut. in the Engi-
neers. camps mostly at the T. and G. flats.
The V.A.D.’s gave the bride a set of tea-
spoons to furnish the 4-o'clock tray.
Sydney presswomen, with Mrs. Fother-
inghame as president, are rounding up
stragglers and selling tickets for their show
at the Repertory on March 14. Proceeds
go to furnish a soldier’s cot at French’s
Forest.
Ex-Senator Staniforth Smith, second in
command of our Papuan territory, is spend-
ing his furlough at the war. He got into the
Westralian brand of khaki a year or more
ago; but last mail announced him a twin-
starred officer in an English mounted section,
ready for the big move forward in the
Spring, tra-la.
Notice that our favorite pianist Lawrence
Godfrey Smith, now doing something for the
war on the other side, is the father of a
bouncing boy?
Here is big
Donald Mackinnon,
Director-General of
the Recruiting cam-
paign, and an in-
curable optimist.
He refuses to be-,
lieve that Austra-
lians are too tired
to reinforce their
mates at the Front.
Wi t h Captain
Coates as organis-
ing secretary, he
rolls up his sleeves
to the pile of corres-
pondence that lies
in wait for him in
a top storey of the
Commonwealth
Bank.
The Chisholm sisters—l fancy there are
five pegging away at Sister Susie’s chores —
include a spinning expert named Nancy.
She is going to “demonstrate” in Adelaide
directly, and stays at Government House to
do it.
What' an untidy beast is the lethargic
camel! At the Light Horse sports at
Menangle the other afternoon he snuffled and
dribbled and foamed over his front teeth like
a billabong in flood after a drought. Light-
horsemen Wiseman and Ducker performed
astounding feats from their uneasy perch on
the hump. But the camp’s Arabic couldn’t
have been up to desert standard, for various
possible winners in the camel race suddenly
sat down or tried to get into the tail of the
procession, and emitted fearful noises instead
of trying to catch the judge’s eye. Menangle
racecourse, where the sports were held (Col.
Bob Lenehan in command), is a pleasant
place of luscious green vegetation after the
recent rains. But the visitors from Sydney
arrived with purple countenances and infuri-
ated language. Why? Oh, the usual rail-
way muddle which landed long-suffering trav-
ellers about an hour and a half too late to
see the best of the fun !
The Win-the-War ladies were as the sands
at Manly on Feb. 23, and nobody knew what
it was all about. Moore-street was the hub
of the button-trade. They took your name
and address —if you felt like parting with it
—and sold you sixpenn’th of colored cellu-
loid to commemorate the meeting. If the
right way to win the war is to knock off
work and waste a few thousands on
useless gew-gaws, we did something towards
victory on Friday. I watched one weary-
looking damsel join the League. “I’m a
V.A.D. and goodness knows what besides,”
she said, “so I haven’t much time, but —if
it encourages others ?” she sighed and
passed over sixpence. That sixpence—one
of Lloyd George’s “silver bullets” —was
wasted if ever sixpence was.
Sydney’s most ancient charity, the Benevo-
lent Society, had its annual meeting one
warm afternoon last week. The State Gover-
nor presided. According to the figures, the
Benevolent keeps well afloat, in spite of war
diversions. But president Neville Mayman
broke it gently that a new pavilion in one of
the hospitals it backs up is a 1917 necessity.
So you’ll probably hear the voice of the
charmer presently.
News of another war-wedding comes from
Maoriland. Geraldine Mills, Dunedin-born,
said she would to Lieut. Charles Curzon,
R.N.R., whose parents are housed at Water-
mouth Castle, Ilfracombe, Devon. “Jimmie”
Mills, who was at the wheel of the U.S.S.
Co. for so long, has only the one daughter
of his second marriage, and her engagement
to a Battenberg princeling has often been
contradicted. They were friends, but the
royal health wasn’t worth much insurance.
She owns lots of looks and ah only brother
in a Scotch regiment. The Mills dame, who
lives at Princes Gate, London, was one of
the seven handsome Fosbery sisters of
Christchurch (M.L.).
“There’s a countryman of yours with the
last lot,” the doctor told a Bulletin boy
who is in dock in a military hospital in
Surrey. When they promoted the Bulletin
boy to a Bath chair he went in search of his
countryman, and found "the loneliest man
on earth.” He was an Australian black
brother with “trench feet,” both limbs in so
dreadful a state that a double amputation
was inevitable. That was the news a week
or so before Christmas. The day after
Christmas there was a P.S.: "I told you of
my abo. friend. When I wheeled out to look
him up yesterday he was missing. Poor,
lonely old Binghi had developed pneumonia,
and there is no hope for him at all.” Good
hunting, black brother 1 Good hunting and
plenty ’bacca!
“But it has been a beautiful Christmas,”
the same Billjim writes. "The more sloppy,
foggy and miserable it is the more it is what
Christmas ought to be. This morning (Box-
ing Day) there was a glorious sunrise. The
sky was, as a matter of fact, slightly pink.
Everyone went mad about it. I told them
I’d seen it, too; but I thought it was a street
lamp left burning overnight.”
Not all the dug-outs 'that Billjim is get-
ting a bit of winter shelter in just behind
the front lines were made by Hans and
Fritz, though a lot of them were. One little
party belonging to a heavy siege battery
has taken up its quarters in a family vault
which isn’t much the worse for war-wear.
"It was intended to hold eight,” says my
sergeant friend, “but the war started too
soon, and only two had arrived; so there
are six of us making ourselves comfortable
in the vacant allotments. It was a bit grue-
some at the start; but now we don’t find
the company a bit disagreeable.”
The Patriotic Players open at the Reper-
tory on March 3. For five nights only they
give that well-preserved chestnut, “Mrs.
Dane’s Defence,” in aid of various Comforts
Funds and the Nurse Cavell Home.
Several “specials” give the glad-eye at
the “Eddie” show at the Palace; but the
gladdest eye of all is given by the clothing.
There is an electric effect in the colors, from
the horizontal striped skirts of the extra
girls to the first flame frills of Lilian
Tucker’s frock. The last gets a vivid con-
trast from a glorified sky-line. Emily Fitz-
roy’s cute-cut tailored champagne cloth
claims a sigh of envy. The extra ladies’ limbs
are large—or is it Lupino’s No. 3 shoes that
make comparison unwelcome V Mrs. Daisy
Itevette Higginson romps through her scene,
a lure to war brides in her wedding get-up
and the newest wing-necked veil. One chess-
board creation on a dainty damsel holds the
gaze. Somehow, in spite of the weather, or
perhaps because of it, there is more dress
than woman for a change.
Rowland Walker, who wears a lieut.'s
kit, is to wed a North Adelaide girl—Eileen
Todd, only daughter of Mrs. A. E. Mason.
The sojer wore his first knickerbockers in
Bega, where the fatted cream comes from.
The Women’s “Horty” Society is now
holding a series of garden lectures. Inten-
sive culture —I suppose it includes the right
way to dispose of snails and other hungry
visitors —is the text. Hon. sec. Miss Brace
has given out the word at Waitara and
Normanhurst in the first two rural
addresses. President Mrs. Bertram Stevens
is now starting a campaign in the Wah-
roonga area to interest youngsters in spade
work. She is also on the trail of a tea-tent
at the forthcoming Easter Show.
In the end most people die because they
lose interest in living ; their * eyes are fixed
ahead and they can’t be bothered with the
affairs of the world. But on a dangerous
little outbreak of fire at the Petersham
Home of Peace last week the 16 inmates
forgot all about the shadowy borderland and
took a very keen interest in the present. When,
however, the prompt firemen got to work
and the danger was over and the news cir-
culated that the inmates’ lot had been made
a little duller- by the destruction of their
wheeled chairs, they sighed and resumed the
business of dying.
Rosemary Rees, of Napier (M.L.), who
was here with the Alan Hamilton and Her-
bert Fleming cos., is doing unique war work
in the Fog. A committee guided by Lady
Ilardwicke, wife of Bart. Bob Hardwicke, of
Auckland, promotes entertainments for the
M.L. soldiers, and actress Rosemary Rees is
in charge. They run the scenery and show
round all the M.L. camps and give a good
account of themselves.
The calf at 50 years may look as young as
when it was veal. A Sydney, dame has had
a maid for quarter of a century. On her
evenings-out this maid wears smart short
skirts. A gay dog who admired veal pur-
sued her through the fag-end of the saved
daylight murmuring flattering comment on
what showed below the skirts. When she
reached a street lamp the damsel turned
severely upon the young Juan, who raised
his hat and gasping, “Good-night, mother /”
disappeared in dusk and disillusion.
Yours affectionately, VANDORIAN.


A Bigger Car
Model 85
\
with More Power
Here is a big, roomy, powerful
four cylinder Overland that is the
last word in motor car construction
and efficiency.
It is luxuriously appointed and
completely equipped.
It is finished in a rich brown
with hood and hood cover to match.
All the conveniences and
comforts that appeal to you in the
highest priced car are found in this
newest Overland yet it costs you
considerably less money.
Point for point, it is the
greatest motor car value on the
market.
A long wheelbase of 112 inches,
cantilever rear springs and 4 inch
tyres assure the greatest ease in
riding.
You get solid comfort and in
addition all the speed and power
that you will ever require. For this
car is equipped with the same big
powerful four cylinder en bloc engine
that has made the Overland famous
throughout the world.
Compare the specifications of
this car with those of other cars in
its price class and form your own
opinion as to its value.
Then ask us for a demonstration
and let us prove to you that you
made no mistake in selecting the
Overland.
All Overland Cars are equipped with High-Tension Magneto Ignition.
Model 84-B
The Willys-Knight five passenger touring car, 114 inch wheelbase, Knight type engine, £475.
%
Model 85-
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Reguest from—
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Midbourne.
MURRAY A UNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willys-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A,


FARMER'S NEW EXCLUSIVE
FOOTWEAR MODELS.
fs
We Pay Carriage on
all Men’s Goods to any
part of Australia.
We illustrate here our new, gentlemen’s last, which
combines comfort with the new long appearance at
present in vogue.
URB4.—Smart Patent Colt Boots, with
dull kid tops, light in weight, and perfect in
design and finish. PRICE 32/6
Other lines stocked in this model are as follow: •
URBS. —Finest French Glace Kid Lace
Boots; kid-lined throughout. Also stocked
in Box Calf. PRICE 35/-
URB6.—Tan Willow Calf also.
PRICE 35/-
URB7. —Glace Kid Lace Shoes, very smart,
comfortable and cool. PRICE.... ... 30/-
Men’s Footwear, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Farmer’s
Pitt, Market
& George Sts.
.Sydney.
FOR INDIGESTION DRINK HOT
WATER.
A SPECIALIST’S ADVICE.
“If dyspeptics, sufferers from flatulence,
indigestion, acidity, gastric catarrh, etc.,
would only take half a teaspoonful of
bisurated magnesia in half a glass of hot
water immediately after eating, they would
soon forget that they were ever afflicted
with stomach trouble, and doctors would
have to look elsewhere for patients.”. In
explanation of these words the specialist
stated that most forms of stomach trouble
were due to acidity and fermentation, of
the food contents combined with insufficient
blood supply to the stomach. Hot water
increases the blood supply, and bisurated
magnesia instantly neutralises the acid and
stops food fermentation; the combination of
the two, therefore, being extremely efficient
and infinitely preferable to the use of arti-
ficial digestives, stimulants and medicines.
It should be mentioned though that the form
of magnesia referred to is quite distinct
from the sulphates, citrates, oxides, and to
prevent confusion you should ask the
chemist very distinctly for bisurated mag-
nesia.— Advt.
BUCKLEY’S
THE GREAT
AUSTRALIAN
Men’s Wear
House.
Repeat Orders from all over Australia
come to us again and again from men
who have once had a transaction with
ns,
BECAUSE THEY KNOW THE
GOODS RECEIVED ARE
RELIABLE IN EVERY PAR-
TICULAR AND THE VALUES
ARE THE VERY BEST.
A renowned Buckley’s Shirt, made in
our own Workrooms from High-grade
Shirtings, whose fit is guaranteed.
82221.—1 n Oxford or Zephyr Shirt-
ings, with Gauntlet or Starched Cuffs
comfortable and well cut.... 6/6 ea.
Or in Striped Ceylons, at 8/6, 12/6.
White Oxford Tennis Shirts, 6/6 ea.
NO BETTER VALUE ANYWHERE.
ter
COLLARS.
Up to date, Well-cut
Shapes, Perfect Fit-
ting. Can’t be beaten
for value.
82222. —1/- ea., or
11/6 per doz.
TIES.
A Big Variety of the
Smartest Fancy Silk.
Wide-end Ties. The
Best Values in the
Southern Hemisphere,
82223. —At 2/6 ea.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Get the Best Men’s Wear
at
Lowest Prices—Always.
BUCKLEY S NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, February 26, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
On Thursday night “His Excellency the
Consul-General for Russia” invited all
hands (the well-manicured ones) to a lec-
ture on the Russian language, and all hands
turned up and found David Hennessy and
his Gaud Mayoral spectacles in the chair. He
had a right to be there, too, because he had
lent the large upper council chamber of his
own Town Hall for the talk. Heaps of
agitated Best Dressers were swirling about
the plush carpets of the upper corridors ask-
ing “Whaie isn’t there room for us?” The
poor wretch who was at the door had to
tell them the “heads” didn’t expect there
would be such a rush of social leaders. The
latest arrivals found the second-latest de-
jectedly fanning themselves in the down-
stairs lounge. These remarked acidly, “No
good going up—it’s packed!”
Lieut.-Colonel Farr—the secretary of the
new ’ Russo-Australian Bureau, wandered
about with a look compounded of equal
parts of remorse and triumph. “We never
expected so many invitations to reach
home,” he murmured. “D’Abaza • will re-
peat his lecture in Hawthorn and Toorak
and other centres.” That helped to soothe
them. In the packed room they couldn’t
enter, Consul D’Abaza, with a scarlet and ,
white gardenia buttonhole in his black even-
ing coat, almost developed a smile on his
serious face. He talked fondly of the Rus-
sian noun in exquisite English, and drew
weird Russian letters on two big black-
boards. “If you once learn the alphabet,”
said he encouragingly, “you can never mis-
spell Russian” —which was more than he
could concede to any other language. His
people, it seems, however, have bins
full of extra letters. “Three of them are
never used,” murmured the lecturer; “two
have no sound of their own, and three are
never sounded.” The audience breathed
hard, and began to feel blank about that
beloved ARC with a backyard full of lumber.
The new State Commandant, General
Sellheim, was on parade with a very large
fair A.D.C. Colonel Cuscaden was almost
hidden behind a blackboard, but Justice
Isaacs had a point of vantage between two.
The Hennessy dame sat with Mrs. Sellheim
and a flock of other women in the front row.
Merchant Henry Berry had a covey of his
womenkind around him. The Forrest dame
was just visible over a sea of heads. Most
of the air was shut out by eager crowds in
the doorways. Several people were heard
to ask “How do you do?” in Russian, and then
crayfish back into plain English. Sassiety
has rushed this Russian language idea. It
has done French to death, German is taboo
and Japanese offers little inducement.
G.-G. Munro Ferguson found an old friend
in Mrs. Robert Bell. He knew her in Scot-
land when he was a boy and she a flapper at
school. The G.-G. often walks out on Sun-
days to see the dear old lady, who delights
his Scotch ear with “Mary of Argyll,”
“Afton Water” and “Loch Lomond” on the
piano. Mrs. Bell is the mother of Mrs.
Jack Macarthur Onslow, of Scone, on your
side.
The catmittee of the Alexandra Club has
been busy hunting up pedigrees and birth
certificates of would-be members, of whom
there are tramloads. A crowd of members
and lots of subs, are quite useful in war
time; but the Alexandra really can’t afford
to admit any girl who doesn’t belong to the
local peerage.
The sacred Austral Salon is feeling feali-
fully busy. The 27 th report lias just
awakened the echoes, and the committee, is
arranging a meeting for next week at which
the old Salon’s constitution will be altered.
I think it is part of the Win-the-War move-
ment.
Maudie Gregory, of South Yarra, who
acted as offsider to Marie Hall, the Bendigo
heiress, chatters interestingly about her
travels through the U.S. and England. She
has been relieved of chaperoning duties
through Marie’s marriage to young Shepard,
brother of actress Mabel Russell, a well-
known London star. New York hotels and
American private houses she thinks un-
equalled, whilst London she often found like
a slice of Melbourne. She sighted many
Australians, including Mrs. Nevin Tait
(Bess Norris, the miniaturist), Mrs. Ham-
mond Clegg (whose daughter Dollie married
Captain Hall, of the gilt-edged Tom Hall
family), and the popular R. G. Caseys,
whose son Dermot, fresh from Sandhurst,
has shot up into a youth one fathom high.
Eleanor Purves, daughter of the late J.L., is
doing good work amongst germs in a doctor’s
laboratory, whilst her widowed sister, Mrs.
Beatrice Black, has gone dressmaking in
Conduit-street. Young Foster Routledge,
who married Mildred Manifold, has done
well in the Flying Corps, and is now a
major.
Captain William Stawell, one of the latest
warriors to have the Military Cross pinned
on his clothes, is a grandson of an ex-Chief
Justice of ours. George Stawell, Ins father,
adorns the I.C.S. in Bengal, while his uncle,
Colonel Dick, gained great kudos for his
achievements among the wounded ones at
Mudros, where his bedside manner gave tre-
mendous satisfaction.
The Norman Brookes family has decided
to stay in Melbourne for a space. What
with submarines and raiders and passports,
travelling with three baby girls involves too
much excitement altogether. So Madame has
at last yielded to her mother’s gentle persua-
sion and taken a house close enough to the
paternal gum-tree for “granny” to escort the
children to feed the swans in the Botanical
Gardens on Saturday afternoons.
Edward Miller’s expected knighthood must
have fallen on the floor and got broken when
the others were served out. So careless ot
“Wally”—someone ought to tell him about
it!
Two representatives of the flour trade in
the persons of Tommy Grantham, of Brun-
ton and Co., and Victor Kimpton, of Kimp-
ton and Sons, have gone to France to see
that the Kaiser’s cake really is dough. They
are both husky youths and have fair excuses
for staying at home. Mrs. Grantham was
Dorothy McCaughey, a noted good-looker,
whilst Mrs. Kimpton is the pretty sister of
solicitor Hector MacDonald.
On Win-the-War day the Stock Exchange
drove back the Prussian Guard with tremen-
'dous slaughter. Grey-heads and all, the
brokers marched through the city headed by a
fine band and bearing banners with encourag-
ing mottoes. They were carefully marshalled
beforehand inside the building, so that the
movie-man-in-waiting could record the his-
toric event. "But the effort to rout the enemy
nearly cost some of the younger members
their lunch for a day. They “made up” to
represent diggers, and consequently missed
their usual tucker. Thank Heaven! the situa-
tion was saved later on by waiters from the
’Change Club, who dashed in and out with
trays and dishes and ice-buckets. But it was
a close thing !
Anxious to see what effect a few sabre-
cuts of Saxon speech will have on the
Kaiser, Robert Strachan Wallace, Professor
of English Language and Literature at our
Uni., walked into the Town Hall recruiting
depot one day last week and enlisted, with-
out making a fuss about it. He wanted to
join up while on a recent trip to England ;
but there were difficulties in the way. The
boyish-faced young Scot was not long back,
though, before he overcame them and lined up
as a simple matter of duty. He is 34 years of
ago, of good physique, and was once a lieu-
tenant in a British territorial regiment. A
brother is wearing the maple leaf with the
Canuck troops in France.
„At a Town Hall tea-drinking on Friday
morning the Forrest dame confided to about
half a hundred of her best pals that she had
booked for the voyage to England with her
husband. “For goodness’ sake, don’t tell
anyone!” she whispered. “You know, if
the others who couldn’t get passports hear
of it !”
It was a small gathering of staid dames
that attended an At Home in the Indepen-
dent Hall on Thursday night to welcome
the new supervisor of the Free Kindergarten
Union of Victoria. There were scones and
tea and coffee, with intermittent opportuni-
ties for gossip as minor attractions. Madame
President —a well-known social figure—
was extolling the work performed in the
interests of the .parentally neglected young-
sters, when she got this off: “I can assure ’
you that the whole of our efforts, from those
.of the most insignificant voluntary helper
right up to those of the president, are of
the utmost value.” Then somebody in the
front row sniffed, and another lady shook
herself and her golden fetters in a most
indignant way. A mere slip, of course, but
the poor woman resumed her chair wearing
the .look of one who has fallen three miles.
Adelaide’s assortment: —
“Cattle King” Kidman is adding to the list of his
holdings and extending his operations as the result of
a visit to Tasmania. If I didn’t know better I’d be
inclined to think, judging from his praises of the
scenery, that that was the inducement.
j. F. Bailey is due here from Queensland in about
six weeks, to take up his job as director at the
Botanical Gardens. The retiring Holtzes’ home will
be at Kangaroo Island, where they have staked out
a claim at American River. Local tradition says
that in that favored spot you can live for ever, so if
you want to be on deck when the war ends you
know where to fill in the time.
W. J. Young, one of the members of the new
Federal Shipping Board of Control, is a brother of
our Agent-General and second son of the late John
Young, of Mount Templeton. In ’97, when he was
15, he began work at Elder Smith’s, and 10 years
later was sent to England on the firm’s business. Now
he sits in the manager’s chair, is a director of Elder,
Shenton and Co. in W.A., and has pastoral interests
in N. S. Wales.
An American poultry catalogue hails our Professor
Laurie as the expert on egg-production, and gives this
State credit for several world’s hen-fruit records.
It’s a treat for Uncle Sam to come in contact with
fresh eggs these days.
Renmark houses a Russian doctor, a native of
Petrograd, by name Krakowsky, who has stirred the
dust of many lands. He served as a surgeon in the
Boer War after putting in a good many years in
England, and then sampled China for eight years.
Five of these he filled in as physician to the British
Consulate in Manchuria. He came to S. Aus. on a
holiday in July of last year, and reckoned it was
good enough to anchor in.
Illuminated rabbiting parties are the latest form
of useful amusement in the South-East. Powerful port-
able electric-light is used to daze bunny and a net or
a waddy does the rest. It might be a good idea to
try on mice, which are our latest plague. In and
about Port Pirie farmers are casting an anxious eye
on their crops and wheat-stacks.
These are bad days for war brides. The newly-
made Mrs. Barton had planned to go back to England
by the boat on which her husband is doctor, and to
settle there while he went on active service; but the
military bosses knocked her plans on the head with
their embargo against women-and-children risking the
submarine. She has decided now to get as far as
Canada, where she has relatives. That will bring
her closer to hubby and —who knows?
“Comforts” Commissioner Budden put in a strenu-
ous time here. On Tuesday he was lunched by the
Commonwealth Club and publicly welcomed by the
Mayor, and on Wednesday at the Lister Hall he ex-
plained to Comforts Fund workers what he’d done on
their behalf, and what was required of them on Bill-
jim’s behalf. With him «*vas Mrs. Budden. Lady
Galway’s was the first of a list of commendably brief
speeches.
Talking about these funds reminds me that a
troupe of Patriotic Pierrots have raised over £lOOO
since the war began. Goodness knows all that can
be raked in is needed.
Clif. Hanson, cousin of the musician, is
trumpeting his engagement to the charming
Violet, daughter of John Smith, of Black
Bock. I send you this friendly blast just
to help the glad news circulate.
One of the two Fitton girls—l think it is
Ethel—is now hanging on the arm of a sol-
dier-bridegroom, Lieut. Norman. It was a
surprise match and the impetuous young
people are trying hard to explain to the
bride’s busy aunt, who hasn’t much time to
listen, being matron of a big, fashionable pri-
vate hospital.
From “Rosna” in London: —
When it’s not war these days it s weddings. Wil-
liam Archibald Shuldham Dunlop, of Charlton
(Vic.), had an appointment at St. Margaret’s, West-
minster, at Christmas; and it was a wedding that
time. Miss Mary Paule Cunningham, hailing from
N. S. Wales, was there to meet him in shell-pink
ninon with over-dress of white satin. Miss Marjory
Armstrong was a second line of defence; and Col.
Lang, of the A.1.F., supported the benedict.
Vueenie, younger daughter of the wealthy share-
broking Lionel Robinsons, one-time of Melbourne,
was married with much Oclat on New Year's Day.
The - bridegroom is Major John Brocltbank, of the
Machine Gun Corps.
Capt. Rowland B. M. Campion, who has been
mending the wounded since the outbreak of war, and
is one of the five soldier sons of manager Campion,
of the Commonwealth Bank in London, was married
in Egypt on December 30. The bride is a daughter
of the Edgar Shelleys, of Melbourne, and -is a
pretty, bright-faced damsel. Dr. Campion is sta-
tioned in Egypt just now and gets mentioned in
dispatches at regular intervals.
Greta Garnett is now Mrs. Robinson
and supplies her Melbourne friends with
plenty of circumstantial evidence in the
shape of dress details and snapshots. Her war-
scarred hero got leave for a few days and
they took the chance to see a parson. Greta
is an English girl, who was here with her
people when Mr. Garnett came as a British
Trade Commissioner. She also spent a year
or two with sister Mrs. Geof. Syme in the
days before the war. The bridegroom,
Lieut. Robinson, was wounded at Gallipoli,
where he won the Military Cross. Since
then he has been in France, Snapshots
show the bride in a white tulle dress of
ankle length. She carried red roses as a
compliment to her husband’s Lancastrian
regiment, anu "went away” in tailorings and
white fox furs for a short motor honeymoon
to the English lakes.
Elsie Abbott, daughter of the family that
used to live at Sandringham, has written
out excitedly to girl pals telling them she
has just been married to a naval man (rank
not mentioned) named Ben Bell Robertson.
His bride raves fondly about him, says that
he was married in his uniform, and that
there was the absolute minimum of fuss.
The pair went straight to Plymouth after
the ceremony and the sailor went back to
his sea job on Christmas Day. _ The. bride
scribbles on that she was at Eilie Williams’s
wedding to another dear fellow, but neglects
to mention the bridegroom’s name.
Melba is to stay in America a month only.
She is to appear in two concerts and one
opera, and has promised to let Ruby Grey
play some of her concert accompaniments.
The Conservatorium girl is trying hard not
to be too proud about it, and all the other
girls who have to stay behind are making
heroic efforts not to mind.
Ann Williams, the singing mentor of the
Fritz Hart Conservatorium, is at the piano
keyboard again. She spent the six weeks’
vacation loafing round the Apple Island and
telling the birds they were flat.
The Reps, are drawing up plans for an
entertainment to help their Patriotic Sewing
Chib. The affair will happen on the evening
of March 10, and will include a short play
by Miss M. E. Wilkinson, the stage-archi-
tect of “Whither?” Mrs. Robert Broinowski
(once Daisy Evans, of Sydney) will saw her
violin. And, of course, girls will sell sweets
and home-made cakes and flowers—they
always do.
The amateur orchestra Which had agreed
to help along the recent Gregan McMahon
benefit performance at the Playhouse went
on strike early in the evening, and after the
first interval there was no music to soothe
the savage breast concealed beneath the
boiled-shirt front. The trouble was that the
makers of harmony reckoned that their work
was not being treated with proper respect,
as the audience insisted upon discussing
shirt-blouses, neuritis, the appalling price of
boots and other repertory subjects all the
time the melody was happening. When the
conductor delivered his ultimatum Tommy
Cochran was sent to speak the soft word
that turneth on the .tap of harmony; but
Tommy’s purring availed not. Everybody
was thankful the trouble did not occur
before the arrival of the vice-regal party.
Goodness knows what would have happened
if the supply of Gorsave had been cut off!
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


M
v: '
f i
11 i
si
S tor ?
i U
£%&££
IMS
CmH
im
m
r.
. ■ ■ .
d 3
ft
m
m
r- / *
s
%
ac
/I
IS
ss
ism,
%k v
Gen Sir Douglas Haig
Copyright Watson’s No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Sir Douglas Haig is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set will be sent to any address on receipt of VI- postal-note, or 12 penny
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & GO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
y^atdcmiA
-
,/s
m.
cotch tv'fuw
WaJsycm A Cc pe
’**■' Ou-ndfC
1 \
J
'■'"'sssssS/'
,5,,5,/SS////////////////////SS'''<'",.
m
"ss/AMm
m
m
m
M. O I O


m
m
j®.
mmm «
wkms&Jm-K.
■ ■ ?:
16,000 MEN WANTED
each month for Reinforcements, and each one njust have
a Razor that will give
SHAVING SATISFACTION.
A knife that wants constant stropping, honing and
setting is no good on Active Service.
7/6
p
ENN
with 5 Blades
CAFETY
VJ That Shave
Iji
will give you complete satisfaction, each blade being
separately ground, honed and tested—made to shave.
The Razor is just right—weight, balance and shaving
angle; smooth guard—not a harrow—doesn’t comb the
beard—it shaves clean.
Send 7/6 to-day. We will send Razor by return.
Money back without argument if you do not get
shaving satisfaction.
All Storekeepers, or direct from—
A. C.PENN, lac.,
420 George St.,
SYDNEY.
d
fse
The TOP-NOTCH "Scotch
A
& naair 9j mf
Lf-:.
1 '
)./L
Ml L*.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
The white ibis nests, colony
fashion, in swamps and flooded country. The long-
est rushes are broken down and woven into a
platform with irregular arms branching for two or
three feet on either side at a height from water
level of a foot or a foot and a half. Upon these
segments just sufficient lengths of flags are laid,
criss-cross, with old leaves or grass thrown in as
lining. The females do the constructing, while
the bucks supervise. Though the bird associates
with the straw-gizzarded variety at breeding periods
'their apartments are kept distinct. A nomad, the
white ibis often turns up when and where least
expected, and is credited with bringing wet
weather in its wake. A bevy of them flying
over Broken Hill during a heat wave at
the end of December, 1909, collapsed in the streets
and reserve. Many were secured by the onlookers •
others after a respite pushed on, and within a
fortnight the Hill was deluged with rain. A
similar happening occurred in the north-west of
N. S. Wales during the January following.
“McNorth”: Travelling in far-inland
Papua is a heart-breaking game. The whole country
being on end, boot is the only means of propulsion,
and as leading-spurs are as scarce as Huns in Heaven,
the traveller is forever shinning up and down the
precipices that the natives blandly call roads. In
some places ropes are necessary. The country is.,
nearly all dense' scrub, and the semi-darkness ■of
the track and almost incessant rain are ingredients
of the general misery. Sometimes the “road” is
along the bed of a river or creek. Following it
means climbing over slippery boulders, or struggling
with a foaming torrent of cold, muddy water. After
eight or 10 hours of this sort of thing the weary
traveller camps at one of the villages and feels .like
cursing Noah when he looks back and sees his last
three or four camps quite close. All that sweating
and struggling and misery for such a short distance!
Approaching lit. St. Mary’s, a mile a day, in an
air line, is considered good going. The natives
easily speak from hilltop to hilltop, and by this
means learn when a white man is coming and pre-
pare a welcome. If friendly, great piles of yams,
sweet potatoes and other food, including a roast pig
or two, will await the stranger. If hostile he will
see the signs in the spear-heads buried with their
points just above the ground, and in the war-painted
brethren dancing frenziedly on the ridge-top and
derisively hooting defiance. Then it’s just as well
to take some other track. But the country has its
compensations. At times the rain clears and the
sun, showing a smiling face, lights up the stage for
a wonderful transformation scene. A light breeze
stirs the everlasting mists, and in the. clear air the
giant peaks stand outlined, row upon row. The
lights and .shadows produce an extraordinarily beauti-
ful effect which, with the solemn brooding of the
towering packs, fills a man with awe.
* * * *
“Cross Nibs”: For repelling mosquitoes
give whisky and garlic-juice a trial. An old
fisherman put me up to it. Paper coated with
boiled oil and resin is considered by others to
be efficacious. But what commended itself most to
me was the plan adopted by Hairy Bill, erstwhile
rabbiter on the Warrego. Inside his hut were two
bunks. One of these he slept in, the other held an
effigy constructed of various garments, a loosely-
filled chaffbag, a paper mask and a fringe of goat-
hair—altogether a passable counterfeit of William.
When the hour for slumber approached, that honest
Australian placed portion of a sheep’s fry beneath
the mask. Then passing across to the other bunk
he shed his bluchers, disposed the blankets and
slipped into somnolence with a benign smile. lie
solemnly affirmed that the restaurant over the way
attracted most of the diners.
* * * «
“Wal”: These wonderful jumping ’roos
must be descendants of a doe that once scaled a
9ft. yard down Condobolin (N.S.W.) way. Out of
over 7000 marsupials run into that yard she was
the only one that ever hopped it. The ordinary
’roo that I’ve dealt with jumped like this when in
a great hurry: on level ground, about 21ft.; down
hill, about 27ft. Dunno how high they could stand
and leap, but I'd back the hurdle if there were 7ft.
of it. Put the bar up to 10ft. and I’d just as soon
back George lleid to run and jump it as any ’roo
in the land.
FROM THE OTHER ASPECT.
AUCTIONEER (selling ivories of art): “What offers for this beautiful painting of Buck-
ingham Palace?”
JOHNNY: “Aw, that’s not Buckingham Palace — I’ve often been theah!”
AUCTIONEER ( continuing) : “What offers Buckingham Palace, ladies and gentlemen,
FRONT ENTRANCE?”
THE IMPORTANT POINT.
EMPLOYER: “Mr. Thompson writes me that you insulted him yesterday."
BILL COLLECTOR: “I’ll tell you just what happened ”
EMPLOYER : “Tell me first if he paid his bill.”
“E.S.S.”: The ancient Egyptians pro-
tected the ibis, because it defended their crops
against insect plagues; and although the bird so
familiar to Australians is identical with the sacred
ibis of Egypt, the knowledge of its worth doesn’t
give it much protection here. Nest-robbing and
trapping, not to mention shooting and poisoning,
go on everywhere without hindrance. That is
why we hear so much about blowflies and other
curses to-day.. The rarer a bird is the more vigor-
ously it is pursued, and no one pursues it more
relentlessly than the professional naturalist. lie
will hunt for weeks and months to obtain the
“valuable specimen.” He is allowed to murder
any feathered creature “in the interests of science” ;
but what use is the science that causes the extermi-
nation of a species that the dead forms may be
stuck' in a museum, or 'that it may be ascertained
what the bird had for breakfast by dissecting its
gizzard ? The most interesting thing about a bird
is its habits, and that’s what these alleged naturalists
never tell you, because a dead bird hasn’t got any
habits—except the habit of making a bad smell. A
naturalist who studies only dead birds instead of
living ones is an enemy in our midst.
“Two Seas”: Let’s talk again about the
luck of drunks. I was one of a droving party.
Barney was another. Whenever we camped within
a mile or two of a township or a wayside sly-grog
shanty, Barney would hoof it for booze as soon as
his watch was finished, or before, if he had the
morning watch. In the latter case the cook gener-
ally called for him with the cart. Men were scarce;
moreover, Barney was a good man when sober and
his dog was even better, a fact that weighed with
the boss, who was a strict Baptist. One night we
were camped handy to a pub, and as the weather
was very stormy and the sheep restless Barney was
cautioned agkinst leaving camp. He came off watch
with me, and I saw him go into his 6xB. Soon
after I had pulled my boots off and retired a fierce
gusty squall carried away my tent and at the same
time a tree crashed down near by. In a few seconds
all hands were gating at a big gum that lay right
across Barney’s tent. “Is he in there?” asked the
boss, coming up hurriedly with shirt-tails flogging
the breeze. “I saw him go in when we came off
watch,” I replied. “Well, he must be crushed flat,
poor fellow.” “But you didn’t see the old devil
sneak out again,” added one of the men who had
nerved himself to gaze upon a horrid sight and
seemed disappointed with his investigation. Some
hours later, Barney, after gazing indignantly at
his wrecked home and inquiring who was the
blighter that threw the flaming log on it, roared
at the boss, “Don’t you talk to me any more about
the curse of drink. Why, if I had listened to you
I’d have been lying there a blanky corpse.”
“Chal” : Let me tell you about the cham-
pion shout. Just prior to the first batch of recruits
leaving Adelaide for Egypt about 2000 of them were
paraded through the streets. It was a warm day,
the men had been on their feet since 6 a.m., with
scarcely anything to eat and drink, and the road
back to camp was long, hot and dusty. Frank
Jolly sought and received permission to shout for
the whole procession, and when the tired advance-
guard reached the Elephant and Castle Hotel they
found practically the whole of the liquid contents of
the pub waiting for them on the road. Buckets,
tubs, anything that was capable of holding liquid
were all in action. It was only military discipline
that prevented scores from being killed in the rush,
and many a staunch Rechabite broke his pledge that
day.
THE LODGERS’ TOPHET.
“Anne Zack”: Allow me to back “Pick"
in his statement regarding the appearance of weeds
in the Monaro (N.S.AV.) which are new to even the
oldest inhabitants. This season the Federal Terri-
tory, in places, was over-run by the sow thistle,
which grew to the remarkable height of sft. or
6ft. This stranger, which could be seen even in
the most barren, gravelly hills, where grass has
refused to grow for centuries, is devoured greedily by
stock and birds. It might be better known to tne
city folk as “cocky weed,’’ for it is often gathered
for tame cockatoos. The seed of the thistle, aided
by the “thistle down,” is conveyed by the wind
for hundreds and thousands of miles, and even
from continent to continent. Although deposition
of this seed may have taken place year after year
on Monaro, the season may have been unsuitable for
germination. Last season was exceptionally good
and in many respects a record one; So the seed got
the chance it had been waiting for.
(Continued on page 24 .)
JIM AND BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H.6.W.
Silence in the old ’ome,
Somethin’ sad an’ rare;
Nothin’ seems to matter,
No one seems to care;
Mum is always sittin’,
Folded ’ands an’ still,
Thinkin’, thinkin’, thinkin’
Of our Jim and Bill.
Dad comes in from workin’,
Tired-like an’ slow ;
Seems a shame to ask ’im
Things we want to know ;
Won’t sit down to cabbage,
Game ’e most enjoys ;
Nothin’ seems to please ’irn—•
Always it’s “the boys.”
Yesterday I saw 'im,
Standin’ by the rails,
Pointin’ ’is old rifle
At the milkin’-pails.
Seems to be ’e's frettin’,
Kinder takes it ill —■
Wants to go out fightin’
’Long o’ Jim and Bill.
But I’ve got a feelin’,
Somethin’ makes me think,
Dad will start a-boastin’
If ’e takes a drink
Boastin’ of ’em ridin’,
Hidin’ down the ’ill,
Gone to join the army ;
Soldiers —Jim and Bill.
TAL. ORDELL.


“DAVID JONES”
Wardrobe Trunk
f ° r £5 15s.
An exceptional-value trunk, constructed on 3-ply Veneer
and covered ivith best-quality maroon hard fibre,
finished with walnut fibre binding angles on all edges.
Reinforced throughout, strengthened with cold-rolled
steel, and hand riveted. Fitted sliding-top frame, assort-
ment of hangers and 3 drawers. Equally adaptable for
men's or women's use —ivill accommodate 4 suits clothes
or equal number costumes —Cabin size, 36 x 22 x IAJ in.
£5/15/'
Other sizes and qualities at £7/10/-, lOgns., 12, 14, and
1(5 gns. each.
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
OPP.
G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Leviathan Riding Trousers
and Breeches
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
c 2 0. —R I D I N G
BREECHES. Ready-to-
weav. In Khaki Garbicord ;
with deep self strappings;
laced at knees; Fob and
Cross Pockets. Doubly
Stitched ; Taped Seams ; Cut
full for saddle comfort.
Will launder splendidly.
Best English make.
Sizes 3 to 7
18/6
Order by Post. State waist,
seat, inside-leg and calf
measurements.
C2O.—TAILORED TO
ORDER. I" Khaki Drill,
21/-; Khaki Drill Cord
or Canton Mole, 27 /6;
Whipcord, 45/-; Bedford
Cord, 45/-; Self Strapped,
5/„ extra. Buckskin
Strapped, 18/0 extra.
ASK FOR
FREE SAMPLES.
A Money-saver from Start to Finish
so say Contractors and Woolgrowers Everywhere.
The Cooper Shearing Machine Holds the World’s Record for Number of Sheep Shorn before Requiring Repairs. ..
No Need to worry about “Long Bushings/’ “Strengthened Crank Heads” or “Enlarged Fulcrum Cups now being suggested by
some makers to overcome the “shortcomings” of old-type machines. The Cooper Machine contains none 01. those tan ts. 1S
Original One-Bush Machine. It requires No Fulcrum Cups. The Fork is Driven From Behind J lie Bearing, giving it a ong, ea. \
leverage, which never yet has broken off a crank-head or caused u ndue wear in any part of the machine.
Read what some of Australia’s Best-known Contractors and Experts say about it: —
C2O
C2I
C2l. —JUDHPORE RIDING TROUSERS. Ready-to-wear. Can be
to illustration, with long self-strappings; permanent turn-tip Guff Bottoms, C '
Pockets ; Belt Loop and Side Straps. Well cut, strongly sewn and splendidly stayed. Sia. • •
in Khaki Drill ?«V«
In Khaki Drill Of heavier weight and better quality
poi TAILORED TO ORDER. In Khaki Drill, 21/*; Canton Moleskin, 27/6,
C2 'S .„FSS, nH)! c.,i a7/'i; *«. o. England Saddle Tweed and White or Cean,
Bedford Cord, 45/-; Self strapped, 5/- extra; Buckskin strapped, 13/6 extia.
WORKING TROUSERS. Ready-to-wear in Khaki or Olive Drill; strongly ma e.
side straps and loops for belt. Ready-to-wear. Sizes 3 to 7. ••
RIDING TROUSERS. — Tailored to Order in Khaki Drill, 15/6; Khal “ ? 111 °
18/6; Canton Mole, 21/-; Twist Tweeds, 32/6; Bedford Cold, 30/-. &e f PI >
5/- extra; Buckskin strapped, 13/6 extra. ~
LEATHER TWEED TROUSERS. —Made from the toughest Dark Grey Leather Tweed,
holeproof and practically indestructible. Ready-to-wear. Sizes 3 to 7
ORDINARY CUT. 13/6 per pr. STOCKMAN’S CUT, 15/6 per pr.
ASK FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE,
F. FRIEND, SHEARER:—“I have
just finished my 15,000 sheep with the
handpiece, and 11,000 of them before
the machine had a single repair. In my
22 years’ shearing I have never seen
such work.”
ERNEST AiSBURN, CONTRACTOR: —“We have satisfied ourselves that the cost of
upkeep is 75 per cent, less than others.
T NANGLE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION“The machines have had
more'than ordinary rough usage, but the repairs during five years have been ms.gn.flcant.”
JAMES GREEN, CONTRACTOR: —“One machine has shorn 7000 sheep and is still at
work, and so far has not been touched for repairs.”
i FIIIS WOOLGROWER: —“The plant of Cooper Machines has just finished five
weeks’ sheading and the machines went without a stop. Not one repair was required.”
"
'T■ ■
I
?■; ,
Is it any wonder that Cooper Machines are replacing othei Types?
They are as far ahead of other makes as the motor-car of to-day is ahead of the 1900 model.
If your Handpieces are out of order install these New Cooper Air-Cooled Machines.
The Cost is only £2 2s. each.
If you require a Shearing Plant let us submit you particulars and price of an outfit to suit your
requirements. It will cost you less in the first place and save you money ever afterwards.
Cooper Engineering' Company Ltd.
129 Sussex Street, SYDNEY " 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sute
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin. Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
MEGGITT’S
IJnseeo on Mo\[
m
/AEG
PAR
s
##
fgd
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT'S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
Pigs, calves, heifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on. a daily ration of linseed-oil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the butter-fat test by One
Point.
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
carry away all the prizes. Mr. 11. McD. Livingstone,
Rosehill Farm, Kingaroy, at the 1910 show won
seven first prizes with a pen of calves and won the
three butter-fat tests with a pair of M Tgitt T-insced-
oil meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD.,
V
Linseed Oil and. Oil Meal Manufacturers, Parramatta, N. S. Wales.
“Rag”: This is gospel. Years ago in
New Guinea, after firing a set of holes, one lump
of dolomite was too big for the “bucket,” so I
spalled it. ’Twas hard as the hobs of Hell, without
any cracks and dry as dust; but, as it broke, out
hopped a big lackadaisical frog from a small polished
depression of his own shape in the centre of the
stone. His limbs were efficient, though somewhat
half-baked in appearance; and his glorious full eyes
were expressive with the wisdom gleaned, from the
contemplation of the philosophies of prehistoric ages.
We let him go.
“4217 Gunner”: In the kerosene-tin
measurements given by “Poddy” (B. 23/11 / ’IG) is
a flagrant error. Four gallons of milk, or beer, is
its capacity, he says, though tlnr tin is branded
4 1-6 gallons; and 1073.25 inches is the cubic capa-
city, he calculates. Tn the bush schools the kiddies
will be taught that a gallon contains 277.274 cubic
inches, and even at four gallons the contents of the
tin works out at 1109.096 cubic inches. The error
only amounts to 36 inches, but 36 inches of beer,
say, deserves recognition.
THE RULING PASSION.
TEACHER OF SCRIPTURE CLASS: "Yes, children, then Nero ordered his con urion to give
the slave twenty stripes"
MABEL (whose father is in camp): "Lord, mum, ’e must ’a’ made ’im a blanky colonel!"
“T.H.M.”: Alex. McEvoy, on the Port
Lincoln-Streaky Bay motor-coach route, b"s just
completed an aggregate of 76,000 miles in 760 con-
secutive days. Anyone got anything better than 100
miles a day for 25 months up their sleeve? If so
let us have it.
IN RETORT.
BANDY BENJAMIN (with dignity): "I may ’are the misfortin’ of 'aria' the appearance
of 'axin' been ridin' a beer barrel. But, thank 'Raven, I don’t look us if I’d
bloomin’ well smallered one."
“Truthful James”: If you start a bush
fire in Kimberley (W.A.) thousands of scavenger
hawks immediately flock to the scene for the purpose
of catching the big population of lizards that the
fire drives from their haunts. The birds hover about
100 ft. above the fire and make swift dives on their
piey. When black brother desires to replenish the
poultry larddr he catches a lizard and starts a bush
fire. He then gets inside an old ant-nest or builds
a mound of stones, leaving an aperture of about a
foot in diameter at the top. In this opening he
holds a lizard, and when the hawk pounces he grabs
it by the feet' with one hand and cracks its neck
with the other. I have seen a dozen of the fowl
caught by the method at one sitting.
“Salex”: “E.S.S.” (B. 8/2/T7) says that
only one bird besides the reed-warbler and blue wren
sings at night. What about the willie wagtail
(black and white fantail) ? I had the pleasure
of waggie’s serenade for eighteen weeks recently.
I happened to be an inmate in a private hospital
at N. Sydney, and I can tell you that the call of
this bird and the answering notes from one some
distance away were quite a tonic to me. The
mopoke and curlew also sing at night, but I
won’t say they are worth a place in the choir.
“Norseman”: Re “Reynard’s” request
(B. l/2/’l7) to have his knowledge vacuum filled
regarding where the ibis nests. If he takes a walk
out here to the Paroo. River, and then travels about
40 miles down to where it gets too tired to reach
the Darling and spreads out over the country', he
can have ibis’s eggs in thousands. The white ibis
is as plentiful as wowsers at a wicked picture-film.
“Montalex”: “Sarto” (B. 8/2/T7)
appears to have c truck, a half-grown specimen of
Xanthosaurus constrictus, a very rare species of the
genus Grammophora, otherwise well represented in
Australia. An old-standing biological mystery is the
existence of frogs and lizards imprisoned thus in
solid timber, or even in stone. 1 have seen a small
frog released from a cavity in a lump of limestone.
Although there was no trace of communication with
the exterior, the creature was alive and active. Like
many other zoologists 1 had scouted the possibility'
of such a thing until thus convinced. Various
theories have been advanced to account for the
phenomenon, but none of them will do the trick.
“M.W.F.”: Anent “Werrimee’s par. (B.
l/2/’l7) on native bees, can any Alx>. give informa-
tion regarding a specie of bee whicfl lives under-
ground ? In the N.E. of S. Aus. there’s a bed right
on the hard track in mulga hills where a colony
have lived for the past 10 years in a burrow similar
to an ordinary antbed. They are not ferocious, are
of a grey greeny color, a little smaller than the
common bee and similar in shape. Don’t know if
they store honey. There’s too many of them to ask.
No ! they’re not wasps.
* * * *
“Flinderico”: Explain to “New Chum”
(B. l/2/’l7), who wants to know how to dodge
mosquito bites, . the simple remedy used by all the
nicest aboriginal families along the Bloomfield River
and other North Queensland streams, where mos-
quitoes swarm. Before retiring to the gunvah for
the night they plaster their bodies with a thick layer
of mud, taken from a mangrove swamp for prefer-
ence. If this doesn't fix up “New Chum” the mos-
quitoes must be very powerful up his way.
* * * *
“Wart”: “McNorth” (B. 4/l/’l7) enters
travelling per boot "along the endless beaches of the
Gulf of Papua as the worst pastime he knows. Let
him try the horizontal scrub of Tasmania’s West
Coast. This vegetable first grows upwards, but,
getting top heavy, the bunch at the top drops over
and the tree makes another start growing up, and
so on, up and down again. In the end it makes a
mat so thick that a prospector has a choice of clam-
bering over the top 12 or 14 feet from the ground
or cutting a tunnel through it. To add to the
enjoyment it rains five days a week, and every pound
of tucker has to bo carried. About the only life to
be found is the badger, which makes a change of
menu occasionally, though he is getting scarce. If
there is anything to come near the horizontal scrub
it is th& button-grass plains of the same locality,
where the traveller can either leap from clump to
clump or go between them up to his knees in water.
“P.II.”: The red-backed spider is the
most venomous of the tribe. I have seen a powerful
athlete, in the prime of life, within 20 minutes after
being bitten on the thigh, writhing in pain, with
sweat oozing all over the body hard swellings
of the ganglia of the armpits and groin. Fortu-
nately there is a simple and perfect cure nearly
always at hand. It is the tobacco juice which accu-
mulates in the ordinary smoking pipe. If this is
laid on the bitten part without delay pain ceases
instantly and no bad effects follow. The flesh about
the bite hardens, but becoines normal in a few days.
I have treated about six spider and several scorpion
and centipede bites without a failure. Children have
been great sufferers from insect poisons Outback. I
have seen the muscles of an arm wither and blind-
ness follow from this cause. The time of greatest
danger is during a heavy downpour of rain in hot
weather, when the dislodged vermin are roused to
maximum energy'.
* # * *
“Wattle” : You meet stout hearts in the
bush. One I introduced myself to belonged to an old
chap footing it along a road with a big mixed load
up. “That’s a thundering pack you’ve got aboard,”
I said. “This is only some of it,” he replied. “I’ve
got two more lots as big as this.” He explained
that he was going prospecting and that after buying
kit and supplies in the township he hadn’t enougli
money left to pay' for the carting of the goods, so
he decided to hump them. He divided the lot into
three and set out on his journey in sections of about
half a mile, bringing the swags along in turn, lie
reckoned the place he was heading to was about 20
miles away. Evidently he was speaking dinkum,
as I passed some of his property after I left him.
Don’t know how he got on prospecting, hut I hope
his luck was equal to his pluck.
* * * #
“Spraggs”: This is my experience re
sudden death of sheep. I was tailing a big mob a
few weeks back, and when 1 pitched camp at night
the sniffing of the jumbueks was like ten thousand
steam jets hissing. I put it down to grass seeds.
Several of the beasts died and the post-mortem
showed, when the head was split open, that nine out
of ten contained a white grub, about half an inch
long, boring into the brain, after having worked
up the nostril. I’m told it’s bot-fly. Is it?
* * * #
“Eryander” : “E.S.S.” fB. 25/1/T7) is n
reliable observer, but his 12-inch centipede staggers
me, that being an out-size for even the tropical
species. The biggest Australian ’pede I have seen
measured 8-1 inches. As for the Australian scorpion,
I have twice been stung by him and the pain was
severe enough to make me thankful that I had never
sampled the venom of the big 9-inchers I had seen
in Malaysia. Hut I think pur worst biter—bar
snakes —is the red-backed spider. One got me on
the thumb once, and for the next four hours I had
an unholy time, after which the arm swelled hugely
right up to the shoulder, and remained painful and
useless for nearly a fortnight. There is in Borneo
a species of this spider that is three times the size
of ours. Its bite is reputed to be always rapidly
fatal, and even the Australian species has some-
times caused death- in feeble or unwholesome sub-
jects. Victoria has a record of three cases.
A WRONG DIAGNOSIS.
PARSON: “Why dinna ye come to kirk some-
times, MacTavish?”
MAC: “ It’s good. I canna hear any-
thing, I'm sae deaf."
PARSON: “But surely ye can hear some-
thing?"
MAC: "Well, I can hear the preacher talk-
ing, hut what I mean is that I canna
understand what he is talking aboot."
PARSON: “ That's nae deafness, MacTavish;
that's lack of comprehenshun.”
THE ALL-SWEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In this green alley,
Escaped from the heat,
Ferns overarching
And ferns at my feet,
Nature, kind nature, my mentor, my lover,
Guide my thoughts straightly that I may discover
The sweet —the all-sweet 1
Is it’ yon mocker,
Yon trickster, yon knave,
Dew on your lyre-plumes,
Asway in the brave
Airs of the morning, careering, caressing
Lichens and leafage, and mosses green-tressing
Wet cavern and cave ?
Is it the prattle
Of waters unseen —-
Shy waters, swift waters,
That laugh through the green
Of sassafras leafage and beeches green-flaking
The tree glooms, and frondage with maidenhair
making
A gossamer screen ?
Is it this splendor
Of vista sun-drowned —
These lances, light lances,
Gold-splashing the ground,
Till dry leaf and green leaf, and rocks scarred and
battered,
Grow rich like a carpet where gold coins lie scat-
tered
In plenty around ?
Is it yon turret
Uplifted, sublime?
Or (hearken! Oh, hearken!)
That musical chime—
A bell-note, bird-uttered, soft rising, soft falling.
As though the lone voice of a steeple wore calling
At church-going time?
Nay, Mistress Nature !
Though melodies move,
And glamor surrounds me,
A sweetness above
The charms of this greenest of green wildernesses
Steals forth from the presence and clings to the
tresses
Of her whom I love.
N.SAV.
RODERIC QUINN.


DU I IL.OP
RUJ
CO
7/
up
B£R
t)DS
DUNLOP
TYRES
FORWARDING PEPOTS
12
« m s
». - v
(3
Packer: “Give my respects to the Customer, i»!ac! ”
Our Envoy. ‘ I’ll give 1,400 Dunlop workers’ respects
to the Motorist who keeps his money in
his Country ''
Packer: “And what will you give the Motorist who
doesn’t ? ”
Our Envoy “My honest opinion, backed by half the
Motorists in Australia, that no imported
tyre is superior to the WHITE TREAD
DUNLOP for quality, nor equals it for
' reasonable cost, durability, asd low run-
ning cost per mile.”
STOCKED IN GROOVED,
THREE RIBBED AND
RUBBER NON • SKID.
All Leading Garages.
OvjNlOP rubber CO.
Ail States and N.Z,


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That makes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases,
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often provt
sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Cold; but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to make any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as It
does NOT contain, and has NEVER, contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUGHS. CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS.
fists
&
SSSi
4m
A
'm
S?
13.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney, N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Copabella”: One new industry at least
may be credited to the war : that of manu-
facturing businesses for the Repatriation
Committee to purchase. At the time when
the apple-a-day boom was on in Melbourne,
last year an enterprising orcliardist took a
vacant shop in my suburb as a depot, and
unloaded therefrom several thousand cases
of surplus fruit at Is. and Is. 6d. a case.
Business boomed, naturally; and at the
top of the boom I*. Enterprise unloaded the
goodwill on to the Repatriots for £B5. The
repatriated showed four apples, a cabbage
and three bottles of lime-soda in the window
for a week arid then faded away. The shop,
empty, now awaits the next enterpriser.
Six months ago two strangers from the
country blew into the town and opened a
Cut-flower-and-live-chick shop in a good posi-
tion. Three months later they befriended
a poor soldier invalided from the Battle of
the Wassa, and suffering from the severe
effects of a maintenance order received in a
suburban court. This week the Repatriation
Committee purchased the business for the
Wassa , veteran, price £JOO. The vendors,
in answer to my query as to their plans,
said they thought they would have a spell
for a while. They should: they have earned
it. These two instances are in my own
suburb; what must the total be throughout
the Commonwealth V The irony is that
everybody but the Repatriation Committee
seems to know what is going on. it, appar-
ently, is too proud—or too omniscient —to
ask.
***■'*
“F.W.W.” : I was yarning at the counter
of a bush store the other day when a young
lydy sailed in and demanded a cruet. The
shopkeeper produced one; price, 17s. 6„d.
Miss elevated her nose and haughtily asked
for “somethin’ better for a weddin’ pre-
sent.” The shopkeeper passed the offensive
article under the counter, pulled out a
drawer below and produced something
at £2 10s. —and cheap. It was packed and
paid for. “I’ll take the other one,” I said.
“You can’t.” he chuckled. “It’s sold!”
* ' * * *
“Jay-Jay” : Ike’s complaint (B. 8/2/ IT)
concerning the jam supplied to Billjim in
Egypt might also be made about the dried
fruit purchased by the Red Cross Society
for the use of the Australian wounded in
England. During the last 18 months this
society has purchased thousands of cases or
Uncle Sham’s preserved fruits-. W hat’s up:
Aren’t there enough Australian plums to go
round, or is it because they’re “Colonial
plums? Is that brilliant Wby Commissioner
Andy Fisher doing anything?
* * * *
“Vincent T.” on postal inconveniences: —
Next time any P.M.G. has a little leisure, lie
might see if there is a possibility of keeping
some of the suburban telegraph lines open for busi-
ness after midday on public holidays. On a recent
knock-off day I received in Sydney a telegram tell-
ing me that my mother was desperately ill in a
Melbourne suburb. I tried to lodge an urgent
message at Sydney G.P.O. and was told that it
would have to wait until next morning for delivery.
Alternatively I could send it as far as Melbourne on
the wires -and then pay porterage for an eight-mile
trip. This in a district fairly laced with wires!
But .(so I was told) I might have saved myself all
trouble and anxiety by foreseeing that my mother
was going to be dangerously ill, giving fair warning
to clio telegraph department and paying half a crown
so that the suburban office could be kept alive.
The P.M.G. need not trouble about such fads as aero-
plane mails while the whole telegraph service goes
dead whenever one of our numerous holidays happens
along. It shouldn’t be impossible for a live admin-
istrator to group the suburban offices and let one
in l each group keep open in rotation for urgent busi-
ness on holidays. If the Department can’t afford to
do it at ordinary rates, let it charge extra for this
emergency service—though, as one of the first public
utilities, it should always be available at reasonable
cost.
* * * *
“P.A.L.”: Who says only Germans are
able to make fast dyes? A venerable
friend of mine who has owned a head of
thick silvery-grey hair for the past 15 years
came home the other night with his lovely
locks dyed dull ginger—not a beautiful
sunset red, but common everyday ginger. A
new cap, “Made in England,” with a yellow-
ish-brown lining and a hot day had worked
the horrible transformation. After three
months of doubt and agony the hair is begin-
ning to beat the dye. But you ought to hear
his evening Hymn of Hate when he inspects
his thatch in the glass!
* * * * *
“II.”: There are some strange inequalities
about the depreciation allowances under the
Federal Income Tax regulations. Biograph
films, for instance, are allowed a deprecia-
tion of 20 per cent., which gives them a life
of live years. If “The Mystery of the Scar-
let Feet” can really last as long as that,
I’m off to some savage island. Furniture
in ordinary business places is allowed a 5
per cent, wear and tear; but in “doctors’,
lawyers’ and other professional men’s con-
sulting rooms” only 2i per cent. In houses
let furnished, the rate goes up again to 7j
per cent. Somebody in the department evi-
dently knows something about letting fur-
nished houses. If he knew a bit more the
depreciation might have been fixed at 25
per cent.
* * *
“G. Arden Hill”: Blackberry-picking is
now in full swing in the northern end of the
Illawarra (N.S.W.) district. Hereabouts
the vine is not regarded as a dangerous in-
truder, but rather as a welcome visitor who
happens along every year with wealth in his
■whiskers. The country is too broken and
the mountains are too close to the sea for
extensive culture, and, anyway, beyond the
growing of a few potatoes, cabbages and
beans, the Illawarra coal-miner doesn’t
bother much about the land. . lie is usually
too busy working out to a decimal point how
much the boss owes him for deficiency com-
pensation. So the vines are allowed to go
unchecked and run riot over the mountain
slopes. Every year approximately 200 tons
of berries are sent away to the Sydney
jam companies. This means a return of
upwards of £2OOO to the pickers, who are
paid 10s. 6d. a hundredweight. When the
season is at its height and the berries are
plentiful some pickers earn 10s. a day; but
the average pick is not more than 501 b. or
001 b. Much depends upon the accessibility
of the vines. In the dairy-farming country
further south the vine is regarded as a pest
and treated accordingly.
* * * *
“Silas Snell’s” tale of thrift: —
The neighbors contend that this is the true explana-
tion of the Craft menage, which consists of Andrew
Craft, Mrs. Andrew, the Other One and the Other
One’s three children. The impropriety of the’ arrange-
ment does not seem to concern Burnt Stump. In
point of fact, Mrs. Andrew has rather increased her
reputation for tact and economic management by
her action. Formerly the Other One lived in the
bark hut at Shepherd’s End, presumably at the
expense of Andrew Craft, a notorious prodigal who
betrayed no more compunction over the dissipation
of a whole “saxpence”—aye, or a “shullin’,” for
the matter of that —than you or I might over the
loss of a finger. For some time Mrs. Craft was sus-
picious. She kenned well Andrew was not so often
a “shullin’,” or maybe “twa,” short in the egg
money all for naught. It was this scatterbrain pro-
digality in her good man that had compelled her long
ago to take the management of the farm into her
own hands. But the thing had become common talk,
and a child had been born to the Other One before
Mrs. Andrew Craft took action. On a braw day
she suddenly appeared in the hut occupied by the
Other One and her offspring. The hut was furnished
with kerosene cases, the bush bunk was covered with
a Wagga rug, and the Other One was hardly more
sumptuously clad. At this poor body Mrs. Craft
shook an umbrella. “I ken weel what’s goin’ on
here, ma’am,” she said, “ ’n’ I’ll have ye understand
I’ll no bide by it. D’ye think I’ll submit to the
extravagance o’ yon spendthrift in keepin’ up twa
establishments? I’ll no, ma’am! Dinna ye fash
yersel’. I’m a gude wife and a careful, and will no
have on my conscience the heavy sin o’ this pro-
digal livin'. So, ma’am, you’ll do one o’ twa things:
you’ll gi’ him up, or you’ll come and bide wi’ us
and tak’ what’s goin’ wi’ the rest at the farm.”
The Other One elected to go and bide at the farm,
and already her firstborn is milking.
* * # *
The idea that the Post Office doesn’t do
enough for the money is absurd. The
Bulletin dropped a note to its agent at
Berrima. It was given a ride to London
and then to Hull, where it was marked “Try
Australia.” Back it came, and Berrima,
being looked up in whatever guide the Depart-
ment follows when it is bushed, was found
somewhere near N. S. Wales’s main Southern
line. In fact, had the Department not been
a whale for work, with a long pole it might
have delivered that letter without moving
from Sydney.
» * * *
“Montalex” : Recently I examined a type-
writer that can talk Arabic. The ingenuity
with which the difficulties of construction
have been overcome amazed me. Arabic has
115 characters. No less than 92 of them are
on the machine, and the remaining 23 can
be “built” by striking two or more keys. A
line of Omar’s language involves two sub-
sidiary lines, for the frequent striking of
letters above or below the main line, and the
letter-width, which varies continually, has to
be provided for at every stroke. There is an
unthought-of demand for these machines, the
Arabic character being used for over a score
of languages, including Hindustani, Persian,
Turkish, Tartar and Malayan. The Japan-
ese typewriter, long considered impossible on
account of the thousands of ideographs,
derived from the Chinese, was made practic-
able by the adoption of Katakana, a phonetic
adaptation in common commercial use.
“ * *• * *
Will Law’son’s fleet: —
The ex-steam-trawler Mullogh, now being con-
verted into a store-ship at Lyttelton, is another
Methuselah of the seas that has grown whiskers
in Maoriland waters. She was launched at Queen’s
Island, Belfast, in 1855, and the hole she made
measured only 59 tons. While the Edina is the
patriarch among working steamers in Australasia,
there are older steam-driven arks still fretting the
waters. One is the Norwich, built in 1836, and
now somewhere in U.S.A. waters. And there are
the Glengarry .and the Glencoe, twins, born in
1841, and both still trading out .of Glasgow.
* * * *
“D.M.” Given a proper Protective tariff,
with suitable checks on dumping, there is no
reason why we should not work up our own
oil in our own’country. There is hardly any
limit to the quantity held in Australia’s
black coal, brown coal and kerosene shale;
and it will be extracted and distilled here
before long. So a warm discussion has
arisen concerning methods and processes for
oil distillation and refining amongst the
members of the semi-scientific bodies wffiich
the Governments are subsidising to ascertain
what new industries are feasible. The Vic.
Government is being urged by its committee
of experts to establish works to treat brown
coal for its power, its ammonia, and its tar.
The committee has asked the Cabinet to send
the State geologist (not the State chemist)
round the world to buy machinery, and in-
quire into processes of manufacture. To an
outsider a first-class chemist would appear
to be the proper person to send —if it were
necessary to send anybody away, which, it is
not. The calling of tenders would flood the
Vic. Mines Department with offers of
machinery to work brown coal for all it is
worth.
DISENCHANTMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
The restless city 1 forsook,
A disenchanted man,
To seek the forest and the brook
And honest, artless Nan.
The city girl, with tinted face,
And figure twisted with a lace,
With tortured hair and shaded eyes,
Had left me poorer and more wise.
I found the simple country maid
Where range and river meet,
With tresses drab, in brown arrayed,
With bluchers on her feet.
I’m going; from the rural girl.
She doesn’t paint, she doesn’t curl,
Or manicure, or stain, or dye, /
Or tightly lace. And that is why.
SNELL.
The Inky Way.
C. J. Stevens, just dead in Adelaide, was
a gentle and lovable whiskered journalist of
an old-fashioned school. His career was
from boyhood on the Register, and he was
second only to editor Sowden when at oil
his health broke down, and he retired, to
live with his sons on a farm. That was in
1910. But he could not keep away from the
sound of the printing-press, and wrote a good
deal for the new Mail whenever health
allowed. The last year or so he had been in
a very bad way, and the end came as a
release.
* * * *
“Et Ego” : Best and nastiest recent head-
line was put up by Melbourne Herald:
‘■Too Proud to Bite” —on a snake that could
not be induced to insert its fangs into a
“charmer’s” hand until he had slapped its
head and put his finger in its mouth, while
his assistant stood on the reptile’s tail.
* * * *
“Mario”: This one may be covered in
moss, but it’s well worth scraping. A
preacher was inveighing against the extrava-
gances of smart society. He ended. “Bro-
thers and sisters, thp boulevards of Hell are
paved with cigarette-butts, empty cham-
pagne bottles and the cast-off shoes of ballet
girls.” When the reporter turned in his
par. it was headed, “O Death,.Where is Thy
Sting?”
* « * *
“Billy B.” : This good headline a Welling-
ton (M.L.) Post man put up. The City
Council was discussing improved street
urinals. “Gentlemen Only” headed the re-
port.
* * * *
“Glen Huntly” : Inky wayfarers have been
quoting what they consider good newspaper
headlines. Nearly all have been brief and
epigrammatic, and in the republic that _is
not to proud to skite would, in many in-
stances, be thought feeble. My most cher-
ished example of Yankee headlines took up
the entire front page of a Denver paper
which, on a couple of succeeding pages, con-
tained an account of the Burns-Squires
scrap. Set up in poster type they read: —
BURNS AND SQUIRES.
TOMMY PASSES BOSHTER BILL THE LEMON.
HE WALKED RIGHT IN,
HE TURNED AROUND,
AND
HE WALKED RIGHT OUT AGAIN.
Incidentally, what about some of the pre-
tentious headlines that miscarry? One of
the worst I remember was in the Age. A
strange fish had been caught in the bay
and the result was: “Piscatorial Rara Avis.”
# * * *
“Night Sub”: I don’t know about the best
newspaper heading, but I can put in a can-
didate for the worst. It was 15 or 20 years
ago, and Bill Howell, then at the top of his
form, was with an Australian XI in Eng-
land. He got hurt in the field. The day-
cableman, jovial soul, headed it, “Howell
Howling,” and so it appeared in the after-
noon paper. When he had gone home, in
came the niglit-cableman, a refined stylist.
I can still hear the indrawn breath hissing
through his teeth, as with one in great pain,
while he reached for a pencil to change the
noxious thing to “Australian Bowler Dis-
abled.”
'*‘ * * *
“Eta” : A Brisbane sub. scored these head-
lines over a description of an execution some
years ago: “Fatality at Boggo-road—Man’s
Fall from a Scaffold.” For one year of its
life Brisbane Daily Mail had an editor
who always insisted on having a single word
followed by an exclamation mark over all
items of note. Thus the readers soon got
used to such headlines as “Treacherous!”
“Grave!” or “Asquith!” One morning, at
breakfast, it was just “Bloody!”
“J.S”: Another headline for the collec-
tion. Millsom and Fowler, condemned for
the murder of an old man in Whitechapel,
were to be hanged on the same day as Mrs.
Dyer, of baby-farming fame, and another
murderer named Seamen. In the case of
Millsom the rope broke, and his end was bad
indeed. “Dagonet” (Geo. R. Sims), of The
Referee, put it this way: “Seldom do we
Seamen Dyer Fowler death than Millsom.”
* * * *
It exploded in a Moree (N.S.W.) paper
many' years ago. The reporter who was also
comp, and general rouseabouf, had “done”
the local hospital ball, and next morning
Moree read, “The gents wore evening dress,
and their eyes sparkled as their arms en-
circled the waists of their fair prospective
paramours.”
• * * *
The Western Mail (W.A.) solemnly
bared its head and spoke thus of the kelpie
sheep-dog recently:—
The eyes of a perfect specimen are steady and
deeply set, almost wistful in their melancholy eager-
ness. At times a sorrow seems resting there, as if
regretting the eternal parting of his master and
himself by reason of the immorality denied him.
Now of course we know why the poets
always speak of “the faithful hound.
BOOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh bury me in books when I am dead,
Fair quarto leaves of ivory and gold,
And silk octavos bound in brown and red,
That tales of love and chivalry unfold.
Heap me in volumes of fine vellum wrought,
Creamed with the close content of silent" speech.
Wrap me in sapphire tapestries of thought
From some old epic out of common reach.
I would my shroud were verse-embroidered too —
Your verse for preference, in starry stitch,
And powdered o’er with rhymes that poets woo,
Breathing dream-lyrics in moon-measures rich.
Night holds me with a horror of the grave
That knows not poetry, nor song, nor you;
Nor leaves of love that down the ages wave
Romance and fire in burnished cloths of blue.
Oh bury me in books, and I’ll not mind
The cold, slow worms that coil around my head;
Since my lone soul may turn the page and find
The lines you wrote to me, when I am dead.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


The New Sun for the Whole World
THE BEAR : “Shut up,
you Fool. That’s not
the Sun ; it’s a B.T.H.
MAZDA LAMP!”
m
Va
—A
■■■
46.
)/f^\
V=
A
\
r
\jt
A
/
W'Z<
M
n
S
\
/^Tnctoflfan
f
‘Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
TELEPHONE-
CITY 3510 (5 lines).
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering- Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 0579.
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd.. La*nc«*>ton; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Double Sovereign Purse
and Stamp Holder, handsomely engraved, £5/10/-
Silver, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Match Box,
£3/10/-. Silver, Gold
Mounted, 15/-
1
i
swair
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Safety Pin, with patent two-
piece non-breakable joint. 1 Jin.,
3/6; Gin., 4/6; Gin., 5/6.
15ct. Gold: Hin., 7/6; Gin.,
8/6; liin., 10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Links, richly en-
graved, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Gold Mounted
Cigar Cutter, 12/6.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct.
Gold Plain
Oval Signet
Ring, 20/-;
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold
Ring, set Ame-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Solid Gold Medal,
20/-; 15ct. Gold,
40/-; Silver, 3/6.
A. Saunders’ Luminous Dial Mili-
tary Silver Lever Watch, in regula-
tion strap, £2/10/-. Extra jewelled,
£3, £3/10/-. Gold filled, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-. Solid Gold, £4/10/-, £5,
£5/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Solid Gold
Albert “Curb,”
£4/10/-
Others, £2/15/-,
£3/2/6,
£3/15/-,
£4/2/6, £5,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Nickel-silver Screw-
front, one piece back case Railway
Lever Watch, with screw-front Bezel, air-;
dust- and water-proof. Lever movement, full
chronometer balance, accurately adjusted arid
regulated, 30/-. Extra jewelled, £2,
£2/10/-. Solid silver cases, -£2/10/-,
£3, £4/10/-, £5, £6.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Nickel or Gunmetal Wrist-
let Watch. Full jewelled, Compensation Balance, Lever Move-
ment, 30/-. Solid silver case, £2. Gold filled Luminous Dial,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Combination Sovereign Purse and
Match Box, £5/10/-. Plain or engaved, 15ct. Gold, £lO.
' Silver, 25/-
A. Saunders’
Oct, Solid Gold
Albert,
£3/15/-;
Heavier, £4/2/6,
£4/10/-, £5.
15ct„ £6/10/-.
Heavier,
£7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Gent.’s Seal
Pendant, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Solid
Gold Cigarette Case,
“Ribbon” Design,
£l2/10/-. Plain, £lO. Solid
Silver, 30/-. Rolled Gold,
£2/15/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold-
mounted Am-
ber Cigarette
Holder, in 9ct.
Gold Case, 407-
Ditto Cigar Holder,
£3/5/-
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Tie Clip, extra
heavy, plain or engraved,
15/-
Kill those Germs
Germs cause Sore and Husky Throats.
EVANS’ Pastilles .
are a scientific means of removing the cause.
Doctors prescribe them.
BVANS , SONS, LBSCtIBR & WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
///
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
Shipped in British vessels. H
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
Ivan* lone Leecher & Webb, Ltd Liverpool A London.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Du.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,.
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen tjie
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games,'l/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted.. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Nelghisor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or.woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
HT BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prof. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. ' Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1 /-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
oosted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers* Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
lleptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. gWEstablished 25 Years.
ONEY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
KEMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OE ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho.
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas.- Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita
tions and Readings. 1/3. Nervousness and It-
Cure. 1/2 posted. AVebster's Large Unabridgki
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?)
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors. 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete). 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAI.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


“G.H.”: When P.M.G. Webster inquires
into the complaint made by “P.X. ’ (B.
S/2/T7) he might also ascertain why Expe-
ditionary letters are not handed out on
Saturday afternoons. Time after time at
my own office there have been big bundles of
Expeditionary letters, and the officials have
refused to hand over the precious things,
delivering them 36 hours later by ordinary
letter-carrier. This happens practically
every time an Expeditionary mail arrives in
Sydney- on Friday or Saturday morning.
You can get delivery of a letter posted by
anybody but a Billjim. Apparently the
Postal Department’s idea is that if you’ve
got a son or a sweetheart who is fighting for
his country you ought to he punished for it.
At any rate, that is the effect of the rotten
practice.
But for the thoroughness of two Vic.
railway officials, an unsuspecting bargain-
hunter at the recent periodical sale of un-
claimed luggage would have got the shock of
his life. One of the lots to be put up was
a dress basket which is believed to have
come originally from the cloakroom at
Bairnsdale, but had spent at least two
months in the Spencer-street (Melb.) Lost
Property Office. It was opened by the men
whose job it was to get things ready for the
sale, and they found within it, under an old
rug, and dressed in a white frock, the mum-
mified body of a baby, so shrivelled as to be
almost unrecognisable as anything human.
Missing Friends.
WANTED. —Information present where-
abouts DANIEL LYNCH, Tank-
sinker and Carrying Contractor, Broken
Mill District.
BRIGHT & BRIGHT,
Solicitors,
Kooringa, Burra, S.A.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSHt
JIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
"piVOI.I THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE PASSING SHOW.
SYDNEY JAMES, MADELINE ROSSITER, GWEN
LEWIS, W. G. DESMOND, GEORGE GRAYSTONE,
CONNIE MILNE and WINIFRED LEVIERE.
Also FRANK MARIvLEY, ROSE and DELL, Mdlle.
LINGARDE, ANZAC the SOLDIER DOG.
Plan at Glen's.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY, including
FLORENCE YOUNG, in the London and New York
Brilliant Success,
TIIE PINK LADY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. TAIT’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
BARRY LUPINO as “EDDIE.”
Smartest and Brightest of Musical Comedy Successes.
ONLY TWO WORDS—BUT WHAT REAL
JOY.
W lIIT E CI T Y
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 to 11.
GA RD E N THE AT RE,
Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE SMART SET
(from LONDON).
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6,
TEL
Till ANGLE PLAYS AT
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
TWICE DAILY, AT 2 AND 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the epoch-
making Picture Spectacle,
INTOLERANCE.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
IRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First appearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
THE IUVALS.
Popular Prices.
KING’S THEATRE, 51 EL R OCRN E.
Lessees.... Messrs. BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
For the First Time in Australia.
J. & N. T A IT’S NEW COMEDY COMPANY in
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A Play of Mirth and Morals
by Winchell Smith and John E. Hazzard.
Box Plan Allan’s.
HE FINEST SHOW AT ST. HILDA,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, 8.30.
DANDIES.
BEST COMEDIANS. BEST SINGING.
The Prices, like the Dandies, are Popular.
Amusements,
-J- HE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF ANNETTE KELLERMANN
in
A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 3.
WILLIAM FOX presents Shakspeare’s Immortal Love
Storv,
ROMEO AND JULIET.
Plan at Allan’s.
yy XH E N .F, U M HAL L, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, MARCH 3.
MALIK I,
THE COURT MAGICIAN, AND CO.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/- (No Amusement Tax).
Box Plan at Allan’s. Herbert Linden, Rep.
B
1 R C H & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Flavin" Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers. . , ...
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Iheatres of
G.ner.l Film
HE«re™c'. ! A HOTHWEU.' 1 CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
fg
GRAMOPHONE
NEW RECORDS for
MARCH.
Now Ready at all Dealers.
“Gramophone” factories are also busy on munitions. STILL, they send
new lists of new records every month; and SUCH lists!
Here’s a selection from the latest: —
02030. The Trumpeter.
JOHN McCORMACK.
03467. Old Black Joe.
Alma Oluek and Male Chorus.
04147. bet Me Gaze (“Faust”).
Eveline Matthews* John Harrison.
2-3154. Daddie and Babsie (Mono-
logue). Miss Margaret Cooper.
4-2696. A Little World of Love.
4-2746. • Galway by the Sea.
4-2703. The Land of the Long Ago.
(Three new ones by Lieut.
Hubert Eisdeii.)
03448.
03459.
2-052099.
03464.
02626.
2 022001.
M.
'flu* Banks of Allan Water.
Madame KIRK BY jLUNN.
Hindoo Song.
Madame Edna Thornton.
Serenata (Mascagni).
Martinelli (Famous Tenor).
They Call Me Miml (‘‘Ea
Boheme”)
Madame Jeanne Brola.
Once Again.
Walter Hyde (Tenor).
If You Ever Knew (“la
Dame de Pique”).
Vladimir Rosing (Russian
Tenor).
Complete list, instrument catalogue and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
"gramophone”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY
lew
M2P
- "5
jjf-W
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which yon
are interested and full particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence a Tourist Bureau. Brisbane, Q
Business Notices.
FCILE R’S HOTEL,. MELBOURNE
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cola
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music ana
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Boaia
Optional. „ ,
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
f
METAL POLISH
Cleans more brass signs, zinc signs,
brass railings, door knobs and door
plates than all other polishes com-
bined, because it is the quickest and
safest to use. Sold by all Grocery,
Hardware and Drug Stores.
Look for Photo on Can
Lx^vuna
CURES ECZEMA.
Most of the wholesale druggists throughout Aus-
tralia are now stocking Exzerma, and the constant
and increasing demand has resulted in it being easily
obtained from chemists. Few remedies are moie
effective in their treatment. Sufferers from long-
standing Eczema have found that Exzerma has not
only given them relief but effected.a permanent cine,
and they have written gratefully of the benefit re-
ceived from its use. Write S. Fielder, Randwick, for
particulars. '■' s
All Chemists and Druggists,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick.
5/-, 216
f;
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
, WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into ;i motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
k
/
> •" J
Yli
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teefh a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
r
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO..
Manchester. Eng.
fflvlMUvlUh
i i M^nn^n's
BARflTvib
TALCUM PAWDCR
GfBMARO CmMiCAlCft
ft«WA«M,MJ.IISA.
FOR GROWN-UPS
Mennen’s Scented Toilet Talcums can be had in a variety
of Tints and Perfumes
Sen Yang— With a seductive yet illusive odor of the Orient.
Flesh Tint— Exquisitely perfumed with the odor of Roses,
and delicately tinted pink.
Violet— With the dainty scent of the delicate “Violette de
Parme.”
Cream Tint— A “Rachel” powder, cream-colored and
scented with orange blossoms.
There is a Difference in Talcums
When “Mennen” found that the Italian Talc was the finest in
texture that money could buy, he secured the output of the
best mine in Italy. Such is the talc that is being used today in
Borated Talcum Powder
Not only is it the finest in texture, but through Mennen s secret pro-
cess, all impurities and grit have been removed. It cannot scratch
baby’s tender skin. Its borated quality makes it
healing and antiseptic when used for hives, rash
and other skin irritations common to babyhood.
INSIST ON THE GENUINE
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington! N. Z.
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO,
109 Pitt Street
Sydney. N.
i.W.
Trade Mark


HOYT’S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours —12,000 feet of film —8 to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
“The connoisseur is one who knows. The dilet-
tante is one who thinks he knows.” Try Martell’s
and you’ll become a connoisseur ; you will know then
what the best is; and will know you know. When
it comes to ordering brandy again, you will specify
MARTELL’S BRANDY,
and thus enjoy the luxury of flavor, the mental and
physical tonic, that Martell’s ensures. Never travel
without some Martell’s. It is
THE BRANDY OF UNBEATEN QUALITY. [2
$
©
©
WHEN the full story of the excellence of our Motor
Ambulances comes to be written, it will be found that
the Challiner Patent Detachable Rims and Tyres have
contributed —not a little—to their perfect organisation. -
ADOPTED BY THE ALLIED FORCES—you could not have a
better testimony to their value. Fit them to your ear and save
time and annoyance.
CHALLINERS
Patent
THE SHREWSBURY S.T. and
CHALLINER TYRE CO., LTD.,
Ardwick, Manchester & London.
Detachable Rims
Represented by T. A. MEIKLE, Australasian Agents, 556 George Street, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE LAST COURT OF APPEAL.
ARGUMENTATIVE PATRIOT ( to frenzied labor
person ): “But, my dear sir, if the Ger-
mans came here you wouldn’t get any
more high wages!”
THE FRENZIED PERSON ( furiously ): “Oh,
wouldn’t we! What would the A.W.U.
be doing?”
Just because he is an old political hack
John Storey, the new leader of the N. S.
Wales Laborites, announces that “the pre-
servation of the Labor movement depends
upon solidarity.” This “solidarity” has
become a fetich, and the truth about it has
been smothered. It may destroy just as
easily as it. may preserve. When the devils
entered into the swine they all rushed down
a steep place into the sea. It was their
solidarity that was their ruin. If they had
gone the right way they wouldn’t have been
drowned. So the preservation of the Labor
or any other movement depends upon keeping
not solid but sane. Suppose, for a change,
the leaders preach sanity instead of soli-
darity—and sane finance in particular?
What a beautiful row there would be if,
after the shareholders in a public company
had appointed the directors for three years,
those directors so arranged matters that
they should not be shifted till the end of the
war! And what a still more beautiful row
there would be if a meeting of the managers
of every bank, insurance office, newspaper and
other business concern in Australia decided
that, without consulting the employers, 'a
law should be passed declaring that no
manager should be sacked, no matter what
he did, until peace was proclaimed . Yet
that is no more than Hughes and the other
business managers for the Commonwealth
are scheming to secure.
The kind of paragraph that will not be
published in the London nughespapers when
The Three arrive :
The Prime Minister of Australia who visited Eng-
land last year lias returned to attend the Imperial
Conference. Mr. Hughes was then leader of the
Labor party in the Commonwealth. There has been
no election since, but he is now leader of the other
party. He is accompanied by William Irvine and
John Forrest. They were members of the Govern-
ment which was rejected at the last general elec-
tions. They say they represent Australia. Since
the general elections at which they were defeated
Australia has had no chance to say anything except
on one point, and then it voted down all three.
Storey, the new leader of the N.S.W.
Labor party, says that no section of the
community will be permitted to starve while
there is sufficient work in the country to
preserve them in employment. Of course
there is sufficient work in the country.
Every year Australia imports about
£75,000,000 worth of goods, most of which
could and should be produced here. There
are two reasons why they are not produced
here: (1) The party of which Storey is the
leader in N. S. Wales has persistently “sunk
the fiscal issue,” which is to say it hasn’t
put up a Customs barrier against the im-
portation of goods from other countries;
and (2) the same party has encouraged
borrowing and booming, which means a high
cost of living, wherefore the Customs tariff
which would have been hardly sufficient in
auy case has been grotesquely insufficient
to encourage profitable production in Aus-
tralia. Storey’s idea apparently is to bor-
row in order to make work. But this coun-
try doesn’t want work. It wants produc-
tion. The sort of “work” that Storey aims
at merely makes debt. The sort of work he
ought to aim at makes wealth.
“O. Blin” : A recent addition to the curio-
sities of the Federal Parliament is the tall
khaki figure of Burchell,
M.H.R., with a couple of offi-
cer’s stars on his shoulder-
straps. Nobody seems to know
what Burchell has done in a
military way to deserve them;
all that seems certain is
that he was a Whip in the
absorbed Hughes party. Of
course Burchell wasn’t given a
commission as a soldier for his
services as a party politician.
He got his stars, presumably,
either on active service or by
examination at home. Will
somebody in the Senate ask
Pearce, the Minister, for the
papers which will show which
of the two it was?
“E.T.”: Billy Hughes’s day-
light saving—of course it’s a
great reform! Why, it enabled
us to have 15 events at the
Fitzroy (Vic.) “ponies” one day
last week. The starters totalled
120 and the proceedings lasted
five hours by the clock. There
were so many events that one
shrimp of a chap, Perkins, had
time to win six. That’s what /
call statesmanship.
In his policy speech John Storey, leader
°f the N.S.W. Labor party, had something
to ab °ut the referendum:-
The Leg. Council could be done away with in favor
0 f the Swiss system of referendum. In that country
a Bill was discussed in Parliament and was then
sent to the people for three months with experts to
explain it. At the end of that period the people
voted, and if the majority were in favor of it it
became law.
But why send it to the people? Is it to
find out what the majority really think?
If so it can’t be made a party matter. If it
is a party matter, plainly it is absurd to
ask a question upon one point or one bill,
If citizens are to vote as members of one
party or another, then the only sensible
thing to do is to ask: “Which party’s policy
do you support?” If the referendum deal-
ing with a specific question is to have any
value at all the people must vote as indivi-
duals. And that being so, the member of a
party must have complete freedom to advo-
cate “Y'es” or “No” and to vote as he
pleases. The referendum and party are
absolutely hostile in their basic principles.
Therefore Storey had better go back and
consult his colleagues. If they are going to
oust men for expressing their personal
opinion in connection with a referendum,
then their advocacy of the referendum is a
fraud and a confidence trick, and they had
better drop it.
HER OBJECTIVE.
H E: “Hullo, who’s that with the Major?”
SHE: “Oh, that’s Whatshername, you know,
the actress —one of our win-the-war
girls, a splendid worker.”
HE: “Hum! Seems to think the Major's
the war.”
Federal Red Tape intervened in Melbourne
last week, for alleged “reasons of State,” to
prohibit the holding of a public discussion
of the tariff issue. The meeting was to
have been held at the Town Hall, with the
approval of Mayor Hennessy, and had been
arranged mostly because the Priminister had
persistently failed to encourage a deputation
from the Protectionist Association, which
wanted to have a heart-to-heart talk with
him about Australian industries. Appar-
ently Hughes, having promised to open the
question of tariff-revision “at the very earli-
est opportunity,” wants to do all the opening
himself'; and it also looks very much as
though he has private hopes that, by the
time the long-delayed event comes off, the
thing inside may be found to 1 dead.
Part of the curse of the Australian policy
of having an occasional orgy of borrowing
is that, when the jamboree is over and we
have to swear off altogether, we are left
with uncompleted and unproductive works
all over the country. For instance, Warr-
nambool (Vic.) has part of a costly harbor
which, for want of a £12,000 wall, is silting
up, and the money spent is thus being
wasted. Much the same thing is happening
with the backbloeks railway line from Tool-
ondo to Cavendish. It was started from
both ends, and the railheads are now 40
miles apart. Eleven miles will be added to
one end, and then work will stop “for the
present.” So there will be a 29-mile ■ gap
and then a strip of line beginning nowhere
and ending just as vaguely.
Hughes professes to be horrified because
the Federal Labor party refused to join
with him in forming a “National” Govern-
ment. But did Hughes propose a “National”
Government so long as such a thing wasn’t
necessary in order to give himself a job?
When the Labor party came back victorious
in 1914, well after the war had started, did
he then propose a National Government?
And. when, subsequently, Fisher retired and
Hughes became Prime Minister with a solid
majority of the Labor party behind him,
did he then propose a National Government?
In fact, when he occupied the position that
Tudor does now, did he ever do anything
different from what Tudor is doing? If
Hughes had proposed' a National Govern-
ment in the days when it wasn’t necessary
in order to save his own bacon, he would
look a good deal less like a posturing humbug
than he does at this moment.
It has been repeatedly claimed that,
though Yarra (Vic.) objected to conscript
tion, it thoroughly- approved of sending its
best to the Front, and that Richmond, the
big suburb in the electorate, had an unap-
proachable enlistment record. Well, the rest
of Frank Tudor’s constituency seems to
have balanced matters. Figures show that
of the 10 electorates in the Melbourne metro-
politan area the one to record the fewest
absent (mostly soldiers’) votes was Yarra—
-3768 of them. The three divisions to show
the greatest poll of absent votes were Ilenty
(6662), Balaclava and Kooyong. in that
order. Still, taking the actual proportion of
absent (soldiers’) votes to the number of
electors on the roll, Yarra had to resign to
Melbourne Forts its position at the bottom
of the list.
P. M. Bourke, the selected lib-
eral candidate who is to oppose
McGirr at Yass (N.S.W.), “took
no part in the conscription cam-
paign, holding it to be a democratic
principle that every man should
decide for himself.” Bourke ought
to reach a high place as a leader
of men and public opinion. The
Commonwealth has long been wait-
ing for a citizen like this —one of
those bold, resourceful patriots
who never sit on a rail or bolt off
a platform or make excuses, but
firmly conceal their policy, and in
obedience to the sacred principles
of Democracy permit everyone else
do as he likes about the matter.
And what a relief it would he if
at this general election, too, nobody
said a word, if the papers were
dumb and the organisers given the
sack and the public, undistracted,
by the howls of 2764 persons
pledging themselves to accept £OOO
a year, could go quietly to the bal-
lot anu vote for their man without
knowing what he would do besides
take the job ! The time for Bourke
is ripe.
Wherever you scrape the scum off the
Defence Department you find ignorance and
waste and muddle. The other day Team'
said that the Department was going to put
up a plant for making toluene from tar,
because it had been found impossible to per-
suade private distillers to take the work on,
although every effort had been used. In
only one instance, that of the Australian
(Sydney) Gaslight Co., was the installation
of a plant even contemplated, he added. A
day or two later De Meric’s, Ltd., blew in
to say that they were handling over
2,000,000 gallons of coal-tar a year, and
had for 12 months past been supplying
large quantities of toluene to the Russian
Government. Next day it was reported
that the Melbourne Gas Co. had offered to
supply 100,000 gallons of toluene a year to
the Defence Department, but had been told
to run away and not keep bothering.
QUITE IN AGREEMENT.
TENANT: “Oh, but the rent’s simply murder.
You’re asking far too much!”
LANDLORD: “That’s true. I have to ask you
every day.”
CONSCRIPTION OF CATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“That with the object of raising revenue, the Dog
and Goat Act be amended to provide for the registra-
tion of all cats, such taxation to be as follows: —
For male eats, 2s. 6d. per year ; for female cats, ss.
per year. Cats must be registered by September 30
in each year, with 14 days’ grace, and failure to
register will involve a fine not exceeding three
pounds.” —Proposal submitted by A.W.U. Committee
to Labor Conference of N. S. Wales.
Now flares the splendid beacon of reform,
A light to guide us past the rock and shoal,
And after all the passion of the storm
To bring the people gently to their goal.
Now to the P.L.L. we lift our hats
Should it adopt a special tax on cats!
No longer shall the house-roof yowl go free.
The shudders of the wild tormented night
Shall yield some -pence to swell the treasury ;
And the sleek Tom shall bask in all men’s sight,
Glossy with rat and milk, no more afraid,
Because his new receipt is stamped and paid.
Cats have been outlaws till this happy hour,
With neither place nor standing in the State.
Now, having paid .their dues, they rise to power
And stand with curving back and tail elate,
Proud in the. dignity, till now unknown,
Of calling all their velvet paws their own.
Yet is there sadness in their settled smile,
For slaughter rude and red has swept the land.
Sisters and uncles, caught by stealth and guile,
Have died by thousands at the stern command
Of housewives who with scorn refused to pay
Five bob or half a crown to let them stay.
The dogs of war are out. The cats of peace,
Soft shirkers of the dust-heap and the sun,
Must bear the burden as the pains increase
Of battles fought and bitter glory won.
Yes, to the awful music of the time,
Tabby and Tom at last must find a rhyme.
If this resolve should move the P.L.L.,
The cat must pay, though in that word be death,
And several painful sorts of backyard hell
Be nine times used to snatch away her breath.
The cat must pay. No longer may she shirk
The clash with German, Austrian and Turk.
Thus has conscription of a sort arrived.
Thus shall a nation put forth all her power.
Thus has our patriotic zeal contrived
To catch our idle cathood in its flower.
Tremble, ye wandering cows and browsing goats,
For you, like pussy, can record no votes!
N.0.,i.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Exciting Episodes in Early
Australian History.
mii ii i 1 1 1
1A
BUSK
DON
DELANEY
a
w*.
The early history of Australia is
crowded with material for the
novelist. So some of the best of
Australian fiction is that dealing
with the exciting early days.
Here are a few from
DM HIS MAJESTYS
SERVICE
ftY HIS EXCELIENCT3
The Bookstall Series of Australian Novels
THE FICTION SERIES THAT HOLDS THE AUSTRALIAN RECORD.
NINETY NOVELS 1,500,000 already sold.
All 1/- each 1/1 posted.
‘ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE.” B y ROY BRIDGES.
dramatic historical romance of Tasmania, dealing with the troubles
An intensely - , , . ,
of the little settlement when Red Alike Howe and Ins gang were eno . „
community.
“A REBEC OF THE BUSH.” Ev I)0N OELANEI.
An excellent story of the Macquarie regime.
“MR. BARRINGTON.” Bv ®°Y
The story of the adventures of George Barrington, the ‘gentleman
and highwayman, who became a notable figure in the early da.\s
“THE BARB OF AN ARROW.” By ROY
A brightly-written story of some lit tie-known episodes of the \an Diemen s .an
convict days.
the
BRIDGES,
rogue, thief
Y BRIDGES.
AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
BITERS
A
ROBERT
RALEJKI
DO NOT MISS THESE TWO.
“AUSTRALIAN BARKERS AND
BITERS.”
By ROBERT KALE SKI.
The best book on the Australian dog
published.
“THEATRICAL CARICATURES.”
Excellent caricatures by HARRY
JULIUS ; interesting and humorous
anecdotes by Claude McKay.
‘pMJBOM-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street,
. SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
REGAL Monthly “No, 25” Supplement.
G 7344
“SOME” Selection. Part 1 The Regal Orchestra
“SOME” Selection. Part 2 ~ » »
Introducing: Part I.—Dixieland; Every Little While; Dollie. Part 2.—Jingle Johnnie;
Ghosts; We’re All Crazy; Have You S<jen the Ducks?
G 73-15
( King’s Birthday March
{ Lion of St. Marc March
Regimental Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
G73i(i
The Regal Orchestra.
1 The Long Trail
[ Wonga—Oriental
Music to “Ye
Waltz
Intermezzo, from the Incidental
Gods”
0.7347
( Coloney liogey March
) Prairie Flower March
Concertina Solo by Alexander Prince.
07348
j The Ragtime Drummer
j The Mascot of the Troop
Drum Solo, with Band.
(J 7349
J The Ladder of Roses .* Kell Solo, with Orchestra.
| Teddy Tail March •• •• ”
(■7350
j Somewhere a Voice
[ Dearly I Wish You
is Calling Dave Davies, Male Soprano.
Loved Me
G 7351
( Kathleen Mavourneen
| A Farewell
John' Perry, Tenor.
ERIC RANDOLPH; —the Tenor with the Throat of Gold.
G 7353
Little Grey Home In the West Krlc Randolph, 1 enor.
Where My Caravan Has Rested •• >< >•
G 7353
j Ijove’s (Harden of Roses lOric Randolph, leuor.
I My Sweetheart when a Boy •• U
G 7354
1 Little Brown Jug
| The Village Blacksmith
.T. H. Scotland. Bass.
G 7355
( On His First Day Home on Leave Jack Norworth, Comedian.
{ Keep Your Head Down •• ” ”
G735G
y Keep Your Face to the Sunshine.
1 JLovelijfht
<i. H. Elliott. The Chocolate Colored Coon.
G 7357
j Cockney. Bill of London Town
j Hey Diddle-dlddle
Harry Champion, Comedian.
m
G 7858
j Ragging tlie Old Church Bells Harry Hudson and Stanley Ivirlvby.
I Somebody Would Shout Out Shop ?. »*
07359
s The
i Wild
Jerry-Builder
Humorous
Bucks ~
Descriptive Sketch by Miss Buena Bent and Frank Leo.
G 7360
1 No One but Your Dear Old Dad Manuel Romain, Counter-tenor.
| The Curse of an Aching Heart •> » ”
<*7361
(Oh, Joe, With Your Ficldle and Your Bow Trevor and Thompson, Comedians.
( She Wants to Marry Me »» *> ’’ ”
G 7362
) Yaaka Hula Hickey Hula ...
( Hello, Hawaii, How are You?
Stanley Kirkby, Baritone.
SPECIAL AUSTRALASIAN ISSUE.
G6OlB
f Sing Us a Song of Australia Stanley Kirkb.v, Baritone.
I My Life Belongs to Old John Bull » ” ”
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Halting House, Kawson Place.
MELUOCKNE, VIC. —Hinsdale’s Proprietary, JLtd., 2C9 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street,
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z. —Webiey Sons anti Gofton, Ltd., 213 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. J
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
F ull-sized Millimeter
Goodrich Tyres are now made FULL-SIZE,D
regardless of Trade Custom.
THIS announcement is not intended to draw invidious
comparisons.
No doubt the first European Makers, who set the
present millimeter standards of Tyre Sizes, did so with
intention to give the Public Tyres (of “Necessity” Size)
at the lowest prices they could then afford to offer them.
When the Goodrich Company started manufacturing
Millimeter Tyres, it felt that it must conform to existing
standards of Size, or lose money through building its
Tyres up to the Specified Measurements demanded by
the SIZES branded thereon.
So, for a long time, the Goodrich Company, like all
other Millimeter Tyre Manufacturers, built and sold
Under-Sized Tyres.
It is not through any claim for superior honesty that
the Goodrich Company now announces the bringing of
their Goodrich Tyre Sizes up to the actual Millimeter
Measurements, by which such Sizes are denominated.
Careful observation has convinced them that Auto-
mobile Owners are losing much of the Comfort they might
have (when riding in the same Cars) through the
excessive Vibration that Under-Sized Tyres inevitably
transmit from the Road.
Such excessive VIBRATION not only robs Motoring
of much of “that Soaring Luxury of Motion” which it
could be. and can be. but also Wears-out the Mechanism
of the Car, and the Tyres themselves, prematurely.
* *
SO this, then, is the chief reason why the Goodrict
Companv' has abandoned the making of “regular’
(or UNDER-SIZED) Millimeter Tyres in favor of
Full-Sized Tyres only.
The reduction in profit, on each Tyre (which naturally
results from selling Full-Sized Tyres at the same price
as most other makes of regular, or Under-Sized, Tyres),
is accepted.
gh
BUT, in accepting the lesser profit, per Tyre, the
Goodrich Company does so in the belief that a
great increase in volume of Sales will compensate
for this, when the Public realizes what an enormous
DIFFERENCE in Motoring ComfoTt, the use of Good-
rich Full-Sized Millimeter Tyres will bring.
% * *
SINCE the current shortages (in Millimeter Tyre
cross-section Diameter ) result entirely in .Shortage
of Air Capacity, and since it is the Compressed Air
which gives necessary resilience to Pneumatic Tyres, the
above loss of Air Capacity is as vital to a Tyre (and
Car) as the loss of Blood,‘in corresponding ratio to bulk
of the whole body would be to a human being.
Motorists wht) will put the same amount of uncom-
pressed Air into Full-Sized Goodrich Tyres as they must
now properly use in other Millimeter ( Under-Sized )
Tyres, will find this: —
They will find the Full-Sized Goodrich Tyres will
carry 'the same Carload with no larger flattened Tyre
surface, though the greater Air-Space results in a lower
Air-pressure within the Tyre.
i'fi ❖ *s*
THIS lowered Air-pressure not only makes Motoring
more luxuriously comfortable, and the Car last
longer, but. through the larger cross-section
Diameter' of Goodrich Full-Sized Millimeter Tyres, it
does no damage to the latter.
And the Mileage of these Goodrich Full-Sized Tyres
will be found even greater than that of “regular” Milli-
meter ( Under-Sized ) Tyres, which must carry the higher
(excessive) Air-pressure their shortage of Air-capacity
makes necessary.
Goodrich FUEL-SIZED Tyres are sold at prices that
compare favorably with all other Millimeter Tyres of
same quality, while practically all of these others will be
found UNDER-SIZED, on measurement.
13 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
145 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
300 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
DUVAL (Si CO.
CORNELL -LTD., ADELAIDE.
A. C. MacCALLUM, PERTH.
R. NETTLEFOLD, HOBART.


Uncle Sam’s war craft still hangs in the
wind of IT tin frightful ness. The helmsman
needs inspiring to the tack of rightfulness
by that spirit of right. King George IY. top-
notch Scotch. — Advt.
It is obvious to all tyre manufacturers that many
tyres are relegated to the scrap-heap long before their
usefulness is over. .
Often a repair, an inner liner or a retread will
put a tyre in a condition which will permit an in-
creased mileage more than justifying its cost. Time
was when the tyre repairman took long chances —
inadvisable repairs were made —but the dependable
vulcanizer to-day recommends only such work as he
believes will make for a saving to the motorist.
Before discarding an old tyre it is well to show
it to a competent repairman. He will generally be
able to ascertain whether the additional mileage
expected will warrant the expenditure involved. If
a repair is inadvisable he will not recommend it,
for every job of that character means a dissatisfied
customer.
A tyre that has given good service but has its
fabric weakened in places may be reinforced by the
application of an inside tyre protector. For some
time makers have specialised in the production of
a tyre protector of this kind, and have solved the
problem for many a motorist who has wondered
whether he should scrap the old tyre' or spend some
money in an attempt to coax more miles from it.
In the Goodyear Tyre Protector are four plies of
high-grade fabric, stepped down to a feather edge,
insuring an even surface, which precludes all danger
of inner tube-pinching in the cover. After the tyre
has attained its full mileage and is finally removed
the Goodyear protector may be taken out and fitted
in another tyre. The protector fitted properly be-
comes a part of the tyre and gives the cover extra
life and durability.
If the tread on your tyre is worn down, but the
tyre otherwise in fair condition, several thousand
miles of service may be obtained by having it
retreaded. In doing this the repairman tears the
old tyre down to the fabric and builds it up in the
same manner as in making a new tyre.
There are other ways in which tyres apparently
worn out can be made to render much greater mile-
age. Before discarding them be sure to look them
over carefully. A simple repair or a Goodyear
Accessory mar add a few extra thousands to their
mileage.—Anvr.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
A representative of
Turnbull & Jones Ltd., New Zealand,
Patentees and Makers of Totalisator,
will arrive in Sydney, on March 6, with SAMPLE MACHINES
embodying latest improvements.
Racing Clubs are advised that representative will supply full information
regarding Totalisator and the system of operation.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Ihe Newmarket on Saturday. Nothing
lias occurred to make this page alter its opinion that
Balarang, given a fair start, will be up in the fight-
ing line when the crowd begins to get the hang of
what is likely to happen. On weight and perform-
ance Balarang looks as good a thing as was ever
saddled for the straight six. He is a rare good horse
—and is well. But as good horses and good things
often go down like burst aeroplanes, the possi-
bilities of the punter acquiring a thrill are always
available for cash or on the nod. On Monday
Balarang won the Futurity Stakes well with 9st. 51b.
aboard. Woorak, with lOst. 51b., was with him near
the bend, and it was a fair race home, with Balarang
leaving’ the little flier at the finish. For Saturday
Woorak goes up 31b., and Balarang comes down 71li.
As between this pair the handicap looks a bit off the
balance.
The success of La Steppe in the Hawks-
bum Handicap at Caulfield on Monday was not ex-
pected by people on the Sydney side of the Murray.
Since the day La Steppe was pulled out of the Rand-
wick Carrington Stakes at the last moment she has
had a couple of runs, but has made a poor showing. O'n
Monday, ridden by the Sydney jockey A. Wood, she
started at 12 to 1, and, leading practically all the
way, won by three-quarters of a length in lmin.
I4see. La Steppe.has been a payable proposition,
having won races in Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne.
But it is not likely that the ante-post bettors who
lost their money on the mare at Randwick recovered
any of it on Monday.
“Musketoon” : If I had the good fortune
to draw Headwind in Tatt.’s on the Newmarket I’d
stand on it. Headwind in the Oakleigh Plate beat
everything else but Woorak, and although the latter
won like a real racehorse, Headwind meets him on
161 b. better terms in the scamper down the Flcm-
ington straight next Saturday. That 161 b. ought to
be handy at the finish.
Melbourne punters overlooked a trim
little geegee in the rush to do business with Ike
over the Alma Stakes. All the money seemed to be
for Lady Comely, and another Sydneysider, Lady
Eagle, went out at 20 to 1. When'the'stay-at-home
punters saw what had happened and looked at the
price they nearly fell dead, for Lady Eagle won
easily. This filly, trained by Booth at Rosehill, won
there from a good field on January 13, and quite a
lot of people were waiting to see her do something
of the sort again. Booth has been extraordinarily
successful with youngsters this last couple of years,
but he doesn’t often hear Macshortodds offering 20’s
about one of his juveniles.
Lady Isolt. the marc that landed the
Moorefield (Sydney) February Handicap on Monday,
has a habit of winning with a late run. She has
been three times successful in the last few months,
two event- being won by a head and the other by
a. neck. With only 150yds. to go Monday’s race
looked, a sure thing for the odds-on favorite, Charlev-
ville; but the lady, getting a run oh the outside,
hit the front just in time. She is the property of
John McDonald, was bred by him at Mungie Bundie,
and is by the A.JrO. Derby winner Mountain King
from that fine Maoriland mare, Isolt.
Tatyoon, the two-year-old that secured
the Moorefield Nursery Handicap, has now won two
races, and on both occasions started at a shade of
odds on. This colt will do well in far better com-
pany than he has encountered up to date. He is
by Blankney 11., from Fedan, and in both winning
efforts was ridden by McLachlan. *
It keeps on happening. At Moorefield
(N.S.W.) on Monday four out of six races were
won bv nags burdened with mannikins for whom
“apprentice allowances” were claimed. *
Henry Carey Dangar, one of the oldest
members oi the A.J.C., has resigned from the com-
mittee alter a service of 46 years, during 12 oi
which he was chairman. Born in 1830, he is there-
fore in his 87th year. He is the last survivor of the
committee of 1870 ; at any rate, of the nine members
six are known to be dead, and the others have not
been heard of for many year*
“Mac Tartan” : No. Lord (Jilin’s Daughter
was not imported. She was bred at Parkes (N.S.M.)
by Francis Foy, being, by Lochicl out of Farthingale
(imp.) by Minting out of Gale. “Sunny” Foy, as
he is more familiarly known to sporting men in
Sydney and Melbourne, personally directed the pre-
paration of both Playaway and the Lord s daughter
for the Newmarket and Australian Cup of ’O5. He
was on hand at Randwick on galloping mornings and
ordered the physic; and Johnny Alsopp, in whose,
stables the mokes were quartered, spent most of
his afternoons, prior to departure for Melbourne to
annex the double, in Foy’s drapery emporium. The
talk, I might add, was about nags—not rags.
John McFhail, for many years supervisor
of “the books” on Victorian racecourses —his job was
to see that only licensed odds-merchants had access to
the paddock, and that all who wanted to do business
weighed in with their licensing fees first —has retired.
The job is now in the hands of his son. He’s John,
too.
“Carfax” : ‘ The Newcastle Racing Club
is going to run the totalisator on dollar principles—
which can be taken as fairly good evidence of the
kind of business it is after, and where the big
money is to go. The idea that an owner who wants
to invest £5O will approach the machinery and get
200 tickets rung up on his nag is beautiful. There
is not a ss. machine in all Maoriland, and very few
that take 10s. ; but there the clubs don't want the
money to go to Israel.
Walter Raynor and his son had mounts
in a race at Taranaki (M.L.) recently. In cricket,
tennis and golf something of the sort happens occa-
sionally, but jockeys are generally out of the saddle
long before the family gets a leg up.
“Frigid Feet”: The A.J.C. committee,
after wrestling with the problem of how to build a
tote on the flat at Randwick without obstructing the
vision of the man with a spy-glass on the stand, has
decided to try a long, low building, partly under-
ground. My suggestion is that the committee should
condescend to take the Western Front as a pattern
and construct a system of trenches and dugouts.
Who knows if some poor, lone slacker might not
thus acquire a taste for trench life and rush ( off
to reinforce Billjim ?
Adelaide, which refuses to have adult
cricket in war-time, has just seen the advantage of
having its turf wickets used and at the same time
training a fresh set of cricketers for the days after
the war. The city and suburban ovals —every recre-
ation-ground is an, “oval” in S. Aus. —are to be at
the disposal of the high schools for a regular round
of matches, and a whole host
of boys will get used to turf
who otherwise might never
play on it. Now the S.A.
Football League has decided
that its abstention from
matches shall last as long as
the war does; so some simi-
lar plan for boys is likely to
be tried this winter in that
game, too.
LE S. DAVIS. quarter-
mile hurdle champion.
“South Aus”: Do you remember our old
friend the corpulent bookie who had his daily stand
in front of the Clarence •Hotel in Adelaide? I have
a vision of him dressed in the loudest checks, with
a huge-link watehchain and an unlit cigar, booking
our minor bets as if they were major ones and
raking in the shekels. I wish you could see the
much-thinner individual sitting now at the end of
the trench, wearing a sheepskin jacket under which
is a tunic and cardigan, with a balaklava that leaves
exposed a face with several days’ growth of bristles
under a steel helmet. His borrowed pair of trousers
is skin tight and ripping at the seams, and his legs
are encased in sandbags over the putties. He
usually tops off with a huge muffler and looks like
a. big, ungainly bear. To see him thus arrayed
breaking for cover is a sight for the gods and
worth the journey. He is the same old sport and
hopes to get back to collect what’s left of your
sugar after the war.
•X- * * *
At the Kyneton (Vie.) race meeting re-
cently a horse named Windlestam tried to square
accounts over some real or fancied wrong. It had
run third in the handicap, ridden by Wallace McLeod.
When, after changing his clothes,' McLeod returned
to the saddling-paddock the horse rushed him open-
mouthed and started worrying him after the manner
of a terrier with a rat. The result was a visit by
McLeod to the local hospital with a badlv-mauled
arm. This horse is outlawed by the V.R.C. on metro-
politan courses for unruly behavior at the starting-
gate.
Ocean Bar. a chestnut pony gelding by
Little Gem from Speculation, had a day out at Parkes
(N.S.W.) .pony and trottinv meeting recently. On
the morning of the races Billy Umolebv drove the
midget in a sulky from Peak Hill, and won all
three pony races. After the meeting the little ’un
trotted back to Peak Hill. Last week the owner
tried to repeat the performance at Forbes, but Ocean
Bar, evidently being out of sorts, omitted to get a
place.
Died at North Sydney a few days ago,
Frank Punch, aged 05. Frank was a brother of Jim,
of aquatic note in the ’so’s and early '6o’s, and was
usually coxswain, as a kid, to Jim when he and the
late Tom McGrath rowed in pairs at Sydney Harbor
regattas. Later the brothers were prominent backers
of champions.
Don .T. Fleming, accidentally killed at
Yarrawonga (Vic.) recently, was a smart pro. ped.,
who two years ago pulled off a big double—Stawell
Easter Gift (120vds. in 11 9-rOsec.) and Mary-
borough Sheffield Handicap (1261yds. in 11 2-ssec.).
Carrying loaded firearms in a vehicle caused the
finbh.
G. E. Hansel’s death from meningitis in
England rubbed off the roll the most promising-
amateur athlete the Ma State has known in recent
years. After Hansel’s long stride began to over-
take school championships in 1916 he justified the
opinion of the prophet- by winning the N.S.W.
100yds. championship in 1915, and when the State
titles were suspended last season he took the metro-
politan title . for 100yds. . (10 2-ssec.) and 220vds.
(23 2-ssec.), and filled second place in the hop,
step and jump (41ft. lljin.). Four years ago
Hansel showed fine form at swimming; but his possi-
bilities as an athlete interested him less than his
engineering studies. He tasted only 20 years of
sunshine.
Killed in France on January 28, Sergeant
J. Pugh, one of Tassy’s best footballers, who for a
couple of seasons captained the City Club, Launces-
ton. Several times he represented the North, in
North and South matches. As a runner, Pugh was
one of the few men in Tassy who could whirl himself
ova- 130yds. in 13sec.
•K Kr * *
Died last week, after a long struggle,
Walter Denyer, one of the best-known of Australian
bowlers. He had travelled the world playing the
game of which he had made himself a master, and
knew the best greens of Scotland almost as well as
those of Australia. He was champion and for long
president of the Warringah (N.S.W.) Club, a fre-
quent inter-Stater, and a member of the team which
toured Britain a few years ago. He was a genial
companion and a generous opponent, and many
friends in five continents will be sorry he has gone.
Killed in a motor accident, Harry Beckett,
many years head man at Dalgety’s Wharf. He came
to Australia about 40 years ago, a lad in his teens.
Soon making his way as an amateur boxer, he
defeated the redoubtable Colonel llyrie for the
amateur championship. In later years he frequently
acted as referee at boxing matches; and he owned
some light-harness trotting horses. The accident
which ended in his djjath occurred near Rooty Hill
while he was driving to Hazelbrook on a week-end
visit to his family.
When the officials of the Queensland Ama-
teur Athletic Assoc, met recently to prepare the
annual report they found that 75 per cent, of the
active members had enlisted. So many of the senior
boys had entered for the Marathon that three of the
clubs had to drop out. Sherwood discovered that it
was unable to produce a member not in khaki.
Meantime two days a week the race-trams are filled
by the push that are not too proud to let the other
chap fight for them.
Prahran first-grader Blackie "is the most
destructive bowler in Vie. cricket nowadays. In
the last round against Essendon, he took 15 wickets
for 102 runs, an effort not surpassed by a dozen
tnjndlers in a generation. Blackie has already
taken 50 wickets this season.
* * * *
Jack Scott’s 11 wickets for 61 for Peter-
sham against Balmain on Saturday is the best aver-
age in Sydney premiership cricket this season.
W. S. Dight (W. Subs.) had the limelight previously
with 12 for 127. Another useful effort was put
up by S. G. Freeman (Sydney), who knocked over
7 for 62 in ■ Gordon’s first innings, and then top-
scored with 38 not out. Freeman’s labors lifted his
club alongside Paddington at the top of the pre-
miership ladder.
The swim “through Adelaide” is now an
annual. It is held in the Torrens Lake, and up-
stream now, which is for the better, as there is no
current worth mentioning, and the lake gives plenty
of room for the many starters and narrows only when
they are well strung out. The old absurdly long
starts are being cut down, but are still ample for a
mere mile and 300 yards. A boy barely 15, Good-
enough, did it in 30min. 37sec., and naturally a
7min. handicap landed him first. Magor, whose time,
26min. 9sec., was the fastest by over two minutes,
finished a moderate second.
Jack Coyne, who came from where the
dollars blossom to assault Australian welter-weights
and got his innards tangled up with ice-cream,
commenced to distribute devastation by operating
on Tommy Uren at Sydney Stadium on Saturday.
But exactly half a second after John started Thomas
Levan to hit him violently on the ear. Then he
punched him 17 times on the nose and, warming up,
smote him with everything’ available except the
referee. What Coyne was brought to Sydney for
Heaven only knows, but by the time the eighth
round had commenced the police ordered him to be
taken off, whereupon the massacre was suspended
and the pieces taken away to be patched up. John
will live the rest of his life free from the cares
of minding a championship.
Gable messages published last week state
that there are “complications” in New York about
Darcy’s first fight (March 3), as both Dillon and
McCoy claim the privilege of handing him one.
Previously it was alleged that McCoy had scratched
himself on account of a prior engagement. All this
suggests that matters are somewhat mixed with
Darcy, and possibly implies that after consideration
of their respective wallops he is more anxious to
commence on the third-rater than on the more formid-
able Dillon. N’York papers to hand by the last mail
show that the Yanks had already noticed that the
young man was more inclined to talk about his
anxiety to make money than to actually start doing
it —except in vaudeville. ’They all get that way.
Yet if Darcy goes to the post fit and well he i>
good enough to make the best of them hurry up.
After a scrap with Billy Miske at Brook-
lyn (U.S.A.) the other day, George Brown, the
knock-’em-steef gentleman who was in Australia last
year, explained that Miske would certainly beat
Darcy. Brown’s notion was that Miske gave hint
a rougher time than the Australian did in Sydney.
Of course Brown has to keep his stocks up, but
to take a line through Brown for the purpose ot
estimating Darcy’s capacity for hurting someone
else would be a waste of time. The Yank’s two
fights with Darcy were among the most dreary seen
at the Kushcutter’s Bay Stadium. At no stage
either night did he look like a winner. Brown is
remembered as a rusher and hanger-on. with a slow,
deliberate wallop, who had no possible chance with
Darcy. He got more money in Australia than he
deserved. Still, Miske might make Darcy fed
sorry. He weighs 12st. 51b. ringside.
Ferdnand Quendreux took part in a whole-
sale distribution of bash at Brisbane on Saturday.
Llew Edwards supervised the doling out. The affair
was alleged to be for the lightweight championship
of Australia, but it didn’t matter much. Quen-
dreux’s only chance was to hand over a wallop
sufficiently violent to out the Welshman; but he just
had no time on account of being kept busy absorbing
straight lefts, right hooks, jabs, jolts and every other
variety of bother. In one quiet round Llewellyn
connected 109 times. Quendreux had quite a night
of it. He finished up with both eyes snowed under,
chips out of one cheek and either lip, a nose merged
into the rest, of his dial, and the essentials of seven-
ache in the bingey. Apart from that, he was all
right.
“Bad Australian”: We sent a crowd of
footballers across front Buenos Aires to Santiago de
Chile last week, and the Chilians gave them a soul-
satisfying shake-up and a banquet and walk-round
which is regarded as the correct thing on these occa-
sions on the Pacific Slope. During the short interval
between the banquet and the walk-about, some kindly
soul suggested that the cup captured by the victors
should be handed to the vanquished in memory of
an unusually friendly time. The proposition was
carried unanimously, and the cup was solemnly pre-
sented and as solemnly accepted, and when our boys
reached Mendoza, still suffering from the effects of
Chilian hospitality, and franctieally waved the cup
in the faces of the assembled multitude, the whole
pueblo arose as one man and called the name of Chile
blessed. Yes, there is a difference between the
Anglo-Saxon and the Latin temperaments.
* # * *
“Nick Bottom”: I hate to get into a
tangle with a fellow angler, but 1 must contradict
the statement of “R.S.” (B. 15/2/’l7) that “jag-
ging” is a worse crime than either fish-poisoning or
dynamiting. Certainly jagging is not sport, and the
liun that practices it should be jugged, but for
wanton slaughter it cannot be compared to the other
aforementioned crimes. Unless a fish is spiked
sufficiently deep for the hook to hold until he is
landed, a jagged fish will, in nine cases out of 10,
recover. It takes more fo kill a fish than most
people imagine. I have had years of experience in
fishing with net and line, and have caught fish that
had been hit with the propeller of a steamer or
snapped by other big fish and yet had recovered, the
scars on head or back being the only visible signs of
the episode. At its worst, jagging would destroy about
a dozen matured fish in a day (those that had been
disembowelled in the process), but dynamite or
poison accounts for hundreds every pop, the small
fry suffering as badlv as their grown-up relations.
Maoriland’s motor-cyclist I*. Coleman
whizzed over eight miles of grass at Ashhurst recently
in 6min. 58scc. —alleged to be a world's record.
The first soldier in the A.I.F. to win the
D.O.M. in France seems to have been Pri-
vate Clarence It. Neville, of Brighton Beach
(Vic.). Ills little bit was done at Bois
Grenier on the night of May 5, 1916, when
the linn, under cover of a .fierce strafe, was
raiding the Second Brigade’s trenches.
Neville carried despatches over a mile of
bullet-sown ground and returned under the
same fire.
FAVORITES ALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Past me they gallop at Memory’s call—
Good ones and game ones and favorites all.
Loyal Heart first, the old fleabitten grey ;
Carried me ninety-five miles in the day ;
Once did his fifty before we had lunch ;
Three-quarter Arab and best of the bunch;
. Deep-ribbed, iron-limbed, all muscle and power,
Walking bis level six miles in the hour !
Ardath, the outlaw, rich bay with a streak,
And a different buck for each day of the week ;
If he chanced not to throw you he’d carry you far,
Going out with the dawn wind and home with the
star ;
To dance into town on his back was a pride;
A devil he was, but he taught me to ride!
Wavelet, the wilful, a hot-headed brown,
A fierce rushing juniper you couldn’t bring down.
Sired by old Swordfish of steeplechase fame;
The sporting South-East will remember his name!
I’ve ridden her out from the town to the run
Over five solid sheep-gates, and never touched one.
She was always afoam and a lather of sweat,
But she stayed like a good one. I dream of her yet.
There was Boona, the pony, a wild little rip,
Light .fleshed and narrow and ragged of hip,
A child of the Lachlan, as shy as a hawk,
With an easy-chair canter and quick-stepping walk,
A devil to mount, and a terror to shoe,
But game as a pebble to carry you through.
Memento, the race mare ; I bought her to win
The Bracelet at Forbes, but was duly let in,
For a kick on the stifle disordered the plan
And the Bracelet was won by some luckier man.
Yet the brown was a flier (although she was mine!)
And if Fate is your foeman what use to repine!
Goodbye was another that fortune forsook,
A raking big chestnut that rode like a book,
lie could race like a river and jump like a bird,
But learned the bad habit of coming in third.
The day that I sold him he started to go
And won his first race like a shaft from a bow !
And dear Drop-the-Flag, just a thoroughbred weed,
Sold out of her stable as lacking in speed,
A fidgettv. flighty and feather-brained mare,
With her feet on hot bricks and her head in the air,
Vet kind as a woman and easy to guide—
A thing that a child or a parson could ride.
You could race her all day if your fancy desired ;
She was dancing at night undismayed and untired ;
A\ hich merely repeats what a sportsman knows well,
That ; n man or in horse it is blood that will tell!
TLAND.
WILL OGILVIE.


ARE YOU ABLE TO PROPERLY
df
DEFEND YOURSELF?>
Suppose, for instance, some fellow insulted you, what would be your
position ?
Would you have to suffer such an insult to so unavenged, and so lose your
~• niiin the eves of vour fellows —or would 3oil be
able to C deliver a sound' thrashing to the man who endeavors to belittle you
in the eyes of your fellow men :
There are times in every
himself. Are you prepared
teach you the noble art of
man's life when he has occasion to defend
for such emergencies? Then why not let me
self-defence ?
I Teach Boxing by Post.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily
understood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates
every serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experi-
ence and keen observation of the moves of the
world’s best boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your
natural ability—of making good use of the means
Nature gave you for protecting yourself. You will
surely be fair to yourself and learn Scientific Boxing.
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “Scien-
tific Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my
methods, terms, etc. Send three penny stamps for
postage, -lust write your name and address across
this advt. and send it to me. I will know what
you mean.
REG. L.
(“Snowy”)
BAKER
585 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
Smoke a LLOYD’S
(London) BRIAR PIPE
AXD GET THE UTMOST ENJOYMENT
FROM YOUR FAVORITE TOBACCO.
The mounts are of Hall-marked Silver, and
each pipe is guaranteed not to crack or burn
within a reasonable time. They are cool
smoking pipes, and are exceptional value.
4/6
Each.
48 Different Shapes
ALL ONE PRICE.
4/6
Each.
No. 4
No. 9
"10. 10
No. 3
WRITE FOR. A COPY OF MY ILLUS-
TRATED CATALOG OF PIPES, TOBACCO,
CIGARS, ETC.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
.vSfc
« \
EVERY DAY FILL UP ON
***uwmu u*
SHELL
BENZINE
L Mr hills
everywhere.
*OUTE
nOTRj,
*o||*
fancy
hdf
Find the Wonder Places
—the beauty spots that lie off the
beaten track 1 Go touring on
Sndirn
The Motorcycle of Supreme Comfort
Catalogue " D ” with Pleasure,
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty.
Ltd.
109-113 Russell St., Melbourne.
»ATO*»
• OJ»
Tenders.
MACHINERY. "LANZ” SUPERHEATED STEAM ENGINE-Condensinfc Type.
TENDERS will be received up to Monday, 16th April, 1917, for the purchase of a new “Lanz'’ patent
cross compound jet condensing superheated steam locomobile for burning low-grade fuel —may be
used for belt drive or direct coupling. The locomobile is capable of developing—
-115 B.H.P. as a normal economical load, 140 B.H.P. continuous maximum load,
160 B.H.P. temporary maximum overload,
when running at 200 r.p.in., exhausting into condenser, and with 1701 b. per square inch pressure at
engine stop valve.
Superheater, feed water heater, jet condenser, air pump, boiler feed p imp and all accessories for com-
pleting erection are supplied. The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
For further details apply to: — “SUPERHEATER,” c/o Oordon & Ootch, .Melbourne..
Business Announcements.
Begin Right at the Feet.
There’s pleasure in being and feeling well
dressed. Begin right—at the feet. You
will have distinctive and correctly-fitting
footwear if you wear RIGNEY SHOES.
The illustration shows a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, with latest perforations. A high-
grade. made-to-order style.
Price '3O/-
Also in Black and Tan Velour Calf.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOG.
gh
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
I
a
A
\
a
>
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
I
m
WL
m
It
&
WMiMIHD
IP
I
□
Si
lip
\vtt* *\V,
TTumnrnnirm
A Great Boot for All-
Round Country Wear
For all-round use in the Country, our Kip Watertight
is a Boot that cannot fail to give satisfaction.
Stoutly made in the Best Watertight Kip Leather,
with Sprigged Sole and Wide Securely Sewn Tongue,
this Boot will give many times your money’s worth
in Solid Service,
No man engaged in Farm W'ork, Mining or any avoca-
tion which necessitates the use of Footwear possessing
real stamina should be without a pair.
Post Your Order- We Pay Freight.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Flinders Street Melbourne


Now is the time to buy
THE 3 ALL-BRITISH
ONOTO PEN!
dfg
BRITAIN
leads in
Fountain
P ns The
Pen that
does not
leak, that
fills itself
tud cleans
in fil
nij. is Bri
lish made
it i s t li e
Onoto — the
pen that tie
ver scratches
or splutters
that writes
readily and
smooth 1 y.
and isalways
ready to
write. Getan
Onoto now.
It is the best
pen made in
Britain o r
an ywh ere
throughout
the world,
insist on the
Onoto
Self-Filling • ‘Dtob**
Safety Fountain A ■
PtiiCE, 14i6. :i it cl upwards of all
Stationers. Jewellers and Stores
Manufacturers—Thomas dk la Run
& Co LTD.,Bunhill Row, London, E C.
Managing Agents—Norman Baker &
LonghursK York Street, Sydney
Ask for Onoto Ink the best for all Pens
Grey Hair —Home
Remedy.
An old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But. on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has only
to get from the. chemist two ounces of con-
centrate of tammalite and mix it with three
ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair with
a small sponge for a few nights and the
greyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula. — Advt. [2
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and u|t
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
CHRISTIE 3
JSREOAUSt f
TWO
L/TJES
5 1# 5
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
lilt
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
1C /iONTER S T NEWCASTLE
/ V
m
e£-:
D Li
LLUX®
D
\&rdleys
Shaving Stick
The Stickm the Glass Case
Have
YOU
Tried
It?
It Represents the Last Word
in scientific soap making. The
free, ointment-like lather makes
the daily shave a mere incident.
It softens the beard and lubricates
the razor, and actually soothes
the skin.
British Soap Made by
i
B NEW BOND STREET, LONDON.
BosfocA
BOOTS are the smart wear for the season
-—Dame Fashion has east that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
in the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
picnics and excursions in the most blazing
weather.
BostocU No.
P 6141
m
None genuine
unless stamped
“Rostock.”
832
A charming selection of Bostock shoes
always on view at all leading stores.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Dry Clean your White 8 Colored Footwear.
Ladies, dry-clean your canvas and suede shoes and your cloth-topped boots with
BOSTOCK’S DRY CLEANER.
It is easy, quick, lasting and satisfactory.
Colors: White, Black, Brown Champagne, Buff, Light and Dark Grey, and Khaki.
PRICE 6d.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
QtJ.CoUis Brownes
CWorodyw
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE I'OR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
anil in the Cough of BRONCHITIS anil
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, SJ-.
Made in England. .
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Syd-
ney), property auctioneers, valuators, etc.: —-
Deficit
(Goodwill
In not rec-
Writ- Redufi- koned
ten tion of an
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit. Asset).
Dec., ’OB. .£3005 5 p.c. =£lsoo £1505 £36,324
June,’o9.. 2762 5 „ „ 1500 1262 35,062
Dec.,’o9.. 3411 5 „ „ 1500 1911 33,151
June,’lo.. 5060 6 ~ „ 1800 3260 29,891
Dec.,’lo.. 4838 6 „ „ 1800 —■ 3038 26,853
June,’ll.. 5650 7 ~ „ 2100 3550 23,303
Dec.,’ll.. 5696 7 „ „ 2100 3596 19,707
June,’l2.. 5612 7 ~ „ 2100 3512 16,195
Dec.,’l2.. 6737 7 „ „ 2100 4637 11,558
June,’l3.. 5240 7 „ „ 2100 3140- 8,418
Dec.,’l3.. 6784 7 „ „ 2100 4684 3,734
To Re-
Res. serves.
June,’l4.. 7031 7 „ „ 2100 4931 1,197
Dec.,’l4.. 3756 7 „ ~ 2100 1656 2,853
June,’ls.. 5871 7 ~ „ 2100 £1352 2419 5,272
Dec.,’ls.. 3904 7 ~ „ 2100 876 928 6,200
June,’l6.. 3468 7 „ „ 2100 7508
Dec.,’l6.. 3649 7 .. ~ 2100 1549 1,549
The amounts shown as written off have been
put to a contingency account; and the total
still appears on the balance-sheet, “Contin-
gency Fund, £9796.” Ordinarily a contin-
gency account isn’t reckoned among the
reserves. It is something which a manage-
ment is able to spare and whidh it pushes
up its sleeve for use at its own convenience.
However, if depreciations have been pro-
vided for otherwise, the management has
every right to show the Contingency Fund
as a reserve ; and then the position for the
past couple of years is as follows: —
Losses
Written
Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
June, ’l5 .. £5OlB £2lOO £6,624
Dec., ’l5 . . 3904 2100 8,428
June, ’l6 .. 4453 2100 £984 9,797
Dec.. ’l6 . . 3649 2100 11,346
Things are very different from what they
were at the height of Holman’s borrowing
boom : and they are going to continue differ-
ent. “Easy come, easy go,” is just about as
big a truth as was ever put into four words.
A spendthrift son, desperately anxious to
make friends, gets control of the old man’s
cheque-book ; and he won’t mind much what
he pays for things. That is what has hap-
pened in N. S. Wales; and It. and W. have
been enjoying the commissions on the in-
flated prices which have prevailed.* Now the
bank has gone on strike ; and poor old dad
has to pay interest on an overdraft; and all
the beautiful commissions on the bogus values
are over for the time being. Worse, while
dad is wiping off the overdraft he won’t be
inclined to pay even ordinary prices for pro-
perty ; and It. and W.'s income may there-
fore be less even than normal.
For a long while the co. hoarded up its
savings. Five years ago it had in cash and
Treasury bills £44,174. Then it. began
making larger advances on properties, and
from £12,717 this line has moved up to
£51,383, while the cash and Government
securities have been -reduced to £26,297. This
means extra risk, of course ; whether it means
better net interest earnings only the future
can show.
The little silver-lead mines in Tasmania
are having a gay time, for the small con-
signments of crudes and concentrates sent
to Cockle Creek (N.S.W.) are returning
handsome profits. The Magnet and the
North Mount Farrell are both handing out
nice dividends. Blocked-out reserves are
17,000 tons and 15,000 tons respectively,
but “probable” ore is very considerable. At
the Magnet the concentrating plant is closed
down for want of water, but the co. is
scooping a second dam to avoid this diffi-
culty in future. Luckily the mine is in
good form at present, and is producing 100
tons of crudes per week, assaying 50oz. of
silver and 27 p.c. lead. North Farrell is
raising from 800 to 1000 tons of crudes per
fortnight, but most of it is milling stuff.
There are 80.000 shares, so the Is. costs
£4OOO
Two Daylesford mines are on to the divvy
list—the Ajax and its neighbor the Central.
The first had the luck to strike a fresh shoot
above a slide at No. 7 level, and with 3ft. of
rich stone to draw on for a length of 140 ft.
nice profits are coming. This leads to the
turning on of steam at No. 6 level in the
hope of getting out a crosscut from the drive
on MacMillan’s lode to pick up the shoot
overhead. At the bottom level the eastern
crosscut has got. into formation, so George
Buchanan’s hat has a perkier tilt than it
has worn for months. The excitement over
striking more than the usual Daylesford
mixture in this Ajax east crosscut would be
mild stuff compared with the flutter that,
would occur if dee]) sinking at the Central
gets out of unkindly slates into something
profitable. The market would then ■ have
such a .lift as it hasn’t seen since the Edna
Central boom.
Edna May Junction (W.A.) has paid a
deposit, the first of £4OO. on the Pertlia
lease at Westonia Soak, and is beginning to
blow about its “bargain.” Already the
average value of samples “taken from the
various faces and underfoot” is 33dwt., and
The Bulletin won’t be surprised if they
soar a bit higher before long. Insiders
reckon that the shares will reach £l. but at
that price they are a dangerous gamble.
Several bricks are being hurled at the
proposed Westralian mining conference.
Outback dryblowers and prospectors to
whom the industry is much indebted com-
plain that the Minister is handing out free
passes to the pavement speculator and brass-
plate mining man and leaving the experi-
enced, practical man to attend at his own
expense. The Leaseholders’ Association,
too, has its knife into the Minister for deny-
ing it representation on a committee
appointed to ’ frame an agenda paper. The
Association claims that of the bodies repre-
sented the Chamber of Mines has displayed
little practical interest in prospecting and
is not in touch with it. and that the Miners’
Union is concerned chiefly with wages and
working conditions in established mines.
The prospectors reckon they have too long
been hampered by red-tape Department
regulations, and they don’t want Depart-
mental officials fiddling with the affairs of
the conference.


r-r
/3
i
fl
S i
5
- %
‘V,
S-J
=«3s*
'Z&c..
S&=s
%
<®fe
m
=5%
'V«-
> -
U IS A HALE BLCPHONE-
tfie musicaf instrument wfiicfi recreates
tfie tmest efforts oftfieAVbrfds Best
Entertainers. Tfie tuffriefi tone ripples
fortfi in a flood ofmefody as artistic
andfas perfect as tfioudfi tfie actuaf per-
former were in tne room.
Abu wifi enjoy fiearm(s your favourite
artist on tfie BEALE KALOPHONE.
Made in many styles.
Showrooms:
333 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Bathurst, Orange, Lismore. Newcastle, Goulburn and Wagga.
Victoria : Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania : Williams Bros. Hobart. Maples, Launceston.
Soi/th Australia r John Evans. Ltd., Adelaide.
leccle
& C? LTP
333 George St Sydney.
h actory :
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST. ANNANDALE.
Queensland . 90-92 Queen Street Brisbane
Kent Street, Maryborough. Flinders Street. Townsville.
Rockhampton. Sydney Street. Mackay.
Cairns.


9
m
i KEEPING
FIT ■
4?oman
Rings,
Dumbells
and
Indian Clubs
will develop the
muscles and add to
the chest measurement
of the man who lives a
sedentary life and who
never takes exercise or
exerts himself physically,
but
FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
V THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
develops brain power, energy,
strengthens the nerves and
aids the digestion.
It also banishes Headache,
Backache, Malaria, Rheuma-
tism A and Neuralgia, and
compensates the system for
the waste occasioned by too
violent exercise or prolonged
physical exertion.
STRONG IN DIGESTIVES
RICH IN PHOSPHATES
ALL CHEMISTS & STORES
"\ j- per Bottle. Four times the quantity 2/6
Chemists,
337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N S.W.
___ F.\55P
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
I
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone ma , ny tim ? s , as e , fficient
, , . and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on evei'y occasion ,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free , or write for illustrated
boolclet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, ROCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that
will restore the color of youth.
One need.not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a
few. days’ time merely by the. application
of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from
your chemist two ounces of tammalite con-
centrate and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply this to the hair a few times
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradu-
ally darkening to the desired shade. The
lotion is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and
does not injure the hair in any way. [1
THE: GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT w
& RHEUMATIC PILES.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 221) Strand. London.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
f 1
if
The BULLETIN
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
The two most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They both have
Pigskin Seat, the “GS” short pane: with
leather points, long flaps and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
Stirrups, Girth, and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle.
Freight Free for Cash to Any Port or Rail-
way Station in N.S.W. For 3s. 6d. extra
for casing we will send Freight Free to any
direct port in Queensland, Victoria, South
Australia, N.Z. or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 11/6, SADDLECLOTH 6,6,
BREASTPLATE 8/-
If Ordered with Saddle. Otherwise Is. each
Extra for Postage.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS
393 George Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
•
m
O-
"ifm
JtK.u
BEAUTY SECRETS
REVEALED.
By “MIMOSA."
HAIR CULTURE.
A DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
there is really no need to have poor or
impoverished hair if a few commonsense
'ules are observed. First of all, hair tonics
must be freshly-made in order to obtain the
best results, and thousands of women, and
men, too, are now making up their own
lotions with most satisfactory results. For
this purpose they obtain from the chemist’s
one ounce of boranium and mix this with
i pint of bay rum, quite a simple formula,
and according to all accounts remarkably
effective. This simple home-made lotion
quickly removes all dandruff, and creates a
growth of new, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman.- One word
in conclusion. Do not experiment with
your hair, long suffering though it may be.
Nature will surely revolt if you continue
to subject the hair and scalp to all kinds
of fanciful treatments. Employ a tonic by
all means if such is required, but having
found a satisfactory one use no other.
GOOD SHAMPOO IMPORTANT.
THE hair should be allowed to breathe,
and the greasy film around each strand
must be removed with a mild non-
alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be tabooed.
The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stal-
iax granules in a cup of hot water. It
stimulates the scalp to healthy action, and
at the same time leaves the hair in that
soft, fluffy condition so much admired. Any
chemist can supply you with an original
packet of stallax, sufficient to make twenty-
five or thirty shampoos.
MAGIC FOR SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
IT is astounding the number of women
who suffer from unsightly growths of
hair on the face, and it will come as a
piece of good news to know that there is a
simple substance, known as powdered phe-
minol, which will remove it immediately
and permanently. Mix a small quantity
into a thin paste with a little water, and
apply to the objectional growths. In two
minutes all trace of the hair will have
entirely vanished, and your skin will be as
soft and smooth as a child’s.
RENEWING COMPLEXIONS.
THE average woman of to-day is usually
satisfied if her complexion is passably
pretty, little knowing that an exquisite
skin is now within her reach, providing she
has the good sense to stop using cheap made-
up preparations and adopt what has now
become known as the mercolised-wax habit.
It is a pity that every woman in the land
cannot be apprised of this simple method.
The few to whom its virtues are already
known have complexions that are the envy
of all their friends, and, as is usually the
case, the majority of them refuse to divulge
the secret. However, the formula has now
been verified, and is known as mercolised
wax. Inquiry at several chemists’ shops
have resulted in ascertaining that this sub-
stance has been known to the select few for
some years as a complexion beautifier, but it
is only until quite recently that it has been
used to any extent for this purpose. It was
also explained how mercolised wax renews
the complexion, but as this is rather tech-
nical it is not proposed to repeat it here. It
will be sufficient to say that through some
peculiar # action the wax absorbs the dead
and discolored outer cuticle, revealing the
fresh young complexion which every woman
has underneath. The process occupies about
ten days, and the change is so gradual and
imperceptible that no discomfort whatever
caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less and the wax may be use.d as often as
desired.
BLACKHEADS FLY AWAY.
A PRACTICALLY instantaneous remedy
for blackheads, greasy skins and
enlarged pores, recently discovered, is
now coming into general use in the boudoir.
It is very simple, harmless and pleasant.
Drop a stymol tablet, obtained at the
chemist’s, in a tumbler full of hot water.
After the effervescence' has subsided bathe
the face in the liquid, using a small sponge
or soft cloth. In a few minutes dry the
face and the offensive blackheads will come
right off on the towel. Also the large oily
pores immediately close up and efface them-
selves naturally. The greasipess disappears
and the skin is left smooth, soft and cool.
This simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days to
ensure the permanence of the result. n
FOURTH ISSUE
Time of receiving applications
extended to
MONDAY, 2nd APRIL, 1917.
Applications will continue to be received to the above date in terms of the original
Prospectus, with the following adjustment s
PUPPY-PAID APPPICATIONS. —If lodged on or before Bth March, 1917, interest at the
rate of £l/17/6 per cent, will be paid on 15th June, 1917.
If lodged after Stb March and on or before 2nd April, 1917, interest at the rate of
£l/10/- per cent, will be paid on 15th June, 1917.
IXSTAPMENT APPPICATIONS. — If deposit and first instalment paid or or before Btli
March, 1917, interest at £3/14/- per cent, will be paid on 15th December, 1917.
If deposit, first and second instalments are paid after Stb March, but on or before
2nd April, 1917, interest at £3/12/- per cent, will be paid on 15th December, 1917.
All other instalments will be due on the dates shewn in the Prospectus.
After the dates mentioned above, interest will be paid half-yearly at rate of 42 per
cent, per annum.
Applications will he received at all banks, State Savings Banks and Post Offices where
Money Order Business is transacted.
Support the Loan and Help Win the War.
February , 1911. . Commonwealth Bant: of Australia.
TheCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20 /- each.
The Bhck Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tbe Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s "—refuse all substitutes.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Tackeymo: Mica should not give trouble,
as it isn’t refractory like lead or wolfram in a tin
ore. But the thing is a gamble. The plant has to
be proved and the mine estimates established by
actual work. If it is so good, why does not Mel-
bourne peck after the scrip? Better put your cash
into the next war loan. . . .Yallambee: It’s all pro-
hibited information.... RiO.D.: Thanks; but we can’t
spread the jam on our own bread-and-butter....
C.M.: She doesn't shine badly, but she misses. The
“provocative” line means nothing. . . .li.E.: Not our
sort of yarn, but should sell elsewhere.... F.Y.:
“Brevity” in handwriting like that is plain crime.
. ...C.C.: Obvious bit of melodrama .... W. IT. L.:
You must distinguish between a story and a sermon.
.. . . G. 8.11.; Easy verse, but doesn't sparkle....
K.M.: “Fatherhood” is not strong enough to carry
the jolt in one or two lines. .. .8.T.: Nicely done,
but too slight. .. .L.F.8.: No use. Spelling eccentri-
cities only irritate 1.L.8.: Rejected because crude
tragedy doesn’t: appeal to us. You were answered in
this column before. .. .H.R.McD.: Sorry ; both fall
to pieces at the finish. .. ..1. A.: Doesn’t work....
W.S.: Story has points, but not our style... .B.B.:
As far. as. it can be read, the “Honeymoon” seems to
move heavily.... F. A. M.: It goes directly to the
point, anyhow :
Australia’s sons awake and gird your armor on.
Do you want Germany to take your daughter, wife
and son?
This is the time to fight—l beg you don’t delay,
Or, like a thief in the night, to silently slink away.
Ip! Awake! Arise! Do not be called a shirk.
Put on the khaki if you’re wise, for foemen always
lurk.
Be ready for the fight, do not delay, I beg.
Know you that right is might—Australia do be
ylcy.
Win the war we must —we shall —won't you come
now and enlist?
Your help is needed to help us all, enlist, 1 beg,
implore, insist.
Up, and put the khaki on, buckle on your broadsword
too ;
Soon we'll have this Great War won, with the help
that you can do.
. ...8.V.C.: That idea was exhausted nearly two
years ago. .. . J1..T.8.: Lame fooling. ... .R.N.C.: First
stanza is remarkable: —
When the priest is gone the lizard
Bead-eyed from the porchway gazes,
Thinking thus what in his gizzard
Tickled as the organ blazes.
V. A.; Doesn’t strike us H.0.C.: Neither will
do. .. . W.8.K.: Pleasing, but rather feeble T.H.:
“Pilots” not up E.L.S.: Doubt if a bullock could
carry a load of gold like that: in its stomach. A
goat might ... .E.W.D.: Brightly enough written, but
nothing in it... .H.W.S.: “Poet,” “Fisherman” and
“Summer” all pan out poorly... .L.L.: Soldiers’
mother yarns are pretty, but don’t convince....
Half-moon: Last stanza too weak... . W.F.: Verse
must conform to some rules.... Outlaw: Amusing,
but not up P.T.8.: Pretty weak gibe that....
E.G.W.: Not up. .. .W.L.: Verse suitable for Katie's
album... .11. E.: A fearful lot of words wasted to
say that work is a cure for seasickness. .. .A.R.G.:
“Woolshed Flat” too thin. . . .0.W.: They don’t....
J.P.K.: Feeble stuff with each stanza ending in a
bad rhyme. .. .1T.J.8.: Stiff and commonplace....
L.R. : Nothing in it; and one line is a foot too long.
.. . . J.G.: Not much in it. How the deuce can soli-
tude make you free?... ,H.E.: Don’t know how you
can improve—unless it is by making up your mind
not to write until you first get hold of something to
write about... .L.D.: It makes our head acher...
E.TI.C.: Poor verse bumping along in the old way. .. ,
A. : The trouble with you and a lot more is that
you either don’t read this, column or forget what
vour own initials are P.L.C.: Dreary stuff with-
cut thought or skill. . . .Rad: Sorry, but it has no
hope. .. .S.J.K.: Nothing quite up, but promise in
verse. .. .S.L.: It’s a vivid episode :
’Tvvas in a darksome road
He strode along ;
He plucked his courage up
With feeble song;
A dark bush ’gan to stir—
A gruesome sight!
His backbone twitched and jumped
In awful fright!
“You're doomed!” a voice, he thought
So fiercely slid—
“ You'll never see the day ;
In fact, you’re dead ! ”
He jumped six feet up high
And turned snow white—•
A cow walked out, then ran
For all its might!
. ...S.S.D.: Tender enough, but too slight....
Wilberru: It has some points, but not enough.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.W.C.: A dull cargo and an old one... .I.McD.:
Drawing is hopeless and gag old. .. . G.11.T.: Picture
of four lunatics and a female freak declined....
B. : Don't be an artist just yet. You can't
draw. .. . J.W.N.: Plastered with so many labels that
it is more like literature than art. .. .R.G.S.: Dim
blue scratches and a Woodrow Wilson that looks like
C. G. Wade. .. . J.D.8.: Dislike them both....
A.McC.: Take away your distorted “comic” visions.
. ...J.S.: Not only rough, but ancient as we 11....
Marcus G.: Bright remark about 4000 years too
late.
“Jacobin”: Heaven help us! I walked
round Collins-street into Swanston, down
Bourke and up Elizabeth-street, also through
the two arcades and their anabranches, or
billabongs, and I counted the jewellers’
shops—3l of them in a block of shops one
furlong square! These shops are for women,
and most of them have been opened since
August, 1914. Their stocks represent
“soldiers’ money,” in the cant phrase of the
day—that is, wasted money; money spent
on luxuries; on persons, on things, and
never on ideas. If it wasn’t that old Cole’s
Book Arcade was plunk in the centre of this
mass of dud brooches, brummy earrings,
German-silver tiaras, Swiss watches, Yankee
baggery, Japanese bangles and French fans,
I would despair of my native land’s future.
Do. you know what it all means? Debt!
Nothing else! We have bought thousands
and hundreds of thousands of pounds’ worth
of gewgaws during the past three years—on
tick. Not even on time-payment, for we
haven’t even paid a deposit.


.-.W
m
FT’!
wm m
A ;
.
f>.-
m
j
m
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY AND THE TRANSMISSION OF POWER
s m
tiling* tite Transmission Belting*
is Rapidly Leather
for these Very Good Reasons
Soaring prices are depressing the quality
of most of the belts vou still buy at
j j
approximately their former price.
The leather famine is making the service
cost of good leather prohibitively high
in many instances.
In both cases profits are hard-hit.
Goodvear Klingtite Belts are vour insur-
j O J
ance of profit, as they are your assur-
ance of quality maintained.
No matter what the price of materials
and labor, The Goodyear 1 yre and
Rubber Company never departs from
the standard on which their transmis-
sion belting business is erected.
For the initial and continued success of
that business is due to the low contin-
uous-service cost of Klingtite Belts,
and not at all to price.
Yet every purchase of Goodyear Mechan-
ical Goods places at your disposal the
tremendous Goodyear purchasing
power.
You are sure of getting the highest grade
of material at the best possible price
as well as better work at a lower cost.
In consequence Goodyear Khngtite Belts
are being used where formerly only
leather belting was considered.
Not only their price, but their continuous-
service cost to-day is lower than that
of good leather for all but a lew uses.
And cheap leather is always expensive.
Like all inferior belting it causes shut-
downs and delays, causing irreparable
losses in these times of . capacity
production.
That is one of the many reasons why
capacity production is the best of all
salesmen for Khngtite Belts.
Write for our Booklets on Mechanical Goods, containing
specific recommendations for every operation in mills,
mines and factories. We believe these are the greatest
advance in the method of presenting and treating your
mechanical and buying problems offered iiy the last
twenty years. Both master mechanics and administiative
executives are using them in revising operating costs
downward. Have your secretary send for them to-day.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE and
All States and New Zealand.
RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA.
Head Office: 231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
BSI
*r
it
E-VALVES
i
■ -
,
mm
Q
nRHEnp


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E.N GLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place,
. Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BURWAH (Cargo onty).
Leaves Sydney, March 3.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 7.
Leaves Sydney, March 10.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 14.
Leaves Sydney, March 17.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
. SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 10.
only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, Sc.
THE
Australian Rank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
authorised capital .. .. £2,000,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Uo £1,198,679
RESERVE FUND . . . . . . £95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George St King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; Georoe F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. AVELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E; H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEAV
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. :
Jas. Milne, Esq.; J V. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Qo.
of Sydney, [limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£5,000,000 0 0
1,900,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Coi-ien, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: IT. IT. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World!
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . . . . 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia,. New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other-places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
with the CANADIAN
PRAIRIES, GREAT
PACIFIC
LAKES,
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
AROUND THE WORLD HOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at» Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
. _ 7
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America-
It.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
m
m
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILB & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
£3,705,320
£2,725,000
£3,705,320
Directors:
£10,135,640
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney, London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
-T. RTTSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
(lommomvealthMk JBankßustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
■l/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at Q<y
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELI-, Deputy Gorernor. June. :916 DENISON' MILLER. Govei-
Calvert's
Oinfmenf
is just what you may
want any time, any day
a healing, soothing,
antiseptic ointment.
Keep a supply by you ready
for cuts, scalds, scratches and
chafed or sore skin.
In cases of insect bite, piles,
eczema, or ringworm it has
also been proved useful.
Sold by local Stores & Chemists.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL &5 00,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture,&c. Rents also assn red.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
I
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIBIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
March 9 and April 6.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, March 3.
■MORIALTA, March 10.
PARINGA, March 17.
~ Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Oltice.
G. S. YUIIiIj & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Wimmera,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Victoria.”
“Riverina,” “ Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
a'nd
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:— OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & C<3. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & ‘CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent. •Steamers trade regu-
larlv to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND. CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKET'S.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, s : r, >. • Mrond-ehiss rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE. 2CI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Go.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,0C0 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second .Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Cods steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents. 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian. 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British , Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hoi-
born, London, W.C., 'where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Dreams
of the
Past
THE monotonous and
hard work of house-clean-
ing, dusting and polishing,
becomes a dream of the past when
you have an O-CEDAR Polish-Mop.
Try It At Our Risk
Your dealer will supply you with O-Cedar.
We take all risk, because we guarantee to
please you. Put it to every dusting, clean-
ing and polishing test. You will be surprised
at the gratifying results.
Catalor/ues and Deader Samples and Prices can be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
Also at BRISBANE.
Manufactured by
Channel! Chemical Co., Factory: Chicago, U.S.A.
Offices: London Toronto Buenos Aires
Cable Address: ‘Ocedar.’
o€fesM»P
[Registered in principal countries)
IT puts an end, forever, to
the constant getting down
on your hands and knees
and the back - breaking
stooping to clean, dust and
polish hardwood floors, etc. And
no more stretching to dust the
tops of doors, the tops of tall furni-
ture, open rafters, mouldings,
etc. Neither do you have to
crawl under the
bed to dust; nor
sit on the stairs
to dust and
polish the steps
or banisters one
by one.
i
Pleasures
of_ the
Present
<3
V,
The NEW
EDISON
atriumph of genius
m
SUE
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The NEW EDISON
is the attainment of
Mv. Edison's ideal;
the great inventor’s
dream eonie true.
It re-creates the
human voice and all
forms of music, so
that the most highly-
trained ear is de-
ceived, for the tones
are indistinguishable
from those of the liv-
ing artist.
Write to-day for de-
scriptive catalog, post
free.
W A
“ARABiS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for CiREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AKABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all’ others ; it is the best and
cheapest.l have ever used.”
“Arabis’ Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
; y Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
-r.or imitations to deceive vou. Look for tlie signa-
'• e . lf i ed Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Jjtaicable * rom Chemists and Stores in Australia.
hd
ML
PERFECTION in DESIGN,
)ESIGN, MATERIALS WORKMANSHI\
X ilk x A A' JL
Oi/
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
mm I
—*■
-• -Xto* .
mm
SAXTON & BINNS’ NEW TUG “SAXO.”
60=h.p. “ SKANDIA” ENGINE
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
fg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
hdf
ABBEY
SHOES
are made on our own lasts, thus
giving them the same smart and
exclusive appearance as made-to-
order footwear. ,
If you want long-wearing, perfect-
fitting and smart-looking shoes, you
cannot do better than wear Abbey
footwear.
We illustrate a choice Box Calf
Oxford Shoe, perforated Golosh,
In full-sizes, narrow, medium and
wide-fitting
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR
CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
UMP
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
Agents:
BnnettSßarksll
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
at
v, v
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40' years.
Made and JScdd by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Couiise of
8 Boxes £l, Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
owm
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.


INCREASED STRENGTH FROM
PHOSPHATE.
SPECIALIST TELLS HOW TO DOUBLE
STRENGTH AND ENDURANCE.
A great authority on the subject of health,
strength and endurance, in explaining the
marked increase in strength and endurance
obtained from the use of the product known
among chemists as bitro-phosphate, claims it
is due to its recognised nerve-building pro-
perties. He says, and it must bo admitted
that his logic is unanswerable, that inas-
much as the muscles simply transmit poicer
derived from the nervous system, strong
nerves and a big reserve of nervous energy
are infinitely more important than big
muscles. Bitro-pliosphate, not being a drug
or a stimulant, but a nerve-builder which
supplies direct to the brain and nerves the
required phosphoric elements, was first pre-
scribed by physicians with marked success
in the treatment of neurasthenia, insomnia,
nervousness, debility and mental depression.
It was soon noticed, however, that, in addi-
tion to permanently relieving nervous dis-
orders, it also greatly increased strength and
endurance. The amount usually prescribed
is one 5-grain tablet with each meal, and. in
view of its comparative inexpensiveness,
those who wish to increase their- strength
and endurance, as well as those who suffer
from nervous disorders, are strongly advised
to give it an immediate trial. —Advt.
Motor Accessories at Clearing Prices
During our Great Summer Sale we are offering
some special inducements in motor accessories of
all kinds, at absolute clearing prices. Here are
some of the bargains :
Usual Sale
Price. Price.
IMPERIAL TYRES, 30 x 31. “Ford” size (Special Cut) £5/12/6 £4/15/-
Other sizes equally cheap.
CLEARING LINE:
SEARLE’S TUBES— Price
Size. to Clear.
26 x 2i £2/15/- £2/2/-
26 x 21 ■ 2/18/- 2/5/-
700 x 85 5/1/6 3/19/6
700 x 90 * 5/5/- 4/4/-
760 x 90 5/10/- 4/8/6
915 x 105 7/2/6 5/5/-
820 x 120 7/5/- 5/ 7/6
880 x 135 8/17/6 6/17/6
895 x 135 9/3/6 7/7/-
935 x 135 9/9/- 7/12/6
Usual Sale
Price.. Price.
TEMCO SHOCK ABSORBERS, for Ford Cars, per pr... £5/5/- £4/10/-
ALLEN’S BOX SPANNERS 40/- 35/-
3O- 26/3
„ 20/- 17/-
ALL OTHER ACCESSORIES REDUCED.
BIG REDUCTION IN MOTOR COATS & OVERALLS.
The “GRANT SIX”
The Car that has
proved itself »
£350
A new shipment of these remarkably fine Cars has just arrived. They are
PHENOMENAL VALUE at the usual price of £365.
DURING THE SALE ONLY
With EXTRA TYRE & TUBE.
•SOLE AGENTS
Marcus Clarß &, Co. Ltd.
THE “CHANDLER SIX”: A new shipment is expected daily. SPECIAL PRICE during SALE for orders booked to arrive.
OARAGE> sind
SHOWROOMS,
Telephone: City 8862.
162 Castlereagh St., Sydney
IN
BANANA LAND
There’ll be no need to ask the seven chil-
dren of Private P. J. Mellifont what their
father did in the great war. When Bill
started butchering in Belgium, Mellifont,
who saw service in the Boer War, promptly
hopped into khaki. In Egypt a horse put
him out of action, and he returned disap-
pointed. But when recruiting sagged he
pushed up again and convinced the Medical
Board that he was fit. So i-n September he
donned khaki for the third time, and is now
in England.
The Townsville railway boilermakers, who
have been out on strike for three months,
were a few days ago notified that if they
would return they might collect certain “dirt
money,” as an evidence that there was no
bad feeling on the part of their political
bosses. The day is not far distant when
every man who goes out on strike will
demand a bonus for doing so—and probably
get it.
“Politicus” : What do these men want? A
recent Townsville message said that a strike
of railway boiler-makers was still going
strong after three months. For years and
years strikes were defended on the ground
that the .working-man couldn't get justice any
other way. all power being in the hands of
the private profit-monger. Now. however,
Queensland has State railways and Arbitra-
tion Courts ; and the administration is in the
hands of a Labor Government. If Labor
can’t get justice through that lot, it ought to
tell us plainly what more it thinks necessary
in order to procure for it justice without
these deadly strikes. Or, frankly, doesn t it
want just as much as ever it can get, no
matter how —and blow justice !
“Itchy”: Brother Binghi has developed
fastidious tastes in the North. Out Clon-
curry way on Saturday afternoons he is
seen with American cut suits, lavender ties
and patent-leather boots, and I’ve seen him
even reclining in a 40-h.p. car, joyriding and
THE MEANS OF SUPPORT.
CONTRACTOR (arriving upon scene of desolation): "Good Heavens, man! What's hap-
pened?”
FOREMAN : “Sure, as soon as ire took down the scaffolding the whole blinkin’ 'ouse fell
down!”
CONTRACTOR (with rightful ire): “You nickel-plated idiot! Didn’t I tell you not to
take down the scaffolding till the wall-paper was up?"
hanging the expense. Recently I was at a
sugar-mill out Mulgrave way where brown
sugar is served with tea. Everybody used
it in preference to white, excepting the
binghis, who walk five miles into Cairns to
get the refined article. Black Brother also
insists on getting his tobacco in tins; he
scorns the vulgar plug.
Stirring event at the Ann-street (Bris-
bane) Presbyterian Church :
11, “And the angel departed.”
7.30, “Wearing the wrong clothes.”
“Boro-Belle”: The "messing isn’t always
about the weight of the obese bullock in
Bananaland. At Mitchell recently a 511 b.
watermelon took the place of the fat beef;
and at Cairns one recent hot day a slab of
ice was placed beneath a tree in the main
street, the guessing comp, as to what time it
would vanish netting a fiver for the hospital.
The Problem of Ting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ting-a-Ting, of the land of Ho,
Where poppies bloom by the wayside so,
Fell asleep on a summer day,
Fell asleep where the flowers were gay,
Dreamt he turned to a butterfly
Flitting about in the blooms anigli,
Sipped the honey and drank the scent,
Stole the best that the gardens lent,
Dreamt and dreamt for a tiny span—
Woke and found he was only man !
Ting-a-Ting as a man again
Turned and worried a weary brain :
“Which was living and which was dream !
Which was real and which did seem?
How and where did the stages blend.
Where beginning and where the end?
Say, is life in a life upcurled?
Do we seem in a seeming world?
What am I for the passing hour—-
Man or moth in the flaring flower?
Tell me this: In a trance was I
Turned but now to a butterfly?
Or resolve, if the Sages can.
Was I butterfly turned to man?”
Ting-a-Ting, of the land of Ho,
Gone hath he where we all must go;
Sages prattle—but don’t forget
None have answered his problem yet.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 24. 1017.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Queensland horsehair is well represented
in camp at present. The popular Percy
Hart has acquired a star on his shoulder-
strap. and Ileneiunan (Brisbane), Peterson
(Longreach). Hutchen ( Townsville) and
Harvey and Webb, from the Crown
Law Office, are all busy strafing Kaisers.
Bill Garde, of Toowoomba, departed Ilun-
wards with a recent batch of reinforcements.
Captain Cecil Stodart, son of “Jim”
Stodart, member for Logan for 25 years,
has received the Military Cross for “con-
spicuous gallantry.” Elder brother Bob,
who was wounded in the landing at Gallipoli,
is again at the Front with the rank of
colonel.
Herbert Fraser Watson, second son of the
late James Watson, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), has
been saluted as a winner of the Military
Cross. He was born in Sydney, graduated in
Law at the local ’Varsity, then came up to
Longreach (Q.) to manage one of the family
stations. When Wilhelm got hydrophobia
Watson hurried into Australian khaki as a
private, was through Gallipoli and thence on
to France, where he recently won a commis-
sion.
Word floats over from Vancouver, where
two of Robert Philp’s daughters are at pre-
sent snowballing. Daughter May is there to
support sister Blanche, whose husband has
enlisted. The new soldier bears the name of
Henderson, and is a brother Of that other
good soldier-man who married Miss Cunning-
hame and died of pneumonia in the early
stages of the war.
Bananaland Education Department has
opened its first rural school at Nambour.
Young Billjim will be taught how to make
cases and gates, do a bit of farm black-
smithing and tinkering, and attend to the
harness-repairs, while his sister gets hints in
cooking, jam-making, dressmaking and sun-
dries. If this experiment is successful simi-
lar schools will be set up in other parts.
An almost sure Rhodes scholar was lost
to Queensland when Lieut. Albert E. Harper
was killed in France. lie was a Reaudesert
lad, and only 21. At Nudgee he was editor
of the college paper, winner of the 1!)1l>
oratory medal, captain of the football team
and well to the fore in other sports. He
enlisted from the Queensland Uni. in August.
11)15, and left with a detachment of Pioneers.
Maryborough witnessed an unusual
funeral the other day when the ashes of a
local youth—A. J. G. Pearce—arrived from
’Murka for interment. Pearce won a jiu-
jitsu championship belt in the U.$.A. a few
months ago, but the injuries he received
from his .Tap opponent eventually killed
him.
If Reynolds’s Newspaper, of London,
may be believed, our Andrew Fisher is to
be a candidate “for an important British
industrial constituency, where it is expected
there will be a vacancy early in the current
year.” Now, who is Andy expected to move
on for this time?
Acting-Colonel William Trew, who, after
a variegated career in Egypt, Gallipoli.- Ser-
via, Salonica and France, gained his majority
]< ss than two years after enlisting at Broad-
meadows, is now temporarily commanding
the battalion he entered as a junior sub.
Amongst other things, he is a brother-in-law
of popular John Gildea, who, assisted by a
staff of cadets and boundary-riders, holds
sway over the 300,000-odd acres of Burenda,
in the Charleville district of Queensland,
recently devastated by floods of such violence
that the fizzer couldn’t cross the river, and
the homestead went without its mails for a
solid fortnight.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Bowen lost its oldest pioneer the Other
day, when John M‘Coy passed out. The trip
from Fogland, over half a century ago.
occupied six months, three days of which
were spent perched on the Barrier Reef.
After assisting to make a famous road up
the Leichhardt Range, M‘Coy became a small
cattle-king.
Balm in Gilead. The plaintiff in a recent
assault case in Brisbane deposed that lie
entered a two-up school and won £2O in a
few minutes. A witues3 went further— he
had won a few hundreds as the result of a
day’s strenuous “heading ’em.” Then Justice
Chubb gave a homily on the evils of gam-
bling, and that particular two-up university
got the biggest advt. of its life.
“McNorth”: “Bad.. Australian” (li.
JX/1/T7) is wrong. Mandioca (also called
manioc, cassava and tapioca) is grown in
the North. IJp on Cape York it does very
well and adapts itself to almost all varieties
of soil. It is easily grown and harvested.
Planting consists of sticking cuttings into
the ground Oft. or so apart and occasionally
weeding them till the thick, long t roots
develop. In a few months three or four
roots are produced from each plant and
they are dug up one or two at' a time, leav-
ing sufficient to support the plant. After
another moon or two the roots will have
grown sufficiently to allow of another bur-
glary. For the Northern man on the land
it is a most .convenient and easily-handled
crop, and the blacks are very keen on it.
The North would easily supply the growing
demand for manioc for glucose-making in
Australia but for the fact that all the manioc
used in these parts comes from Java because
the freight from there is only 15s. per ton
as against the 30s. charged on our own
coast. Which seems to point a moral, or
an immoral or something.
“Garnet” : A word or two about “sprue’
(B. 15/2/T7). Though you can find it
anywhere between Mack ay and Townsville.
Mackay itself is perhaps the headquarters
of the disease. The person affected first
complains of a sore tongue, and it remains
that way till the end. After about nine
months the coating on the tongue peels off.
and in about IS months _ the internal
organs of the body are in the same
state as the mouth. Diarrhoea sets
in at the beginning, and becomes chronic,
the body being thus deprived of nourishment.
At this stage (usually after about 20
months) recovery is impossible, and very
soon after death arrives. The disease can be
grappled with if taken in the first six months,
the treatment being rest and diet. But
even then the danger of recurrence is always
present if the patient continues to live_ at
the old address. Women seem more subject
to “sprue” than men.


MffiT HOMES ARE ALIKE - BUT SCME ARE DIFFERENT! WHY?
t A DOMESTIC DIALOGUE MP&M?? BROWN DISCUSS THE QUESTION
HE
□□□
i
(T) M r l M rs Brown do not know what to
do with their evenings.
They have reached the stagp when a
settled ennui creeps over them soon
after dinner.
a*
m
m
@M r Brown Something wiH have to bo done
to stop this boredom. The trouble is,people
dorit like coming here because theres nothing
to do. — Now there's an advertisement in
this paper for a Cottage Billiard Table.
0Q 0 0
0000
O (3 □ Q
BOOC
a bo|
Q
m
I
They write to Heiron co Smith and
receive full particulars with Illustrated
booklets by post. They are also infonmed
of the salonola,the Finest Voice Pro-
due in6-Machine in the World.
Departing Guests to Brown: Good-night
Mr? Brown, we’ve enjoyed our evening
immensly. My husband always looks "forward
to these visits —hburs is one of the most
popular houses in the district.
tk
□CD
□
© M r - Brown“Wc must be awfully dull
its only nine o'clock and all our visitors
have done. I saw some of them
yawning too ”
DCTT
iwr.
@ M r - Brown:'But it will be too expensive
and it will take up too much room.
M r Brown- It says here,we can it
tor a week, and it can be used
as adinind table as well **
/;
'ff
© Two Months Later. The Dining Table
is transformed into a Billiard Table
at a moment's notice, and the Brown's
never have a dull evening. You will notice
that thev have also acquired the Salonola. J
m
m
M>-
vJ
u\ ;•
r*
(6) DEPOSIT AND A "WEEK
WILL SECURE A COTTAGE
BILLIARD ~ TABLE ATTD
A SALONOLA
%
■WRITE for FREE CALENDAR
STOLL BARTICULARS of OUR
COTTACE BILLIARD TABLE
AND c yh<i SALONOL.A.
HEIFgfl ©MITH lE.
In the front Rankfir Home Recreations
• • showrooms • •
39? GEORGE- 5T SYDNEY.
214: CASTLEREAGH. S T SVDNEY.
50?500-QUEEN S? BRISBANE.


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Safe for
children.
ghd
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
/jt&ti&dtrcC
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS,
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
Tzm.
Between the
Wet Shampoos
use IcilmaHair Powder—
the wonderful English dry
shampoo. No wetting—
no trouble — no danger.
Just a light sprinkling of
the powder and a vigorous
brushing leaves the hair
clean, dry and attractive.
Icilma Hair Powder
is the best of all dry
shampoos—the only one
that readily brushes out.
Hair Powder
(For Dry Shampoo).
Pries 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Siltna.
J. C. Gambles & Co., Apents,
11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
AH.I
n
x\
The
Hot
Sun
&
Dust
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
it you use freely several times a day
Rowland's
Kalydor
which cools and refreshes the FACE HAND*?
*nd ARMS, PREVENTS and’removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and
other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High-pressure Stock*
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, Sydney. A. MAINE HERON, Manager.
<■-
f,
?
m
The British Brand protects you
against foreign-made inferior goods
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children 4 Men
No German or other foreign make can compare with
this best British brand, for fineness of finish andstlky
comfort. Australasian pute wool is used in the
manufacture of Jason, by the world's best
hosiery makers—the people of Leicester.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jason
Tabonevery pair. Drapers and Outfitterseverywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eat.
A. 65 ©
The “Swan-Safety".’ is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage: with the "ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
&WA
FOWNTPEN.
THE
SOEDIERS’
PEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorgeSt., Sydney
tr
86®-
—Rifle Sights
are more essential to a
sure shot than the gun it-
self. MARBLE’S Sights
will greatly increase your
accuracy.
MARBLES Flexible Rear Sight
Folds down when not in use
but springs instantly into pos-
ition at the slightest touch.
Alignment rigid. Elevation
quickly adjusted.
©
Vickers - Maxim Front Sight—
is a peep sight, the aperture being lined with
our lustrous Popes Island Gold so that the target
is quickly and steadily seen. Write for illustrat-
ed. folder on Rifle Sights, sent prepaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. CO.
611 Delta Ave., Gladstone, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address “Marble” Gladstone
Australian and New Zealand Representatives (136)
HARRY MOLDEM, Box 1349, SYDNEY
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FIXXIOAN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
lias accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition .to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, .who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from-16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMTTH. ifanager.
Get Busy
with a ‘Plum.’
All the experimenting in the world with so-called
“Safety” llazors will never yield the easy time-saving
experience that
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is noted for. The secret is in the marvellous finish
and tempering of the blade. Thousands of “Plum”
llazors are sold annually.
. PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
IVe keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Leaves the
face liKe
velvet. . .
It’s a Masterpiece
The “PLUM”
Razor.
Gilbert Wallace has got out a book for
Tate, of the Education Department, “How
We Raised the First Hundred Thousand.”
It is to be sold to help fill the hat again.
The State-school children of Victoria have
so far gathered £lOO,OOO for patriotic funds,
and the book gives a history of the effort
and some of the details. “All rivers run to
the sea, and yet the sea is not full,” is the
motto of the volume. City schools and small
bush schools to the far boundaries of the
State are all in the list. The children had
a Flower Day and got over £25.000. Socks
were knitted by the thousand, and the Sloyd
workers in schools made loads of crutches,
splints, bed-rests, ward tables and other
things. Since the book was compiled
another £50,000 has been raised. Also
400,000 garments (all well-made) have been
sent to the Front Any garments that turn
out too small or not of standard shape are
sorted out and sent to French and Belgian
orphans. The schools are also sending
food-comforts to the value of £7OO every
month to the Caulfield Military Hospital and
10 other military institutions.
The talons of war are now reaching for
N. S. Wales Government Gazette, and a
committee is considering what to chop
off the weekly issue and throw to the wolf.
But unless this be the prelude to a rigid
sub-editing of Government publications in
general—particularly of multitudinous and
voluminous reports—it is only toying with
a shameless waste of public money. And.
curiously, about the wickedest instance of
recent waste was committed in connection
with, a report on the Government Printing
Office itself.
The British Museum has just had pre-
sented to it two volumes of The Atlas, of
Sydney, for 1844 and 1845, when that journal
was under the editorship of Robert Lowe,
afterwards Lord Sherbrooke. The editor's
articles are indicated by the initials “ILL.,”
while the other chief contributors —amongst
them James Martin, afterwards Chief Jus-
tice —are marked with their initials. The
late Lady Sherbrooke was the donor; and the
only thing wrong about it is that the gift
went to the wrong collection. The Mitchell
in Sydney, was obviously the right
place for it.
The Bulletin’s esteemed contemporary
The Egyptian Mail (Cairo) shows the
extent to which the Unspeakable is prepared
to go. In its issue of December 15 it says:
In the name of justice and the rights of man, we
protest most strongly to all the civilised world
against the band of Turks who have been cruel
and inhuman to all the natives of El-Awali and
Medina where they hanged the innocent and sentenced
them to hard labor.
No wonder Webster’s Comic Post Office
lias a deficit of £315,000! A man of Box
Hill (Vic.) called at the local office last
week to send an urgent telegram and f und
a notice to the effect that the place was
“closed on account of the fruit-growers’
annual picnic.” It happened to be the mili-
tary pay-day; but what does the conveni-
ence of a few wretched soldiers’ wives and
families matter?
A recent big Darwin meeting, under the
auspices of the A.W.U., reeled off some silky
compliments to the Gil ruth Administration.
Among the eulogies, said or implied, was
that it. was hand-in-glove with Private
Enterprise to kill State control, and that the
failure of the demonstration farms, with a
loss of £lOO,OOO, was connived at to besmirch
the White Australia ideal. The meeting-
asked for a Commission; and that seems a
fair thing. If matters are allowed to drift
much further the South will one of these
days get so utterly tired of the North being
nothing but a mop for money that it may
cut the thing off and damn the consequences.
But any Commission that is appointed ought
to do a bit more than inquire into the alleged
transgressions and shortcomings of Gilruth.
From this distance the reputation of the
A.W.U. in the Northern Territory doesn’t
smell like violets either.
“Tamar”: The mutton-bird industry of
.Tasmania has been flapping its wings in
distress. Certain of the islands in the
Finders Group, Bass Straits, are wholly
reserved as rookeries; but portions of some
■of the unreserved islands are fenced off and
leased for grazing. Every year birders
make complaints of fences broken down and
stock allowed to graze on the rookeries.
This is serious, because once the burrows are
tradden in and the birds disturbed they
desert that island, and never return. Many
of the islands which were once frequented
by millions of muttons never see a bird now.
The stockowners’ usual drawling reply is
that the stock do not hurt the birds, and,
anyway, they are willing to pay more for the
leases if the Government cares to lease them
all the islands. But the Government gets
only about £3OO a year from the stock-
owners and the work does not provide a
living for more than a handful of people,
whereas the mutton-birding employs many
families, half of whom are descendants of
the Tasmanian abos., who have a big moral
claim on the Government.
“W. 11.5.” issues a certificate:—
When Brig. General Williams, of Ballarat, got to
business at the V.D. camp in Victoria he found 900
diseased men herded, in filthy tents, mangy in mind
and body, ill cared for, loathing themselves and
their surroundings, and mutinous. He had a
heart-to-heart talk with them and they tried to
count, him out. But he said his piece. Then he
paid them a bob a day—at that time they were
getting nothing—and on the first pay 90 of
them bolted. Williams was chaffed unmerciful]v,
but lie wasn’t downhearted, lie had another yarn
with the chaps and punched them full of sand.
Soon the armed guards were relieved and the camp
never looked back. Williams shifted it to a new
site and started" it on a fresh basis. To-day the
place is clean, the men soldierly and their spirit
fine. They have an excellent band. Part of the
day s routine is the A.I.F. training syllabus, and
over 4000 men have passed through the camp to the
firing-line in 18 months.
Iu his palmy days John Balding, who
lately dropped the reins at Stawell (Vic.),
aged Bb, collected more in fares in a week
than a present-day cabby gets in a year. He
landed in Vic. in 1854, and dug at Ballarat,
Ararat and other rushes. But he soon
changed his pick for a whip and took to
driving lucky diggers, which paid better. His
best day washed up for £4O.


Bring your holiday home
in happy Kodak snapshots.
To goon a holiday without a Kodak means that you will forget all about the good times you had.
To take a Kodak with you is to be able to keep a fine picture-record, and years hence
recall every pleasing incident.
Remember, too, making pictures with a
Kodak adds, to the pleasures of the
moment.
You can learn to use a Kodak in a few minutes, and
they are priced from 3D -to 5/2j~.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak the Soldier’s
Kodak —for pictures 2\ xlf inches, which are easily
enlarged. Price 30/-.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior, for pictures
2} x3j inches. Price 45/-.
The No. 3a Folding' Autographic, for post-card pictures,
—six 3f inches. Price
Ask for YOIJR copy of very interesting finely-
illustrated booklet: “Picture Making with a Kodak.”
or aLL kodak dealers and
Kodak (Australasia) Ltd.
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-253 Queen St., Brisbane. 37 Randle St., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart. Ruthven St.,
Toowoomba. Elindors St., Townsville, ben bam St., Rockhampton. 340 Ardent St., Broken
Hill. Dixon St,, also corner Lambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z. 3 Lome St.,
Auckland, N.Z., and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
My
Dishes*
A
aewsiwjft
2
&
/
. wmsmm
mi, Mgfei&%gMpj|
ESTLfS
CONDENS!
Ml£
'Hi
msTßmo
swiss WBaMM-
ARROWROOT
riipDING
s ertipM E nKl| E o( T ar,owroo> 2
4<v
° METHOD.-Di s ,olv<r the
m ,lk in the water. Mix the
oi with a dessertspoon-
arrowroot wUh milkinto
ful of milk. Put rest to
a saucepan and let he
the boil, then poor t on
a ' rOWr ° B l, P th g .hee 6?s
tune. Keat y t u e above mix-
Pot to a buttered dish
Tnd baK for about 15 minute,
RICE SHAPE
INGREDIENTS.—4 ozs. rice. 3
tablespoonsful NESTLE’S CON-
DENSED MILK, I oz castor sugar,
I pints water, flavouring to taste.
METHOD. —Wash the rice and
blanch it in water, then drain and
place it in a saucepan with the
water and milk, and simmer till
thoroughly cooked. Allow to cool
a little, then pour into a wetted
mould. Turn out when set, and
serve with jam or stewed fruit.
r SULTANA SCONES
• INGREDIENTS. - I lb. Hour, # tea-
spoonful carbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful
cream of tartar, teaspoonful salt, 2ozs.
butter, 4 ozs. sultanas, x /i pint NESTLE S
CONDENSED MILK mixed with water.
METHOD. —Mix all the dry ingredients
well together, rub in butter, add sultanas,
and mix a little dough with the milk. Roll
out, cut into scone shapes, brush over with
egg, and bake in a hot oven
BOILED CUSTARD
INGREDIENTS. % pint water,
2 tablespoonsful NESTLES’ CON-
DENSED MILK-, Yi oz. castor
sugar, 3 eges, flavouring to taste.
METHOD. —Boil the water and
milk together, add the sugar, and
flavouring essence as desired.
Then add the beaten egg, and
strain into a jug. Place this in a
saucepan of boiling water, and
stir till the mixture coats the back
of the spoon and resembles thick
cream. 1 Allow it to cool and use
as required for stewed fruit or
fruit pies, etc.
YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES
INGREDIENTS. & lb. flour, I oz.
butter, I egg, ,14 oz. German yeast, I tea-
spoonful of castor sugar, spare' '/? pint
water, I tablespoonful of NESTLES
CONDENSED MILK.
METHOD. —Cream the sugar and the
yeast, melt the fat in a saucepan. Dissolve
the milk in the water and pour on to the
melted fat and make it lukewarm ; pour
this on to the yeast and sugar. Pour the
yeast and milk into the flour, add the egg
beaten up, and mix well together. Flour a
board and turn the dough on to it, beat it
and cut it into cakes. Grease some cake
tins and put the cakes in, and stand them
by the fire to rise for one hour ; then bake
them for a quarter of an hour.
CHOCOLATE CAKE
INGREDIENTS—6 ozs. flour, 2
ozs. ground rice, 5 ozs. sugar, I
teaspoonful baking powder, >4 lb.
grated chocolate (sweetened), 3
eggs, vanilla flavouring, Vi lb. butter,
J 4 teacupful water, 1 tablespoonful
NESTLE'S CONDENSED MILK.
METHOD. — Dissolve the milk in
water and add the chocolate, place
in a saucepan over the fire in order
to dissolve the chocolate. Beat the
butter and sugar to a cream and add
the chocolate and milk ; add the
eggs one by one, mixing each care-
fully. Mix the flour, rice, and baking
powder together, and add them to
the butter, etc. Pour this mixture
into a cake tin and bake in a very
moderate oven from IY\ to \ l /z hours.
BOILED PLUM PUDDING
INGREDIENTS,-7 ozs. flour, A lb.
suet, 5 ozs. bread crumbs, A lb. raisins,
A lb. currants, 2 ozs. sugar, 1 teaspoonful
baking powder, 2 eggs, I teacupful water,
I tablespoonful NESTLE'S CONDENSED
MILK.
METHOD. —Dissolve the milk in the
water; clean the raisins and currants.
Chop the suet as fine as possible, and rub
it into the flour, add the bread crumbs,
~3Tigar, baking powder, raisins, and currants.
Beat up the eggs, add the milk, and stir it
all into the basin with other ingredients.
Mix well together and put into a well-
greased basin and boil for three hours.


Government Notices.
Department of tire Navy,
Melbourne, Feb rua r y,
Electric Lighting.—Henderson
Base.
1917.
Naval
AMENDED NOTICE.
riIENDERS trill be received, subject to
JL the conditions of tender, until 12
noon on Monday, April 30, 1917. for the
supply of Electric Lighting-, High Tension
Apparatus and Electrical Motors, for Hen-
derson Naval Base.
Tender form, specifications, ’ etc-., may be
obtained on application at the office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; and at the Naval Staff Offices.
Brisbane. Edgecliff (Sydney), Birkenhead
(S.A.). Fremantle and Ilobart.
Tenders to be indorsed “Tender for Elec-
tric Lighting” on top left-hand corner of
envelope, and addressed to the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy office, Melbourne; or
to the Director of Navy Contracts, care of
the above-mentioned addresses, as the case
may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
.T. A. JENSEN.
Minister of State for the Navy.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 31st January, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Timber to
the Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
TENDERS are invited, subject to the
conditions of tendering, until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 7th March, 1917, for the
supply of Teak to the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
Tender Forms, Specifications, etc., may
be obtained on application to the Director
of Navy Accounts, Navy Office, Melbourne;
General Manager, Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island. Sydney ; and at
the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birken-
head, S.A., Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Timber, Cockatoo Island,” on top left-hand
corner of envelope, and addressed to the
Director of Navy Contracts, c/o one of the
above-mentioned addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
forms, which can be obtained as above.
J. A. JENSEN.
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, February, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of 20,000
superficial feet of Teak Timber for
the Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
"TENDERS are invited, subject to the conditions of
1 tendering, until 2.30 p.m. Friday, 9th March,
1917, for the supply of 20,000 superficial feet of
Teak Timber to the Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
Tender form, specifications, etc., may be obtained
on application to the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; General Manager, Common-
wealth Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney;
and at the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birkenhead
(S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Teak Timber
for Stock, Cockatoo Island,” on top left-hand corner
of envelope and addressed to the Director of Navy
Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne,. or the Director of
Navy Contracts, care of one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not. necessarily accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed form,
which can be obtained as above.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, February 15, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Machine
Tools for Flinders Naval Base.
AMENDED NOTICE.
mENDERS are invited, subject to the
A conditions of tendering, until 12 noon on
Monday, April 20, 1917, for the supply of
Machine Tools for Flinders Naval Base.
Tender forms, specifications, etc., may be
obtained on application at the office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office.
Melbourne General Manager H.M.A. Naval
Establishments. Sydney: and at the Naval
Staff Offices. Brisbane, Birkenhead. Hobart
and Fremantle.
Tenders to be indorsed “Tender for
Machine Tools, Flinders Naval Base.” on
top left-hand corner of envelope, and addres-
sed to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne; or to the Director of
Navy Contracts, care of one of the above-
mentioned addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
forms, which can be obtained as above.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
.Legal Notices.
HENRY ISAAC COATES, Deceased. '
DURSUANT to a Judgment of the Chancery Divi-
sion of the High Court of Justice dated the 29th
May, 1910, made in the matter of the Estate of
HENRY ISAAC COATES, deceased, and in an action,
Attridge v. Inskip (1916 C., No. 1133). Whereby the
following inquiries were directed, namely:—
(1) An Inquiry who upon the death of the said
Henry Isaac Coates became beneficially entitled to
any real estate of his as to which he died intestate
and if more than one for what estates or interests and
whether any such persons are since dead, and if so
who by devise descent or otherwise have become
entitled to such real estate to which such persons so
became entitled.
02) An Inquiry who upon the death of the said
Henry Isaac Coates became beneficially entitled to
any personal estate of his as to which he died
intestate, arid if more than one in what shares and
proportions and whether any such persons are since
dead, and if so who are their legal personal repre-
sentatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiries are
by themselves or their Solicitors on or before the
15th May, 1917, to enter their names and the parti-
culars of their claims in a bpok kept for that pur-
pose in Room No. 699 Royal Courts of Justice,
Strand, London, and also on or before the 22nd May,
1917, to come in and prove their claims at the said
Chambers or in default thereof they will bo peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of such judgment.
TUESDAY, the 22nd May, 1917, at 12 of the clock
at noon at the .said Chambers (Room No. 700), is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claim:’.
Dated this 20th day of December, 1916.
J. H. P. CHITTY,
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note. —The said Henry Isaac Coates was a
Grazier, and died on the 22nd March, 1916, at 18
Cambridge Road, Barking, in the County of Essex, a
bachelor and intestate, and is alleged to be the only
child of Henry Coates and Mary Coates, formerly
Inskip. The said Henry Coates was formerly the
Licensee of the “Crooked Billet” Public House at
Barking Creek, in the said County of Essex, and
died intestate at- 18 Cambridge Road, Barking, afore-
said on the 20th February, 1894.
KENNETH BROWN, BAKER, BAKER and CO.,
Lennox House, Norfolk Street, Strand,
London. England, Solicitors.
Wanted.
Wanted Lady Home Workers.
£1 WEEKLY may be earned in spare time. Dainty
work, easily mastered at home from our simple
instruction. No matter where you live you can take
advantage of our special offer, which is open for a
limited time only. Send three stamps for booklet
giving full details. TORCHON LACE CO., 229
Collins Street, Melbourne.
h
you may SAVE a few PENCE whe
buying SUBSTITUTES but
HORROCKSES'
£oriocl{>&h and
WILL PAY YOU IN THE END
ESTABLISHED 1791
SEE
“HORRO'SXSES”'
ON
SELVEDGE
POST FREE FOR. TWENTY SHILLINGS
20
POST FREE.
I
N
THE
Miner’s Watch
The tiny particles of coal dust or
grit—which make an ordinary
watch useless for the Miner—
cannot get into the movement of
this Watch. The Case is made of
polished Nickel with SCREW
FRONT—fitted with stout crystal
glass. The movement is splendidly
made, with Compensation Balance
and Brequet Hair Spring, and is
positively dust and damp proof.
We have supplied hundreds of
Miners and Workers in Quarries
with these watches, and every
watch is giving thorough satisfac-
tion.
Price 20/- Post Free.
Write for Our Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND CORNER,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SJTJ9UIS JLO S3ft>9<l)S OJyJ
©i
nil i i
w
Bon Ami, the wonderful and
unique American cleanser, is
the only soap that will clean a
nice mirror satisfactorily. You
spread the wet white lather
thinly on the glass. The lather
dries to a soft, white powder.
Then you wipe off the powder
with a dry cloth, leaving the
mirror brilliant and clear. No
streaks or smears, because when
the Bon Ami comes off, it is dry
as a bone. Every wet method
of cleaning a mirror leaves
smears that are hard to get rid
of; the Bon Ami wet-and-dry
method is a great improvement.
Also for windows, brasses, tin
ware, bath tubs, nickel and tile.
At your grocers, 6d.
“There is nothing else like it.”
<?
BEFORI
>
AFTER
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(§PILLfIRINE
The ideal preparation for grow-
ing those short, stnbb.v mous-
taches affected by the military is
undoubtedly CAPILLARINE.
Hundreds have proved its unfail-
ing merit. Send for a jar to-day.
Price 10/6 -TAR. POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AliuEN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
Established aver SO Years.
11
Stimulating—
Nourishing—
Palatable —
Easily Made —
Easily Stored —
Always an Ideal
Food-Drink.
HORUGKS
MAITEDHICk
Dinneford's
Magnesia ,
MIE K H PJSOjtjl
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
lESPCBTMV '
HOTSQE.
In fsonseqnence
of numerous uod-
t ations purchasers
muEi. spe the name
“DIKUEFORB’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MQ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
j: -
si
■
ill
&
For Any Kind ©f Game
there is a REMINGTON-
UMC Cartridge that will i
give the surest results.
And this regardless of the
make of your favourite arm.
Secure a new General Catalogue
from your dealer, or, if he can’t
supply you, write us direct for a
free copy. Post free.
A
The Remington Arms
Union Metallic Cartridge/
Company
Woolworth Building
New York, U. S. A.
drt
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings. Melbourne.


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
"For about six months I was troubled
with dandruff and falling hair. My head
was so itchy and sore that I could not get
any sleep and my hair used to fall out
in handfuls and got very thin and was
dry and lifeless. My head was very
scaly and the dandruff used to fall out
on my coat collar. The irritation was so
bad 1 used to-lose many a night’s rest.
“A friend advised me to try Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. After using one
and one half tins of Cuticura Ointment
and three cakes of Soap the dandruff
disappeared.” (Signed)D. Byrne, Sydney
Road, Lidcombe, August 6, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Teach Cadets
hr
ROSS "CADET," .22 CALIBRE
to shoot
The Ross “Cadet” Rifle is 4
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
It is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges—
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It is an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
Full particulars on application. 715
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
m
u
■
■
m
m
B.
‘ELEY Smokeless'
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
1£ oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitre/
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-■
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. MvL.C.; Adrian \nox. Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
MARI'.
-studs that stop in
They have a tree-root grip a base larger titan
their visible area —hidden away beneath the solid
rubber tread.
You can get Palmer Studs out by cutting them adrift. Other-
wise they stop in, giving a certain road-grip, avoiding skid-accidents,
eliminating punctures entirely.
The wonderful petrol - saving
Palmer Cord Tyres are made
with steel-studded and the famous
three-ribbed rubber Treads in
all sizes: for light and heavy
Motor Cars, Motor Cycles and
Aeroplanes
Palmer Fabric forms the re-
inforcement of the lower-priced
Motor Cycle Tyres, of all
Palmer Cycle Tyres, and the Tyres
for Auto-Wheels.
Both Cords and Fabric minimise
internal friction.
Coro Tyres
Palmer Cycle Tyre Users are cautioned
in their interests to purchase only
Tyres bearing the Ti ode Mark beneath.
LITERATURE FREE
frcm
MOTOR TYRE AGENCY
The India Rubber, Cutta
Percha and Telegraph
Works Co. Ltd.,
279 George Street, Sydney.
and from Agency for
Motor Cycle & Cycle Tyres.
The India Rubber, Gutta
Percha and Telegraph
Works Co. Ltd.,
279 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
PALMER TYRE, Ltd , Chief Offices, 119 to 123 f Shaftesbury At., London, W.C.
*os«-
th
dy
The Story of the Lamp
mtj
o'
&
Sfffl
"• \ III..
The American “Camphene”
Lamp, 1845
In 1845 experiments were conducted in
America to produce a “burning fluid” to
take the place of animal and seed oils. Oil
of Turpentine was purified by distillation
over quick-lime and was called “Camphene.”
The dangerous nature of the new burning
oil soon brought it into disfavour.
Safety is an important matter in lamps,
heaters and stoves. Laurel Kerosene is
tested to 150 degrees of fire-heat before
being sold. Millions of tins of
Laurel Kerosene
The soft white light
are used every year without danger or
accident. Laurel does not char the wick or
clog the burner. Gives a brilliant light,
soothing and restful to the eyes. For
lighting, heating and cooking, it cannot be
excelled. Laurel is our new trade mark
name for the highest quality American
Kerosene ever sold in Australasia and
replaces our old brand, White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
La. 9
ky
lt
“The Old Soldier": If anybody seriously
believes that the new submarine campaign
will have the least effect on the result of this
war let him consider what historians of
tlie wars between Britain and France in
the ISth century have to say about the
effects of privateering on British trade.
I make one quotation from Martin (“His-
tory of France”) :
From June, 1756, to June, 1760, French privateers
took from the English more than 2500 merchantmen.
In 1761, though France had not, so to speak, a
single ship of the line at sea, and though the English
«'-> 0 f our [French] privateers, we still
took 812 vessels.
Inert- is imc so very much difference between
the light, fast sailing craft that the French
used as privateers and the modern sub-
marine. What there is is against the latter,
which is relatively slow, and could not, if
it would, take its prizes into harbor, which
is the proper business of a real privateer.
“Paraguayan”: A Sydney father tells the
press a ghastly story of how his 12-year-old
daughter visited an apparently clean public
lavatory, and a few days later was found by
a doctor to be suffering from syphilis (. B.
18/1/’l7). Why do not the Health authori-
ties have the sanitary arrangements under
the floors of public places so that .there
would be no need for seats? Asinine British
custom builds these like a Tower of Babel,
and then instructs school-children not to sir
on them! The barbarous Spanish-Ameri-
cans (as “Bad Australian” could tell you)
supply seated and seatless conveniences, and
you can choose the one you think safer. All
public places should have both kinds.
Some of the people who come from Gee-
long are not so slow. The other day the
local police received an inquiry from Scot-
land Yard, about a lady who used to live
there and is now making a stir in London.
It seems that she has a fancy for -entertain-
ing Australian soldiers who happen to be in
London and does it on a large scale, for
her latest spread was for 5000 of them. She
managed to get High Commissioner Fisher
to one of these shows, but apparently he
didn’t like it; anyway, he did not turn up
again. As the lady lives in a modest, not
to say poor way, in North London and
seems to have a plentiful lack of money for
most things, the authorities began to doubt
her motives and developed an idea that she
was fishing for information about military
matters and had a market ready for it. It
seems that the philanthropist was born in
Geelong but left there many years ago, and
no light could be thrown locally on the
question of her means for lavish entertain-
ment.
“Lou” goes to a house-warming:—
Baker’s Pavilion, in Exhibition-street, which used
to be the Democratic Hall, and 40 years ago was
Hoyt’s Livery Stables, becomes the Melbourne home
of Socialism. The Victorian Socialist party, the
result of Tom Mann’s early efforts, has now blossomed
into a 1000-member show, running Ross’s Monthly
and the weekly Socialist. With Adela Pankhurst
as organiser they are rigging a movie screen, placing
music-Stands for their rather decent band and uncork-
ing tons of enthusiasm. All- Toorak will be joining
up presently if they make it much more attractive.
Japan wants to make even our beer for us
now. It has an official always inquiring
into trade possibilities, and one of his latest
reports was full of fragrance. Although the
usual tone of the reports is most optimistic,
it was admitted, in this case, that Australia
did take an interest in making its own beer,
and that the only chance was to cut in on
the imports—a mere tenth of the country’s
total liquor consumption.
The cry of a sufferer who is tired of the
w r rangle about the site for the new Sydney
hospital for venereal diseases: —
My appeal to The Bulletin for help is the voice
of many wandering hundreds who have and are still
being turned away from Prince Alfred Hospital,
to innocently or intentionally spread infection and
waste time with unskilled treatment. Surely there
are many buildings in the city that could be used
for night clinics It is tragic that we " should
have to wait and suffer and endanger the healthy
population while State and municipal - politicians
dispute as to where the work of curing us shall be
carried on!
For various reasons the elderly fathers of
the Melbourne Public Library do not employ
women except to scrub floors. There are a
good many jobs at the library. It is a nice,
cool, quiet spot in the summer-time, and a
sheltered and pleasant place without
draughts in the winter. Much of the work
consists in sitting down and waiting for
somebody to turn up and ask for some-
thing ; and a w’oman could almost do
that. The time seems ripe to give her a
chance. In neither war nor peace can we
any longer afford to waste men in unproduc-
tive jobs. If the new arrivals at the
library are nice things in clean pinnies and
with a cheerful appearance, so much the
better—always providing that the supply of
disabled soldier has failed to satisfy the
demand.
G. fT. Taylor has just been elected presi-
dent of Dubbo (N.S.W.) Hospital for the
forty-fourth year in succession. Habit or
hobby ?
At the outbreak of war Percy Black
hustled to Perth from Yilgarn and got away
wdth the early bunches. He w r as at the
Landing as a lance-corporal and since then
has pushed so far forw r ard that he is now a
major with a D.C.M., a D. 5.0., an M.C. and
a French Military Cross; and yet, at latest
advices, when he was still going strong at
the Front, he hadn’t received a wound. The
luck of it !
An art note: —
A living picture enlisted at Melbourne Town Hall
recruiting-depot one day last week. This was
Sergeant-major A. E. Newton, bayonet expert.
While he was with the Scottish Rifles in India
rivalry arose as to which man could bear the most
tattooing. Newton won. He is illustrated from
frontispiece to foot. On his back five eagles, Bin.
from tip to tip, are fighting over a rabbit ; on his
chest is a full-rigged ship 12in. by 18in.; on his
thigh is a basket of fruit in eight colors, and pea-
cocks preen on his feet. Elsewhere are a British
lion, a bird fighting a snake, roses and more birds.
A cobra is twined about his leg. Stripped and
sooled on to the Germans, he should be worth a
whole battalion in its ordinary clobber.


SPORTING RIFLES
All the better brands are here. For full particulars see
our New Edition Sports List—Post Free on request.
FIREARMS EMBARGO LIFTED-
The military restriction prohibiting the sale of GUNS, RIFLES,
REVOLVERS AND AMMUNITION having been removed, we can now
supply these goods to the sporting public.
5 .
A reliable iceapon at a low price.
86. Steven’s Crackshot Rifle, new model.
22 calibre, under lever action, l>Sin.
round barrel, plain sight
15/0
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
> : ':S
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
837. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sflb.
Delivered,
£4/10/-
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 30/- 1000; 3/- 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
Learn to shoot with this rifle.
834. Remington Rifles, No. 6 Model, 22 calibre R.E.
20in. round blued steel barrel; weight, 3£lb
835. With ladder rear sights 1 22/6
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
ţy
18/6
Hi
A perfect rabbiter’s rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12, 22 calibre, solid breecli, side ejector,
straight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
front sights; weight. 441 b Delivered
55/-
d
The rifle to select for your own use.
822. “The Savage” Repeating Hammerless Rifle,
1914 Model, 22 calibre, rim fire, 24in. octagon barrel,
slide action, demountable, pistol grip, bandies short, long or long rifle cartridges;
magazine bolds 20 short, 17 long or 15 long rifle cartridges; length
over all 40iu„ taken apart 27Jin.; weight, about sflb Delivered,
£3/12/6
rgj
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger _ _ ,
guard, rubber heel plate; weight,' 2Jlb £JL "
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight 22/6
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
We Repair All Kinds
of Guns and Rifles.
£=fi
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
826. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 calibre, 6 shot, 20in. round
tapered barrel, take down, weight 611 b., muzzle velocity, 2800 ft. seconds,
may be used up to 350 yards without changing from point blank
adjustment of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patclied bullets (70 grains) are
used, giving a striking energy of 1200 ft. pounds; carriage paid.
New Edition Illustrated ,Firearms and Sporting Catalogue—Post Free.
£6/10/
w
NS
$
Ilf
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
Sel£regulating! &
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FouritSmPen
d
Absolutely notking
to do but write. Tke
patent and inimitable
Spoon Feed regulates
tke inkflow to tke
last drop in
tke pen
Three types—Regular, Safety,
and Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers ieS Jewellers everywhere
L. G. SLOAN,
Cty^etiCortier,
LONDON.
ENGLAND,
Australia: Harold D. Dixok, 105 Clarence St., Sydney.
yj
r5
Motor-
Driven
Warning
Signal,
£2)12/6
Warning' Sig'nal
Now the WORLD’S STANDARD
WARNING SIGNAL
The commanding blast of the Stewart Warning
Signal is now familiar the world over.
You hear it over the hills and prairies; you hear it in
the farmlands and around the ranches; you hear
it penetrating through forests, along rivers, streams
and lakes; you hear it on metropolitan boulevards,
as it makes the surging crowds stop, look and
listen. In short, you hear it everywhere.
The Stewart Warning Signal is of comparatively
recent introduction, yet now stands first in sales.
The hand-operated Stewart Warning Signal costs
but £l/10/=; the motor-driven Stewart, £2/12/6.
No others are better, although all others cost more.
Buy a Stewart Warning Signal for your car.
Stewart products will cost you nothing extra
on your new car, because most good cars are
so equipped . Buy one that is equipped with
Stewart Tyre Pump, Stewart Speedometer,
Stewart Vacuum System and Stewart
Warning Signal . It is a mark of quality,
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor=car Dealers
and Garages—Everywhere—or write
Bennett Wood Ltd.,
284 Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney, N.S.W.
The Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
“No car is better than its accessories.”
Wm
rasrxifcf. l -TK- :•>*:. -rwi V'rf Z*^j*r&h&r
Hand-
Operated
WARNING
SIGNAL.
£l/10/-
'*
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


CHARMING MARJORIE SIMS Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Miss Marjorie Sims’ sweet soprano voice has individualised and endeared h<?r
to all patrons of" the J. C. Williamson Co., Ltd. This charming young singul-
is an enthusiastic New Discovery girl. She writes us as follows: — '
sr 1
M
m
M
ft*
'
■ ■■■
m
7*
i# i
... *V
■
' i
mWma*. .mmmm.
wWf'wwi ■ ’
i!nm4 ■ • ■■Karvu v.. ‘
i *‘*7.
A'-V-
-'<T
;■ i.
. . . -jC.JVX ' . ■
. . '£../>•■'*••• '• ■ •
"'*’ M fh . ‘ ‘ ’ ■; - 1 .
MISS MARJORIE-SIMS .7 '
(from, a photo, by Monte Luke').
“I have been using I)r.;
Sheldon’s New Discovery!
now for the past three years,*
and I take this occasion to
write and tell you how use-
ful I have found it.
“There is no greater bug-
bear to a singer than a cold,
for it is almost sure to
affect the voice, and when-
ever I feel one coining on
I always take a sip of New
Discovery at once, and con-
tinue to do so until the cold
is entirely gone, or if my
voice shows the slightest
huskiness I use New Dis-
covery, and the huskiness
disappears as if by magic.
“I have recommended
New Discovery times with-
out number, and all my
friends think as l do, that
it is ,the premier, of all
Cough and Cold Remedies.
I recom m e n d it most
heartily, and I would not do
so if I were not absolutely
sure of what I say,
“Sincerely yours,
» “MARJORIE SIMS.”
Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery Is known far wjde as an unequalled Cough Remedy.
It's the finest remedy Von etwjj^used —bar n<rine. When you use it you can be mighty
sure that Coughs and Colds .will soon vanish. No wonder, though, for Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery has been compiled oh scientific line's,- and is designed to relieve the
cold without upsetting the' Digestive organs. Dr. Sheldon’s .New Discovery is the
quickest, j safest and best-known remedy for Coughs ,' r Colds, Influenza, Bronchitis and
all Throat and Chest troubles. I.t is the remedy that can be relied upon. Don’t
forget to take a bottle'home to-nifeht. j Price, 1/6 and 3/-
D? SH ELDON'S.
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
ou>s
0
$
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner. Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney,
DO YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood?.It will be evident
when you consider that the entire system derives its-nourishment
When the blood is poor in quality and unabie properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated. , A
He will continue to suffer until his:blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’. The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood. ' , ,
As the blood becomes Restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit arid well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron Jelloids the
“most effective and desirable treatment.
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1-1-6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON JELLOIDS No. 2A.
For Anczmia in Women ... IRON 'JELLOIDS No. 2.
For Growing Children ... IRON JELLOIDS No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large siie 3/‘. .
mmmwm
Sm (Pronounced Jell-Lloyds) .
3s*
mmm
increases the defensive forces of the body.
To keep lit drink Bovril.
' BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
6hw
If any ’illustration appearing in The
Buxleti*? taies your fancy, write to the
quote you* price for it.
Impenitent Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE’VE done with our youth and the
fever
Of passions that tore us and stung,
We can scoff at Boy Love, the deceiver,
Who diddled us when we were young.
We know where the solaces linger,
We taste the last savor of sin,
We’ve sung our last song, our last singer
Chucked under the chin.
Though of old we trailed after the glamors,.
And oft felt the bite of the flame,
We’re deaf at the end to the clamors
And whispers; we’ve learned all the game.,
As we stroll ’neath the tree marked For-
bidden
We cunningly pluck the best fruit;
As to Love, who comes slowly when bidden,
We teach him to shoot.
Those ladies, the Daisies and Dulcies,
Who once tore our hopes into shreds,
To-day when we play on their pulses
They hasten to lose their dear heads.
Of old we were fdols in the tourney,
Thebutt'of thh tomtits and snails;
But now, near the end of our journey,
Our skill never fails..
: ? I- -.., • ; .»• v
We could teach our old grandmothers’
mothers
To suck whatsoever we chose ;
But why, in this place with the others,
Should we worry with ancients like those?
For us .staid Minerva 'unbuckles
Her corselet and beckons us nigh ;
To ; iis the swart, garden-god chuckles,
Arid winks with his eye.
Wduld you toy with Delight? We’ve pre-
, .. | served it,
And dreep it at hand for our whim.
We ’ve no time to Waste (you’ve observed it?)
Tii words ’.twixt the lip and the rim.
We’re masterful, whimsical, tender,
: We ? re eager good midnight to save;
We coax, and Dame Fortune the slender
Knows ? how to behave. ■,
Fds dreahis on. good days we have credit,
r JAnd give old To-morrow a cheque ;
Ouf-memories we’ve no time to edit
"“'■Who run with the risks neck-and-npck.
pant beside us, or croodle,
r 'With kisses to shorten our breath ;
We’re funning (each wily pld noodle)
• A footrace with Death.
Ohd, for the/glad days behind ils!
And. here’s for the gamble ahead !
A toast for next year, that may find us
Decrepit,: despairing, or. dead !
Though nerves'be-not seasoned and steady
'As etstwmleV there’s life': in us still.
Though Oli?ayy the charges, already
AYe’rer footing the bill !
We’ve jyfth our youth, and’ the fever 1
Of- passions tlrat blistered and stung;
We’re pals of Boy Love, that deceiver
Who diddled us when we were y offing.
We know where sweet solaces linger,
We fondle, each last darling sin ;
We sing our last song, our last singer
Chuck uhdbr the chin !
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.
The Illusion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Curdie rode out to the back
of the run. that morning jt w.as
with the intention of putting the
Belaney boys off the place once and'for . all.
He had 1 heard' .that Con Delaney., after a
spell in St. Helena'Gaol,■'had come back to
the old can}p at the head’of the creek and
was looking Put for him. The teamsters
had been talking to the stockmen about it,
and pther. cattlemen had given him gentle
hints that he -had- better ride with a loose
rein for aivhile.
“They’re wilct’bo^s,"those Delaneys,”' was
the general verdict. “There’s not much
they’d stop at when they’re cornered.”
But Curdie had only laughed and said he
was built' on the same principle. He had
got Con Delaney one long stretch for kill-
ing his cattle for beef, and meant, to show
both of them that he was determined to
keep them off'his hack country. A proud,
overbearing man, violent in words and im-
pulses, Curdie found his chief delight in all
kinds of conflicts, - He was active in liti-
gation with his; neighbors, and travelling
drovers 'who'lined to bluff him found that he
had a' quick ' pair of hands. Naturally' he
gamed mote 1 respect than popularity.
That morning as he rode through the
emu-bush at the-bottom of the mulga ridges
he was stimulated by the thought of coming
in contact with Con Delaney again. While
Con was away, Steve, the younger brother,-
had taken jobs at horse-breaking and drov-
ing, and had earned an honest living in a per-
functory' kind of way. It was only when they
were together that there was any devil in
Steve, - and then they were ‘a formidable
pair, for they were both good bushmen.
Fifteen miles out from the homestead
Curdie came across some of their work in
a patch of sandalwood scrub, and dis-
mounted ‘ from his horse. A red steer, too
Weak to move, was lying on its side' with
its low r er jaW wedged into an empty cyanide
iin. The sight of it made Curdie’s
passion rise more violently than if he had
found it shot. With his knee on the beast’s
neclr he gripped the left horn and tried to
yrork the tin off its jaw.
“Well, Curdie,” said a voice behind him,
“is it a young poddie you’re feeding?”
He had been so preoccupied with his
Work that he had not heard the sound of
horse’s hoofs in the undergrowth, and when
he stood up his face went nearly purple.
•Con. Delaney, a big man.with heavy shouh.
ders that sloped down to lean, flat thighs,
was lounging in his saddle and regarding
him with good-natured amusement.
“You, Delaney!” barked out Curdie.
“How’s St. Helena getting on?”
“Well enough,” said Delaney easily.
“But it looks- as if you’ve lost a good steer.
The brutes Save got too much curiosity
in poking round after ‘empty tins.”
The bloodj flew to Curdie’s head.
“Never mfnd,” he said, “I’ll take the pay-
ment out of you, Delaney. Scatter cyanide
about the ipace, would you? Come off that
horse, you-waster, and put up your hands.”
In all matters of action Curdie was more
remarkabld for courage than for judgment.
He took £old of Delaney’s leg and tried to
pull him from his horse, but Delaney wjas
the heavier man and had the upper posi-
tion. Three minutes later when Steve
drove out of the scrub in his spring-cart the
two men w r ere wrestling on the . ground,
with Con: uppermost. ■' -
“Sling- me some greenhide, Steve,” he
called out casually; “I’ve thrown the beast,
but I can’t tie him down.” .
■ Curdie was lying on his back, the strength
goAi: out of him.
Jffljfou thug!” he muttered. “Why couldn’t
fSK put up your hands like a man?”
• “Why didn’t you—last time we met in
dourt?” countered Delaney easily.
Curdie made a final struggle for the free-
dom of his hands.
“Let me go,” lie bargained, “and I’ll take
on the two of you, together or one after
tfre other.”
“Nothing doing,” said Delaney; “it would
be poor sport for Steve and me,”
He fastened Curdie’s hands and feet, and
then whipping off his neckerchief bandaged
it tightly over the prostrate man’s eyes.
He was an easy-going man, slow iii'speech,
and anger, but for more than a year he had
had too much time to brood on what he would
do to Curdie if they met again. And this
long feud had laid bare the steel in him.
Curdie felt himself being lifted into the
cart and driven away. He thought of noth-
ing .‘it first bjlit the humiliation, of his
defeat and the way other men ■would laugh
a<t him. The sun had risen high and shone
full on his face, and the heap of ’possum-
skins near his head gave out a stfohg smell.
When an hour had passed and the cart still
rumbled on, he began to wonder what they *
meant to do with him. For a certainty Tt
would he something that would make.him'
look ridiculous in the eyes of the men
round about.
; Suddenly when they stopped at the creek
for zt drink he heard Con Delaney say: -
“It passes the bridge just after one.
Plenty time yet.” - \ • -
Curdie’s imagination had, always been as
active as the mechanical part'of his brain. 1
It began to work at' high pressure now.
The very fact that the world was shut out
fkom his eyes made it fill with sinister’
possibilities and he fancied he had noticed;
something quite' new ‘ in-- Delaney’s eyes,
something davhge , and relentless, He
strained his ears to catch their talk, but it
was drowned by- the- rattle- of-the spring-
cart, and his mind leapt forward to con-
struct a situation out of the words he had
heard. About twenty miles from the Kundra
back-country ran the main railway to the
coast, and there was a bridge' over Split-
ter’s Creek which the down mail would
cross just after one!
“What'S your 'game, Delaney?” he asked *
nervily when the cart stopped. “If you’re
gping to make a fool of me th.e.laugh won’t
be on your'side-in the end.” > -
“Oh, I’ll chance that,” said ' Dfelaney;
easily. “And, anyway, this -is ; tlie end."
We’ve had enough of Kundra, Steve and
me.”' ~ * ■' -
Curdie - lay rigid in the, cart, his mind •
violently - active 1 , while tile J clear ■ ringing
blows of an axe- sounded, out from twenty
yards way. Courage had' hitherto been as
a part of him as his hands, but, it
was a courage that was dependent on his
quick sight and physical strength, .Now that
he was robbed of these, things he felt curi-
ously weak and futile, , like a bullock that
had been dropped in the crush.
“Whaffs. your game, Delaney?” he per-:
sisted when they came back.'
“You’ll know-soon-enough,” the elder-bro-
ther ass'dred him..
He felt himself being lifted from the hart,
and then tied down, spread-eagle fashion,
with something cool like a steel rail under
the nape of his neck. For a while he strug-
gled with spasmodic bursts of energy, but it
was all so useless that he gave it up.' The
odds were all against him, apd he was only
making himself look ‘ridiculous in their eyes.
He determined to reserve his strength for S
big effort later on.
A laffgh, and the'rattle of the springcarff
a" hundred yards away told him they were
gone. It was only then that the 'J nil horror'
of his iposition burst upon Curdie. , The
chance jwords he had caught from .Con
Delaney began, to run up and down, through
lps spreading dismay and subtler terror,
for his Imagination filled in all the .details,
that his eyes could not see.- He was tying on
the rails near the; Splitter’s Creek. Bridge,
waiting. for the -mailrtrain that passed just
after one! ;
Curdip’s first, effort when he realised this
was to make automatic and violent struggles
with eajch of. his limbs >in turn: 6ot the
Delaney boys had: done their work well.
Once when he exerted both arms together he
thought, he felt, the . steel rail being: torn up
from its bed, but the wet greenhide only
tightened on-hia wrists, He ceased" at last,
utterly exhausted, and let his mind have free.
play, j ; . . .
By trje feel of the sun on his face he kpe.w..
it'must be nearly one o’clock. At that time
Bryce had arranged to come over from
ne'xt station to' see aboiit agistpaent for sojgie"
store cattle he had just bought. -He would
he puzzled at finding him not at home, but
there would be no means of ascertaining-
where he had gone.
Curdie’s mind concentrated on-the rail at
the'back of his neck. At one time it seemed
cold as ice,..chilling him to the marrow; ‘at
another it was hot as a poker, burning
through his skin. It was the same with the
other rail on which tHe-cfflvpS'of his legs
(Honiinued on next page;)


KIDNEY COMPLAINT MAKES HOME A HOSPITAL
A gloom is cast over the home when one of the family is taken with kidney complaint. His sallow complexion, his heavy
eyes, his hopeless expression, all awaken sympathy and tell of the suffering he is enduring. He leaves his meals half-finished,
and when he rises from a chair he turns dizzy with the agonising pain, and his hand flies to his back.
Many men and women living in our own neighborhood have been cured to STAY cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the
soecial kidney and bladder medicine. The genuine Doan’s Pills gently restore health to the delicate kidney organism, helping
Every Ptcrure
Te/Is A Story
Price 2/9 pgr bottle, or post free from Foster,
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
the kidneys to purify the blood and drive out the liquid waste that is the
cause of backaches, sleeplessness, rheumatism, urinary disorders, gravel,
stone in the bladder, and the fatal Bright’s disease.
People who suffered from kidney disorders tell here how Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured them years ago, and to-day they are still enjoying splendid
health. Their lasting cures will encourage you.
Doan’s Pills Give Lasting Benefit.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
12 YEARS CURED
Mr. Lewis Williams, 602 Botany Road, Botany,
Sydney, says:— “l was a great sufferer with my
back, and the pain was at times so bad that 1
have had to leave my work and go home. I also
had to walk about in a bent position, and I could
not straighten without increased suffering. I used
various preparations, but only got slight tempo-
rary relief. Reading of cures effected by Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills, I decided to try them.
One bottle eased the pain, and the second com-
pleted my cure. This did not happen yesterday,
but about seven years ago, and I have had no
sign of backache all that time, so it is not mere
temporary relief but a perfect cure. I am always
advising my friends to use Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills, and take this opportunity to publicly
recommend them.”
Five years later Mrs. Williams says:—“My
husband is still well, and has been free of back-
ache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
him twelve years ago.”
7 YEARS CURED.
Mrs. xV. Higgins, “Elsinore,” Park Road. Mas-
cot. Sydney, says:—“My husband suffered from
urinary trouble and backache for some time. The
secretions were seriously disordered, being thick
and cloudy and difficult to pass. llis back was
always aching, and made every movement a tor-
ture. Sometimes he would scream out, the pain
was so severe. He tried all sorts of remedies, but
all to no purpose. He was advised to use Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills by a man who had been
cured of serious trouble by this remedy. He sent
for some, and after taking two bottles felt so
much better that he went on with them. Six
bottles cured him. He has no backache now, and
the secretions are clean and regular. In fact, he
is a different man in ‘health and spirits, thanks to
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Seven vears later Mrs. Higgins says:—“l am
pleased to be able to state my husband has been
perfectly well ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured him seven years ago.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
rested. He could feel it alternately burning
and chilling him through his trousers, and
the physical agony of it was intolerable.
He tried to relieve himself by visualising
the spot where he lay. He knew the place
well. It must be on the western side of the
bridge that he was lying, and about a
hundred yards to the right of him the
railway twisted round a high embankment,
crowned with a thin growth of sandalwood.
That was the direction from, which the
train would come, and his main fear was
that the driver would be unable to see him
in time. He was keeping a deliberate com-
mand over his thoughts and emotions, and
he was determined to yell out with the full
force of his lungs when the time came.
But a dull, vibrating movement of the
rails began to communicate itself to his
whole body, and his imagination leapt out
of control. He knew it could be nothing
but the train, though perhaps it was more
than a mile away. Every sense of his body
seemed to have been sharpened, and his
ears throbbed with a continual thrumming
while his heart quickened its movement. It
was terrible to have to lie still and listen
to that uncontrollable thumping’ of liis
heart. Somehow it seemed to have grown .
bigger, as if the congested blood in his
body had made it swell. lie found himself
crying out in a staccato sort of way, apart
from his desire or will.
The vibration increased till it became a‘
f'oar like that of a flooded river. Curdie
became fascinated by his mental image of
the train. It was rattling down on him
at the rate of twenty, thirty, forty miles
an hour, and he could feel the rails groan
under the mammoth weight of it. He felt
that if he did not stop it soon the drums
of his ears would burst with sheer disten-
sion. The sweat trickled down his fore-
head and under the bandages that covered
his eyes.
A whistle suddenly tore through him
like a. ragged bullet, crashing a path
through his tissues. The train could not
be more than twenty yards away now, and
it had swollen to nightmare size, bearing
down upon him with irresistible speed. He
could feel the hot glare of its furnaces and
the breath of steam on his face. He tried
to shout, but bis breath dried up in his
throat. A dozen times he saw it pass over
him, grinding him down into the quarried
stones of the railway-bed. But it was the
action of his heart that' troubled him most.
It seetned to have swollen out'of all propor-
tion. and he tried to expand his chest to
give it room, to hold his breath till the
agony passed. Then something stopped
with a jerk.
* * * *
One of the things that stopped was
Bryce’s buggy. Bryce himself had whistled
at the object by the stock-route gate, but
it took no notice, so he reined up and jumped
down from his seat. The sight of a man
spread-eagled on a couple of well-staked
sppljngs roused his sense of humor at first,
and' then his face suddenly sobered.
“Good God, it’s Curdie ! Those Delaney
boys have been having a lark with him.”
He bent over Curdie and shouted in liis
ear, but there was no response. He lifted
the head to untie the bandage, but it fell
back limply. Curdie had been dead for
nearly a minute.
VANCE PALMER.
The Way of the Windbag.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE winter dawn is cold and raw. Rain
falls dismally, and the seaport of Car-
cliff is enshrouded in a depressing
gloom. Through the musky, smoke-laden
mist the masts and funnels of vessels of all
nations extend along the docks, growing
fainter in the distance until they become
lost in the lowering pall. Above the patter-
ing rain can be heard the muffled roar of
coal sliding down the massive chutes of the
coal-hoists, and the clanging noises and
tooting whistles usually associated with coal-
loading ports. The dock water is oily and
coal-streaked, and the outlook generally
desolate.
Lying to a buoy in the East Bute Dock is
the Oldham, a square-yarded barque of 2500
tons loaded to her marks and preparing for
a voyage to the West Coast Bf South
America.
A shaky growler draws up on the dock-
side. Out of it jumps a |ad has come
to join the vessel as an apprentice. He is
cold and hungry, and looks'ijt. A grimy
rigger sculls off a grimier dock-boat half-
filled with water anfl coal. Assisted —though
not without grumbles —fcjy the beery-faced
cabby, the sea-chest, sailor’s bag and
“donkey’s breakfast” (cheap, straw mat-
tress) are passed ifato the boat. Then the
newchum adds himself to the cargo, and the
rigger shoves off.
The coal-sodden rope-ladder hangs over
the ship’s side in the Avake of a scupper hole.
The other apprentices—all in dungarees and
sea-boots—are washing the deck, and just as
the boat arrives alongside a rush of coaly
water squirts out of the hole and drenches
the youth and his belongings. He immedi-
ately looks as wet and dirty as the lads
above, who are to be his shipmates.
Besides tliq boys there are a few tobacco-
chewing riggers wqrking by, bending sails
and preparing ship for sea. The sailors,
according to custom, join when she is ready
to sail. Walking to and fro under the break
of the poop, with his hands in his trousers’
pockets, is a fat little tub-shaped man in an
old tweed suit and peaked cap. He wears a
close-cropped grey bqard, smokes a cigarette,
and is plainly a person of importance.
The new boy wades aft and reports him-
self. “Armitage, hey?” says the fat Scotch
skipper. “You’ve been a bluidy long time
making up yer time to join.... D’ye know
ye nearly missed the skip, hey? Fine state
of things!” The commander emphasises his
annoyance bv expectorating, and then snaps,
“Get into a working rig and clear them
blasted scuppers.”
Armitage stammers a humble apology, and
gropes his way into the apprentices’ room,
under the poop. The place is filled with sea-
chests, bunks and rubbish. After much delv-
ing, he appears on deck in a dungaree suit,
which is, through some mistake of the out-
fitter’s, two sizes too small, a Tam-o’-Shanter
cap and gum boots. He joins the other
boys, and inquires anxiously about the “chief
officer” and his disposition. The boys titter,
and explain that, in a “windbag,” the chief
officer is called “the mate.” Having had
some experience, they recommend dodging
him as much as possible.
The riggers have spread out a new topsail
along the deck preparatory to sending it
aloft to be bent. The long, thin steward,
with a bushy, snuff and-butter-colored beard
stained under the mouth with tobacco juice,
suddenly emerges from the galley with a kid
of steaming soup. He is just drunk enough
to find it difficult to pass the cabin-dinner
aft. In one of his “tacks” he trips and lands
sprawling, shooting the tray’s greasy contents
over the sail. An uncouth-looking gentle-
man directs a torrent of inspired blasphemy
at the fuddled fool responsible. The boys
shudder: Armitage shudders again when he
is informed in an aside that the eloquent
gentleman is the mate.
rn , , , . ~ , ... . , r ■„
The mate, who is addressed as Mr. Mac,
resembles a Backblock farmer rather than a
sailor. His face is wrinkled, and his age
difficult to guess. He wears a short, bristly,
iron-grey moustache and tuft on his chin:
Jatnbed on to his ears is an ancient
pumpkin-colored felt hat. He has* on a
cardigan jacket, which might have been
black once, but is now green with salt
water. Round his neck is a red ban-
dana handkerchief, and his legs are thrust
to the thighs in gum boots. Sometimes he
chews his rank tobacco; at other times he
smokes it in a discolored clay pipe with a
home-made tin cap. He waddles with a deep
sea roll round the decks, and often holds
discourse with himself in Gaelic. In lighter
moments he bursts out in weird and unintel-
lig'ble son"
■ , ... ,
The dismal day passes, and, for a treat,
the boys are allowed ashore in the evening.
After a blow-out on ham and eggs, they do
the dress-circle at a play. On their return
through the dock slums they are held up for
money by two roughs. As the bummers are
drunk the boys manage to stousli them sufti-
ciently to escape unharmed. And so to
About the dead centre of the night a hurri-
cane-lamp flashes in the half-deck doorway,
and the night-watchman gruffly shouts: “Get
out of this, me hearties! Shift ship!” The
lads stretch themselves, and someone groans
that it is just three o’clock. Coming out,
they find that the rain has stopped at last,
but a keen wind pierces them through as
they heave round the capstan on the fo’c’s’le-
head. In an hour the ship is through the
dock gates and tied up at the pier. Then
they rush back to their bunks, but fiud that
they are too cold to sleep. At six they
turn-to for the day and take in stores, casks.,
ropes, cases, spuds and the hundred and one
requisites for a long voyage.
After breakfast the sailors arrive—a crew
"from all the world, drunk and raising
Cain.” Their revelries about the decks and
in the fo’c’s’le are eye-openers to the new
apprentices. To the novice there is a grim
fascination in watching a man casually deal
out a black eye to a bosom friend, or a drunk
slipping backwards down a ladder to land in
a heap on the deck with a gash under his
chin.
After a lot of hoarse shouting, swearing
and falling about, the tow-line is passed
along and payed out to the tug-boat under
the bows. The tug whistles shrilly, steams
ahead, stretches out the line, and the ship’s
ropes are cast off. A drunken, slobbering
wreck of humanity, supported by two cob-
bers, reels on to the pier, and is roughly
bundled on to the deck, to be immediately fol-
lowed by his bag and “donkey’s breakfast.”
This is a “pier-head jumper”—hurriedly pro-
cured to fill the place of an absentee. He
doesn’t know what he is aboard or where he
is bound to. It happens to be South
America, but it would be all the same if it
were China or Australia.
As the ship is towed down Channel the
more sober sailors and the boys loose and
set sail. It is hard work with reduced hands.
The apprentices work cheerily enough until
the ocean swell forces them to break oft' one
by one and say what they have to say over
the rail.
An hour after the ship’s departure Mr.
Williams, the dumpy second mate, appears
in a stupefied state from his cabin. He is
getting sober, but has still some way to go.
He stands on deck with a dazed look in his
watery blue eyes, and mutters inarticulate
nothings into liis beer-matted moustache. The
surroundings evidently puzzle him. In his
reverie he lifts his weather-worn peaked cap
to scratch his bald head, and gazes inanely
up and down the masts. At length, ufter
nearly slipping into the lee-waterway, he
addresses himself to the group of boys
struggling at the fore topsail halliards:
“Hi, you!" he bawls, “this is a bleedin’
windbag, ain’t it?”
“Yes, sir,” says the apprentice addressed.
“Well, I’m blithered !” remarks the certi-
ficated officer. “I thought I was signing on
a bluidy steamboat yesterday!”
With philosophical fortitude he accepts
the inevitable. The mate harshly requests
him to “go below,” and incidentally calls him
a sanguinary Welsh cow.
It is dusk when the vessel reaches Lundy
Island. The tug oases speed and the tow-
line is let go with a splash. As she drops
abreast of the ship she throws a heaving
line, and the last letters and a couple of
pounds of hard tobacco are hauled across.
The tug-boat skipper waves his old bowler
hat, shouts out “A pleasant voyage,” and
sails away full speed up Channel.
Night creeps over the sea; Lundy Island
fades; and the homeland swiftly dis-
appears in the darkness. The wind is light
and the sails flap as the vessel lurches to
windward in the increasing swell. Watches
are set, and another “windbag,” filled with
coal and sore-heads, has set out on her long
voyage.
G. S. DOORLY.


ser
WESTINCHOUSE
Joint Chain Drives
mm
The Rocker-Joint
by its rolling
action eliminates
rubbing friction;
the pins, being
dead' hard, en-
sure long life.
10 -h.p. Drive — '9 Pitch x '2lin. wide,
r.p.m 875/360.
The true me-
chanical mov e-
inents are verified
by THE SILENCE
whilst working.
Attention and
upkeep ARE
NIL.
Your power account will be decidedly reduced by the installation
of one of our drives, and your output greatly increased.
Wheels manufactured at our works and Chain supplied from
local Stocks.
Head Office -
The Westinghouse Brake
Queensland Agents—HOLME'? & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office -99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
[3
e 2&
r
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves 5 per cent . on
Automobile
Fire Insurance.
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight., 6Jto. ; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents . Please write .
bd
gh
have provided perfect and lasting
Saddle comfort for every cyclist
and motor cyclist—'whatever
his weight or build, what-
ever machine he ridcs._/
OF ALL
DEALERS.
■a
tl
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to ai! consignments! Why not give them a trim
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY:
\
%
TH&EJEJ '-JZTBB&n TYKES
Spencer
laurels
Moulton tyres
11 over the
are gaining
for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Lfd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE t
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS;, it*, MADRAS STREET.
p.c.b.— 7o
dty
Bcccham'sPills
may be relied upon, at all times, to exercise a tonic,
cleansing, healing influence upon the digestive organs.
A sensible use of this well-known specific is generally
all that is needed to relieve and remove those disorders
of the stomach liver and bowels, which are always
associated with dyspepsia in any form. Beeeham’s Pills
are unfailing as a corrective and invaluable as a safe
stimulant of that important organ, the liver, upon the
efficient action of which so much depends.. As a cure
for constipation and for removing its attendant discom-
forts and dangers there is no more reliable remedy. In
fact, as an aid to health generally, the judicious use of
Beecham s Pills is strongly recommended. They are
M Boon to All
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10(36 pills), 1/li (56 pills) & 2/9 (lfcB pills).
d
To make tube screwing faster, easier
and more accurate, use
f
OSTER Bulldoa Pie Stocks
the tools with five big features: (1) Self-locking, adjustable
dies, (2) self-centreing guides, (8) no running back over
newly-cut screws, (4) no loose bushings to lose, (5) no
breakable small parts. Eleven convenient sizes. Write
for catalog.
THE OSTER MFG. CO., Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria.
Oster Screwing
Tackle, Dies
and Extra Parts
are carried in
stock by
Ironmongers,
Machinery and
Hardware and
Plumbing
Supply Houses.
bs
If any illustration appearing in 'Xiik
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The First Complete Outfit
of First-Class Tools.
MoPherson Tool Chests contain an assortment of High-grade Tools for home,
farm, or up-to-date tradesmen.
Bach tool is by a leading maker and selected for its utility—you get “Disston s
Saws, “Mathiesoii’s” Planes, and so on.
Tools used every day by experts.
With a Chest like this, you have the right tool for every use and a place for
every tool.
The Chest, too, is High-grade, well made, with dovetailed corners, nicely finished
and varnished, and has lock and key.
Baying Tools in “dribs and drabs” is expensive. McPherson Tool Chests
provide an economical method of acquiring a complete kit for farm and workshop
use.
We make the Chests in 14 varieties, from 28/6 with 14 Tools, to £l4/5/-
with 89 Tools.
SENT) ALONG FOR SPECIAL T.B. FOLDER.
Post Free Everywhere.
MCPKersons)
Proprietary Limited
TOOL MERCHANTS,
ESTABLISHED 57 YEARS.
91-65 BATHURST STREET,
SYDNEY, N. S. WALES.
554-66 and 562-68 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA.


Tlie AU-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGMOVTT
LEATHER
LTI
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Govei'nmeius.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Squarv SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
High-Speed Steel
Drills for Engineers.
“ULTRA CAPITAL” QUALITY.
dhg
?• £ a ~ 1 71. lar&e stocks in sizes l-Bin.
to 2 7-16 in. dia.
“CAPITAL” QUALITY „ to 21 „.
An Eagle on a Globe Brand S:lver Steel 'Rods
In 13in. lengths.
FOR FINE TOOLS. Sizes Ito 60. l-Bin. to Jin. dia.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Australian
Offices—
f 379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne •
-U6 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle*
lßrisbane: John Reid & Nephews; Adelaide: Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd
Sheffield, England.
HAROIE’S
GENUINE
‘FIBRO-CEMENT’*
Sheets & Slates for all Building Purposes.
REXILITE”
BRITISH
MADE-
Flat Hoofing anti Dampcourse
(Approved by Public Works Departments)
he Building Board madefrom Root Fibres
I'or Interior Walls and Ceilings.
Writs for Samples from
JAMES HARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne; “Courier” Buildings,
Brisbane; and at Adelaide.
*
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNAPPS
Gang Milking Machines.=Tangye Oil Engines.
The above well-known Combination has a great Reputation in all Dairying
districts and gives genuine satisfaction in each and every instance.
DON’T Experiment with inferior machines—install one of our High-class and Fully
Guaranteed Milking Plants right away. It will solve all your Gabor difficulties.
Dalgety & Company Limited
Miller’s Point,
9 SYDNEY.
2-Cow GANE Releaser Milking Plant, driven by Tangye Oil Engine.
AGENCIES
T£JfS Y £»SJH£ ,e f B i , iL.f Benzine Engines. Suction Cas Plants, Pumps of all types. CLAYTON & I
JOHN RU NfiLE Rt SfiNfi 1 flhafFonftara P AUC h a uiaiim aau a liAimniii am «...
H3C
THE
Crutching Machines
overcome the Blowfly pest.
The “Wolseley” Crutching Plant is made to meet the requirements of both large and small dock-holders.
Thoroughly dependable and efficient and highly praised wherever used.
Illustrated is the “Wolseley” Electric Crutching Outfit, complete with Engine and Dynamo, capable of
driving six stands. IN STO CK FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
DALGETY (Si COMPANY LTD., Australasian Agents. All Branches.
r
i
hi m
LiJ-
AA
m\
The same
reliable workmanship and material
are there, and they are now
manufactured in N»S»W• !
dodge rockbreakers
With Manganese Steel Jaw Plates.
Formerly these Machines were imported from America, but we are now manufacturing
them locally (with the exception of the Manganese Jaw Plates).
Four Sizes Carried in Stock. Capacity 1-12 Tons per hour.
ENCOURAGE LOCAL ENTERPRISE AND SEND US YOUR ENQUIRIES.
PARKE ®. LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St„ Sydney, N.S.W.
PREVENTION BETTER THAN CURE.
Modern Sanitation demands the Destruction of all Refuse as
the only means of eliminating that growing peril, the Fly Pest.
The “CUTHRIDC” DESTRUCTOR
Provides the Best and Cheapest Means for doing this —saves Doctors’ Bills.
Prices and Particulars
a
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, SYDNEY.
