

3
SPIRIT SUPERB.
LISTEN!
Our Brave Australian Boys are Calling for YOUR HELP!
The traditions of your race demand a willing and noble response.
Will you fail them in this hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF YOUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS IT TSJ ¥ I f
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written. *—✓ *wJL I
R ‘ G ~ WATKINS C ,r< >» and Machinery Merchants, 107 Ken* Street, Sy dney.
agifußi flirto*l
m
ism w
On oil Classes of Securi^
DISCOUNTED
Easy Terms &Lowest Interest
NWMONT DE PIETE*D-&rC?UP
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREA.GH ST SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Dally Telegraph" New Building.
18G Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
150 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
FIFTY PAGE BOOK-POST FR"L
wmtu
SLEEP IN On
Outdoors
in COMFORT
FOR HOTELS
FLATS, AND
Bungalows
REVOLVES IN
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO.
330 GEORGE ST (near G.p o ), SYDNEY.
THE BEST !
m
a
m
sa
a
£-2
®£ PL
a
m
tkL
mmmm,
'<2
RAWSON MOODY ALL-STEEL FENCE.
built with powerful steel posts and wire, and
possessing wonderful advantages over wooden
post fences, as it saves 80 per ec:.t. in erection
labor and weighs only 25 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
1 cr full particn.ars write to The Rawson Moody Mfg\ Co., 343 Kent St.,
Sydney, or send for an Illustrated Catalogue B.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
Ju
nket^
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
1
,V W V:
m
K
*■,
“SCRUTTON’S” for OIL ENCINES.
Positively THE “Right Firm” to supply you with the WORLD’S BEST (English or American).
Only a few left. Order Early to avoid disappointment.
CASH or EASY TERMS.
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
“ Where the Best Engines are Sold. ”
The Finest
Stimulant.
BEAVER STODT
(Guinness’)
Pure and
Nourishing.
Poilite
CCMtNT
.axmod
99
Asbestos Cement Sheets
and Tiles.
(BritisH Made)
“POILITE” SHEETS for Walls,
Ceilings, Partitions, etc., are
FIRE AND DECAY PROOF, ATTRACTIVE IN APPEARANCE,
LOW IN COST, DURABLE AS STONE, EASILY ERECTED,
COOL IN SUMMER, WARM IN WINTER. Write for Catalog “A.”
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. 115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD. 499-501 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
npAi run
TOOTH
Gives a Sense of Clean
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
CPC7AMC
LAVENDER
The Bulletin
V01.38.—N0. 1959.]
[Thursday, August 30; 191 7.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A SPIRIT OF QUALITY.
GILBEY’S DRY GIN.
PURE and WHOLESOME.
SEE THAT YOU GET GILBEY’S.
This celebrated Gin is
specially recommended
for those suffering
from
KIDNEY
COMPLAINTS
and
RHEUMATISM.
T 7CK.ER CO., Sydney, Sole Agents.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold
Everywhere
in Tins,
Price 16.
The Great Antiseptic
for COUGHS, COLDS,
INFLUENZA AND
THE PREVENTION
OF CONSUMPTION.
Sent Post Free on receipt of stamps, If 6, any State, by Sole Manufacturers.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY,
The Red page
The Aerial Age is Here
Claud Grahame-White and Harry Harper
tell us in non-teeimjeal language of the
extraordinary progress made in aviation
under the stress of war. In Air Power;
A' aval, Military , Qommercial (Chapman and
Ha'll, per Sydaej- Book Club) the authors
remark that the next great war will begin
where this leaves off, and it will be a war of
the air, possibly over and won in 24 hours.
They suggest that it may be found possible
to defend a country from aircraft by causing
atmospheric disturbances by the discharge
of high explosives, or by charging certain
areas of the air with electricity, . which
would" interfere with the electrical ignition of
the aeroplane engines. The raiding aero-
plane of the immediate future will be noise-
less and practically invisible; and they dis-
!puss seriously the suggestion that all adinm-
trative buildings, arsenals and factories
ould be housed below ground. With all
ir vessels submarines, and all our cities
igouts, this world would be a pleasant
11 ace to live in. And among the possibilities
air warfare is the gassing of the inhabi-
nts of whole provinces by poisonous fumes
leased from hostile aeroplanes. “The fate
vaiting a nation which lags behind in the
ce for aerial power may prove terrible. It
ay find itself ravaged, defeated and ren-
ted helpless.... as the result of a blow
hich is struck and completed within a few
)urs.”
However, strategy, which on sea or land
is been worked threadbare, will again be
ossible in the air. The handling of an
nmense air fleet, extraordinarily mobile,
ad moving at speeds unknown on laud or sea,
ill give his chance to the coming Napoleon
? the air. Another possibility is the in-
ision by an army landed by aircraft, with
i course light artillery. The authors deplore
ae fact that this war has come too soon for
viation.
What the public does not know is that the
lodern aeroplane is inherently stable: that
!, no matter how it is twisted or upset by
usts, it is so scientifically designed that
utomatically it immediately rights itself
rithout the necessity of any effort by the
Hot. It is not worth while to make the
far machine thus automatically stable:
peed, weight-carrying ability, the necessity
or armor and other vital considerations take
ireeedence over mere automatic stability.
In inherentlv stable machine attacked by
. machine that had greater speed owing to
ts special unstable design would be de-
troyed. If the modern . stable machine
urns upside down, side-slips or falls tail
irst, it automatically resumes its normal
losition for flight. “It is impossible for the
vind, or for a pilot, even by a deliberate
aishandling, to force such a machine more
han.temporarily from its normal flying posi-
ion. Given only sufficient air space, the
raft will recover itself.” This is the
nachine that will astonish the commercial
vorld after the war.
The most interesting portion of the book
'or a public that will have to get accustomed
;o air travel is the authors’ discussion upon
its safety. As long as the aeroplane is in
notion, it is supported by its cushion of air,
iust as safely and surely as is a railway
rain on its metals, or a motor-car on its
•oads. Air travel of the future will possess
i luxury and a comfort unknown and im-
possible on either land or sea. The oscilla-
tion and grind of wheels of a train will be
lacking in air travel. There will be no
vibration from engines, no seasickness, no
air sickness, “for machines will drive through
Ernsts and eddies with a momentum like that
of some huge projectile,” no noise except a
faint continuous moan, made by the air as
it rushes past the polished hull. There will
be no feeling whatever of earth contact, no
tiring sense of movement for the eyes, as in
the case of trains. The earth, where it can
be seen at all from the clouds, will be far
below. In case of engine breakdown, a dan-
ger hardly to be feared at all, owing to the
provision of a number of motors for every
machine and the carrying of repairing
mechanists, there will be on every trade
route a series of aerodromes, down to which
a damaged machine may safely glide.
And it is safer to be in an aero-
plane in case of an accident than .in
a motor-car: if a motor-car's steering
gear goes wrong the accident is immediate,
buf if an aeroplane gets out of control the
pilot has plenty of time to recover himself, or
allow the machine to right itself. There are
no fences to hit until lie reaches the ground:
the motorist hits his fences a second after
his mistake or mishap. Curiously, too, there
is less nerve strain on the aeronaut than
on the motorist. He has not to dodge pedes-
trians, and his road is wide enough to obvi-
ate any possibility of collision. And instead
of breathing a mixture of dust and petrol
fumes, as do motorists on a main road, the
aerial tourist breathes the sort of air that
we go to the mountains to breathe. In fact,
doctors in the immediate future will pre-
scribe aerial tours for the business man suf-
fering from nerve strain.
J*
The authors are rather discouraging as
to the cost of aerial touring, though they
prophesy with confidence that as. soon as
there is a certain standardisation in manu-
facture a high-class touring aeroplane will
cost no more than a first-class motor-car;
while the running costs will be less. Com-
pare, for instance, the wear on aeroplane
tyres and on motor tyres. Aeroplanes will,
of course, soon be used for the carrying of
mails and of urgently wanted goods.; they
should prove cheaper than our present means
in the sparsely-settled parts of Australia.
“The first machines used for passenger
work may carry either 25 or 50 people.
Existing-type aeroplanes. with motors
developing 500 h.p., have been able to raise
the weight of nearly 30 passengers. With
increases in engine-power, and with improve-
ments in construction which will yield a
greater power for a given weight, the institu-
tion of the first passenger services should
follow within a year or so of the termination
of war.” But the authors differ from the
I conclusions l-eached by a projected passenger
aeroplane company which intends to ply be-
tween India and England, ultimately taking
in Australia. The chairman of that company
recently announced that it would be cheaper
to travel by aeroplane than by steamship,
the chief saving being of course due to the
tremendous shortening of the journey and
the smallness of the crew carried. The
authors think that till aerial travelling is
popularised, very high fares must be charged,
and that journeys will have to be run at a
loss, owing to the inability of the aircraft
to obtain full and regular complements of
passengers. And “if you can carry passen-
gers by air at a speed twice as great as
that of the fastest express train, you are
entitled to demand higher fares.” The authors
aptly point out that as the taxi, more expen-
sive than the-cab, immediately created its
own public, a new public that was prepared
to pay higher rates for speed, so the aero-
plane, with its wonderful increase in speed
and comfort, will create a similar new public.
A book such as this will help to bring that
public into being.
Swinburne
The much-heralded Life of Algernon
Charles Swinburne, by Edmund Gosse (Mac-
millan, per Dymock’s Library), turns out to
be the conventional discreet official biogra-
phy of a literary figure. It is full of hints
and repressions: an admirable presenta-
tion of the poet; the man seld'om in-
trudes. Swinburne’s life-long failing is 'the
subject of innumerable hints, but the reader
is left in doubt whether it was wine, woman
or something worse. For the lack of a little
plain speech Gosse subjects the memory of
his friend to the accusation of unpleasant
vices. If Swinburne was the victim of fre-
quent bouts of drunkenness why not say so,
and thus slay forever these suspicions put
into his readers’ minds by Gosse’s good
manners ?
Swinburne was an extraordinary being.
“His physical strangeness exceeded, per-
haps, that of any other entirely sane man of
imaginative genius whose characteristics
have been preserved for us.” He was sft.
4|in. high, with a tremendous head, made
more extraordinary by his fluffed-out red
hair. It looked like a balloon, tethered to a
ridiculously tiny frame. His chin was weak
and receding, but he had a lofty dome of a
brow, curiously like Shakespeare's. “A tropi-
cal bird, high-crested, long-beaked, quick-
moving, with rapid utterance and screams of
humor.” An extremely restless man, his
hands were always jerking and his toes
always skipping. Gosse notes as his great-
est outward peculiarity “a kind of fairy
look,” which he had never seen repeated in
any other human being. Among so many
flattering descriptions of the poet it is a
relief to come across the opinion of a con-
temporary at Eton that he was “a horrid
little boy, with a big red head and a pasty
complexion, who looked as though a course
of physical exercise would have done him
good.”
J*
It must be remembered that Swinburne
never had to work for a living ; his family,
recognising his genius, saw to it that he had
an income, small but sufficient for his needs.
Ilis first book was the stillest of all
still-born books. But his second, Atalanta
in Calydon, sent him like a skyrocket into
celebrity. Here was “a new r poetic voice in
England, a voice so full and pure and vibrat-
ing that no one could for a moment question
its importance. As a matter of fact, no one
did question it; what was remarkable was
the unanimity with which the critics and the
public vied in welcoming a poet more subtle
and palpitating than any other who had
appeared since Shelley!” Without impugn-
ing the marvellous contents of that volume
it may be said that the public had been pre-
pared for this sensational debut by Swin-
burne’s coterie of now powerful friends, the
chief of whom knew everybody and was an
indefatigable wirepuller. Swinburne was
log-rolled into publicity, but, in the Ameri-
can phrase, he delivered the goods. And
Swinburne went on from success to.success.
He took a delight in shocking his prudish
public, and it paid. It is hard for us to
imagine ourselves back in that public or to
visualise their attitude to Swinburne. There
was even the threat of the criminal prosecu-
tion of the publisher, and in the celebrated
criticism in The Saturday Review Swin-
burne was termed “the libidinous laureate of
a pack of satyrs,” and told that he “re-
vealed to the world a mind all aflame with
the feverish carnality of a schoolboy over
the dirtiest passages m Lempriere. Bu
official Gosse refuses to divulge the name o
the writer of the review': the ieadei is
merely told that he was an Oxford man,
afterwards no less famous than Swinburne
himself.” Of course, we can guess, but why
should we have to? hv
The only public speech evei made by
Swinburne was when he was ashed to pro-
pose the toast of The Press at a public
dinner. Swinburne rose to his feet and
shrieked out the words: “Ihe press is a
damnable institution, a horrible institution,
a beastij' institution,” and then sank back
into his seat and closed his eyes. . , ,
In his old age, shepherded and dominated
bv Watts-Dunton he developed into a sturdy
little man: for the last 80 years of bis life
at Putney he ate like a caterpillar and slept
like a dormouse. A necessary pendant to
the character of this extraordinary bird-like
being is the tribute paid to his personal
courage. He was afraid of nothing, neithe
horse nor sea; he w r as a great rider tlioug i
not a good one, and more than, once he
risked his life in swimming. But it is curi-
ous to note of this pre-eminent poet of the
sea and glorious worshipper of its angriest
moods that the only storm he ever experi-
enced was one in the English Channel, which
delayed his boat a few hours; he went on
magnificently describing that solitary storm
in prose and verse all the rest of his lire.
A Bit of Brown Trouble
Lionel Curtis, that smart young English-
man with a mission to save the Britisn
Empire by riveting its component parts into
a rigid Federal Parliamentary system ruled
by a separate Imperial Parliament elected
by all the Dominions and the United King-
dom, has struck trouble in India. In the
review that this page (28/9/T6) gave of his
two valuable publications, The Problem of
the Commonwealth and The Commonwealth
of Nations, it was pointed out that his gran-
diose scheme was useless unless he couid.ht
the large brown slab of India into it, or at
least consider the case of India. Lionel
Curtis met this objection by visiting India.
A copy of a private letter written by him to
one of his Round Table group found its
way into the Indian press. At once a storm
of protest sprang up. It "was asserted that
Curtis had made a fatal mistake in travel-
ling with Valentine Chirol, “one of educated
India’s most deadly foes,” and in staying at
Government Houses, where he would meet
merely officials. The curious misapprehen-
sion taken by a section of the Indian press
was that The Round Table group aimed
at placing the Dominions in the position of
over-lords to India; whereas the predomi-
nant feeling in Australia is one strongly
adverse to having any say in India’s devel-
opment or government. Also, a phrase in
his letter led the educated Indian to infer
that Curtis had classed Indians with the
Negroes in Africa. The rumor spread that
Curtis had advocated “the subjection of
India to the colonies at the cost of blood-
shed” ! Whereupon Curtis has published A
Letter to the People of India (Macmillan),
in which he endeavors to allay the storm.
Curtis made the mistake of trying to bridge
the chasm that lies between the English and
the educated Indian. As The Round Table
is now regarded with hostility and distrust
by India, it appears to Curtis that the only
service it can now render to India is to re-
main silent. The factor which most im-
pressed him on his tour of the Dominions
was the rooted aversion we hold to any
scheme which means our sharing in the
government of India. “They feel as if there
were something inherently wrong in one
people ruling another.” Curtis made the
usual Englishman’s mistake of telling the
Indians the obvious fact that they “must
gradually be schooled in the management of
their national affairs.”
Unfortunately, as this page has already
pointed out, Lionel Curtis is unable to con-
ceive a scheme of union for the Empire that
does not involve a Parliament moulded on
that of Great Britain. He wishes to intro-
duce that European idea into India, appar-
ently assured that it would - work in the
hands of Orientals. In Australia there is a
growing discontent with party government;
Lionel Curtis hopes to fasten this out-worn
mechanism upon an Oriental country. By
the time he has got - the clumsy thing into
working order in\ India, Australia, at least,
will have found something better. That is
the cardinal weakness in all constitutions:
a constitution must have the possibility of
growth and evolution within it, else it dies.
And to tie the new and mottled British
Empire up in the red-tape of a constitution
is to strangle it. And apparently the final
result of Lionel Curtis’s stay in India is
that he wants his proposed Imperial Govern-
ment to have an Upper as well as a Lower
House—just when England has found out
the futility of the Lords, and Australia is
writhing under the constitutional incubus of
her Senate. His Imperial Upper House is
to provide a home for representatives of the
Feudatory States and the Islamic commu-
nity, who would not be able to find place in a
purely elective assembly. And whom would
Australia send to that House of Imperial
Peers? Or would we have the satisfaction
of remaining unrepresented, while Mahara-
jahs revised the bills submitted bv Aus-
tralian representatives in the Lower House?
It looks as if Lionel Curtis's grandiose
scheme is drowned somewhere in a sack in
the Indian Ocean, with something large and
brown tied round its neck.
Wanted: Australian Nursery
Rimes
“Ah Gee'’ writes: In our Australian litera-
ture there is a considerable gap which I
propose lied Pagan# should till. I mean
nursery rimes. Surely Australian nursery
songs are as important (nearly) as Austra-
lian drama or fiction. This field has been
almost entirely neglected, in spite of a large
and expectant public. But not an uncritical
public! Bet no contributor despise the nur-
sery rime. It is not easy to get exactly the
right touch of infantility—the proper blend
of humor and inconsequence. At present we
have to give our youngsters “Banbury Cross”
and “Dick Whittington” and “I’ve been to
London to see the Queen” —which are quite
out of place in this land of kangaroos, rabbits
and politicians. I am not suggesting mere
parodies of the present models. The same
general flavor, no doubt, should be main-
tained, but in subject and metre there is any
amount of room for originality.
The idea commends itself to this page. A
guinea will be given for the best nursery rime
written by an Australian —in these competi-
tions the term Australian always connotes
the Australasian —for Australian kiddies.
No parodies will be accepted, though some
excellent Australian versions of well-known
nursery rimes have been quoted on this page.
Competitors need not deliberately drag in
Australian references or Australian color—
an Australian kid wouldn’t. A good Aus-
tralian nursery rime may have no direct
reference to Australian conditions, yet may
be indubitably Australian in content. The
Australian kid has an outlook different from
that of an English kid: the sort of songs he
wants to sing will not be those that the
English kid sings. Entries for this difficult
competition must reach, and be addressed to,
this page by October »>,
Alex. E. Montgomery: One reason why
we do not write as we think (“Copabella,”
5/7/T7) is that, though we can formally set
forth the results of the thinking-process, the
process itself involves mental operations
much too swift and elusive to be intelligibly
clothed in words. And, even when the
thought-sequence is deliberate and objective
enough to crystallise into word-form, it
would, if spoken or written, come but partly
within the ken of hearer or reader. Even as
regards terms, rapid thinking makes much
use of “counters” —pausing not in its head-
long course to find the coin-of-the-realm
which has to be produced if we would ad-
equately present our ideas in print. Fur-
ther, it is an unwritten law of ordinary con-
versation that we shall not be expected to
pause for a precision of expression that
might savour of the scholastic. Blessed —or
cursed—with a craving for accuracy (I do
not here refer to syntax), I frequently find
myself substituting for the only absolutely
correct term, in certain connections, a more
familiar word, which, though it but approxi-
mately serves the purpose, is less suggestive
of the university 1 lecture-room. Evitat an
artis demonstrationem.
“Derwentside” : Isn’t it time a plea was
put in for the publication of a series of lives
dealing with the makers of our Federation?
The absence of some such accessible material
is felt by this coot (doubtless only one
among many), who considers it the duty of
all Australians to get greater insight into
the foundation of their-nation. Among the
sub-nations of the Empire the history of
Australia’s development from the inaugura-
tion of the Federal movement to its accom-
plishment contains many useful lessons not
alone for the professed student of govern-
mental institutions, but for the average
reader also. With the exception of Lyne’s
volume on Sir Henry Parkes and Morris'
Higginbotham what else have we? Where
can be found a life of Crowland’s great
democrat, Charlie Kingston, Duncan Gillies
of Cabbageland, to name but two of a
lengthy list? The time too recent for a reli-
able estimate? Lord Morley, no mere novice
in the field of political biography, and one
who carries a weight which it is sheer imper-
tinence to treat with other than respect, dis-
poses of such objection. In the introduction
to his Gladstone I find the following: “Not
all particulars.... can be described without
risk of unjust pain to persons now alive.
Yet to defer the task for 30 or 40 years lias
plain drawbacks, too. Interest grows less
vivid; truth becomes harder to find out;
memories pale and color fades. And if in one
sense a statesman’s contemporaries, even
after death has abated the storm and temper
of faction, can scarcely judge him, yet iu
another sense they who breathed the same
air as he breathed, who know at closer
quarters the problems that faced him, the
materials with which he had to work, the
limitations of his time —such must be the
best, if not the only true, memorialists ana
recorders.” Whatever faults Yanks may
have, the instilling into the minds of their
youth a sound foundation knowledge of 1 1
Republic’s makers is not one of them. vv ■
are apt to forget when dead those who ha
made the product of Bill Anzac possih e.
Professor Scott’s little gem of a history has
done much to fill a gap, but his professea j
limited canvas still leaves room for the p 1
I make.


EXCELLENCE and ECONOMY Combine in
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
The A. H.&S. Special Briar Pipe
The A. H. and S. Special Briar at 3/9 (Posted, 3/11) is a Pipe that will-suit the
most exacting. It is a Magnificent, Cool-smoking Pipe, made from Picked Briar, with Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, Sterling Silver Band, and Push Stem. There are ten Popular Shapes, as illustrated.
A. H. and S.
Special,
3/9
Post
Free,
3/n
m
26
27
20
29
20
A. H. and S.
Special,
319
Post Free,
3/11
Write for Price List of Tobacco and Cigars. Post Free.
The A. H. & S. Briar Pipe.
The A. H. anti S. Briar at 2/6 (Posted, 2/8) is the equal ot Pipes often sold at
double the price. It is First-Quality Briar, Vulcanite Mouthpiece, Sterling Silver Band, Push
Stem, shapes as illustrated.
Selected Briar,
Silver Band.
Post
Free,
3/2
Order by Number.
Push Stems,
Any Shape,
Post Free,
3/2
ARDATH
Cabinet Cigars.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are justly
popular, for the reason that they are beautifully mild
and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of selected
tobacco, uniform in quality, and contain only a
minimum of nicotine.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are dis-
tinctly in the first rank of medium-priced cigars.
They are made under perfect conditions, and combine
every point of excellence demanded by the cigar
connoisseur.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS, No.
444 and No. 066, can only be obtained at the
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are cigars
that will be smoked with appreciation by the most
critical. We recommend these cigars with confidence.
ARDATH CIGARS are packed in artistically-
prepared cabinets, fitted with a spring catch, and
make an ideal present for any man. Our unique
system of spot cash trading enables us to sell these
high-grade cigars at prices which offer absolutely
the best value in the land.
Box of 25 50 101)
No. 444 - 8/9 17/6 34/6
No. 666 - 11/6 22/6 43/-
Postage—Box of 25, N.S.W., 6(1.;
other States, 8(1. extra. Box of 50,
N.S.W., 9(1.; other States, 1/2 extra.
US
iff
KS
The King Cigars are put up by the makers of the renowned Ardath Cabinet Cigars,
to meet the demands of the connoisseur.
The King is the highest-grade Cigar made at the Ardath Works, of the finest-
? ' quality selected Havana leaf.
The King is packed in a well-made cedar cabinet to hold 50 or 100 cigars, and con-
stitutes a gift that will be appreciated by Cigar Smokers, offering value that is
without parallel.
The King is a heavy-weight Cigar of fine flavor and delicate aroma, is ffiade in an
English Factory under perfect conditions, and carries our unqualified recommendation.
Price 18/-, Box of 25; Box of 50, 55/-
Postage: N.S.W. —25, 9d.; 50, 1/-. Other States —25, 1/2;
50, 1/8.
THE CLEMAK
SAFETY RAZOR.
The generality of men carry out their shaving
operations hurriedly, and with an old-fashioned
razor or with an inferior make of Safety Razor
it is often positive toil. With a good Safety
Razor —such as a CLEMAK, however, shaving
becomes a pleasure. A great advantage possessed
by a CLEMAK over an ordinary razor is that
no stropping is required every time the razor is
used. With the 5/- CLEMAK are seven blades
—one for every day in the week —and a few
minutes at the week-end with a strop will renew
the cutting edges. The blades are made of the
best of steel. The CLEMAK SAFETY
RAZOR has no loose parts to worry about,
and no adjusting—it’s simplicity itself. The
CLEMAK is an ideal razor for the soldier on
active service.
CLEMAK RAZOR, Silver-plated, with
seven blades and Stropping Handlfe.
Price 5/-
By Post, N.S.W., 3d. extra.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
The Triumph Briar is the finest pipe made, J e al °' n S‘cS oTbura!
TRIUMPH PIPES.
It is London-made, Sterling Silver-mounted, with Ilancf-cut Push
Shapes as illustrated.
4/- TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR PIPE
Silver-mounted,
Brazilian Horn
Mouthpiece,
4/-
By post,
42
is
45
AS
42
46
47
40
London made,
41-
By post,
4/2
7/- TRIUMPH EJtTRA BRIAR PIPE
Finest Briars.
Shapes—
Nos. 30 to 39,
71-
By post,
7/2
m
•r. .*
--r
63 64
6?
m
60
, <?
66
A •«• -
65
69
Hand-cut Vulcanite Stems.
Shapes—
Nos. 30 to 39,
7|-
By post,
7/2
Write for Price List of Tobacco and Cigars, Post Free on ltequest.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
- g r i c Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


When You
Follow The
Trail
7
£
* Go
Equipped With
WINCHESTER
Guns a* 6 Ammunition
Made for all kind.s
of shooting.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
ASK FORTHE
w
BRAND
Wllema^^wfmmtaiiPeß
The
NEW LEVER
POCKET
SELF-
filler
This simple \
Filling Device
is making thousands of new
converts to the Fountain Pen
habit. It is simplicity itself. Raise
the lever, immerse nib in ink, lower
lever again, and the pen is filled. This
device is embodied in the World's Best
Fountain Pen, Waterman’s Ideal, and the
type is known as the Lever Pocket Self-
Filler. In every detail the pen is perfection.
There are nibs to suit every hand.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L.
G. Sloan, (Torttcr,
LONDON, ENGLAND-
Australia : Harold I
105, Clarence St., S
3. Dixon,
ydney.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stares
tkrouzhoutAustralasia
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma—an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwiek, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
n ARE, YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not o'nlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will 6end you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT‘SPOT. To show
what we think of the Anpliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO..
34U Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Arc you yoiny tv
let the Ravisher of Belgium icin without
lifting a hand?
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX
,'7,V
f 1
V * r.- _ l
4J-
:*a-
S'**.
W^i
'"Y^'X.
S&3
"Vv.
V W*; ;
-^■teS-K^
'&*
*<*
-kett
S#
<fts
vVWvt
Zjj
X
w
V-V,
«
'^ s
a.
The Latest HUDSON SUPER-SIX is a Speedster
il Ihe newest Hudson Super-Six model is a four-passenger Speedster Because
of its graceful lines, the beauty of the finish, and the wonderful speed it
Possesses we think it rightly expresses "the spirit of youth.” coach
is painted rich cobalt blue, and the wheels are in English vermilion It is
mounted on the same Hudson Super-Six Chassis that has won so manv
11 rH Q h P rPPAr/ c 1 1 1 mrr , _ J
notable records for power, speed and endurance.
dealer and see this new car.
to the nearest Hudson
Dalgety &, Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Lane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
SV. Johnson & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J. Brien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.
Hudson
Motor
Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address: HUDSON CAR—DETROIT,


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in I)e Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of Do Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Blood—like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is mos.t
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pit Is bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color —a • feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and tile bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, :i well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the following state-
ment: Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth and
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
water add loz. of bay rum and a small box
of Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of the hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff. —Anvr. [2
4#fi§
Admtic'trig HijlH
Restore ijcfur
till
41a.tr
¥1«
88
»
an
&
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
When Your Child s Throat is Sore!
That’s a‘ * danger sign !
It tells you of deadly germs attar king the
tender respiratory organs. Once let them get
down into the bronchial tubes or lungs, then
the dread croup or perhaps pneumonia may
endanger life. At the first indication
give Bonnington’s Irish Moss ! The
thing is to get this magnificent remedy
right to the spot at once)
1
Prized by Mothers for their Children for Whoop-
ing Cough, Croup, or any throat weakness. Be
sure it s Bonnington’s. Iwo Sizes, 1/6 and 2/6
r
(OHNIKCIOR
a&ffka
RiSHMOS
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. K. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Soz. to lOoz. in the
week. It is now 12 months since I last used tobacco,
and, although I am continually in the company of
smokers, I do not have the least desire to smoke;
therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as Irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only
remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will
give me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post yon a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[t
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
Power Built In
Power of hold that makes your car
travel safe and sure over rough and
slippery roads. Power of resistance
against wear that means economical,
generous mileage. We urge you to
try Firestone Tyres, because they
are dependable—built for wear and
tear on all roads, in any season.
Grimley, Ltd,, Sydney,
New South Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co.,
Melbourne, Victoria;
and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia,
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.,
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing
Co., Ltd., Brisbane,
Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
AVanganui and Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages
Write for Illustrated Literature
>•o* 'ri
mmss!
»*V
tSf?'
e«a
£»!
»«
SB
V. ;
m.
I
r-> \
"fe- *
1
-.kMAS
mz
m
3
mm
: "3 W*a; ■■ • %V.
SS
S 3
VrJsfe:
W.
P
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Exchanging Pilots.
The Nor’-East trade with long low croon is
murmuring o’er the tide.
The wardens of the Olden World have Hung
its portals wide;
The stars that shine o’er Southern Seas are
dipping low astern,
And heading fair to Northern Bear our
shaded headlights burn.
We’ve seen the searchlight sweep the sky,
and marvelled at its sway ;
Cape Otway beacon free of mist and bright
Agliulus’ ray
Showed us our path for thirty miles, but
what are these to thee
That lit our way through spume and spray
ten thousand miles o' sea?
Bright constellation of the South, how often
have your eyes
Looked on and winked when Mother Moon
stole on us by surprise,
In cosy nooks down Lovers’ Lane, staring us
through and through,
As if caress and rumpled tress came under
her taboo!
Night on the silent buslilaud track the
ghostly gums between
We’ve seen your sentinel alight in golden-
silver sheen ;
And peering faint through soot and smoke
of the city’s grimy stack,
We’ve marked our joss, our glitt’ring Cross,
from Perth to Cairns and back.
The drover urging on his herd, through pes-
tilence and drouth,
Across the long, lone continent has hailed
you coming South ;
And seamen battling o’er the Bight, through
tempest sleet and hail,
Have smiled and cheered as you appeared
triumphant o’er the gale.
A thousand sons from your domain keep vigil ,
as you go,
The last old link ’tween us and home, the
last, perchance, we’ll know;
For myriad hosts have steered this course
who'll never lift again
That golden gleam and lustrous beam in bold
Centauri’s train.
Oh, many a weary night must pass ere you
will light again
Our way from Ilawkes to Devouport and
round the Austral main ;
From East to West of Sunset - Land, old
friend of tramping rover,
Our course is laid, eight bells have made and
the watch has taken over.
Adieu! Your mate now* leads us North
where bloodlust, courage, hate
Commingle in the heart of man, defying foe
and fate—
Your mate that shines, o’er fairest France,
war-wasted, bloody-red,
And guards in graves of Anzac braves your
own immortal dead.
AT SEA.
JACK HAMILTON.
The Sea.
“Oust unto dust, aye, and ashes to ashes” —•
That’s for the fellows that’s buried ashore;
Not for the sailorman, solemn, that splashes
Over the side, while the engine-hell clashes,
Tellin’ the engines to muffle their roar —-
Holdin’ their breath, hear them muffle
their roar.
What are we watchin’? The slowin’ screws
smother
Makin’ a swirl on the sea’s level floor.
What does it matter? The sea is his mother,
“Salt o’ the earth to the salt o’ the waters,”
Hard-bitten lips to the kiss o’ the foam.
Maybe he’ll find ’mong the sea’s singin’
daughters
Balm for the pain of the man-world that
slaughters,
Rest from the life that knew nothing of
home,
Never a light in the windows of home.
All that we see is the waves closin’ over.
All that we know are the black thoughts
that come.
Yet- —what’s the use? Ain’t the sea his true
lover ?
MAORI I. AND.
WILL LAWSON.
Two of a Kind,
:Tis thick grows the hedge by the old stone
wall,
And two in its shadow may cling and kiss,
And no one be any the wiser at all—
But he held my arm and he called me
Miss.
'Twas high talk he had of the moon so slim.
“Dian,” he called her. and “Cynthia fair”;
Many a speech spoke he neat and trim,
But divil a word o’ the curl o’ my hair.
Sure, what was the use of my waist at all.
When he held my arm and he called me
Miss;
Or the shadows thick by the old stone wall,
Or the rose in the hedge that awrnke for
bliss!
’Twas a weary way and a long, dull way
For soles worn thin by the waxen floor;
’Twas not an hour from the peep o’ day
When I turned the key of my father’s door.
With an eye that dipped him disdain in a
wink,
My hand in his for a flash had lain ;
Then he clipped my waist till he made me
blink,
And cried, “Come back, and walk home
again.”
N.S.W.
NOBA McAULIFFE.


■?S 5 r-
DP
.0
2$
tms
m
■
P 3
PERDRIAI) Strength.
Strength of Reputation
built up by over a quarter-century’s
service-giving- trading.
Strength of Resistance
The quality of the matured rubber,
the design of the three broad flat
Ribs overlaying absolutely the finest-
grade fabric, and the perfect adhesion
between these two give a Resistance
to road shocks which is proved by
regular Record Mileages.
Strength of Purpose
Perdriau Tyres will always be on the
improve, for the reason that every-day
experiments are carried out to make
PERDRIAU TYRES better and even
better.
The sooner you start using Perdriaus
the longer you’ll use them.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
ALL STATES.
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
'3b
c. ;
n
r
A Child’s Progress at School
And his or her food are so closely related that their
parents need hardly be told to choose carefully the
edibles for the Lunch Baskets.
“ REX ”
Luncheon Cheese
supplies ample nourishment, without any danger
of injury to even the weakest digestion.
It is perfectly matured full cream cheese with a
piquancy of flavor found only 1 in correctly matured
cheese.
OBTAIN A TIN AND TRY IT.
ALL GROCERS SELL IT.
ES2J
“REX ”
CAMP PIE
is another treat. Serve
it with any hind of
Salad. It is cooked
ready to he eaten.
Foggitt, Jones & Co.
Ltd.
Curers of Rex Hams and
Bacon.
Packers of Rex Pure Food
Products.
,ypuß e p
r-gaMß&k
/ PURE J p§g<
:55SS3tfl2'-
EaEgofolli
a vij
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
10-12 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney,
HAVE FOR SALE AT PRE-WAR PRICES-
Rock Breakers
Rock Drills
Keystone Tools
Amalgam Retorts
Mining Steel
Engine Packing
Atlas Wrenches
Cylinder Oil
Flue Cleaners
Wilfley Springs
Bars and Augers for Farming
Sledge Hammers
Column Hoists
Ore Samplers
Battery Screens
King & Humble Safety Hooks
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
BUILT ON GRACEFUL LINES & BEAUTIFULLY FINISHED
A man’s car in its sturdiness and swift response.
A woman’s car in its grace of line and design—and
beautifully finished.
Consistent in performance, no matter what you ask
it fo do, or where you ask it to go.
Perfect balance of light, strong parts contributes to
economy as well as efficiency. >.
Owing to the present emergency demand the
small stock of cars on spot is being rapidly
disposed of, and prompt enquiry is- desirable
regarding the few remaining on hand. * *
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, Y.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Xewspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1959.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 1917.
Price 6d.
BETWEEN TWO THIEVES.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.’
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for \vx
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office ot the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have 'lke
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for‘ a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 lbs. per
annum. , ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to tne
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
The ‘contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
Of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludoate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver , B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal. ; Queen
City New,s Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Boland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.— ll 7. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., kd.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bkoz. to 10oz., Hid.;
lOoz. to TZoz., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 1917.
THE HORRIBLE BUSINESS OF
SOBERING UP.
When Labor was throwing majorities into
the Eederal and State Parliaments the crowd
was busy giving three cheers for the victory
of Solidarity and the reforms that were to
come. For a time the Parliamentary force
created by Labor was a clean and decent
thing, and during that period it served the
democracy well. Then it became something
else and did other things. Its principles went
into the dustbin. Its platform became a
subject of jest. Ideas in relation to reform
perished. The mere maintenance of political
majorities was substituted for the realisa-
tion of Labor policies—-and still the crowd
went on throwing up its hat over the figures
of the ballot-box. It followed the machine-
made politician to the last ditch, until the
day came when there were Labor Ministries
that stank to Heaven, and their; prostitution
of the public estate and evasion of duty
became a scandal as rank as any the people
liad known. Australia has seen no more
demoralised Parliaments than those it
achieved when cheering crowds hoisted
Fisher anrl Holman and Jack Scaddan on
their shoulders and the population turned
handsprings of delight over the triumph of
the hour. In reality Labor drew a blank;
the crowd was fooled. And it is because of
a growing knowledge of this and a dread of
what it means; of a conviction that Par-
liaments are institutions where the public
welfare is made the sport of warring com-
petitors for place and profit; added to a
natural human impulse to give something
or other a wallop and the survival of the
notion that getting together and giving three
cheers means arrival at the Promised Land
—it is from all this that the cui’rent stx-ike
upheaval has sprung. The crowd followed
like jumbucks the men it formerly called
leaders. It is doing the same thing again.
And just as it cheered what was rotten
and futile a day or two ago, it is cheering
what will give it no more than the same old
mouthful of ashes to chew again. Labor set
out as a political force to get salvation
through the orderly processes of law and
democratic institutions. Having failed to
win through in half an hour, it allows itself
to be taken charge of by another crowd and
Starts off to save the situation by becoming
an industrial rabble in pursuit of something
which cannot be defined and intent upon
turning a new-won democracy into a thing
of scorn. Wherefore are many people once
more obsessed with a nightmare that the
end of all things has come and popular gov-
ernment has broken down and the Devil
arrived to claim his own at last. These fears
would only be realised if Labor’s mistrust
of democracy was founded on something
more substantial than is the case. The
sins of our Parliaments have certainly been
many and glaring. But just as this is the in-
evitable outcome of casualness, ignorance
and a supine acquiescence in political trick-
ery, so will a return to the sane democratic
conceptions of citizenship which Labor stood
for in the days of former trial and tribula-
tion be certain. Australian men and women
are not going to give up the struggle to
govern themselves and hand the job over to
someone who reckons he can make a better
job of it. They have learned something
about democracy these last few years. They
will be none the worse in the end for learn-
ing something about the other thing.
Organised labor that was yesterday the
obedient servitor of politicians is to-day the
marionette of committees which want to
exercise over the State an authority greater
than that of Parliament. “Send us to Par-
liament and we will see you get work and
higher wages and improved social condi-
tions,” said the candidate for Parliament —
and Labor unionists pushed him in. They
got work and higher wages right enough—
and then they were heavily taxed, and the
higher wages began to evaporate, and each
successive million squandered on the main-
tenance of shirk in high places and go-slow
in other places became more evanescent than
the one before. Then when the other fellow
had got pushed into Parliament another
voice was heard. “Never mind,” it said,
“Parliament matters nothing. You can be
its master. Stop work ! Tie up the nation!
Be united as workers, not as citizens; then
all industry will be yours. We will have
an industrial commonwealth and you will
decide the conduct of every industry and
the distribution of all created wealth.” And
with this rigmarole in its ears, and hearing
frenzied exhortations to be loyal to union-
ism, Labor installed its governing junta, and
when someone crooked a finger thousands of
men turned themselves into a class apart
from their fellows, made war on their State,
and with a fatuity almost pathetic chal-
lenged the right of the democracy to govern
itself. Now, it is no good imagining that
men would do this sort of thing if they did
not feel they were suffering injustice. This
paper is not going to say—demented and
treacherous though the attack made on the
nation by the hare-brained crowd who are
stage-managing the strike may be, and abom-
inable though the record of many Labor
Ministries undoubtedly is—that the toiling
men and women of this country have no
injustices to complain of. They have many.
Some they have had made for them. Some
they have manufactured for themselves—
and none are more sinister than these latter.
No argument can be found to dispute this:
that a very large number of men and women
find themselves steadily deprived by the exac-
tions of landlordism, profiteers and Govern-
ments of practically every advantage nomi-
nally secured by years of incessant effort.
Nor can it be controverted that the worker
looking around him sees industrial and social
parasitism in affluence —a social scheme at
which the gorge of every normal, healthy
man rises in disgust. No one with even a
glimmer of imagination can suppose that
tremendous alterations have not to be made
in the structure of society, or that economic
changes of which the aim must always be
the world’s treasure for the world’s workers
can be x-esisted indefinitely. Neither is it to
be expected that the battles of democracy will
be waged with feather pillows. But even
if we grant the justice of Labor’s complaint
that Parliaments have in a large measure
failed as instruments of reform, and that
the worker is too often skinned, it is im-
possible here in Australia for Labor to
escape the i-esponsibility for this, or to
prove that it has not poisoned the wells
against itself. And it is as certain as the
multiplication-table that every one of the
ills the common herd are suffering from by
reason of their follies in the field of politics
will be accentuated by their denial of democ-
racy’s primary right. The crude syndi-
calism that Australian unionism is flirting
with now is evei'ywhere the proclamation
of despair. Do Australians, possessing a
wider liberty to. order their affairs than any
other people on earth, say that the only use
they can put this liberty to is to sm-render
themselves body and bones to the guidance
of a coterie of individuals who have no
notion of what they want to do, where they
want to go, or how they are going to set
there?
* * * *
During the past five or six years The
Bulletin, sorry for the army of dupes who
were being preyed on by political adven-
turers, has warned them many times that
they were being sold. It warns them again
that they are being led farther downhill
than ever. This paper is still sorry for
them. It is more sorry for Australia.
Issues are being raised in the Commonwealth
that cut right into the heart of the national
life; and Labor can make up its mind with
certainty to this—-that, so far from the influ-
ences which opposed it in the past and bit-
terly resented the fine things it stood for
being genuinely disturbed by these later
developments, the reverse is the case. Every
opponent of Labor in Australia is watching
its perfoi’mances with glee. He knows that
its power is being wasted. Its leaders or
manipulators or whatever they may be now
preach the glad tidings of a changed society
resting on the basis of an industrial com-
monwealth —of goveimment of the people by
a few of. the people for some of the people.
And their Commonwealth means what?
They .cannot explain. They do not
know. To every social or economic
movement there is a practical side.
The rant about an industrial commomvealth
built up by stiukemongers begins nowhere
and ends in the same place. It offers Labor
nothing but a diet of hot air and distorted
visions of Naboth’s vineyard. It offers no
reform that can be put into words with any
meaning. Its most passionate advocates
cannot give it even the semblance of reality.
To call men and women to fight in a holy
war of regeneration—to build up a new
State and put forward the clock -of human
progress and all the rest of it and then
present them with a large mass of dough is
about the limit of whimsicality. The men
who are the bell-wethers of Labor in this
business call themselves Socialists. They are
no more Socialists than they are Esqui-
maux. They are not even good citizens.
They are mere wild-eyed propagandists of
chaos. The future of Labor in Australia is
in the hands of Labor and will be deter-
mined by its intelligence. But the future
of Australia is in the hands of all the Aus-
tralian people and they will keep it there.
All this talk about “the magnificent exhibi-
tion of class loyalty” afforded by thousands
of men striking at the nod of a disgruntled
cabal is sheer drivel. The only thing it is
an exhibition of is that men are to be led,
even though 90 per cent, of them know they
are being led by messers. The day is close
at hand for Australia to face in earnest the
problems of existence, and though there is
great uncertainty about some of them it is
at least sure that these are not going to be
worked out on the basis of Labor organised
for the purpose of living on what it can
borrow or knocking off work in order to
improve its economic position. Years of liv-
ing in a fool’s paradise has puffed Australia
up with hot air. What is really happening
now is that the population is painfully
getting back to where it was before the spree
started.
SHALL IT BE A SHEEP-RUN OR A
NATION?
That Australila has huge national wealth
in its primary industries is not a cause for
unmixed thanksgiving. To live on the back
of a merino sheep is comparatively easy, but
it is not inspiring; and the fact that we have
immense quantities of saleable things to ex-
port which are produced by the employment
of few men has given the Australian public,
first and last, a distorted view of their own
position. If Australia’s ideal is the sheep-
run, then its industrial workers are mere
parasites on the animal which is the real
possessor of the country. But if we hope
to found a real Commonwealth of men, then
the sheep must take its place as one of our
minor assets while we build up a larger
wealth from the countless national activities
that enable men to live as citizens of a civil-
ised State. All these things were pre-
sented clearly enough to Australians at the
time when Federation came into being; but
because it seemed possible to get-along with
moderate comfort on the sheep’s back and to
import all that we wanted from the cheap
foreigner, the national plan was never put
in working order, and tariff-sinkers allowed
things to slide from year to year on the plea
of lots-of-time. Now we are face to face
wdth the realities of the position created.
Large bodies of men engaged in crafts and
industry which the country has never con-
sidered seriously as part of its national life
are ready to down tools on the slightest pre-
text or none, having the idea that somewhere
there is reserve wealth which can be drawn
on indefinitely to pay the people’s way
whether those people earn a living or don’t.
The thing is not to be wondered at. Their
belief is based on what tariff-sinkers and
the importing crowd generally have taught
them. If no Protection is needed to foster in-
dustries and the country can get along with-
out them, it is only a step to thinking that
the existing industries can stop when and
how they like for an indefinite period with-
out a serious impoverishment of the people
as a whole. The point which is missed is
that, if such can be proved to be the case,
thei’e is no place at all for the majority of
workers in our larger cities, and that sooner
or later they must sink to the level of mere
pensioners of the sheep and its owner. In
other words, the industrial worker is in a
vague way coming to regard himself as
belonging to a class which Australia —the
Australia of mutton and wool —keeps going
as a hobby, and that it doesn’t matter the
toss of a worn threepenny bit whether he is
earning his wages or isn’t.
* * * #
No doubt Australia as the world’s prize
sheep-run is quite a feasible idea; though
as to who might from time to time own the
sheep only the nations with the best fight-
ing outfit could decide. Worked to its limit
as a place devoted entirely to primary pro-
duction, the continent would still be very
wealthy; but there would be no place in it
at all for the general body of workers, and
no use for cities. A few good wharves, a
terrace or two of houses near them for
waterside laborers, and a few general stores
would be all that could possibly be required
at the place where the railway'touched deep
water. On the sheep-run plan, all the other
things that we now possess are merely futile
and irritating and a waste of the good cash
the sheep earn. The great bulk of the workers
under such a scheme could go on strike until
their money was exhausted; and after that
they could die and be buried at the sheep’s
expense without any national sorrow. But
Australia as a nation would be an entirely
different proposition. Self-contained and
manufacturing all things of beauty and use,
nor people would work for their country’s
sake, developing their highest patriotism in
their efforts to produce wealth for the
benefit of all. Then it would really be the
man who counted, for the whole system
would rest on a basis of manhood ; and to
down tools and arrest the national progress
would be known and recognised as the
basest kind of treason. Under the national
system, as opposed to the sheep-run idea, popu-
lation _ would be the thing desirable • and
every increase of homes would mean an in-
crease of work with an increase of wealth
Mages, as industry expanded and became
better and better organised, would naturally
continue to rise until they reached heights
which the most sanguine of unionists have
never dreamt of; and they would do this not
because of some artificial stimulus which
while it gave the appearance of betterment
really lowered the purchasing powe“ of
money, but because the funds out of which
wages could be paid had been enormTuslv
increased through constant production
There could be scarcely any limit to the pros'
perity of a country with large natural re-
sources which eliminated the idler and kept
steadily at its job. Australia has all alon»
had free choice of nationhood or the sheep B-
run, but has never yet come to a decision
Certain words and formulae have, of course
been accepted which were supposed to indi-
cate that we had some national purpose; but
the very first step on the road, which con-
sisted in turning down the foreigner’s
goods that we might make our own and
depend upon ourselves, has never been seri-
ously taken. We have had a mock tariff
which kept us as a rather disorganised sheep-
run while we boasted on the strength of it
that we were a nation ; and, as a result, the
great bulk of our workers, instead of being
Australian citizens in the best sense and
tackling the national task, feel that they are
a mere accident in the scheme of things, and
that their chief job is to get the best they
can for the moment at anybody’s and every-
body’s expense. In a downright and honest
sense the real strike leaders are the import-
ers and tariff-sinkers who combined to pre-
vent us taking the first serious step in
nationhood. To-day those importers and
tariff-sinkers profess to deplore the reck-
lessness and uncertainty of labor, but forget
or ignore the plain, outstanding fact that
they were never willing to give industrial
labor the solid foundation on which it might
have risen to discover its own national soul.
The task long postponed has now become
so difficult that one may well tremble to
face it. Labor appears to have gone wholly
insane; the great war thunders on, confus-
ing and complicating issues; the thousands
of Australians abroad may return at any
time, through a sudden declaration of peace,
to find the country utterly disorganised and
even the sheep-run itself mad with a dingo-
riot of conflicting wall and uncertain pur-
pose. Yet at this moment the tariff-sinker
is busy doing nothing, and the S. M. Herald
rejoices that there can be no “additional
specific or ad valorem duties.” Alleged
statesmen have asserted or hinted that during
the w r ar a Customs wall was impossible, owing
to the international complications it would
cause; and then the same men have given
us convincing proof that no such difficulties
existed, by the absolute prohibition of things
described as luxuries as a temporary measure
designed avowedly to conserve ship-space.
So the day after to-morrow, to which reform
was put off in the easy years when things
could have been easily remedied, has arrived,
and Parliament is making no move towards
grabbing perhaps the last chance that may
offer. The result must be the straight-out
win of the sheep-run over the nation. Fate
does not juggle with these things. There
is a cause behind every effect. For 17 years
Australia has been playing with the indus-
trialism on which self-contained nationhood
might have been built; and the result of
play where we should have been in earnest
is that great body of meaningless discontent
known as Labor. Its real discontent, though
it does not know it. is based on the bitter
fact that hitherto very little of it had any
serious meaning. Houses have been built,
factories set going in a half-hearted way,
suburbs speculated in, Millions Clubs
formed, and all manner of things labelled
“Progress” indulged in; but because there
w r as no real tariff wall to put industry on a
sure foundation, our varied efforts have
been only an ornamental fringe about the
sheep-run which has remained the real Aus-
tralia. And now, as the chances of
reform recede and the days darken,
the effect of the sheep-run’s victory
begins to be evident. Between the sheep
and its owner will stand the “poor white”
who might have been an industrialist but
wasn’t because industry was put out of the
picture—killed because the workers wouldn't
force the hands of their leaders to do more
for them with an honest tariff than all strikes
and Arbitration awards could ever do. And
the “poor white” of Australia will be a
sorrowful feature. The sheep don’t want
him; the importer will find no. joy in him
when he has ceased to earn wages. His
suburban home-site will sell for about 2}d.
a foot, and he can go just as slow as the
slowest I.WAV. person wants him to with-
out anyone else worrying. It is the natural
trend of things if the sheep-run wins; and
striker and tariff-sinker are laboring together
to secure its victory. But a Commonwealth
of men is even now possible, and Australians
are dying in the war-cloud for that.
AN OLD TABLE, SOME TREES AND
THINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
About the vicinity of Lonsdale-street, in
Melbourne, there are nests of Chinese
cabinet-makers’ shops. Each day I passed
them on my way to the hospital. Each day
I was drawn to linger and gaze more and
more curiously through the workshop doors.
The ant-like industry, the wastelessness, the
planning and piecing! They seemed to
create something of use and beauty out of
stuff that you and I would turn down
in building a dog-kennel. The stink of the
gluepot, the three-plies and lacquers, the
make-believe of transfer-papers, the patient
graining and staining! Birds-eye maple,
walnut, blackwood, oak—they turn them all
out of the same cheap deal. What end of
the earth the deal comes from I don’t know.
One tried to sell me a table to-day. “Allee
same blackwood,” he assured me. I didn t
want it.. I had watched its growth from
waste pieces, and marvelled how much it
looked like the honest thing.
I thought of another table. It was made.
I suppose in a day, with no tools but a maul
and wedges, an axe and an adze and a few
big bolts. Seems back in the dawn of time
on the old Gippsland -selection, but really
under 30 years ago. It was built of fiddle-
back blackwood. Even rough-hewn, the
grain showed out in live, gleaming ripples—
like the ripples in the back of a moving tiger-
snake. It stood firm as a rock, with massive
legs sunk in the earth through holes cut m
the slab floor, and held about a dozen around
one end. Its slab top had never known a
plane, and'when there was a tablecloth on
(which was only when there were visitors)
you had to be very careful to get a spot
level enough to set down a cup of tea. 1


don’t remember any other furniture in the
big kitchen except packing-cases and rough
benches and shelves—and the rafters we used
as gymnasium bars. There were some more
or less unsound chairs and an English-made
deal table and chiffonier in the front room.
The floors, too, were all of adzed blaekwood
slabs, which, new-scrubbed, looked like great
rashers of streaky bacon laid side by side.
A great ehock-and-log fence was round the
orchard ; one side of it was nearly all fiddle-
back.
The old table is in the harness shed now. A
while ago a traveller came along who knew
something of wood, and offered £l5 for it.
In the old days we never thought there was
£l5 worth of stuff in the house altogether !
The harness-shed then was an old stump,
with its top roofed over ; the fowls roosted
there as well. In the stump you could have
cut an arch through which a buggy could
have been driven. On the table valuation
the orchard fence would be worth hundreds
now. Where it’s gone to I don’t know.
There’s an imported wire-netting now to
keep out the imported rabbits. I remember
mother always insisted on “plenty of black-
wood” on baking days; and the fireplace
was the size of a small room. Blackwood!
It sounds like cooking with incense
and myrrh. The traveller who wanted the
old table bought at fancy prices some logs
that had escaped fire through having been
buried in a swamp.
, Pood Dad! Pioneer in the Gippsland
mountain forest, he butted against the clean,
straight, sound bole of blackbutt, the giant
bluegum, the blaekwood and the despised
messmate and ironbark, all of a density and
height that made the light dim underneath —-
where the sweet musk and hazel and tree-
ferns grew. Felled and cleared at what toll
of sweat and labor ! Roadless, railless, iso-
lated, for us the years passed as in a siege.
That majestic timber wealth so painfully
hewn and burnt off to grow—grass for
cows ! To-day, after the cost of clearing has
been paid with lives, much of the rougher
land is worth less than it was in its virgin
state; for the scrub growths are constantly
striving to reclaim the clearings; bracken
and rabbit infest it, and it is too steep and
broken to cultivate.
We used to go out with crowbars and
shove the burning-off fires together last
thing before bed. Sound, clear-burning,
clean-smelling wood. Only this comfort is
left. The felling of it developed some of
the world’s finest axemen.
To-day the Chinese cabinet-maker is piec-
ing together his cheap deal to get the length
of a table. I think of him making the
grain and the polish. Maybe he will sell
it on time-payment to furnish the home of
one of those pioneers’ descendants.
* * * *
Some day I shall got hold of a tract of
that tree-murdered land, and I shall plant
trees, trees, trees. It need not be very good
land. There’s a trait I like about the
feathery-leaved wattles. They will grow
in soil so poor that most else despises it;
and because of their power of conserving
nitrogen about their roots and their decaying
leafage when they die (which they do early,
as though declining to monopolise the earth
overlong), they leave their foothold enriched
rather than impoverished. A human could
pray for no more than that—to give fra-
grance and beauty while he lived, and to die
leaving his world the better for his having
lived. The slain bluegum and blackbutt
and messmate they shall be repatriated as a
right. Every yard of water-frontage now
wastefully eroding shall have its blackwoods
and wattles; and straight, sentinel poplars
shall weave in the air of grey European
waterways. If there is a sour, swampy
flat, it shall be sanctuary for willow; the
bovine-loved leafage of hanging boughs will
pay their footing. The ghost-pale stem of
the lemon-scented gum and the flame of the
scarlet-flowered will find space on the up-
lands. The darkness of pine and fir, too,
if only for their soft sound in the wind.
There are sure to be fertile, moist, shel-
tered gullies, too steep to cultivate or even
graze, where walnuts and chestnuts will
flourish as well as in their own homeland.
The chestnut is the staff of life to some
mountain peoples. And how welcome the
concentrated nutriment of the walnut!
If fate is very kind there may be, even
so far south, a slope sheltered and sunny
enough for a dark grove of olives. And
the choicest soil shall be occupied by a little,
luscious-fruited orchard.
I dream of the revelry of bees among the
trees; the homing calls of birds. I shall not
reap the timber harvest. Other folk shall
go a-nutting ; other eyes shall see the glory
of my forest. What matter? I shall sleep
the sounder for having given life to it.
L'FOU.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Oiling the Dove’s Wings.
The chorus of alleged' scorn with which the
l’ope’s mediation proposals have been re-
ceived by the Allied press looks as if it had
more bluff than sincerity about its top notes.
At any rate, the cry that the proposition
was “made in Germany” may fairly be dis-
missed as too thin. No doubt the old poli-
tical relations of Rome with Austria and the
Italian kingdom have still some slight influ-
ence in the Papal council; but what is of
more importance is that there are far more
Romans lighting on the side of the Allies
than for the central empires. Only in three
States of the German Empire —one of which
is Alsace-Lorraine —do the R.C.’s form a
majority of the population ; and in only four
others of the remaining 23 do they amount
to 20 per cent, on a count of heads. _ In
Austria proper, which is a comparatively
small State, almost the entire .population is
Roman ; but in the larger Hungary the
Pope’s followers count little more than oO
per cent. Add to these facts the pietism of
Prussia, which is Lutheranism stiffened to
the last point of inflexibility, and it seems
preposterous that any Papal council should
be suspected of betraying the interests of
the 80 or 90 millions of Catholics who,
without counting Latin America, are repre-
sented by the Allies for the sake of the 4S
millions or so who, on the most liberal esti-
mate, adhere to the same faith in Germany,
The Pope’s proposals may not be satisfac-
tory and the Allies may agree to turn them
down promptly; but that is no reason for
flouting the first decent attempt at mediation
by about the only force left in the world
which could make the attempt without look-
ing ridiculous. While the Kaiser calls Gott
to the bloodfeast and English Archbishops
combine with the Nonconformist conscience
to urge on the general slaughter, there is
surely nothing wrong with a Christian move-
ment towards international healing. Evi-
dently the effort is premature, but, equally
evidently, the Pope is bent on doing the
world a good turn; and to attempt things
like that a bit too soon is better than
attempting them a lot too late. The weak
spot, of course, is the suggestion that Prussia
should be trusted again; yet it is entirely
a question whether the Allied guns can
hammer the enemy to such a finish that he
won’t have to be trusted in the end. Also,
conversion by gunpowder has sometimes
proved effectual as a means of grace; and
the time may not be very far distant when
a count of German graves, which represent
the price of a broken promise, may make
for good faith. On present appearances,
Germany is certain of a licking when the
full force of Wilson’s effort is felt; but if
the Pope at his second try could find a way
by which the licking might be taken as
administered before the event, the world
would have no just grounds for a disdainful
snort.
The Arbitration System.
Justice Higgins explained at Melbourne
last week that the reason the Federal Arbi-
tration Court could not handle the strike
of waterside workers and seamen was that
there was no industrial dispute with em-
ployers—only a quarrel with the Govern-
ment about the cost of living. Also in
N. 8. Wales the various unions were strik-
ing merely out of sympathy with a union
which had a quarrel with the State Govern-
ment. Therefore as the strike did not
extend from one State to another as an
industrial dispute, and as the Federal Court
had no jurisdiction over State railways, the
Court had no legal status as an intermedi-
ary. This is no doubt all very well as a
statement of the law, but it only makes the
machinery of arbitration still more farcical.
Everybody knows that the administration
of the system has degenerated into a jest,
and everybody knows that the whole trend
of organised Labor in Australia during the
past year or two has been away from arbi-
tration. The strikes now raging are being con-
ducted for purposes which if achieved would
finally turn the Court into a ridiculous excres-
cence on the body politic. Their mere happen-
ing is the best of all evidence that either Labor
must get back to where it stood in relation
to the Court, or arbitration must be ruled
out as a futile experiment, and the weary
old scrap with the industrial bludgeon be
resumed. In the midst of a general strike
the thing looks like something that had
passed under a locomotive; and this paper
can conceive of no possible change which
would make arbitration worth thinking
about if strikes “because of quarrels with
Governments on economic questions” are to
be substituted for strikes against industrial
conditions. The loophole would give the
promoters of isolated strikes and general
stoppages a legal protection for the delivery
of whatever assaults they pleased on the
public. The economic position of the
workers may before long be horribly bad,
and it would be a cruel thing if. through
the misguidance of their new leaders, they
had no tribunal to fall back on. Yet if
strikes and filibustering against the State
are to be the order of the day with Labor —
well, the place for Arbitration Courts, as
they are known to-day, is the museum.
Who Shall Govern this Country?
Amidst all the wild confusion of the hour
it is at least clear that the industrial dis-
turbance in N. S. Wales is the cause of
great public inconvenience, national loss,
private embarrassment and social bitterness.
The vital question is, How can the plague
be stopped? It is quite within the compe-
tence of the Government to end the conflict
ro-morrow. It could start the railways going
full speed ahead, turn white the multitude
of articles now regarded as black, and give
the thousands of country-men toiling on the
wharves a chance to go home—all by pub-
licly making a short speech on these lines: —
The thing has gone far enough. Time-cards will
not be introduced into the State workshops. Every
man’s job is open to him. Let all go back.
The result would be the end of the strike,
three cheers for the Government, and the
resumption of business as usual. It looks
such a simple thing to say, too, and the
Government is being abused by the
stage-managers of the strike for not
saying it, and reproached by members
of the Legislature who depend on the
votes given by selection committees for
their jobs. Yet these people know that the
Government dare not say it. The pur-
pose of the strike is not to keep time-cards
out: of the workshops, but to determine
whether the Government under pressure
created by the capture of the transport ser-
vices can be compelled to cave in. And the
issue there is not whether there should be
industrial order, but wdiether there should
be any government in the sense in which
it is known to the Australian people. No
talk about “misunderstandings” and “intro-
duction of sweating methods” and all the
rest of it can get away from that. The strike
promoters have known what they were doing
at every stage of the game. Out of their
own mouths they stand convicted of launch-
ing what they call “the class war.” From
their prints and the proceedings of their con-
ferences and by the mental paralysis that has
seized their Parliamentary nominees there
is overwhelming testimony of intention to
challenge the right of popular government
held by the Australian people and vest it in
union delegates. And it is because the chal-
lenge is made by this strike that no Govern-
ment, unless prepared to betray the people’s
freedom—to sell the hard-won rights of democ-
racy to govern itself —could surrender or
even think about it. It is not peace or even
a reversion to previous conditions that the
State would gain by going backwards; for
however much the rest of the community
might be anxious for this, the propagandists
of “the class war” are out after something
very different. What they aspire to is the
control of the State. The vision is of govern-
ment by committees and cliques, as far re-
moved from democratic control as the Grand
I.lama and the Great Mogul—the dream of
foreign peoples confronted with no alterna-
tive but revolution as an escape from a social
and political environment they were power-
less to otherwise influence. A few months
ago the challenge that is being made to-day
was levelled against the Commonwealth by
the coal-miners. The settlement on that occa-
sion was dictated by a cowardice almost
unbelievable. It encouraged another effort
in the same direction. If this wins through
the idea of free government functioning
through democratically-controlled institu-
tions becomes a memory. That is why the
N. S. Wales Government has no choice. It
must either live or die. and if it dies its place
must be taken by a Government that would
walk wherever what is called the industrial
arm of Labor pointed.
The Vague Demand of Tudor for
Something Cheap.
Frank Tudor, leader of the Federal Labor
party, induced a public meeting at Rich-
mond (Melb.) last week to pass a resolution
calling upon the Federal and State Govern-
ments “to deal with the ever-increasing cost
of living.” As a preliminary, Tudor com-
plained of the price of meat and hosiery and
of the rise in rents. Wherefore it was, in
his judgment, time for the people to “wake
up” and for Governments to “do something.”
And the people who listened to him, feeling
the burden of prices heavy upon them, said
“Hear, hear!” and gave three cheers for
doing something unspecified. Practically all
Tudor did was to point in detail to some of
the rises that had taken place. Anybody can do
that. What neither Tudop, nor anyone else
has yet succeeded in doing is to produce an
agreeable process by which rents, imported
commodities and articles of local production
can be reduced in price. They simply dance
round the subject and leave it where they
found it. Take rent. This can be reduced
by (1) sweeping away all duties on material
of every kind, manufactured or in the raw,
used in construction; and (2) placing a
heavy tax on unimproved land values. That
this would reduce rent is certain. Does
Tudor propose that these steps should be
taken? If not, what are his alternative
methods? Or take meat and wheat. The
Government could compel every landowner
to produce so many sheep and cattle and
swine each year and sow down so many
acres in cereals, and hand over a propor-
tion of his produce to the Government at a
price fixed on the basis of the consumers’
requirements and abilities to pay. If Tudor
recommends that this should be done he
ought to say so. If he knows any other
way he should explain what it is. Should
he agree that price can only be controlled if
production is controlled, he must grapple
with the difficulties in front of him, and not
pretend there are none. Then, as he yearns
for cheap hosiery and hats, and so on, it is
no good trying to gull the public that start-
ing State workshops is going to lead to
“cheapness,” whatever else may be achieved.
The certain method of securing cheap socks
and hats is to throw the tariff overboard.
That will secure cheapness without a doubt.
Would Tudor support the Fusion if it
moved that way? If not, how does he pro-
pose to go about the business of cheapening
hats and socks? The Bulletin agrees that
the rent charge on the Australian citizen is
as a general thing outrageous; but it knows
of no single step taken by the party which
Tudor leads to lift the burden. On the con-
trary, it knows of dozens of things done by
Labor Ministries to help push rent upwards
by inflating land values. But, while The
Bulletin agrees that high rents are no good
to the Australian worker, it does not agree
that the prevalence of cheap goods in Aus-
tralia would be an advantage to him, or that
there is any practical method of providing
cheap legs of mutton unless the State pro-
ceeds to control production. If Tudor
imagines that this latter can be done in five
minutes he is a trustful person.
♦
The Neutral Cloak.
The Commonwealth Customs have lately
been confronted with some of their own fig-
ures in proof of the contention that German
goods are still coming to this market. Pre-
vious to the war imports of gas-mantles
from Holland, Italy and Switzerland were
nil, but during 1916 nearly 300,000 were
shipped to Victoria alone, a vast majority
coming from Holland, where they had
apparently been re-packed, or had been
manufactured by uewly-established German
firms or by Dutch manufacturers who had
procured most of the material from friend
Fritz. The evidence in a case tried by the
City of London Court in November last
year was conclusive as to the fraudulency of
most of the Dutch Consignments of gas-
mantles passed by the English consul as
bona fide local manufactures before being
shipped to Britain. False certificates of
origin are easily obtained by trickery from
Consuls, and even a witness for the British
Home Office told the Salford Court last
December that “such certificates could not
be taken as absolute proof that the goods
referred to were not of enemy origin.” If,
then, Government experts condemn the gas-
mantles shipped to Britain from neutral
countries for British home use. what can be
said for those shipped from Holland and
elsewhere, via British ports, for British
Dominions, which are not subject to any
special examination? Victoria, containing
less than a fourth of the Commonwealth
population, imported 300,000 gas-mantles
from foreign countries last year. For the
present such goods must continue to be im-
ported from somewhere, for the only local
factory in operation before the war depended
on the importation of German material, and
is now out of the running. The natural
question is: Why not prohibit all importa-
tion of gas-mantles from “neutral” coun-
tries? Soon after Italy had ceased to be
neutral mantles ceased to arrive here from
that country—a fact which speaks for itself.
There are at least seven companies making
the necessary article in Great Britain, and
they are fully equal to supplying all de-
mands from this hemisphere. Eight months
ago the Maoriland Government practically
prohibited the importation of foreign mantles
into the Dominion. But Prime Minister
Hughes, despite his Win-the-War protesta-
tions, refuses to follow the Maoriland lead.
He continues to speak of British consular
certificates as guarantees of the origin of
the goods certified, notwithstanding the ad-
mission of the Home Office representative
in an English court. It is his only excuse
for not shutting out the foreign gas-mantles,
and it doesn't ring true. Excuses offered
by William: Morris Hughes rarely do
ring true.
Victimisation.
The loud plea of the present strikers that
there shall be no victimisation after the
men who down tools have done everything
they know to victimise the public raises the
whole question of rewards and punishments.
One of the prime curses of our political life
has been that men guilty of serious offences
against the public good, of gross mismanage-
ment of public estate and public credit, and
of shameful neglect in carrying out policy
measures which the public really demanded,
have been allowed to carry on without any
sort of punishment. If the same thing is
to be allowed everywhere and under all
circumstances, it is not very difficult to see
the pass that the country must come to.
Through leniency in the past with regard
to the breakers of industrial agreements
Labor legislation became a byword and a
thing of scorn ; and a continuance and exten-
sion of that leniency seems likely to plaster
contempt in large letters of mud over the
face of Australia. In very many previous
strikes the men who have come in to help
Governments and the public out of their
difficulties have had scanty reward for their
services. The strikers have returned proudly
to their employment after a noisy holiday,
and the other fellows who toiled and bore
abuse in the time of stress have been pushed
to the wall. Admitted that generosity is a
good thing and nothing is to be gained by
making martyrs; yet there ought to be
some system and good faith about the gener-
osity. ' Punishment is regarded by the best
moralists as practically useless; but there
is a difference between punishing the guilty
and rewarding him for his guilt at the ex-
pense of someone who was not only not
guilty but worthy of reward. Strikes punish
the strikers themselves, but they punish the
public far more; and while nobody wants
the public to be vindictive, it has at least
a right to so adjust things when the trouble
is over that it won’t be again at the mercy
of those who gave it no sort of consideration
in trying to serve their own ends. It is
almost an axiom in the ranks of Labor
generally that nothing serious happens to
the striker; and it is this more than any-
thing else that makes striking so easy and
union leadership the reckless thing it is.
If the public once shows itself in earnest
about the matter and without victimising
the striker insists that its own friends in
the hour of trial are not victimised for the
striker’s benefit, the whole aspect of union-
ism might change in an hour. Then the
worker would seriously consider what he
had to win by downing tools, knowing that
in the event of faibire he had a lot to lose.
♦
“Fax” : I know nothing of (he Sydney strike
from the local Labor point of view, but I
do happen to know how the matter strikes
one young Melbourne milk-carter in the
South Yarra district. He was filling my
milk-can when I broached the question of
the threatened strike of carters. “No more
milk, no bread —no anything?” said I. “No,”
said young Milk-o. I timidly suggested that
life would be sadder without those things.
He answered more in pity than in anger:
“Well, it’s the public’s own fault for turning-
down the Labor party last election. They
arst for it.” I didn’t tell him that person-
ally I wouldn’t suffer if all the trams and
trains stopped running and the normal food
supply were cut off—l could easily walk to
and from town and live on sardines and
tame vegetables. I merely looked at the
youth and wondered whether his notion of
“the public” extended to those who didn't
help to turn down the party at last election.
Evidently his prescription for the cure of
all political complaints was Complete Rest
from Work. Milk-0, you’ll observe, made no
reference whatever to card systems—none
to capital and labor, work and wages, em-
ployers and employed. Simply “the public”
had fairly earned a clout on the head for vot-
ing one way instead of the other. As a voter
for Labor at last election I am to be pun-
ished for the sins of my proud and haughty
neighbors. The bread of adversity and the
milk of human unkindness will be denied
Marching Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Miners and others on strike will start on a route
march to Sydney to-morrow.”
We’re marching on, we’re marching on,
though no one knows quite where.
Our boots are on the South Coast road, our
banners in the air;
But what the deuce it’s all about we neither
know nor care..
We will not work, we will not work; our
tools, you note, are down.
The mines are left behind us and the pleasant
beer is brown ;
And anything may happen on the dusty trail
to town.
We do not care, we do not care. We will not
own defeat.
Without a thought the miles go by beneath
our feet.
Who troubles for a place to sleep or any-
thing to eat?
We’re moving on. we’re moving on, though
no one knows quite where.
In Hunger Park the grass is scorched with
blasts of heated air—
But curse the “rats” who try to think and
damn the “scabs” who care !
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


Make Your Own Cough Mixture
and Save 10s.
The practice of using such habit-forming opium extracts as laudanum, paregoric,
morphia, etc., for the home-making of cough mixture cannot be too strongly dis-
couraged. Their frequent use does untold harm, especially to children of tender
years. Besides dulling the brain, opium preparations cause constipation, one of the
greatest sources known of human suffering. The discovery of HEENZO (registered
name for Hean’s Essence) has made the use of all harmful drugs entirely unneces-
sary. By its aid anyone may, in a few moments, prepare a pint of the finest-quality
cough, cold, croup and sore-throat mixture it is possible to have. There is certainly
no other medicine which acts more speedily in the loosening of phlegm, soothing and
healing inflamed mucous membrane, and allaying bronchial distress. Besides being
so good medicinally, HEENZO (Hean’s Essence) is a great money-saver. A pint
of ordinary cough mixtures, put up in a lot of little bottles, would cost at least 12/-.
HEENZO costs only 2/-, thus effecting a clear cash-saving on each bottle used of
10/-, a big consideration these times. If your chemist or store cannot supply
HEENZO (Hean’s Essence) you may obtain it direct from the manufacturer,
G. lIEAN. Chemist. 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. In addition to being such
a wonderful cough cure, when diluted, HEENZO, used full strength, quickly stops
toothache, earache, stomach cramps and diarrhoea. For this reason many people get
two bottles, one of which they make up ready for use when coughs and colds come
along, and the other they hold undiluted for use as occasion may arise.
mmm
©
-
£&
- '<l
O •
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED. 1
B rtn C^ ES: 50 Queen Street ’ Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE r J^r ,^S^ IDENT INSURANCES effected.
r.^2 M^ T settlements, equitable dealing.
G. HOWARD POPE. General Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
me. I am one of “the public,” therefore
Labor has a grudge against me. I am in
the same boat as Milk-o’s sisters and his
cousins and his aunts —not to mention
Billy Hughes and Iceberg Irvine. We
must all suffer. And it’s all owing to the
Party system in polifies, not the card system
in railway workshops.
——♦
Since tearing a hole in the Russian front
southwards, the German seems to have taken
a spell in that quarter. But some-
thing may be heard from further north
in a day or two. What is already known
is that Fritz has been busy in the direction
of Riga, and that there have been Russian
withdrawals. A substantial Kerman success
in that region would probably make them
masters of all Western Russia and even
place Petrograd within their grasp. The
meaning of this would be that the war must
be won on the Western Front or not at all.
There are said to be hopes of Ivan finding
his punch again. But there is no evidence
so far to show that he is not involved in a
greater chaos each succeeding week, or to
justify optimistic anticipations about the
morrow. Until someone is able to estab-
lish at least the figment of authority and the
Russian arms are stiffened, the Kaiser will
have less to worry him from that direction
than the rest of the world counted on.
Nevertheless, he is getting quite enough to
think over in France and Flanders, for
there, although it cannot be said that the
Allies are definitely in charge of the situa-
tion, they are giving Von Hindenburg a
severe mauling. At Verdun the French ha.ve
hit back with disastrous consequences to the
vanity of William junior, and at Lens and
north of Ypres a bloody toll is being taken
from the invaders. There the Allies will
certainly resume operations after the winter
stronger than they were before, for the
United States will be in the fray by then
and the mauling of the German will be
resumed with fresh claws at the old address.
A good many weeks ago a Bulletin corres-
pondent declared that ships filled with flour
are practically unsinkable. He suggested
experiments. For his own part he had filled
tins, boxes and bags with flour, thrown them
into water, fired expanding bullets into them,
and found that they remained afloat. In
view of (1) the dangerous shortage of food-
stuffs in Britain, (2) the surplus of food-
stuffs in Australia, and (3) the destruction
of food-ships by German submarines, the
matter seems just about as important as
any possibly could be. But when it was
brought under the notice of the Federal
Government, the real point was overlooked,
and the letter-writer was informed that “the
question of shipping flour instead of wheat
to the British Government has already re-
ceived special attention, with the result that
it has been arranged that subject to ship-
ping facilities flour will be dispatched to the
full extent that it is available.” If the theory
is good, national safety requires us. not to
ship flour as part of a general cargo
—nothing is gained by that —but to
ship complete cargoes of flour. Five hun-
dred tons of flour in a general cargo of 5000
tons can unquestionably be sunk ; the enor-
mously important claim is that a ship loaded
wholly with flour is, for all practical pur-
poses, unsinkable.
From the Reps. Gallery:—
Bill Higgs was suspended last week, and for one
brief, unbelievable moment we thought he would
stand his ground and compel Clapin, the small Ser-
geant-at-Arms, to evacuate him forcibly. We had
gorgeous visions of the undergrown Clapin trying to
fold up about seven feet of perversity into a handy
parcel. But Higgs denied us that ultimate ecstasy.
Still, one lives in hopes, and there are reckless
optimists among the press gang who expect that one
day something large like Forrest or Page will
become horribly peevish and confront Clapin with
the old problem of the irresistible atom versus the
immovable mammoth. Clapin’s size is really a
menace to the peace and security of the House. Per-
sonally I think he is Irish enough to welcome any
diversion as a relief from the childishness of some of
his duties. His principal task is to jump down
from his perch and remove the mace from the table
every time the Speaker leaves the chair, with the
result that in a rush of resolutions, when Speaker
Johnson is travelling constantly between his throne
and the front Ministerial bench, Clapin is expected
to be a sort of jack-in-the-box. Really he is much
too expensive and intelligent to be employed in this
way. His office ought to be abolished.
The long-suspended question of a Coali-
tion Government in South Aus. lias been
settled at last —after portion of this week’s
Bulletin had made an early strike-time
rush to the machines. Peake throws over-
board Ritchie, Gordon and Barwell of his
own team and takes in Blundell. Jackson and
Styles—three of the Vaughan six whom he
lately turned out of office. Knowing nothing
of law he becomes Attorney-General himself.
The other most curious feature of the part-
nership is the disappearance of Crawford
Vaughan himself. It is understood that he
does not care to sit in office with a crowd
which is making a stern investigation into
the land-purchases of his late Ministry. His
brother, recently Attorney-General, has en-
listed; and his brother-in-law, Clarence
Goode, is the other ex-Minister missing. The
coalition is a distinct score for the Adver-
tiser, which has all along pressed it as the
decent thing. The Register treats it as a
grab for office by a crowd lately ejected from
it. The Herald says in effect, “A plague
o’ both your Houses! Give us a general
election, and see how many ‘National’ Labor
men will be left.”
Some person, apparently rendered quite
insane by a bite of the Yellow Pup, writes to
the press to suggest that there is some con-
nection between the Sinn Feiners in Ireland
and the strikers in Australia. The national
Irish movements, first and last, have been a
struggle for the recognition of the rights of
Irishmen to work. Irish industries, where
they entered into competition with English
and sometimes where they didn’t, were sup-
pressed by English law ; and even the culti-
vation of the soil was for long hardly per-
mitted to the people who tried to live on it.
Against these enforced conditions of idleness
the people strove. Sometimes there was
rebellion; always there was political agita-
tion ; and gradually a little progress was
made. The Sinn Fein movement, whatever
its faults, came into being through the fixed
belief of a lot of disappointed Irishmen that
the milder political parties would never
force from England a recognition of the
rights of the nation to work to the best ad-
vantage. Anybody who can see in such a
movement anything resembling a general
strike must be strangely constructed from
the ears up.
It is always the same when the politician
sets out on a policy of land purchase. In
S. Aus. it is the late Crawford Vaughan
Government that is now bitterly assailed.
A. T. Saunders an old enthusiast in land-tax
matters, is the most forthright, and lets go
in this fashion :
Here is a direct charge. [Dates and figures of
a Government land-purchase given in detail.] Mala
fides or gross if not criminal negligence, careless-
ness, absence of foresight or business incapacity is
evident on the part of Ministry, some Minister or
Ministers, or some civil servant or civil servants,
or of some of all mentioned. I defy Mr. Vaughan
to publish the valuation of the 400 acres for pro-
bate. I defy him to procure and publish a report
from the Land Tax Commissioner on his valuation
of the land.
But what is the smell going to be like after
the politicians have finished with Millen’s
“repatriation” scheme, which is mostly a
scheme for the purchase of land before the
war taxes get properly to work?
A hatful of invaluable household recipes—
hitherto well-guarded secrets —will be on sale
for Is. 6d. when the “War Chest Cook Book”
comes out early next month. The “work” is
being issued in the first place for the Killara
(Sydney) Golf Links fete on September 8.
“Centurion”: “Karee” (B. 16/8/T7) is
firing at a mirage when he says that the
discharge of “cashiered officers and other
undesirables” is marked “good.” An officer,
cashiered or not, never gets a discharge of
any sort.
Harry Septimus Badgery, who died at
Exeter (N.S.W.) the other day at 77, was
one of 12 locally-born brothers. Only one is
left. Henry Badgery, the father, was the
pioneer settler of Sutton Forest. He went
there in 1822 with Dr. Charles Throsby,
who, with Hamilton Hume, first explored
the Bong Bong country. Son Harry, after
taking up land, was hard hit by drought, and
in 1864 started to get busy with an auction-
eer’s hammer and proved one of the best
stock salesmen that N. S. Wales ever nodded
a bid to. In 1869 he married Julia,
daughter of G. M. Pitt, another stoeksales-
man, and they formed the firm of Pitt, Son
and Badgery. In 1878 Badgery entered
Parliament as member for Maitland, and in
1880 and 1882 he was elected for Monaro.
In 1885 he had a portfolio in the short-lived
Dibbs Government as Minister for Works,
but at the general election following he was
beaten for Camden and retired from politics.
.T. P. Ford, killed in action the other day
at Messines, was one of the earliest to enlist
in Sydney, and left as bombardier in the
first contingent which sailed to argue the
point in Europe. He wore a sergeant’s
stripes at the Landing; and though later on
wounded and out of action for a while, he
was back again in time for the evacuation.
In France he won a lieutenant’s stars at the
Somme, and was a second time w r ounded at
Lagnicourt, where his name figured for gal-
lantry in Haig’s dispatches. Ford was an
old boy of the Christian Brothers’ school at
Waverley, and was a railway clerk before
enlisting.
Died at Pinjarrah (W.A.). the other day,
aged 69, Edward McLarty, pioneer pastoral-
ist and agriculturist. lie was for many
years member for the South-West Province
in the Leg. Council, but retired at last elec-
tion. There was no keener judge of stock
in the State.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “G ru mpy’’
Her Majesty’s “The Girl in the Taxi
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Palace “Look Who’s Here’
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Unicn Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s . “The Merry Widow”
Royal “Daddy Long Legs”
King’s “Much Ado about Nothing”
Princess’s “Seven Days’ Leave”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
-V
Despite the strike, Cyril Maude (Godbless-
im!) is still delighting large audiences at
Sydney Criterion. Dorothy Cumming (God-
blesser!) is still a dutiful and beautiful
grand-daughter of Grumpy (Godblessim !),
and the box-office (Godblessit!) is still re-
sisting all orders from the Strike Committee
(Goddarnem !) to knock off work.
To-night (Thursday) and to-morrow will
see the two Dorothy Brunton farewells at
Sydney Majesty’s, and the management has
put special lashings on the roof to keep it
there. “The Girl in the Taxi” starts off for
another spin on Saturday.
# He ❖
Mabelle Morgan (“Australia’s Own Prin-
cipal Boy”) got back to Sydney Tivoli last
week-end and dealt sternly with some light
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
J. C. Mack as Mother
Goose.
operatic music. One
solo in particular
was taken, note by
note, and fairly
hurled at the dazed
house till everybody
had to wake up
and applaud a vocal
feat of strength.
The tall lady’s
stage costumes are
impressive. There
are points about
the blinking, dingy
old Mother Goose
of J. C. Mack,
though the thin
streak of panto,
doesn’t blend very
well with its vaude-
ville setting. Tal-
leur Andrews has
a song or two, and
Vera Pearce and
the skeletonised
Follies do 45
minutes, of which the best is the band
rehearsal with George Welch as the angry
bass drummer.
* * :!: *
Waller and James hear the evening trams
roll by, so they are reopening Sydney
Palace on Saturday night with a fresh help-
ing of “Look Who’s Here.”
* * * *
Star items on Sydney film bills this week:
. Hoyt’s : Ellen Terry’s first appearance on the
movies. In “Her Greatest Performance” the
famous actress, now in her 70th year, bounces
through several acts of stirring melodrama.
Crystal Palace: “The Whip,” the film of the
exciting turf play staged a couple of years ago.
Lyceum : “The Clodhopper,” a Triangle comedy-
drama featuring Charles Kay as the ’Murkan way-
back who comes to town in the familiar Steele
Rudd manner; and a sensational detective story,
“The Maelstrom.”
** * *
At Melbourne King’s the attraction of
classic drama with pretty trimmings is
fetching the public that numbers Benedick,
Beatrice and Dogberry among its acquaint-
ances, or knows something of them by
repute. “Much Ado,” which bettered intel-
ligent expectation on the first night, has
settled down into a smooth and easy per-
formance all along the line, excepting the
three unintersting watchmen who effect a
tame capture of Borachio and Conrad, and
would like to take out a warrant for the
arrest of that “deformed thief Fashion.”
The spokesman for the Watch offers no per-
sonal suggestion of the sort of numbskulls
he and his mates are supposed to be, and
the arrest of the two drunks is the worst-
treated incident in the play. Elsewhere
the caviller finds that lan Maclaren and
Kay Souper talk a trifle too rapidly at
times, as though they took everybody’s
familiarity with the text for granted, that
George Bryant needs to watch his diction
when it gets to the end of a section, and
that Duggan s Dogberry is too consistently
loud he has the same tone for maundering
as for drivelling. But these matters are
very small flies in the ointment. “Much
Ado,’ take it for all in all, is an admirable
show, stuffed with honorable virtues, as the
well-spoken Messenger remarks of the lead-
ing bachelor. Every man is a bachelor
widower in this artless narrative seem
ingly; every girl emphasises the fact that
she is a maid. Matrons are conspicuouslv
absent, and for the giddiest sort of spinster
there is no admission. Balthazar th
sweet singer, is, by the way, a 'she-bov
whose misspelt name turns out to be Twhetf
Keiha.
** * $
“Seven Days’ Leave,” at Melbourne Prb
cess’s, continues to keep Allan Wilkie busilv
engaged in a foolish deception of his dis
tressed sweetheart until she swims out to
the vicinity of the German submarine and
cuts the cord of misunderstanding.
Elwyn Ilarvey is still feeling faint after
her first fag.
The Royal Comics are beginning to pass
away from Melbourne Majesty’s in a brief
series of weekly revivals. Last Saturday
brought “Belle of New York” back to its
faithful admirers in much the same shape
as on a previous occasion when the little
Lunatic and Bronson Holland chased one
another round the candy store. Smith’s
version of the courteous German who car-
ries a carving-knife shares the honors on
the male side of the cast with the Kenneth
Mugg of Yilliers Arnold. lie is rather
different from a number of previous Polite
Lunatics, and his restraint is a change from
the usual Phil Smith. Florence Young
makes the sort of Cora Angelique who would
never abandon her prey until impecuniosity
threatened him ; Minnie Love is a Fifi who
combines the tenderness of a dove with the
clingsomeness of a limpet; Gladys llon-
crieff’s fitness for the name character, apart
from her pure and innocent voice, lies in
the fact that when she pretends to be a wild
Violet the pretence is very amateurish;
and Nellie Payne is an even sweeter Mamie
Clancy than before —so sweet that the Order
of Larrikinesses ought to present her with a
testimonial for idealising the type. Next
Saturday a revival of “The Merry Widow,”
with Minnie Love as Sonia.
* * s|:
The threat of a sugar famine in Melbourne
can have no terrors for sentimental house-
wives as long as “Daddy Long Legs” is on
sale at the Royal. People who carry boxes
of sweets to the “Daddy” performance would
be capable of taking coals to Newcastle.
** * *
Two or three new turns at Melbourne
Tivoli have ousted the best of the old turns
from their pre-eminence. The artists that
flavor their feats of muscle with essence of
humor are still on top, Ruth Budd being a
notably nice young thing in mixed enter-
tainment. Ruth is the angel whose limbs
recite the poetry of motion while her face
sings snatches -of song as she hangs topsy-
turvy in mid air.
At Melbourne Auditorium the Cherniavsky
brethren are playing their last on Saturday
this week. The violently 7 pro-German clan
of musical academicians seems sorely hurt
by the success of the Russian boys who first
came here in velvet knickers; but, seeing
that no famous composer—not even Brahms
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Welch and Rego in “The Painters .”
—is too solemn for them to have dealings
with, the Cherniavskys can claim to be sow-
ing: seeds of Kultur in receptive soil.
* si: *
Enid Bennett is the treasure of the humble
sixpenny gazer in “The Girl Gloria” at
Melbourne Britannia. Alice Brady is due
to-day in “The Angel of Mercy.” At the
Melba the bill is decorated with the tresses


6*
fiOOkU & SON
P v London, emgiand
FINEST DRY GIN
&. old tom
%
m 'a
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.
Sydney
A NEW AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
FOR r *
_„ el , ¥ . T ,v/J COLD-AIR CHAMBERS AND REFRIGERATORS,
rov AING BOILERS, HOT WATER AND ST EAM PIPES.
packlng under HEAVY MACHINERY, &c., *c.
hair felt
mekbTn't" sss*-"»-
FULL PARTICULARS AND NAME OF NEAREST WHOLESALE HOUSE
384 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE-
Made for the Stirrups
A rider’s iioot that pulls on easily by leather
tabs that are built in and can’t pull out. Its
close-welted soles are the favored stirrup-
style. The uppers are in one piece—no seams
to irritate the feet. Made of tough Tan or
Black Calf, with light, smooth leather lining.
Ready to Wear.
We Pay Postage. Please state size.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
of June Caprice in “A Child of the Wild.”
The new Pathe-Thanouser film to follow,
“Hinton’s Double,” will omit naught of the
majesty of Frederick Ward.
“The New Clown” has taken the screen
for a week at Hoyt’s
Theatres, Melbourne.
Its natural scenic
effects are superior to
the pictorial im-
promptus of Hugh
Ward’s stage version
given in Australia a
decade ago, and it also
has the first English
clown, James Welch,
to show how Ward
might have benefited
by studying the origi-
nal. In the support-
ing cast jof the film
Edward Sass is the
Ringmaster—the part
which George Wil-
loughby formerly ex-
panded to fit his cir-
cumference. The
week’s chaser is
Lionel Barrymore,
who exposes the
methods of swell
crooks in the Metro
“MUGHADO ”
at the King's.
J. H. Nunn as Don
John.
picture, ‘‘The Millionaire’s Double.”
“Turn to the Right” is still turning that
way at Adelaide Royal. It seems to be a
modern American development of the old
Robertsonian style of play, featuring the
simple delights of a pump with real water and
a kettle with real edible preserves. Richard-
son, Kent and Junior do all the work, with
Margaret Calvert as everybody’s mother.
Gaston Mervale has been ill, but is coming
back into the co. At the Tivoli, the Ander-
son Co. has left Illyria (which seems to be
somewhere close to Anthony Hope’s Ruri-
tania) for Naples. Here —in “The Sailor’s
Wedding”—a section of the British Navy
drops in to sample the daggers and spaghetti
and Camorra and other local products.
Prince’s Players are merry at the Majestic,
where also the Hamptons strive to persuade
the public that something new still remains
to be done on wheels. The Queen’s —a house
getting a great vogue for this class of work
—has had all it could do to hold the people
w r anting to revel in the music of the three
Cherniavskys and the Scotney-White pair.
Mr. White now adds ’cello solos to his
vocalism. The most striking picture in sight
is “The Libertine” at Wondergraph. It
opens up the whole question whether a girl
should be told everything, and has led to the
usual newspaper correspondence. Phil
Pinkelstein is manager. He is an old press
hand.
Bigjohn Forrest estimates that his 10 per
cent, tax on unmarried eligibles, with a £lO
minimum, will yield only £500,000. What
becomes, then, of Hughes’s recent estimate
that there are still 150,000 eligible single
men in the Commonwealth? The further
they go the more evidence these Fusionists
supply that they have no sense of responsi-
bility.
Killed in France, Major Horace Kings-
mill, D. 5.0., formerly of the Commercial
Banking Co., Sydney. He was a lieutenant
in the Australian Artillery when the sparks
flew from the Devil’s anvil, and he went to
Gallipoli with the first contingent. After
that, France, where he won his decoration
for gallantry as observation officer. Three
brothers have commissions in the A.I.F. Dad
is clerk of petty sesions at Albury (N.S.W.).
“Huz” : Passed out recently at Melbourne
Hospital, Elizabeth Amelia Henrietta
Somers Cocks. She passed her 70-odd years
at Sandridge (Port Melbourne), and met
romance at 21, when she was courted by
one John Patrick Somers Cocks, an English
gent, then on a visit to Australia. In the
Cocks family is the Somers baronetcy with
a fat estate and rent roll, not to mention a
castle in an English western county. The
lovers were married in ’77 at Sandridge, and
the bridegroom returned to his native land
soon after. The unsophisticated bride seems
to have had a dread of ‘"Home” sassiety,
for she could not be prevailed upon to leave
Australia ; and hubby died within the next few
years without having been reunited to his
wife, who continued to live as best she could
at the old address. The marriage is regis-
tered in Melbourne, though “Burke’s Peer-
age” records that “J. P. Somers Cocks died
unmarried in 1879.”
“Filkoil”: The highest professorial autho-
rity in Australia on the I.W.W. or its Euro-
pean progenitor, the syndicalist movement, is
Edward Shann, of Perth Uni. The dapper
little prof, is a Victorian and took part m
many team debates with the late J. A.
Arthur, Bendigo’s ex-Labor representative,
when the latter was the moving spirit on the
democratic side in Melbourne Uni. Shann
spent some time in France and tackled the
whole trade-unionist movement from top to
bottom. Tennis is his only vice.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“P.”: Versatile Alf Stephens, the old
Pollard comedian, has been killed in France.
He w r as a Melbourne native, who graduated
with the Liliputians, making big hits in the
early ’nineties in “Rip Van Winkle,” “Oliv-
ette,” “La Mascotte,” etc. Later on
he scored as the old smuggler in “Paul
.Jones” and as Bronson in “The Belle of
New York.” He also played the polite lunatic
with the Royal Comics about 1907 and made
a last appearance in these parts with the
Wren-Musgrove co. in the following year.
“E.T.”: The tragic end of a promising
picture-actress named Elise Clarens is re-
ported from America. She had rehearsed
for a death-bed scene, and on the morning
when it should have
been filmed she was
found dead on the
floor of her bedroom.
The news paragraph
mentions that the girl
was supposed to come
from Australia—which
is correct as far as it
goes. Miss Clarens
appeared here a few
years ago as Youth, in
the J. C. Williamson
production of “Every-
woman,” when she had
for her associates
Dorothy Cumming (as
Beauty) and Enid
Bennett (as Mod-
esty), both of whom
have since acted for
the American cameras.
After “Everywoman”
the late actress played
the ingenue part in
Haddon Chambers’®
“Passers By” and
went to England; —
whence she came orig-
“MUCH AD O”
at the King's.
A. E. Greenaway
as Claudio.
inally—at the end of that play’s Australian
run.
“Gazer” : Time the bell rang to knock off
the bad habit of crediting a ring in cattiness
to women. At Balboni’s Melbourne opening
concert the Auditorium was a nest of rival
tenors. After a preliminary look round, the
one on show became as nervous as a tyro.
He went pale, grabbed the accompanist’s
chair, leaned over and looked at the music
as often as he could (he knew it backwards,
but anything to dodge for a second the bat-
tery of rival tenor eyes!), got as far behind
the piano-lid as possible, and altogether
acted like a musical debutant. Spite of this
he was a success. A modest, nervous tenor
is a rare sight, and arouses rare enthusiasm.
At the second concert the tenor battalions
were conspicuous by their absence. Balboni
was another man. In a flash he recovered
his old aplomb, and was as easy in his
manner as the steadiest old stager.
“E.T.”: “Mary Goes First” is not to be
H. A. Jones’s only last play. Henry is just
producing in England an up-to-date “parable
in farce” called “The Pacifists,” in which he
attempts to show what happens in the usual
provincial town when its inhabitants pursue
the principle of peace-at-any-price in their
municipal and domestic affairs. Sounds
promising.
Maoriland continues to strip itself of non-
essentials: Picture shows are the latest to
be marked “not essential.” This doesn’t
mean that they are to be closed up immedi-
ately, but that the snuffer may be put over
them at the discretion of the Government.
Somerset Maugham, known to Australian
playgoers by “Lady Frederick,” “Jack
Straw,” “The Laud of Promise” and
“Penelope,” got married in N’York the other
day to a daughter of Dr. Barnardo, of the
Homes. Maugham is, among other things,
a surgeon. He served at the Front until his
health gave way; then he went to N’Yark,
where' his latest comedy, “Our Betters,” is
now booming.
Marie Lloyd has been having more trouble
Avith her third husband, the jockey Bernard
Dillon, who visited her house when
in liquor and assaulted the police who
came in answer to her shrieks for
help. His witnesses to character could
only say that he was an angel when
sober, but the other thing when he wasn’t.
Robert Sievier attended the court to take
Dillon in hand, pledging himself that the
jockey (who is now in the army) would
keep off the drink; but there was another
charge of being an absentee from his corps,
and the magistrate thought it all worth a
month’s hard labor.
“S.S.”: The Melbourne performance of
“Much Ado,” an interesting one in many
ways, goes to strengthen an old idea of mine
that the attempt to dress a Shakspearean
play with historical exactitude is a mistake.
The tendency of stage managers is not
merely to give what men wore in the
days represented in the costume play, but to
give all they wore. Now, not three actors in
50 can bear themselves like men in wholly
unaccustomed clothes, and even if they can
swank in the glad rags of a long bygone
generation, there is another three-to-one
chance that their physical imperfections—
woefully apparent in such deeds —will undo
them. Why should not the effort be to mini-
mise the sartorial mischief, while retaining
the necessai*y atmosphere? Instead of piling
on wigs, hats, plumes, cloaks and laces with
reckless prodigality, cut out every feather,
and every puff and frill and effeminate hat,
likewise the superfluity of boot, and let as
much as possible of the man appear ! If the
producer at the King’s had discarded three
large bales of Avigs, hats, beards, gaudy un-
necessary garments and unsexing flounces,
“Much Ado” would have seemed a much
cleaner, neater, more compact and incisive
entertainment.
Irma Caron’s view of it: —
“Stargazer’s” opinion (B. 16/8/’l7) that “Gilber-
tian effects are secured by the employment of delib-
erate, extravagant and wanton contrast between the
man and his spoken thought” suggests burlesque
rather than satire. Between the two a line must
be drawn. Surely Gilbert’s wit and cunningly
sugared home-truths are sufficient to ensure success
without the exponent assuming a pantomimically
grotesque appearance! How would “Stargazer s
rule of “deliberate, extravagant and wanton con-
trast” work out if applied to poor Jack Point, the
broken-hearted jester of “Yeoman of the Guard”?
Wirths’ Circus is .in trouble over the
strike, and has had to down tents and pay
off artists. The show is held up at Brisbane.
“Roland A.”: Oh, these Yankee over-
actresses! Saw one of them in “Bella
Donna” the other night just after I had
enjoyed the quiet artistry of John Hare and
co. in “The Vicar of Wakefield.” The con-
trast hurt. The end of “Bella Donna” is
sufficiently tragic to go without over-empha-
sis, but the Yank lady or her bawling
director couldn’t realise it. When Bella,
chucked by her aAvakened husband and
sacked by "her Egyptian lover, opened the
little gate leading to the desert, she started
to express her emotion by staggering like
a groggy pugilist. And she went on doing
it until' I quite expected a policeman to
flicker into view and arrest her for drunk
and disorderly.
“J.F.H.”: Londoners are wondering
whether Melba’s magnificent voice will ever
echo again around Covent Garden. That
famous home of the lyric drama is still com-
mandeered by the Government as a war-time
warehouse, and it is regarded as ominous
that Melba has given up housekeeping in
London. Lady Sarah Wilson moved
into the gorgeous mansion in Great Cumber-
land Place where her friend formerly dis-
pensed lavish hospitality and gave birthday
parties that made 3mur head swim. But
though Melba is absent, Australian operatic
talent is admirably represented at the
Shaftesbury by Beatrice Miranda, the prima
donna of the Carl Rosa co., who is singing
splendidly in Italian operas. Opera also
reigns at Drury Lane, where Sir Thomas
Beecham is doing the thing regardless of
expense. Maorilander Rosina Buckman is
his bright, particular star in “Tannhauser”
and “Tristan and Isolde.”
“Mooltan”: For the quick-change compe-
tition I nominate the Allen and May Opera
Co., which came to Calcutta in the ’7o’s;
and as it was the first co. to play in English
it was well received. It opened in October,
and put on a complete change every week
for over four months—“Maritana,” “Bohe-
mian Girl,” “Rose of Castile,” “Girofle-
Girofla,” “Martha,” “Madam Angot,” “The
Grand Duchess,” “Daughter of the Regi-
ment,” and many others. The co. was
largely Australian, and included Alice May,
Maggie Liddle, Florence Howe, Fanny
Lester, Amy and Alice Johns, Henry Hal-
lam, Howard Vernon, Tom Rainford, T. J.
Wilkinson, Bates Brown, Charles Lester
and (I think) C. H. Templeton. G. B.
Allen was conductor, and Charley McMahon
callboy. The late F. H. Pollock was in
front of the house; there was an efficient
chorus and a fine orchestra, and as a touring
operatic organisation it would even now be
hard to beat.
THE TAITS.
The veteran John Douglass is the first at
all well-known Londoner to be killed in an
air-raid. He used to be manager of the old
Standard theatre, was author of many tre-
mendous melodramas, and was chiefly proud
of having been the first to introduce the tank
or real-water effect on the stage. He was a
well-preserved 74 when the bomb found him.
The critic in reply :
Last week’s outburst from "The Cracked Tenor”
suggests that he is very cracked, poor fellow! He
is appalled at the thought of the Cherniavskys
being mentioned in the same breath with the Ver-
brugghen Quartet, and accuses the critic of imply-
ing that there are “people in Melbourne who con-
sider the music of the Cherniavskys preferable to
that of Verbrugghen and his colleagues.” Let
me say in the first place that no comparison was
drawn between the scholastic chamber-music played
by the expert quartet party and the more florid
classical music with which the trio of young
Russians appeal to the “moderately musical” pub-
lic, whose name is less numerous than legion. As
for “Cracked Tenor’s” affected amazement at the
existence of people who prefer richly-colored melody
to Beethoven quartet strains —well, he can find
hundreds of thousands in Melbourne, Sydney, or
any other big city outside of Germany who prefer
a tinkling music-hall song-tune to a Wagnerian
operatic number, and are positively bored by sugary
Italian opera because they “don’t understand the
language.” These are the people whom it were
desirable to educate in a moderately musical taste,
by means of cheap orchestral concerts and limited
instrumental concerts such as the Cherniavskys sup-
ply. We want all people to be moderately musical
and intelligently artistic in all respects, so that
they may be able to appreciate the performances of
immoderately musical and artistic professional ex-
perts. But we don’t want them all to be masters
or earnest scholars of any art —especially the art
of music, whose professors are about the most
jealous, envious and intolerant lot of souls on
God’s earth. Germany is immensely more musical
than Australia or any English-speaking country,
yet the result is a bad advertisement for music.
It hasn’t tended to soothe the nation’s savage
breast.
(Continued on page 26.)
THE POET’S LYRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No longer are heard in C. J. Dennis’s mountain
home at Toolangi, to which he has just taken his
bride, the strains of the banjo of his bachelorhood.
He made the instrument himself —of native black-
wood, gafivanised-iron, the skin of a cat and the
sinews of a wallaby. Let it sound its own requiem:
Just like the ’arp that onst on Tara’s wall
’Ung dumb as steak inside a butcher’s shop,
I am the ghost of this ’ere festival:
It ain’t no cop
For me, what Low onst put in a cartoon ;
I’m second fiddle in this ’oneymoon.
The dinkum days that ’im an’ me ’ave spent!
Though sooperseded by a gramophone,
I never tumbled it was permanent —
That on me own
I’d lag soo-blanky-perfluous on the stage,
A. silent oracle, like last week’s Age.
’Struth, it’s enough to make me whip the cat
’Oose skin was tanned me apron for to make,
To think I should be outed—on me pat.
It takes the cake!
Though / can’t play no “Chanson Sans Paroles”
Songs without words is surgin’ through me soul!
Songs without words! Ar, they was good ole times
W’en songs ’ad words —it seems but yesterday
’ls fingers on my strings thrummed out the rhymes
(And ’e could play!)
That were to bring ’im fame in “Ginger Mick.”
’E scooped the pool—’twas me that took the trick !
I scanned ’is lines for ’im without a ’itch ;
To me ’e owes the metre of ’is verse;
Ar, crooil fate wot narked my concert-pitch!
It makes me curse
The luck that turned, the forehune that betrayed,
My maker, an’ the day that I was made.
Alas, no more may sound an’ strings combine
As in the days ere I was carst aside;
Yet I am something more than tin an’ twine —■
I ’ave me pride;
An’ ’e don’t recognise, by word or sign,
The mess ’e’s made o’ this ’ere life o’ mine.
Yet, callin’ back the old familiar tunes
That galvanised the iron in my frame
(Now silent, spare me days, for many moons),
I’d do the same
As I ’ave done, an’ all my soul evoke
To re-inspire “The Sentimental Bloke.”
The wind ’as mobs o’ trees fer its delight,
But only one was chosen for ’is lyre:
Mine was the wood ’e tipped would best ignite
The poet’s fire ;
And of my fuel, may this coal glow red
W’ich my forgiveness ’eaps upon ’is ’ead!
VICTORIA.
GUIDO THE GLUG.


. •*" •'
THROW OFF THE MASK!
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLACKHEADS, are Ugly
Features. Refined Folks avoid your Acquaintance.
I -will tell Every Reader of this Paper FREE how
Every Blemish can be Removed in Ten Days.
Stubborn cases
have been cured
that baffled physi-
cians and beauty
specialists for
years. You have
never in all your
life used or heard
of anything like it.
Makes muddy
complexions, red
spots, pimples,
blackheads, freckles, eruptions, vanish almost like
magic. No cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster,
bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus, nothing
to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a "fright,” whether your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pim-
ples and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and
' porey,” and you’ve tried almost everything under the
sun to get rid of the blemishes. This wonderful treat-
ment, in just 10 days, positively removes every blem-
ish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way. You
look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and
tint of purity of a freshly blown rose. In 10 days you
can be subject to wild admiration by all your friends,
no matter what your age or condition of health.
All Methods Now Known are Cast Aside.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally,
Your face, even arms, hands, shoulders, are beautified
beyond your fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely
prove to you before your own eyes in your mirror in 10
days. This treatment is absolutely harmless to the
most delicate skin, and very pleasant to use. No
change in your mode of living necessary. A few
minutes daily does it.
To every reader of this paper I will give full details
of this really astounding treatment. Let me show you.
You risk nothing. Send me 2d. stamp, you name and
address and I will give you full details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN (Suite 52 ), 178 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
Iliis Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
l sher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
ALL'S NOT GOLD THAT GLITTERS.
OLD CASH (pompous old bore): "You want,
my dear, to take up something that will
interest your mind.”
YOUNG MRS. CASH: “Yes. I know—one
generally thinks of those things too late.”
“Three Star”: When Billjim dies in
France, as much of him as can be found is
removed to the nearest military cemetery
and the Battalion padre presides. The
remains having been given decent Christian
burial, the padre forwards to the Graves
Registration people—a branch of the Army
—the number, name and rank of the de-
ceased, and the number of the grave—36 s.w.,
N 36, A4OGS, or whatever it happens to be.
For every cemetery there is also a plan, with
the numbers marked on it. The late lamented’s
people can with these aids find the exact
spot if they ever visit France to see the par-
ticular wooden cross that interests them.
Of course sometimes there’s nothing left of
Billjim to collect, and then a wooden cross
is unnecessary ; and sometimes he dies in an
inconvenient spot in No Man’s Land and
can’t be brought in, and again no wooden
cross is necessary. But in the great
majority of cases there will be no more diffi-
culty in locating him than if he were planted
in some quiet, cypress-decorated plot at
home.
“0.K.”: The case of young Grimwade, an
aviator who fell into the hands of the enemy,
and is now an injured prisoner on parole,
restricted to Switzerland, may help the aver-
age slacker to understand what Losing the
War might mean. The example is the more
striking- because the captive (son of one of the
partners in the big Felton-Grimwade druggist
firm) had sufficient social influence to pro-
cure his partial freedom eventually. When
he was first a prisoner he committed the in-
discretion of making a sarcastic reply to the
taunt of a German officer. The swanking
Hun asked him how it was that the German
navy couldn’t find the British navy in order
to bring it to battle. Grimwade curtly re-
plied that it was no use looking for it in the
Kiel Canal. For this the wounded Aus-
tralian was sentenced to two years’ im-
prisonment in a fortress. Had he been an
unfortunate Billjim from the trenches the
same natural retort would have earned him
at least a smack across the face, with pro-
bably a flogging to follow. The Hun has
little sense of humor, and none that isn’t
tinged with savagery: the military swanker
who shoulders a civilian of his own national-
ity off the footpath would kill an enemy for
cutting a joke at his expense. Yet the pros-
pect of having to live under such conditions
has no terrors for the young Australian
slackers, who can’t see beyond their dream of
triumphant Trades-Hallism. Let them take
the case of young Grimwade to bed with
them and pray God it may become a night-
mare to scare them out of their sleep.
A young reprobate writes from Bagdad:
I’ve just been reading that number of The Bulle-
tin in which “Montalex” describes this city as about
“the last word in sordid and unromantic squalor.”
Correct ; but there are two things that he forgot
to mention—-the graceful carriage of the women and
the number of vagrant, unlovely dogs. Any weights
that the women have to carry are put on their
top-pieces, and to develop gracefulness let me recom-
mend the idea to the flappers that I left behind me.
However, that’s a detail. Dogs are the important
item. How many tripehounds there are in this city
I don't know, but judging by the hell-din they raise
at night there must be close on 80,000,000. Re-
cently the heads told off a military policeman
to stalk the main street and shoot mongrels on
sight. The bag was 800. and you wouldn’t
know the difference. So-long. Don’t forget to tell
the girls to carry something solid in their —I mean,
on their heads.
* * * •
“Murkah”: American tramcars have but
one entrance, and there the conductor stands
all the time. The passengers as they file
past show their coin and dump it into a
glass receptacle. A lever tilts the floor of
the glass money-box and slides the coins into
an iron safe below. The giving of
change is discouraged. This sys-
tem, coupled with the flat-rate fare,
makes tickets superfluous. For
every passenger the conductor
operates a foot-controlled tell-tale,
which registers on a dial at the
front of the car. Therefore the
stray inspector (who need not be
in uniform) has an easy job. Such
a system makes the gathering of
fares a matter of ease and certainty.
For Australian use our section sys-
tem introduces a difficulty. But as
cars built for the Yankee manner
of fare-collecting have only two
outlets, one controlled by the driver
and the other at the conductor’s
end (used only in case of rush),
the employment of vari-colored
tickets, as at present, would make
checking out a simple matter.
Arguments that one-entrance cars
would not cope with Australian
traffic are met in advance by the statement
that the crowds of New York and Chicago
are successfully handled by them.
* * * *
“T’gatta”: Defence Minister Pearce fur-
ther advertised his feebleness and the stupid-
ity of his Department the other night, when
he told a waiting audience of Tallangatta
people over the telephone that he could not
allow a touring band of disabled soldiers to
give their advertised concert. The bands-
A POPULAR LINE.
SHE: “Your son’s a contractor, isn’t he? What is his special line?”
HE: "Debts.”
men had arranged to tour N. S. Wales, and
had received a permit to do so. Being hung
up by the strike, they crossed the border in-
tending to run a few performances in Vic.
to keep themselves financial until they could
proceed with their original plans. Naturally
everybody helped; good band music isn’t
plentiful in the country, and the musicians’
pensions are small. But when the audience
turned up the announcement was made that
the State War Council had prohibited the
performance on the grounds that the men
lmd no permit to tour Victoria, and that
their performance was likely to interfere
with the recruiting band that is to tour
these parts. Then the long-distance tele-
phone handle was seized and the indignant
country folk waited for a full hour until
Pearce was “raised” at Parliament House.
He assured Tallangatta that he “could do
nothing.” The fatuous “authorities” simply
couldn’t have discovered a better way to dis-
courage recruiting in this district if they had
used their intellects on the problem for a
year. The bandsmen were given till 7
o’clock next morning to leave the town and
till 12 to leave the State! Tallangatta mur-
mured its sympathy, took up a collection to
defray the visitors’ expenses, and now goes
about asking how much grace Australia is
going to give the dullards who are responsi-
ble for such senseless persecution.
* * * *
From Billjim in Palestine:—
Perhaps Abdul is running short of barbed-wire;
anyhow, he has adopted a “new” dodge, that is as
old as the Crusades, for preventing the cursed Chris-
tians from rushing his trenches. About 10 yards
in front he digs four lines of cup-shaped holes, each
4 ft. deep, and connected only by a narrow strip of
earth. These pits, by reason of the strip of earth
connection, can only be observed at close quarters,
and the result is that the charging party are
brought to a sudden halt on the edge of a network
of man-holes. Then Abdul gets in his fine work
with machine-guns, hand-grenades and trench-mortars.
Saladin, the Infidel leader, won the Crusaders’
obstacle race by bringing long planks into action.
But the modern machine-gun complicates the old
problem for us.
* * * *
William Turner, secretary of the Austin
Hospital for Incurables, has mentioned an
idea which might be a big thing for this
country if it were adequately carried out.
It is the “Listerian Home,” a non-charitable.
non-commercial establishment for women
about to become mothers, where these valu-
able citizens would receive necessary care
and instruction before, during and after the
arrival of little Bill or Jane. The distin-
guishing mark of the procedure would be
that the only account to be submitted to
little Bill s parents after the ceremony would
be for the actual cost. It is an idea which
should appeal to everybody but the doctor
and the nurse who run a private hospital
and make their profits by a low dietary and
a high fee scale. The nearest approach we
have to it is an' “Intermediate Hospital”
here and there —mostly, as at the St.
George’s, at Ivew (Vic.), with a church or
tabernacle in the background.
“Peter”: I’m sure ttiat the sheep shortage
can be met by recruiting a few mobs of the
unfair sex. A while back the Dear Things
YOU SHOULD SEE
MA.
“But surely, dear
young lady, you
must be ashamed for
your parents to see
you so scantily
clad?"
“Oh, no — ma's in the
chorus, and has to
wear less clothes
than me.”
developed a frenzy
for short skirts,
whereat various
grades of under-
standing emerged
from obscurity dad
in anaemic hose. Now
the sex has declared
a vote of confidence
in the yellow hat,
with the result that
the eye’s daily menu
is a disordered vista
of macaroni legs and
squashed omelette
effects. The sulphur
crests are worn re-
gardless of expense
and tout ensemble.
My dearest posses-
sion, whose com-
plexion euphemists
describe as “fresh,”
insisted on joining
the great majority,
and the other day
sailed home beneath
a crime that had
concentrated its yel-
lowness into the first
syllable. I could not
help remarking that
she reminded me of
the Aurora Borealis
blazing over a brick-
kiln, which caused a
fracture of diplo-
matic relations and
a haughty retreat to
bed. She has not
been near the head-
gear since. In fact,
when it had lain in
studied neglect for
a week, I took it out
to the fowl-house
and made it over to
our prize layer. The
result was not very
stimulating, however,
for the sensitive fowl,
apparently challenged
by the glory of its
habitation, has been
turning out fruit
whose yolks are green with envy.
HIS LAZINESS THE SPRING!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His Laziness the Spring is here, that golden-featured
fellow!
He makes the cresset of the twigs a blaze of green
and yellow;
He spins a web of tender grass, and where his brown
hand flung it
He twists white daisies in and out and then lies
down among it.
His Laziness of Spring is here. Ilis active days were
over
When he pushed up through Winter's trail the nod-
ding heads of clover;
At work that shivering July, to conquer chilly
weather,
With languid cloud and drowsy sun he now makes
pact together.
His Laziness of Spring will take the effort from your
fingers
And whisper how a lilac mist about the bamboos
lingers,
Until down goes your brush or pen, and led by some
green elf
You wander through the sunlit arch to see it for
yourself!
A dainty column of sweet pea, a favor of the Spring,
Has trimmed its wire pedestal with rosy gophering,
And to and fro a spider swings, too plump and easy-
hearted
To worry that he missed the goal he aimed for when
Ire started.
A bee that meant a lily-feast declines upon the clover,
And when the spotted lady-bird who counts her
children over
Finds one is missing from its home, too indolent to
weep,
She creeps beneath her floral quilt and settles down
to sleep.
Far off, upon the rocky Point, a black-winged bird
flies slowly
Beyond the haughty coco-palms and tree-ferns squat
and lowly;
The quarry-picks clink listlessly, a sail in Garden
Reach
Seems like the flicker of a hand that beckons from a
beach ;
And bud and grass and sail and leaf and every
floating wing—
They are but courtiers to my lord His Laziness the
Spring!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


10)6
buys
this 1
Hat.
THE
DUNCLIFFE” HAT.
=;?£ gffiSWsu a*
black band or band to tone.
SEND FOR YOUR SIZE ON APPROVAL. WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
Townsvilfe
BRISBANE
Toowoomba,
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is‘not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
and it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bowels
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and sweetened as the undigested
food is moved on and got rid of. The tongue
will grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of California Syrup of
Figs—“Califig.” Directions are with it for
adults and children of all ages. This
pleasant laxative is good for all, and cannot
possibly harm even the most delicate, but
you must ask for “Califig California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade-mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California
Syruo of Figs—in bottles of two sizes,
1/li‘and 1/9. [1
From the report of the Health Officer on
the Lower Wattle Grove (Tas.) State
school: —
The building is a disused apple-shed, built of
wood, weatherboard on the outside, paling-lined in-
side. The roof is shingle, and leaky in parts. The
schoolroom is 22ft. x 13ft. and 7ft. high. There are
two doors, which open directly to the outside. The
two windows are too small to admit sufficient light.
The chimney is of corrugated-iron and smokes badly.
There are several cracks and apertures in the walls.
There is no porch or verandah or convenience to
deposit wet garments. There is no shelter-shed.
There is no water available in the immediate vicinity.
Go on the land, Billjim. go on the land!
You’ll be marrying presently ; and then little
Billjim will be provided with a palace like
this, while the poor wretch who sticks to
the city will have to send his kids to a mere
suburban hovel that cost 20 or 30 thousand
pounds.
* * * *
“Saint”: The Ricketty Islands have
lately been getting a hint that the old devil
under them is stirring in his sleep. Through-
out the southern part of the North Islaud
frequent tremors were felt for five days. On
the S.E. coast, which was the centre of the
disturbance, hardly a chimney, was left
standing. Billiard-tables and pianos were
overturned and broken, and one. astonished
individual was thrown out of his bed and
had it overturned on top of him. Perhaps
the worst experience was that of the light-
house-keeper at Castlepoint, who felt his
70ft. tower sway to and fro, while the rocks
around him fell into the boiling sea.
* - * * *
“K.”: Hats off to Blogg! John K.,
chemist, of Melbourne —one of the Blogg
Brothers —has discovered that some of Aus-
tralia’s towering eucalypts
are merely nodding red
roses. A synthetic “Otto of
Rose” (why “Otto”?) is
now produced in the labora-
tories of his firm, and the
Australian girl who uses the
perfume never guesses that
the hush it came from is
taller than a cathedral and
wouldn't grow a rose in a
thousand years. Another
Blogg triumph is a synthetic
violet scent made from the
essential oil of a Bananaland
tree. I can vouch for its
power. The inventor pre-
sented me with a tiny phial
of the pure 100 per cent, pure
violet with the direction that
“it should be reduced with
100 parts of pure alcohol to
realise its true odor.” I put
the phial in my waistcoat
pocket and went in search of
pure alcohol. On the morn-
ing boat people started to
look at me and sniff. It
seemed an unusually fresh
morning. Struck by a sud-
den doubt. I felt in my
pocket and found that the
cork had come out. The suit
has been airing and scenting
our yard for a fortnight, and
a poet two streets away was
misled into writing two
Spring poems while others
were still sniffing about winter wi-i-nds.
“Cudgewa”: Three bags of human bones
are being retained at Edenhope police station
(Vic.) as Exhibit xl in case an old-time mur-
derer should some day be roped in. The
tragedy took place about 1864, when a man
THE BRAKE’S ON.
THE ONE : “Tom and Ethel are such fast friends.”
THE OTHER: “Yes—isn’t it hard luck her husband knows it?”
and his wife and child set out from Hors-
ham in a waggonette intending to go to Port-
land. They never got there. A man named
Cook, said to be on intimate terms with the
lady, was known to have followed the party.
Ten years later three fencers camping in the
Maryvale district were scared at hearing
what they declared were a woman’s shrieks
from the adjoining scrub. Next morning’s
search discovered the bones of a woman and
child beside a decayed log. Further search
revealed the remains of a man, but whether
those of the husband or Cook nobody knows.
The Law has nothing but the three bags of
hones, and many Hops have grown grey
caring for them. As Cook and the husband
were both over 30 at the time of the tragedy
the guilty one (if he is still alive) is well
over SO, and would make a very poor hang-
ing. All things considered, the Law might
now give the undertaker a chance and get
on to something fresh.
“5.0.5.”: Billjim has carried a bit of
Egypt to France with him. Lately, when
our artillery had sent over a good one into
a well-filled German trench, I heard this
joyous and picturesque exclamation: “More
baksheesh for the Devil!”
NICE FOR HUBBY.
HUBBY: “But why should I get my life
insured? I'm quite healthy, and ten to
one I'll outlive you."
WIFEY : "Oh, there you are again! Always
looking on the gloomy side!”
“Primus”: I was over two years abroad
with the A.1.F., and I never heard of an
officer being given a discharge of any sort
on termination of his appointment. Where
did “Karee” (B. 10/8/T7) encounter one?
I suppose controversy will always rage
around the question of batmen, but if an
officer is filling his job properly I’m satisfied
that he absolutely needs a batman to do a
hundred and one things which he hasn’t time
to do for himself. Batmen are not passen-
gers: they do their whack of fighting just
like anyone else. As to other points stressed
by “Karee,” (1) when I was at the front
reinforcement n.c.o.’s did revert to the ranks
on joining their units; (2) saluting in the
trenches was not merely not compulsory, it
was not allowed ; (3) officers had exactly the
same rations, blankets and luggage as their
men and carried the last-named to the
trenches in exactly the same way, viz., on
their backs; (4) as to men messing with
officers, or officers with men, all I can say is
that a little separation is good for every-
body and meals provide an excellent oppor-
tunity.
# * * *
“Peter”: Having found that the task of
smashing open his patent air-tight telegram
results in the message being reduced to con-
fetti, P.M.G. Webster now stamps each wire
with the direction : “Open here from Right
to Left.” This advice costs the Department
more rubber stamps, not to mention extra
labor, but I am afraid it won’t reduce the
charges of disorderly language against those
who are compelled to solve Webster’s mys-
teries. The green and pink missives are still
a puzzle, and I apprehend the day
when William will be induced to
fasten each ’gram with a combina-
tion lock, whereupon numerous un-
employed safe-breakers will at last
earn an honest living by teaching
the way-in by correspondence.
“Trallwm” : Some time ago I told the tale of
the festive subdivider who included 10 feet
of street in his workers’-liome blocks, but
not in the title, and built the humpies up to
the edge of the true boundary. When the
council presently served street-making
notices on the block-owners, the latter woke
up to the fact that the surveyed street cut
off their verandahs. They got no redress;
the titles were ironbound on the subject of
depth, and not one of the buyers had run
over his little lot with a tape. The gentle
subdivider has now put up a similar deal.
This time he sold his 21ft. x 43ft. dog-runs
by means of a bait in the building contract
that undertook to make the street upon
which the blocks fronted, street-forming
charges being the bugbear of the small- pro-
perty-owner buying rent-purchase. This sub-
divider ran a double line of pitchers down
each side of the “street,” formed a footpath
of earth behind, and tipped a few loads of
metal between. The little homesteads were
rushed. The owners then asked the council
to take over the street. “That sort of street’s
no good to us!” it replied, and served notice
upon the residents to pay their quota to-
wards the proper construction of it. The
poor devils will have to do it. The street-
making clause in their contracts has un-
happily omitted to state “to the satisfaction
of the council.” There was almost a row in
England 20 years ago w r hen it became known
that one of the “milk-blended butter” firms
had employed the first civil lawyer in the
U.K. to draft an advt. that would beat the
Pure Foods Act. Apparently there are law-
yers here, too, who will assist the boodling
hind-dissector to tlirt with False Pretences.
“Blue Pill” : The old trouble between doc-
tors and lodges in Victoria seems to be com-
ing at last to an earnest scrap. The case
for the doctors is that the workers, who con-
stitute Sawbones’s employers, have had rises
to pay for the extra cost of living, aud that
Sawbones’s living has gone up as much as
anybody’s. The doctors therefore want a
few shillings a year more from each mem-
ber, and claim that that will impose no hard-
ship on that person, because his pay has
been put up for this very purpose. They
have said all this many times before; but
with the market very empty of doctors on
account of the war they declare that this
time they are going to stick out. It is the
younger generation who are raising the loud-
est howl. There is still a powerful minority
of older doctors, most of them with a pretty
fat cheque coming in every quarter, who are
satisfied with present conditions. But these
few will be overwhelmed. The lodges for
their part declare that if the doctors insist
on, say, a sov. a year from each member,
instead of 165., they will get the sack in-
stead. The matter is to be arranged by the
different lodges in the various districts com-
bining (as they did some time ago at
Prahran) to put in a pound a head for hir-
ing their own exclusive doctors. One dis-
trict with 2500 members, for instance, can
allow two doctors £1250 a year each, plus mid-
wifery fees and a certain amount of private
practice—say £2OOO altogether, with no bad
debts. It is an attractive bait, and the
beauty of the scheme from the lodges’ view-
point is that they know they can get the
men. In short, the lodges practically admit
that they are able to pay the extra bit and
will do so if they are pushed ; but they won’t
pay the men who do the pushing.
SO AWFULLY NAUGHTY.
SHE : “Why are there to he no marriages in
Heaven, Mr. Goodie?"
HE: "He, he! No ladies there, do you think,
eh?”
SHE: "Oh, Mr. Goodie —no ministers, pro-
bably!"
There was a flare-up in Perth three
months back when Westralian Recruiting-
officer Burkett was refused permission to
speak at a charity concert held in
Government House ballroom. On August
11 another concert was held—same swell
audience; same place (Ellison-Macartney
is generous with his barn). At the
end of the programme his Ex. introduced
Lieut. C. R. Heppingstone, who is relieving
Burkett, and in a guarded little cameo of a
speech said he had invited the officer to
speak to remove any misunderstanding as to
the attitude of Government House audiences
towards recruiting efforts. As to the times
and places suited for those efforts he still,
however, had his own opinions. But as
Heppingstone bagged at least one recruit, the
time and place were evidently better than
his Ex. thought.
RESERVATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Women war workers in certain English counties
have refused to wear trousers.”
Lo, war is war. The foemen reel and bleed.
Our men must fight amid machine-made stenches.
We battle on to match a nation’s need,
Defeating hunger in the long home trenches.
Gladly we strive; but that which narks and vexes
Is the official mixing of the sexes.
The furrow runs amid the upturned sods;
Each teamstress dimples sweetly as she ploughs
hers,
But holds it still a bit above the odds
To sheathe her legs in patriotic trousers.
Though toiling hard, she dreams of subtle, charming
Loose lingerie made suitable for farming.
John may come home without an arm or leg;
But she can keep the turnips growing greenly—■
There is no reason he should starve or beg;
No reason he should find her less than queenly.
She holds that bifurcated moleskinned Misses
Might scarcely be provocative of kisses.
So speed the plough! But leave our petticoats
A little of their ancient tender flutter.
Little we care for politics or votes;
But girls have hopes while cows give cream and
butter. .
And howsoe’er war’s sun at last in gore sets
Leave us the triumph of our frills and corsets.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


(1). One day a Hungry Dog came into the Fowl-yard, and seeing the Fowls all comfort-
ably laying Eggs, he mounted a box and spoke thus:—
“ Why do you go on crowing and laying eggs like slaves when you have only to Cease
Work In order to become Masters of the Earth ? ”'
(11). These words so inflamed the Simple Fowls that they
at once threw down their nests, ceased to crow, and handed a
present of eggs to the Hungry Dog in order that he might keep
on inflaming them with words v V.
(IV). Whereat the Simple Fowls said to the Dog: “How comes it
that we, the Masters of the Earth, have no food to eat? ”
“if you have no food,” said the Dog, “at least you have the
Satisfaction of Upsetting the Farmer’s Business.” .
“ That is all very well,” said the Fowls, “ but w'hile his business is
upset we are forced to starve.” “Besides,” said the Rooster, “1 am
unhappy since 1 ceased to crow.”
„U)' “vLt." said the Farmer da, " N » e -^ urs o( the Earth , why
• • No,” said the Simple Fowls. Since we are
should we go on laying eggs? produce no eggs for me to sell
“ Ver > true ’" sa,d the Fa^ e I nd he went away to buv some Wise. Fowls and an
I cannot buy you any more corn And be went away
incubator
And they Murmured one among the other and looked suspiciously
on while the Dog ate the remaining eggs.
* V) - D,d the Simple Fowls go back to'
work t Of course they did l For Fowls who
lay no eggs are unworthy of the Name of .
Fowls, and life is a blank for Roosters who
cease to crow.
(Vi). And did the Farmer kick the Dog out of the Fowl-yard? Well,
ff he didn't, it won’t be long before he does.
A FABLE FOR SIMPLE FOWLS.


HON. JEMS AUGUST HUCHES
M-imsTer oj- Custom t>
SENATOR HON. TED HUGHES.
Assistant Minister;
HON. PATRICK M9MAHQN HUGHES.
Minister oj Internal Affairs
SENATOR HONED.HUGHES.
Vice -President Executive Council
HON. W. HUGHES.
Po&Tmasfer CjCnertAA.
HON. LITTLETON HUGHES
Assistant Minister
SENATOR HONI G.F.HUGHES
Minister of. Defence
HON. W. A HUGHES
Minister VJorks
HON. BTGJOHW HUGHES
Treasurer
HUGHESITIS.
HON. JOSEPH HUGHES
Minister tine Na.oy„
HON. WILLIAM MOOTS HUGHES.
IT.
The Prime Minister has become not only the centre, but almost the whole of the circle of Government. —Nationalist press comment.
The effect of close association with a dominating personality.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
U The medicine that goes hand in hand with good health—a kind of twin brother—that
brings physical confidence, strength, mental energy and clearness, is Clements Tonic
because it possesses those specific properties that rebuild the human constitution It
strengthens the working parts, cleanses the stomach, purifies the blood, thus creating new
conditions with good health results to the user. If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the testimonies given afford it written bv those
who can well afford by experience to judge of its merits. For the general good of
the public they are published throughout Australia, and are well worth reading.
Over 300 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been received in the last few .. ,
~4(: . u „ 1'„„:„ ■ -la i-» 11 _ •. x , . . “ s * "Inch may be seen and verified at the
offices of the Company, Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or store to-day, and get well Do
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
not wait until to-morrow.
PERSONAL
Friends writing from London say that
George Reid is these times a victim to in-
somnia. One of our sleepless knights.
Bishop Sadlier will not wear the Anglican
gaiters at Gippsland, after all; he prefers to
stick to his Maoriland billet. The Gipps-
land job goes to George Harvard Cranswick,
whose father is a canon of Sydney Cathe-
dral. Cranswick, who is “low church,” will
easily be the youngest Anglican bishop in
the Commonwealth, as he is only 34. He
was born in Sheffield (Eng.), but came to
Sydney with his father when a few months
old. Dad went as curate to Dr. Pain at
Darlinghurst; the son now succeeds Pain as
Bishop of Gippsland. Young Cranswick is
an old boy of The King’s School, Parra-
matta, and a B.A. of Sydney Uni. After
working for a while as a schoolmaster in
Geelong (Vic.) and Armidale (N.S.W.) he
went to Oxford to acquire the bleat that hall-
marks an Anglican parson. He served his
time in a Cold Country curacy; then bossed
a missionary school in India for four years.
Part of the time he was chaplain to Azariah,
the first native Indian to wear an Anglican
paitre. More recently he was expounding
the Word in Sydney; and a couple of months
ago he succeeded the veteran of Australian
Anglicanism, Dean MacCullagh, at St.
Paul’s, Bendigo. He is married to a daugh-
ter of E. C. Hordern, of the Pitt-street
drapery firm.
September birthdays: G. D. Delprat (B.H.
Prop. gen. manager), 61 on Ist; J. Le Gay
Brereton (poet and Sydney Uni. librarian),
45 on 2nd; Prof. Francis Anderson (Syd.
Uni.), 59 on 3rd; C. J. Dennis (“Sentimental
Bloke”), 41 on 7th; Prof. E. C. Stirling
(Adel. Uni.), 69, and ex-S. Aus. Premier J.
G. Jenkins, 66 on Bth; A. B. Piddington
(Inter-State Commission), 55 on 9th; Dr.
Cherub Bevan (Adel.), 75 on 11th; H. W.
Potts (Hawkesbury Coll.), 62 on 12th; ex-
Bishop Frodsham (N.Q.), 54 on 14th; L. H.
Sholl (ex-Under Sec., S. Aus), 73 on 15th;
G. A. Gibbs (Melb. Metrop. Bd. of Works),
55 on 17th; Bishop Golding-Bird (Kalgoor-
lie), 43 on 18th.
Died last week in Maoriland, William
Lane, disillusioned dreamer. Lane felt that
society was all wrong. He believed that,
without altering human nature, it could be
organised on much better lines. He despaired
of Parliamentary methods —despaired, at any
rate, of rapid action that way. Some men
in the circumstances would have whispered
“Revolution.” Lane was too gentle, too for-
giving, to be a revolutionary of the gun-
powder-and-steel sort. The only way out
that he could see was to take a select party
into an empty foreign land and form there
the ideal settlement to serve as an object-
lesson for the world. The Worker, of Bris-
bane, of which he was editor, was his plat-
form. From this he preached with eloquent
fervor the glories of the New Australia that
he was to found in Paraguay. The pilgrims
left Sydney in the midst of the Labor awak-
ening of 25 years ago. It is enough to say
now that the scheme failed —and Lane came
back to Australia still hardly daring to be-
lieve the evidences of his own experience.
But put this at least to his credit: he tried.
A most forcible writer, he was at once re-
employed on the press, and for the past four
years was editor of the N.Z. Herald, of
Auckland. Aged 56. ‘
Just-dead John Haynes once scored off
that doughty old fighter Henry Copeland.
The Lyne Government had been formed and
Copeland was shut out of it. “Uproarious”
didn’t half describe his condition. . He
wouldn’t look at his old colleagues, and the
Reidites sent him off in another direction.
He wanted a room to himself—a sort of
political Fort Hudson. Speaker Abbott was
importuned every evening. “Would he set
a room aside for him?” “Would he have
one built?” After about a month of this
the Speaker at last announced that he had
provided the room. “Has it got padded
walls?” John asked.
What roundabout ways lead to the
trenches! During the Panama Exposition
in 1915 Arthur Henry Banninger, of
’Frisco, and his pard (now cobber) Ralph
Viers Leggett, of Kansas, were struck by
the exhibits in the
Australian Court.
After the show had
closed they dis-
cussed the country
that produced
those things, and
stowed away on a
vessel outward-
bound. They were
found and com-
pelled to work
their passage, but
had no trouble in
getting jobs when
they reached Mel-
bourne. At last
America butted
into the firing-line,
and they remem-
bered that they
were citizens of
the TJ.S. So they
marched together
to Melbourne Town
Hall recrui ting
depot, and nre now
in camp.
SONENBERG,
Melbourne's well-
known criminal
lawyer.
The three Lindsays, Norman, Lionel and
Percy, are to have a joint exhibition in the
Fine Arts Society’s new galleries in Mel-
bourne. Norman supplies water-colors,
Percy oils and Lionel etchings. Principally
by virtue of Norman’s nudes drenched in
sunlight, the show promises to induce Block
saunterers to get a move on up the hill.
“Masetto”: Stored away somewhere in
Melbourne Public Library is a large group
of portraits of early colonists, some of whom,
by the way, did a
little towards found-
ing the institution.
This interesting relic
has not seen the light
for ages. Surely in an
Australian institution
like the Library a few
square feet of wall
could be found for an
important exhibit like
this. If it has been
put under hatches be-
cause it isn’t suffici-
ently “artistic,” some
of the alleged art
hanging about should
have gone before _ it.
The Historical Society
might ask to have the
old identities honor-
ably hung again.
Never mind the an-
tique cut of their
clothes and whiskers.
CAPTAIN J. C.
GLANVILLE, Aide-
de-camp to Sir Newdy-
Nudigatc, new Gover-
nor of Tasmania.
While Edmund Milne was at Orange
(N.S.W.) as Superintendent of the Western
District railways, he was nicknamed
“Old Ironbark,” and regarded as a
certainty for the seventies or eighties.
It was a surprise to many of his
old friends that he should have gone off
duty at 55—though he had been ill for some
time. Facially he somewhat resembled Abe
Lincoln, but was not above medium height.
Lean, wiry, hard-working and plain-spoken,
he was a good specimen of the Australian
bushman. A crack shot, holding many
prizes, he was_ proud of his organisation of
the Railway Rifle Club, which provided many
good Billjims. He was a better writer than
speaker, and through all his articles on the
explorers and the aborigines there rang the
note of genuine patriotism. He knew the
traffic men well and they respected him, and
were proud of his climb from telegraph-boy
to second Commissioner. He was a great
admirer and loyal supporter of his chief,
James Fraser, and during his last illness
insisted upon going to the office to help in
dealing with the strike. When not thus
engaged his thoughts were most of the time
with his two sons —Major C. O. Milne,
D. 5.0., and Captain C. J. Milne, ■whom he
had not seen since they left Sydney in the
early days of the war.
Brig.-General F. E. Johnston, eldest son
of C. J. Johnston, Speaker of Maoriland’s
Legislative Council, recently killed in
France, was a native of Wellington (M.L.).
Soldiering was his profession, and in the
regular army he first had a taste of the real
thing with the Dongola Expedition in 1596.
During the S’African melee he collected sun-
dry medals and clasps. In 1914 he was a
major on furlough in Maoriland and being
ordered to join the M.L. Expeditionary
Force left . as colonel commanding the
Infantry Brigade. He went right through
Gallipoli, then moved to France, and rose to
be brig.-general before a Hun marksman
ended his race. A young brother, Lieut.
Johnston, was killed last year.
A word from Cosme. the Paraguayan off-
shoot from Bill Lane’s New r Australia colony :
hen the Mad Bog broke loose, D. R. Stevenson,
of Oosme, reached for his gun and headed for
Asuncion. As he looked to be over the age-limit
the authorities didn t show much enthusiasm; but
by careful lying he managed to overcome their
scruples and lit out for the Front, where he was
kept busy until a few months ago, when he got him-
self pincushioned. After being patched up he was
sent back to Paraguay, and a few days ago the
whole settlement met the warrior at the bridge and
conducted him through the big monte to Cosm£,
where it gave him such a rousing Australian welcome
that the howling monkeys fled into the depths of the
jungle. Stevenson, with 53 years’ strenuous life
behind him, is about as tough a rag as ever swung
an axe or flourished a pair of tongs; but that little
home-coming broke him up.
The worm turned in Melbourne last week
and bit Adela Pankhurst. She was
then ordered to gaol for a month for
repairs. Adela came to Australia, where
woman-suffrage had long been estab-
lished. tor the purpose of explaining
the plans of the militant suffragettes in
Britain, which was to make mere men poli-
ticians look ridiculous until they gave women
the vote As it would have been too absurd
to attack man for doing here what she had
attacked him for not doing in Britain <sh
switched on to the war; and because ’Jj
of the men who talked talked on the BritUh
side, she began to chatter at Britain oVA
offer apologies for Germany. She doesn’f
really hate Britain. All that is the matfeJ
with Adela is that she isn’t married
hasn’t opinions; she has only an obscure
disease.
Somebody publicly suggests that Dave
Plennessy should be a sport” and relinquish
his grip on Melbourne’s gaud-mayoraltv R„*
Hennessy is as unlike a sport as any baker
on earth. He’s just a dull, unbending ~n
comfortable-looking person in pince-nez’ and
a stove-pipe hat. He wears his gaud-mavor
alty with a seriousness which infects the "air
Other mayors have been more fussy, but none
more conscious of their awful position He
loves being mayor, and he would hardly have
passed up his candidature for a sixth helnin?
if he hadn’t assured himself that he was
going to get it. Frank Stapley is said to he
a rival candidate, but if he is only hoping for
David to “be a sport” he hopes in vain.
Twenty-four years have seen tremendous
changes in the Supreme Court Bench in N
S. Wales. In that time no less than a dozen
men have gone up to it from the Bar. But
in Vie., during the same period, only one
man has reached the well-paid berth.
Went West the other day at Hobart a
sure-enough centenarian, James Park, who
would have been 102 if he had lived a month
longer. He came from Scotland 77 years
ago as a youth of 25, tried Port Phillip f or
a couple of years, and then put in three-
quarters of a century in Tasmania. He
reckoned that a moderate use of whisky
combined with the climate kept him up gj
long.
Bed is woman’s last ditch. The cable
says that the Chateau of Queen-mother
Alexandra’s sister Dagmar, Dowager Czar-
ina, was searched; whereupon the lady in-
dignantly took to her nightie and the
searchers were afraid to intrude upon the
Czar’s mother and King George’s aunt in
that costume. Lola Montes knew all about
the last, strong refuge of woman. When
Sydney creditors pressed her she fled to the
outgoing steamer and undressed. That beat
them.
OH, CHARMING.
“Has your wife a nice disposition ?”
“What?”
“I say has your wife a nice disposition?”
“I heard you the first time, old man, but!
wanted to make sure she wasn't about
before I replied.”
Died in his sleep in Adelaide, A. R.
Mursell, Renmark’s most prominent tennis-
player in its early days, but for the last 20
years accountant to the big firm of G. and R
Wills at Port Adelaide. He was as good a
business man as he was a sport, highly
musical and highly popular—and only 54.
“Musketoon”: John Walker, one-time
Moderator of N. S. Wales Presbyterian
Assembly, who on his election guaranteed
to collect £lOO,OOO in six months for St.
Andrew’s College within Sydney Uni. and did
it, is now a chaplain with Billjim. His wife
is at a Red Cross depot in France; so is a
daughter. All of the not-so-old people's
seven sons joined the colors ; three have been
killed. The only member of the family not
in uniform is a married daughter, and she
wants to get into Red Cross work.
ON THE QUAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Ere where the town and ’arbor join their ’ands,
An’ rockeries an’ other buildin’s stands,
1 love ter sit, an’ think, an’ sit some more,
Watchin’ the red roofs on the Mosman shore,
The clouds that ’ang, an’ other clouds that float,
The street-cars, an’ the bustlin’ Manly boat,
The pub be’ind, whose gay doors swing an’ shut,
The warm streets bendin’ westward to the Cut,
The ferries belchin’ crowds of grim gazobs
Tearin’ like mad to ’old their daily jobs,
The sunnin’ dogs no ’urryin’ boot may rouse,
The sleepy square before the Custom ’Ouse,
The Deutscher wharf that dreams of glories past,
The far-off doorway of the First an’ Last —
Cobber, it’s bosker, take it straight from me,
’Ere in the sunlight, sittin’ on the Quay!
Yeh’d think, ter see me sittin’ ’ere so still,
Scrapin’ a match, or ’ummin’ for a fill
To stuff my pipe with every now an’ then,
1 ’ad no brains, like whips of other men.
I never ’old with skitin’ —wot’s the good ?
Or I might quote yer “Never Unnerstood,”
Or somethin’ similar and aprer po
(A bloke might call it) givin’ yeh the know
Of w’y I’m dreamin’ ’ere, as you might say,
Winnin’ the war my own perculyer way.
There’s crowds of blokes ’oo never, as they ought,
Are givin’ it a bloomin’ minute’s thought.
But ’earken, if yeh never did before;
I’m givin’ yeh the office— there’s a War !
There's tons of things a bloke will come ter see
’Ere in the sunlight, sittin’ on the Quay.
’Old ’ard a shake —it’s bonzer in the sun—
An’ don’t go orf before I’ve ’alf begun.
Plain as yer dial (an’ that’s plain enough!)
Yell'll see that some must scrap an’ others bluff;
An’ some (like us), obeyin’ Freedom’s laws,
Give lovin’ relatives to ’elp the Cause.
There's blokes ’oo love ter fight, an’ blokes, like me,
’Oo give their brains (an’ never grudge ’em) free.
Each in ’is little niche ’is bit can do—
I’ve give a nephew, an’ a pal or two,
A cousin, an’ a brother with a kid,
Two uncles, an’ a bloke I owed a quid.
It’s up to all to ’ump their burden, so
The bloke ’oo wants ter fight—well, let ’im go!
I’ll do the talkin’. That’s the lurk for me,
’Ere in the sunshine, sittin’ on the Quay.
“ ’Ere with a loaf er bread, some beer, an’ thou !”
(Wot was the tune of that old Persian cow?) —
Well, that’s just wot I feel like. Bet yer boots
Them gay old roosters, just like modern coots,
Knoo w’en ter fight, an’ w’en ter use the nut,
Put the ’ard word, or keep the dial shut.
I ’card a cove last Sunday talkin’ big,
Stuck, like Nathaniel, underneath the fig
Down in the Dom. ; ’e put the words across—
Fair took me fancy: “Economic loss,”
“Conservin’ brains,” an’ “Duty ter the State,”
An’ “Blokes can serve ’oo only stand an’ wait!”
I’d never felt, until ’e turned the tricks,
A bloke could be so noble, doin’ nix.
I’ll sit an’ wait —I got a ’ousemaid’s knee —
’Ere in the sunshine, baskin’ on the Quay.
Strike me, it's great! I never thought, before
I ’eard these things, jus’ wot we’re fightin’ for.
But w’en a bloke ’oo’s never understood
Gets wise, ’e wakes, an’ calls ’is country good ;
An’ w’en the blarst of war blows in ’is ears,
’Ee ups an’ says, “Blokes, cast away your fears!
Arise an’ gird yer ’ips ter meet the foe—
Or, if yeh can’t, then let yer cobber go!
An’ us yeh leave be’ind ter go an’ fight,
We’ll bless yeh in our little beds at night!”
Jus’ twig them skimmin’ sails like seagulls’ wings,
Them shimmerin’ waves, an’ all the other things,
An’ thank the brains I’m rackin’ fer their sake,
An’ also (if yeh’ve time) the blokes that make
This clolsey far nienty safe for me,
’Ere in the sunlight, sittin’ on the Quay!
VICTOBIA.
J. ALEX ALLAN.


r*
'^r A 'W \
J®** 'A 7 \
Ec
r; /
V
*«c
J*-.
W
%
■ ‘
p
.i s ■
L.. **. \iWc ■£
:#
y ■» *
y ’?. *
SySS*?
**. s ‘,
4s**-’• iff , •' . -af*
*6 iff* >iftia&&Y.-i&-. ••»
>.-.- -x*.* 4
, tf *
•3T <*
r $ ~
3^
■ w
W A
l V-
\ «
.v **? >*
*>.
r.K Aw
S $
/
»»•
, ‘Hfe •• / l
■ \<z
:;'■ \
■J.-wkWC "*
Mi...
vi&'* ■%!
111 V
s»y*L
# 5®.3
£ \
, *,: ; w
,I V I
•••'-
;.A v
w-;:
*' i >
*v
A
<FS
«*
4’*v
,c *
s. '
VC.
cc
■*?«**?:
■>. w
*
J
A
JZ
*l,l
c
Kr!
*
//
ii-'CfSStt .oK
|3"r.S«, ,• ■.?
u
A V
,A ..
V,,.
V .A
AN “AUSTRAL” TAILORED SUIT
AT EIGHTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
To-dav we are displaying a most exceptional range of Australian All-wool Tweeds
of medium and light weight in a variety of attractive colorings and patterns.
This special exhibit may be viewed in our main Show Windows or in the Tailoring
seCtion at both Stores, and merits a visit of inspection during the next few days.
An “Austral” Sac Suit to measure of any of these good fabrics costs no more than
eighty-five shillings, and is convincing evidence of the standard of value of
“Austral” Tailoring at whatever the price.
Country Customers and those who live at a distance may choose from patterns of
these special Suitings, which we send post free to any address on request.
Carriage is I‘aid on all Country Orders.
New
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484 to 490 George Street, 3=17 Royal Arcade,
Branch Shop at 304 George Street (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Dead
Antlmonial Dead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY PAYOR ABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAS
Lead Drosses, ete.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street. E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY 25 O'Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILDCAT
COUMN
The Bank of Queensland. —This is an
amalgamation of the Royal of Queensland
and the Bank of North Queensland, and the
capital was arrived at by valuing all the
assets at bedrock. The North Queensland
had a capital of £162,500 and a reserve of
£40,097 as at December 31 last. In the
reconstruction the £40,097 has gone: either
it has disappeared altogether or it has been
transferred to a contingency account. Share-
holders, however, lost none of their capital
—at least, none that they had not written
off many years ago. The Royal, which had
not carved down capital so strenuously, had
to suffer for its neglect to have an earlier
cleaning up. It had 09,999 ordinary shares
of £9 paid to £0 10s. and 7112 pref. shares
fully paid to £lO. and £19,640 had been pre-
paid on the ordinaries. The agreement
arrived at was to refund the prepaid capital
in full, and as to the prefs. to give in ex-
change either fixed deposits of one, two and
three years’ currency, carrying interest at
a rate equal to and varying with the rate
of dividend, or ordinary shares —in either
case to the full face value of the shares.
The bulk of the pref. capital was ex-
changed for deposits. The old £6 10s. shares
were written down to £4, which meant
£280,000 in the new capital; and £7500
was issued in exchange for prefs. That
brought the capital of the ne.w bank to an
even £450,000, divided into 45,000 shares;
and it has authority to issue another 55,000.
The issued shares are fully paid. The whole
writing down worked out as follows :
North Queensland, capital . . . . Nil
North Queensland, reserves (approx.).. £40,000
Royal, capital .. .. •• 175,000
Royal, reserves (approx.) . . . . 85,000
Total . • • • . . .. £300,000
To what extent the old reserves have been
available for purposes of an inner reserve is
of course not visible from the accounts.
There is, however, reason to believe that
the new bank starts off with a substantial
contingency fund. At any rate, it was
announced that the representatives of the
Royal, on overhauling the North Queensland
prior to the amalgamation, had not found
it necessary to write down the assets —which
means that from that side of the amalgama-
tion there was £40,000 to the good over and
above the capital.
The writing-down has been directed
mainly to the advances, but to some extent
to the premises. The latter are valued at
£157,500; presently, no doubt, this amount
will be reduced by the sale of superfluous
offices, in Brisbane especially. For the new
bank’s first half-year profits have naturally
been affected by the fact that the economies
which can certainly be made have not yet
been possible—in regard to these now-super-
fluous premises, for instance. Also the half-
year has had to stand expenses of amalga-
mation and extra taxation. In the first half-
year’s accounts published after January,
1916, the two banks showed a profit of
£21,880. The new bank .is content to show
£17.220 for its first half. Out of that a div.
of 6 p.c. is paid ; this means 6 p.c. to the
old North Queensland shareholders and a
shade under 4 p.c. to Royal shareholders.
In the half-year prior to the amalgamation
North Queensland paid 6 p.c. and the Royal
44 p.c.; but the latter called for an amount
in excess of the disclosed profit.
The Bank of Queensland starts off well
equipped. Shareholders and public alike will
probably note one thing in particular: at
the head of it is a general manager who
was so careful that his published accounts
should mean what they said that when a
rival concern overhauled his securities with
a view to amalgamation it did not find it
necessary to write off a penny of capital.
Liabilities at, July 31 were £3.005.000; and
£1,204,835 of this, equal to just over 40 p.c.,
was liquid.
Amalgamated Wireless (Austral-
asia) , Ltd. :
Nomi-
Written To Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, T4..5616 21 p.c.= 5600 3000 16 16
Dec., ’14.. 7812 5 ~,, 3500 4312 4328
June, ’15.. 4611 7 „ „ 4900 2938 1101
Dec., ’l5. . 2230 Nil 2230 3331
June, T6..6235 5 p.c. = 7000 1543 1023
Dec., ’16.. 6150 Nil 1610 4540 5563
June, ’17.. 4623 5 p.c. = 7000 2709 477
That means 24 p.c. for the past 12 months,
the same as in the preceding year. The co.’s
capital is £140.000. of which £90,000 is
represented by patent rights, licenses and
exclusive agencies—these include the Aus-
tralasian rights in the Marconi, Poulsen and
Telefunken wireless systems. Wireless
itself is not, however, patentable; and the
Commonwealth Government has a system of
its own. The £90,000 is therefore not v-ery
productive capital at present, though the
parent English co., which holds many of the
90,000 shares, has apparently the utmost
confidence in the future —of the Marconi sys-
tem in particular. Probably that accounts
for an announcement in the directors’ report.
Six months ago the Board, believing that
“further immediate extension of the wireless
business of the co. in Australia cannot be
expected,” decided to invest some money in
outside concerns, and purchased a control-
ling interest in a motor-car agency. Now: —
The investment has so far justified its introduction
by paying interest at the rate of 6 p.c.; but in view
of the possibility of further extension in several
departments of our existing business, and in other
directions more closely allied thereto, the directors
have considered the advisability of releasing the
capital thus invested, and are pleased to report that
since the close of the half-year satisfactory arrange-
ments have been made in this connection.
For the present the revenue is prejudiced by
the practical prohibition of ships’ messages;
and it will continue so till the end of the
war. Afterwards much will depend upon
the attitude of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment towards private wireless business.
Against the profit for the past half-year
£2709 is shown as written off. Of this, how-
ever, £lOOO. has been added to a marine in-
surance fund. That fund is bundled in the
published accounts with a patents deprecia-
tion reserve: the total of the lot is £20,547.
Apart from patents and other goodwill
assets the co. has £46,432 in plant, stores,
etc., and £45.093 liquid and invested; and
it owes £12,500. But plant, stores, etc., of
this character are for the most part worth
just what they will earn. In other words,
i f the co. couldn’t make a profit by using
the plant, it could probably get very little
for most of it by an auction sale. So the
value of the shares is entirely governed, not
by the visible assets, but by the probabilities
of private wireless business.
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat,
Vic.) :
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1909.. £4160 74 p.c. =£3187 £973 £76,640
June, 1910.. 4204 74 „ „ 3187 1017 77,657
Dec., 1910.. 4176 71 „ „ 3187 989 78,646
June, 1911.. 4276 71 ~ ~ 3187 1089 79,735
Dec., 1911.. 4356 74 „ „ 3187 1169 80,904
June, 1912.. 4395 74 ~ „ 3187 1208 82,112
Dec., 1912.. 4481 8 „ „ 3400 1081 83,193
June, 1913.. 4449 8 „ „ 3400 1049 84,242
Dec., 1913.. 4480 8 „ „ 3400 1080 85,322
June, 1914.. 4514 8 „ „ 3400 1114 86,436
Dec., 1914.. 4534 8 „ „ 3400 1134 87,570
June, 1915.. 4566 8 ~ „ 3400 1166 88,736
Dec., 1915.. 4581 9 „ „ 3825 756 89,492
June, 1916 . . 4611 9 „ „ 3825 786 90,278
Dec.. 1916.. 4633 9 „ 3825 808 91,086
June, 1917.. 4678 9 „ „ 3825 853 91,939
This little bank goes a good way in a long
time: it has got as far as this in 52 years.
It would have got further if in the boom
days of 25 years back it hadn’t tried to go
faster and missed the step. Now, with its
one office, and that in a city whose old
glory of gold has departed, it is
content to plod along, and when it finds that
it is putting by more than a thousand in the
half-year up goes the dividend. In the
past eight years it has put by £15,000, and
that at 5 p.c. pays more than half the extra
11 p.c. dividend. Otherwise—well, here is
a bird’s-eye view over 20 years (figures are
as at June 30): —
1897. 1907. 1917.
Capital and reserves .. £142,801 £159,803 £180,764
Liabilities . . . . 202,435 238,658 239,375
Liquid assets . . . . 69,580 79,279 94,856
Advances . . . . 263,961 313,627 322,783
Pemises, etc. . . . . 11,695 5,555 2,500
A bank which has the use of little more
than £1 of the public’s money for every £1
of its own, and keeps 40 p.c. of its liabilities
liquid, can’t expect to make anything gaudy
in the way of profits; actually they show a
trifle less than 51 p.c. on capital and reserves
combined, and shareholders get under 44
p.c. Looking at it that way some impetuous
shareholders have suggested now and then
that if the directors can’t see their way to
launch out they should sell\ out. But the
directors stand pat. Ballarat is the only
town in Australia outside the State capitals
which has a bank of its own; and the
average Ballarat' man has enough pride in
the old place to want to hang on to all the
distinctions it has.
The Brisbane Electric Tramways
Investment Co. :
, Dividends. Re-
Profits. Pref. Ord. serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £
1906.. 24,961 .5 p.c.= 17,812 2 p.c.= 7,500 16,983
1907.. 32,669 5 „ ~17,812 4 „ ~15,000 16,840
1908.. 39,858 5 „ ~17,812 6 ~ ~22,500 16,386
1909.. 47,977 5 „ ~17,695 8 „ ~30,000 16,668
1910.. 77,014 5 „ ~17,656 8 „ ~30,000 46,026
1911.. 87,705 5 „ ~17,656 8 „ ~30,000 86,075
£ 75,1000 of reserves capitalised .. 11,075
1912.. 56,362 5 p.c.= 17,656 8 p.c.= 36,000 13 781
1913.. 92,998 5 „ ~17,656 8 „ ~36,000 53,123
1914. .115,251 5 „ ~17,656 8 „ ~47,649 103]069
1915. . 75,048 5 „ „ 16,250 8 „ „ 48,000 113,867
1916.. 75,731 5 „ ~14,531 8 „ ~48,000 127,067
This co., registered in England, practically
owns the co. that owns the Brisbane trams.
The real owner is the also English-registered
Brisbane Tramways Co., in 150,000 shares;
the Investment Co. owns 149,893 of them.
The effect of this arrangement is that no
obstreperous person can go into the market,
buy a share in the tramways and then go
to the meetings and find out all about every-
thing. But the tramway co., though it nomi-
nally owns the system, doesn't put up the
money for extensions; this investment co.
does anything necessary in that way, and
during the past five years has spent on con-
struction, etc., the following amounts: —
1912 .. £51,596 I 1915 .. £70,068
1913 .. 56,376 I 1916 .. 32,194
1914 . . 103,751 I
That means £313.985 in five years; and the
only new capital which has been got in
during the period is £150,000 in ordinary
shares. A trifle has been got from the bank ;
the balance consists of undivided profit. In
these five years, as the first table shows, the
dividends received from the tramways co.
have paid the small amount which the man-
agement of this co. costs, provided the* divi-
dends and left £115,992 over.
Meantime also the tramways co. has in-
creased its renewal fund from £90,000 to
£150.000. Apparently, however, it has not
stored up any reserves to speak of. No
balance-sheet of the tramway co. is pub-
lished ; hut the investment co. supplies
enough material for this table: —
Dec., Receipts. 'Expenses. Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1906. . £141,677 £82,525 £59,152 £50,000 £25,674
1907.. 159,111 88,489 70,622 57,000 39,296
1908.. 178,510 94,964 83,546 65,000 57,842
1909.. 199,263 105,082 94,181 75,000 77,023
1910.. 222,580 115,695 106,885-106,000 77,908
1911.. 253,970 129,284 124,686 110,000 92,594
1912.. 254,838 162,305 92,533 80,000 105,127
1913. . 316,244 191,936 124,308 116,000 113,435
1914.. 348,406 194,960 153,446 144,000 122,881
1915.. 372,304 233,761 138,543 95,000 166,424
1916.. 389,081 279,192 109,889 95,000 181,313
There is some doubt about £7500 of this:
that much profit was appropriated in 1915
for a fund to cover depreciation of invest-
ments. Expenses, it will be noticed, have
galloped along. In 1913 they were 60.7 p.c.
of the receipts; last year 71.8 p.c. What
taxes amounted to in the old days isn’t
known to this paper. Last year the bill
(including British excess profits duty) was
£00,660, or about 7s. 6d. in the £. And that
isn’t the lot; for the investment co. has to
pay taxes, too. The div. on ordinary shares
is paid free of income tax, but the pref. share’
holders have apparently to carry their own
burden. Which is no doubt why the 5 p.c.
was worth to them only £14,531 last year as
against £17,656 before the war.
The co.’s rights run to 1921: the under-
taking may then be acquired by the public
at a fair valuation, no charge to be made
for goodwill. The co. probably feels very
comfortable about it all; for if, as seems
highly probable, the State steps in with a
notice of purchase, the valuers will of course
have to take into account the price of tram-
way material and the cost of construction at
the moment; and on present appearances
construction materials are not going to be
cheap for a good many years to come.
The Australian Drug Co. (Sydney) :
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £4766 5 p.c. = £3760 £lOl6 £10,252
1912.. 3419 5 „ „ 3750 9,921
1913.. 8572 10 „ „ 7500 1072 10,993
1914.. 8875 10 ~ „ 7500 1375 12,368
1915.. 8921 10 „ „ 7500 1421 13,789
1916. . 9885 10 „ „ 7500 2385 16,174
1917.. 9985 10 „ „ 7500 2485 18,659
This co. is doing its bit, and is nowadays
something better than an importer of drugs
and chemicals. There is, among other things,
a well-equipped factory at Chippendale for
the scientific handling of raw materials;
here, for example, various cod-liver oil pre-
parations are turned out, equal, it is
claimed, to any imported. Certainly, the law
sees to it that the materials are pure when
they are used, and the public can have an
assurance that the contents are also reason-
ably fresh when the bottle is uncorked.
The co. started under unusually favorable
conditions. The business had for years been
short of capital. What it needed was sup-
plied by people who had plenty of it; and
not a penny was paid for goodwill. A year
or two were spent in building and reorgan-
isation ; then the co. began to make the pro-
fits which had been figured on. And pro-
bably a bit more; for the co., having large
ambitions, had stocked heavily, and the
sudden outbreak of war is hardlv likely to
have done its profits any harm. It had the
good luck to be just ready for the oppor-
tunity that came its way. Its share capital
(£75,000) being insufficient, it raised £25 000
on debentures. “To strengthen the financial
position,” the directors put it. they propose
now to pay off this debt and issue 25,000
new £1 shares at par on January I next
These are to be offered pro rata to present
shareholders; payment in full is to be made
before the end of this year, “so that all
shares will rank equally for dividends from
January 1, 1918.” There is very little doubt
that a 10 p.c. div. is at least hoped for
During the past four years the profit, includ
ing the 5 p.c. interest on debentures, has
been in excess of the amount required to nni-
-10 p.c. on the £100,000; and there is good
reason to believe that, in valuing stocks
etc., liberal provision has been made for
contingencies. And every year the disclosed
profit has shown an increase. Apart from
the debenture debt the liabilities total
£37,751. Finance seems to be an easy pro-
blem ; in addition to £52,023 in book debts
there are cash balances and other liquid
assets £10,601. Other assets include stock
£75,034 and freehold, plant and fixtures
£18.158. Though additions have been made
to these latter every year and especially
during the past year they stand now
at about £2OOO less than in 11)14—which is
a further hint of a conservative policy of
writing-down.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd.
f Dividends.
Pref. To Re-
done, Profits. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves Deficit
1908. ■ AC44O
, Reserves.
1909 .. c 4,087 £844 114 p.c.= £1,562 £1,681 4 241
1910.. 4,981 1267 124 „ „ 2,187 1,527 e’76B
1911.. 3,456 2250 4 „ „ 900 306 3074
1912.. 8,677 3470 10 „ „ 2,250 2,957 6 031
1913.. 11,015 4081 12J „„ 2,812 4,122 10’,153
April,
1914.. 8,790 3467 124 „„ 2,344 2,979 13,132
Deficit
Co. reconstructed ; £22,500 in new
June, shares issued for goodwill .. 9 350
1915. . 19,603 4200 8 p.c. = 7,782 7,621 1*747
, Reserves,
1916.. 45,099 4200 154 „ „ 14,248 26,651 24 901
1917.. 26,284 4200 104 „ „ 12,800 9,284 34J88
There is a formal reserve fund of £25,000
plus unappropriated profit £31,688; total
£56,688. Deduct the goodwill item £22,500,
and you get the £34,1.88 shown above as true
reserves —the amount in excess of the capital
represented by tangible assets. In a case of
this sort, however, and taking all the circum-
stances of the hour into account, a co. has
a lot of justification in showing as capital
the money which it has spent in building
up the business. If it doesn’t, the rate of
dividend is liable to mislead onlookers.
It was all to the good of Australia that
this co. was charged with energy; and when
the war gave it a chance which the politi-
cians had refused, it jumped in, and the
subsequent proceedings have been full of
vigor. Some of the result is shown in this
comparison : —•
1915. 1916. 1917.
Liabilities ..£46,076 £75,730 £113,984
Freeholds .. 21,297 24,000 33,194
Plant, etc. . . 36,942 45,000 53,432
Book debts . . 49,918 56,802 69,322
Stock .. .. 74,591 128,437 181,845
Cash, etc. .. 8,789 4,148 6,600
To finance the increased business and the
very much larger stocks which that and war
circumstances have called for the co. has not
depended wholly upon borrowed money:
during the past year 50,000 new £1 ordinary
shares have been issued. That makes the
share capital £185,618 —£22,500 in 8 p.c.
cumulative prefs. (“A” shares), £30.000 in
8 p.c. cumulative prefs. (“B” shares),
£118,737 in fully paid ordinaries and £14,381
in ordinaries paid to 10s. Of the additional
£147,510 put into the business during the
past two years £43,667 has come from share-
holders and £35,935 from undivided profits,
while £67,908 is outside money. Revenue,
besides providing this surplus of £35.935
after paying exes, and dividends, has pro-
vided substantial sums for depreciation—as
far as can be traced, something like £7OOO
during the past year, of which £5092 has
been struck off plant. Altogether a fine
record. And from the public point of view
the increase in the outgoings is even finer.
The wages bill is not disclosed; but in
general exes, (salaries, printing, commission,
etc.) £92,168 was charged against gross
profits last year, while in 1915 it was only
£64,468.
* * * *
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co. :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, 1910.. £42,624 £20,000 £5,166 £91,076
Dec., 19 1 0.. 72,42 7 6 0,0 0 0 5,081 98,422
June, 1911.. 77,06 5 60,00 0 5,087 111.000
Dec., 1911.. 128,134 90,000 5,301 143,833
June, 191 2.. 141,63 9 1 20,000 5,684 159,788
Dec., 1912.. 217,776 170,000 5,809 201,755
June, 1913.. 119,936 160,000 5,698 155,993
Dec., 1913.. 177,091 140,000 5,561 187,523
June, 19 1 4.. 146,7 5 6 1 40,0 0 0 5,597 188,682
Dec., 1914.. 95,082 Nil 6,116 277,648
June, 1915.. 136,291 30,000 12,520 371,419
Dec., 1915.. 163,869 90,000 6,900 438,388
June, 1916.. 2 2 3,110 1 20,0 00 1 0,294 531,204
Dec., 1916.. 2 43,348 1 20,000 1 6,511 638,041
June, 1917.. 249,192 120,000 15,734 751,499
At the co.’s last half-yearly meeting the
question of the rate of dividend was raised.
“This.” the directors now say, “has had
the careful consideration of the Board, and
in face of the serious financial and industrial
outlook it is considered inadvisable to in-
crease it at present.” The largest visible
trouble ahead is the difficulty of getting
the products away; and that lias already


When instructing your Solicitor
to draw
YOU R WILL
direct him to name
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
AS YOUR EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE.
You will thus ensure the safety of th e asset
and obtain a degree of Security for Piopei
Administration far beyond the power of the
private “amateur” trustee.
An interesting booklet will be posted on
application to the Company at
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CHAMBERS,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. ..25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
If you have a motor running in a very dirty or
dusty place, protect it by means of a Type “F”
Form “K —20” totally enclosed Oil Switch, which
is provided with no voltage and instantaneous or
time-limit over load protection, acting' as an in-
surance against costly repairs to your plant, thus
increasing your profits. These switches are especially
manufactured for mining and industrial service, and
the Australian General Electric Co. will be pleased
to forward any information desired on these switches
or any other control problem that may present
itself to you.— Advt.
* * * 41-
Primitive man’s first thought was for shelter, and
architecture had its origin in man’s need of a roof
to protect him from the elements. The first roof
was made from branches of trees. Then came tiles
made of mud, from then up to the twentieth century
there has been steady progress in roofings, until to-day
the acme of perfection in roofings has been reached in
Adamax. Adamax Asphaltum Roofing is the best
that money can buy. It resists the elements, will
neither rust, rot, sweat, crumble nor pinhole. It
is acid-, vermin- and water-proof. You can use
Adamax for roofing factories, mine buildings, farm
buildings, garages, etc. Adamax costs one-third the
present price of galvanised-iron, and the railage and
freight is almost one-third less. Write for catalogue
and sample. William Adams k Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.— Advt. [1
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the logical pipe for water-
systems, has greater carrying capacity, is easier to
handle and' to lay, is lighter and saves cost in
freight, costs from 25 per cent, to 60 per cent, less
than metal pipes, and is the cleanest pipe for convey-
ing water, which preserves instead of corroding wood
pipe, making it last indefinitely. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited, (head office) 57 York Street, Sydney.
Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footseray, Vic.; and
Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments. — Advt.
If you have not heard of Lottoid you have not
heard of the best lining and ceiling material.
Lottoid is a Plaster Sheet made in Australia, into
various sizes up to nine feet long; it has a beautiful,'
snow-white surface, which does not require painting,
and is only 2/6 per sq. yard. Samples from Spriggs’
Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
F.stimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Gyratory Rock Crusher, from Australian stock.
The world-renowned “McCully” No. 4 Manganese
fitted. Capacity 20 to 48 tons hourly. Apply,
sole representatives: Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
Head Office, The Quay, Sydney; or The Australian
Machinery Co. Ltd., 130 Charlotte-street, Bris-
bane. — Advt.
» * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
• • « •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* » * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby k Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
«• 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC STEEL
THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.
In the form of CASTINGS or INGOTS of Exceptional
Purity and Soundness, to meet the most Stringent
Chemical and Physical Specifications.
Made for the First Time in Australia by Australian Labor from Australian Raw Materials.
Suppliers of Special Steel to the separate State Governments.
AUSTRALIAN ELECTRIC STEEL LTD.,*!" ™.
meqnt a biggish lock-up of capital. This
comparison shows what is happening:—
Deo., ’l4. Dec., ’l6. June, T 7.
Deposits, etc. .. £78,878 £581,831 £605,985
Sundry debtors. . 22,912 55,416 7,716
Products on hand 128,000 176,490 265,772 .
£229,790 £763,737 £879,473
Less liabilities 31,244 251,803 266,069
Surplus ..£198,546 £511,934 £613,404
Still, in spite of an increase of about
£90,000 in metals unrealised and concen-
trates in hand and in suspense, the financial
position is very strong. Of the £605.985 of
deposits, etc., over £BOO,OOO consists of cash
balances; £90,000 is in War Loan and
£200,000 is represented by the co.’s holding
in the Associated Smelters. On the other
side, of the £266,069 liabilities £193,800 is
owing on long-dated debentures —money
raised to buy an interest in the smelters.
Put it this way: in the past 21 years of
war the South has paid £480.000 in divi-
dends (the capital is £163.727), made all
necessary additions to and renewals of
plant, and put by £414,858. It is not sug-
gested that all this is surplus profit. But,
apart from whatever may be necessary as
a sinking fund, the only visible contingent
liability is the war profits tax. The direc-
tors say they have “found it difficult to cal-
culate what the co.’s position under the bill
will be, and until the measure is passed the
Board proposes to keep a considerable sum
available at short call.” Actual payments
on account of income tax during last year
were £41,101. The royalty paid to the
State was £5636. For the past half-year
the amounts actually charged against
revenue were £44,237, of which £27,500 is
an appropriation to meet taxes not yet pay-
able.
The next comparison shows ore treated
and dividends paid during the past seven
years:—
Ore Treated. Divs. Paid.
Dee., 1910 .. 179,216 tons. £60,000
June, 1911 .. 175,044 „ 60,000
Dec.. 1911 .. 181,790 „ 90,000
June, 1912 .. 165,532 „ 120,000
Dec., 1912 .. 180,080 „ 170,000
June, 1913 . . 151,742 „ 160,000
Dec., 1913 .. 168,957 „ 140,000
June, 1914 .. 172,330 „ 140.000
Dec., 1914 .. 112,750 „ Nil
June, 1915 . . 131,059 „ 30,000
Dec., 1916 .. 163,494 „ 90,000
June, 1916 .. 92,653 „ 120,000
Dec., 1916 .. 157,059 „ 120,000
June, 1917 .. 121,433 „ 120,000
2,153,039 tons. £1,420,000
That works out at 13s. 2d. per ton of ore.
Part of this has been made out of previously-
produced zinc tailings, treated ijnder a
profit-sharing arrangement with the Zinc
Corporation. But as comparatively littld
has been delivered since the w r ar started, as
there are still 827,500 tons to deliver, and
as it is only during the last year that a
plant has been in operation for very profit-
ably treating slimes (of which there are
nearly 500.000 tons dumped), it can fairly
be reckoned that, given the same net prices
for metals, the profit should in future be as
good as in the past, calculated per ton of
ore. No estimate of ore reserves is pub-
lished this half: six months ago the manager
reckoned he had 34 million tons. At 13s.
per ton there would be £2,275,000 in that
lot. (There are 200,000 shares in the co.)
It is true that the metal markets have
been booming during the last couple of years
of war. But as against that note that this
calculation is based on dividends paid, and
whereas profits in the past two years have
amounted to £879,519, only £450,000 has
been divided. The ore treated during the
past year was 279,700 tons, and at that rate
there is about 12 years’ supply proved in the
mine above the 1270 ft. level. There is a
level at 1370 ft.; but so far the ore has been
prospected only by the drill, and then only
in the northern section. As to the quality
of the ore in the deepest levels, take this
comparison of last half-year’s feed to the
mill: —
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
1170 ft. level .. 13.5 p.c. 7.10 z. 13.4 p.c.
1270 ft. level .. 13.8 „ 9.2 „ 13.5 „
Average of mine 13.7 „ 6.6 „ 13.3 „
On the metallurgical side the most interest-
ing feature of late has been the treatment of
slimes. From 18,387 tons 2482 tons of
leady concentrates were produced worth
61.9 p.c. lead and 49.40 z. silver, and bur-
dened with only 7.8 p.c. zinc—a higher-
grade concentrate (because much richer in
silver) than the mill produces from ore, and
the recoveries compare like this:
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
Ore mill .. 72.2 p.c. 51.0 p.c. 8.1 p.c.
Slime plant.. 80.2 „ . 86.2 „ 8.3 „
So far as the ore mill is concerned it is,
however, only fair to say that, to suit the
smelters, a higher-grade lead concentrate
than usual was produced last halt-year,
which meant a larger escape of metals into
the zinc tailings and the slimes. So far nothing
has been done on a commercial scale in
getting the zinc from the slimesbut ‘ satis-
factory progress has been made in overcom-
ing the difficulties, and when the outlet tor
zinc concentrates improves we shall be able
to start production.” Incidentally, W. J.
Mcßride, M.C., the co.’s chief metallurgist,
who laid the foundations for this slime
treatment, had a good deal to do with
another great mine lately. It blew
up Hill 60. He is an Adelaide grad-
uate, and one of the little group of Aus-
tralian-trained metallurgists who have done
more than the rest of the world in develop-
ing processes for treating lead-zinc sul-
phides.
Sydney Exchange Co. :
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £> £ £
June, 1909.. 1161 6 p.c.= 900 ■— 261 17,413
Dec., 1909.. 1464 6 „ ~ 900 564' 17,977
June, 1910.. 1792 6 „ ~ 900 1000 17,869
Dec., 1910.. 1740 6 „ „ 900 500 340 18,209
June, 1911.. 1316 6 „ „ 900 416 18,625
Dec., 1911.. 1028 6 „ „ 900 128 18,753
June, 1912.. 1242 6 „ „ 900 250 92 18,845
Dec., 1912.. 1854 6 ~ „ 900 250 704 19,549
June, 1913.. 602 6 „ „ 900 250 19,001
Dec., 1913.. 2047 6 „ ~ 900 750 397 19,398
June, 1914.. 1187 6 „ „ 900 287 19,685
Unexplained additions to Reserves 3033 22,718
Dec., 1914.. 1592 6 p.c.= 900 300 392 23,110
June, 1915.. 961 6 „ „ 900 61 23,171
Dec., 1915.. 1731 6 „ „ 900 831 24,002
June, 1916.. 944 6 „ „ 900 150 23,896
Dec., 1916.. 1655 6 „ „ 900 9000 15,651
June, 1917.. 1181 6 „ „ 900 5200 10,732
Twelve months ago the Exchange Buildings
were in the balance-sheet at £69,000, nothing
of consequence having been written off for
many years. They have now been reduced
to £55,000. Other assets, mostly liquid,
total £2884, less current dividend. The
share capital is £30,000, and the debenture
debt £15,000. The property with the hand-
some front and the fine position gives solid
security for the capital; and possibly if it
were handled with a single eye to revenue
it could be better employed. But it serves
to some extent a public purpose ; hence the
comparatively poor return —for the past
three years only a shade over p.c. on the
capital and reserves even as now written
down. The institution is a sort of commer-
cial club without the whisky and cigars, and
the shareholders are apparently satisfied to
get 6 p.c. or so on their money. Anyway,
they have made no visible effort to do any
more during the past 15 years.
Coal, Ltd., holding a big block of coal
land behind the best of the N.S.W. South
Coast group, has tossed out the United
States Finance Corporation. This combina-
tion wanted a 6 p.c. preference on all Ameri-
can shares for 10 years. This was agreed
to. Brother Jonathan, thinking he had putty
to mould, then put up the terms to 10 p.c.
preference for 10 years and £B2OO for what
he termed a publicity campaign. This settled
the deal so far as he was concerned, and
with Wall-street shunted the co. turns to
J. Bull for cash. An influential shipping
co. representing British capital in Australia
is the negotiator. It hasn’t much time to
waste, as labor conditions operate after
November.
The B. 11. Prop. Co.’s Is. is paid on
1.181.006 shares: SI 1.448 are held in
Europe, and a shilling on these takes
£40,572. Australia claims £18,477; Mel-
bourne gets £8383, Adelaide £8378, Sydney
£1263. B. Hill £179 and Port Pirie £166.
On a population basis Australia should pro-
duce 1,000,000 tons of pigdron per annum —
a ton to every five inhabitants. To manu-
facture that quantity the blast furnaces
would require to handle roughly 2,500,000
tons of ore and flux. Actually we are hand-
ling under 750,000 tons, of which the B. H.
Prop.’s lot is 100,000 tons a quarter. But
we shall not want one ton for every five
people until we have an enormous expansion
in secondary manufactures. For instance,
we should have to manufacture all the gal-
vanised-iron we require. That item alone
costs £1,000.000 a year.
* * * *
Bathurst people are going to add another
to the five thousand or so attempts that have
been made to prove that there is an ore
channel connecting the Broken Hill and
Pinnacles lodes. Between these two out-
standing features there is plain with occa-
sional lumps of rock protruding, and at
some time or other almost every protrusion
has been represented as the outcrop of the
functioning lode —the two points are six or
seven miles apart. Some day the lode may
be worked profitably south of the Zinc Cor-
poration’s Block 5, but so far the scores of
cos. which have spawned on the “White
Leads plain,” as it used to be called, have
got no serious encouragement. For that
matter, the Pinnacles itself has merely been
a sink for money. The new concern calls
itself the Caledonia, and the owners get
10.0(X) fully-paids in a 25,000 co., of which
7000 are reserved. If there is anything to
be found it wouldn’t be much use looking for
it with less than £50,000.
Edna Deeps has made more commotion in
the Exchanges of four capitals than any
stock within thedast four or five years. One
Perth and several Adelaide spec.-sellers were
hard hit; and last week Sydney 'Change went
into mourning over a casualty of its own.
That will further strengthen the market, of
course; for there will have to be the usual
buying-in.
* * * *
Few mines in Westralia have shown such
a sudden reversal of form as Edna May
Deeps. At the 4Soft. level a limited patch
of good ore was located; also a huge granite
bar. At this point all the glories of the
Edna May reef had apparently departed, and
it looked any odds on that the 560 ft. level
would be practically valueless. But actually
the 560 ft. level has opened up in a way that
compares very favorably with the best of
Edna May levels. Also, the reef is in some
measure making back south-west, and this is
all in favor of Deeps. Hitherto Deeps man-
agement has not been over-diffident with
official reports, but since locating the good
developments the sudden modesty assumed
has been a pitfall for the bears. Amalgam
is being piled up, and everything now looks
prosperous for Deeps, which, by the way,
was once offered to the Edna May Co. for
£BOOO. Westralian mining has not had such
a turn-up for a long time.
Edna Central got the South reef at No.
4 level about 160 ft. from the shaft. As in
the Deeps the first cut wasn’t much; but
that was not to be wondered at seeing how
things went at No. 3. The best stone lies
to the south-west, and manager Giblin is off
on the hunt thither. Perth is a bit “bully”
over things at the Central, probably because
folk there regard Giblin as a very safe man.
Possibly, too, they think Collins-street won’t
lose the chance to shove up prices if a few
good assays go along. Out east the values
of the stone dipping from the Consolidated
into No. 3 level are shading off. This part
of the mine isn’t being half so closely watched
as the South reef, for people haven’t reckoned
on the Consolidated strike as much chop.
Commodore, Meekatharra (W.A.), is back-
ing Kearns’s Macquarrie lease to give it a
lift. It is a hard go. The price paid
was £lOOO cash and 5000 paid-up shares.
Seeing that the co. got one-half, of the claim
not long since for under £5OO, Kearns makes
a good bargain. As old Commodore slimes
didn’t pan out profits, the co. had to call up
cash to pay off the vendor and make up
the shortage between gold won and working
costs. Hence the balance-sheet just out
doesn’t fill the Board-room with enthusiasm.
The new manager, Bell, looks on the
Macquarrie as a low-grade proposition
which may improve at depth. This is the
old story ; but with the Edna Deeps incident
so recent, nobody is prepared to say him nay.
Bell’s strong point is the development at
Nos. 1 and 2 winzes, where nice quartz is
showing. Still, yields on the Macquarrie
haven’t bulked up to samples.
* * * *
Owing to labor shortage last year, Great
Boulder (W.A.) could not keep its mill
fully supplied with ore. That, coupled with
the high price of stores, meant greatly in-
creased costs. Working profit dropped
nearly £52,000 (to £267,000), and to pay
the usual 3s. div. the co. had to tap its re-
serve fund to the extent of £lO,OOO. Ore
reserves are again less than before, showing
a decline of 54,900 tons in quantity and
£130,000 in value compared with the 1915
estimate. The reserves place the mine about
2i years ahead of the plant; and while an
appreciable portion of the tonnage milled
during the current year will no doubt be
replaced by fresh developments, there is no
disputing the fact that there is nothing to
look forward to in the bottom of the mine.
* * * *
Jack McDermott succeeds Bob Nicolson
in the management of the Ivanlioe (W.A.),
returning after an absence of about 10
years. Formerly he was underground man-
ager, but was induced to join 8., M. & Co.’s
staff and was sent to take charge of the Sons
of Gwalia. From there he went to London,
and after a short spell was sent out by
Govett and others to look after the Cam and
Motor gold-mine in Rhodesia. He has the
reputation of being one of Australia’s best
underground men.
* * * *
Last year was described by chairman
Richards at the Sons of Gwalia meeting as
one of continual anxiety. Shortage of labor,
higher wages and much larger outlay on
supplies had considerably affected opera-
tions and profits. Still, returns were satis-
factory, dividends were being maintained,
and in the bottom of the mine at 3529 ft. on
the underlay there was every sign of con-
tinuity. In regard to the co.’s American
interests, Richards said that the Montezuma
mine (California), in which the co. had sunk
some money, had not come up to expecta-
tions and had been abandoned. The Ply-
mouth Consolidated, in which the co. had a
considerable interest, was doing well and
was likely to be a permanent payer.
* * * *
Who was it let out the secret of the exist-
ence of 2oz. dirt off No. 9 rise at the Langi
South, Ararat (Vic.) ? Shares jumped on
the news; but that doesn’t prove that the
Langi South is no longer a stringer. Even
though 3000 fathoms from it have averaged
an ounce, what is the record? The outgo to
March 31 was £90,411, of which £69,000
came from calls, £11.700 from cash put to
the credit of the co. and only £7360 from
gold. This is since 1910, when the Cath-
cart boom gave the co. a chance to flutter
into life. To do only 3000 fathoms in seven
years’ existence is even worse than the record
of the poor old Spring Hill Lends. What
recent truck-loads from the No. 9 rise of
the Langi South go to prove is just what the
old bores showed in 1915: that in a big
gutter (100 ft. wide like the Langi there arc-
runs of gold of good grade. Yet a truck-
load or two from these do not establish that
the runs are continuous or wide. If they did
extraction wouldn’t have had to stop to allow
more ground to be proved.
This is something like mining. During
.Tune the mostly Sydney-owned Kampong
Kamunting’s two dredges won 86.80 tons
black tin, which realised £10,318. Working
costs were £2034, or 2.8 d. per yard.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page SI/.)


PRACTICAL PRESCRIPTION
AGAINST STOMACH ACIDITY.
BY A SPECIALIST.
“Nine-tenths of all cases of stomach
trouble nowadays,” says a leading special-
ist. “are caused by too much acid. In the
beginning the stomach itself is not diseased,
but if this acid condition is allowed to con-
tinue, the acid is very likely to eat into the
stomach walls and produce stomach ulcer,
which may render a radical surgical opera-
tion necessary, even to prolong life. There-
for an ‘acid stomach’ is l-eally a dangerous
condition and should be treated seriously.
It is utterly useless to take pepsin and or-
dinary stomach tablets. The excess acid
must be neutralised by ‘the administration
of an efficient antacid. -For this purpose
physicians nearly always recommend taking
half a teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia
in a little water after each meal. Large
quantities may be used, if necessary, as it
is absolutely harmless. But be sure to get
the bisurated magnesia, as other forms of
magnesia have not the same action in the
stomach as the bisurated, and frequently
do more harm than good.”— Advt.
9061
SJIMIT)
CMPM
NE PLUS DLTRfI
I
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
DANCE
ALBUM
CONTAINS:
THE SECRET” —Waltz Hampton Wood
FAIR ITALY” Varsovianna G. Fetras
FLASH JACK” Polka J. Rolfe
LOVE’S MESSAGE Waltz G. Kingsley
PHANTOM BRIGADE” One Step Clark
FORTY WINKS Schottische A. Jones
BRAVE WARRIORS’’March H. Kendall
WHISTLING JIM” Dance Characteristic
Harold Lindsay
SUNNY AUSTRALIA” Waltz T. Andrews
GLORIOUS VICTORY” Two-Step
S. Wall ace
VERDI WALTZ” Waltz A. Williams
SONGS OF ANZAC” Lancers A. Adam
Sold by all Music Sellers.
Price, 1/3; posted, 1/5
Violin Part, 1/3; Cornet Part, 1/3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <&. CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (SL CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
%£■&?*%£&■ "-^\skv
S.B.
COME UP TO
the sunshine
SEASON
&*rron falls Barr-on Gorge
the wonderful hmterland
Junshine , Palm Trees . V
Iroptcal Flowers. A
season of soft
and scenic splendour
A Book let telling all abou.t il
15 yours for tke asking
fi'ff in this coupon.'-
SV&fne
Adc/res J _
Mo Dtr&cfoK o/
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane, OUEENSLAND-
sunns,
m
2&Z2
m
m
A WOMNA'S
LETTER
Sydney, August 27, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
Rose Hall got a big influx of Maorilanders
last week. They’re just-returned men who
are waiting here, as guests of the Red Cross,
till the laid-up steamers get a move on
for the Dominion. Matron Fox and her
volunteers —the Paddington V.A.D.’s are
having their turn now —made up 18 extra
beds on a roomy balcony to meet the rush.
Sergeant Judd, of the Mounted Rifles, is one
of the most amazed men who came back —
amazed to find a strike flourishing with ban-
ners, bands and processions. “We could
hardly believe it,” he says, “for there are
two or three of us who have been nearly
three years at the Front —I left Auckland
in October, 1914. If these strikers could
only see what we’ve seen of the enemy’s
treatment of women and children, they’d—
well, I suppose they can’t realise what this
war means!” Sergeant Pepper, another
M.L. veteran, can only look across the open
space between Rose Hall and the Domain
and listen to the strikers’ band as a man in
a dream, who sees the industrial Nero
ghosts fiddling while the world blazes.
When the news from the Western Front
slackens the London cable correspondent
makes another guess at our next Governor.
The last ticket he took was on Arthur Steel-
Maitland —with three or four other Chris-
tian names in between. He is Parliamen-
tary Under-Sec. for the Colonies, and comes
of military people on both sides. Dad’s
name was Steel: the son became Maitland
when he married into the baronet Maitland
family. At Oxford he mixed classics and
rowing, and is still at 40 something of an
athlete. Except that he has ever so much
more experience of men—and women —he
would probably remind us more of the book-
ish Beauchamp than any other Governor
we’ve had.
A pai’ty of journalists who did Jenolan
Caves early this year had as companion in
toiling up and down the new Orient grottoes
the gentle Edmund Milne, just dead. He
looked a very sick man then, and after
attacking 1400-odd steps had very little
breath to spare. But with that he had he
pointed out “the wonders of the Lord,” and
quoted extensively from the Book, which he
could have followed up with a batch of
Psalms but for the distressing cough that
had to be noticed.
A.-D.-C. d’Apice has got the right answer
from Dorothy Maher, younger daughter of
the late Dr. Odillo Maher, of this hamlet.
A sister is the youthful widow of Dr. Roger
Hughes, who was killed in France some
months ago.
When W. A. Windeyer’s idea of an un-
fenced street-garden at Hunter’s Hill took
root and sprouted, he found that unofficial
gardeners were getting busy. Invisible
fingers picked the first blooms, and small
feet left their prints on the soil that was
to rear flowers for the War Chest. So he
got the weight of local juvenile opinion on
his side, distributed tools here and there, and
had a swarm of hon. gardeners aflame to
catch the culprit who might be led astray by
nodding sweet peas. Result, a handsome
hedge of blossoms, and everything in knicker-
bockers a special constable-in-charge.
Captain Jack Chisholm and his bride are
back from Egypt. She was Madge Giles,
a daughter of the Sydney Grammar School
dominie.
Sydney girls remember Gerry Cooper as
a first-rate accompanist and keen amateur
musician; also as a pleasant young man for
tea-parties. Now he is doing something
more useful, and has been doing it so well
as a lieutenant in the Scots’ Guards that
he has won the Military Cross. He is the
younger son of Willie Cooper, Bart., one of
this hamlet’s big propputy owners. There’s
an elder brother in the same Big Fight.
There will be no difficulty about a pass-
port for Miss Soubeiran, who goes to France
to see that the splendid results of France’s
Day fall into the right hands. Founder
of the French League in Sydney, this ardent
patriot has been exceptionally lucky in her
co-workers. But the hive in Macdonell
House is a monument no less to the tenacity
of the Australian kiddy, whose nimble
fingers have stitched many thousands of
little garments for baby Francois.
Sergeant Sinclair, now on the Vic. State
War Council, crossed the Murray last week.
He is the expert in tweeds who has intro-
duced the hand-loom to disabled Billjim.
Tall and blue-eyed, with a son at the Front,
the Scot is a keen business man, who years
ago blew into Invercargill-—the M.L. town
where everyone clings to a Tam o’ Shanter
nine months out of 12—from Caithness,
N.B. For the last 10 winters he has been
a Victorian. “When I began to talk about
hand-woven tweeds as an industry for dis-
abled soldiers,” he says, “there was no
enthusiasm. It seemed to strike cold. But
I hammered on, and got the chance to stand
or fall by an exhibit at the A.N.A. show
some months back. That satisfied the
authorities that there was money in the
scheme. * King George got the first suit.
The Governor-General had to wait for his
tweeds, but he is wearing them now.” The
Red Cross mothers the new industry in Syd-
ney, and the work will be in full hum in a
few weeks in Lawson House. Disabled
soldiers unlit for outdoor jobs can, Sergt. Sin-
clair claims, earn anything up to 12s. a day
of six hours at the loom. Samples of the
fine hand-woven goods are on view in Challis
House.
Jean, the nice-looking daughter of the
Bob Andersons, lost her fiance, J. C. Wright,
four days before her parents left Loudon.
She remains there with friends, and has
plunged still deeper into war-work to dull
the shock. Anderson, knighted for his work
as business organiser at Headquarters, lifts
his hat if you mention the military nurses
on the wrecked P. and O. Mongolia. They
were Sisters Manson, Despard and Foote,
returning to Australia on leave. “A perfect
godsend to everyone,” he says, “for the beach
was quite unsheltered but for a sail which
they tried to rig up over the sick.” Mr.
Winchcombe, the N. S. Wales M.L.C., with
double pneumonia, was brave and cheerful.
“They tell me I haven’t a hope,” he whis-
pered, “but I think I’ll beat them yet.”
A Bangalow farmer, C. W. Reading, hap-
pened to be in Belgium when the Mad Dog
broke loose. He joined the Belgian army
as a private, rose step by step, was deco-
rated for his gallantry in action, and,
severely wounded at last, was invalided to
Australia in the Mongolia. When the ex-
plosion came he tried to save the wounded
leg, but, falling, broke both limbs. “Amaz-
ing fortitude!” says a fellow passenger. “He
just gritted his teeth and tried to joke in
his torment.”
In the Mitchell Library is the first
attempt, so far as history knows, to make
the emu and kangaroo the heraldic symbol
of Australia. Painted on satin in 1806, by
women of the Bowman family, who were
early settlers on the Hawkesbury, it shows
the Bird and Beast on either side of the
Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, supported by a
shield. The art is crude, but the faded
colors, with the word “Unity” on top, still
grip the passer-by. This ancient flag was
designed for a Hawkesbury festival soon
after the news of the Battle of Trafalgar
had slowly worked its way to Sydney Cove.
When this troubled
planet ceases to boil,
Marie Narelle will
probably make a
tour of Australia.
The handsome singer
took her profes-
sional name from
Narellan, the little
N. S. Wales town
where she grew into
splendid woman-
hood. Like her
cousin, Eva Mylott,
at whose wedding-
party in New York
Marie was recently
hostess, she is built
on sumptuous lines.
And there’s a nature
sweet as honey un-
der the creamy skin. Music flows like run-
ning water through the family; daughter
Kathleen w r on a Royal Academy scholarship
a while ago. Marie’s second matrimonial
venture has been a success, and electrical-
engineer Currie considers himself a lucky
American. Yet with a beautiful summer home
on Long Island and most of the good things
of life, there’s something else she’s craving
for —a glimpse of Australia. Here is her
latest photo from New York.
Lieut. Bruce Hardy Arnott, a veteran at
21, with the Croix de Guerre to his credit,
adds another name to the toll of war. His
father, a lieu t.-colonel, is fighting in France,
where the lad has just been killed. His
brave mother, described as one of the
heroines of the lost Mongolia, who helped
and cheered others in the confusion of the
tragedy, recently returned to Sydney.
Melba comes overland on September 3, and
the Veterans’ Home concert is off till she
returns from the U.S.A.
Lionel' Lawson and fiddler Roberts, of the
Criterion orchestra, join the Richmond
Aviation School this week.
The journalists who belong to tlie-ah
“Institute” as distinguished from the sordid
Association fed Cyril Maude at Farmer’s one
day last week. They found a pleasant, dap-
per little man with a frank admiration tor
Cyril Maude —an attitude which gives an
almost infantile candor to his cheery prattle.
But he was half an hour late. Busy at a
meeting in connection with the Actors’ Asso-
ciation matinee, he forgot the time; and he
“expected to be fetched.” While the com-
pany was wondering how the strike cuisine
was standing the strain of a long stage-wait
a hurried pilgrim burst in, explained the
tragedy, and entreated the pressmen not to
let the chop get any colder.
About 10 years
ago Dorothy Wilson
(now Mrs. Wardill,
of Melbourne) sug-
gested to her friend
Ada Newman that
it might be possible
to found an Arts
and Crafts Society.
Mrs. Danvers Power
became the president
of the brand-new
association, and it is
still, in spite of the
war, an active con-
cern, with head-
quarters in Penfold’s
Building. Of the
founders, Ada New-
man, previously de-
voted to water-colors,
is in these days one of Sydney’s leading
china-painters, and some of her work graces
the National Gallery. Specialising in Aus-
tralian flora, she has for years rifled the
bush for the brilliant bursts of color that
make a sunset out of the young tips of the
gum-trees. These glowing tints she pre-
serves on delicate white and biscuit back-
grounds. She bakes with care —always
twice and sometimes four times; for the
firing’s the thing. There is a peep-hole in
her kiln, where you smell the temperature.
But it takes experience to sniff the air and
tell whether it suits the bush flower: some
like it as they get it in a heat wave at
Bourke; others faint if there’s more than a
w 7 arm glow—sunshine on ice, as Nature
serves it up in 'a Leura valley. Here is
Judith Fletcher’s picture of the good Aus-
tralian artist.
“Grumpy’s” best yarn was really against
himself. “She was a charming young Ameri-
can lady interviewer, but I noticed that she
was particularly keen about my pedigree. So
I said: ‘Er —you seem very interested in my
family. Are you—er—of particularly ancient
lineage yourself?’ ‘Why—yes—that’s so !’
she replied. ‘I come from Napoleon on one
side and Sir Joshua Reynolds on the other.’ ”
If ever a smart young woman pulled the silk
sock of an actor that U.S.A. damsel did.
Cyril Maude’s press-agents have plastered
both sides of the equator with the names of
his distinguished friends and relatives, and
Miss Starry Stripes met the situation nobly.
Lieut. Langlois Lefroy (British Army
Service Corps), son of Westralian Premier
H. B. Lefroy, has gained the Military Cross.
His pre-war occupation was raising sheep on
a vast run near Cue.
The next exhibition of Mrs. Ellis Rowan’s
water-colors should be rich in pictures
painted in New Guinea. She is at work on
flower-studies as far afield as the Bismarck
Mountains, where her hut is almost along-
side a volcanic crater owned by a herd of
cannibals. The latter, however, have
assured her of their goodwill and the balance
of power is steadied with tobacco. The
little Victorian artist’s only fear is that her
supply of paint will be exhausted before she
is ready to leave.
Almost anything can be an “outrage”
now. N. S. Wales Director of Education
Board lately issued a mild memorandum to
teachers asking them to allow pupils to col-
lect bottles for the Voluntary War Workers
and store them at the schools. Then up
rose a newspaper correspondent named
“Old Rags Next,” and a scornful laugh
laughed he. “This is one of the most
ghastly outrages ever inflicted on the public-
school teachers,” howled “Old Rags Next,”
and, swallowing his cane, expired in great
agony, but with the dignity befitting one
of the Old School.
The war has many coincidences, but this
one is near home. On July 24, 1915,
Lieut. Harry Robson, of Ballina, on the
North Coast, was killed at Gallipoli.
Exactly 12 months later his brother, Walter,
was killed in France.
In between strafing the Hun on the French
Front “Ted” Norrie, Lieut.-Colonel, late of
New Guinea and Gallipoli, and son of the
late solicitor Norrie, of Rose Bay, has found
time to slip a diamond circlet on the finger
of Bee White, once of Melbourne, now of
London, whose father is a P and 0. manager
m the much-bombed hamlet. The gro( f
elect has just received a mention in
patches, and the future Mrs. Nome ft
wedding's in September) has been dmvf
V.A.D. work at Beckenham since the
noise began. s
There’s to be a bumper concert for the
54th and 55th Heavy Artillery Comforts
Fund on September 19 in the King’s Hall
Crossed over the Great Divide last week
at 93, Mrs. A. Hinton, of Mosman, mother
of Howard, well known in philanthropic
circles, and Muriel, who does a bit with he r
pen. Mrs. Hinton was a daughter of Gen
eral Muriel, who commanded in India about
the time Victoria took up the sceptre and
commenced her virtuous reign. Up till the
last the old lady, who was strong in Christian
Science beliefs, climbed the Mosman hills
with the agility of the best strike-time
walker, never halting by the way.
The Actors’ Association will hand its
benevolent fund the fat harvest it hopes to
garner from a big matinee on September 4
Best seats are going for a guinea each.
Nell Black, with a sister and brother—
they belong to a musical family—was
lunched by the Voluntary Workers’ Cafg
committee the other noon. They have been
the Cafd’s voluntary fiddlers at meal-time
and now move off on a professional tour.
Walking up Wynyard-street, on the left-
hand side you’ll come on an alert-looking
establishment with the sign of the Red Cross
and making urgent appeal for wounded boys
struggling through a winter of suffering and
uncertainty; boys whose sturdy limbs the
German shell has shattered, or turned into
darkness the once keen sight. In this
anxious-to-please little shop that holds out
eager hands for your shillings and pence is
the most fascinating array of basket-ware—
tall and short, round and slim, all waiting
for a mistress. Wouldn’t you love a work-
basket woven in your boy’s battalion colors?
Carved trays and tables and caskets and' toys
—real Australian kangaroos and bears; and
whole families of rabbits—Mother and
Father, Peter and Baby. Peter Rabbit
rattles. A rocking-chair with two carved
’iroos on its sides to set the pace holds a
world of joy for some lucky youngster this
Christmas. Oh, there are a hundred things
to tell you about, but go and see for your-
self the leather handbags, and the bead
necklaces woven in tints of blue and copper,
pink and lavender, lilac and gold, and you’ll
then know that the depot holds a fit present
for every 7 member of the family on every
occasion. Christmas is drawing close.
All the latest theatrical male-arrivals
wear the top-coat with a waist and a skirt
that belonged to the Englishman of Du
Maurier’s day. It suggests (I don’t) cor-
sets.
There’s a new 7 use for the black sheep.
The back-country war-sock maker knew
that there’s usually one or two dark-com-
plexioned woollies in every flock, but gener-
ally not enough to make up even a bag of
fleece. That was the girl’s chance. Ac-
quiring a spinning-wheel she begs the black
sheep’s w r ool, and has the stuff ready dyed.
That’s the basis of many a sock knitted in
the tiniest country schools. Mostly it’s the
school-miss who does both the begging and
the spinning. Dear, mostly-forgotten little
school-miss! None of the excitements of
Australia Day or France’s Day come to her.
But as the wdieel flies round she is spinning
something more than wool: there’s a web
being w r oven round many a bush-mother’s
heart. And —well, perhaps round Bill-
jitn’s, too.
Yours affectionately,
VAN DORIAN.


G.E. 3-Phase SKELETON FRAME
INDUCTION MOTOR
Foi Heavy Duty
m
■
1
I
4
m
m
ill
1
1
/
SIZES .. ... 20 to 200 H.P,
VOLTAGES... 415
S& NEW FREEDOM.
FROM POWER TROUBLES
Let “G.E. Electric Motors do -your work.
STARTING COMPENSATOR
fitted with no voltage and overload relays
for Squirrel Cage Induction Motors
All relays are
furnished
with enclos-
ing covers
Overload
relays give
effective pro-
tection against
effect of
overload
i HI
Heavy covers
afford ample
protection to
internal parts
No-voltage
release
Coil heavily
protected
Operating
lever Off"
“Starting"
and
“Ruftping"
Oil tanks
removable for
inspection,
renewal of
oil. etc.
tm
Heavy
wiping positive
contacts for oil
immersion
Observe the
sturdy con-
struction of
all switch
parts
READ THE SCORE
OF ADVANTAGES POSSESSED BY
G.E. SKELETON
FRAME MOTORS
Extreme Simplicity
Great Overload Capacity
Internal Ventilation
High Commercial Efficiency
All Parts Interchangeable
Special Insulating Features
Low Heating
Efficient Starting Accessories
Heavy Shafts & End Shields
EWtWI Bfl IM il 01 W Wli fgglitf^i
fc^f*±~S.^^^^==^23
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, G? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS:
(Q ): The Engineer...* Supply Co. of Australia (E S.C.A.).
- «Yrn»»r*Md..
XssLi'iK'<sJ‘'* "■b*"*”” * ,0 “ c “ rrle s, "“-
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical * Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington,
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver
and Oliver, MacQuarie Street. Hobart.


Sole R&Mh
try
"Australia
THE “GLENSTER”
THE HAT OF DISTINCTION.
Exclusively-dressed women know exactly how high
the name of “Glenster” stands for Hats of distinc-
tion. Great indeed is our pleasure in announcing
that we have the Sole Agency in Australia
for the “Glenster” Hats. The present collection
embraces some exquisite straw tailor shapes. Each
entirely differs from its neighbor; each, the con-
ception of an artist for perfection of line; each a
study in simplicity and rarity of coloring. It is
fitting, therefore, that Sydney’s House of Distinction
should introduce the “Glenster” to distinctive
dressers.
Farmer's,
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets,
Sydney
(hfojj
in
XT:
VAeltonian
I ▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
JSPE£IALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD ,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne, a
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
BUCKLEYS
RIDING BREECHES
FAMOUS
for All-round Excellence
Specially Constructed
for
HARD WEAR
83081.
B3oBl.— Riding Breeches, made in
England, of saddle-tweeds ..
With leather strappings.... 32/6
Khaki drill breeches 17/6
LEGGINGS.
83052,
B3oB2.—Puttee Leg-
gings, in solid hide,
seamless, blocked to
shape, fastening with
spiral strap
B3oB3.—Grafton Leg-
gings, in tan solid
leather, blocked to shape,
without seam, fastening
in front with steel
spring
83083.
Men’s Tweed Trousers, for Station
and Farm, 12/6 and 15/6.
All-wool Saddle-tweeds, 27/6.
The necessary particulars for ordering
by mail are height and waist
measurements.
BUCKLEY & NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURSE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOVRNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, August 27, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Rear-Admiral Cresswell, first professional
member of the Naval Board, is mourning the
loss of one of his three boys—Sub.-lieut.
Colin, of the Royal Navy, killed in action on
August 20. Schooled at Brisbane. Melbourne
and Osborne (Isle of Wight), the boy was
with the Minotaur on the China station until
he joined the Australia, going thence to the
North Sea submarine service. Lieut.
Edmund Creswell, of the Engineers, is being-
invalided from France, wounded. The eldest
son. Captain Randolph W., won the Serbian
Order of the White Eagle while with the
Camel Corps, and was mentioned in Sir
Archibald Murray’s dispatches. A Melbourne
Grammar boy, he is still 27 years young.
A Ballarat Anzac, Lieut. Harold Wanliss,
who got to France from Gallipoli, has been
mentioned again in dispatches after winning
the D.S.O. The young officer is nephew of
Colonel Wanliss and also of Iceberg Irvine’s
dame.
Jack, son of Admiral Bridges, has been
winged in France, and had a whiff of gas as
well. Mother and Sissie are handy in
London. Sissie was one of the first V.A.D.
triers at Melbourne Hospital, and is now
helping at the Anzac Buffet.
Captain Alan Currie, chairman of the
V.A.T.C. before he gave up sport for war.
has got the Military Cross. One of the Field
Artillery, he was severely wounded while
doing some big thing.
Syd Dalrymple, a jolly Toorak boy with
rich parents, has come a cropper while flying,
and mother is busy using the cable. Syd
was made a flight-commander in the R.F.C.
about the time that his pal, Gordon Ross
Soden, was wounded in France while test-
ing new aircraft guns.
Walbundrie, the Kiddle station near
Albury, has been bought by the Government
for repatriation purposes. When William
Kiddle died, he left Walbundrie to son
Geoffrey and daughter Rita. Geoffrey was
killed recently and Rita, the last of the
family, has just arrived from England and
is proudly introducing her invalided soldier
turned.
Melba visited the Point Cook aviation
school last week and gaily accepted an invi-
tation to go up where the rival lark sings.
When she got back to earth she was as
pleased as a flapper after her first dance.
Her pal, the dimpled little Lady Susan, was
also taken aloft by one of the aviators.
The Rajah and his missus Avere well estab-
lished at Menzies’. But on Wattle Day the
loungers at the Oriental were entertained by
the sudden arrival of a mountain of luggage,
a valet and an angry-looking Rajah. The
new guest registered, and then everything
was swallowed by the lift. “Whatever is
the matter?” yawned the loungers like weary
alligators, and immediately subsided Avithout
trying to answer their OAvn query.
The ShadoAV tAvo-step at Melba’s farewell
frivol to the Best People was a ripping
success. It is not a novelty in humbler
circles, having been a popular item at roller-
skating carnivals in pre-war days, when the
Avowser Avowsed heavily at it, but it has
only just moved up. In loAvly circles it is
termed “The Spooning Whirl.”
From a man friend Avho takes such things
very seriously:—
Architect Frank Stapley has suddenly come into
the limelight as the man who will probably snatch
the city rabbit-skins from David Hennessy on Octo-
ber 9. A majority of councillors want a change,
and this time, it is said, there is to be no mistake.
AVeedon and Cabena have both been mentioned ; but
during the past week or two matters have been
earnestly talked over by councillors, with the result
that Stapley’s supporters definitely declare that their
man will be at least one vote ahead of Hennessy
when the numbers go up, while any other candidates
Avill be fighting it out for third place in the blue
distance. Stapley is more genial and less ponderous
than Hennessy. Mrs. Stapley is a patron o f the
arts, musically inclined, and a practical dame of
sound common-sense.
Coombe Cottage, Lilydale, Avas turned out
by Melba the other night to give some Bill-
jims a party. The singer called up dancers
from Point Cook, Maribyrnong and Broad-
meadows, imported Di Gilio, the music-
maker, and asked a bunch of pretty Avomen,
including Lady Susan, Doris BlackAA’ood, the
tAVO upstanding Willie Clarke girls, Mrs.
George Armstrong, Everard BroAvne’s girleen
Gwynneth, and Mrs. Kerr-Pearse. The
hostess wore a moonlight-blue frock, and saAV
that everyone had a good time. Just before
dawn the sleepy hamlets of Lilydale and
Ringwood were roused from their rustic
slumbers by a whirring cavalcade of town-
returning guests and cheery soldiers singing
camp songs.
The Hon. Clement Charles Molesworth,
son of the present Viscount, has been killed
in action. Our own Charles Molesworth,
who used to grow wool in the Western Dis-
trict, is now direct heir to the title. He was
uncle to the dead soldier.
Melba and her daughter-in-law have been
staying at Federal Government House
with the G.-G. and Lady Helen. Mrs.
Armstrong came to town because her husband
the wharf-laborer was too weary to get back
to Coombe Cottage after his day’s work.
Incidentally, when George registered at the
National Service Bureau and put a hook
in his belt, the excitable girl pupils at the
Con. got almost hysterical with admiration.
One small fair Toorakese damsel, who culti-
vates a tiny voice, and whose papa has
money to roll in, wanted to volunteer straight
away as a coal-lumper. Her big contralto
pal considered the job of a tally-clerk would
do her. A couple of mezzo-soprani reckoned
they would prefer to take lessons in winch-
driving.
As soon as Adela Pankhurst was released
on bail, she rushed about holding open-air
meetings. The police moved her on, and
Spring-street had various visions of Adela
carrying her toy platform (a stool) and
streaking for a new point of vantage with
a large, rag-tag army at her heels. As
I watched her from afar, I was in some
way reminded of a harassed cat lugging a
helpless kitten from one refuge to another.
Ivo Whitton, who dropped his champion
golf clubs for the rifle, is to marry a daugh-
ter of the Curries of Derrinallum.
Adelaide’s enclosure: —
After an outburst of summer that frayed our tem-
pers the weather relapsed into winter with an
emphasis that flung snow along- the hilltops from
Mount Gambier to Petersburg. Heavy seas on the
coast removed a little more of the Glenelg break-
water and added to the damage that the previous
storm had done to jetties.
Returning transports loosed a stream of returned
Billjims, wounded or recuperating, but none the less
cheerful. They were taken by motors in enthusiastic
loads to the violet farms and through the hills. Most
of them had started back home from the Somme, and
not one of them had a shadow of doubt as to the
respective merits of Europe and Australia.
Bishop Wilson, who has been warning the heathen
at St. Andrew’s, Walkerville, since he resigned from
Melanesia, is to leave us at the end of the year to
bish. at Bunbury. He was a keen cricketer in his
pre-button-up-the-baek days, and once gave an Aus-
tralian Eleven some unpleasant leather-chasing when
lie was playing for Kent.
The S. O. Smiths, whose son has for months been
“missing,” have been officially notified that he was
killed in France in early November. His father is
one of the Yalumba Smith clan.
D. 0. Scott, of Itapunda, has been added to our
list of S.M.’s. He is to have either Port Pirie or
Mount Gambier. He is a son of the late W. D.
Scott, who for a good many years was Master of the
Supreme Court.
The crowning of Mrs. Kidman as Kapunda’s Aus-
tralia Day Queen took Lady Galway to that town
on Wednesday. She was the guest of the H. H.
Duttons, at Anlaby. Her Ex.’s appeal for funds for
prisoners of war is bringing in a good many sub-
scriptions. On Friday a “Bon Marche,” organised
by the Mayoress’s Red Cross Guild in the Town Hall,
added about £250.
About the same time J. M. Richman gave a block
of land at Prospect to be sold for war funds. It
was bought by F. W. Bullock for £6OO. Inciden-
tally the War Council has decided that the housing
of incapacitated or homeless returned soldiers is a
matter for the Federal or State Government, and
not the business of private bodies. Therefore, no
existing home is to extend its operations, nor are
any new ones to be started ; but the War Council’s
plans for the erection of a hostel are to be gone on
with.
Died at North Adelaide at the end of the week
R. de la Poer Beresford, whose father was private
secretary to Governor Mac Donnell and afterwards
Clerk of the Assembly. The widow is a daughter of
the late John Acraman.
The Moncrieffs’ handsome daughter, who left some
months ago for China and Japan, has said her
marriage vows to an American engineer named Ran-
dolph, who is keeping an eye on some railway con-
struction in China.
The trouble in our Returned Soldiers’ Association
came to a head last week, when a crowded meeting
was nearly unanimous in supporting A. E. Tait, the
secretary lately suspended, and in carrying a no-
confidence motion against the committee which sus-
pended him. Col. Weir and Blackburn, V.C., the
most prominent men so far in the R.S.A., then left,
and a mostly-fresh committee was appointed, on a
basis of “equality all round and no military distinc-
tions to be made.”
Resignations are flying as a result of a
row in the Malvern Red Cross. Some of
the Very Naicest put the blame of the whole
upset on to “those interfering men” who
have been exercising control where they are
not wanted. Not by the controlled ones,
anyhow.
Wattle Day was wet —a sad blow to the
hopes of the buttoners. However, a roaring
trade was done in trams, trains and cafes.
Mrs. de Bavay, just recovered from a severe
illness, had her motor snugly enclosed in
wattle branches, and made many sales in
C'ollins-street. Mrs. Michaelis and a bunch
of girls sold wattle from the Grand Hotel
steps and indulged in tea-parties indoors at
intervals. The other fashionable taverns
were tired this year, and had no shows. The
Overseas Club had a big cafef chantant in
the Independent Hall. Allan Wilkie and
Walter Hunt did the quarrel scene from
“Julius Caesar” in trousers. Lois sang (how
remarkably like Armes Beaumont he is in
his platform attitude!), Clifton Boanas
played, and Stella Power carolled.
The Foulidling Home Babies put out a
placard, “Babies At Home from Two till
Four,” and the Town Hall was rushed at a
shilling a head. The dumplings were care-
fully conveyed through the rain in fashion-
able' motors, and they and their nurses were
mobbed going and coming.
The undergrads are going to do their
whirling best for the Red Cross on Saturday,
September S, with a torchlight procession
from “the shop” to the Exhibition, where
they will incite citizens made sober by Time
to take part in a confetti battle and spend
their hard-earned on all sorts of vanities.
The Children’s Plain and Poster Ball in
aid of St. Vincent’s has been postponed
from September 5 to ditto 10.
There are still bright spots in strike-
stricken Melbourne. Melba looked in the
other morning at the National Service
Bureau, whence the wharves are being
staffed by volunteer workers, and offered to
do her bit. “I would be prepared to accept,
work at the wharf,” said she. “My son,
George Armstrong, is there already. More-
over,” she added, “I’ve a staff of 150 pupils
who are willing to enrol.” So we may yet
see Nellie sitting on the capstan-head of a
Norwegian timber-ship, setting the time for
a chanty.
The benefit given to poor, half-blind tenor
Lois was packed by the fashionable and the
rich. Balboni, whose concert dates com-
pletely hedged in the deserving Lois affair,
scored merely a handful of an audience in
spite of his great voice. The musical held
off indignantly because, so they said, Bal-
boni had based his programme, song for
song, on the well-advertised one sung by
Lois.
The doctors advise a difficult operation on
Lois’s eyes which may or may not stave off
blindness. The neat money results of the
benefit will come in very handy.
Millie Macaw’s concert (profits for the
trenches) was a flattering tribute to that
charming young songbird, the house being
crowded to the last seat. Millie, who is a
Melba pupil, wore a rich voice, a white
tulle-frock and an air of great assurance.
The programme was varied and unusual, and
included some dainty “Quality Street” tab-
leaux by Mrs. Oswald Syme and the Baillieu
children.
Melba caused a sensation with a surprise
song at her pupils’ concert last week. St.
Leger was billed to play Percy Grainger’s
“Colonial Song,” and half-way through the
Voice joined in from nowhere at all. The
listeners craned and twisted to see where
Melba was hidden, but couldn’t find her.
When she arrived at the concert she. was
conspicuous in a huge mantle of pale ivory
brocade etched in dark fur. She slipped out
of this and, in an unobtrusive black clingy
dress, dropped into a vacant chair between
two black-coated Governors. Sitting there
she sang, and the effect was electrical. St.
Leger had to bow repeatedly to the applause.
He came out time and again, grinning mod-
estly, until at last Melba gave him her hand
from below deck. In a storm of applause
she came on to the platform and sang again.
There was a great house. The G.-G. and
Lady Helen were there; also Governor
Stanley and his delicate little wife. Lady
Susan’s blue-snooded fair head showed among
the vice-regal bunch. Natalie Muir, the star
who won a Melba scholarship, trilled; and
Violet Coneannen, the little Westralian
brunette, scored heavily. This youngster
broke down some months ago, and Melba
petted her and packed her off home for a
holiday. The generous prescription acted
like magic. Peggy Centre, the coy little
Honolulu lady, had a turn; and Stella
Power got a great reception and the only
encore. She sang from behind a bouquet
of pink roses nearly as big as herself. Also
she was in blue, while all the other girls
but one wore white, with white shoes and
stockings (by command). The one was a
little American pupil, Marion Lloyd Jones,
who sang two eighteenth-century songs and
dressed in blue and white and powder to
match the period.
One of the natural outcomes of the war is
the National Service Girls’ Dramatic Co.
advertised to give a performance of “The
Rivals” at Melbourne Playhouse next
Friday, in aid of the War Council’s Ameli
oration Fund. The organising comnS£
is wholly feminine as far as the advt v
closes, and the performers will be whniit
ditto. Girls in the old-men parts •' 2 i r k
the young-men parts; girls everywhere-!
except in the scene-shifting and lighting
jobs, I suppose. A vaudeville co Tho
Who Stayed At Home, has been in evident
for months past, but the N.S.G.s’ Dramati
Co. is a new sign of the times.
Gregan McMahon denies that the
Club has “sunk at its moorings.” jt hT.
merely dung the. tea overboard—an until!
practice which stains an anchored shin’!
sides and is severely reprobated in the ifavv
Mardi Dillon, the bright girl who made
several appearances under Repertorv
Theatre auspices before she obtained an en
gagement with Cyril Maude, is now in a St
Kilda private hospital, with her collar-bone
in a sling, or whatever they put a broken
collar-bone in. While in Adelaide with the
Maude co. she had the bad luck to get on
familiar terms with a motor collision.
Dora Weigall, daughter of the doctor j»
doing her bit for the wounded soldiers. Sh P
wears a cheerful pink motor veil and a vast
motor coat, and occupies one day every week
driving convalescents into the country. Dora
can not only drive; she can put on the
blueys and tinker up a disabled car as well
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


mM- ,
JS&S
m
m
m
1
Copyright Watson’s A o. 10 Whisky.
I
i
V; !
%?l
Wcl£o<jt\
Y *l \
\
T\ [ o | f I
r gr«
fthitfl-
'fraJocm A fob'
/
m,
m
mm
m
mu
■Hi
'■
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Admiral Sir D. Beatty is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of M. Venizelos, Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir Douglas
Haig, Lieut.-General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson, General Foch, General
Cadorna. Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, Peter L, General Sarrail, General Brussiloff, General
Russky, will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or 12 penny (Commonwealth)
stamps/ As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
I AMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1863.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital (50,000 £lO Shares)
£1,500,000
500,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
Reserve Inability of Proprietors
£lOO,OOO
58,183
540,000
Total Capital and Reserves
£998,183
Directors:
WILLIAM DIXSON, Chairman.
Hon. Sir ALBERT J. GOULD, Iv.B.
Hon. THOS. WADDELL, M.L.C.
Auditors: JOHN WAUGH, T. B. FRITH.
Chief Inspector: WM. CLARKE.
Accountant: J. E. MACKINTOSH.
A. A. C. COCKS, M.L.A.
H. C. L. ANDERSON, M.A.
Acting General Manager: J. s. MARKS.
Secretary; R. T. MOODIE.
Solicitors: Messrs. LEIBIUS, BLACK & WAY
HEAD OFFICE: 160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Branches and Agencies in New South Wales. Agents in New Zealand and Fiii • The c „
Zealand: Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia: The National Bank of \ustS.
Queensland: The Queensland National Bank, Ltd. K ot Aus tidlasia Ltd.;
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Drafts drawn on and cable remittances made direct to Foreign Places.
negotiable throughout the world. Foreign Bills ' ’ ’
Francisco and New York in dollars or sterling.
foreign Places. Letters of Credit issued
otiated and collected. Drafts issued on San
King George IV
n
(r~\
WHISKY
thelOP_NOlCH" scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
THE COMFORTER.
"After last night, I don’t think I’ll touch
another drink as long as I live!”
"Well, cheer up, old hoy—perhaps it doesn’t
matter much. You don't look as though
you'll live long.”
“Captain”: On the Markham River,
New Guinea, native widows have some weird busi-
ness to go through after the boss has snuffed it/ The
bereaved one is locked up for four months, but is
allowed out at early morning and late night to weep
on the grave of the departed. Any small children
she may have are shut up also. Though the husband
is buried underneath the house his grave is sup?
posed to be at a more distant spot, denoted by a
pole, where all his worldly belongings—hats, orna-
ments, paddles, nets and weapons —are hung till they
decay. After six months, during which time the
widow must not leave the village, she may marry
again. Meanwhile she is not allowed to work in the
fields, the tribe thus giving her time to catch
another man. This custom applies to all the Lower
Markham villages, but not the coastal ones. Along
the Upper Markham the lonely missus is still worse
off. There the late hubby is planted in a shallow
grave covered with day wood only. In a couple of
months the widow takes the -head from the body,
cleans the skull, 'and must drink water at least once
out of it in the presence of the tribe, and always,
no matter where she may roam, she must carry it
inside a grass jumper, which she wears for the pur-
pose. The skull, by the constant friction against
her breasts, becomes polished like ivory. This
practice applies to the “big” men of the village only.
The rest of their bones are thrown into the river.
The bones of the lesser men are burnt. Widows are
known by a white grass affair that they wear oyer
their heads, much resembling in shape a monk’s
cowl. Widowers sport a black hat, more like half
a green coeoanut than anything else. They must
keep it on night and day till they slay a member of
another tribe. They are consequently rather keen on
visiting other villages. When a sorcerer is killed a
big pole is erected, and the natives that took part
in the obliteration act dance round and hurl at it
the spears used in the good work. A feast is part of
the ceremony. Any : good dog that has barked its
last is buried in the village, and a small bamboo
fence is erected around the grave, on top of which is
deposited spears and .jaw-bones of wild pigs. The
dog is supposed to rise at night and feed on the
bones, and if they’re not good enough he takqs. the
weapons and goes hunting for himself.
* * * * .
“Karee”: Strange how little one fefeM a
hit at first. I’ve seen chaps Qarry on until some-
body pointed out that they were covered with blood,
when they’d collapse with the discovery. I remem-
ber, on the Patagonian pampa, years ago, during a
wedding brawl, a stray shot lopped the discolored
bridegroom’s thumb off. He pointed excitedly at the
ground, rolling: “Dios de mi alma, what the blazes
is that funny little thing?” or words to that effect.
It was his own dismembered thumb. Another gauclio
got his eye whipped out with a naraja. His adver-
sary, touched by the sight, kissed and made Mends,
and, hoisting him on his caballo, started to take him
eight miles to the doctor. After the first mile,
Esteban, tired of being lashed on the cheek with his
eye, which was hanging out of its socket, casually
cut the shreds off and, wrapping the organ in his
handkerchief, tore away. On arriving at the doc.’s
estancia, he was greatly disgusted to hear that he’d
settled his own hash, and that nothing could be
done for him; so, after getting it dressed and
another nip of cana de Paraguay on top of his load
of aguardiente, he rode back into the wilderness.
“Cylinder”: Whoso sayeth that the moun-
tain duck is not a good table bird liveth in the
midst of bad cooks. I never had him served up to
me when I was domiciled in the East, but when I
lobbed into Westralia and dallied with one or tivo, I
said grace—“ Lord, this is the place for me.” What
a substantial steak can be cut from that noble
breast! . .Generally the black duck is supposed to be
the best of the family, but, in my opinion, the chest-
nut-breasted teal (king or mountain teal) is abso-
lutely On his own for the table—that is,, of matured
birds. But for a blithering beaut, as grub, I’ll
vote first place to the young mountain.
* * * »
“Imlay”; The grey thrush often enters
rooms and picks up crumbs, etc., but the blue wren
family are not quite so venturesome. However, the
4 -o’clock tea-party at a bush mansion that I know
has occasional visits from the turquoise-crowned lord
of a blue-wren family which lives in the garden.
Having collected biscuit and cake-
crumbs he bops out and joins his
harem. Wild magpies are fed in
winter at the same establishment.
A few taps on the plate of scraps
will bring the birds around the door.
One which, like the rest, disappeared
in the nesting season turned up after
about a year’s absence with a growth
on its leg and toes, resembling
“bumble-foot” in fowls. The little
chap uas caught and operated on, and
kept caged till the wound healed. It
alloM-ed the amateur surgeon to get
through the work without making
an\ r trouble, and when released again
joined the free-eounter-lunch crowd.
Writer has regaled yellow-breasted
robins, blue wrens and Jacky-winters (which will
pick up worms, etc., at one’s very feet) on insects
and bread and cheese out in the open. The yellow-
bobs went nap on cheese, but neither blue wren nor
J.W. would touch it.
* -» *
“Sam OTI.”: The method of relieving
sores and galls as suggested recently by “L.0.U.,”
was not a bad idea about 20 years ago. We do 'it
different now. Instead of packing around the wound
with pads, etc., make a small slit in the lining of
the collar or saddle and take out a portion of
the hair where the pressure is. This allows the
sore to sink into the opening. The onlv time
a pad is wanted is when the trouble is on the back-
bone.
STRICTLY IMPARTIAL.
LITTLE BILLJIM: (according to instructions): “An' please watch over Daddy wherever
he is, an’” (on his own) “you might as well keep an eye on Mum.”
“Leo Lear”: The Tasmanian. Government
should act on “Ornis’s” plea on behalf of the mutton-
birds on the Bass Strait Islands, for if they arc
not protected there they are doomed, despite their
seemingly countless numbers. Of the thousands
that settle on the mainland few fly ofl to sea again.
The fox sees to that, the mutton’s habits making him
an easy catch for the imported smell. In the sum-
mer of 1912-13 I wandered round the lonely wild
headlands at the back of Portland (Vic.), and found
the coastline for miles strewn with bodies of
dead mutton-birds. In every case the fowl had been
torn open and some of the internal organs taken.
Foxes, which are thick in the locality, are alone
responsible. For the muttons it is islands or extinc-
tion. Incidentally, until then I did not know that
the birds wandered so far West. Anyone seen them
still nearer sunset?
THE TIME WAS EOT YET RIPE.
FRIEND: “Don't you think you had hotter go
home to your wife now?”
JAGES : “Not yet, ol' fel'. Let's have a few
more. I don't wanter he able to under-
stand what she says.”.
“Ocker” : For the information of
“Trafalgar,” who asks for records of big shearing
tallies. George Myles, 53 years old, has shorn over
400,000 sheep, and is still turning them out. This
year, at Yorkshire Downs (N.Q.), lie was barbering
up to 160 per diem. But for real old-timers “Tra”
falgar” wants to get out Whitecliffs way. One
there, known as “The .Tap,” has been wool-hawking
for over 50 years, and still does his century and a
half. Neither of these men are booze enthusiasts.
* * * #
Birds which breed on the bare
sand and soft earth, such as dottrels, oyster-catchers
and plover, rely to a great extent on “protective
mimicry” for the concealment of their eggs, i.e.,
the coloring of the shells most perfectly harmonises
with their surroundings. But the hooded dottrrl
(silvery grey-brown with velvety black cowl around
the head and cheeks) and the red-capped dottrel
(pale brown with white underparts and a rust-red
crown), strangely enough, leave a score of tiny
tracks radiating in every direction from
their nests, which are mere shallow
saucer-shaped hollows in sand or soft
earth, so that they are easily discovered.
The oyster-catcher and black-fronted dot-
trel, on the other hand, fly to and from
their nests, and thus leave no guide to
their whereabouts. The spurwing plover
sneaks away from its eggs, while the
plains, or black-breasted, plover ap-
proaches or departs on the wing, and
sometimes endeavors to carry the egg-
away, one by one, in the beak when the
home is discovered. Plover and dottrell
chicks so match their surroundings that
they disappear at one’s very feet as if
by magic, melting, as it were, into the
ground. Immediately one of the parent
birds utters the danger call — very
different from its ordinary note —the
chicks take cover. In other instances it
is the bird alone which is protectively
colored. Thus the large egg of the
white-throated nightjar, blotched and
spotted with black on a ground of cream,
is a most conspicuous object on the hare
earth on which it is laid. But the
plumage of the bird itself —a harmony
in browns, greys, white and black —most
perfectly matches the ground tints of the desolate
ranges on which it most frequently nests; hence it
easily escapes notice when squatting, still as ileath,
cn its single egg.
* * * *
“Foo-lar”; “Yalgun” (B. 2/8/17) asks if
four minutes 20 seconds is a world’s record for
shinning a bullock. No ! Paul Tetzel peeled one in
three minutes 16J seconds for a £5O wager in Eng-
land in 1914.
(Continued on page 24.)
MICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mick the mailman’s going on his last, long ride,
A crowd of men behind him and the leader's pacing
slow ;
It’s a smoother track to travel than the one he used,
to go,
And the horses with their nodding plumes are step-
ping it with pride:
For they know they bear the pick
Of the coaching kings in Mick,
Mho never flogged a willing horse or spared a
slacker’s hide.
The black coach has started and the long day’s done.
’Twas little time he had for rest this side the boun-
dary-gate,
And now he will not worry when the inward mails
are late,
Or the plains are parched and withered in the hot,
December sun ;
He will not care a jot
If the roads are bad or not,
Or whether on the watershed there’s heavy rain or
none.
Mick has left his record on the wide, grey plains.
No one caught him running late when all the tracks
were glue,
And never flood was big enough to stop him getting
through ;
Though the creeks were running bankers in the
sodden winter rains
It was bullock out and in,
Wet and frozen to the skin,
IVith nothing but a peg of rum to pay him for his
pains.
Ilalf-a-score of townships knew his lean, brown face;
Forty homesteads watched his coach come swinging
round the bend ;
Splitters in their lonely camps found in him a
friend ;
His flashing headlights marked the time in many a
lonely place,
Where a loud, excited hum
Told the boys the mails had come ;
And the rumble of his muddy wheels broke the
bonds of space.
Money makes the mare go, runs the old, loud lie;
Tell me did he battle for his wage of fifty bob?
Or was it faith and honor, and a liking for his job
That made him run to schedule time in weather wet
or dry?
Did terror of the sack
Make him forge along the track?
Or was it the same manly pride that shows men how
to die?
Westward go the black duck on their long low flight,
Deeper on the straggling town the twilight shadows
fall,
And Mick lias started outward on the biggest trip of
all,
With a light load on the buckboard, and his hooks
and traces right;
AVhen the bells for closing chime
He will struggle through on time,
Though the Jordan runs a banker and the road is
dark as night.
VICTORIA.
BANK DALY.


m
wm
\\mmm
m
33SE8sateK
/s> -
m
w?rnw\
w/ow®
Jy O
aiii
'^l
K •
f Id
. E
®
■ -
a#
=3jT r'w/)
i" 11 !},' ■•'>ii‘ | fli ||
MWSI
JLsSS®
iSfK
Reasons why
Orient Guinea Boots&SLoes
are pre-eminent Toolwear\^lues.
1. Being fashioned after London’s most favored last, they
can always be relied on for correctness of style.
2. The dependable leathers, reliable standard of workman-
ship. and perfection of fittings guarantee satisfactory
service.
3. The ensured ease, comfort, durability and good taste, com- '
bined with moderation in price, constitute them the
soundest values possible in footwear to-day.
Tan and Black Box Calf "Orient” Lace Boots or Shoes.
Two fittings stocked to each size, sto 10. 21/- pair.
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE.
DMD JONES LTD.
OPR
G.RO.
SYDNEY
V
DADDY 5
HOME *
V
HILUERS
CHOCOLATES
THE IMPORTATION OK
CONFECTIONERY IS NOW
PROHIBITED.
We did not ask nor urge this.
“Ernest Ilillier” Chocolates
have always competed success-
fully with the imported article.
We insist that there is no finer
Confectionery made in any part
of the world. Plenty of high-
grade Confectionery has been
imported to Australia, but it
must necessarily be very stale
when it reaches the actual con-
sumer.
Our policy is to supply the pub-
lic direct, and our Chocolates
are despatched to you on the
same day that they are made.
The date of manufacture is
stamped in every box.
Packed only in red Boxes.
Post free to any address in
Australia.
Prices: 3/-, 5/-, 0/6,
10/6, 15/- and 25/-
SineStHi Kin
162 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
LEVIATHAN TAILORING
The Tailoring of This Great House is decidedly
of the better class. By avoiding the vulgarity
of the extreme, and the freakishness of the un-
usual, Leviathan Suits are designed with a dig-
nity and refinement that have made them first in
favor amongst all well-dressed gentlemen.
Never do we send out a Suit without first
being sure that it possesses correct Cut, Fit,
Style and Superior Workmanship. And
this shall continue to be the policy of our
Establishment.
Leviathan Suits retain their shape after
many months of hard wear. They are cut
by Expert Cutters (craftsmen who are
qualified to give shape and style to every
garment they design)—and are tailored
throughout by carefully-trained and
long-experienced workers. j
Write now for Free Patterns
of the New
Spring 8 Summer
Suitings at
63/-,75|-,84|-,
90 - to 147 1-
together with Tape awl Home-measure ;
ment Chart. Order your new suit before
selection becomes restricted.
*lan;
M
■
1«1
a
I
CJ
HHHH
rv
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
p T*«
Leviathan
MELBOURNE.
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
12=1NCH
DOUBLE=SIDED
from
3/- each
from
5/- each
Some Excellent 'Columbia Records.
12-inch DOUBLE-SIDED. PRICE, 0/- each.
5 Love’s Garden of Roses Hubert Eisdell, tenor.
( Wa it I Hubert Eisdell, tenor.
I Parted .. i » » ”
j ( Blow, Blow, Thou Winter Win'd Gervase Elwes, tenoi.
ot> l (a) Now Sleeps the Crimson Pets 1 lb) Love’s Philosophy. „ » >■
, l<m j Cuckoo Song Gervase Elwes. tenor.
1 \ The Roadside Fire J » » ”
1,1008 ( Veoinen of England Kennerley Romford, baritone.
{ Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes ~ » ”
L 1026 f AVhere My Caravan Has Rested Kennerley Rumford, baritone.
} When the Swallows Homeward Fly ... .. » »
10-inch DOUBLE-SIDED. PRICE, 4/3 each.
So Fare Thee Well, from “£»oris” Maurice D’Oisly, tenor.
1 Take a Pair of Sparkling ®,yes » ,
In Sympathy g Maurice D Oisly,
( Those Azure, Azure Eyes ~ »
12-inch DOUBLBI-SIDET). PRICE, 0/- each.
f Meditation, from “Thais”, Albert Sammons,
) Legende, Op. II !> »
1 Sarabanda i- Albert Sammons,
Lll2O
Lll2l
D 1335
D 1338
1,1012
LIOIB
tenor.
violin.
violin.
( Bagatelle .......
[ Elgar Concerto in
| (a) Allegretto
[(b) Andante
( (c) Lento
Albert Sammons.
“B” Minor, for Piano and Orchestra
) With Orchestra
\ conducted by '
r 1072 ! ~ J Sir Htenry ,T. Wood.
J. 1072 | ( c j) Allegro-molto 3 ~ J . , • .
(Andante, from Quartette tin “G” Minor -London String Quaitet.
1,1004 j Andante Cantabile. Quartette, Op. 11 » ”,
) Movement from Quartette, No. 12 London String Quaitet.
LlOlo | Scherzo, from Quartette,/in “D.*
( Beethoven Quartette in i'“G.” O]
L 1036 ) (a) Allegro, (b) Adagio-Allegro ‘
( Beethoven Quartette in “G.” 0p... 18. No. 2 London Stnn„ Quaitet.
LT° 6B ) ( c ) Scherzo, (d) Allegjo-molto
GRAND OPERA IN ENGLISH—I2-inch Doublet-Sided, 6/- each.
{ RIGOLETTO: Quartette, “Fairest Daughter of the Graces” (Verdi)
I Rosina Buckmah, Edith Clegg, Maurice D’Oisly, Frederic Austin.
L 1025 | pauST: Trio (Prison Scene), “Holy Angels in Heavten Blest” ... (Gounod)
l Rosina Bnekman, Maurice D’Oisly, Frederick Ranalow.
10-inch DOUBLE-SIDED, 4/3 each.
/FAUST: Duel Trio, “O Thou Who Dullest Might” >* (Gounod)
I Frederick Blarney, Frederic Austin. Frederick Ranalow.
MARITANA: “Turn On, Old Tiuie” (W.. V. Wallace)
t Edith Clegg, Maurice D’Oisly, Frede*ick Ranalow.
12-inch DOUBLE-STDED. PRICE, 6/- each.
■ ( Humoreske (Dvorak) Katihleen Paih’ow, violin.
’ ( Meiody in “F” (Rubinstein)
t 11 iii f Nocturne in “E” Flat : Kathleen Parlcr>v, violin.
|j “° l ( Liebesfreud (Kreisler) . „
D 1336
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOE. CO'LUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd.. Dakin# Holism, Rawson Plare. '
MELBOI RNE, VlC.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim J»ty. “Ltd., 173 William St.
BRISBANE, <}. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Areade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan. Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd* Wakefield & Allen Sts,
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.—Webley Sons and GoCton. Ltd., 243 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladier recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southami;'.on. — Advt.
MEGGITT’S
LINSEED oil MEAI.
m
r\E
PAR
/
N*
\t r
w
4*
\
m
MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
What Australian
Farmers say of it.
TO publish oven exerts ? S ’ PlBS ' Horses Poultry.
uSa to °- much "p^Vutfhl°oi£ te . s H tif - vi '« to the value of Meggitt’s
clients:— 1 s-enes of announcement* °i vino- f a » n ldea of t,le growing popularity of the
Mr p P ter I T- SPBTM V?, * from the letters of a few satisfied farmer
jii. reter jl. Tisrhe. Ferodale » , NO. 1.
Meggitt s Linseed Oil Meal whirV,"* Raymond Terrace, says- “v n ,■ ,
and healthv. it i s ,u ' ' tlvo ' lc h gates a better and ''°t should be without a supply ot
Shorthorn, Durham, / lOO,ls - F eroda n o < 0t milk ;{t " m ma jte your weak stock stron?
Mr. A. E. M-hiteiaw, HHI Ton d Jerse - V rattle.” L Possesses some of the finest milking strains of
Mr. W °i! ld *** ''o"'^ without it £ insml oil Meal. I cannot speak too highly
- -«>■ , »-
It to corn.” ' eed Meal is easily the be<t i t hthv - and g iv e a big amount of cream.
When purchasing from your stor u '* 0 USI ‘ the ,nea l for my horses, and they prefer
From all from. Agents clarks™ ° f h °" t 0
and Hobart; Blair Ree d *o^*^
MEGGITT ITn
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers,
26King Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
"It.C.D." : Re “L.’s" story of the old gin
placing her grandchild to her own breast for sus-
tenance after its mother’s death (B. 26/7/’l7). An
even more remarkable case came under the notice of
an Australian girl nursing in the backblocks. When
black mother died the piccaninny was suckled by a
virgin; at least, the foster-mother was unmarried
and without child. The milk was brought to the
breasts by a process of poulticing, but the only in-
gredient in the mixture that the white woman could
discover was mud.
‘ Peg-Leg" : Collect the drinks from “Tam-
o Shanter” (B. 2 8/’l7). The stingray I saw
stranded at Port Stephens was 9ft. 3in. long, and
they said it wasn’t a very big one. The old coaeh-
man at Tenelba used a ray’s tail for a whip. It
was 7ft. long. Now work out the size of the fish
he must have found. By the way, the fattest pigs
around the port are those which have a daily meal
of raj - .
THESE CARELESS KIDS.
“Hullo! How did she puncture?"
“Broken bottle."
“ Couldn't you see it?" .
“Nah! The kid hod it under his coat.”
“H.E.R.'’: Don't fancy the tree-grub? Try
it this way. A dozen bardies, a similar quantity of
mushrooms, butter, pepper and salt cooked together
on a shovel over a camp-fire. P.S.—lf you haven't
got a shovel, a silver entree-dish will do.
“Itan”: Amongst the divining-rod sceptics
i> ‘'Petifi' (B. 2/8/’l7), who doubts the power of
the Rev. E. Pocknall, of Tenterfield (N.S.W.), to
ascertain the depth of flows by means of a perpen-
dicular rod. These doubts arise mainly because
there have been so many failures to find water
where the rod lias seemingly indicated its presence
to persons who could not tell the difference between
mineral and water, or soda, magnesia and other sub-
stances. Pocknall has so developed his knowledge
that he can overcome all these difficulties, and* he
has one rod which will turn for nothing but fresh
water. A man out west who had the same views as
"Petifi" wagered that the expert could not tell him
how many streams were cut by a bore and the
respective depths. The diviner supplied data quite
exact in most instances and within a very few feet
in others, and won the wager. If “Petifi" has any
money to back his opinion with, I’ll see that he gets
a flutter.
* * < *
The iUKlerer": Tough bushwomen?
" ell, on the Manning in the olden days lived a Miss
Kelly, who on one occasion was grimly taking a
couple of her hired servants to Port Macquarie to be
corrected. On the way a flooded stream had to
be crossed, and one of the men, after a big struggle,
sated the hard-faced spinster from drowning. She
-aw to it that he got the lash all the same. She
had her home at Brimbin, near Cundle, and one
night gave some drover- permission to camp their
cattle in her yard. The drovers slept by their fire,
and next morning sent the camp boy to the
house for a cup of milk for the tea. Some 20 yards
from the house he saw a fine calf lying dead, and
mentioned the matter to Miss Kelly. “Yes,” she
answered; “I thought in the dark last night it was
one of those men poking about, so I p it a bullet
through it.”
* * * *
“Norbell”: “Daybreak’s” title of the
tethered horse which couldn't be located and so died
miserably (B. 9 8/’l7) reminds me of a picturesque
yarn the police-trooper at Harrietville (Vic.) told
me years ago. When Dungey, afterwards a well-
known Melbourne sleuth, was stationed in that re-
mote townlet away back o’ Bright, he set out in
pursuit of a notorious evildoer who had announced
his intention of shooting on sight any policeman
that came after him. Dungey tracked the quarry to
an almost* inaccessible part of the ranges and tied
his horse to a tree whilst he continued the trail on
foot. He duly overtook his man, who opened fire—-
a trifle late. Dungey dragged the body down the
mountain side till he struck a hatter’s mining camp,
where he borrowed a packhorse, and so lumbered the
remains to Harrietville. Then he went baek to look
for his prad; but the country in that part is so wild
that it took Dungey, an experienced bushman, three
days to find the unfortunate animal. When dis-
covered the poor brute had gnawed all the bark off
the tree to which it was tied and had scooped a
fair-sized trench round the roots, but it was alive.
When Governor Loch camped out on Featliertop for
a few days Ducgey acted as his mounted orderlv,
and did the job so well that his Ex. had him trans-
ferred to Melbourne to act in a similar capacity
there. Afterwards he was promoted to the C.I.D.
BUSINESS.
PAPA COHEN: "Izzy, dear poy, I've just been makin’ my will at the la(?)yer’s. an’ us
you’re the one as benefits the most, I’m a-goin’ to take the ex(?)eathes out of yes
next reek’s rages.”
“H-E.lt/’: The crow sits on a limb near
my poultry-run and yells, “Starved! Starved!'’ Pre-
sently a fool of a fowl advertises that she has done
it again, and if she runs away to tell a friend, the
crow flaps from her open nest with the egg in his
bill. Once 1 tilled his favorite raiding nest with
iggs that the incubator had said were rotten; but
these he left strictly alone. Even then I did not
credit him with special knowledge until I mixed
good ana bad eggs. The old burglar sorted them
out successfully, so I conferred upon him the degree
of Doctor of Devilry.
* * + *.
Ornis : "I).K (B. 2G/7/T7) says that
Hinders reckoned the number of mutton-birds he
saw in 1791) (December 9, 1798, correct date) as
220,000.000. Flinders's statement reads: “I think
the number could not have been less than a hundred
millions.” From particulars given in the ex-
plorer s narrative, A. J. Campbell computes the
number >een at 132,000,000. But it is humanlv
impossible to even approximately estimate the num-
bers present in a great flock of birds passing at a
rapid rate and whose outer edge is invisible. I
speak as a birdologist who has seen a number of
great flights at various times. The largest one I
have witnessed was in -October, 1910, when I was
camping on a small island in Bass Strait. The
leathered stream flowed from west to east for four
solid hours. The birds were closely massed and
flying low. The far side of the seemingly endless
procesMon appeared merged into the waves in the
distance. It was, as far as the eye could reach from
east to west and out to the north, a swift-movie,
pulsating river of feathers. An attempt to even
roughlt guess at the numbers that went bv would be
ridiculous. It was a sight never to be forgotten.
C. J.^\. . Can any bushwhacker inform
me if Australia has a bird which, in point of sound
ToYT aV rican hornbill ' s which is said
to be heard for uvo miles in a windless valley ? I
believe our loudest-voiced bird is either the curlew
o. the kookaburra—or perhaps the cow.
* * *
' Larrikin": The yarn that cattle chew
defunct fox bones isn’t true, but I have seen both
cattle and sheep, during the dry autumn months
t'YhYYY SCarCe ’ eating ’ tlle ceases of rabbits
Lantana : Here ! Y\ . Treeford, working
on Killarney, the property of Mrs. A. H. Conroy,
Canowindra (X.S.W.), ploughed, sowed and har-
rowed, single-handed, 400 acres between March 15
and June 20—14 weeks. Xon', come on. Or per-
haps you’d better not come on: tell instead of some-
body who so thoroughly cultivated his land that he
handled only 40 acres in that time, and expected to
- £t a> biff a net y ield from that lot as the average
rip-and-tear cocky gets from 500 acres. These big-
area farms, poorly worked, are one of the seven
curses of Australia.
* * * *
A.H.C.’: Re black cockatoos. ‘TI.Y.E."
(B. 12/7/’l7) seems to think that a flock of
30 is rather extraordinary, and this I find to be a
prevailing impression. In some parts of the Gulf
(Q.) the red-tailed variety are almost as numerous
a- the white, and here’s my experience of a mob.
Me were camped one morning in Xoventber on a
plain lying between the Saxby River and some miles
of sand-ridge forest. At about seven o'clock we
could hear the long-drawn-out cry of the black cocky
in the direction of the timber, and presently dis-
cerned a fairly large school. In their slow, lumber-
ing flight over broad, open ground, it is a simple
matter to count them, so two of us got on the
job. In this flock there were over 90. Other flocks
followed them, six in all, numbering from 80 to
120 in each. They all settled on the plain, and
'here must then have been betwen 600 and 700 bird-
feeding together.
* * * *
"Bill 2E" : How long does the emu sit on
her eggs before the chicks appear? I once came
across this big fowl on a nest and had to ask her
twice before she (or perhaps it was he) would rise.
After considering the dozen eggs a good deal I con-
cluded that they were very much addled, so left
them. Six weeks later I happened along again and
was surprised to And my old friend still on the job,
and the eggs appeared to be the same as on my
last visit. I've heard it said that if the eggs are
touched the bird comes back and kicks them to
pieces. This one didn’t.
BILL COMES HOME TO-NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is no time to worry
With trifling things to-day.
Though the cowyard i- a slurry,
The late rain spoilt the hay,
The wheat was pinched and rusty,
The spuds have got the Idight—•
Still things are not too dusty,
For Bill comes home to-night!
The earth shines like a feather
Pluiked from a parrot’s breast;
The sky, this Autumn weather,
Is like a blue-wren’s crest;
A magpie choir is singing
An anthem of delight,
And through it I hear ringing:
■‘Bill's coming home to-night!”
Though it was hours too early
I've twice been down the track,
And Bill's old sheep-dog, Curly,
Walked with me there and back,
And now sits, brown eyes blinking,
As though he- read quite right
The one thought I am thinking—
“ Bill's coming home to-night!”
Mum's busy cooking tucker,
The table's ready set,
Just waiting for the sucker
That’s in the oven yet;
There’s Bill's old favorite briar
Filled ready just to light,
The arm-chair's by the fire,
For Bill comes home to-night.
My eyes grow wet while watching—-
They must be getting weak.
The trouble, too, seems catching,
A tear rests on Mum’s cheek ;
Dad sings and whistles loudly,
To show he is all right,
And tells old Blossom, proudly,
“Bill’s, coming home to-night!”
TASMANIA.
H. W. STEWART.


* '„■ ■■
£
—-
—'
Hr
S '• 1
? :
'
'gm
r? j? 4 .;
Hag
**^s
k
■
?T
*
■£
Ji
m
ml
m
■ «Mk
n
je •
m
*
1111
-
•
-.
-*#•
■-
HMUtV
• •
.
.--m.
/
#te
-
'
Sulphide Corporation Ltd.
Residues Conveyor Belt.
'nr" n height of incline
fft. •’ boomstacker length
102 It., boomstacker belt2lojh_
Junction North.
Slime Conveyor Belt.
Total length of Dunlop belt
538 ft long, 18 in. wide, 5 ply,
average inclination of belt
22 deg., greatest inclination
of belt 32 deg., maximum
speed of belt 340 ft per min.
This conveyor is handling
.sandy residues from the
floatation plant at the rate
of about 20 tons per hour.
These residues contain
about 15% moisture.
•south Mine.
£ss
£»»«• *lB*i„.
a,l °"’ Plant residues.*
2)o YOU realise the great Work being carried on day after day—year
after year—throughout this Country by the giant Dunlop Conveyor
"Belts, made in Australia by the Dunlop Rubber Co. ?
The work these Belts are doing has to be seen to be realised. The illustrations shown of some Dunlop
Conveyors, in operation in Broken Hill, will to a degree bring home to business men the tremendous
possibilities of the Conveyor System for moving ore, tailings, stone, phosphates, wheat, etc., etc. The day of
the Conveyor has come in this country. Its economy in operation and maintenance has been proved, and
also the fact that the
DUNLOP CONVEYOR
stands alone for Quality, Staunchness and Dependability. In all the leading Mining centres, the “ Dunlop”
is recognised as the Great Service Belt—a reputation earned on what the Belts have done and the years
of service they give without the slightest trouble.
We have the finest and largest Rubber Mills Plant in the Southern Hemisphere, and our Belting Section—Conveyor and Driving—is
capable of handling any Belting proposition you desire to put in operation. We shall be pleased to submit samples and prices, and
place our knowledge re the installation of Conveyors, Elevators, etc., at your disposal. REMEMBER—it costs you no more to instal
‘ Dunlop” Conveyor or Driving Belts, etc., the difference is in the Service and Satisfaction they give.
DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
108 FLINDERS STREET. MELBOURNE. 27-33 WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY. 268-274 ADELAIDE STREET. BRISBANE. 67 KING STREET, PERTH. 103-105 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE
53 CAMERON STREET, LAUNCESTON. 95 COURTENAY PLACE, WELLINGTON. 116. WORCESTER STREET, CHRISTCHURCH. 62 FORT STREET, AUCKLAND.
n
D “t515V........
. £inc r„r-
- a*v»»s«S:^
Be" No "I ™“fef "° 1 1!T 264 „
"“i SKed 2 ««


The Aged and Infirm
are sometime# more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and rigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, as it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST— a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
4Pt
HzJ?
‘
ft
w
PH
_■-
ll.fi
14.
I < 7 ri
| c Hi^tutr-ln'Twi,
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to—
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices —
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington. N.Z.
A very excellent and successful singer was
lately lifting up his voice in Australia. His?
fad is joinery, and he invariably puts up at
a suburban establishment where be can rig
a workshop. During his Melbourne season
he lived at St. Kilda, and as a mark of
appreciation for favors received at the hands
of the gardener he built the man a fine pine
wheelbarrow. The gardener was enraptured.
“Look ’ere, Mister ,” he said. “If you
can make wheelbarrows like that, why d’you
go round singin’?”
“Jwosp”: Australian Ronald Bryarn is
doing remarkably well in the U.S.A. I re-
member him supering in 11. B. Irving’s co.
with Ernie Pirie Bush, of Maoriland.
Bryam jogged to the States shortly after
Bush went with Niblo, and the young ’uns
got into a condensed version of “Her Hus-
band’s Wife” at the ’alls. Bryam then sup-
ported Elsie Ferguson in Boston, aud while
at that centre of culture accepted an offer
as leading man for the best local stock co.
At latest he was playing lead in “The Angel
in the House,” the delightful comedy in
which H. R- Irving scored two years ago.
“Glen II.”: “J.F.H.” (B. 9/8/T7) men-
tions the death of Johnny Wallace, whilst
playing in the orchestra at the Geelong
Theatre Royal, as “probably the only in-
stance of such a tragically sudden exit in
Australian theatrical history.” There is at
least one other —that of Walter Dalgleish,
for years one of Bilanderson’s leading stage
villains. Walter, while playing at Perth,
had a fatal seizure, just when he was about
to propose to the heroine in “The Soldier’s
Wedding,” and died well in the limelight.
“First Old Man”: “Stargazer” (B.
16/8/T7) expresses surprise that dumb-show
performers of w 7 ell-remembered pantomime
troupes have not come to the fore in the pic-
tures. The Martinettis retired from business
years ago—long before the big boom in
movies. Paul, the star mime, could, I imagine,
have made a huge success on the screen, but
pantomiming is a strenuous game and he
wisely left it to younger men. There has
been very little dumb-show on the vaudeville
stage of late years, and what has survived
has not been in the same class as the Martin-
etti, Lauri. and Lupino offerings^of my youth.
However, there is still the Ivarno troupe,
capital fun-makers, and many of the mem-
bers have become filmers. As “Stargazer
may know, Charlie Chaplin himself was
originally a Karno comedian, and first
appeared in America in the sketches of that
combination.
From J. M. Neild: —
My brother Charlie, killed in France, was not ‘ an
architectural draughtsman” (B. 2/8/T7), hut a
qualified architect. The depression in the building
trade forced him, like many others, outside his chosen
profession. Even when he resumed his profession he
could not forget the paint-frame,, and did quite a
lot of scenic work in connection with amateur per-
formances. At the time he joined George Gordon
“The Life of Pleasure” was in preparation. A
Charlie was a sapper in the Field Engineers he hai
charge of the bridge-building in the battle-scene,
believe Bland Holt still has the model of the bridge,
made by my brother, amongst his cherished souvenirs.
So far 140 J.C.W. employees have accepted
parts in the war ‘drama. One, Private c.
Murfitt, has annexed a D.C.M. —one of t
two decorations that you can almost re
upon to really mean something extra-me
torious.
“75”: Two points .1 see insisted on a>r
(a) the infinite pains to which Cyril 'la _
goes in studying people to use as stag
models, (6) his mastery of “make up-
Judging by liis Grumpy, it seems to me t •
Maude’s studies have been made, not in
outside world, but in the theatre. '- xr V n ip n
is a composite picture of half a , in ”
aucients of the footlights. As to “make P-
if this is to be regarded as a branch or < •
the art which conceals art should be
ployed. The perfect “make up” I s
of which the spectators are not consc , ■
Maude’s in “Grumpy” is not only elab
but obvious.
KID STAKES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Audiences ought to try to keep the fresh outlook
of a child upon the theatre.’’ —Kathlene Macdonell.
Once on a time the footlights were
The lights of fairyland;
All heroines were wondrous fair,
Grand passions very grand.
To sit and at the chorus gaze
Alone seemed worth the money;
And in those far-off, happy days,
E’en funny men were funny 1
But I’ll he shot
If I can spot
A Lauri in the present lot.
Unfortunately, too, since then
We’ve found out many things.
Stage villains once seemed living men.
And cabbages were kings.
We did not glare in helpless rage
At heroes mild and mincing;
And all that happened on the stage
Was strikingly convincing.
We thought (oh joy!)
The panto “boy”
Wore legs like those without alloy!
Stage fairies now are not so fair;
We’ve come to understand
The limelight as the light that ne’er
Occurred on sea or land.
And no more w'ill we know that dear,
Delightful childhood’s rapture,
Until we can the atmosphere
Of childhood’s day recapture
And laugh away,
Absurdly gay,
Or cry once more when at a play.
If we in sailor suits and socks
Could to the playhouse go,
With female friends in frilly frocks,
Designed their knees to show,
And if a kindly management
Of toys kept a profusion,
And gave each girl a doll, each gent.
A drum, the old illusion
We might attain,
And ease our pain
By “kidding” we were kids again!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“C. J.W.”: Here is a claimant for the
heavy-weight champion belt —a Berkshire
sow with a touch of the British black in her.
She was sold by William Drummond to
Messrs. Crisp, of Tenterfield (N.S:W.),and
scaled 4601 b. dressed weight. Dimensions:
76in. from nose to butt of tail; 63in. girth
under forelegs; height at shoulder, 32in.;
across shoulder, 20in.; width across loins,
15in. She was reared on boiled wheat, bran
and kitchen waste, without milk at any
time. With a litter of six she brought
£2O 10s.
“F.N.T.” : What becomes of the raspberry
seeds after the cordial-makers have expressed
the juice from the berry? The other day I
tasted some suspiciously “wooden” rasp-
berry jam. The flatness of the flavor called
to mind a factory that flourished before
pure-food laws were numerous. Nothing was
wasted in those good old days. The ripe
raspberry was unjuiced for cordial-making
and the remaining seedy pulp was passed'
along to the jam department. The finished
“raspberry” jam consisted of (1) pale pulp,
(2) coloring, (3) guava or apple juice, and
(4) sugar. The law still allows the “sophis-
tication” (and the improvement, by the
way) of strawberry jam with apple-juice,
so long as the whole strawberry is included
in the product and in a certain proportion.
It would be interesting to know if somebody
in the right place is ignoring the hyper-
sophistication of the now somewhat scarce
rasp.
“D.F.”: Pansy-seed is another of the
little things that Australia used to import
from Germany because it “couldn’t be both-
ered” to do the saving. As a result since the
Ilun product was blocked from the market
pansy seed has been so scarce that it has
risen from 10s. to 30s. an ounce, and even
then you cannot get any guarantee that it
will come true to color.
* * * *
“8.M.”: Don’t know if it is the rain or
the war that’s bringing them out, but at a
N. S. Wales sheep acreage there have lately
arrived via a labor agency the following
samples: No. 1, booked as handy man, was
an ex-tailor and resembled old “Pro Bono
Publico.” Asked to kill a turkey, he said
he was afraid to, as he heard they scratched
badly. No. 2 arrived as a boundary-rider.
Questioned, he owned Up that he was a ship’s
steward. He looked the last word in com-
mercial travellers. No. 3, intended for a
groom, said he was an ex-station manager,
but had all the evidences of being a “tank”
out of action. When asked to clean boots
he answered that he’d never cleaned them in
his life, not even his own. He was as proud
of it, too, as if he’d won the Battle of the
Marne single-handed.
* * * *
“Hospes” : It’s a hard world for us girls.
One of us writes to Melbourne Herald legal
column stating that she is in receipt of an
invalid pension, and wanting to know
whether her friends can carry out their
threat to stop it if she accepts from “a very
old bachelor friend” a room rent-free in
exchange for her reading aloud to him. “And
can I recover damages from my friends,”
asks she, “if they make statements ipiputing
to me a want of chastity?” Solon answered
“No” and “Yes”; so there’s one at'least of
us who can be saved from our friends.
* * * v - *
“Rustler”: One of the drawbacks to
“gumming” in the Wheatstone system of
telegraphy in use between all the capital
cities is the stickiness of everything after
a few minutes’ work. Gumming at 180
words a minute does not leave any time for
the washing of the hands, and they soon
become dirty and uncomfortable. Many
experiments had been tried to overcome this
without reducing efficiency, but none were
successful until a young telegraphist re-
cently tried mixing equal parts of ordinary
soapy water with the gum. With this mix-
ture it is now possible to gum all day with-
out inconvenience, and the tapes stick quite,
as well as they used to.
* * * *
“J.J.S.”: Somebody has sent the Win-
the-War Government for a slide on butter.
In February Federal Ministers decided to
guard against a winter shortage, and the
trade, which in each State has an Advisory
Committee to control the Pool arrangements,
was called in to suggest a workable scheme.
The buttermen’s idea was that the Govern-
ment should buy up enougli to meet the
shortage at a fixed price, and sell it out as
required with storage and interest charges
added. This was agreed to, and £lOO,OOO
borrowed from the Commonwealth Bank to
provide the needful. When the details were
settled, butter supplies began to fall oil, and
all export was stopped to meet immediate
and storage demands. So acute was the
shortage that the buttermen were successful
in inducing Minister Ted Russell to advance
prices a penny a pound. And then the
figure began to work. Butter became plenti-
ful and now there is a surplus. But con-,
sumers are still paying a penny a pound more
than usual, and the Government dare not
lower the price, because if it did it would
be losing money on the heavy stocks it
holds. The traders in Flinders-lane and
Sussex-street who handle the grease are
smiling, and the S. M. Herald is gleefully
remarking that Ministers will be taught not
to meddle in a business of which they know
nothing. But the public pays—the public
pays.
“C.F.E.”: When the Vic. Railways shoved
up freights the Associated Fertilisers’ secre-
tary wrote a pathetic letter weeping for the
“poor farmer.” This brought forth a man
who sneered at the Fertilizers’ grief as an
artificial product. Then one of the captains
of the industry called in his stenographer
and dictated a long screed in which he
talked pathetically of “faithful service” ren-
dered to the farmer by himself and friends.
This is some of the faithful service ren-
dered 1914-1917. Superphosphate has been
bumped up in price per cent. Dried
blood has soared per cent. Ammonium
sulphate has ballooned 48 per cent. Grant-
ing for the. first-named that the war has in-
creased freights, why should the buyers
suffer a decrease per 20s. expended of from
103§lb. (1907) to 791 b. (1914) of water-
soluble phosphoric acid? This simply means
that the wheat farmer has to increase the
amount of fertiliser per acre. It also means
more freight charges and handling. To. the
potato farmer sulphate of ammonia is a
necessity owing to its quick action on a
quick crop. This is a product of the gas
cos., and was largely exported before the
war. It therefore, in the absence of ship-
ping, shouldn’t be dearer now. Dried blood
is useful for all vegetable and orchard
growths. “Faithful service” has pushed up
the price and decreased the valuable nitro-
gen contents.
South Australia has treated one of its
fcrests (at Glenelg River, on the Vic. border)
to a 50-foot watch-tower, which gives an
outlook for miles around. It is said to be
the first application to an Australian forest
of the fire-detection device common in cities.
* * * *
“Scientificus”: While quite agreeing with
“Glen Iris” (B. 9/8/T7) that agents and
dealers make the easiest profit out of poul-
try-farms, I disagree when he denies the
possibility of making a living by selling eggs
and fowl meat while buying feed at retail
prices. I can show him a run of less than
1000 hens from which the owner makes not
less than £5 per week profit in his spare
time. The whole of this comes from the sale
of eggs and old hens. Without doubt many
muddlers fail at the gentle art, and they are
mostly the unmethodical suburbanites whom
“Glen Iris” extols. In reality the fatuity of
the average Mr. Suburbs in poultry-rearing is
only concealed by the prodigality of his
wife in the kitchen. Where the family waste
is large the poultry-feed bill is small; but
they are dear eggs at the price.
* * * *
“Bogan”: Here and there a waybacker
still prefers to bank his money with Mother
Earth, never dreaming that the old lady
occasionally lets her depositors down. A
worried-looking man came into a N. S.
Wales country bank one day recently. He
handed a bottle, half filled with a grey dust,
across the counter, and asked if the Bank
would give him what he reckoned the con-
tents were worth. He explained that
a year or two previously he had buried
a roil of notes in the bottle and on digging
it up again discovered that the paper had
partially mouldered away. The manager
was whistled up and decided that he
wouldn’t chance it; but I believe the chap
was put in the way of getting back a bit of
his own in Sydney later on.
“Centurion”: There never was such a
country as Egypt for eggs, or such a people
as its inhabitants for turning the egg into
hen with a view to turning her back again
into egg. Every village in cultivated Egypt
has its incubator, a weird building with fur-
nace attachments and many small rooms
opening into each other. Sometimes there
are a couple of these chicken-factories, and
then the rival proprietors occasionally fight
among the eggs with disastrous results to
the profits. The floor of the rooms is
covered with a mixture of loam and chaff.
On this the eggs are laid, and the proprietor
goes ceaselessly through the chambers, turn-
ing the eggs over. This is done day and
night, the family supplying the reliefs.' The
necessary heat comes from the furnace, whicli
is fed with manure cakes, the expert, who
has inherited the job from his ancestors,
keeping the right temperature in some
mysterious fashion. From every dozen eggs
given him he is bound to return the investor
six chickens. All over he keeps as his pay-
ment. Incubators of 100,000-egg capacity
are common, and at El Marg, outside Cairo,
is one that is said to deal with half a million
at a time.
THE MURRAY MARINERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, you who make the streets’ unrest, how little do
you know
Of this the land in which you live, and laugh, and
older grow!
How many of you know the routes the hawking
steamers take —
The fussy, paddle-wheeled affairs, with barges in
their wake ?
But we the children of the flats through which
the Murray flows,
We know and love the steamer-store that peddles
scran and clo’es.
We know each little stopping-place, we know the
staring eyes,
We know the needs of river-folk. Is one of you
as wise?
And though at times we take the track, or train it
to the sea,
And though we watch the cargo-boats, low-laden by
the Quay,
We don’t forget the inland boats, but, in our minds,
again
We sail the routes that lead by bank, and spur,
and road and plain.
We leave the town of Morgan, and the first gay
port ahead
Is Lake Victoria Station, and then Ned’s Corner
Shed.
Then onward to Ned’s Station, and thence to old
Kulnine,
And further on to Moorna, and the Moorna stretch
a-shine.
From Moorna on to Anabranch, and thence to Went-
worth—-than
Which river-port there’s none more dear to any
sailor-man!
And next to Kelso, then—if but the “water” lets
us go—
To sell our remnants to the folk of quiet Tapio.
What know you in the city’s roar of this, and what
we see
Of life upon the river’s banks, its joy and tragedy?
Ah, little do your wisest know, and little do they
care,
Who never knew the hawker-boats, nor stared the
river-stare 1
N'.S.W.
R. J. C.


/
"
\
m m
I BoomerangpaTTem
j Tyres bane protred
To Toe T/ie mosT
re/fab/e aoT/sk/d
ei/er p/aced before
AusTra/Tan MoTorisTs
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C°L D
Pounders of [he Rubber Indusfry in Ausfralasia.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.
BRISBANE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON. CHRISTCHURCH.AUCKLAND.


A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond, knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklace, set pearls and
aquamarines or tourmalines,
£2/10/-. Set
and aquamarines or tour-
malines, 15ct. gold,
£5/15/-
A. Saunders’ ;
9ct. Gold /
Safety Tie Pin,
3/6, 4/6,
5/6, accord-
ing to size.
A. Saunders’ Wishbone and
Battalion-color Brooch, any
Battalion colors supplied, Set.
gold, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Battalion Ring, any
colors supplied, 9et.
gold, 25/-. Lady’s
A. Saunders’ Links,
daintily engraved, Oct.
gold, 10/6.
A. Saunders' pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
King, 18ct. gold,
£lO.
Larger diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gcnt.’s
Amethyst set King,
Oct. gold, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Sil-
ver Hunting Keyless Lever
Watch, full jewelled. £2.
Heavier case, 50/-. Gold-filled
Elgin or Waltham, £4/4/-,
£5/5/-, £6/6/-. Oct.
gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
I4ct. gold, £B/10/- 18ct.
gold, £lO.
4- Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set with pearls and
aquamarines or garnets,
10/6.
ALL ORDERS POST FREE
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle and Spray
Brooch, loct. gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bracelet, set with Amethyst,
35/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
loct. jrold,
"
. dm
£ c-
m
SPECIAL VALUE, £3.
•'
&
!K $
A. Saunders' Curb Snap
strong safety chain, 9ct.
30/-, £2, £2/10/-,
Padlock Bangle, with
gold, £3. Other sizes,
£3/10/-,£4/10/-,£5.
A. Saunders’ Nellie Stewart Bangle, secret snap, Oct. gold
£2. Others, 30/-, £2/10/-, £3. 15ct. gold, £3/10/-
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Luminous Radium Dial Wristlet Watch, gun-
metal < r nickel case, jewelled movement, 25/- Extra
qualitv, 30/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. Solid gold,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £O/ 10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Railway
Station),
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £5
A. Saunders Lady’s
Hand-clasp Ring,
9ct. gold, 20/-
15ct., 25/-
18ct., 30/-
A. Saunders’ Links,
daintilv engraved, 9ct.
gold, 20/-. 15ct., 35/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. solid
Gold, Half-hunting Keyless
Lever Watch, fiill jewelled,
compensation balance,
£4/10/-.
14ct. gold, £5/10/-. 18ct.
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set with pearls and
aquamarine or ruby,
25/-
A. Saunders'
Necklace, set
Aquamarines or
Tourmalines,
Oct. gold, 37/6
15ct., £2/15/-
A. Saunders’
pure double-cut
Diamond Half-
hoop Ring,
18ct., gold,
£7/10/-.
Smaller dia-
monds, £s_
A. Saunders’
red or blue
stone set Ring,
9ct., gold,
10/6.
' I
A. Saunders’
9ct. gold Safety
Tie Pin,
3/6, 4/6,
5/6, accord-
ing to size.
A. Saunders’ Boomerang and
Battalion-color Brooch, any Bat-
talion colors supplied, Oct. gold,
8/6.
g e i ursci s \ rjyMkMA
fJJS
s O
ii a arc
EDZQfI
K
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
I ,9
REMEMBER!
the best raw material
honest manufacture.
will OUTWEAR the
HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED AS
SUBSTITUTES
SEE
'“HORROCKSES”’ 1
ON
SELVEDGE
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND 'FRUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted.
De Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art .of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, 1/3. How to Dance, 1/- posted.
How to Wrestle, 1/3. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2 posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic
Reciter, 1/3 posted. llow to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition. 4/9 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, lOd. ; AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, ‘l/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-. I
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/3. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2.
Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The Yoke,
by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and Diversions
with Cards, illus., 1/3. Beauty’s Secrets, post
free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How to Make
Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
12/6. Australian Miner’s Guide, (simple tests
for minerals, 3/9. Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling
Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-,
post: 1/3. How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1.
Will Power (Personal Magnetism), 1/- posted.
Sasdow’s Book op Strength, 3/6 posted. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 4/3 posted. Mysteries or
Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 12/-. Practical Gas
and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty
(Blatchford), lOd. The Art of Jiu-.Titsu, 9d. &
1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. Britain for
the British, 9d. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How
to train for all Sports, 1/3. Diseases of
Horses, 1/6. French Polishing & Staining, 1/6:
Photography Self-taught, 1/3. How to Make
Sw'eets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with
Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting & Papering,
1/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 12/6.
Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
%
I
ss
HOME CYCLOPEPia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 oases
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows ‘up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain
language, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of
young and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in con-
sulting their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable
interesting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a
very superior guide to the action of men and women both in
and out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a
bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest
sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrivpd
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be nested
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS. P
I«r- BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, &c.,
1/6 posted. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-, posted 1/3.
Camille, 1/6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano,
1/-. Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Gaines), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
from Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor (Cures for all
Diseases), 1/3 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date,
1/6 posted. Speeches & Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new) 5/-
Self-Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master l/S posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Book-keeping, 2/6 Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDoUgall
lopped the Score, & Other Verses i/3
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wavnan’s Engine
Drivers Guide, 5/6 posted. Adventures of
John Johns, 1/6. Decameron of Boccaccio
Heptameron and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted
Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life in Met
bourne, 1/- posted. The Woman of Fire 2/
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more
Compare my pricesvvith others and' save
25 Years.
your cash.
OKLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
i /? 0W i. TO i Make tT p , Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
i/o posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/3. Sappho,
genunie, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
.iilford s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
uations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don s Doe ms, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
l/o. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 posted. Lovers' Letter
\\riter I/-. all About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
nt - w !'-?. f:EMASONKY Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
Edition, 1/6 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
o i ' J>? sted ; Tokology, 7/6 past. Ingersoll’s Works,
2/-. How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
*. ® EAD AND Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
- istant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
hennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
iruits of Philosophy, l/ 1 - posted. 100 New Recita-
™ Al ™ Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
vlre, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.. leather bound,
ny price, 16/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
HOOT MAKING AND REPAIRING, 1/3. DYNAMOS AND
llectric Motors, 1/3. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
nound, 11/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
P° st ed. 200 Old-time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
1 aine, posted 9d. WRITE EOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
THE BIG BOOK STORE.
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).


PHILIPPINE DREDGES LIMITED.
'M’OTICE is hereby given that an Interim Dividend
(the Ist) of One Shilling per Share has been
declared due and payable on MOND\Y the Ist
OCTOBEK, 1917.
Transfer books will close at the registered Office
of the Company, Broken Hill Chambers, 31 Queen
Street, Melbourne, and in London at noon on Mon-
day, the 3rd September, 1917.
By Order of the Board,
A. F. SHOWERS, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
JOSEPH TEARE, known as “Jos,” son
of Joseph and Margaret Teare, last
heard of in Collie. West Australia, employed
as Government Horse Boss, and afterwards
as a groom, worked about Worsley. Present
address required or proof of his" death (if
dead). Something to his advantage on
application to
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO. LTD.,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
WILLIAM ARTHUR ALFLAT (for-
merly of 237 Ilowick Street, Leich-
hardt) or any person knowing his where-
abouts is requested to communicate with the
undersigned.
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY,
Solicitors,
Wigram House,
19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN the Estate of ELLEN LOUISA DYER,
late of Paddington, in the State of New
South Wales, deceased, intestate.
FREDERICK WALTER DYER, or any
person knowing the present whereabouts of
the said F. W. Dyer, is requested to com-
municate with the undersigned respecting
the estate of the abovenamed deceased.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Business Notices.
MA*«v J >#«7c
LEARN to
DRAW
“There’s
Money in
the Pen.”
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possi-
bilities of
D r awing—
both as a
p rof ession
and as a
pastime. It
describes in
detail the
Draw ing
Course by
HARRY J. WESTON, Australia’s famous
commercial artist.
It explains the difference between learning
to COPY and to DRAW. It points out
the pitfalls to be avoided by the beginner.
It explains, in clear, concise language what
the Weston Course is, and why Weston
tuition is the most successful.
There’s no reason why YOU could not earn
good money as an artist. The ability to
draw can be acquired if your inclination is
strong enough to follow the scientific prin-
ciples laid down in the Weston Postal Course
of Drawing.
Send three penny stamps to-day for a copy
of this booklet—“THEßE’S MONEY IN THE
PEN.”
The Harry J. Weston
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
16 Waltham Buildings,
24 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Edison “Home"
Phonograph
will add greatly to
your home-happiness.
The Edison
“H om e” Phono-
graph illustrated
possesses both
handsome appear-
ance and tonal
purity. It will
please you, your
family and your
friends, and will
brighten the home
to a remarkable
degree. Wonderful
value. Price
£ll 11s.
Ask tne nearest
Edison dealer for
demonstration, or
write direct for
illustrated cata-
log, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
x OIN up, young man, and you will help
tj to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you a
past middle-age.
Amusements
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
f lv O L I THEAT It E, SYDNEY
PANTOMIME—EXTRAVAGANZA—VAUDEVILLE.
J. C. MACK, supported by a specially-selected
company, in Potted Pantomime, MOTHER GOOSE.
FAVORITE FOLLIES, led by Miss VERA PEARCE.
GEORGE WELCH, DAISY and SYDNEY YATES,
PEGGY PEAT, BILLY REGO, JEAN KEITH,
MABELLE MORGAN, TALLEUR ANDREWS,
NELUSCO and HURLEY, ALVIN and WILLIAMS,
KELLY and DRAKE.
"|" IVOLI THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
ALL SXAI! "VAUDEVILLE.
CAMILLE TRIO, LILY AN AND BOGGS, JOE
REED, CREOLE FASHION PLATE, CLYDE COOK,
GLYNNE and GLEN, THE GLADIOS, RUTH RUDD,
REYNOLDS and WHITE, EDNA MAY FOSTER.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Clt I T EItI O N T HE A T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinges Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have great pleasure in
announcing the Famous English Character Actor, Mr.
CYRIL MAUDE, in his International Triumph,
GRUMPY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
U E It M A ,1 E 8 T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
* * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
DOROTHY BRUNTON’S LAST TWO NIGHTS IN
AUSTRALIA with SO LONG, LETTY.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 1,
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. will produce
THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY'.
LOOK WHO’S HERE.
REOPENING SATURDAY, SEPT. 1,
with
AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
Prices as usual.
11l
T KIANGLE PLAYS AT
' THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overtun
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, slior
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
WISITORS TO SYDNEY.
* An addressed, stamped envelope will bring to
you by return mail a list of current attractions a:
principal Sydney Theatres, etc.
WHAT’S ON? ADVERTISING CO.,
85 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 1.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive, for SIX NIGHTS
ONLY, the Popular Favorite,
THIS MERRY WIDOW.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til E AIRE ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
HATHLENE MACDONE LI,
In JEAN WEBSTER’S Full o’ Smiles Play,
DADDY LONG LEGS.
ING’S THEATRE, M E L B O U it N E.
Sole Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
Shakespeare’s Immortal Comedy,
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.
Popular Prices.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALDAN WILKIE,
in
SEVEN DAYS’ LEAVE.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Majestic theatre. Melbourne.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
BESSIE BARRISCALE
in
BAWBS O’ BLUE RIDGE
and
THE BELOVED ADVENTURESS,
Featuring Kitty Gordon.
Plan at Allan’s.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening, and Matinees Saturday at
2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
LIONEL BARRYMORE in
THE MILLIONAIRE’S DOUBLE.
TAMES WELCH AND EDWARD SASS in
THE NEW CLOWN.
Prices as usual.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICII.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
7boutfit chan at
SOc/enrs §
&
Fine diamonds, set
in platinum,
£B/8/-
Fine diamonds, set
in platinum,
£lO/10/-
Fine diamonds, set
in platinum,
£l2/12/-
Fine diamonds, set
in platinum,
£2O.
FAIRFAX g ROBERTS, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 25 HUNTER STREET.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Merit of a“PLUM”
is best appreciated by the man who has tried all other sorts of Razors
before discovering the “Plum” masterpiece. All the science in the
world can't make a keener blade, or one that keeps its edge so long.
Send for a “Plum” Razor to-day.
PRICE 10/6- post free.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS
IMPORTANT.-LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them 1 clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Hough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
FITDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the hrenth harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
FITIIFNTA is therefore regarded'as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
whe?e Poll fi'e l/3 Free sample posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
To Let
MOUNTAIN ATLLA, Medlow Bath, near
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, owner
leaving State will let long term nominal
rental to suitable tenant —6 rooms—wide
verandahs (glassed), completely furnished,
water, telephone, electric light, garden and
orchard, every convenience, close station.
Box 241, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
lousiness Notices.
}
■\
l ?%>'}■ \
k
ABBEY
SHOES
are made on our own exclusive
lasts, and have that smart, made-
to-order appearance that is so
greatly admired.
We illustrate a very smart, All-
Patent Oxford Shoe. Very highest
grade.
32/6 & 40/-
Patent, 35/- & 40/-
In half- and full-sizes and three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between U.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
-
A Tin
of Calox
Free.
No brush and ordinary
dentifrice can possibly
reach, much less elim-
inate, the dead organic matter
and fermenting food particles
that lodge in the crevices of the mouth. In
f
McK
THE OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER,
mechanical operations have given place to
scientific methods. The oxygen that is gen-
erated immediately it is moistened penetrates
to all parts of the mouth. Germs cannot
remain where it goes; food debris, that is
the primary cause of dental disease, and
destructive acids, is eradicated —the mouth
and teeth are purified. Calox is soothing]
and delightful.
Test Calox To=day.
iouth
:hing J
A liberal free sample of Calox
will be forwarded, if you
altaeh your name and address
to Ibis ad., and mail, enclos-
ing two penny stamps to cover
postage, to
GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD.,
Calox Dept., 480 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Calox is procurable at
ALL
LE
CHEMISTS AND
ADING STORES.
F. 30/8/’l7.
/
(S£ML®
UKKJiSW
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER
■i"* n • trt—
*KESSON L ROBBIM


STRENGTH, AND HOW TO GAIN IT.
INSTEAD OF EXERCISES, PATENT
FOODS AND MEDICINES, TAKE
PHOSPHATE WITH YOUR MEALS.
The demand to-day is for men and women
who are strong in every sense of the word —
possessing the physical strength necessary to
endure hardships and fatigue; the mental
strength to grapple with difficult problems ;
the nervous force which endows the body
with vigor and vitality; the will power to
triumph over adversity and turn defeat into
victory. But such glorious strength is im-
possible so long as your nerves are weak
and exhausted, and therefore if you would
be really strong you must first care for your
nerves. Weak, exhausted nerves need food,
and it has been proved in numberless cases
that the only food element they can or will
absorb readily and naturally is phosphate
in the well-known form of bitro-pliospliate,
which most chemists stock in sgr. com-
pressed tablets, so that if you feel your
strength is failing from any cause, you
should get a supply of these bitro-pliosphate
tablets and take one with every meal. Prac-
tically all of the minor ailments afflicting
mankind, as well as many of the more seri-
ous maladies, can be traced to nervous ex-
haustion and lowered vitality, and probably
this explains why such a remarkable im-
provement in the general health is invari-
ably noticeable when bitro-phosphate is
taken as directed, and the nerves are thereby
revitalised and made strong.— Advt.
at
osrt
JBSSSK
JSJgssi
Throat »»
•\\v
nus*
£3*
**
S-HV3
:
s-.SSSg:
□
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Disorders
of Digestion.
Catarrhal, Fermentative, Ulcerative.
Angier s Emulsion exercises soothing, lubricating,
antifermentative effects throughout the entire digestive
tract. That is why it is fo valuable in affections of the
stomach and intestines. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, fermentation,
catarrh, ulceration. It restores tone to all the digestive
functions and it promotes normal healthy action of the
bowels. Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-four years, it has proved its value in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
Send name and address, ad. postage and mention
S.NGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD?! 233 Clarence St . Sydney. N^W.'
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, August 1, 191 <•
Appointment of Superintending Civil
Engineer—Henderson Naval Base.
A FULLY-QUALIFIED Civil Engineer is
required r +\- the position of Superin-
tending Civil Engineer of the _ extensn e
works in progress and projected in connec-
tion with the Henderson Naval Base, Cock-
burn Sound, Western Australia. _
The projected works comprise heat}
breakwaters, deep-water quay-walls, exten-
sive excavations and reclamations, extensn
dredging and Floating Docks. ~
Applications are invited from Ci
Engineers who have had experience i
heavy Engineering Works and the nianag
ment and control of men. Only those ''
have had this experience and have ne
responsible positions will be considered.
The salary will be £750 per annum ana
residence, the salary rising by annual IDC
ments on approved service to £9OO P
annum. ' ...
Applications, stating age and giving tu
particulars of training and experience a
qualifications, and enclosing copies of te
monials of which not less than two njus ,
recent, should be addressed to the 5j a ,
Secretary, Navy Office. Melbourne, and a -
livered not later than 3rd September, 1*
Applications to be endorsed, “Apphcat
for Superintending Civil Engineer/’
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy-
POLITICAL
POINTS
If we had only been as shy of the Yankee
I.W.W. shirk system as we are of the Yankee
Taylor work system there wouldn’t have
been any trouble.
The Labor wirepullers may not hold the
undated resignation of every well-paid Par-
liamentarian ; but, until the secret union
ballot is restored, they have the undated
resignation of every humble unionist in their
keeping.
Seeing that every Australian politician
who can work the oracle debits the country
with a few thousand pounds for going to
England on alleged public business, Andrew
position is altered to . Why Com-
missioner.
ANOTHER STRAW—THANK GOD!
HE : “Couldn’t think of enlisting now, you
know. They’re coaling the bally trans-
ports with non-union labor.”
The N. S. Wales State Government has a
chance to get back to sanity, and appar-
ently is not going to take it. The Common-
wealth Government has just borrowed- -44
millions from hard-pressed J. Bull to lend
to the States; and Holman is understood to
have done something towards raising another
big State loan in London. Most of Australia’s
present turmoil is due to wild borrowing and
wilder spending, which produced wholly arti-
ficial conditions. Meantime, politicians have
been buying support with loan money ; and
the constituencies have been thus demoral-
ised. And instead of seizing the present
opportunity to get down at once to the hard
facts of life, the Government is coquetting
with the old curse. We shall have to pay
the price in the future as surely as the
country is to-day paying the price of the
same sort of folly committed in the past.
Thus a member of the N. S. Wales
Assembly the other night:—
Is it a fact that the Government, taking advan-
tage of the miners being on strike, intends to work
the coal-mines with black labor?
It the intention was to ask whether “black”
labor was to be employed the question was
legitimate enough. If the object was to
find out whether there was a scheme hatch-
ing to put brown brother on the job the
HIS COUNTRY.
THE DEVIL: “You’re wanted! Your
country needs you.”
question was merely a waste of time. The
Government could have no such intention,
because it could not get such labor, or if it
could the Commonwealth law would have to
be turned upside down before it could be
employed. But as the question has been
raised, it is a proper time to ask whether
Labor still believes in a White Australia.
In theory presumably it does. The plank
is in its platform, and whenever the ideal
is mentioned it is mentioned as a matter of
course. But it is a tragic error to take it
as a matter of course. Neither the Labor
party nor any other party will achieve a
White Australia by supporting it merely
with its mouth. Speeches won’t keep this
country white. Development is the one thing
that will do it—and development is merely
another word for work intelligently directed.
That being so, what is Australian Labor
doing to-day to keep Australia white?
“Rimu” knows how to do it: —
The extent to which strikers and
their wives are using trains and trams
which they pleasantly describe as
“scab” and eating meat which is pro-
claimed “black” suggests a Gilbertian
method of dealing with the insane busi-
ness. Let any person who goes out on
strike to hold up any public conveni-
ence be prohibited from making use of
it during the period of the strike and
for 12 months afterwards. There would
be no victimisation about this. The per-
son who says “Let the public walk and
be damned to them!” could have no
grievance when he was compelled to
walk himself. Neither could the man
who cut off the public light have any
kick if an ill-used community com-
pelled him to go to bed in the dark.
Similarly, people who block food sup-
plies ought in reason to do without
food themselves. The spectacle of a
lot of striking slaughtermen turned
vegetarian would be a wholesome one ;
but the finest object-lesson of all would
be provided by those immoral persons
who blocked the transport of beer.
Wearing the year-long badge of thirst,
they would hang sorrowfully about the
corners of joy, no man daring to
moisten the tip of their tongue. It
would be a holy world and thoughtful
by the time the new scheme had
worried through a strike or two.
Because Hughes was too busy winning the
war by handing over the metal business of
Australia to a few rich people and Pearce
was too busy winning it by blinding the
people to the size of the job they had in
hand, the Commonwealth Labor Government
allowed two years to go by without passing
any law taking for the' nation the war
profits that a few individuals were making.
When the Labor party burst, nothing was
still done by the Makeshift Ministry. Now,
when Bigjohn Forrest has pushed the matter
forward, over three years after the war
started, there is naturally such a howl against
collecting tax on made so long ago
that the Treasurer has carved out the first
H months- of -the war-time and proposes to
collect the tax only from July 1, 1915. As
a matter of fact, some of the wickedest war
profits made at all were made during that
period; for prices of foreign goods bought
at low pre-war prices were then rushed up
outrageously. But in scores of cases those
profits have been divided long ago, and the
shares, interests or other property have been
sold; so that, through that muddling which
marks almost everything that Hughes has
anything to do with, the people who got
away with the profits won’t have to pay a
tax.
The much-talked-of Coalition between
“Liberals” and “Nationals” in South Aus.
is still not fixed up. And as. the weeks go
by the less is the chance of its being fixed
up at all. The offer of Peake to throw over-
board three of his own crew and take in
three of Vaughan’s, seems to hold good still;
but the other side wants it to imply an
agreement not to contest each others’ seats
at the general • election which may come
almost any moment, and must come next
March—-unless the life of this Parliament
can be prolonged, which is not likely. Also
the present Government has appointed Noel
Webb, S.M., as a Commission to investigate
the land-purchases of Vaughan’s Govern-
ment ; and there is an obvious difficulty in
Government and ex-Government sitting on
the same Ministerial benches while one lot
is practically on its defence. A newer
feature is that many of the National men
who were lately and claim still to be Labor
men, are restless at the idea of any alliance
with Liberals. Old John Verran is a typical
example. Many Liberals are about equally
restless at the idea of any alliance with
Labor. In all this murk one thing is clear.
If the Liberals and Nationals combine there
will be either a new Radical party or a new
Conservative party—perhaps both —or a
wholesale reversion of ex-Labor Nationals
to the Labor party.
The N. S. Wales Arbitration Court last
week cancelled the “industrial” registration
of various striking unions. But this doesn't
mean that the unions are no longer regis-
tered as trade unions. Under the N. S.
Wales law a trade union may be a trade
union and still not be registered
to enjoy the benefits of the Arbi-
tration law. What happens when
the second registration is cancelled
is that the union cannot come into
Court to enforce an award or apply
for a new one. So in cancelling
the registration the Court says in
effect: “Well, strike if you like,
and win that way if you can ; but
you shall not play with a double-
headed penny.”
“5.8. T.” : Two brothers forfeited
two selections comprising 2560
acres on the Upper Clarence
(N.S.W.), being unable to make a
living out of them. These have
been surveyed into 400-acre blocks,
on which inexperienced Billjims are
to take their chance! It would be
bad enough in any case to ask Bill
to struggle with 400 acres of coun-
try from 1280 acres of which the
original experienced selectors could
not make a living ; but it is more
disgraceful in this instance be-
cause, not far away, there are
7000 acres of extremely rich allu-
vial flats still occupied as a cattle-
run. All over the country, I
believe, it is the same: areas for
which no profitable use can be
otherwise found are being pushed
on to Bill wherever possible. Find
out what almost any country bank-
manager is doing with the hope-
less blocks that have been on his hands for
years.
Bar well, the young lawyer who has become
Attorney-General of South Aus. in his first
session in Parliament, is making a bid to
get that crowd of enemies which is supposed
to be the mark of a strong public man. The
stand he made in the Assembly over the Six-
o’clock Closing Bill set the teetotal crowd
against him; now he has challenged the
hotelkeepers who evade the Act. He says
that 1079 men were counted fentering a single
hotel in a Week during prohibited hours, yet
the signalling code was so good that the
police found nothing wrong whenever they
entered :
The law is being flagrantly flouted. I, as admin-
istrator, am being flouted, and I should be unworthy
of the office I hold if I allowed things to remain at
that. If I do not take action it will be said that
what I set out to do cannot be done. It can be
done. It is now the law-defying publicans and myself
for it. The public need have no fear or doubt about
the result. Illegal trading by publicans will be
stopped, and I undertake to stop it.
And the Adelaide wowsers are rubbing their
eyes and asking, “Is Saul also among the
prophets?”
One aspect of the Melbourne lumpers’
strike is strictly humorous. Originally
the lumpers refused to assist in exporting
foodstuffs until prices locally were reduced.
Apparently this sort of half-strike was no
good, so they insisted on having one centra:
“picking-up point”—a place where they can
be engaged—instead of the previous * half-
dozen points along the wharves. This bein'-'
refused a whole-hog strike ensued. The
point of this “picking-up place” joke is that
the men are paid Is. 9d. per hour for the
time occupied in going from the place of
engagement to their job. in the case of the
Railway Department’s work at Port Mel-
bourne this payment sometimes reaches 5s
per day per man, though many of the lump-
ers live at the Port. The shipping com-
panies pass all these charges on to the con-
sumer —they have to, there is no option-
vet the lumpers originally struck over the
'high cost of living! Now rhey are asking
2s. 6d. per hour, which will, of course, re-
duce the cost of living still further!
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
has a serious charge to answer in regard to
the non-production of linseed. Australian
linseed-oil mills are importing now about
£25,000 worth of seed per month—£3oo.ooo
a year. Practically all of it is used in N.
S. Wales. And there is every prospect of a
far greater quantity being required in the
future. Yet so far the Department has done
not a thing to have the seed grown here and
the money and employment kept in the
country. On the other hand, it seems to
have steadily discouraged anyone who talked
about the possibilities of adding this new
rural industry to the very few- we have
already, and to have done it in defiance of
evidence that the seed grows in. compara-
tively poor land in countries very similar to
our own ; in defiance also of encouraging ex-
periments made at Wagga and Orange. It
has gone even further. Lately Meggitts, the
principal users in Australia, put in a clean-
ing machine to grade seed w-hich they pro-
posed to give away to people who would grow
experimental plots; whereupon the Depart-
ment demanded a guarantee that no seed
should be thus disposed of. Failure to com-
ply, it w-as intimated, would mean refusal
to allow any seed at all to be landed. It
is bad enough that this Department fails so
dismally to encourage agriculture; it be-
comes intolerable when, through blank igno-
rance, it discourages the very thing it is
PUTTING HIM TO THE TEST.
BENEVOLENT OLD GENT: “Man, my heart is
full of gratitude to the likes of you!
How can I ever repay you for what
you’ve done for me?”
BILLJIM : “Well, buy us a pint, and I'll give
you a written receipt in full settle-
ment.”
supposed to foster. In this matter of linseed
the Department's failure to develop the in-
dustry means not only that the oil mills have
to import; it means also that flax mills
don’t exist. And because they don’t exist we
import most of our binder and other twine,
our tow, our -crash towelling, our baggmg
and a dozen other things which we can grow
and make for ourselves as well as anyone
can grow and make for us.
THE NEWEST GRUNDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Vic. Assembly Mr. M. Hannah brought for-
ward a motion favoring the abolition of State
Governors. Mr. Mackey said that if it were known
in Germany that the Vic. Parliament had adopted
such a resolution its significance might be miscon-
strued. /
Be not deceived by sophistry,
This great fact none can blink:
If we pay off the Governor
’Twill snap the final link
That joins us to the Motherland —
And what would Wilhelm think ?
The news in distant Potsdam would
Occasion wildest glee ;
I have no doubt that it would send
All Berlin on the Spree;
And later bn an Iron Cross
For Hannah there would be.
Economy and commonsense
Are outraged while we pay
Six Governors, it is alleged
By some. How little they
Appreciate the vital point:
What would the Kaiser say ?
Here is our chance to strike a blow
’Gainst Wilhelm and his mob,
For of his last despairing hope
The Kaiser we will rob
If we will but agree to keep
Young Stanley in his job.
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


Australian Novels »f Adventure
1/- each- The “Bookstall” Series-1/1 posted
of Australian Books.
ON HIS MAJESTY'S
SEKVIf
UT/fQfk Of
rmsExauENcy
COMMAND
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
by ROY BRIDGES.
An intensely interesting and dramatic
romance of Van Diemen’s Land.
“FOR TURON GOLD,”
by DON DELANEY.
A brilliant Australian goldfields’ tale,
crowded with exciting incidents.
THF, I'lTTlbS ©ON
DELANEY
al
By LOUIS BECKE.
The Famous Australian Writer of South Sea Stories.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,”
“THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS BLAKE.”
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
by JOHN X. CAMERON.
A story of the good old days in the Aus-
tralian bush.
“BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S
COMMAND,’’
by ROY BRIDGES.
“STELLA SOTHERN,”
by I. A. ROSENBLUM.
A novel of exciting adventures in the
Northern Territory.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,”
by DON DELANEY.
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR LAUNCH.’
by ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
SIX SPLENDID BUSH RANG INO BOOKS— 1/- each.
“SHORT-LIVED BUSHRANGERS,”
—by CHARLES WHITE.
“ JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER,”
—by CHARLES WHITE.
“DAN KELLY, OUTLAW,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
“ THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN RANGE,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE DEVIL’S NIGHTCAP,,”
—by LANCELOT BOOTH.
mmb
si
“TOOLS OF SATAN,”
by LANCELOT BOOTH.
One of those thrilling, absorbing novels
that holds the reader’s attention from the
first page to the last.
“SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,”
by A. J. BARRY.
A series of sea stories of great dramatic
strength by one of the most popular of
sea-adventure writers.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or direct
from the Publishers.
Write for Complete Catalogue.
South Sea
Shipmates
My* Atnnif
fCSL-UM
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney
pj^ ,i ' ~ Vo^'"3 u ',in4j,Bjnu«^''puß'', D i4j3ai3''3sno^uii, s a/^", u si»ija"a\i'T'''
11111111111111111111; 11 n n 11111111 m 11111111111111111111 m 11111 ] 11111111111111 i 1111111111 m 111111111111111111111111111111 i 11111111111111111 iT 11 fi 11 ■ 111111 ■ ■ 11 > • ■
Electric Motors
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse— motor is the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
rstmolipugr
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Standard Waygood Hercules, Ltd.,
77, King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co., Ltd.,
William Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
27-31, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
Works Trafford Park. Manchester. England.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD-SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
A SAFE, SURE, AND RELIABLE SPECIFIC FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
The general symptoms of worms are a
tendency to pick the nose and a sensation of
itching in the anus. Other symptoms are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, and grind-
ing the teeth, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infre-
quent in children, and symptoms resembling
water in the head have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
The long round or stomach worm is the
commonest kind of worm from which man-
kind suffers, and is of a light, transparent
color, resembling the ordinary ground worm,
except that the extremities are more sharply
pointed than the ground worm.
Young people are more subject to these
worms than middle-aged or elderly people.
They live in the bowels, and sometimes make
their way into the stomach and throat, caus-
ing sickness, vomiting and choking. Gener-
ally one or two would be the most a person
would be afflicted with, but sometimes a
much larger number is met with. The length
varies from four to eight inches, but young
ones an inch to two inches long are also
found. The first thing to do is to rid the
system of the worms, and Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according to
directions, are an effective remedy for the
thorough eradication of the long round or
stomach worm —the common enemy of the
child, the youth, the middle-aged and aged.
A light, nourishing diet, out-of-door exercise,
and, if possible, a change of air, will greatly
improve the general health.
Threadworms or pinworms are of very
common occurrence in children. They are
very small, from one-sixth of an inch to half-
an-inch in length, and resemble cotton
thread —they are sometimes called seat
worms, and reside in the lower bowels. The
chief symptom of this worm is severe local
itching, restlessness and irritability, and a
frequent desire to urinate, picking at the
nose; loss of appetite and anaemia are also
observed. To get rid of the worms and their
eggs their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according
to directions, on an empty stomach, followed
by a dose of opening medicine, will succeed
where others fail.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are packed in glass tubes, with full directions
in each, and are for sale by chemists and
stores generally at 3s. 6d. per packet, or six
packets for 205., and if unable to obtain
locally will be mailed post free on receipt of
price. Prepared only by The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.;
Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.; and 21
Farringdon Avenue, London, E.C.
NEGLECT.
The healthy man or woman is usually the most careless,
and fails to observe the little indications of coming
trouble. However healthy persons may be, they need
to watch themselves, because a little indigestible food or a little too much food or drink upsets the
whole digestive machine, and unless Nature receives some assistance trouble is certain to follow;
first, perhaps, by a common bilious attack, and then other serious digestive troubles. The sensible
man or woman, however, keeps a sharp eye on the little signs of ill-health and takes a remedy like
Dr Morse’s Indian Root Pills to aid digestion and help Nature over some obstruction caused by
too much food or drink. There is no better remedy for this purpose in this or any other country,
and their ever-increasing use by all classes of the community bears testimony to their high efficiency.
The best advice that can be given is to always have a bottle of these pills at hand, and when the
first indication of trouble appears in the form of Constipation, take a dose. The result is certain
to be effective, and in a simple manner the system is put right again. No remedy at any price is
better or more carefully prepared than Dr. Morse’S Indian Root Pills. They are the
Standard Remedy of thousands; used in the city, town and country with equally good results, and
sold at a price within the reach of all.


Wisdom denounces war-time strikes as
boomerang instruments —the further they
travel the greater the hurt of their return
blow, opineth that spirit of wisdom King
George IV. topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder ooap
LEWIS &WNITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
No razor’s edge has ever
been ground to that ex-
quisitely fine keenness you
get with the hard yet flexible
wafer blade of the
etroppino no h
It took many years to make this per-
fect Gillette blade. But every Gillette
user knows what, a pleasure it has
added to shaving. Take a packet
home to-night. Sold in cardboard
cartons.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Saefty Razor Ltd., London, tng.
TRAP!
HARK
KNOWN THft
wo *lO ©V«
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
anil How to Fee l !
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc..
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The effect of the great uprising of the pro-
letariat about nothing in particular has been calami-
tous; to Sydney suburban racecourses. Also, it has
been a real good thing for the promoters of pony
flutters. The pony flutters nearer to the city than
the full-grown nag. The proceedings can be reached
by tram or boot. To get to the horse events trains
or motor-cars or the rabbit-oh limousine are neces-
sary ; and Rosehill and Warwick Farm are, for all
practical purposes, served only by train. Already
a meeting on each of these courses has been aban-
doned, and the question of what is going to happen
to the next meetings—one at least of which is usually
of some importance—is veiled in gloom. Meanwhile
the pony people are bearing up against increased
patronage with a stout heart.
* * * *
The Maoriland contingent, which pro-
vided Sydney punters with a longi-priced winner a
few weeks ago at Rosehill, repeated the dose on
Saturday at Canterbury Park. Ample, winner of the
Flying, is the property of G. L. Stead, who sent over
The Toff lately. In April last, at Wellington, she
won over six furlongs with Bst. 91b., and since arriv-
ing at Randwick had done at least one very smart
gallop. On Saturday she carried 7st. 81b., and as
the public backed Merriwee down to 2’s and
Heatherbrae to 3’s, bargain prices were going about
the stranger. But that didn’t stop her hopping
away in front soon after the start and leading the
procession home. A nice Ally.
* * * *
There were seven races at Canterbury
Park (Sydney) on Saturday,, and one favorite
arrived. But strikes are no good to Israel, and Ike’s
harvest was materially less than it would have been
with such running under ordinary conditions. Gen-
erally speaking, the prices on offer by the books were
better than the machine yielded. Thus a pound on
each winner would have either extracted £94 from
Ike or £7i 12s. from the tote. But a backer of
seven seconds would with a pound on each have
taken £B7 15s. from the pay-out window. On
seconds there were dividends (on 10s.) of £l3 10s.,
£l5 4s. Od. and £8 16s. 6d. The tote turnover at
Canterbury was £2063; at the pony meeting held
during the afternoon, £2372.
* * * *
English-bred, Maoriland and Australian
horses figure in the nominations for the Chelmsford
Stakes w.f.a., to be run next month, during Tatter-
sail’s Club meeting at Randwick. Stead’s queer-
looking Sasanoff won this race last year and made a
name for himself later on at Flemington. He is in
again this year, and with him are Kilboy, the other
Stead’s Toff, and Kilflinn, who had a win from
Desert Rose in M.L. It looks as if the local moke
may have to hurry up a lot.
* * * *
The alleged mistake by which any Mel-
bourne Cup entrant that wins a w.f.a. race will
incur a heavy penalty shoidd give pause. to punters
who are disposed to back top-weights’ or crack
three-year-olds in “doubles” or straight-out. No-
body knows, not even the owners, whether the
temptation of a rich, easy-won stake may not be
too strong in October for even a Cup favorite to
resist. The dead-bird in hand for a w.f.a. event is
worth two future handicap chances.
* * * *
Horse-owners south of the Murray have
heen wondering whether the strike is going to let
them get the nags through to the Spring meeting at
Randwick; also whether if they arrive they will get
them back again in time to be of any use at Caul-
field. Wherefore there have been some alterations in
the odds market and much speculation as to whether
the immediate, mission of some horses may not have
been altered. For instance, Court Jester, who has
ruled as a warm favorite for the Metropolitan, was
suddenly backed early in the week for Caulfield,
where he is much less favorably handicapped than in
the Sydney event. But it may all be a jest.
* * * *
The 14.1 handicap run at Rosebery
(Sydney) on Saturday was one of the best pony races
seen for a long time. At the word “Go” Lady Lid-
dell and Careymoore, a pair of greys, cleayd out
from the field, and at the straight . entrance were
level, with everything else hopelessly beaten. Up
the running they came, with F.vans and Porter riding
all they knew. Just on the post Careymoore appeared
to have the race won, but the lady put up a supreme
effort and made a dead-heat of it. As the owners
could not agree to divide a run-off was necessary.
After a spell of about 20min. the pair took the track
again. Careymoore was favorite this kick, mainly
because he had 481 b. less weight. Up to the Leger
it was the first race over again. Then the weight
told its tale, and the favorite landed the bacon. It
was in keeping with these happenings that the sires
of the dead-heaters should be Merv (imp.) and
Moorefield —-the two most successful dads of ponies
in the State.
*■ * # *
“Nemo” : Though it seems very little use
protesting against the manner in which the totalisa-
tor is misused on unregistered courses, it may be
worth remarking that on Wednesday at Ascot
(Sydney) the machine was still open and doing
business on the third division of the Flying Handi-
cap while the race was being run, and the windows
were not closed until Clanfera, the winner, had
passed the Leger-stand, a furlong from home, with
a commanding lead. He was one. of the leading
division right through. Is it any wonder the public
squealed ? Accidents like this certainly do the
machine no good.
Charlie Barden, the jockey who was picked
up out of the smash at Canterbury Park (Sydney)
a month ago with a fractured skull, is out of hospi-
tal. But the youngster wants a long rest. The
“Baron” Brown horses running at Randwick Spring
meeting will be ridden by Bracken.
* * * *
The Grand National Hurdles in S. Aus.
was won unexpectedly by Westendale, which rural
name is really an allusion to the stuff made by the
S.A. Brewing Co., of which his owner, A. E. Nott,
is manager. The same owner won the same event,
also unexpectedly, last year, with Hobgoblin. The
dividends this time were £l9 Is. on the winner,
13 19s. on the second. Westendale was bought
in Sydney, but is Maoriland-bred (by Birkenhead).
He is the horse that lately paid the record dividend
of over £lBO for a second place.
* * * *
The committee of Tattersall’s Club in
Adelaide has been formally attacked by a section
of the members on the most thoroughly unexpected
charge that ever affected a club committee—-the
charge that it had not raised the price of drinks.
The complaining section, headed by S. J. Jacobs, the
chairman who has just resigned, thought that the
club should not undersell the hotel bars, which have
had to raise their charges for spirits; but a large
and excited meeting finally agreed by 70 votes
to 56 to leave things as they are.
But then everybody quarrels about everything
in Adelaide just now. H. P. McLachlan, the new
chairman of Tattersall’s, has devised a new starting-
machine intended to give each horse a kind of sep-
arate stall and an equal chance. Sporting writers
have mostly hailed it as a splendid idea; but 56
licensed jockeys have weighed in with a formal pro-
test against its introduction, and the S.A.J.C. has
asked starter and stipendiary stewards to report.
* * * *
Murrangong, winner of the Grand
National at Adelaide on Saturday, is the first Mal-
ster to win over big timber.
“Punter”: It was not the Australian
hurdle-race winner Polygamist that went so close
to having his wings singed on the steamer Benalla,
which caught alight in mid-ocean, but a fellow-
traveller named Nareisse and a female companion,
Lady Fariman. The Caulfield horse did not reach
Australia until several months later, and, by the
way, he was not landed without excitement. It
was a Saturday afternoon, and just as the hand-
some Britisher was somewhere in mid-air, with
trainer McCann hanging on by almost his finger-
tips to the horse box, the lumpers cried “smoke-oh,”
and, of course, everybody stopped. A little manipu-
lation, however, soon landed the racer in Australia.
Nareisse and Lady Fariman also belonged to Wootten,
and journalist Moody, of Adelaide, had an interest
in them. Lady Fariman flew over three hurdles at
Caulfield in great style one day, and the jockey,
thirsting for more, attempted to go another round.
She fell. The anxious but unfortunate boy broke
his collar-bone, the mare her neck. Nareisse,
reckoned by Wootten to be the best two-mile hurdler
in England, got so fed-up with human kindness dur-
ing the voyage that trainer McCann could never
reduce him to a racing state, and had difficulty to
keep him on four sound legs.
* * * *
One Maoriland outfit fell heavily into the
soup on Saturday. It consisted of the hurdler
Luperino, the nag’s owner Charters and the jockey
Foreman. The scene of the mishap was Williams-
town (Vic.). Luperino had won at Moonee Valley a
fortnight before, and a week later ran fourth on the
same course. On Saturday he was produced at
Williamstown, and was well in the betting at s’s and
6's. He ran fifth, the winner being Tenacious, also
from M.L., ridden by E. J. Rae, who figured in the
book as trainer of both horses. At Moonee Valley
Tenacious finished third the day Luperino won. On
Saturday she started a firm favorite at 5 to 2. The
stipes came to the conclusion that Luperino, Charters
and Foreman could do with a couple of years’ holi-
day. Rae, it transpired, was not the horse’s regular
trainer. When he came over with Waimai and
Tenacious the other horse was brought along and
joined the party, but was trained by Charters.
Wherefore Rae was not granted a holiday. Beyond
explaining that the sentence was for “dishonorable
practice” nothing more was revealed. Another of
those incidents in which the alleged offence is
shrouded in gloom, for no apparent purpose. The
proceedings in all such cases should be laid bare.
First Principle, who handled welter
weights better than any other horse racing round
Sydney, seemed to have lost his form when he went
off to Bananaland a few months ago. But it was
only a rumor. He had list. 131 b. hoisted aboard
for a seven-furlongs trip at Brisbane on Saturday,
and the local punter was so certain he was a
back-number that they laid 5 to 4 “on.” They
cashed in, too, the l|cwt. arriving at the right end
of the field.
The Maoriland ’chaser El Gallo was
found dead in his box the other day at Wellington.
He has gone where all the honest nags go. He twice
annexed a big Auckland double —the G. N. Steeple
and Hurdles—and that is the kind of thing only
done by champions, and then not very often.
“B.B.”: Talk of old-time cheap-jacks
recalls a thing that used to puzzle me. One of the
princes in the business in Maoriland sang a song
whose chorus was:—
“Could I only back a winner
What a different man I’d be!
I d spare enough to share enough
To show my charity.
I’d be like Plunger Thompson,
And give a champagne dinner
To all my friends who’re here to-night—
Could I only back a winner.”
I gathered that “Plunger Thompson” was a notorious
Australian sport, but I’ve never been able to track
his pedigree or performances. Who was Plunger
Thompson? Joe, the Leviathan, who made the pot
over Don Juan in ’73? Or was there another to
whom the description “Plunger” could more truth-
fully be applied?
* * * *
“Con Drew”: Cohen hadn’t hooked a bet.
Gradually, at the prompting of Isaacs, who was
partnering him in the bag, he rose from 2 to 1 der
fieldt to 5 to 2, and, finally, in a burst of agony,
soared to 3 to 1, then to 7 to 2. The result was
astonishing. Several sharpshooters who had been
hanging round with a bored look suddenly sprang
towards him. But Isaacs got in first. “I 11 have
you.” he yelled, thrusting himself between the punt-
ers and his surprised partner. “Seffen pounds ter
two Spotlight, and I’ll put der monish in. He
produced two notes and handed them across. Cohen
took the money, and placing it in the bag waved the
punters away. “That’s all I vant,” he announced.
A wild gang dashed up led by a repellent-looking
person in a faded bowler. “Spotlight?” Queried its
leader breathlessly. Cohen shook his head, and the
gang dashed off. Presently some more punters torna-
doed past. “What price Spotlight f” they questioned.
“Aind't there no other horth in ther bletthed
raith?” wailed Cohen. “Vat’s th’ matter with em
all?” He hailed an adjoining bookmaker Vat
brice are you bettin’ Spotlight?” he queried. The
fielder shook his head. “No money,” he answered.
“Have a look at the seratchin’ board. Cohen did
as directed, and was enlightened. Out of an original
field of eight only three remained. Turning he faced
his partner. “That Spotlight must be er pretty
goodt horse, Isaacs, aind’t it,” he observed. Veil,
answered Isaacs, “he can bead them other two
horses that’s left in. I know that.” Hm! said
Cohen. “How much haf ve laid agen him? Only
that seffen poundt ter two you laid me, chuckled
Isaacs. “Is that all?” remarked Cohen. “Only seffen
poundts ter two ? Veil, veil! I neffer let a paltry
bedt like that stop me, Isaacs. Book me seffen
ter two der same horse and then ve knock off.
* * * *
“F.W.C,”: There’s an old mare at Glen-
reagh (N.S^W.) —or was until a few days ago, when
she was shot—with a record. Fifteen years ago R.
Play ford bought her, six years old, for £l. She
had 14 foals, nine of whom are doing duty on the
farm, and others have been sold for £162. The
last of the family is a fine young colt six months
old. The old lady was barely 14 hands high, but her
progeny took prizes in the show-ring, in big classes,
“best draughts,” as yearlings and two-year-olds.
* * * *
“Karee”: Mention of that Calcutta sweep
prize of £66,666 (B. 16/8/’l7) sets me wondering
whether they still hold in Buenos Avres the Christ-
mas Day Race Sweep. A ticket cost 20 pesos, and
the drawer of the first horse was loaded with
£BO,OOO. Prior to the war there was a sweep every
year in France, at 20 francs a ticket, first drawer
£40,000 cash. The last winner was a woman who kept
a barracks canteen. As she was a thrifty woman this
sudden rush of affluence didn’t go to her head. She
insisted on all her soldier debtors squaring what
they owed her before she shouted. The lady also
added a pile to her sudden windfall by publishing
the love-letters sent her from all over the world by
absolute strangers.
* * ♦ *
There was a notable scatter of trotting
horses in Yankeeland recently, amongst those that
came under the hammer being The Harvester, one of
the most famous light-harness animals on earth. He
is credited with having put a mile behind in 2min.
lsec. He changed hands for £6OOO.
• • • •
Billjim hears some queer stories from
home. The Bulletin last mail received about 175
letters of amazed protestation from men in Egypt and
Palestine. They had just been leading a cable
message from Australia in an Egyptian paper to the
effect that returned soldiers had started an agitation
for the abolition of the V.R.C. and A.J.C., and the
writers want to know whether the end of the world
has arrived or whether they ought to settle down for
good in the Desert and start training camels to leap
through the eye of a needle.
* * * *
When .Tames Park, Tassy’s oldest in-
habitant, was only 101 (he was open to lay long-
odds just before he died the other day that he was
102) he bumped against the church door or some-
thing one night, and appeared with two black eyes
next morning. An inquisitive crony turned up, as
usual. “Ahl” chortled Jimmy, “next time I have a
scrap, I'll take on someone older than myself.”
* * # *
“Matey”: Major Horace Kingsmill,
D. 5.0., who has gone West in France, was a Sydhey
hockey enthusiast. In peace days he was sec. of the
Howitzer Battery Hockey Club. That club (and
battery) took up all of his spare time. Ilingy was
a military enthusiast first, a hockey-ite second; he
would talk guns by the hour and sandwich in
between.
» * * •
Vie. tennis topnotchers are freely starred
with the Military Cross. Among the winners are
Jeff Strachan, J. G. Burnell, E. F. Herring, A.
Mitchell and W. M. Braithwaite.
“Peg-Leg” : For two years Francis Birtles
has been talking about crossing Australia by aero-
plane (B. 23/8/’l7), and at latest he had bought a
machine and was trying it in Victoria. His original
intention was to make a flight from Port Augusta
to Broome, but the chances of a spill in the vacant
North-West caused him to abandon that idea.
“G.N.”: Among the champions past and
present my vote goes to Stan V r ickham as the best
place-kick (Union or League game) Australia has
produced. Dally Messenger was certainly a
wonderful hooter, and put up some extraordinary
performances, but for consistent kicking, from all
angles, on wet or dry grounds, and taking into con-
sideration the difficulties under which a kicker
labored from the absurd Union rule of another player
placing the ball and the opposing forwards charging
like money-lenders, the wriggly player of a decade
and more ago is entitled to go up top.
* » * *
C. Fraser (Balmain), who topped the
score-sheet with 67 points (seven tries and 23
goals), was the most noticeable all-rounder in N. S.
Wales Rugby League this season. Last year he also
headed the list with 95 points (nine tries and 34
goals). Wally Messenger (Eastern Suburbs),
who was close up to Fraser with 58 points, headed
the 1914-15 statistics with 73 points. Harold
Horder, the fastest sprinter in the League, annexed
17 tries —the best individual effort of the year.
* * * *
A. Oxford, the hefty South Sydney for-
ward, put a flash in the Kangaroo v. The Rest of the
Rugby League game on Saturday. Besides scoring a
try, Oxford left-footed four goals—ll out of The
Rest’s 20 points. In premiership football Oxford
only booted one goal for his club during the season,
mostly because of opportunities being given to less
reliable feet. The Kangaroos played as well as age
allowed; but the younger generation lasted
longer and won comfortably by 20 to 13. The fix-
ture attracted about 13,000 barrackers, and the
admission money was passed along for patriotic
purposes.
* * » »
The much-wrangled-about Australian pro-
fessional ped. championship match between A. B.
Postle (Q.) and Gerald Taylor (Vie.) is now booked
for argument at Melbourne next month. The effort
to stage the match in Brisbane fizzled out. Articles
have been signed for a 100yds. event for a purse of
£ 600.
* * « *
“R.E.P.”: The Holy Land has just got
word that Les Darcy has died in America The
news was a big bump to most here, including those
who heartily denounced him for leaving Australia in
such a way and at such a time. But behind it all
the while was a sneaking affection. You can’t be
an Australian and not love an Australian champion
Around the camp we agreed that Australia has been
an unlucky place for world’s champions to be born in.
What a trinity—Searle, Keiran and Darcy t Yes I
know that Trumper and Dally Messenger lived long
enough to come of age; but note that there were no
competitions, man to man, in their respective sports.
•n eS w£ ar 7 a fair little wad—but no
W 1- -therefore the cash goes to the next of kin
and Edward Darcy, the father, is unnlvi™ to th ;
Supreme Court to be appointed administrator.
A pair of bantams were on exhibition at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday—Jimmy Taylor nf
W.A., and Harry Holmes, a Sydney-sider—and thev
performed with great earnestness. Tavlor \vl
doing fine up to the 12th collision; then he began tl
lose his steam, and Holmes, delivering a heavv
counter-attack, quickly exhausted the supply i/
the 18th clash James was done to a turn Ever/
thing but his courage had gone. Wherefore’ the law
and Arthur Scott simultaneously terminated the un
pleasantness, and Henry went, away to put his clothes
on.
* * « %
Eugene Yolaire obliged again at Brisbane
Stadium on Saturday, Matty Smith being the opnosi
tion party. There were only a few chapters, but each
was chockful of slapbang and general upheaval
Volaire boxed in to the top of his form, teaching the
erratic Matthew the value of a wallop placed without
frills on the right spot. As early as the fourth
clash it was evident that the Frenchman was plot
ting the downfall of Mr. Smith with eveey possi
bility of success. He pulled it off in the seventh
just after the Smith family had made a most earnest
effort to assert itself. That hook of Yolaire’s cer-
tainly seems to be impregnated with ether.
Eric Barbour, who smote a merry 101
(out of 242) against the Army and Navy in Eng-
land last week, first got into the limelight with 356
for Sydney Grammar against C. of E. Grammar in
1909. Later, in premiership cricket with Sydney
’Varsity, he scored .highest aggregate (778, average
97.25) in 1912-13, and was second to Warren Bards-
ley in 1914-15 averages with 55.50 for 10 innings.
Barbour’s hits in 1913-14 inter-State cricket yielded
an average of 61.00. It runs in the family. Eric’s
dad, G. P. Barbour, was a great all-rounder with
Sydney ’Varsity, and one of the pioneer N.S.W reps,
on the Australian Board of Control.
In the Inter-State test stake decided at
Corowa last week Brown Hawk, winner of two
Waterloo Cups, was defeated for the first time since
he has been trained by Tom White. The Victorian
team for the stake were: Brown Hawk, Anxious Pen-
nant, Jumbunna King and All Comedy. The N.S.W,
dogs were Corsair (imp.), Achieved, Salonica and
White Verse. The inclusion of White Verse in the
team had caused a lot of quarrelling amongst the
selectors, some of whom were of opinion that she
was not class enough. However, she was put into the
team when it was found that Beauty Spot was not
available, and in the first round she was the only
N.S.W. dog that got a flag. At that stage it looked
as if Victoria, with three dogs to one N.S.W. animal
left in, had the champion ribbon safe. In the next
round White Verse downed Anxious Pennant and
qualified to meet Brown Hawk in the final. The
pair were well slipped to a strong racing hare.
White Verse led the Victorian by three lengths, and
after a little work had been done drove in and killed.
Whereupon there was great excitement. White Verse
is the first N. S. Wales animal to win the stake.
“The Colonel”: Why do eels so strictly
fast on moonlight nights? Recently I fished Lake
Elingamite (Vic.), which abounds in the delicacy,
several times a week for a couple of months,
but never once got a nibble by moonlight. Once,
with three others, from sundown till sun-up, we
tried every part of the lake, and although using 18-
carat tackle and the choicest white grubs, we caught
nothing. On the outward voyage we “set” 20 baited
lines, which were also neglected. Subsequently, on
a very dark, cloudy night, a fresh north wind blow-
ing, with one mate, and using the same tackle and
bait, in less thaiv two hours I hauled in 751 b. of
lovely silver eels ffb to 5111). Incidentally, only eels
reside in this lake, and they must breed there
because Elingamite has no connection with the sea,
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
“Dr. Lang’s Church” in Sydney has just had its
93rd anniversary. The foundation-stone was laid in
1824 by the then Governor, Sir Thomas Brisbane,
who was a strict Presbyterian, but later on quar-
relled with his tempestuous pastor. Lang’s great
hobby was the Australian College; for this he im-
ported teachers, lay and clerical, from Scotland. For
Lang everything had to be Scotch; Scotch masons
had even to be imported for the erection of the
College buildings in Jamieson-street. The land on
which these premises were erected was part of the
estate of John Jamieson, who opened up the street
in 1831 and sold the frontage. Before he had paid
a shilling for the land the doctor had built two
houses (now demolished), and after 10 barren years
Jamieson threatened to seize the two for the amount
due on the land. In addition there were heavy debts
on the College buildings and for purposes connected
therewith. In the circumstances he was obliged to
dispose of his own personal property, which included
his late father’s grant of 2000 acres at Bong Bong
and Sutton Forest (for which he received £l5OO a
fourth of its value) and the buildings now known
as Petty’s Hotel. The College was closed in 1853,
and in the end politics and public spirit left Lang
a very poor man. On his death in 1878 the Govern-
ment offered “to do something for the family,” but
the offer was declined —almost indignantly. A
brother of the “old doctor” is buried under the
pulpit in Scots’ Church; and the old Lang family
pew has been left as it was.


Why don’t YOU have
Perfect Health?
Nature intended you to be strong’, healthy and vigorous.
If you neglect to exercise both your seen and unseen muscles
—if you fail to strengthen your lungs, digestive organs, etc.,
you must expect to pay the penalty and have indifferent
health. It cannnot be otherwise.
But if you wish to enjoy perfect health —to become fit,
strong and well developed, as Nature intended you to be, then
you must have correct and sufficient exercise.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will be the means of giving you renewed healtli and strength.
You will find my exercises! both beneficial and enjoyable
pastime, and will look forward to the time when you have
to do them. You will find the benefits very rapid. The
deep-breathing exercises included in my Course will build
up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen your
lungs, and make you breathe in a natural way.
The exercises you receive will be those most suited to your
individual physique—just as the particulars you furnish
tell me you require.
My booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-Culture,”
tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should like to‘send
you a copy. Just write your name and address across this
advertisement and post it to me. I will know what you
mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. Iv. (Snowy) BARER,
“ The all-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
673 BELMONT BUILDINGS,
SYDNEY.
I*o
Tanks
a o/r
POPI/lAft
THE ENEMY
OF BRITISHERS’
ENEMIES.
I.:.
" THE SPIRIT'
OP THE WAR
ill
v\\tf
w V'
-
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
Catalogue '' D/* with Pleasure ,
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
ptV.
LTD.
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
Aus ?**UAH
•*Australian Glory ”
Egyptian Cigarettes.
Just Landed
Another Shipment of these
Choice Cigarettes, the
product of Nestor Gianaclis
Ltd., Cairo.
We were fortunate to land this shipment at the old price, consequently the price is
as usual, viz.:— .
8/6 per 100. Postage paid.
Why not try a packet of 10? Forwarded anywhere for 1/-
A. Kebblewhite, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House,**
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
&
I
Business houses using Motor Vehicles in the trans-
portation of their merchandise are adopting
NATIONAL
BENZINE
i" aSiHiS
“National” gives the same service of perfection with EVERY yp
YOuTan effect big savings in YOUR by adopi
ing the “National” Spirit as your standard fuel.
Obtainable all Oarages
a n
Storekeepers.
N
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
r*- X
Wv*;|T7*X xßliSS?*'
¥&'■*«
m
*-■.:
Sf-y-'Crc
-. •*-
fersb <:i r
wa
s*&iß •' •* T'JJafM ViZ • < -
?:< :.?;'i.y;V
r- nflftji?*
S:*FsJ<y>>
>;.'
i*
&&
'■lf.
<*Ps<
. -h'**?
w.
•>“;c:
/SV;
jj-. •(!?>■•
ssisssß
•A.’
v: V
wm
n
»@?
ra>
S,
\
s r y
"@i
aSE
• ; *Jstf
4*y , /ir •
>' .♦-■ >’/•
t&B&ag*
<• V/V' 'i 1
a'?;
iZtfS
*
WSfjw
. -v'
.’.' , :U: t'. I '-'ital
II ; >:=*;. '. '.--V. j- tl '-.' c - '/ '. / '‘ V.-v ''■ *
/ * ;''/'
s®! v; 5/
iww#
w¥S' u --<\..
r"7
)?>■:
• Vo •-
; vi\ : . •i\. r ..viv s ;r
i-os-'^g
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting Disorders
r
* K.
Price 2'6 bottle
—ft
n
r
1
m
m,
m
Riding Trousers that will not fit
you perfectly are not worth buying
ANY man who has done only a little Riding knows the importance
of having Riding Trousers and Breeches absolutely correct in
every detail. A little too much room here, not quite enough
there, pockets not in just the right position, not quite enough “rise,
and what endless annoyance and discomfort will result.
The Moral is—Have your Riding Garments made to Order by a Tailoring Firm that
understands horsemen’s needs in this direction. “L.S.” Riding Trousers at 12/6 are
“LINCOLN-STUART” TAILORED TO ORDER
They are made in Military Drills of Supreme Suitability for Saddle Use, and are
guaranteed to give satisfactory service. We have specialised for years in the produc-
tion of Riding Wear. Patterns are Post Free. Now, To-day, is not too soon to write.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. PTY. LTD., Flinders St., MelhourneJ


SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
'pHE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane; or
193 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old andyoung./
Carters
VITTLE
IVER
Purely
Vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Doaa —Sm ill Prlct.
GENUINE must bear signature
CiQnak
V<)u take it jusl
like that—
For Sore Throats,
Colds, Influenza,
etc.
CINNAK acts in a few seconds and
sterilises the germs of disease, so that
the sufferer quickly recovers health.
CINNAK CAN BE TAKEN AT ANY
TIME—ANYWHERE.
Air-tight Tubes I/O All Chemists.
TO MAKE
DELICIOUS JELLIES
USE ONLY
J ELLIPSE
PURE FRUIT JUICES USED
FOR ALL FLAVORS,
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO.,
WATERLOO, SYDNEY,
Agents.
BRISBANE: A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.
MELBOURNE: F. W. HEYMAN.
HOBART: AGENCIES LTD.
ADELAIDE: AGENCIES LTD.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, vvrite to the
Manager, who wiUjtuote^^oajiriceJor^t^^
Wolfit spo-te
can easily
be repaired
wilh JOHNSON’S
PREPARED WAX
V.
Door - Ways Are The Bug-Bear
of finished floors. They receive the hardest
wear, and naturally need most attention.
Busy housekeepers and careless maids allow
the finish to wear entirely off, and soon the
wood gets rough and splintery. It’s a very simple
matter to have beautiful floors if the doorways are
kept well-polished with
A
“The Dust-Proof Polish”
It is splendid for linoleums, too—for it brings out
the pattern and preserves it. Johnson’s Prepared
Wax imparts a beautiful, durable polish—easy to
keep clean. Less than an hour is required for pol-
ishing an ordinary-sized floor, and it may be walked
upon immediately.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempt-
ing. Hot dishes have no effect whatever upon it.
Have Your Piano, Gramophone and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish, Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently re-
moved with Johnson’s Prepared Wax, The Dust-
Proof Polish. Splendid for Craftsman Furniture also.-
JOHNSON
? m i<
BLI MO-W"***
A
Every family has dozens of uses'
for Johnson’s Prepared Wax.-
Keep a tin always on hand for
polishing your
Linos.
Floors
Woodwork
Piano
Furniture
Motor Car
Johnson’s Prepared Wax comes
in the household and larger sizes.
It may be obtained from all
good dealers, or from
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St.. Sydney. N. S. W.
The thing that the people should have
, »een allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING We
still may get a licking. Are you going i 0
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
Carry an ONOTO with you
To the business man, the student, the soldier or
sailor, the wife at home, no better advice can be
given than “carry an ONOTO with you.”
The ONOTO is the British-made Fountain Fen that fills itself in a flash
from any ink supply— cannot leak—and cleans itself in filling. The ink
ow can b e regulated to suit your style of writing. It never scratches,
never splutters, and—may we repeat it?—never leaks.
Price 14/6
nnd upwards. Also
ONOTO Valveless for those
who do not want a Self-Filline
From y *n ei J’ ! r ° m 10/6 u P war ds.
M r r u ,"' i'r ««a
““ =>i«>-iuners, jewellers, and stores
Manufacturers: Thos Df t a ~ o *
259 Bunhill Row, kondouEO at & < ?°- Ud •
York Street, Sydney ’ nC ‘ Mclnaglng A S en ts : Norman Baker & Longhurst,
roTOD®
SELF
FILLING
SAFETY
fountain
PEN
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. (Syd-
ney) was formed about the middle of 1909.
A deficit of £7462 to begin with represented
patents and other goodwill items, plus pre-
liminary exes.: —
Paid Net Pro-
for fit avail-
Good- able for De-
June, Profits. Dividends. will. Reserves, ficit.
1911.. £4,277 lOp.c. = £1983 £ll £2294 £4819
1912.. 4,813 10 „ „ 2870 28 1943 2904
1913.. 6,713 10 „„ 4060 90 2053 941
Reserves.
1914.. 13,056 11J „ „ 7058 129 5998 4928
1915.. 2,540 5 „ „ 3500 40 3928
1916.. 4,230 6 „ „ 4200 25 30 3933
1917.. 3,683 6 „ „ 4200 63 3353
It still doesn’t »look very cheerful; but the
directors are as optimistic as ever: —
Good inquiries for pipes are being received, and
it is hoped that owing to the great scarcity and high
prices of metal pipes, wood pipes will be more exten-
sively used by the Government departments than
hitherto. If wood pipes were used in place of
metal, large quantities of iron and steel would be
liberated for war purposes.
And not for war purposes only, but for use
in many industries in which there can be no
substitute for metal, which industries are
now seriously menaced by the short supply
of iron—especially pig-iron—in Australia.
Six years this co. has been at work, and
there ought to be fairly conclusive evidence
now as to whether it is at all necessary to
use metal for water pipes. If it isn’t it is
a tremendous waste to put it there, especially
in a country of big distances, where cartage
is such an expensive item. Whether every
wood-pipe customer has been satisfied this
paper doesn’t know ; but the co. certainly has
a bunch of testimonials large and flattering
enough to compel the attention of anybody
with water-mains to lay. Meantime, while
the management is persuading people that
the wooden water-pipe isn’t a new’, unproved
thing, profits, as a rule, are poor; they have
averaged under 5 p.c. p.a. during the past
three years. And that is all the poorer
because there is no water in the capital: the
few thousands that were represented origin-
ally by preliminary exes., patent rights, etc.,
have been made good out of accumulated
profits. Capital is £70,000; ordinarily this
is about enough to finance the co., but
lately, owing to shipping difficulties, stocks
were piled up while the chance offered, so
there are now sundry creditors for £26,504.
Still finance is easy enough. A much more
difficult matter will probably be to get con-
tracts in the years of depression—especially
in the construction industries —that are
ahead of us.
* * * *
The Thermo-Electric Ore Reduction Co.,
with works at Luton (Eng.), having pur-
chased several mines in North Queensland,
is applying to the Federal Government for
permission to ship wolfram direct. It de-
clares that while the price of Australian
fholybdenite delivered in London is fixed at
£525 per ton, Germany has been paying
Norway £2OOO, and America is buying at
£lOOO. Considering this. North Queensland
producers want to get as much of the £525
as possible, and cut the middleman out. Most
miners would like to see all ores treated and
refined in Australia, but short of that the
present monopoly, created by Hughes, is
about as popular as Hughes himself.
* • * *
Westralia produced £159,987 worth of
minerals other than gold for the half-year
ended June 30. On that date the total pro-
duction had amounted to a little over 4J
millions sterling. Copper and tin accounted
for over three-fifths.
* * * *
“.T.E.0.” on Australian oil possibilities:—
G. D. Meudell writes (B. 26/7/T7) about oil and
its possibilities in Australia, and suggests boring the
continent thoroughly in search thereof. It would be
a good thing if oil could be found in this country,
but it is useless to spend large sums in drilling with-
out first having reasonable indications. Australia
has many of the geological features which have
accompanied oil in other places, but these features
are not at all a proof of its existence, any more
than granite is a proof of the existence of tin
or osmiridium. Oil is chiefly found in strata of the
tertiary and permo-carboniferous systems-; tin is
almost certain evidence of granite. Without some
surface indications of oil it would be a mere waste
of monel' boring blindfoldedly in the vast areas of
sedimentary deposits that exist all over the con-
tinent. The money could be much better expended
on the development of the proved shale deposits of
N. S. Wales and Tasmania, which are, without doubt,
capable of producing Australia’s requirements in both
fuel and volatile oils.
A couple of years ago, owing to a discovery of
bitumen washed up on the southern and south-
western shores of Tasmania, a mild boom took place
in the State. The Tasmanian Oil Wells Co. was
formed for the purpose of boring land held adjoin-
ing the property owned and worked by the Latrobe
Shale Co., which was at the time under offer to the
Tasmanian Government. A prospectus (copyright by
G. D. Meudell) was issued. This document stated,
among other things quite as amazing, that “to find
oil by boring in Tasmania is a certainty.... It would
not take more than six months to reach the oil
sar.ds... .This is essentially a poor man’s invest-
ment.” Unfortunately for the poor man, the project
was not allowed to mature, because the Federal
Government, upon advice, disallowed the flotation.
Another company was formed and floated to bore for
oil at Bruni Island, near Hobart. Mines Minister
Ogden secured the services of the Commonwealth’s
oil expert to report upon the prospects, and in
his conclusions he stated “that tp bore for petroleum
on the evidence which is available is a waste of
public money at a time when money is required for
urgent national purposes and for legitimate enter-
prise.” However, money was raised from the public
and spent in the search for a gusher, which up to
the present has not arrived. The Minister was
severely criticised by interested persons for interfer-
ing with enterprise, but his action was an effort bo
enlighten investors, and, so far as results have gone,
has been justified. Dr. Wade’s report on the South
Aus. oil wells (where it is recently reported that
“shark’s teeth” have been discovered in the- bores)
was equally definite, and is also so far borne out
by results. Legitimate mining enterprise should be
encouraged, but there are many more promising and
safer directions in which money can be applied than
in blind-stabbing for oil at a time when money is
scarce.


©
A
m
m
mmm
i
©
3k
/3
(
3
■ B i
-
-•-■>
s®?Sfe3
-
s-j
%
< - .
H
s&=;
>
HI
IT IS A BEALE KALOPHQNE-
the musicaf instrument which recreates
the finest efforts ofytheAi&rfds Best
Entertainers. The fuff, rich tone ripples
forth in a flood ofmefody as artistic
andas perfect as thoudh the actual per-
former were in (he room.
Tou wifi enjoy hearind your favourite
artist on the “BEALE KALOPHONE.
Made in many styles.
Bathurst. Orange. Lismore. Newcastle. Goulburn and Wagga.
Victoria : Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs
Tasmania : Williams Bros . Hobart. Maples. Launceston.
So lit b Australia John Evans Ltd.. Adelaide.
beetle
L 7 & C? LTP
333 George St Sydney.
Queensland . 90-92 Queen Street Brisbane
Kent Street. Maryborough Flinders Street. Townsville.
Rockhampton. Sydney Street. Mackay.
Cairns.
Factory :
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE.


um
V
D ■
Suffered for months
from Neuralgia
Other Remedies Failed
Dear Sire,
“1 have been a great sufferer from Neuralgia
for some months past. I had tried nearly
every cure on the market, but without any
effect on me. I purchased one shilling bottle of
Fishers
Phospherine
THE OREST NERVE TONIO
and half the bottle absolutely cured me for 1
have had no return of my complaint since. I
cannot speak too highly of your real cure, and
1 will certainly advise it to any of my friends
who may happen to have Nerve Troubles.
Yours thankfully, E. W. Beer.
For Forty years this remedy
has been manufactured and
sold in Australia. Take it in
cases of Neuralgia, Rheuma-
tism, Indigestion, Headache,
Nervousness and Backache.
All Chemists and Stores.
1/" per Bottle. Four times the quantity, 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W. F.14&.R
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mpars Ear PhflAP many times as efficient
, Lar rnone and powe ,. flll , lg the old
model. Ninety-six degrees o( sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a toucli of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 CiEORQE STREET,
Tel. 891 G City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Go 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
Why Look Old ?
You need not use hair dye to conceal grey hair.
Grey hair adds years to anyone’s appear-
ance. The objections to dyeing the hair are
too numerous and too obvious to mention.
Few people are aware that a simple, old-
fashioned recipe, that can be made up at
home, will quickly turn grey hair back to a
natural color without injuring the hair in
any way. One has only to get two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite from the chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
With a small sponge apply the lotion to the
hair for a few nights and the desired change
will have been neatly accomplished. This
simple formula has given great satisfac-
tion for generations to those in possession of
it.—A pvt. ff!
Price
SS Cv
DARBY AUTO
SUPPLIES
Co PCij.Lt-d
2 '9
Posf Paid
Elizabeth
STREET
MELBOURNE-
Forlick's
. MALTED
-MILK
11l
***** TJ
iasfiSS^
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,
and Malt). Keeps
for years and never
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any
where. Only water,
;\
eeps^
lever 1
■ loses'
l6 i
It needed. In hot climates it
k invaluable.
JOIN up, .young man, and j*ou will hejp
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will bars
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
m
The BULLETIN
STOCK SADDLE
OR
The BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
£6/15/6 without Stirrups
£6/9 6
without Stirrups
without Surcingle.
and
Freight Free for Cash to any port or railway
station in N. S. Wales. Write for Special
Freight Terms to Queensland and Victoria.
Both Saddles are fitted with STIRRUP
LEATHERS and FOLDED GIRTH. PJQ
SKIN SEAT, LONG FLAPS and GIRTH
STRAPS. THE UP-TO-DATE SHORT
PANEL and LEATHER DOWN SIDES. Send
height and weight.
STIRRUPS.
Owing to the scarcity of Stirrups we have
priced Saddles without Stirrups. FOR 5/-
EXTRA WE WILL S'END THE MOST SUIT-
ABLE POLISHED orN.-P. STIRRUPS AVAIL-
ABLE, or SOLID NICKEL for 10'fi EXTRA
RING HEAD BRIDLE, Jin ,12/6; lin., 13/6; Post V.
SADDLECLOTH, 6/6; Post 9d.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
WaltherS Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS,
“ 3 £SSI S’ St’S
SYDNEY.
Ss’*
w*
SS'jS
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able, it really is a “find” in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostock ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostock No.
OqSoo
/
w
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
{
Support the Motherland’s Industries
—and your own Country’s Products
9>
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are manufactured from pure Australasian wool —
in Leicester, England, by workpeople who have
inherited the art from generations of the world’s
best hosiery makers.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Entf _
Aa 60 (f)
'A
9
s
&
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 3, 1917.
V, l iz °' value £650 - 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
•ira I rize, value £2OO. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
RW.i F u rS L PI i?t l ast y ear was won by Mrs. C. Loughton Shipley,
ackheath, N.S.W., f o r the modest outlay of ONE SHILbING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1917.
c - s "lis of Drawing will be advertised in dailv metropolitan
papers on Monday, November 5, 1917. To any person forward-
ing stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the results will be
S°f!l ed - Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or direft
-T- j tT ARTHUR IV. YAGER, Secretary, Eight Hour Committee,
lra des Hall, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability, is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
British Soldier in Egypt: Making a mis-
take, aren’t you ? We should call you a police-
man. ... Groper: Von scramble out of some tight
places by removing your top teeth and lisping. For
i nsta nee :—•
At thcool we have exthamth
At the end of every month :
I don’t know how it ith
But I’m uthually the dunth.
....Stall Boyce: Not your line... .Liles: What’s the
officer and the traitor story all about?. . . .Jentiwallai
You ought to have known that the moss has long
grown over that gag. It’s even been printed in
England. .. .W.F.: Reviewed in B. 21/12/’1G....
Anxious: A mutilation of Sans origine, the French
military cable method of saying “Somewhere.”
G. Whiz: We don’t acknowledge pars.. .. . A.D.G.:
Cannot advise y0u.... Jack H.: Interesting and
many thanks; but we can't help ourselves to the
marmalade... .H.R.M.: Dipping yarn is mere horse-
play round the dad who is asked to carry
all the alleged humor. “Beauty” doesn’t appeal....
M.M.C.: Nothing in it.... Khaki: “Air-Car” doesn’t
work its mirth effectively H.C.: Can’t give an
opinion on a thing we haven’t seen; hut, from your
letter, it isn’t hopeful... .E.J.: It cost us 2d. to
bury the landlady G.R.H.: “Back to Camp” has
no thrill in it S.A.M.: No use Old Colonial:
Pretty lame yarn that Gee Whiz: Story dull as an
archbishop’s vaudeville turn G.M.C,: Common-
place. .. .E.W.D.: Melodrama.... Scratch: Poorly
told. Worth telling better. Try C.J.K.: It
hasn’t “developed any poetic faculty” in y0u....
P.McG.: Not up C.F.P.: “Dusk” won’t do, but the
last line is worth while :
But here the lights are shouting so you cannot
hear the stars.
....Moira: Primitive sense of humor. Try it on
the cows... .Nightowl: Rhymes shockingly and
doesn’t say much C.J.W.: Thin, and with
little point. ... G.R.: Spring verse good of its kind,
but not interesting E.S.M.: You’ve got “free
verse” down to a fine point by writing a word to a
line. Most of it looks like a page of a dictionary
without the meanings and derivations attached...,
E.D.: Poor verse based on an amazing lack of know-
ledge. .. .F. 1.: Should imagine a cat with a name
like Isabel would want to go away.... A.A.E.: Cor-
rect descriptive verse, but with nothing new in
thought or phrasing. .. .S.L.: Spring fails to stir
even a kick. .. .E.W.: “July” and the “Fairy Robe”
miss C.8.R.: Verse not up O’Keefe: Send it
to a Sunday-school paper. They’d understand “Life”
in that setting. .. .Mari Marina: If it were fact it
might have a passing interest. As fiction it has
none... .E. 0.: “Destroyer” must go back. It works
too mechanically to convince. M.8.P.: Please
don’t give us “free verse.” Garnett: It’s a kind
of verse we don’t remember having met before.
Sample:—
These thoughts a sort of strike a chap some times
When he a sort o’ thinks and the hours a sort of
drag some times
And seem like drawn-out weeks and then the mind
it seems to see sad things of years gone by.
And it is just these sad memories' that a sort of makes
you cry.
Cause it seems to punch a poor chap’s heart
Till the pain leaks out his eye.
. ...J.R.K.: Verse not good enough.... Transit: Far
too crude... .H.H.8.: “The Poet” entirely lacks
interest.... Ivaiponi: Feeble tiling'—blown out with
a snort of disdain. .. .5.11.: Not strong enough to go
the journey... ,N.S.: Native names verse shows no
skill. ... D. II.: Too taqie for a shocking example....
R.8.N.: “Foiled” is full of martial stir:—
Right in the midst of this awful war,
A Russian anarchist penetrated to the core.
He arrived in the trenches in the dead of night,
And persuaded the Russians not to fight.
But Earl Kitchener came, disguised as a serf
Selling vodka. He asked him what his bombs were
worth.
The anarchist didn’t know what to say,
And replied “Whatever you like to pay.”
But Kitchener throttled him, for he saw through his
disguise.
And said “Those kind of men are worse than German
spies.”
Marama: Nothing in it Dump: Ah, here’s a
cheerful occupation for war and strike time:—
I oft-times sit and ponder
On retrospective thoughts
Of day and night we squandered
When we possessed no thoughts.
As I think of the dear old pastimes,
The beautiful days of old,
I sigh to think it’s the last time
My youthful young days I will hold.
. ...v.F.Iv.: Very slight... ..T.L.C.: No need to ex-
plain that you are “not in the habit, of writing
poetry’.’....Putlique: No use... .F.L.H.: “Echoes”
brings no joy. .. . J.R.: Verse seems to grow more
cheerfully insane. .. .M.H.W.: Gentle little curse
suitable for nursery-birthday teas.... The Possum:
Won’t d 0... .C.E.R.R.E. (or something such): The
title sounded good, but the verse is sorrowful....
Gosling: No A.E.G.: Shocking The Mug:
Not enough in it C.A.H.: Same to you.
.... Kookaburra: The bump and wobble of it
makes us dizzy H.W.S.: Verse about Howe
very rugged E.H.: Rather well done. Now look
for something worth doing. . . .C.8.A.: Too slight. ...
E.G.: Can’t form any idea of your ability from a
scrap of disjointed prose miscalled verse.... G.A.M.:
Not up. .. .G.G.8.: Horrible... .L. 0.8.: Verse verv
thin, but has a hint of merit G. 8.: It isn’t verse
nor anything like verse 1.0. G.: Not up, but some
faint hope E.L.8.: Feeble stuff Rooniyes: Not
much of a first attempt... .Fyvir: Too rugged....
H. Not quite T.V.T.: Ditto.. . .P.S.: Cor-
rect verse without much lift... .Sam Pan: Misses... .
•T.J.S.: You have some distance to go. . . .Iota: Six
pages to say you don’t agree with us. We don’t
expect everybody to.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Ray M.: Fine moral —sad drawing. .. .Fitzroy:
Another woodcut H.J.: Nothing there that we
could use. ...P.8.: Paralysed art .M.H.: The
expressionless lady behind the counter is too large
she looms like a figurehead.... C.F.: Uncertain
beginnings.... T.W.: Away with the tangled dwarf!
. ...E.R.M.: All badly drawn.... E.W.: So obvious,
isn't it?
Lance-Cpl. Sam Ffiokleton. from whose
Maoriland uniform hangs one of the latest
V.C.’s, is a Scotsman, who had been in the
ricketty islands only a year before the bugles
blared. Still, lie’s no sae bad, no sap bad.
conseedering!


\
7/.
\ i )
I
// J
VY>
M
i
m4k
Sfck
~i
m
t 57
nm
m
a
®SN
;
i
r/Affi ill
m
eras
IQ l
Er
M
Ms
IMPTnHBaH
m i
inf
JirSHS?
timi nm
ffrrrr
Mini
rrrrr
C/rfrrrff
rTjrinfMfffp
m
a
£t=
0
s
yim
i w
■.;■/•■•;■■
fc’
r-^Sq&:
f
Jii
U
0
Ilium i"
y-c
SYDNEY N.S.W
TOWN HAa .
ST ANDREWS CATHEDRAL
Strong Enough for Every Service
The tyre that has to be
“nursed” to get mileage from
it has no place in either country
or town service- in Australia.
The roads, or what sometimes
are called roads by courtesy,
will not let you get mileage
from any but the best tyres.
On the wood blocks or
asphalt pavements of the city
itself any properly inflated
tyre should show results —
But for the suburban high-
ways and byways, and for the
main-road travel —where dis-
tances are long and conditions
are severe, where trouble is
trouble in dead earnest the
cheap tyre is a delusion, a
snare, and always a disap-
pointment.
Goodyear A.W.T. Tyres
are built strong; enough for
o o
every service—they need no
pampering in city street, sub-
urban avenue or on the rough
country road.
Goodyear Tyres are all road
tyres from every point of view
—ready for all the road has
to offer and aide to withstand
all threatened trouble when
it comes.
They are the sum total of all
J
that is best in knowledge,
materials and method in the
general tyre-making field.
Goodyear I yres are the
natural outcome of a manu-
facturing policy that refuses
to recognise any but the
o j
highest quality in materials
and craftsmanship.
Your car should be shod with Goodyears,
if you believe that the best is inevitably
the most economical in the long run.
Buy them of the Goodyear Service
Station Dealer: there are more than
500 already established throughout
Australia, and the number is added to
ever) 7 day.
The Goodyear Service Station Dealer
is eager to help you get out of every
Goodyear Tyre the final mile of service
we have put into them.
And he has other things to offer you
in this endeavor to secure you in
getting value from your Goodyear Tyre
equipment.
Tubes, for instance. . Goodyear Tubes,
built to ensure the long service Good-
year Covers are capable of delivering if
you will let them.
And that handy package of tyre pre-
paredness known as the Goodyear “Tyre
Saver Kit,” which contains every essen-
tial first-aid to tyres.
Meet the Goodyear Service Station
Dealer the next time you want any
advice on the much vexed question of
tyres. There is one somewhere near
you —to be of service to you-of
more acceptable service than perhaps
you realise.
If you cannot locate him in your vicinity,
write to us and we will furnish you with
his name and address.
The Goodyear Tyre 8 Rubber Co. of Australasia Ltd
Head Office, Sydney, N.S.W.
r
Sr
Branches and Agencies in all Principal Cities.
Dealers and Service Stations Everywhere.


Shipping.
ORIENT EINB
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) I
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
FOR MOVEMENTS
OF STEAMERS SEE
DAILY PAPERS.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping fot
S.A.andW.A.ports)
•Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputv Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A :
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. ,T.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane,
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NFW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gra.v, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq •
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. IT. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, Qimited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,940,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,940,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. ~ Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WVNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paiduip .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
cm Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Georoe hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel, Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIIIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEYEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD ~ 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Directors:
£3,894 980
£2,800.000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
The Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., AI.L.C.
The i I on. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bhckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq. ; \Y. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney, London Office —29 Threadneedle St E c
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London •
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills ne°-o
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
JBank * Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
in the
fir;,, General Banking Business „ rmoipi ,
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable rMiittanees made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct Foreie-n
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to anv part of' the world
lung and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
□xed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Bank
Savings Bank Department
Minimum At all Branches, and over Interest at o°/
Deposit 2600 A e er >C'eB at Post Offices Per annum %
in Australia and Papua. up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL. Deputy Governor.
June , 1916
DENISOX MILLER. Goreruor
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager : E. P. Cahr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager': M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George_Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor Wheel
On sale by all the following firms'
" rite or ca H for particulars.
PhiUp Frankel & Co., Edward St Bris
bane; Eyes & Crowle Ltd., Pir’ie st
Adelaide; Ceo. C. Carter
Sydney. KUSSaCk ’ «/,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and f
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
s.s. MORIALTA
S.S. RUPARA
S.S. PARINGA
SAILINGS CANCELLED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable .*
the first Fort of call with other Inter-Stn* rv 1 1
“ •" “'Vices subject ,o
ascertained on application at the Company, Office
G. S. YI'ILL & CO., CTO
A g eut »» 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney vu
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and
as advertised in daily newspapers. sa *
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa ; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
f rom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa everv thrpo
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne „
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney *
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLTD COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—c ana d a
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:—OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON &‘CO„ Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD.. Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
"J“HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
1 WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMRUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —-steamer to Alunvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SY'DNEY, or vice-veisa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T. 5.5. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
5.5. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel ot
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets aie
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, abo
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji drade,
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED.
Agents. 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
A. should read the Burnsn Austka -
asian. Gd. weekly—an illustrated paP el
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europ
and at home. Australians are cordially in'
vited to visit the Bkitisii Australasia*
Beading Room at the Offices, 115 High km
horn. London, W.C., where they can see tn
home papers, meet their friends, us , e . 1 *
telephone, and obtain information withon
charge.


Kodaks are
simple and very useful
A Kodak is wonderfully easy to use
and always ready, so that you can in-
stantly make a record that is interesting,
complete and easy to understand. You
will find a Kodak far better than a
diary, a note-book and a sketch-book
combined.
You need a Kodak to send pictures of
home to your soldier friend.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/= to £l5/2/=
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak is ideal
for groups, views and portraits. Takes excellent
postcard pictures—sJ x 3J- inches. Price £5/10/=
Ask for your copy of the latest Kodak catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers and
*:
mm
r
'
fv
■
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
(Incorporating Baker S Rouse Prop. Ltd.)
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next Melba Theatre), Valley; 37 Bundle St.,
Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.. Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St.,
Rockhampton; 346 Argent St.. Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner I.ambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington,
N.Z.; 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
Have You Ever Wished
that your figure would not look so heavy—that your hips and thighs would look smaller —that all
your clothes, from the simplest frock to the most expensive gown, would always fit perfectly and look
smart ; that, no matter where you are, you would always have the satisfaction of knowing that you
are correctly corseted according to the demands of the new silhouette?
If the above has ever been your wish, you do not wear a Gossard.
The smartly-dressed women of the tall and short heavy types who wear Gossards have had this
wish fulfilled ever since they have worn their first Gossard.
A Gossard corset and. brassiere can do so much for heavy women, give them so much added charm
and grace, and make them feel so comfortable at all times, that if you are heavy you owe it to
yourself to be fitted to one of the many special Gossard corsets designed for the
■■k <n
m
Ideal Tall and Short Heavy Figures.
They reduce the hip line from two to six
inches —support the full abdomen, reduce
excess flesh, and make the figure look from
ten to twenty-five pounds lighter. Elastic
sections at sides and back are so placed that
thighs and upper limbs are confined and
reduced, and corset never slips up on the
body.
An expert corsetiere, who understands your
figure requirements, will deem it a pleasure
to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
The //. //< fi ossard/0./nc.
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women
of AUSTRALIA by
Allan & Stark, Ltd., Brisbane. Farmer & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd., Melbourne. A. W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Rbckhampton.
Harry Davies & Co., Ballarat. James Marshall & Co., Adelaide.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
In NEW ZEALAND by
,T. Ballantyne & Co., Christchurch. J. Ballantyne & Co., Timaru.
The Drapery and General Importing' Co., of New Zealand, Christchurch.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Lyttelton.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Wellington.
George & Kersley, Ltd., N.Z., “The Economic,” Wanganui.
Herbert Hayes & Co., Ltd., Dunedin.
Ideal Tall
Heavy
Figure.
W. Lewis & Co., Invercargill.
Milne & Choyce, Ltd., Auckland.
Ideal Short
Heavy
Figure.
If
I


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now utider the management of
T. M. AHERN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
RESIDE and DINE at
The
Australia
Hotel,
SYDNEY
Suites
de luxe.
Rooms with
Bath & Balcony.
European or
American Plan.
Private
Safe Deposit.
Spacious
Winter Carden.
Cuisine
par excellence.
Crill Rooms
a la carte.
Afternoon Teas
and Suppers.
Recherche
Dinners.
Weddings
Catered for.
Address: THE MANAGER.
THE CHANDLER SIX.
The Chandler Six is a Car of THE HIGHEST QUALITY. We
express, with ABSOLUTE SINCERITY, our CONVICTION that,
REGARDLESS of PRICE or ANY OTHER CONSIDERATION, the
motor of the CHANDLER SIX is THE BEST six-cylinder motor FA ER
PRODUCED —a BELIEF that is SHARED by THOUSANDS of
OW’NERS of CHANDLER CARS who have owned and driven other cars
of world-wide reputation.
Consider a ROOMY, .LUXURIOUS, SEVEN-PASSENGER. SIX-
CYLINDER CAR, with POWER to SURMOUNT ALL HILLS-
STRONG. STURDY and SWlFT— weighing less than 30001 b. fully
equipped, honest weight—running sixteen miles and more per gallon of
gasoline, hundreds of miles on one gallon of oil. and A v EKACtIAvt, on
good roads, 7000 MILES TO ONE SET OF TYRES, and it can readily
be understood why the
CHANDLER LIGHT-WEIGHT SIX IS NOT ONLY A SIX YOU CAN
AFFORD TO BUY, BUT A SIX YOU CAN AFFORD TO RUN.
The Price of this Superb Car is only £535 —
and it’s honest value right through.
y
RING CITY 8562 and arrange a Demonstration.
MARCUS CLARK <& CO. LTD.,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR N.S.W.
GARAGE and SHOWROOMS 162 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
BANANA LAND
The stupid Northern Railway strike might
never have occurred had the contemptuous
term “scab” not been applied with such em-
phasis during the preliminaries. When the
downing of tools started, Mackay and Cairns
were going to let the Townsville men settle
their own little affair, which wouldn’t have
taken long, but Townsville retorted that if
they did they would be scabs. The effect
was magical. Down went implements at
Cairns and Mackay with a clank. That
the Northern men thus scabbed on the pub-
lic did not of course get a moment’s con-
sideration. It never will until the public
falls on the responsible parties with heavy
penalties.
Passed out in Sydney, George Birch, of
Rockhampton, a partner in the solid Banana-
land firm of Birch and Carroll. Birch hailed
from the Cold Country and hung out his sign
over the Union and Criterion hotels at
Rockhampton for some 30 years. In 1917
he hitched up with E. J. Carroll in the
show business, and to-day the firm is run-
ning 21 film picture palaces besides renting
film to 65 others.
A Lullaby.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Afar in the mountains the spiders of even-
ing
Are; weaving their grey webs to bury the
day;
The brownies are driving the butterflies
homeward,
The. earth has its sun-scatter tidied away.
The creek shines no longer a ribbon of silver,
The golden is gone from the laurel-tree’s
crest;
’Tis time that all birdies and babies were
sleeping,
So hush thee to rest.
Oh, hush, for the black wolves of night-
time, the shadows,
Have stolen the starlight and hidden it deep.
A goblin’s abroad, and the fairies are fright-
ened ;
But mother is holding thee, little love —sleep.
And to-morrow, when sunbeams are gilding
the gum-trees,
When the wind is awake, and the little birds
sing,
With my heart for a castle, the world for
thy kingdom,
I’ll crown thee a king.
Thy treasury filled with the gold of the
wattle,
And sequins of sunlight the leaves flutter
- down,
And the blue sea will lend us a strip of her
satin,
All sheeny with sunshine, to weave thee a
gown.
Thy sceptre a bright poinsettia blossom,
Thy herald a red robin carolling near,
And then we will make of a little grey
’possum
Thy courtier, dear.
So sleep thee, my small one, and dream till
the morning
Of seashell, and sunbeam, and flower-trim-
ming fay,
Of the songs of the creek, and the golden
leaves’ laughter,
Till shadows are lost in the bright light of
day.
Oh, hushaby! hushaby ! goblins come creep-
ing,
’Tis time little birdies and babies were sleep-
ing.
QUEENSLAND.
ERNESTINE HEMMINGS.
Pig at Biggenden.
Randolph Bedford goes exploring:—
Biggenden is 50 miles west of Maryborough and
on the railroad to Gayndah, which again extends
itself to Mudingburra and there stops, maybe for
years, before taking its last leap to the border of
Queensland territory, out by the setting sun. Big-
genden hopes to spell iron-mines one day; at this
moment it spells pigs. All trains takes them east
and south to that death whose resurrection is pork,
bacon, lard and smallgoods. White, black, yellow,
red and black and tan, they leave Biggenden in
two-decked cars after shrieking for half a day and
a night.
I struck Biggenden on a pig-sale day, and was
impressed with neither sweet scents nor harmony.
One, who used to be a boar, and went out of that
business 12 months ago, was treated to dentistry
by the painful method before entraining. His
tusks promised torn pig on the journey, he being
a powerful brute and quarrelsome, so the gentlemen
who were acting as his forwarding agents seized him,
held his mouth open by a rope hitched around his
upper jaw, and then knocked out his tusks with
DIDN'T WANT TO BACK A DOUBLE.
“You see, Doc, it’s this way. I want a girl; my wife wants a boy!”
“Well, then, why do you worry?"
“I’m afraid neither of us may he disappointed."
a hammer. The expostulatory remarks offered dur-
ing the operation make me suspect that his den-
tists did not use cocaine. But that there was neces-
sity for dentistry he proved by running amok
as soon as he got into the loading yards. Unable
to appreciate the loss of his tusks he tackled any-
thing in sight, until three smaller and more active
pigs beat him to a standstill. Than that there was no
other standstill in the yard, nor in the trucks. The
gentlemen pigs fought little, except to get all four
feet in the trough and act like sugar-refiners. There
was in their greedy rage something Of the resentment
of a parson under interjection. But the lady pigs
scrapped and screamed for the pleasure of it, re-
senting the nearness of one another and filling the
welkin with shrieks and obscene noises.
I left this clamor at Biggenden, and went
south through the forest land to the foothills of
creeper-grown scrub —tall, black pine-woods upon
their flanks and skirting the winding, shining, little
creek half hidden by scrub and vines and creepers.
So to the bismuth mine in the hills, and the bismuth
mine’s burned-out mill-house. All the way up that
creek such bad immigrants and undesirable aliens as
lantana and prickly-pear are eating the sane woods
and grasses as evil devours beauty.
Biggenden Mountain was opened up many years
ago by a company that Huntingdon-milled the iron
for a result of bismuth that does not appear to have
paid well. A fire took the mill-house after the co.
had handled a few thousand tons, incidentally having
to elevate tails because of building at the toe of
the hill instead of somewhere about the knee. The
present owners bought it three years ago for bismuth,
but have not crushed a ton yet, the building of the
new mill forcing the labor to loaf on the job because
they have to wait for tools and plant. Meantime
all the talk is not of the ore, but of the gangue.
The law gives the lessee the metals he applies for
the right to mine, and reserves the others; so the
lessee can mine bismuth but not iron. It is a high-
grade iron, too, turning out an excellent quality of
pig of high tensile strength, and the Government has
reserved the ore here and elsewhere for its essay at
iron production. A high Protection is already exist-
ent without a duty, and not all dependent on freight;
for pig in Pittsburg is worth 45 dollars a ton. That
condition will probably persist for some time after
the war and during the work of reconstruction; and
by that time Australia will probably have lost out
of politics the imported little men who bleat of
foreign trade.
In the open cuts and shaft and tunnel and crosscuts
and winze on Biggenden Mountain there are 100,000
tons exposed; and lateral extension visible on surface
should make half a million tons more than probable
on development. There are other good-looking iron
shows in the district, and enough to start on, any-
how.
When I reached the railway again the pigs were
still in their double-decked cars on the side tracks,
and still acting like Opposition criticising Govern-
ment. The long night was punctuated by the
shrieks of the lady pigs—scratching each other's
faces with their sharp hoofs; trying for shoulder
bites; making insulting remarks about the charac-
ters of their rivals. It sounded like nothing else
so much as one of those meetings for women which
are helping to distinguish Brisbane just now; but
in the shocking noises there was a suggestion of a
Rev. Yellow Pup using language calculated to pro-
voke a breach of the peace on July the Twelfth.
Still, one may be doing the pigs an injustice; no
man may tell of the abilities for language of meet-
ings for women, and of sectarians, until he has seen
them in the conditions of double-decked pig-cars
waiting for a train. But, maybe, one of these
days
That night the snorer in the Sounding Board
Hotel had it all his own way until the devil entered
into the swine again, suddenly taking possession
of the night, and evicting sleep; a few small,
unsexed pigs saying nothing, seeking the corners to
find peace, and putting flat noses out to smell the
moonlight, while the battle of the old-lady pigs
raged in the middle of the truck.
There is nothing so perverse as a pig, unless it'
be man or woman. And either of them can run
amok without losing their tusks by the painful
method of extraction.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 25, 1917.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
A garden party at Govt. House on Thurs-
day afternoon was the social event of the
week. The executive of the Red Cross and
the V.A.D. girls were the guests, and her Ex.
was assisted as hostess by Mrs. Cozens.
At other pleasure parties during the past
few days Mrs. Lex Craig was hostess at
one; Mrs. Donald Fletcher, of Eurella,
managed another; Miss Kitty Ryan (girls
and kewpies were her guests) presided at the
Coo-ee Cafe; and Mrs. Jim McWhirter
rounded up the clans to honor Mrs.'George
Johnson, of Sydney.
Several women who worked hard to estab-
lish the Residential Club for returned sol-
diers are feeling disappointed. When the
coaxing of money from the public began it
was advanced as a bait that the object was
to provide a cheap but good home for
otherwise homeless warriors. Now. the
management, which is in the control of the
Returned Soldiers and Sailors’ Association,
has fixed the tariff at 255. a week, notwith-
standing that in tow r n there are several
boarding-houses which make special reduc-
tions for returned soldiers —255. a week, or
less. What the organising women of the Club
want to know is whether the patriotic estab-
lishment is to be a money-making concern,
and, if so, who is to get the profits?
Capt. F. Hinton, back from the Front, is
in luck. Miss Margaret Largey has agreed
to do her best for him in future.
Two well-known Bananalanders went over
the hill during the week. One was A. J.
Kirk (54), stock inspector, who died sud-
denly at Normanton; the other E. Temple
Curtis, a well-liked Customs officer, who
died suddenly at Clayfield. He had been in
the Department since 1883, stationed, in
turn, at Maryborough, Gladstone and Thurs-
day Island. His widow was a daughter of
the late Lawrence Smith, one of the best-
known of. the earlier Brisbane settlers. An
only son, Lieut, de Burgh Curtis, is in France
with the A.I.F.
Bowen is congratulating Mrs. ,7. M.
Doyle on her recovery from a long illness
which followed the death of her husband,
one of the oldest shipping identities on the
Australian coast. He managed the
A.U.S.N. Co.’s Sydney wharves for some
years until 1890, when he came north and
controlled Burns. Philp’s extensive Towns-
ville shipping interests. He had fine com-
mand over men and was as effective as a
couple of Arbitration Court judges in set-
tling local disputes. He had been in
retirement for 12 years when the end came.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
In five years Wilthorn railway station, on
the Cooyar line, has produced the following
traffic: 39 passengers (fares 335. 7d.), goods
outward £27 ss. Bd., ditto inward £l4 10s.
9d. Kates, on the Goomburra line, has had
30 passengers (fares 20s. 7d.), outward
goods revenue 10s. 6d., and inward ditto
£2 14s. 4d. Britain and Australia having
no use for money just now, and every pre-
sent railway line being congested like this,
let’s borrow another 10 or 20 millions to
open up more ebuntry!


The Light Four
Touring Car
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Magneto Ignition
'A
SA
HI
n
!■
SSS
1
1
§SS
i •:
mm
1
■
1
m
m
tm
m
:? '/•
m
m
mm
ill
HI
M
ss§?
S6<
gn
Si
iM
rity of Value
In the Overland Big Four-cylinder touring
car and the Overland Light Four-cylinder
touring car, the luxurious and the practical
are in proper balance to produce lasting satis-
faction.
The Big Four is finished in a deep rich
brown, while the colour of the Light Four is
a beautiful shade of gray.
These two models exemplify the remark-
able values made possible by tremendous pro-
duction.
Size does not of itself constitute greatness.
An industry is as great as its service to
the public.
But size does usually constitute oppor-
tunity for service.
In the case of Willys-Overland, size origi-
nally was an indication of foresight and courage.
It constituted an opportunity
new values in motor cars —this was Sfservice.
Growth came as a reward of this service,
and with growth came opportunity for further
service—further revision of values.
Today’s immensity means experience,
facilities and resources, plus the public con*
fidence, which gives these things stability for
yet greater service.
The Willys-Overland ideal of service is in-
tegrity of value in • the product throughout
the whole life of that product’s service.
The Willys-Overland Motor Cars which
we have to show you exemplify this ideal
and constitute the most comprehensive range
of models ever built by any one motor car
producer.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
**Country Club”
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Car
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
KELLOW FALKINER LTD., Melbourne.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
HEATHORN & CO., Hobart & Launceston*
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth .
N.Z. FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z .
The WiHys-Overland Company* Toledo, Ohio
Manufacturers of Willys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
and Light Lorries


"BIFF” Gives Spring
and Speed to the Feet!
V.
rts -
Makes
You Hop
with Joy
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
"BIFF” is a scientific compound which draws out
all poisonous matter from the pores of the skin,
leaving the skin in a perfectly healthy condition
to perform its natural functions. This unique
compound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic
EXTRACTS from Unsolicited Letters
"Words cannot express my gratitude to the man-
ufacturers of ‘ BIFF,’ for it is without question
the finest preparation for foot troubles on the
market.”—A.N., n.z.
"Your remedy (‘BIFF’) for chilblains is curing
me.
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
dox, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT **
& KHEUMATIC PII/LiS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Pront A- Go.. 220 Strand. London.
BAD
LEG
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
and PlLLS' are the
great English remedy,
within the reach of all,
in all cases of Bad
Legs, Poisoned
Wounds and Hands,
Ulcers, Carbuncles,
Muscular Pains, Bun-
ions, Snake and Insect
Bites, and will save
lancing or cutting.
English Prices, 1/5, 5/- & 5/- per box
Sold by all Stores and Chemists and wholesa e by
ELLIOTT BROS., ANTHONY HORDERNS’
W. H. SOUL, PATTINSON & CO.,
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ALBERT & Co., 73, Farringdon St, London, E.C. 4
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres s
•22
•280
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St, MELBOURNE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PR!CE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. ELtab. 1891.
You Wouldn’t Poison
Your Own Children
Yet many people allow their children to poison
themselves.
Half of the diseases of childhood may be traced
to a single cause—constipation and resulting self-
poisoning.
Continuous self-poisoning in early years, not only
causes specific diseases, but undermines the health
to a degree that can never be repaired.
You can keep your children healthy and vigorous
by the use of Nujol. Nujol is easy to take and
relieves the most obstinate cases of constipation.
Nujol keeps the bowels clean and free from
disease-causing decayed foods and germs. It
acts as an internal lubricant, is not absorbed by
the body, does not form a “habit” and is harmless
in any quantity.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(New Jersey)
U. S. A.
Nujol
TRADE MARK
FOR CONSTIPATION
Ask your chemist for booklet. Sold only in
16 ounce bottles bearing Nujol trademark.
Never in bulk. Avoid substitutes.
m
/ *5
FOR CONSTIP/
Ci^Ql
SSU2T
smm.
Standard''.<ddi'C(i
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’*
Miss Gladys Cooper Explains
Some Beauty Secrets.
The Popular London Star Favors Simple Methods.
I have been asked to give a few simple recipes that I know, either through personal
use or by observation, to be valuable to the toilet, and which are within the reach of the
average woman. In these days of £lOO facial treatments and elaborate and expensive
beautifying processes my suggestions may read like lessons in economy, but they are
not especially so intended. They are merely practical suggestions, in which the keynote
is “effectiveness.” All the materials or ingredients which I mention are either already
at hand in the home or may be readily procured from the chemist. Fortunately Ido not
suffer from the ailments or troubles enumerated below, but some people who are not so
fortunate have told me their experiences, and with your permission I will set forth some
remedies which they have found to be efficacious.
Home-made Hair Tonic.
My acquaintances say that a good stimulant
to tlie natural growth of the hair is boranium.
A very simple, effective and safe stimulating
lotion made up by mixing one ounce of bora-
nium with i pint of bay rum. This may be
applied to the hair roots occasionally with the
finger-tips with good results.
Complexion Renewals.
Complexion experts advise me that a normal,
healthy complexion is constantly renewing it-
self by dropping off tiny flakes of worn-out
tissue, thus revealing the fresh young skin
underneath. They sa.v that when this process
is cheeked by age, expo-
sure or some of mauy
causes, the complexion
becomes dull and ugly.
The rational treatment
recommended is to help
the skin perform the
natural functions of
“shedding” worn-out tis-
sue. For this purpose, I
am informed, there is
nothing so good as pure
mercolized wax, used for
a few nights, just as you
would use a face cream.
It is claimed that it pos-
sesses a special affinity
for the effete scarf-skin,
which it quickly removes
by absorbing it. The face.
I am assured, will soon
look much younger and
prettier under this treat-
ment.
The Curling Iron.
Don’t use a hot iron to
cur] your hair. Some of
my friends make the cun-
ningest sort of curls
wherever they want
them simply by damp-
ing the hair with liquid
silmerine before retiring
at night. When the hair is dry in the morn-
ing it will be softly curly just where you
want it to be. This method is perfectly harm-
less, even beneficial to the hair, and the curls
last a long time. The liquid is quite pleasant
and neither sticky nor greasy.
How to Shampoo.
Most women, I am informed, do not know
how to use stallax properly when shampooing
with it. Unless the hair is naturally very
oily, a stallax shampoo may sometimes leave
it rather dry. But I am told if you will apply
olive oil freely to your hair and scalp just
before shampooing with stallax, the result is
most delightful. The hair will be left clean,
soft, bright and wavy, the olive oil having
properly balanced the action of this wonderful
hair cleanser.
Is Powder Necessary?
A great many women object to using pow-
der, for various reasons. The following
formula is a good one: Dissolve an ounce of
MISS GLADYS COOPER.
Photo Wrather & \Buy.
cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of water, or
witch-hazel, and use it as a face lotion,
smoothing the skin with the lingers until it
is dry. This method is perfectly harmless.
I am told that a really beautiful, natural, vel-
vety bloom results and remains for many hours
quite unaffected by the most trying conditions
out of doors or in the ballroom or theatre,
and that it gives a much more natural appear-
ance to some skins than does ordinary powder.
Grey Hair.
I have observed many attempts of many
people to conceal grey hair. Some of these
experiments were amusing, some disastrous,
and some were success-
ful. Personally I believe
I shall let my hair turn
when the appointed time
comes, but if I were
Foing to try to evade it,
would give a trial to a
real old “grandmother”
formula that would prob-
ably do the work. This
formula, I am informed,
has been used with de-
grees of success for many
generations, and consists
merely of two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite
mixed with three ounces
of bay rum. It is ap-
plied to the grey hair
a few times with a small
sponge, and ladies tell
me it appears to darken
the hair to a natural
shade, not like a dye, but
gradually and naturally.
Miscellaneous Hints.
A few useful hints from
my friends on aids to
beauty, are as follows:
Theeyebrowsand lashes
may be made to grow
stronger and darker by
applying mennaline, a
specially delicate pomade, with the hnger-nps
at night. , „„
Rouge is often obvious, and many
therefore prefer to use powdered colliandum,
which gives a most natural tint. _
The lips may be prevented from drying ana
chapping by touching them with a stica
of prolactum, which also gives them a goo a
Freckles are most effectively combated with
ammoniated mercury creams, of which jeua-
line is the best.
Note.—This interesting article on beauty
culture in general was written by Miss uiaays
Cooper at the request of the manufacturers or
Pilenta Soap—the best complexion soap in tne
world. On sale by all chemists. '
“Umfaan” sees a colleague go over: —
When John Alexander Hobson died in- a French
hospital from an accidental injury, the last chapter
in a tragic fight ended. Hobson was at one time
a major in the Royal Horse Artillery, but, partly
through assisting a subaltern with Government
funds, he came under the ban in India during a Kit-
chener Spring-clean. He was “broke,” and, landing in
Melbourne penniless, swept out and. worked around the
Markets. Afterwards he was made a staff-sergeant-
major ; and in Brisbane many a Citizen Force artil-
lery officer spent the Sunday afternoon at “Hobby’s ’
getting wrinkles for exams. Generally “Hobby”
received a new pair of gloves as his reward for a
pass. On the outbreak of war, mainly through the
efforts of Major “Gus” Hughes (now Colonel and
D. 5.0.) he left as battery-sergeant-major, and on the
Peninsula used as a sergeant-major the “Hobson-
Molyneaux” patent for laying telephone wire, of
which he was the principal inventor. After the
evacuation he was granted his commission. Just
afterwards he came into £6OO a year, which grati-
fied the old chap mightily. But he was more grati-
fied still to be received cordially at the Cavalry Club
while on leave in England. His accident occurred
at a chateau, where he was instructing at a corps
artillery school back of the line. Slipping down a
flight of stairs, he broke his thigh, and died two
days later of abdominal injuries.
“Half-moon”: On Cape York there is a
cocoanut plantation of 100 acres which is
one of the best attempts at the business
about Torres Strait. Tropical traders are
slowly waking to the possibilities of the
cocoanut, but the Queensland Agricultural
Department characteristically sleeps on the
subject. With the assistance of Adriano
Hernandez, editor of the Manila Agri-
cultural Review, I have gathered some
facts about the cocoanut industry in the
Philippines. There are 30 million palms
bearing and 24 million immature. In 1915
the export of copra was 131,558 tons. For
the year ending June, 1916, the export of
oil was 3,242,866 gallons—-value £622,533.
They used for home consumption in round
figures 500,000 gallons—value £74.000 —the
manufacture of the smaller mills. The cen-
tral or big mills handle the export trade.
The small mills owned and operated by in-
dividual farmers are scattered through the
region. In these the nut is husked by the
sharp-pointed tapasan at an average of 100
nuts per hour. The kabiawan, a revolving
brush with strong sharp teeth, extracts the
meat at the same rate. The meat having
sieved and ground, is boiled in metal bowls,
husks and shells providing the fuel. After
boiling the liapitan, or press, extracts the
oil (60 per cent.) by several crushings.
Most of the implements are home-made.
With two presses, one grinder and two meat
extractors three men will extract oil from
2000 nuts in a week. Quantity 50 to 70
gallons. When I chew over these figures
and then think of the empty North with its
possibilities, I feel like heaving the biggest
nut available at —well, not at Billy Hughes.
He’s winning the war for us, I hear.
Sydney Telegraph, reviewing Isaac
Macrossan’s book, “The War After the
War,” quotes him as showing that “a world-
wide freeze-out business campaign against
Germany will be very difficult to carry into
effect.” Already, says Macrossan, Germans
by thousands are becoming naturalised citi-
zens of Holland, Spain. Switzerland and
Denmark, building factories there and ship-
ping the product into the strongholds of
Germany’s enemies, stamped with neutral'
names. “Much of the ‘Swiss’ chocolate you
buy in Paris was made by Teutonic hands.”
The Telegraph’s comment is:—
Apparently it may be confidently anticipated that
as soon as the war is over—and perhaps before —
there will be an influx into Australia of imports
from Holland, Spain, Switzerland and Denmark, and
the bulk of them will be of German make, the Ger-
man manufacturer having taken the necessarv steps
which entitle him to call himself a Dutchman,
Spaniard, Swiss or Dane. How is this danger to be
guarded against by consular certificates of origin?
The only way to guard against the danger is
for the Australian Parliament to get busy
right away and replace the gaping palings
°f. this country’s ludicrous tariff fence by a
scientifically-built Protective tariff wall of re-
inforced concrete clamped with steel, high
enough to keep out foreign imports and
give Australia the chance of making for her-
self what she requires. But, of course, the
Telegraph doesn’t suggest that.
Australian artist Alek Sass sketches New
fork’s latest Bohemia: —
A block square and half as high, built in the form
of a huge H, and located up town in New York,
you'll find the Lincoln Arcade—and Bohemia.
Frank Nankivell has his movies studio here; the
MaeDougalls of Sydney brass-plate the “Headquarters
of the Scottish Theatre of America” (she was with
Julian Ashton) ; R. G. Russom, of N. Y. Times, is
a neighbor ; Harry Julius works in my studio ; Louis
Esson arid his wife are across the hall; Albeit
Goldie comes in to talk high-finance and Dulcie
Deamer to rest her nerves and enthuse about Coney
Island; and Aleck (Cruickshanlc and Milo) Laing
“rests” between here and his studio, where he is
making the funniest “animated” I’ve seen. The
“perfesh” sends its quota on Sundays. Howard
Chandler Christy is the last of the American old-
school to stay on. The Futurists and Cubists are
swarming now. They eat chop-suey by night and
sleep by day. They hang their pictures always on
their ceilingp. This way they can admire their art
without rising. Marcel Duchamp, whose “Nude
Descending a Staircase” was the talk of two con-
tinents, is perhaps the most famous of the new-
comers. Owen Johnson lived here and got the local
color for his book, “The Woman Gives.” And we
have for everlasting scandal —The Baroness! The
Baron being a prisoner in The Tower of London,
the Baroness consoles herself in “thees so crude
America” with her dog and parrot, two young alliga-
tors, a pair of turtles, some white rats and a
monkey. Her street costume is mostly beads, bits
of stained glass and a cross between a bathing-suit
and a sunset. It was to interview her that the star
reporteress came with a photographer from one of
the big N.Y. dailies. The interview over, the
Baroness was asked would she be so kind as to pose
for a picture. The Baroness was too kind. Delight-
edly and unashamed, she stood up and casually-
dropped her cloak —which was her complete attire
that day. The photographer didn’t get a picture.
Some men are rattled so easily.
Eleven retired C. of E. bishops from
Australasia live in England. Which almost
for certain means that Australasia has had
11 C. of E. bishops who never regarded this
country as their home.


i
=LW f
c 'i
iw,.
At Last!
A "Perfect Bath Heater
A cold shower is all right but
it—doesn’t cleanse. It closes the
pores instead of cleansing them.
Cleanliness and Health both de-
mand a Warm Bath, and besides
—to take the cold edge off the
morning shower these days is no
little luxury.
The “Banks”
Bath Heater
With Hot Shower Attachment
is something new, something different—something better than an
ordinary bath-heater. Tested at the Technical College it was proved
most economical in gas consumption.
It is a highly-superior, SYDNEY-MADE article, made of copper, and
exquisitely finished —artistic, strong, and ever ready to give a quick
supply at minimum cost. All important is the fact that it is a ‘‘non-
contact” Heater, which leaves the water pure and free from fumes.
It takes up no floor-space—you can attach it to the wall over the bath.
Call in—see one demonstrated. We have also chip heaters, at various
prices.
“DANKS,”
Otherwise JOHN DANKS (EL SON PTY. LTD.,
THE HOUSE FOR HEAT AND LIGHT ,
324-330 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:- —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R, J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ~£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
ON ALL OCCASIONS
when you may require a specially strong antiseptic Soap—for
instance, to protect yourself against mosquitoes and other insects,
or to antiseptically cleanse their bites —use
CALVERT’S
20% Carbolic Soap.
Use a light lather only, that is all you need with a Soap like this,
which contains such a large proportion of Carbolic.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers . Each tablet in metal box .
Makers: F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester, England.
m
$
w
Cheaper
than Doctors' Bills
Everything has advanced in price,
but Wolsey, no matter what it cost, is
cheaper than doctors’ bills. Comfort
and health depend on pure wool next
the skin, and Wolsey is pure wool.
Britain’s fighting men wear pure wool
next the skin because the safety of
Britain depends on the health of its
defenders on land and sea.
You cannot afford to wear anything else but
pure Wool —Wolsey is the safe wear for you.
h asiOM
Pure Wool Underwear
Made for men, women and children. See the Wolsey head trade
mark Guaranteed unshrinkable, or replaced free.
Of all leading Drapers and Stores.
Hupmobile
Brief Hupmobile Specifications.
HUPMOBILE MODELS: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater. Motor: Four cylinder, 95 m/m
bore, 140 m/m stroke (3£in. x siin.). Long wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on
7-seater). Tyres, 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in.
x 4iin. on 7-seater, non-skid (y.res on all rear wheels. Fully equipped with electric starting
and lighting system, wind screen, hood, side curtains, door-curtain carriers, speedometer,
robe rail, foot rail, carpet in tonneau, five demountable rims, tyre carrier, pump, jack and
full set of tools —Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki hood and seat covers
at small additional cost over list price of car.
ThemarA ofsuper/ari
\gßofr_c*r*9rvi'cf
©
m
s=Seater —Wheel Base 119 inches.
YOU want beauty in
your car ; the H up-
mobile gives you beauty.
You want performance ;
the Hupmobile gives
you performance that
not even multi-cylinder
cars excel. i,
You want quality and
value ; the Hupmobile
ofives them in full
measure.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand—.
I. PHIZ A CKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania;
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.— Cable Address: “HUPP DETROIT."


FIRST HALF-YEARLY REPORT of
THE BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED
To the Second Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held on Friday,
24th August, 1917.
1. The Bank of Queensland Limited, having purchased the business of The Royal Bank of Queens-
land Limited and the business of The Bank of North Queensland Limited, opened its doors at its Head
Office and Branches on 31st January, 1917. '
2. The Directors now have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the First Half-yearly Report,
Balance-sheet and Profit and Loss Account as on the 31st July, 1917.
3. The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on
Bills Current, Interest on Deposits, Land and Income Taxes, paying
all Expenses and providing for Bad and Doubtful Debts, amount to .. .. £17,220 4 8
which the Directors recommend to be appropriated as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 6% per annum .. £13,500 0 0
~ Queensland Income Tax .. .. .. .. .. . . 768 0 2
„ Balance carried forward to next half-year.. .. .. .. 2,952 1 6
—£17,220 4 8
Brisbane, 11th August, 1917.
For and on behalf of the Board,
THOS. WELSBY,
Chairmai
BALANCE SHEET of The Bank of Queensland Limited
For the Half-year ended 31st July, 1917.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits .. .. .. .. £2,864,030 1 2
Bills Payable anil other Liabilities,
including provision- for contin-
gencies .. .. .. .. 140.976 5 1
Capital .. ..£450,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 17,220 4 8
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits as per contra
£3,472,226 10 11
65,097 14 11
£3,537,324 5 10
ASSETS.
£3,537,324 5 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Rent, Rates and Taxes
and other expenses at Head Office
and fortv-two Branches .. ..£39,588 8 6
.. Balance .. 17,220 i 8
£56,808 13 2
By Gross Profit for the Half-year
(after deducting Interest on Deposits,
Rebate on Bills Current and making-
provision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts) . . £56,808 13 2
£56,808 13 2
Audited and found correct.
W. H. PARKER
F. M. HART, F.C.P.A.
Auditors.
Til OS. WELSBY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Balance-sheet, made up to the 31st July, 1917, and report that we
find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances at Head Office, and to the Balance-sheets
furnished by the Brandies, these latter being certified to by the respective Managers and Accountants.
We have counted the cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane on
the 31st ultimo and hereby certify that we found them correct.
We further certify that in our opinion the Balance-sheet is full and fair, properly drawn up, and
exhibits a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank as shown bv r* rm the 31s+ July, 1917.
Brisbane, 11 tb August, 1917.
W. H. PARKER,
F. M. HART, F.C.P.A.
Auditor;
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOSIT OF
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ „ £5O
£B7 10 O „ „ £lOO
£875 0 O „ „ £lOOO
Payable S years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application form* amd all information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commokw*alth Bask or Aust*alu tLth March, 1917
‘His Masters Voice
The Hall-mark of
Supremacy
in the world of music
Instruments and records from all accredited dealers.
For Catalogues, record-lists, etc., write to
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
“Manhood Suffrage Should
Mean Manhood Service.”
A SUGGESTION
To Overcome the Present Deplorable Position that Australia Finds Herself j h
Regarding Her Failure to Adequately Reinforce Her Soldiers at the Front, and
so Maintain Her Honor in the Eyes of Her Allies. \ ’
The actual position to-day.
A. (1) The Commonwealth Government has fixed the monthly Reinforcements reouirei
at 7000 men per month.
(2) Experts all declare this figure to be quite unobtainable under the present system
unless men quite unsuitable for the work are accepted.
(3) Even if the number were attained it would not comprise the quality of material
required. At present a large percentage of the recruits we are getting are boys and elderly
married men.
Difficulties in the way of immediate rectification.
B. (1) The Prime Minister, before the elections, definitely promised that his Govern
ment would not introduce Conscription by Regulation or Statute during the life of the
present Parliament.
(2) He further promised that even a Referendum on the question would not be sub-
mitted to the people “unless the tide of b:\ttle should turn against the Allies” (see Benalla
speech)
(3) The Nationalists as a body, tacitly or otherwise, accepted these pledges and went
to the ballot behind their leaders.
These pledges inviolable.
C. (11 Any attempt to break pledge B 1 will almost assuredly estrange not only the anti-
conscriptionists in the population, many of whom must have voted National at the elections
but will also lie strongly opposed, even by many firm believers in Conscription.
(2) The belief of the people in the honor of Australia, and in the honor of her public
men in high places, will be grievously shaken if either of pledges B 1 or B 2 are disregarded.
(3) Any attempt to break pledges B 1 or B 2 will certainly mean a general strike, and
possibly risings in various centres.
(4) Another Referendum means that the Government breaks pledge 82, because they are
not ready to give back tbe positions they gained by making the promises B 1 and 82.
The solution of the difficulty.
D. (1) A complete Conscription measure should be passed through both Houses, on the
definite understanding that it should not become law until ratified by the electors at an elec-
tion. so that the electors could clearly understand what was the proposal of the Govern-
ment. „ ■ ... ,
(2) The Government would then say: “We find our position is an impossible one, and we
now leave the matter in the hands of the electors."
(31 The Government should cordially invite the Opposition to help them draw up the
fairest possible Conscription Bill, and then go to the country on it. each side agreeing that
they would honestly abide by the decision of the people.
J29o9.—Garnet,
Peridot and
Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold Pendant.
Price 217-
LATEST
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
C639o.—Pine Quality
Amethyst and Pearl
Set loct. Gold Brooch.
Price £3/15/-
Charming Gifts
in Gem Jewellery
At Stewart Dawson's.
The name of Stewart Dawson is a guarantee of
reliability in all that pertains to Gem Jewellery,
and our prices show a SUBSTANTIAL SAVING
bv comparison.
C 5391. —High-grade Keyless Lever Watch,
Fullv Jewelled, Accurate Timekeeper.
Price, 9ct. Gold. £6/10/- 15ct. Gold,
£9/10/- Others from £5 upwards.
STEWART
DAWSON’S,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
P2oB7.—Turquoise
and Pearl or
Pink Tourmaline
and Pearl Set
9ct. Gold Pendant.
Price 35/-
LATEST
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
C6749.—Fine Quality
Amethvst and Pearl
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch.
In,
The Reward of Loyalty
The right thing nowadays —for
sons and daughters of the Empire
—is to support British industries.
It is an act of loyalty —and Rameses
rewards that loyalty with a comfort,
durability,and fit unattainable at the
price in any other underwear. Rameses is
absolutely British, and absolutely dependable.
RAMESES
BRITISH MADE UNDERWEAR
Made in several weights for men and women don't be put off with
interior goods insist on Rameses Underwear and see the Rameses
.eau on every garment. Of all leading Drapers and Stores.
safeguard your
with
health
OtJ-Collis Brounpc
CMoroftSe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST SIEDICINE EOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma /
ami in Hie Cough of BRONCHITIS
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved P*J*
in the pains of <g;
neuralgia, J°OTB
RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, l Si '' s
.Vade in England.


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
“My face was a mass of pimples and
blackheads, principally on my forehead.
They were sore and in-
flamed and I almost went
silly with the itching and
burning pain and loss of
sleep. They were in the
form of boils.
‘ ‘I got a tin of Cuticura
Ointment and a cake of
Cuticura Soap from the
chemist and the pimples disappeared.”
(Signed) Miss Mary Kathleen Jewell,
Australia St., Goulburn, N. S. W..
September 1, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,
Sold throughout the world.
\\ '2^
CHRISTIE’S
SP£C/AUJ£
TWO
L /NE3
$
K#
l#
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
1C MOMTEP. S' NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes you,r fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for jt.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
*
r uil
M
m
■ in I wi,
m
DC
si
ELEY “ACHILLES'*
A deep shell, dark blue gastight
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 g r -) Smokeless Powder and
oz. shot.
SSS
ELEY
'320 Revolver
ELEY
*32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADA*MS,
420, George Sydney. N.S.W.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
3
tit's,.
5
v
is
to
<2
0
(S
Wes/clox
SIGBEN
7
5
6
The Perfect Day
W if
1" JF J~. /
Big Ben calls cheer-
fully —promptly at six
—you leap from the
bed into the tub a
clean shave a real
zest for toast and
marmalade.
A spring in your step
as you walk to the office
and plan the tasks for
the day.
Pitch right into the daily
work —brain so clear that
the hardest task seems
easy.
At night crawl between
downy covers, comfortably tired
—satisfied—content. A perfect
day.
Big Ben is seven inches tall, well
built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial—a cheer-
ful, deep-toned voice—large, comfortable
winding keys—a light running movement
with watchlike escapement—an alarm
that calls steadily for five minutes or
intermittently for ten. 15/- at all clock
dealers.
LaSalle, 111..U.5.A. Western Clock Co. Makers of Westclox
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium, win without
lifting a hand?
New Stomachs for Old
By Arthur True Buswell, M.D.
EUGENE CHRISTIAN
THOUSANDS of people
who suffered for years
with all sorts of stomach
trouble are walking
around to-day with en-
tirely remade stomachs.
They enjoy their meals
and never have a thought
of indigestion, constipa-
tion or any of the serious
illnesses with which they formerly suffered
and which are directly, traceable to the
stomach.
And these surprising results have been
produced not by drugs or medicines of any
kind, not by foregoing substantial foods, not
by eating specially prepared or patented
foods of any kind, but by eating the foods
we like best correctly Combined.
These facts were forcibly brought to my
mind by Eugene Christian, the eminent Food
Scientist, who has successfully treated over
23,000 people with foods alone!
In a recent talk with Eugene Christian
he told me of some of his experiences in the
treatment of various ailments through food
—just a few instances out of the more than
23,000 cases he has on record.
One case of what proper food combina-
tions can do was that of a man one hundred
pounds overweight, whose only other discom-
fort was rheumatism. This man s greatest
pleasure in life was eating. Though con-
vinced of the necessity, he hesitated for
months to go under treatment, believing he
would be deprived of the pleasures of the
table. He finally, however, decided to try it
out. Not only did he begin losing weight at
once, quickly regaining his normal figure, all
signs of rheumatism disappearing, but he
found the new diet far more delicious to the
taste and afforded a much keener quality of
enjoyment than his old method of eating, and
wrote Christian a letter to that effect.
This instance of the efficacy of right
eating I have simply chosen at random from
perhaps a dozen Eugene Christian told me
of, every one of which was fully as interest-
ing and they applied to as many different
ailments. Surely this man Christian is doing
a great work.
There have been so many inquiries from
all parts of the United States from people
seeking the benefit of Eugene Christian’s
advice and whose cases he is unable to handle
personally that he has written a little course
of lessons which tells you exactly w'hat to eat
for health, strength and efficiency. This
course is published by The Corrective Eating
Society of New York and Melbourne. .
These lessons, there are 24 of them, con-
tain actual menus for breakfast, luncheon
and dinner, curative, as w r ell as corrective,
covering every condition of health and sick-
ness from infancy to ohl age and for all occu-
pations, climates and seasons.
With these lessons at hand it is just as
though you were in personal contact with
the great food specialist, because every pos-
sible point is so thoroughly covered that you
can scarcely think -of a question which isn’t
answered. You can start eating the very
things that will produce the increased
physical and mental energy you are seeking
the day you receive the lessons, and you will
find that you secure results .with the first
meal.
If you would like to examine these 24
Little Lessons in Corrective Eating, simply
write The Corrective Eating Society, 100
Flinders Street, Melbourne, or 7 Moore
Street, Sydney-. It is not necessary to
enclose any money with your request. Merely
ask them to send the lessons on five days’
trial with the understanding that you will
either return them within that time or remif
215., the small fee asked.
Please clip out and mail the following form instead of writing a letter, as this
is a copy of the blank adopted by the Society and will be honored at once.
CORRECTIVE EATING SOCIETY,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne, or
7 Moore Street, Sydney.
You may send me prepaid a copy of Corrective Eating in 24 Lessons,
remail them to you within five days or send you 21s.
Name City . . ... .. •
Address State
I will either
, B. 10S17
The Inky Way.
From The Pink ’Un :
Glazing.-—Tenders wanted for repairing and cleaning
widows. Apply Foreman, Heine’s Factory Buildings.
P.S. —It wasn’t The Pink ’Un, after ail; it
was that giddy young S. M. Herald
(8/8/’l7).
* * * *
“Norbeil”: Well, of course it’s true; but
I thought that Brisbane Courier would be
the last to mention it:—
Every man who had sat in Parliament and had
had experience of public life knew the value of
journalism to the people. They all knew it had a
large say in the mouldering of public opinion.
» * * *
The oldest newspaper in France, the
Gazette de France, born nearly 300 years
ago, has suspended publication. In the au
revoir issue, the editor intimated that the
presses would purl again when the Iluns
were beaten o.pt of the fairest land in Europe.
* 'v- * * *
From Launceston (Tas.) Examiner: —
The appointment of women police for Hobart would
not have any opposition from the members of the
farce.
The Bulletin is pained to learn that things
are as bad in Tassy as they are in Victoria.
* * * *
“Billy B.” : I thought my pal would come
to light. Brisbane Telegraph announces
him :—-
London, August S. —The King held an investiture
at Buckingham Palace to-day, _ and conferred 255
decorations, including the Victoria Cross, on Lieuten-
ant Rupert Moons.
Rupert, your health!
# * * *
“Simon”: George Burgess, whip of the
late N.S.W. Labor Government, who fol-
lowed Holman into the Nationalistcamp only
to be unhorsed at the recent elections, has
been found a job inspecting stock routes and
reserves. It recalls that Burgess once found
Holman a job. Some 24 years ago Burgess
was in charge of the South-western branch
of the A.W.U., then the A.S.U. Holman had
just stepped forth a free man after the
Daily Post trouble. The future looked very
gloomy indeed—and then Bill received a wire
offering him the position of organiser. Of
course he jumped at it, and soon was jogging
along the roads in a sulky with a pack horse
hitched behind and the Daily Post night-
mare fading farther and farther into the dis-
tance. One day he alighted by a brook to
gaze upon himself, like Narcissus, or else to
get a drink. He reckons he probably forgot
about the horses. The pack-animal, how-
ever, made the nearest pub 14 miles away
all right, but the sulky-prad, after freeing
himself, is thought to have suicided in the
bush somewhere. Another trip took Holman
away for a whole month, during which time
he rounded up a couple of thousand shearers,
rduseabouts and off-siders, and fairly talked
them into a solid, silent and concrete mass.
Several of ’em even offered him their jobs.
Burgess heard Holman’s report of all this in
silence, then asked, “How many tickets did
you issue?” “Tickets?” said Holman. “I
didn’t know I had to attend to details like
that.” The “details” (at 20s. each) were
the very existence of the organisation, of
course. Bill has worked more or less on the
same lines ever since.
« * # #
“Peg-Leg”: Just-dead Robert Scobie,
M.L.A., was as hard a proposition as ever
faced the gallery. He didn’t speak; he
rumbled, boomed and brrrred from the depths
of his waistcoat, and even if the men on the
floor understood, him, all that came up to
the boys resembled a trombone aggravating
the low notes. That’s why he got less space
than worse men who had occupied a seat for
only a month. Incidentally the man we used
to call in as interpreter when Scobie spoke
was musical critic on one of the dailies.
* * * *
“N.E.W.”: The attempt to find rhymes
for “orange,” “silver,” “meadow,” “window,”
“chimney” and some others has exercised
the ingenuity of many verse-carpenters.
“Orange” and “silver” would seem to be
absolutely rhymeless. Horace Smith made
“slim knee” rhyme with “chimney,” and
“D.McC.” (B. 5/7/’l7) seems to think that
in “sinn’d so” he has found a rhyme for
“window.” I think he should see an ear-
specialist. Austin Dobson had a try at
“window,” and this is the best he could do:
.... as only one’s feminine kin do,
Some muslin-clad Mabel or May; —
There now! I’ve broken the window !
Bluebottle’s off and away.
I guess I can do better than that myself:—
A RHYME AND A RECIPE.
Take 6f eggs from a dozen to twenty,
Arid whisll to a froth in a bowl,
Adding raisins and currants and plenty
Of brandy to flavor the whole;
With some flour to make dough — very thin dough
Then#tir it and sweeten and bake,
And yoirll have, with a rhyme for your window,
An excellent cake.
I have some doubt about the recipe, but I
think the rhyme’s all right.
ON APPEARANCES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“They were farmers and the sons of farmers —
men who had gone with stout hearts and keen-bladed
axes into what would appear to the townsman to be
the impenetrable recesses of the marsupial section of
the animal kingdom. The forests had fallen at their
bidding.” —Sydney D.T. on the Volunteer Workers.
It would appear... .Nay, what would it appear?
They went with axes keen and stubborn heart,
They told the forests in their might to clear
That they might tear the kangaroos apart;
And the impenetrable wombat broke
Before the force of their heroic stroke.
It would appear that in their splendid zeal
The wallaby was rent from stem to stern ;
And, punctured grandly with their fearless steel,
The whole marsupial section had to learn
That no recces was free from these bold men
Who wore the bowyang and the number 10.
It would appear.... nay,. let the thing appear.
What must be will be, sages all agree.
Their corded muscles in their strength uprear
The goods some merry ship may bear to sea....
“Hut that impenetrable paragraph
Mooes through the section like an ink-gorged calf.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


keep
the home
tyres
turning!
M illions of British Money are going
abroad to pay for foreign tyres. Britain
needs this money to win the war*
Is any of your money going ?
To buy foreign tyres to-day
is unpatriotic. Foreign
tyres increase Britain's debt
abroad. They lower the
exchange value of the
British sovereign. They
hurt Britain's credit.
The supplies of British-
made tyres are ample for
all needs. Moseley tyres
are British - m a d e .
Keep them turning!
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer.
If you find any difficulty in obtaininy
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams: “Great’,” Sydney.
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES,
C.W. H.
"MILLER”
LIGHTING FIXTURES AND LAMPS
No. L 2318
Electric — Gas—Oil
When you ask for a "Miller”
Lamp no matter whether of
the Electric, Gas or Oil variety,
you are exercising good taste and
judgment and are assured of the
very best obtainable.
Styles for all requirements
Look oyer the "Miller” line NOW.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER £f COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
Bengers Food Ltd.,
regret to announce that in consequence of GOVERNMENT
LIMITATIONS placed upon EXPORTS they are unable to
keep their Overseas friends fully supplied at present.
Immediately these restrictions are removed every effort
will be made to send out sufficient stocks to meet all demand.
Any communications on this subject should be addressed to our Sydney Office.
Food
is in great demand for Civil, Military, and Red Cross
Hospitals, an 1 in Convalescent and Nursing Institutions.
From a Captain of the Royal Army Medical Corps.
"Your For d was of sir.at assistance to me in my treatment of convalescent dysentery eases.*’
BENGHR'S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117. Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at NEW York (U.S.A.) 90, Beekman St. Depots throughout CANADA.
535 a
'hrj.Sfi
V''
, ■ <
,, *
l' '■'■■; .. . ; - 1 "
Sporting'
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you'll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
“A marvel at the priqc
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
barrel: open rear and .knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
13/6
"Splendid for till small yame.'’
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 18P7
24in. octagon barrel. 22 calibre rim fl ro
takes 2 o short. 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight. IIV
take-down. Carriage paid '
Model.
magazine
hardened
9 51-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
W. ■—Ji
■ ra
“Suitable for small game and target shooting .”
80. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine bolds 15 short. 15
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate: 20in. round
barrel; length oter all, 35in.; weight, 4Jlb; slide action. A S. I—
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage—N.S.tV., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
“A good rifle at a moderate price.'"
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre. 22in. barrel; weight, 4flb.;
length over all. 39in.; open front and rear sights
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage— N.S.AV., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
380
37/0
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy .”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 190 t»
Model, 10-shot. HOin. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about of lb.
65/-
"-Simple and extra strong in construction .”
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle. 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21iu. heavy round slool barrel
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b -
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
35
JW'SPORTING REPAIRS
SPECIALTY.
“A suitable weapon for the boy."
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
22/6
Owing to market fluctuations, the prices here quoted only hold good
for two weeks from date.
as
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles
837. Remington Automatic
Rifle, Model 16, 22 calibre, take-down action, long
inches. Magazine holds ir> cartridges. Weight s}lb
Delivered.
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 39/3 1000: 4/.
riease note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
on the market.
Hammerless
th of barrel 22
*e,6-
100.
-1 perfect rahbiter's rifle.
1*36. Remington Hamnierless Repeating Rifle.
Mode] 12, 22 calibre, solid bree«h. side ejectn".
straight grip. 21in. round barrel, bandies 15 short, 12 long nr
11 long rifle
front sights:
cartridges; adjustable
weight. 41] b
rear
and open
Delivered
7 51-
SUNOLTOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt
11d. post free
B7. Stevens’ Favorite Kilie, 22 calibre
barrel case-hardened frame, solid breech
action; weight, about 4ilb. ’
11. P.
block
round 24in.
under lever
l’ited with open Front and Sporting Rear Sight
fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Si°-ht
Same rifle, but 22 W.R.F, 25 or 52' calibres'
2/(» extra.
30/-
. 42/6
/ 1 In sir a ted Fire or ms
(j I aide (Catalogi,r 11.
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
oo ) . **.*■*•-, inchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
-a no re. rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger r
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 2Jlb 27/0
iiie above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight... .3o/-
.1 ostage— N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
W Npo rts List (Catalogue Bl), also “Bure Catch ” Anglers'
ost Ic< ai, U address. Write for one or both lists. Then
are moneu sneers.
L/C
• •
>■ i
AUSTRALIA'S greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
nm> TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
llDKinti St, also at
Tiewcasik d Brisbane


TWO FAVORITES
Gwen Burroughs and Rexona
Rexona Pty. Company,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —You have heard
that I have been using Rexona
and Rexona Soap. This is quite
true, and I want to tell you
what I think of them. -They
are both simply excellent. I
always keep a pot of Rexona on
my dressing-table, and consider
it simply indispensable. 1
always use it after surfing, and
find it simply splendid for sun-
burn and for preserving the
skin.
As for Rexona Soap, it is
wonderful how lovely it makes
the hair, so soft and silky, and
it is so refreshing. I think
every girl should use Rexona
Soap, and 1 am sure I shall
never miss an opportunity of
recommending both Rexona and
Rexona Soap.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.)
GWEN DAY BURROUGHS.
*
;V
r
::
III:/ j
GWEN BURROUGHS
(from a photo).
Miss Gwen Burroughs, who is an accomplished actress as well as a beautiful
woman, is a favorite with Australian audiences. Miss Burroughs delighted
patrons of the Criterion Theatre in the various roles in which she appeared during
the recent Marie Tempest season. Miss Burroughs is a strong advocate for
Rexona and Rexona Soap—she has used them both.
EVERYBODY’S USING IT NOW.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values
a pure and healthy skin. Rexona will at once heal all the minor injuries to the
skin, as well as the more serious ones, and Rexona Soap protects the user from
disease, and insures both health and beauty. Rexona Soap is sold everywhere at
1 /- per tablet, and Rexona is supplied only in triangular tins at I/O and 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
$
■p\o YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
\vhen you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood. . f
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to periorm
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron 'Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Or. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron Jelloids the
“most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6; WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . • IRON Ao. 2A,
For Anosmia in Women . . • IRON JELLOIDS No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS No. I.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1 6. Laric size 3/ .
hmMMm
——ssajSa
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES —
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
I/O ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON. 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
PRITCHARD & CO , 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
who will forward, post free,
3h»
*l4n
m.
The Turn of the Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"VHERE confident, calm I strode,
\ \ I walk with hesitant feet;
For at yonder turn of the road
What shall I meet?
The youth of the day has gone,
And my shadow goes before ;
I know that the road runs on—
I know no more.
I have travelled a goodly way.
As one at a glance may see,
Since the East and the break o’ day
Called out to me.
Though the highway be hard to miss
With its signs and stones and such,
The worst of the road is this —
It turns too much.
For a part of its length it flows
(Too brief is that stretch, alas!)
’Twixt hedges of palm and rose,
O’er fern and grass.
There Follies flutter and flit,
And Fancies, fleeting and frail,
And a host of roysterers sit
At cakes and ale.
The Follies fade with the hour,
The Fancies dwindle and die;
And the nectared heart of the flower
In time grows dry.
The cakes and the ale are done,
Apd the roysterer’s moment gone;
Rut under the slanting sun
The road winds on.
Good-bye to rose and fern,
And the hedges at each grass-side !
Who knows at the next road-turn
What pleasures bide?
What pleasures? ’Tis turned, and lo !
Hot miles and a driving dust
’Twixt trees that are grey as woe,
Gnarled limbs out-thrust!
Yet Hope is a bright allure,
A light in the hearts of men—-
At the end of a league, for sure,
’Twill turn again.
Though the highway be hard to miss
With its signs and stones and such,
The best of the road is this—
It turns so much !
Towards the turn of the roadway yon
I walk with hesitant feet;
When I come to the turn anon —
What shall I meet?
N.s.W.
RODEBIC QUINN.
Mr. Belchamber.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UP above Sydney Bay the great pine-
trees stirred their horizontal
branches softly in the gentle nor’-
eastei’, and the green hills and valleys of the
island seemed to sleep through the after-
noon sunshine.
Mr. Dumaresq Belchambor paused in his
work on the hillside, and refreshed his
meaty soul with long and meditative staring
across the l'oofs of the settlement, and the
soldiers’ barracks, and the two rectangular
enclosures of the old gaol, and the men. and
the white line of surf on the reef, and the
deeply-blue sea —into the world that lay
beyond the round rim of the horizon.
He did not see Kingstown, or little
Nepean, or the high hump of Phillip Island
to the south, or any part of the lovely and
lonely Paradise Lost in which lie stood.
Norfolk Island did not exist for Mr. Bel-
chamber whilst he stared out over the edge
of the sunlit world of waters, and out of
IS4G into 1844, and into London Town
where it crushes about Change Alley and
out along the valley of the Thames, green
and beautiful, below Richmond Ilill.
He saw Ranelagh, and Cremorne Gardens,
and Newmarket, and a little house at
Hampstead, with a frail and fair occupant.
He saw the coffee-room at White’s, he saw
Piccadilly and Pall Mall, and the changing
of the guard at St. James’s Palace. He saw
the Brighton road, and Sussex in the sum-
mer-time, and the Ship Inn. He saw the
sour face of Mr. Sergeant Foljambe, for the
prosecution, when he handed the forged
cheque to the foreman of the jury at the Old
Bailey, and the grim one of Mr. Justice
Horwood, Recorder of London, as he sen-
tenced him, Dumaresq Belcliamber, for life,
lie saw all these things, and many others -
as a man may when he stares over the
edge of the world. But he did not see the
huge form and the damnable face, with side-
whiskers, of Head-Constable Zachary Brad-
shaw as he stole along the hillside behind
him.
Round the western end of Phillip Island
the white sails of a brig gleamed, quite sud-
denly. against' the deep blue of the sea and
the light blue of the sky, and she curtseyed
and danced across the waters on her last
slant but one before, beating up against the
steady breeze, she should drop her anchor in
the patch of good holding ground opposite
Government House.
The unexpected sight of the Government
brig from Hobart Town —mails and prison-
ers—brought Mr. Belchambor back to Nor-
folk Island and IS4G. It brought him back
to the fact that he was on the hillside, with
an axe in his hand, for the purpose of cut-
ting firewood out of a fallen pine-tree for the
kitchen fire of his master, Lieutenant Bag-
shott of the 96th-wthe same Sammy Bag-
shott whom lie had ciccroncd in London in
’43, before that gentleman had found it
expedient to exchange out of the Guards
into a marching regiment, as a means of
countering the importunities of other gentle-
men with hooked noses and Old Testament
surnames: the same kindly Sammy Bag-
shott who had generously rewarded Mr.
Belehamber’s former patronage in the some-
what exclusive circle in which he had moved
iu London, by extending his own patronage
to Mr. Belchamber when the latter came,
hideously ironed, to Norfolk Island. Mr.
Belchamber sighed and turned round to
resume his chopping, and was immediately
seized by the throat and kicked in the groin
by Head-Constable Zachary Bradshaw.
It was a gi'ip of iron that he felt com-
pressing his windpipe and his carotid and
his jugular, and forcing his tongue out
through his open jaws, and he was aware of
the hideous countenance of the ex-convict
constable close to his face, and smelled his
hot, rank breath, as that pillar of discipline
.gaped down his throat, ere he flung him
away with a curse.
“Ye b —d, ye!” bellowed Mr. Brad-
shaw. “I’ve got ye now, ye dog—l’ve got
ye. Ye’ve bin chewin’ baccy! I’ve got ye.
I’ll learn ye who’s who, ye carr’on! I’ll
learn ye t’ git y’r lootinant t’ git me a
riprimarnd. Here's th’ bit I found in y’r
dirty gob—an’ here’s th’ stick it come off.
So now, ye b —d, so now!”
The constable took a half-chewed morsel
from his own mouth, and held it up before
gasping Mr. Belchamber. From his ti’ouser
pocket he drew half a plug of the black
tobacco which was issued weekly to the
prisoners, and which they might smoke or
chew in the Lumber Yard during meal
hours, but nowhere else, and at no other
time —under penalty of the Civil Command-
ant’s Court, and its inevitable sequence of
the triangles. And the convict constables
had the right to assail prisoners—as Mr.
Bradshaw had assailed Mr. Belchamber—
wheresoever and whensoever they chose to
look into their gaping mouths for the
“track,” as the nicotine stain on the tongues
of those who chewed was humorously termed.
The track was conclusive evidence.
Mr. Belchamber neither smoked nor
chewed. Nevertheless, he was perfectly well
aware that Head-Constable Bradshaw had a
clear case against him, as clear cases went
in the island, and that no protest on earth
would save him from the flogger and from a
return to the gaol-gang. And this last con-
sideration was the one that drove him mad.
For this is what it meant.
Instead of sleeping in the kitchen at the
back of Sammy Bagshott’s quarters he
would be locked each night, at seven o’clock,
into one of the sleeping wards of the prison,
with seventy or eighty of the dreadful crea-
tures whose manhood had been blotted out
by the System of Norfolk Island—there to
remain until five next morning. If you have
read Havelock Ellis, or Kraft-Ebing, you
will understand the meaning of this. It
cannot be explained here.
So Mr. Belchamber went mad. And Mr.
Bradshaw’s Nemesis prompted him to jeer
at the madman.
“So ye see, ye chicken-livered b —d, ye
done y’self no good. We’ll put th’ cross-
marks on y’r back, an’ ye’ll sleep in the
Gaol —in number one ward. We’ll see how
ye like that, ye swell! We’ll see how
long ’tis till th’ gang takes t’ callin’ ye Miss
Fanny. A fine day, me Lord Belchamber,
ain’t it? A fine”
It was Mr. Bradshaw’s last worldly obser-
vation. The broad-bladed axe flashed in the
sunlight, and when they lifted him in the
morning one side of his bullet head flopped
over on his shoulder, and some of his very
inferior cerebral tissue was spilled upon the
grass.
* * * *
The Bight Reverend Robert William Will-
son, D.D., Roman Catholic Bishop of Hobart
Town, excellent priest and good man, sat in
the stern-sheets of the first boat that came
ashore from the Governor Phillip on the
following morning. As - the convict crew
rested on their oars whilst the coxswain, hav-
ing got the two trees on Nepean Island in
their proper alignment, waited the psycholo-
gical moment to yell “Give way!” so that
the boat might shoot in past the end of the
reef on the crest of a roller, Dr. Everett, the
principal medical-officer of the establishment,
inquired of Major Childs, the Civil Com-
mandant —an anxious man with a worried
expression—“ Who’s the Devil-dodger,
Major?”
The Commandant frowned —perhaps at the
form of the question.
“Most unfortunate, Doctor —I think it’s
Bishop Willson.”
“O Lord —and Bradshaw’s not buried !”
“No —-most unfortunate business.”
Major Childs was the kind of man to
whom most things are “unfortunate.” He
knew that he was "unfortunate” in his posi-
tion —unlike his successor of the following
year, the redoubtable John Price, who felt
that it was the height of his good fortune to
make everyone else on the Island realise that
they were unfortunate —and deplored all
things accordingly.
The Commandant met the Bishop at the
top of the landing steps, and received his
letters of introduction from the Governor of
Van Diemen’s Land and the Comptroller of
Convicts. lie broke the seals hastily, and
glanced at them.
“A hearty welcome. Bishop.” he said, with
an attempt at geniality which was a dull
failure. “We shall endeavor to make your
stay pleasant.” he added lamely.
The Bishop’s smile was genial, and his
strong face lit up as he replied to this
greeting.
“I hope so. Major Childs —I hope it may
be. Certainly, your island is a lovely spot,
a gem of the ocean. But my mission to it
is less one of pleasure than of endeavor.”
“Now, what the devil does he mean by
that?” grumbled Dr. Everett to himself, as
he walked up the pier behind them.
It was not long before the Commandant
realised that the Bishop had not visited the
island for the good of bis health, or in any
spirit of whole-souled admiration for the
convict administration of Van Diemen’s
Land -and its dependencies. While they were
(Continued on next page.)


YOU CAN ALWAYS TELL THE
MAN WITH KIDNEY TROUBLE.
The man with kidnev trouble
j
is cheerless in expression, sal-
low and heavv-eved. His
j J
back troubles him day and
night —spoils his sleep, and
makes him dizzy and faint
after the slightest exertion.
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills make the kidneys well;
they are the one medicine
that is especially for kidney
and bladder troubles- —the
one medicine that cures men
and women, and protects
them against such advanced
kidney complaints as Bright’s
Disease, Diabetes, Dropsy,
Rheumatism, etc.
jEv'ery ture
7b//s A Sfor
&rt
*
S
\
lL" J
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Serious Kidney
Trouble.
Inflammation of the
Kidneys.
Sydney Man Cured After
Long Suffering.
Mr. George Woodroffe, 10 Roseby Street, Drum'-
moyne, Sydney, says: “1 have derived very great
benefit from the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills-
Seventeen years ago a cold settled on my kidneys, and
eventually inflammation of the kidneys and bladder
set in, and up to the time of taking Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, some months ago, I suffered terribly.
I have been treated by some of the cleverest and best-
known Sydney doctors, and was for seventeen and a
half weeks in the Sydney Hospital, where I had one
kidney removed. Though the various treatments
eased me for a time I was not cured, and would soon
relapse into my former ill-health. I also tried patent
medicines advertised to cure kidney complaint, and
they did not even give me temporary relief. W
brother was always worrying me to try Doan’s Baek-
ache Kidney Pills, if I ‘only took one bottle. To
please him I got them, and before I had finished the
bottle I felt much better; in fact, I had not felt so
well for years; the pills were working wonders for
me. I continued taking them, and am now perfectly
cured of every symptom of kidney trouble.”
Mr. Woodroffe confirms the above eleven years
later: “My cure has lasted, for I am still free of
the terrible torture of kidney and bladder trouble.
If I ever feel the slightest pain near my kidneys 1
take a few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney rd ls >
and they never fail to relieve me at one .”
m't
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
seated at dinner that evening, Dr. Willson
was at some pains to make this evident.
It was a small party. Major Harold, the
officer commanding the three companies of
the 96th Regiment which garrisoned the set-
tlement, the Rev. Mr. Rogers, senior Roman
Catholic chaplain, the Bishop and tbe Com-
mandant made it up. There was to be a
kind of state dinner on Saturday night, to
extend an official welcome to the eminent
churchman—who would have beejl genuinely
welcome had he been more of a churchman
and less of a reformer and philanthropist—
and this present was an informal affair.
The talk was of the System. That was
one of the System’s peculiarities—it monopo-
lised the mental processes of all who had
to do with it. The Bishop’s inquiry on a
point concerning the fruit-growing capabili-
ties of the island had elicited a complaint
from Major Harold to the effect that certain
prisoners, unknown, were raiding his orange-
trees. And this led to a succession of anec-
dotes, humorous and otherwise, of the preda-
tory habits of prisoners. The Bishop realised
that, if the prisoners could not escape from
Norfolk Island, Norfolk Island could not
escape from the prisoners. So he l’esigned
himself to the inevitable, and discussed con-
victs, with a knowledge that the Comman-
dant found almost embarrassing.
“The poor men !” he sighed. “Do you
know, Major, I often feel that the rest of us
are very lucky?”
“Lucky! How so, Bishop?”
“That we have not been found out—or we
might be here, too.”
“Thrue for you, me Lord,” assented Father
Rogers, sipping his port.
“I am very interested,” the Bishop went
on, “in a case you have here. A young
man, who has sinned undeniably, but wffio has
been fortunate in having influential friends
at home —friends who have been able to
make interest on his behalf with the Queen
herself, and consequently, of course, with
the Secretary of State. So much so,
that Sir Eardley Wilmot has en-
trusted me with a pardon for him, which,
in accordance with his Excellency’s instruc-
tions, Major, I will hand to you in the morn-
ing, when I have unpacked my baggage. A
young man of good family—a nephew of
Lord Dumaresq. One Belchamber —you will
know of him, of course?”
“Belchamber!” gasped the Commandant,
staring at the Bishop.
“Belchamber! Oh, th’ howly saints pre-
sarve us!” muttered Father Rogers.
“Belchamber ! Good heavens !” ejaculated
Major Harold.
There was a silence for a few moments,
whilst the Bishop looked from one to the
other of his companions, a little astonished
at the evident consternation his mention of
the man Belchamber had produced amongst
them. At length, deeming himself more
unfortunate than ever, the Commandant
spoke. But not before the Bishop had in-
quired wonderingly:
“Why, what’s the matter?”
“Well, you see. Bishop—the fact is—er—
it is very unfortunate. This young man
Belchamber —a well-conducted prisoner, I
think I may say, Father Rogqys? You knew
him, I think.”
“I did. Not wan of me flock. But I knew
him. A dacint lad—more’s th’ pity.”
“He was Bagshott’s servant,” put in Major
Harold. “Bagshott swore by him.”
“Was?” questioned the Bishop, mystified.
The Commandant hastened to explain.
“You see, Bishop, this man Belchamber,
very unfortunately, yesterday, had occasion
to murder —that is to say, he did murder —-
one of the constables. The head-constable,
to be precise. And then he absconded to the
bush. Parties have been searching for him
all day—without success. But this after-
noon his hat was found on the edge of a
cliff near Anson Bay. I feel certain —we all
feel certain —that the wretched man has
jumped into the sea—has committed suicide.
Every inch of the island has been searched.
Perhaps it was best. A little more wine,
Bishop?”
“God rest his soul,” said the Bishop in a
low tone. “And his victim.”
“Amen !” said Father Rogers aloud, and,
to himself: “’Tis little rest that blackguard
Bradshaw will be after gettin’.”
“Your news has a little upset me, Major.
I knew this young man’s people. They lived
near Nottingham, where I worked for many
years. I think, with your permission, I will
retire. It is very sad.”
“Most unfortunate!” sighed the Com-
mandant.
For five days the good Bishop investigated
Norfolk Island, and by the end of that time
had come to a conclusion that Norfolk
Island and Hell were synonymous terms.
Perhaps in no time in its history had the
place been in a worse condition. The well-
meant. and wilfully obstructed, experiment
in kindness and commonsense which Captain
Machonochie had been permitted to attempt
in the administration of the penal settlement
had proved a disastrous failure —though,
judging it seventy years afterwards, it is
difficult not to agree with the disappointed
Machonochie that it might well have suc-
ceeded had it only received more sympathetic
and intelligent backing from the Administra-
tion in Hobart Town. The best and most
successful prison system in the British Em-
pire to-day is that of New South Wales, and,
if you study it, you will find that it is very
largely that of Captain Machonochie, R.N.
Major Childs —a well-meaning, rather
weak man, and too much of a gentleman for
such work —was reaping the fruits of Mach-
onochie’s failure. Discipline was bad, crime
was bad —unnatural crime was awful—and
the place w T as a blot on civilisation. Bishop
Willson has left in on record that Major
Childs said to him as he was about to
depart: “You are going home. For God’s
sake tell them the truth about this place!”
Dr. Willson did tell a select committee of
the House of Lords the truth, and to the day
of his death was always certain that the best
of his life’s work was done when he brought
about the abandonment of Norfolk Island as
a prison settlement.
Sick at heart, the Bishop gave himself a
holiday, and, refusing companionship, took
some lunch in his pocket and set out to ex-
plore Mount Pitt, lie had much to think
over, and a seething memory of horrors that
he wished-he might forget.
He passed through the station at Long-
ridge, skirted some of the fern-smothered
ravines and gullies about its base, and
ascended the hill by the spur along which
the bridle-path runs to-day. Mount Pitt is
only a little over a thousand feet in height,
but the view from the summit is magnificent.
There is blue sea all round, as you get it
from a masthead, and, at your feet, eight
thousand of the most beautiful acres in all
the world. As he stood gazing from the hill-
top, the Bishop felt that the beauty of the
world he looked N upon, and drank in great
draughts, almost washed away the evil taste
the same world had left in his soul.
“I say!” said someone behind him, in a
weak voice.
Startled by this interruption of his soli-
tude, the Bishop looked round.
At the edge of the little space that had
been cleared on the summit crouched a gaunt
figure, too weak to stand erect. Hollow-
eyed, unshaven, clad in the rags of the rough
convict uniform, hatless and tousle-headed,
Mr. Belchamber glared with dim eyes at the
Bishop.
“Food !” he croaked. “Food !”
Without a word, the Bishop took the pack-
age of sandwiches from his pocket, walked
towards the unhappy man. and held it out.
With his teeth Mr. Belchamber tore the nap-
kin from it, and wolfed the bread and meat
in gulps, like a famished dog. Great bolts
of it nearly choked him. When it w T as gone
he collapsed on his face in the grass, his head
pillowed on his arms, and sobbed in silent
spasms that it hurt the Bishop to watch. He
said nothing for a little time. Then he
stooped over the convict and laid a friendly
hand upon his shoulder.
“You are,” he spoke gently, almost whis-
pering—“you are Dumaresq Belchamber?”
The man looked up, and then rose to a sit-
ting position, supporting himself with one
hand.
“I was—l used to be,” he said, “when I
was alive.”
“And you killed this man Bradshaw?”
“Yes.”
Infinite pity surged through the Bishop—-
sorrow for the bitter ill-luck of the thing
because the Governor Phillip brig had not
brought him with the pardon a day sooner
to the island. There was no pardon now.
Nor would he tell him of it. The unhappy
man must suffer. The Bishop saw it all.
In three days’ time, if he were captured, he
would sail back to Hobart Town with the
Bishop, to stand his trial. Not many days
after that he w r ould die the shameful, miser-
able death that the Bishop had seen so
many men die. Better to die now—infinitely
better. But the Bishop could not counte-
nance self-destruction. Neither could he kill
the man himself.
“They will hang you,” he whispered.
The miserable man looked up. and the
Bishop caught a light in his eyes, that some-
how relieved him.
“They will not!” said Mr. Belchamber.
“God help you, my son,” said the Bishop
holding out his hand and grasping the weak
one which Mr. Belchamber extended f, ~
God receive your soul!” t( * ee My.
lie retained the hand a moment and iv
lips moved in prayer. Then he turned
strode hurriedly over the brow 0 f ail(1
mit and down the bridle-path * le BUll >-
“God forgive me,” he muttered-“but r
have done right! uut f
They found Mr. Belchamber that aft
noon ; but it made no difference to Mr R '
chamber. . * ' r e >-
J. H. M. ABBOTT,
The Wooing-.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
s nn' VAS the Spring in the air
And a laughter that ran
Over Moina’s black hair
To the heart of a man;
With the thorn-bush in leaf
And the wet clover green—
Och, April, you thief,
Is it love that you mean?
’Twas her mother’s white goat
On the side of the hill
And the rain on my coat
With the sun laughing still,
And the thought of her eyes—
Sure, my heart is a gift,
In the black of surprise,
When her eyelashes lift!
’Twas the word that I spoke
With the wind blowing clear
And the small sob that broke
In my throat full of fear.
“Och. Danny,” she said,
“There’s the white cream to set
And the pigs to be fed
And you’re plaguing me yet!”
Would she slide past the door?
Och, her tongue was too wise;
But I listened far more
To the look in her eyes—
“ Sure, stay and be kist.”
But she turned by the wall
With a fine-lady twist
Of her head and her shawl.
’Twas the Spring in the air
And the green of the world,
And the black of her hair
Set me mad where it curled.
“Och, Moina, come out,
Girl of dreams, and be kist”—
But she hit me a clout
With the white of her fist.
Would she slide past the door?
Sure, her mouth w r as too red,
With the cheek of me sore
And those eyes in her head.
Troth, I kist her too well—
Twenty times at the least.
“Now. Danny, we’ll tell
A small word to the priest.” s
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.


WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE
AUSTRALASIA LTD.
•»
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
if™ Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
AM (KCCIUHf pyflT
fHESEBROUGH MFC
YORK
T>*d« Mark Registered
Pomade
A delicately perfum-
ed hair dressing
which stimulates the
roots of the hair and
prevents dandruff.
Sold in glass bottles
and tin tubes at all
chemists and general
stores. Refuse sub-
stitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A,
London Montreal Moscow
Tti@ StMMtord Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SING *-^ TO < N ’ S EYE OINTMENT.
1 he Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
JJsed since ISiffi. CURES wrire tnr »
i UST G®N N B 2I G o HT ’, FAL k LI^ G E r YE 4 SH^ S - WEAK sight!
< insE?’ 0 n refuse’ all*Bubstitut^. S * an^'
/
V
• •
« f
p=L
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth,
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
tyCARBOUC|!
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO,
Manchester, Eng,
i
m
m
#
tV
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain —known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “jump”
—you get irritable—you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
The Wine of Lite
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
‘ Wincarnis ’ for ‘ Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis' is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis' from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. ♦Time tells
all things” says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10£d (36 pills), 1/1 £ (56 pills) & 2/9 (IGB pills).
fieminpofi
.44 Cal.
Repeating
Rifle —
T/0&
r
V\
A 4
may
JBS.I3ATOQ
mmm
Proportionate to
their size and power the .44
caliber cartridges are the lowest in
price. They are universally used
and will give excellent results with
the Remington UMG .44 caliber
Repeating Rifle.
Write for a fecial descriptive
booklet sent free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
K
*9
PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIP
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
NELSON g ROBERTSON,
*
Loft ns Street,
SYDNEY.
1
jn
ns
mm
cm
■
(Sgp
thoroughly British—and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents: HAMMOND (SL CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents : QLD. MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street Brisbane
Victorian Agents: H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: GIBBS, BRIGHT &, CO., Adelaide.


Bma N grovitell
a
LEATHER
IS UNSURPASSED IN DUALITY.
"MAMjUUV ITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Rplting. is often referred to by users. who«e
transmission troubles have been overcome bv
it alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured onlv In
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Lata Charles Ludowicl,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advloe and Price List on application.
supplied
in CC7AGCN ard
CRUC'FORM SOLD SECTIO N,
HEXAGON and ROUND HOLLO# SECTIOIS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgooriie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane,
AVM
aims
.JXIKiSW,. 3HI
It is Cheaper, Better,
and Sanitary.
FIBROLITEi
The Australian-made
Asbestos Cement Sheets
can be used for interior or exterior use, anti
at a cost much lower, than Weatherboard.
“Fibrolite” is Fire-, Damp-, Decay- and
Vermin-proof, and reduces painting expenses
by 01 e third. Insurance Rates on “Fibrolite”
are also 25% less than on wood.
Write for Catalogue “D.”
James HtriieflCo. Ltd..
CIRCULAR QUAY WEST, S V DMEY.
'Phone 6239 (3 lines).
WOLFES
Acts directly and
pleasantly upon
;:^rr
mra
tumiimi mt iti
•iuum
•••»» ••mm mint
Schnapps
the bladder and
the kidneys.
Machinery
Department
MILLER'S POtNT.SYiNEY
High-grade & Popular Agencies, comprising: the following: lines—
Tangye Portable oil Engine.
TAN3YE Lampless Oil E.iginas, Benzine Engines. Steam
Engines.
TAN3/H Boilers, Suction Gas Plant?, Pumps, Jacks, etc,
CLAYTON & SHUT! LEWORTH Portab.e Steam and Traction
Engines.
WO'-SiLEYS ieeo Machines & Cream Separators.
HIGH JLS3N & M3RHW Farm Implements.
JOrli>l BUNGLE & S)Ni 0 laffoutcsr? & Corn C 'ushers.
E.R.B. Separator Engines. CANE Milling Machines.
m
Slayton Portabla Stsam Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
• Buncte Travelling Chaffcutter.
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
prevent breakdowns
The severest practical trials have shown that the
“Wolseley” Sheep Shearing Machines are best under all
conditions. They ensure a greater yield of profit and
are the world’s standard.
Look well into the future and decide to instal a
“Wolseley” machine.
Full details obtainable from
Dalgety & Company, Lid.i Australasian Agents— All Branches.
£i
:
■
Encourag'e Local Enterprise
DODGE HPROVED ROCKBREAKERS
With Manganese Steel daw Plates
We are now manufacturing these Machines locally (with the exception of the Jaw
Plates), where formerly they were imported from America.
Experience has enabled us to improve the design. and, where a fine and uniform product
is required, such as to CRUSHING ROLLS, HUNTINGTON MILLS, &c M they are unequalled.
Four Sizes carried in Stock. Capacity I —l 2 Tons per hour.
Larger Sizes to Order. Write for Full Descriptive Circular.
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
KEROSENE MOTOR TRUCKS
THE WICHITA FALLS MOTOR COMPANY, TEXAS,
Have, after exhaustive experiments, perfected a Kerosene Carburetter which is perfectly satisfactory and
very economical.
THE WICHITA TRUCKS are solidly and honestly built and are sold at very reasonable prices.
We ask you to compare values before deciding what truck you will buy.
Full particulars furnished on application to
N. GUTHRIDCE LTD., City Office: Equitable Building, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
