

'DESITIT-A. The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. O-. WATKINS & 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
wSs*[
1
S'*
m
On all Classes oF Security
BID/XjS DISCOUNTED
Easylerms Interest
NSWWOMTDE HETED&KYEFP
HEAD OFFICE'.74 CASTLEREAGH SflF SYDNEY 74.
186
159
Street,
Street West,
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
dc
' Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenti/”
VALUABLE FDR TAN ,
AND SUNBURN [
r Made in Australia b\/ ]
fUraCKSTEARKSC?
SYDNEY.
\
, Take it back.*
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pinc-Appic Brand
gd
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
J'u
g
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
i
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
a
ĝsdf
——the roofing that is
“not the same as others.”
And the difference is ail in favor of your getting Malthoid.
Prominent architects use, specify and recommend it; withstands the severest tests of service;
resists fire; unaffected by the worst weather. Malthoid means REAL efficiency and economy.
Write NOW for interesting booklet and samples, post free.
U4toC
(D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L~
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL 6c AGRICULTURAL. ENGINEERS. _
RAIL-WAV ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL 8c FARM WAGGONS. IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
p
MACHINERY
“Robey” High-class Steam Engines, “National” Gas, Oil anil Suction Gas
Engines, Steam Waggons, Road Graders, Scoops and Plows, Nestable Corru-
gated Metal Culverts, Concrete Mixers, Discus Church Onran Blowers, Malleable
Pipe Fittings, etc., etc. ALSO MODERN MACHINERY FOR Road Building,
Earth Handling, Elevating and Conveying, Stone Breaking and Pumping and
Irrigating. Drawings and Suggestions gratis upon receipt of Requirements.
Head Office: Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a ftense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 38.—N0. 1932.]
[Thursday, February 22, 19 L 7.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W ., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOW READY
THE FIRST VOLUME OF SiR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE’S
“British Campaign in France and Flanders, 1914.”
Price 8/0, posted 8/10.
Other Volumes of Special Interest dealing with the Great War.
Little Grey Ships, by J. J. Bell, 3/6; posted 3/8.
Somme Battle Stories, by Capt. A. J. Dawson, 3/6; posted 3/8.
The Grand Fleet, by H. C. Ferraby, 3/6; posted 3/8.
False Witness. The Authorised Translation of “Klofcke Boland," by Johannes Jorgensen
4/6; posted 4/9. ’
Gallipoli, by John Masefield, 3/6; posted 3/8.
The Bible and the Future of Britain, by Marr Murray, 3/6; posted 3/8.
Nelson’s Map Book of the WOBID-WIDB WAB, 50 pages of New, Bold Maps, and a Diary
of the War, 2/-; posted 2/2.
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George Street, SYDNEY; and at Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER
imustdie:
NON POISONOUS POWDER.
TO GREAT WSECT DEfIM/S
( Flies.
) Fleas,
j Bugs.
I Mosquitoes
MU
ghbdf
“MUStdie:”
Certain Death to All Insects.
F'ull directions with each Tin.
Burn it—that’s one way.
Sprinkle with the “MUSTDIE” Blower
—that’s the other way.
But even a small quantity dusted
on the pillow at bedtime will effect-
ually keep away Mosquitoes.
The “MUSTDIE’’ Blower is recommended to
be used, for it is not only economical, but the
powder is distributed more effectively, and we
want you to get the best results out of every
ounce of the powder.
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, 9d. per Tin.
FREE TRlAL.—Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H,
Box 1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and sample tin will
be sent post free; or forward 9d. in stamps for
a full -size tin.
The Red Page
Hodge
I sing the Man, I sing the Plow,
Ten centuries at work, and Thee,
England, whom men not christened now
May live to call Home of the Free. ...
Under the sun on the gray hill,
At breakfast camped behind the hedge,
There ate he, fhene eats he still
Bread and bacon on the knife's edge.
Blow the wind chill, be sky of lead,
Or let the sun burn o'er the ridge,
Or be the cloudy fleeces spread,
Or let rain drive, or snow come dry
What time the blackthorn flower is shed
Like puffs of smoke on the blue sky—
There sits he now as he sat then. ...
Behold them on the sky-line thrown
Like giant shapes o,f riven rock,
He and his team on the world's rim
Creeping like the hands of a c10ck....
Raining sioeat lest the land go dry:
He sees his masters, he gives them hail
With hand to forelock as they ride by —
They that eat what he doth bake,
They that hold what he must buy,
They that spend what he doth make,
They that are rich by other men's toil;
They of the sword and he of the rake,
The lords of the land, the son of the soil!
From “The Song of the Plow," by
Maurice Hewlett
d*
Maurice Hewlett was ill-advised to put
into metre his chronicle of the English, The
Song of the Ploio (Ileincmann, per
Dymock’s Library, Bs. 6d.). The conception
was a worthy one, and Hewlett himself has
already summarised the theme in good Eng-
lish prose, in an essay that appeared in an
English periodical. It is an epiq subject,
and the originally selected title, The
Hodgiad, neatly expresses its content.
Hewlett argues that Hodge, the immemorial
tiller, of the English soil, is the true-born
Englishman; and it is doubtless largely true
that Hodge, the governed, is predominantly
English in blood, whereas the governing class
is by race preponderatingly Latin-French
with a Scandinavian admixture, while by
tradition, breeding and education it is
entirely so. “All the apparatus, all the
science, all the circumstance of government
are still Norman.”
So Hewlett adumbrated a new history of
England, the only real history of England,
the history of Hodge. Obviously, as the
author admits, such a history is “the stuff
for prose,” though he pleads that in its
broad outlines, in its masses of lights and
darks, it is a highly poetical subject.
Scarcely, one would think, since the story
is that of a hopelessly oppressed Hodge who
remains the same ignorant, but sturdy, boor
for one thousand years. The epilogue in
which Hewlett allow-s the war to strike off
Hodge’s chains is an excrescence on the pro-
jected poem; Hewlett admits that he com-
pleted it in its original form before the war.
And then Hewlett is not at all sure that
when Hodge, the landless laborer, returns
from the war, he will get back any of the
land that once was his ancestors.
The argument is this: “A certain man,
being in bondage to a proud Conqueror,
maintained his customs, nourished his vir-
tues, obeyed his tyrants, and at the end of
1000 years found himself worse off than he
was in the beginning of his servitude. He.
then lifted his head, looked his master in •
the face, and his chains fell off him.”
The author carefully carries out his theme.
This new history looks at all things “as
they might have appeared to Hodge himself,
misty and full of dim rumors, with occa-
sional flashes of things in the doing.” Hence
the staple of most history books—dates and
kings and queens and pretenders and the
squabbles of armies and of politicians—are
relegated to their properly unimportant
sphere. . While the battles are taking place
Hodge is getting on with his ploughing, and
while the barons are collaring charters for
themselves from the kings, Hodge is sowing
the seed and populating his island. The
coming of the Black Death, the various
restrictions put upon his rights, and the
long process by which he is slowly squeezed
out of his possession of the land are really
the only important milestones in his sodden
history.
The result would have been highly inter-
esting in nrose; in Hewlett’s verse it is
merely dull. There are bright spots in it,
of course: no poet, except Butters, could
contrive to be uniformly dull for 220 pages;
and there are occasional striking lines and
stanzas. Rut why should a man who isn’t
a poet deliberately spoil such a fine subject
by chopping it into metre and (occasion-
ally j very bad rime? Hodge, the person he
would most like to read the book, is thus
shooed off the premises. And even verse does
not satisfy Hewlett: he has to add notes.
When speaking of Raleigh Hewlett the poet
mentions “his weed and root.” In his notes
Hewlett the proser explains that phrase
thus: “his tobacco and potato.” Well, why
couldn’t Hewlett have mentioned the
tobacco and potato if he meant tobacco and
spud. The substitution of weed and root is
mere archaic tomfoolery. And it is pure
•Jargon to term Charles 11. “The Medicean
effigy,” or George I. “the sot in ermine.”
and then have to explain whom he meant in
a note. The Hodgiad is a promising infant
strangled in poetry
The Stupidity of instinct
The Hunting Wasps, the latest volume to
be translated of the works of the late J. H.
Fabre (Hodder and Stoughton, per Sydney
Book Club), is devoted chiefly to a considera-
tion of instinct. After showing us with
what marvellous precision the wasp selects
just those nerve centres of its victim that
when stabbed will reduce her prey to par-
alysis—for the wasp has to preserve her meat
for her larva, not kill it—this great natural-
ist, by a series of ingenious experiments,
depicts the ignorance of instinct. “Nothing
is difficult to instinct, so long as the act is
not outside the unvarying cycle of animal
existence; on the other hand, nothing is easy
to instinct, if the act is at all removed from
the . course usually pursued. The insect
which astounds us, which terrifies us with
its extraordinary intelligence, surprises us,
the next moment, with its stupidity when
confronted with some simple fact that hap-
pens to lie outside its ordinary practice.
The insect’s various instinctive actions
are fatally linked together. Because one
thing has been done, a second thing must
inevitably- be done to complete the first
To know everything and to know nothing,
according as it acts under normal or excep-
tional conditions: this is the strange an-
tithesis presented .by the insect race
Instinct knows everything, in the undeviat-
ing paths marked out for it; it knows noth-
ing outside those paths.”
Fabre gives an amazing experiment in
proof of his assertion. A certain wasp digs
a burrow in the sand as a shelter for her
larva. In order to provide food for her
grub she captures and paralyses her prey,
and returns from the hunt. Fabre opened
the burrow, making a little trench to where
the grub lay exposed to view. The mother
alighted at the exact point where the en-
trance to the burrow used to be. There was
nothing to prevent the mother reaching her
offspring. But the door had disappeared.
That worried her. Why should a door dis-
appear? She searched frenziedly for the
missing door, because instinct had implanted
in her the conviction that unless you went
through the door you could not find your
child. The wasp enters the new trench,
explores it to its end, seeking that missing
door. She does not recognise her own child,
kicks it savagely aside, a useless lump be-
neath which, perhaps, the longed-for door
may be hidden. The wasp is looking for
the larva, looking at the larva, but to find
that larva she must first enter the burrow,
and to enter the burrow she must first find
the door. “Her actions are like a series of
echoes each awakening the next in a settled
order, which allows none to sound until the
previous one has sounded What a gulf
separates intelligence and instinct.”
Another highly-interesting speculation that
arises from Fabre’s intensive study of the
insect is the extreme probability that in-
sects possess an unknown sense. He con-
cludes, from a series of clever experiments,
that insects are equipped for the purpose of
sensations as foreign to ourselves as the
sensation of colors would be if we were blind.
He points out the number of incomprehen-
sible things we ascribe to the insect’s “sense
of smell,” usually believed to reside in its
antennae. But Fabre shows that the anten-
nae have none of the delicate structure re-
quired for the ordinary sense of smell, or
hearing, and yet with these coarse tools the
insect is supposed to be able to perceive
scents, or sounds, that are non-existent to
us.
Fabre has no time for Darwin’s theory of
the survival of the fittest, at least as applied
to the insect world. The first wasp must
have stung the first grey worm in the exact
method in use to-day; that is to say, in order
to paralyse it, she must have stung it nine
times in nine different motor centres, and
then given the worm a knock-out blow by
munching its brain. If she bungled the job
there was no food for her grub, and that
bungler would leave no successor. Yet the
probability of discovering those nine motor
centres by chance would be, mathe-
matically, nil. “Instinct developed by de-
grees is flagrantly impossible in this case.
The art of preparing provisions allows of
none but masters and suffers no apprentices;
the wasp must excel in it from the outset or
leave the thing alone.” His conclusion seems
irrefutable: “The wasp excels in her art
because she is born to follow it, because she
is. endowed not only with the tools, but also
with, the knack of using them. And this gift
is original, perfect from the outset; the past
has added nothing to it, the future will add
nothing to it. As it was, so it is and will
be.” So, for these and many other reasons,
the greatest of modern naturalists rejects
the modern theory of instinct.
o
Another of Angus and Robertson’s useful
little military manuals, Citizen to Subaltern,
by Capt. A. W. Hutchin, General Staff, Aus-
tralia (Is. 6d.), is intended to show young
officers how to get the best out of themselves
and their men. It is full of hints for the
guidance of young officers on subjects that
are not to be found in the official manuals.
The War
John Hargrave, who was eyidently some-
one of. importance in the Boy Scout organi-
sation in England, enlisted as a stretcher-
bearer and subsequently saw sendee at
Suvla Bay. At Suvla Bay (Constable) is
brightly written and cleverly illustrated. He
gives a useful tip to recruits who would
avoid church parade; when he found that
everybody in the army had to have a
religion he put himself down as a Quaker.
At the landing at Suvla he saw from the
transport platoons and companies form up
under shell fire and march along in fours!
“Sheer murder,” said his mate; and the next
moment a Turkish shell came. “They lay
there like a little group of dead beetles, and
the wounded were crawling away like ants
into the dead yellow grass and bushes to
die. A whole platoon was smashed.” Har-
grave had experiences: “I’ve seen men,
healthy, strong, hard-faced Irishmen blown
to shreds. I’ve helped to clear up the mess.
I’ve trod on dead men’s chests in the sand,
and the ribs have bent in, and the putrid
gases of decay have burst through with a
whhh-h-ff-f.” He puts the Suvla failure
down to want of dash. “It didn’t want a
careful, thoughtful man in command—it
wanted dash and bluff. It could have been
done in those early days....A devil-may-
care sort of leader could have cut across on
August 8 and brought off a staggering vic-
tory.” His Division had landed 25,000
strong; when it left Suvla it numbered 6000.
Of Billjim, “the most picturesque set of
men on the peninsula,” the author thinks
highly. His pencil-sketch of Billjim would
amaze that modest bloke. His pose is noble,
his length is remarkable, and his features and
his attitude give him a close resemblance to
an eagle. The Tommies termed him an
Australian. Two Anzacs, hunting snipers,
brought in a wounded man, but requested
the C.O. not to mention the matter. “We’re
not supposed to be up here sharp-shootin’—
we jist done it fer a bit of sport. Rightly
we don’t carry a rifle; we belong to the
bridge-buildin’ section.” And their bag for
that day had been four Turkish snipers and
a wounded man rescued. “It was good sport
—very good.” Thereupon the Boy Scout
solemnly wrote thus in his pocket-book:
“The Australians have the keen eye, quick
ear and silent tongue which evolves in the
bushman and those who have faced starva-
tion and the constant risk of sudden death,
who have lived a hard life on the hard
ground, like the animals of the wild, and come
through. Fine fellows these, with good chests
and arms, well-knit and gracefully poised by
habitually having to creep and crouch, and
run and fight.” It will be news to the
tame Australian that we face the constant
risk of sudden death, and have habitually to
creep and crouch. He must have been think-
ing of our politicians. The chances are that
of those two Anzacs that Hargrave met, Bill
used to face starvation in the sock depart-
ment of Blogg’s Drapery, with the constant
risk of sudden sack, and Jim’s only creeping
and crouching and running and fighting were
done in legal chambers in Phillip-street.
J*
In Germany and Spain: the Views of a
Spanish Catholic (Unwin, per Sydney
Book Club), Don Francisco Martin Melgar
considers the war from a new standpoint.
He is a Catholic and a Carlist. To him
England is Spain’s hereditary enemy “who
perpetuates the affront of Gibraltar on our
soil.” England, too, is Protestant. The
author was in Austria at the outbreak of
the war. Naturally, he was a pro-German.
But he was soon undeceived; for the Rus-
sian ambassador informed him that Russia
had actually agreed to suffer the most com-
plete humiliation in order to avoid the war;
the Austrian Emperor expressed himself
as satisfied, and authorised him to tele-
graph to Petrograd that every cause _of
war had been removed. The following
morning, however, the Russian ambassador
was informed by the Emperor that the
Kaiser had telegraphed to him, “If Austria
is afraid, Germany fears no one, and, to
burn our bridges, I have just declared
war on Russia.” This revelation, which
the author had direct from the Russian
ambassador, was decisive. Henceforth the
author was anti-Hun. He had no need to
look for further conviction: he found the
evidence everywhere. His pamphlet gives
interesting details of the ignorance of the
Spanish public of the course of the war.
At the date of its writing, Spain knew
nothing of the battles of the Marne and of
the Yser. The author sees in the defeat
of Germany the sole safety for Catholicism.
He notes'.the generous treatment that Eng-
land, his hereditary enemy, gives to the
Jesuits, as contrasted with their persecu-
tion in Germany. And he concludes that
every moral consideration in the present
conflict is against Germany. Implicitly,
this work affords the English reader a
dramatic insight into the scope and suc-
cess of the pro-German propaganda in
Spain, for, unless that propaganda were
formidable this passionate protest need
never have been written
® ——•
What Does Billzac Read?
“F.S.F.” from France: Billzac in khaki is just
the same as Bill at home. The life in the trenches
does not alter his opinions nor his tastes. Billzac
is here to get a nasty job over quickly, so that he
can return to the life that holds hi 3 interest and his
ambition. He reads the books he always read, and
he is generally not over particular what sort of a
yarn he picks up. He enjoys humor: Bairnsfather’s
Fragment * from France is the only war publication
that every man in khaki has seen and enjoyed.
BJJGHTy, the paper published specially for troops,
contains the best humor of various papers, including
an occasional sketch from The Bulletin. It is
greats appreciated, but though it is intended solely
for the Army, copies of it are as scarce as sovereigns.
Evidently the interest in the bushranger is
perennial. A new edition, the fifth, has been
called for of the two volumes of George E.
Boxall’s History of the Australian Bush-
rangers.
Billjim's Maoriland Mate
_“Bart”: “Reginaldsandy” (Red Page,
25/1/T7) is not a bad moniker for the typi-
cal Maorilander. It suggests the Anglo-Scot
elements of him; also that those elements are
not yet thoroughly fused. This is very true.
He is still a little too much of either to be
quite himself. Time, however, has that matter
in hand, and will attend to it in due course.
But “Reginaldsandy” is rather long, and
would prove unwieldy in the breezes of
Maoriland. Also, it lacks local color. In
this respect it is inferior to the perfectly
Australian “Billjim,” a word very reminis-
cent of aboriginal names and therefore
entirely distinctive. Beside, “Billjim” is
brief. In this present christening the same
effect of local color should be sought while
still, preserving the Anglo-Scot elements. So
how about “Harrymac”? It is brief, and
suggests the native environment sufficiently
because it is well vowelled, and the syllables
are all Maori sounds. In fact, it is not far
removed from the well-known “Haeremai,”
as mispronounced by tourists and Other
parrots. Then the final letters are the ter-
minals of “Anzac.” The “mac” would actu-
ally stand for “Maoriland Army Corps,” the
more legitimate form of “N.Z.A.C.” But a
better name still would be the English
Thomas and the Scot Archibald to make
“Tomarchie” This is even more Maori in
tone than “Harrymac,” although there is no
Maori equivalent for the “ch,” and it blurs
the Anglo-Scot effect considerably, just as
time will blur those elements in the man.
So here’s to him, and may Billjim and
Tomarchie, likewise Billzac and Tomzac,
always be good mates. By the way, in
christening ceremonies the bloke with the
most to say is usually the one least con-
cerned in the business. So I feel quite com-
petent to attend to the sprinkling of the
Maorilander because I happen to be an Aus-
tralian.
“Haka” (M.L.) merely inserts a birth-
notice :
Bietii. f§
BULL (Puru). —At 4.53 a.m. on April
25, 1915, at Gaba Tepe, Gallipoli, to Mr.
and Mrs. John Bull—a son, BULLZAC
(Puru Peke). All doing well.
o
The Round Table for December is full of
rather tough meat. Naturally the paramount
subject of the reorganisation of the British
Empire finds adequate discussion on lines
with which readers of this useful quarterly
will be familiar. A series of interesting
articles deal with the. necessity for a re-
organisation of British industry and finance.
It is evident that when peace comes it will
find Germany thoroughly organised for large-
scale industry, before which the small firms
of any other country will apppear like an ill-
trained levy meeting in the field a highly-
organised modern army. In this connection
the analysis of the German banking system,
and the energetic part it takes in developing
industry, should be read with extreme in-
terest by politicians and financiers. But do
politicians and financiers ever read anything
but Hansard and the Enraged Puss Column?
The difficult question of the reconstruction of
labor after the war is impartially fiandled ;
but the conclusion reached that the only way
to effect the necessary reconciliation and co-
operation between laborer and employer is a
new point of view does not promise much
hope for Australia. We are yet far off from,
the lesson that the other nations have been
compelled to learn: “Work does not mean
longer hours, or more fatigue. It means
more initiative, and more enterprise, and joy
in doing one’s work perfectly, however
simple it may be, because it is one’s own '
contribution towards the national well-being.
We shall never get the right idea of work
until we see that at bottom it is public ser-
vice which everyone ought to perform, .rich
and poor alike. We have found something
of this spirit during the war. We shall only
build a happier world if we retain it after-
wards.” An article of timely interest deals
with the origin and the status of the Native
States of India. These Native States occupy
two-fifths of the whole area of India, and
there are over 650 such States, in diverse
stages of development.
The finest collection to date of cartoons
against Hunnery is John Grand-Carteret’s
La Cultur et ses Hants Faits (Librairie
Ghapelot, Paris, 2 francs). In this brilliant
indictment of the world-wolf all the leading
cartoonists of the Allied and the neutral
nations are adequately represented, though
Billjim and Harrymac hardly contribute
their quota.


ZIGC
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for SILVERPLATE SATISFACTION
No. CX6I. —Cake Basket, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver ... 30/-
No. CX97. — Jam Dish, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver
stand, with Ruby Glass.. 17/0
No. 993. —Break-
fast Cruet, Elec-
tro-plated on Nickel
Silver, 4 Cut Class
Bottles .... 30 / -
r
No. CX.IOO. Butter
Dish, E lectro Silver-plate on
Nickel Silver, clear Crystal
Glass 15/6
No. CXl2l.—Sugar and Cream
Stand, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
38/6
No. CXs9—Cake Basket, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver 30/-
No. CXI B.—lnkstand, Electro
Britannia Metal. Engraved design ...
Silver-plate on
37/6
1
No. 59. —Card Receiver, Silver-
plated, Satin finish, prettily chased,
20/-
No. CX9I. — Jam Dish, silver
plated on Britannia Metal, cover
prettily engraved 15/-
No. CX27. —Dinner Cruet, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, 4
Crystal Glass Bottles 35 / -
No. 91. —Oak
cuit Box,
plated mount,
useful gift ..
Ris-
SSlV^'r-
very
20/-
No. CX96. —Jam Dish,
Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, with Crystal Glass,
No. CXIIS. —Dinner Cruet,
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, 4
Cut Glass bottles 27/6
No. 78. — Card Receiver, Silver-plated,
novel and effective design, dull Satin finish,
22/6
No. CX99. —Jam Dish,
Ruby Glass, Silvtor-plated
on Nickel Silver Stand,
10/6
No. 999. Flower
Stand, Silver-plated, (
charming effect, with Iri- *
descent Glass Vases, 45/-
Terms
Spot
Cash.
hdf
No. CX67.—■'Nut Dish
and Cracks, Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver 27/6
No. CX64. —Cake Basket,
on Nickel Silver
Silver-plated
. ... 30/-
Xo. CX22.—Cake Basket, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, embossed design. • §►7/6
No. CX9O. — Butter Dish, Silver-plated
White printed China Dish, 20/-
No. 88.—Biscuit Box,' Sil-
ver-plated mounts on China,
pretty floral design.. 16/6
Ko. CXB2.—Cake Basket, Ekct.ro
plate on Nickel Silver, Chased design... .
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


/
✓
When \bu
Follow The
Trail
Go
Equipped With
Winchester
Guns Ammunition
Made for all kinds
of shooting.
SOL D EVERYWHERE
w
BRAND
pk ARE, YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD -A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in “fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3.' Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
%
Tp any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for February
hdf
hdf
Phonograph owners will be delighted with the records
presented this month.
“Juanita” (viladys Rice and Frederick Wheeler) is one
of the best. Two other grand old popular .airs are
“Wait Till the Clouds Roll By” (W. Van Brunt and
Chorus), and “Go to Sleep My Little Piccaninny”
(Gladys Rice and Chorus). There will be a big demand
for “When I Get- Back to the U.S.A.” (Billy Murray
and Chorus) ; “That Hula Hula” (Helen Clark and
Chorus), and “She is My Rosie” (Glen Ellison)
Altogether there is a splendid range of songs and instru-
mentals.
Order through your dealer.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28231 —Recitative and Air—The Trumpet
Shall Sound—Messiah (O. F. Handel).
Bass solo with Trumpet obligato,
orch. acc. Arthur Middleton
28232—Hallelujah Chorus —Messiah (G. F.
Handel). Mixed voices, orch acc.
Oratorio Chorus
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2823 —Some Little Bug is Going- to Find You.
Tenor, orch acc. Walter Van Brunt
2845—When I Get Back to the U.S.A. Tenor,
orch. ace. Billy Murray and Chorus
2849 —Wait Till the Clouds Roll By. Tenor,
orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt and Chorus
2852—1 n the Gloaming. Tenor, orch. acc.
Emory B. Randolph and Chorus
2855 — That Hula Hula. Contralto, orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Chorus
2856 — Valse Pathetique.
Armancl Vecsey and His Orchestra
2857 — Go to Sleep Mv Little Pickaninny.
Soprano, orch. acc.
Gladys Rice and Chorus
2858 —Merry Whirl—One ■ Step. For dancing.
Vess L. Ossman’s Banjo Orchestra
2859 — You’ll Always Be the Sa-me Sweet Girl.
Tenor, orch. acc. Manuel Romain
2861 — lolanthe Airs—No. 2.
New York Light Opera Company
2862 — (a) Honey, I Wants Yer "Now. (b)
Jerusalem Morning. Male voices, un-
accom. Criterion Quartet
2863 — Hungarian Serenade.
Alessios Mandolin Quartet
2865 Underneath the Stars —Fox Trot. For
dancing. Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
2866 — Around the Map—Fox Trot. For
dancing. Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
2867 Juanita. Soprano and baritone, orch.
acc.
Gladys Rice and Frederick Wheeler
2868 — When the Right Girl Comes Along.
Tenor, orch acc. ,
Billy Murray and Chorus
2871—She is My Rosie ( Harry Lauder).
Orch. acc. Glen Ellison
2877—Memories. Tenor, orch. acc.
Burton Lenihan
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Great
Chances for
Sportsmen 8 Farmers!
FURTHER
REDUCTIONS.
TRADE MARK
hdfg
6 ONLY D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, choke bore, walnut stock, pistol grip,
fitted with \V. W. Greener patent wedge-fast crossbolt.
Usual Price, £5/15/-. SALE PRICE, £3/15/-
4 ONLY CHAMPION HAMMERLESS D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, walnut stock,
pistol grip, steel barrel. Usual Price, £lO. SALE PRICE, £6/6/-
6 ONLY 5.8.8. L. DUCK GUNS, long distance, top action, kill at over 100
yards. Usual Price, £5. SALE PRICE, £3/10/-
FARMERS’ D.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 50/-. 'SALE PRICE, 27/6.
FARMERS’ S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 20/-
Colt’s Lightning REPEATING RIFLES, to hold 12 shots.
Usual Price, £6/6/-. SALE PRICE, £3/5/-
S.B. RABBIT RIFLES, kill at 100 yards. Usual Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12/6.
Repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen,!
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on Application to
SMALL. ARMS' CO.. 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
“I certainly believe it was
Clements Tonic cheated death
from claiming me as a victim.”
“ I was pronounced incurable, and sent
home by those best able to judge.”
The following letter is remarkable for its earnestness in praise of this
wonderful Medicine, which does so much good to those who are run down
with debility of the system, and whose health appears seriously impaired.
Mrs. Craft’s case is well known in the Parramatta district (N.S.W.),
where she has lived for years, and the story of her long suffering is well
known and can easily be verified. How she suffered year after- year, and
how she recovered through the use of Clements Tonic, is the talk of
Granville. Read the letter that follows, and if you are ill with debility, or
suffering with weak nerves and general weakness, try the magic of this
medicine, and give yourself a chance to recover good health. As it benefited
others, so it may benefit you.
Palmer House, Cooper Street,
Granville, N.S.W.,
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. -'-5/4/T6.
“I would be lacking in generosity to you and the a 'tinted if I
did not ask you to make known what Clements Tonic li; s done for
me. It may be the means of directing others to health.
“It is ten years since I first got ill, and I had a five y< ars’ illness,
the greater part of which time I was not even able to walk about.
I was in four different hospitals, and was operated upon in one. I
know the dread of the knife played havoc on my nervous constitution,
so that I was not only weak in body but weak in nerves.
“I was pronounced an incurable, and sent home by those who
were best able to judge. Friends sat by my bedside at night-time
expecting to see the last of me, but I certainly believe that it was
Clements Tonic cheated death from claipiing me as its victim. I
have lived in the Parramatta district all my life, and it would be
very easy to verify my statement. You may use this as you think fit.
Witness: HENRY GOUGH, J.P. “(Signed) ALICE CRAFT.”
_ Date: April 19, 1916.
If you have Insomnia take Clements Tonic and sleep like a child.
If you have Constipation this medicine gives new stomach strength.
If you have Sick Headaches or Neuralgia it gives immediate relief.
Your home is not medically equipped without it. Get it to-day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.


i
V
For Skin and
Complexion
To improve your skin
and complexion, use Icilma
Cream, the famous British
toilet cream. The Icilma
Natural Water which it
contains will stimulate the
skin and regulate the flow
of natural oils. In this
way it prevents early
wrinkles and keeps the
skin in good condition.
Fragrant and non-greasy.
1
Cream
(Guaranteed not to grow Hair).
Price 1/6 per pot.
Of Chemists, D\uggists, Stores, etc.
I ilma is pronounced Eyt-Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO.,
Agents,
lit, Commerce House, Melbourne.
A.c.3.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
M. Planes on a 7 year old British-made All-
Steel Mead Models superbe
'COVENTRY FLYER >
Rode 34*366 Miles in 365 Days
(officially Beat over 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
£3-10 to £9
Latest
Models
Esr, 3$ yrs.'
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carrfage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free Trial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices; Write for Free Art Catalogue.,
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted.
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL,
MEAD
GREAT DANGER OF INSECT BITES.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by Using N EV-A-.BITE.
A Preparation of Proved Effectiveness.
“There is no question,” says a leading specialist,
“that insect bites may lead to great danger.to
health, and have been known to end fatally.”
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect bite
might set up such
serious inflamma-
tion as to cause blood-poisoning, and—as every-
one well knows —blood-poisoning may lead to
even the amputation of a limb.
_ The best form of treatment of mosquito
bites is prophylactic or preventive. The appli-
cation of a little of the NEV-A-BITE
lotion reduces the probability of mosquito bites
to a minimum.
NEV-A-BITE is a perfectly harmless
preparation, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
If NEV-A-BITE is unobtainable from
your local supplier, send 1/2 in stamps to one
of the following, vi»: —-
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney,
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [2
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, . Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “l was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for ll t days l
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2.
VELVOLIWF
to
A Cool, Creamy Application for
Hot Winds. Heat and Cold. Sooth-
ing and Cooling for the Skin
ALL CHEMISTS
1/6 BOTTLE
T -
OR POST FREE
/
BONNINGTON & CO. Ltd
179 HARRIS ST.|
SYDNEY
r
1
1!
i
i
. .i
The Great Preventive
of Mosquito, Sandfly and
other Insect Bites
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONNINCTON & CO., LTD.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD.,. 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
If you must rear
baby by hand
adopt a food which approaches most closely to
Mother’s Milk, and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and proved equivalent
to Mother’s Milk; its success is evidenced by-
word-wide recommendation. Simple to prepare;
no tedious cooking —it is alike a boon to the
nursing mother and satisfying to the child.
Mellin's
Food
Write NOW for sample of Mellin’s Food and useful Handbook
for Mothers —“The Care of Infants in Australia”— post free.
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
Then there’*
his Bottle
Mellin’s Feed-
ing Bottle is
the perfect and
simple Feeder,
hdf
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Courage
What we call courage is
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
Mr
-'\W
2
\
4
"“FHE man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
* in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to his work refreshed, alert,
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always. He
gets the best out of himself and out of life —and keeps at
arm's length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation —the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR, 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughput Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Southland.
I know a town set on a stretching plain,
Beneath a wide-flung sky of softest grey ;
The circling farms are rich in flocks and
grain,
And soft-hued flowers smile to the rain-swept
day.
And there are meadows where the clover
grows,
And tender little daisies blow between.
A white-frocked girl amid the high grass
glows,
A twilight moth amid the fading green.
There gay-winged beetles shyly glide and
creep
Over your palm if you outstretch your hand ;
And, sighing poppy breaths, full-breasted
Sleep
Stretches her arms and cradles all the land.
The clay-thick river where men seek for
gold
Torn with long sobs sweeps to the harbor
bar;
For that poor wealth it tried with might to
hold
It cannot now reflect the evening star!
So we, so we, eager for wealth and fame,
Bartered our gift ere we took count of
cost —
The seas between, what matter whose the
blame?
The streain was muddied, and the star was
|ost!
N.S.W.
JOHN EGAN.
“Si J’etais Dieu-”
If I were God ! —ah, sweet,
Lilies, where’er you trod,
Should mark the passing of your little feet,
If I were God.
All little lovely things
Should lie about your way ;
Life be made wonderful with visionings
From day to day ;
Seven stars should burn each night
For candles round your bed ;
Soft little clouds pillow all rosy-white
Your little head ;
And wandering winds suspire
Strange music, while star-beams
And autumn moons made an iEolian lyre
To lull your dreams.
Like some old Book of Hours,
Brown, quaint, earth should be scrolled
With birds and curious beasts and streams
and flowers,
And warm sun-gold.
And when from the still air
The snow fell soundlessly
Each dying flake should say a little prayer
To you from me.
If I' were God ! —nay, take.
The thought back ! What were worth
A heaven unheavened by your dear feet tha*
make
A heaven of earth?
N.s.w.
F. S. BURNELL.
Memories.
A whisper of air in the woods
That lie still in the midsummer heat:
A whisper so sweet
That it chimes with our moods
As the clouds up above
Brood over our love,
Our exquisite infantile love,
That no dawning of sense can alloy.
Just you, dear, and I, and the joy
That comes once to the child ere the stings
And snares of nubility cloy;
One moment that pauses on wings,
On fragile and delicate wings.
Iridescent of silver and pearl,
And thrills the pure soul of a girl,
And the soul undefiled of a boy.
The birds, and the woods that were shady,
And you in your dawn, little lady,
And the charm of your kiss !
So long ago, this;
But now that my heart is outworn
By the world and its clamor and scorn,
And now that my life by the shame
Of sins that you scarce know by name
Is a life mostly quenched, gone to seed,
I love you—l love you, indeed,
As I could not have loved in that sweet,
Gracious noontide of midsummer heat;
And whatever within me is pure,
Whatever with truth shall endure,
You made, when we lolled in the woods,
And the birds sang in tune with our moods.
A beach that lies white in the glow
Of an ardent and resolute sun ;
A grave gull that hovers, just one,
And an azure sea dancing below;
A girl and a youth who have sipped
Life’s chalice of Knowledge, and slipped
Into wonderful intimate deeps:
A love that has laughed up the steeps
Of discretion, and paused on the crest
To toy with allurements at rest;
A love that burns fierce to the heart
Of desire, while still fawning apart,
Uncaring and chuckling and gay,
Pan joyously pipes to the day.
Till the door of my being is slammed
On delights that have flamed and have
blurred,
Till the Angel of infinite might
Plucks me shivering out of the night
To wait as I may the Last Word,
I shall love you and miss you, and bless
Your splendid revealing caress,
Dear woman that made me.... and
damned! ■
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


#y/V>
w»IW'
4 '
WATERSHED— OILSKINS
The most protective coats ever invented. Suitable foi Riding,
Driving, Walking and all classes of work that take men
out of doors during wet weather. Note these special features .
1. Buttons down the side instead of in front, thus providing a seamless
apron front for driving, motoring, walking or riding.
2. Seamless epaulet cape covering all shoulder seams and giving double
protection where most wanted.
3. Overlapping sheath in front to cover the buttoning across the chest.
4. Saddle pleat in lack that can be unfastened when the coat is used for
' riding.
5. Elastic inner cuffs. 6. Extra full shirt. 7. Guaranteed waterproof.
MADE IN TWO WEIGHTS•
Dugong-Watershed"
Light weight for general wear,
Rainbow-Water shed
Stout make for rough wear,
28/6
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STORES.
4d
/\DE=I_AIQ>EH * PERThI,
s'vcirsEi'v'-mEZL_B'ouf=?rsEZ- Brisbane:
i ranrsH*
■ /
«v/
ft
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
PRICES
Single, 17/0.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS,which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
ghdfg
yhdfg
aqref
The Story of the Lamp
English Bull’s Eye Lamp of 1750
Attempts were made in the mid-seven-
teenth century to better the lighting
qualities of lamps, but the improvements
were entirely superficial. Bull’s eye glasses
on either side of the wick were introduced
about 1750. They brightened the light to
a certain extent but the flickering, smoking
wick was still in evidence.
A clear, steady light is best/obtained with
Laurel Kerosene
The soft white light
It neither smokes nor smells) and is free
from sediment. Laurel/ Kerosene burns
evenly to the last thimbleful and is the most
economical kerosene in actual pse.
Laurel is our new trade mark name for
the highest quality American Kerosene
ever sold in Australasia and replaces our
old brand, White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil Company’Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and i,New Zealand
aura
La. 8.
h
warn
■
95-
■
BEST
in the
LONG
RIJN.
DUVAL & CO.,
13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, HOBART.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.-No. 11)32.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1917.
Price 6d.
CROP PROSPECTS.
OLD COCKY DEATH: “Cripes, it looks bonzer!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Trinted and. published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 (Is. 6d. per annum you' can have Tiie
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Humber, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to- be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 t rords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that'it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black anil White.
Anyone supplying to• The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
luitECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for-same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
■South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco ; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Holing, Cairo, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 80s.; Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 21d. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1917.
INTOLERANCE.
Somebody in America with millions of dol-
lars to spend was seized with the idea of
teaching the world by a lavish display of
murder,’ nudity and pseudo-liistorical stage
properties that the bane of human existence
first and last has been intolerance. It is a
good yarn to go to the public with and one
likely to prove a good cash-gatlierer; but it
has a distinct weakness in that it isn’t true.
The raging insanity of the picture-drama
itself, where Cyrus, in his chariot, runs
races with a modern motor-car and the
Huguenot girl is raped almost in the
presence of the Woman taken in Adultery,
fails utterly to make any sort of case good;
but even if the thing had had constructive
genius behind-it instead of mere dollars, the.
fact would still stand that it is barking up
the wrong tree or down the wrong well.
From first to last the world’s great need
has been intolerance —the great, sound,
wholesome human intolerance of wrong and
shame and humbug generally. Babylon
didn't fall through intolerance. The great
city with its mechanical advances, its system
of hydraulics, its tremendous energy in
building and all the arts, and its splendid
code of laws, went down because of its
easy tolerance of slipshod rule. Its king,
when he should have been attending to the
defence of the empire, was pursuing his
antiquarian studies; and rather than leave-
the job he wasn’t paid for, to do the thing
for which Babylon had given him all his
splendor, he abdicated in favor of his son.
And then Cyrus, the most tolerant con-
queror in ancient history, took the city ; and
Persian tolerance prepared the way for
another broken empire and an equally loud
smash. The Crucifixion wasn’t due to
intolerance except on the part of a small
minority of the people of Palestine. It was
the great, easy tolerance of the Roman
Empire, which allowed most-favored-nation
treatment to the Jews, to which the calamity
could be directly traced. Pilate washed his
hands.’ It was the last act in a stupid and
unmeaning tolerance which allowed murder
rather than assert the clean, wholesome
equality of Roman law. Again, the throat-
cutting of St. Bartholomew had precious
little to do with intolerance. The dull,
unthinking tolerance of the people of France
—a tolerance which suddenly became
exhausted in the great revolution—for ages
allowed small, frivolous, scheming people to
do as they pleased Avith the lives which Avere
supposed to be in their care. Catherine
wasn’t intolerant. She was simply a
viperous person determined to get back on
her enemies and careless whether she did it
with poison or a knife. The tolerance which
refused to challenge the right of a queen-
mother to murder at will got pretty much
AAdiat it deserved. And so right doivn the
page of history. Wherever the people
became intolerant of things there was some-
thing doing that was worth wffiile; Avherever
they remained heavily and stolidly tolerant
the old abuses Avent on until they reached
the climax of smash.
To-day Australia tolerates “Intolerance”
because its boosters have blown on rams’
horns and declared its high ethical purpose
and value. Even the censorship has been
so tolerant that the Babylonian harlot is
allowed to sprawl all but nude in the lime-
light while she is fondled by her rope-whis-
kered lover. It is in keeping with the Avhole
Australian scheme of things’that this should
be so. NoAvhere is the easy tolerance of a
people so much in evidence. The very fact
that small minorities, intolerant In specific!
directions, are allowed shell Scope is proof
of this. Take- the liquor question, surf-
bathing and other matters about which the
modern Pharisee has so much to say. Aus-
tralia has large and decided opinions about
these things. Narrowing restrictions in the
sphere of personal action are abhorrent to
the genius of the nation. The whole
trend of public conduct and every literary
and artistic expression of distinctively Aus-
tralian thought proves this; yet so tolerant
are the people that they will supinely allow
themselves to be overridden by noisy minori-
ties bent on alleged reform and walk in
narroAV tracks of somebody else’s choosing
with little comnlaint beyond a scornful
snort of laughter at the pettiness of their
oppressors. This absurd tolerance was never
more clearly seen than during the middle
phases of the Avar. Recruits were called for
to enter the shambles of a mighty struggle
in which Australia Avas supposed to have
a direct and vital concern. The Avar cables
constantly assured us that our forces were
winning; our own persons in authority
assured us of the desperate need for more
men to take their places in the field. Awful
things were at that time of daily occurrence,
and eAmnts that did not look in the least
like victory or seem to point to it were
following one another rapidly ; yet Australia
was kept absolutely in the dark as to what
was really occurring and left to bitterly
guess from the casualty-lists the actual state
of affairs. . There Avas no sort of reason why
most of the truth should not have been
told. No enemy was listening at this end of
the Avorld, and a faithful statement of the
case at that time would hatm flamed Aus-
tralia’s soul into one keen sword. No argu-
ment was ever advanced for the censorship
which -could bear a moment’s examination;
yet the big Australian public, knowing that
it was being tricked, and suspecting that it
was being tricked to cover up the misdeeds
of a set of small men incapable of properly
handling the military situation, was so
tolerant that there was no hint of a united
and indignant protest. When a sort of pro-
test did come at last it came, as might have
been expected, in the w r rong way. The
emphatic No vote at the referendum simply
indicated a tolerance grown so broad that,
havipg learned to tolerate Hughes and
Pearce, it was prepared to almost tolerate
the Kaiser also.
And the tolerance of Australia continues
to broaden almost without limit. The party
which held office in the Federal sphere was
already discredited before the action of the
machine which professed to control it caused
it to split into tAvo unequal sections. But
the smaller section, pleading the necessity
of a time of war, continued to cling to place
and salary as.long as it saw the least chance
of the other political factions permitting it
to do so. Throughout the country there Avas
a demand for a National Ministry; but that
demand was of such a diffused and general
kind that it could not penetrate to the ears
of office-holders accustomed to confuse
earnestness with yell. What the people
clearly wanted Avas a Ministry Avliich, ignor-
ing all party, would gather in the ablest
men to help in the time of crisis and cast
into the outer darkness small people, like
Pearce, tvhose conduct of the business in-
trusted to them had become a byAvord for
incompetence. Now a fusion lias been
formed —not a National Ministry, but in
the main a collection of party men with
votes behind them and a hunger for office
that outweighs all other considerations.
Australia, in its vast and unholy tolerance,
sees its interests, its future, its very reputa-
tion made a ping-pong ball to be tossed
backivards and forwards by the poorest sort
of schemers, and makes no violent protest.
Politics are unquestionably corruptmuddle
rules in public departments; w r e are not
doing the best even with the material at
hand to help in bringing the war to a con-
clusion ; and the leakage of funds in all
sorts of ways is a jest on the lips of the
people. Yet Australia is too tolerant to
interfere, and the politicians knoiv it and
gamble on the chance of a continuance of
the same spirit. “These people Avill stand
anything” appears to be the opinion of
those who misgovern us; and several mil-
lions of Australians Avith a tired smile admit
the truth of the estimate. What we want
is a new and healthy spirit of intolerance —
an intolerance directed against the things
that are destroying us. We want to hate
and loathe and despise Avhere w T e now
merely mock and endure. People who
palter with truth that they may stay in
office and piffle Avith affairs beyond their
understanding in the name of war service
are worse enemies of the Commonwealth
than even the ruffians who do the Kaiser’s
Avill. Toleration in such case is a crime.
“The people get the sort of government they
deserve” is an aphorism true enough in such
a democracy as ours. By our tolerance we
are parties to all that is done in our name:
and it is fully time that avc faced the situa-
tion and got our harshest intolerance
furbished up for good, violent use.
THE FURTIVE WORK IN THE
BACKYARD.
Is there anyone in Australia who under-
stands what the Commonwealth is trying to
do with the Northern Territory? Does the
Ministry or the Opposition know? Does
Gilrutii, the Administrator, know? If
anyone can throw light, on this subject it is
very nearly time he was heard from. 'Where-
fore The Bulletin would suggest to
Hughes that as soon as he can spare a few
minutes from winning the war lie should
have something to say about the Territory,
explain the purpose former Ministries had in
view, tell the community exactly what the
policy of the Fusion is. So far as this paper
has been able to see, the only policy that has
been given a chance is the policy of Spend-
ing money. It looks as if the CommoiL
wealth has had no goal except to delude the
public with arithmetic, dodging responsi-
bility by purchasing temporary peace and
quiet, and handing on a legacy Of rvaste aiid
all for Votes. This is ho gobd.
Any ass can spend money. Either successive
Governments have done sb with a definite
objective or tliev have not. If the intention
Was merely to get rid of money in order that
the community might be humbugged into
believing that constructive work for the re-
clamation of the Territory was in progress,
the people who have permitted it are guilty
of a gross offence against their country. If
the idea avus to move forward with the job
which commenced with Federation, the Com-
monwealth Government is under a strong
obligation to say how much of the contract
has been completed, what has been gained
from the money spent, and what will be
achieved by spending more at the same or
any other rate. The expenditure during the
last six years has been: —
1911 .. .. £343,947
1912 . . . . 411,050
1913 . . • . . 409,609
3 914 .. .. 532,474
1915 474,927
1916 . . . . 630,088
Total.. .. £2,862,095
And there is a special Territory debt of
£3,359,890. In a balance-sheet, what would
be put to the credit of national achievement
against this debit? This paper suspects that
it might all be expressed by 2d.
In the collective mind of Australia tile
object of the Commonwealth has been clear
enough. The job on hand was to open the
Territory to settlement by white people—-to
make it productive and, incidentally, to re-
move the terrible danger to Australia of half
a million snuare miles of her territory
remaining as they were when Hannibal was
crossing the Alps. Adoption of the White
Australia policy imposed grave responsibili-
ties on the Commonwealth, for it was obvi-
ous, and is so still, that this policy will never
feel very well so long as the Territory re-
mains empty. Political . parties of every
brand are agreed as to this. Verbal plans for
linking the Territory with the rest of the
continent by rail were made, schemes of
settlement advanced, tumultuous cheers given
for the White Australia ideal, promises of
devotion to it turned elections, and one Par-
liament after another talked at great length
about the dawn of a new day in the North
and the splendor of the task to which the
nation had turned its pioneering hand. That
was all very well; but those Australians
with whom achievement weighs more than
the froth of cheers and talk have for a long
time had an uneasy feeling that the work of
the Federal Parliament in respect to the
Northern Territory has been a betrayal of
the principles upon which it allegedly rested
—that the case for a White Australia has
not been strengthened by the Commonwealth
politician, and that a continuation of the
policy followed may have as evil an effect
upon the public mind as it is certainly having
upon the cashbox. No reasonable citizen
could expect the. undertaking to be carried
to success without expenditure. That large
sums of money would have to be found was
known from the first. But what no citizen
had a right to believe was that his' cash
Would be thrown away, and that after spend-
ing nearly three millions in six years he
should be in doubt whether the supposed
national policy was not still on scratch. That
the money has been thrown away, that the
problem of the Northern Territory is still
practically untouched, if not even more diffi-
cult than it ever whs,' looks almost certain.
The other day a Sydney paper published a
letter from a Darwin correspondent who
committed himself to this:—
Summcd-up briefly, it may be said that the ex-
perience of the first five years of Federal adminis-
tration would prove that a White Australia is
impracticable, or that Australia must be awakened
to the fact that it can only be by a very great
expenditure and sacrifice that it can be accomplished.
Australia has needed no awakening to that
fact. If the result of the “very great expen-
diture” has been to prove that the outlay
must be enormously increased before any
practical advance has been made, the Federal
Government’s course is clear. It must either
revise its policy so that when a million is
spent the nation gets value for its money,
or knock off spending millions on proving a
negative until another Government with
more wit can do something better than get
into debt and make hash of its responsibili-
ties to the people.
This paper has never doubted that unless
Australians reclaim the Territory somebody
else will one day do it for them. Nor has
it any doubt that throwing money into the
Territory can never be anything more than
part of Australia’s duty. It is work alone
that w r ill count. Unless the Federal Parlia-
ment can make itself recognise that White
Australia has to be worked for, and that it
is within the region of possibility to destroy
all hope of its realisation by pursuing a
policy of slouch and futility, there are people
living to-day who will h.»ve reason to curse
the improvidence and grievous insincerity
of their countrymen. It is easy to blame
this man or that for the existing chaos, but
every charge that can be made against Gil-
ruth or anyone else —apart from the details
of administration —applies with 10 times
more force against the Federal Parliament
and Ministries. It is there that responsi-
bility rests for all mistakes and evasions.
What is the policy that is being followed?
What is there to hope for from it? Has the
White Australia ideal been fortified the
experience of recent years? And if not“ whv
not, and when will that ideal be translated
into a working rule of political and admin-
istrative conduct? Australia is deeply inter
ested in these questions. More than ever
before is the Northern Territory a place
where a tremendous issue is at stake. More
than ever before is it dangerous that Aus-
tralian men and women should imagine that
it is enough for them to have their mouths
full of words about a White Australia.
THE CONTAGIOUS DISEASE WHICH
AFFLICTS POLITICS.
OGCasionAlL.y a comedian is heard calling
the thing to which the Federal Patliament
has given birth a “War Government” But
that deceives no one, least of all the Liberal
electors have changed Gook for
Hughes. What lias happened is thdt
Hughes and others, having been drummed
out of their old drgaiiisation, have joined
former opponents, and between them they
have formed a Ministry having two objects
in life —to dish the other side and hang on
to its own job. Hughes, having brought the
Liberals into their own once more, will
reinforce the party vote in the .country with
a limited number of personal followers and
a _ considerable squad of thpse heelers and
, wirepullers who make up the army of camp-
followers attached to every Ministry. With
the united forces his job will be a double-
barrelled one—to hold his place as the serang
of Liberalism and convert the Parliamentary
majority returned at last election into a
minority next time. At hatching incidental
schemes for dodging the electors and throt-
tling Parliament this paper confidently ex-
pects him to exhibit his most consummate
skill. That and not government is his forte.
But merely girding at Hughes will not
help Labor very much. That institution ha 9
more important work to do. This includes
the recovery of the party’s place as a sug-
gestive and constructive force, and acquiring
a realisation of the critical ineffectiveness of
the mere yeli. Does Labor to-day know
where it stands in relation to the great finan-
cial, industrial and social problems that have
grown to mountainous proportions in Aus-
tralia during the last few years? If it does
it is keeping strangely quiet about them;
and while it held a majority in the Reps,
under Fisher and Hughes, it showed a
stronger inclination to let things slide than
was reconcilable with devotion. to duty or
principle. The Liberals stand before the
country now heavily burdened by Hughes
and the ineffaceable memories of their pro-
longed haggling over the plunder. But Labor
is far from being like Ctesar’B wife. Its
job is to convince the public that a Common-
wealth Parliament manipulated from vari-
ous cellars would look better if Tudor
was at the other end of the wire than if a
Lib. remains there. And it will have the fur-
ther job of explaining the benefits derived
by the nation from the hideous waste of
money that has been the distinguishing fea-
ture in the record of every Labor Govern-
ment in the Commonwealth.
How much control the electors have over
their affairs is easily measured by the per-
formances of this Parliament. From the day
of its election it has been a fraud, and con-
scious of the fact. It has paltered with its
duty to the country, fumbled all its respon-
sibilities. Under pretence of being concerned
only with “winning the war” it has wasted
money like water; it has seen men punished
under the War Precautions Act for “inter-
fering with recruiting,” yet has permitted
itself and the States to commit offences
which have grievously discounted the
national strength. The people have watched
it with dismay—and during the last few
months with disgust. They have seen the
national Legislature reduced to futility,
dragged at the heels of schemers into a quick-
sand of intrigue and mystery, where control
of the machinery of Government was bar-
gained for like a pound of tripe. This is
not self-government. It is government by
greedy spongers. There was haggling for
billets, for personal precedence, for “under-
standings” about electorates, for trips to
London, for the abandonment of certain pro-
posals, for party votes in the electorates.
How much longer will the initiative refer-
endum have to be waited for?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Expansion of Australian Exports.
There is a new move now —to export a few
thousand carpenters and other artisans and
laborers from Australia to England. The
argument for doing this is that the men
cannot get employment in the Common-
wealth but can find jobs at Peckham Eye or
somewhere. And so it boils down to this,
that among the great natural resources
developed by the States and the Common-
wealth at a cost of £500,000,000 of debt is an
incapacity to afford opportunity for the
energy of 5,000,000 people. If this is not
the last word in pitiable failure Tiie
Bulletin would like to know what it all
amounts to. Here is Australia, a continent
with a sprinkling of population, rich in
natural endowments, producing many things
that are sought for by people all over the
earth, already denuded of part of its man-
hood by war, importing the products of over-
sea labor at a rate relatively greater than
any other civilised country, yet compelled
to make through its Governments an abject
confession of economic bankruptcy. For
that is what the exportation of men means.
They are not being exported to win the war.
They are to be shipped off because the poli-
ticians know their ruinous policy of boom
has burst. They are going, Australian
workmen, away from their homeland because
they fear starvation ! “It is no good fooling
about and telling fairy stories. There is no
money available,” said Hughes last week
to a deputation of Melbourne carpenters
who asked for more Borrow and more Bloat.
It was bound to come. If Hughes had been
more expansive he might have said with
equal truth :
The Australian people have been fooled by me and
other politicians for years with yarns about the bene-


ficence of Cohen and have shirked and loafed and
stuck thistles in their hair and danced a tango round
the Golden Calf. YVe are debt-ridden, extravagant
and reckless. The best thing you can do is to pack
up your traps and get out of this Australia of ours
until someone can be prevailed upon to lend us some
money to make ornamental lakes at Canberra and
continue supporting seven Cocked Hats and Fourteen
Houses of Parliament.
That would about crystallise the position.
And if in addition to exporting men or
rabbits we can manage to have frequent
strikes, large importations of millinery and
cigars, furious speeches about the great
influx of population that is going to happen
when the war collapses and about “repatria-
tion” with a p.n., the Australian democracy
will be able to face the. future shoulder to
shoulder, show itself to be worthy of the
race from which it sprang—and watch the
white ants devour the ideals which were at
one time on the premises!
•—— ■*
A General Election —and Blow the
War!
When three months ago the lIoLMAN-ites
and the WADE-ites presented N. S. Wales
with a Grab Ministry, their nominal excuse
was that in these parlous times it would be
very wrong to have a general election; that
all Ma wanted was a National Government
to concentrate on winning the war. As the
State Ministry had no more to do with the
war than with Fiji it Yvas a cheeky excuse ;
but it went down with a lot of people. Now,
though the war is still unwon, the Ministry
has arrived at the conclusion that the
country can stand an election, after all. As
Holman says, it “recognises that the moment
has now arrived to face its masters.” As a
matter of tactics the Government is no doubt
acting wisely. The Holman p.n. is rapidly
becoming very rare, and the rarer it gets
and the more serious the unemployment,
the worse it is going to be for Willie.
Willie marching in the van of Labor
brandishing an lOIJ and promising unlimited
work was formidable. Willie mourning
that the beautiful drunk is over and that
he can’t shout any more, and hinting that
the bill for all the old shouts is demanding
attention—that sort of Willie is a different
sort of Willie altogether. And Willie
knows it so well that, war or no war, he
rushes into a general election before other
people find it out.
The Chance for a Ne\v Party.
The protest made in the House of Reps, last
week by Mathews (Vic.) about “this
fiendish howl for economy” raises again in
this paper a joyous hope that the Fill ’Em
Up Again Party will get a definite place in
Australian politics. It would be a party
with one plank—advocacy of a great national
jamboree, with “Australia on the Scoot” as
its motto and battle-cry. If someone was
misguided enough to object to the expendi-
ture of £735.642 on sinking a well at Can-
berra and filling it up again, the leader of
the Fill ’Em Ups could at once rise to a
point of order, move that 17 more wells be
constructed and that the accounts be re-
ferred back to the Government for amend-
ment. Should the investment of £19,762
in a coat of paint for H.M.S. Brisbane be
questioned as dangerous, the opportunity for
moving a resolution in favor of scraping off the
coat and submitting it to a Royal Commis-
sion, vested with authority to take evidence
in Patagonia, Siam and Nigeria from local
experts, could be seized with hope and con-
fidence. And when some absurd skinflint
had objected to Parliament working a colos-
sal stall in the Northern Territory at a cost
of millions a year, Mathews could follow
appropriately enough with something in this
vein:—•
YVhat is all this wild talk I hear about economy?
The fiendish conspiracy to interrupt the flow of
cash has gone far enough. What is economy, any l
way ? It means reducing the number of Australian
Parliaments, retrenchment in Cocked Hats, checking
the duplication of work by Civil Services. Carried
to its logical conclusion it means that public money
shall be handled by Parliament as if it were part
of a trust —with the same prudence and considera-
tion that I exhibit in distributing my own salary.
Are we losing our imagination or what is the matter
that we should listen to such degrading talk ? Let
us be firm and spend—spend—spend ! Let us nail
our colors to the mast and borrow—borrow—borrow !
Australia has been marked out for a great destiny.
Part of it is to show the democracies of the world
that the weary old shibboleths of the French and
British economists are not entitled to hamper human
progress—that the idea of a people earning their
own living and supporting their national life by
mere industry and production is ludicrous. What
does it matter if the people who are not in this
House are so heavily taxed. that they are catching
gohannas in Sydney to make soup for the Lord
Mayor and that £4 a day is insufficient to catch up
with the cost of living? I move that anyone heard
using the words “waste,” “muddle” or “extrava-
gance” in a public place be charged with making
seditious utterances calculated to interfere with
freebooting.
Whereupon the motion could be carried with
acclamation and the House proceed to appro-
priate £98,000 to defray the cost of repairing
the roosts in the fowlhouses at the national
capital.
decorations.
Why hasn’t Australia an Order of the
Kookaburra to bestow on foreigners whom
she delights to honor? While Russia is
heaving round orders of St. Anne and St.
George, and little Servia gives away White
Eagles and Crosses of Karageorge, Aus-
tralia looks rather paltry with nothing at
< all to offer; and the more so that decora-
tions of. this kind represent good and cheap
advertising. It isn’t for our own heroes
we want the ornaments. They might pos-
sibly be too shy to put them on; but a
Grand Star of the Boomerang would be
quite valuable to the far-distant fighter who
would like to swagger in Bucharest or Mos-
cow with a token of Australia’s approval on
his manly front. . Big Universities are not
above doing a bit of subtle advertising by
means of their Doctors’ degrees. To select
a popular scholar or divine for ’the D.D. or
LL.D. is to let the public know through the
ables that such-and-such a university exists.
In the same way by giving the" Grand
Pouch of the Wallaroo to, say, Brussiloff
quite a number of people in Russia would
discover the existence of a country called
Australia. Of course it wouldn’t do to
make the decorations too common. Queen
Elizabeth taught us that. She didn’t
make a peer except on very strong provoca-
tion, and bestow T ed knighthood only for some
outstanding service. The first James
couldn’t see the force of the restricted
output of honors, and started to sell titles
like a draper’s assistant at his counter of
Great Summer Reductions. As a result the
handles that had made Raleigh and Haw-
kins glorious became mere mud. The sight
of a baronet in the street sent the people
looking for stale cabbages to throw at him,
and a new-made knight was ranked between
a. coal-heaver and a drunken washerlady.
Still, handed round in moderation, a few
characteristic Australian animals and
minerals might be worth their weight in
signed paper. Many a pleasantly-decorated
person might be willing to shell out a few
bob to help the country that provided the
gew-gaws, in the coming days of the Great
Cadge, when rich Australia goes cap in hand
to impoverished Europe to make good the
cost of all our expensive muddle.
Pews anti Pewters.
Concerning the movement in the Cold
Country to reform the nub by eliminating
private interest, cables now bring word that
the Anglican Church lias given its blessing
to the Sosli tiger as a reforming agency.
Canterbury Convocation has pissed a reso-
lution favoring State purchase of the liquet
trade. Incidentally, this Convocation meets
in London, not Canterbury, and takes its
name from the Archgaiters who presides:
it represents the southern half of England,
and is a legislative body older than the
House of Commons and recognised with it
as part of the British Constitution. The
chief opponent of the resolution was an
octogenarian dean, who feared tli t State
purchase would necessarily lead to prohibi-
tion- —which it won’t. The general council
of tin l C. of E. Temperance Society, at a
special meeting in London last December,
resolved by a majority of 50 to 29, after
five hours’ debate, “that this Council is of
opinion that in tin* future great benefits
would result if the nation secured by State'
purchase the full and immediate control of
the liquor trade”; so Canterbury Convoca-
tion has tin l temperance narty of its Church
behind it when it pats the Socialistic tiger.
Meanwhile in Australia the Church goes on
in the same old rut. chasing the local option
will-of-the-wisp and the prohibition fantod ;
and State ownership is mentioned in church
assemblies only to be cursed as a degra-
dation of the nation by traffic in the unholy
thing. Not a word was said about it at
the “Alliance” picnic in Sydney the other
day, when Canon Boyce was presented with
his portrait. The C.E. Temperance Society
is looked at sideways by Anglicans in Aus-
tralia because it aims at temperance and
not at fanaticism. The liquor-reform party
in England seems to understand wdiat tem-
perance really means. It is a pity it doesn’t
send a missionary to teach that meaning to
some of the cold-water cranks it has ex-
ported to Australia.
a .
Another instance of the awful Defence
Department’s efforts to help voluntary re-
cruiting : —•
My youngest brother enlisted in the 4th Battalion
and was killed at Gallipoli between August 6 and 9,
19X5. Before leaving he, no doubt thinking I could
best attend to his business, nominated me as next of
kin, although he had a wife and two children. On
receipt of the advice of. his death I made application
for a pension for his widow, and after some delay,
which was quite warranted under the circumstances,
I got it fixed up. I also made application on behalf
of the widow for the balance of his military pay,
and wrote perhaps 20 times about it. A little over
a year after his death—in September, 1916 —-I got
the form which I enclose. I wrote at once pointing
out that, for some unknown reason, the form asked
me to declare that I was the father of the deceased,
and I pointed out that I had a year previously
established the identity of a widow and children.
I again, however, gave them all addresses, certificates,
etc., that had been required previously. This simple
matter appears to have produced chaos in the
Department, as up to date (February 12) nothing
further has been heard of the matter, except that
a month ago a local sub-inspector of police called
and produced 40 folios of correspondence between
the Military Department and almost every police-
officer in Tasmania. He asked me to add a few
marginal notes to the huge collection he had, which I
did. It is now 18 months since my brother was
killed. His widow is still waiting for the unpaid
wages that were to his credit when he died. The
amount is admitted to be £6O Is. 4d.
Holman finds splendid scope for his
agility in his netv job. On his platform at
Gundagai when he poured out his first lot
of shandy were the boss Laborite and the
boss Liberal of the town, both now support-
ing him, one dead-sure that William is the
same old William, the other equally posi-
tive that William is a reformed character
who might now even be called Bill. With
his eye on the Laborite Holman announced
that the right of the labor union to run
daily papers and other business ventures
was to be secured; then whizzing to the
Liberal he winked and said that the union
wasn’t to have the right to compel any mem-
ber to support the business venture. Also
industrial arbitration was to be the law
of the land; but if the union didn’t like
arbitration it could elect to rely on strikes.
Likewise the settler could toss for it and
have leasehold or freehold just as he pleased.
The Laborite got the wink when the young
man in a hurry said that the laborer worked
so well that public jobs didn’t cost more
than they did six years ago; it was the
Liberal’s turn when it was declared that,
“there had been a diminution in the output
of the [Railway] men equivalent to 10 per
cent, during the last six or seven years,” and
the Government wasn’t going to stand this
shirking. And so Holman went on to the
bitter end, pouring out his Labor beer and
his Liberal lemonade, and “kidding” Canon
Boyce and Domain Dick that he was giving
’em both just what they wanted. It was a
slick performance; but -when Boyce wakes
up with a headache and a brown mouth
while Dick finds he gets no for’arder no
matter how much he sucks in, there will be
trouble. By then, however, the young man
■ hopes to be fixed for three years—or more
if he can again juggle the people out of
their electoral rights.
«.
The danger of being an Australian scientist
is growing. A director being required for
the Institute of Pathology and Medicine
at Melbourne, founded on the legacy of
Walter Russell Hall, of Mt. Morgan,
applications for the job were called by
advertisements in England during Decem-
ber, replies to be lodged with the Agent-
General of Victoria by January 24. No
announcement that an appointment was to
be made found daylight in Australia. No
Australian had a chance to apply unless he
happened to be in England. Australian
pathologists have been given to understand
by this calculated act of differentiation that
they are not wanted —that they cannot even
be considered. Who the individuals are that
are promoting the conspiracy to treat Aus-
tralian scientific men as if they were mere
professional bottle-ohs ought to be the sub-
ject of immediate research. When discov-
ered they should be put under surveillance ;
for this sort of thing represents the Stinking
Fish policy in a state of dementia.
The llolman Shandygaff Government says
that those State enterprises that don’t pay
their way must go; and that is the only
sane policy, especially at a time like this.
The State enterprises which the Holman
Labor Government established are not
Socialistic. They were not established to jus-
tify a principle. They were mere vote-catching
jobs. Being corrupt in their genesis and little
better in their administration, they had no
hope of being public benefits. They have
been, and still are, thronged by men who
don’t care two straws about, making a
success of public enterprise. The time is
ripe for many things; but apparently it isn’t
ripe for wholesale Socialism. We shall have
to learn what the aims of the thing are first
and got men earnest to make it a success.
The Labor party must begin over again, and
its loaders must be educative. For years
past they have been merely billet-lmnters.
This is from a man who has done a lot of
fine work for conscription and recruiting:—
J can’t stand this sinful farce, the recruiting cam-
paign, any longer.
This is its history so far in our suburb. On
December 14, 1910, two recruiters (price £8 10s.
per week) came into the district and camped in
the drill hall, waiting for instructions. They put
in the time by sending printed appeals (foolscap
and Id. stamp) to. all proclamation attestees —includ-
ing the medically unfit, the enlisted and the dead.
Up to January 8, 1917, no replies—not even from
the dead. On .January 8 the number of recruiters
was increased to six, wages about £3O; incidentals
£5. They were still without any instructions, plans,
posters or telephonic communication with the rest
of the world, and they were told to do something—
not specified. On January 10 a monster recruiting
meeting was called —by a one-inch ad. in a local
paper. Twenty-two turned up, all (as far as I could
make out) ineligibles, formed themselves into a
committee, and, having no plans, instructions, funds
or status, did nothing. One citizen offered £5 a
head as a stimulus to the first 10 enlisting. On
January 11 five men turned up for the bonus; but
as no one knew where the recruiting centre was
hiding the five went into Melbourne to enlist. In-
quiry from a local brass-hat elicited the recommen-
dation to tell the “ s to get their heads read!”
January 12 to January 16, £3O a week going on —
nothing else. On-January 16 our local recruiter
resigned from the weariness of waiting for something
to do. January 3 7 to January 24, , £26 a week
going on —nothing else. On January 24 an electo-
rate council met,, and finding it, too, had neither
means, plans, instructions nor status, decided to do
nothing—but talk. It learned, however, that the
six recruiters had gained 27 recruits, 13 of them
through the Melbourne Town Hall. They would pro-
bably have drifted there anyhow. This worked out
.at about £5 10s. per head, without incidentals or
final medical test. January 31, another monster
recruiting meeting called. Ten turned up, all
(apparently) ineligibles, and still having no plans,
status, etc., and not even a military representative
present, continued to do nothing. February 2 : Calm ;
but no recruits. £5O all gone. It is proposed to
hold another monster recruiting meeting next week.
£3O a week still going on.
That’s the programme ; the method is even better.
A new recruiter sent to replace one who
resigned proves to be a firebrand who stumped Mel-
bourne, particularly the Yarra Bank, during the
conscription campaign as a violent anti. His ap-
pointment is minuted by the Director: “This man
will need supervision.” A pledged advocate of
'Ye’ve-Done-Enough and Reduce-the-Divisions, a
believer in the Maltese and coolie labor bogeys, he
it is who is to entice recruits in swarms to the
colors 1 Headquarters campaign-recommendations
boil down to a plan for a monster procession (in-
cluding women and children) on a Friday afternoon
(Friday, ye gods! Pay and premier shopping day!),
recruiting concerts mixed with speeches, and pen-
nants or tin shields on houses to show those which
have sent representatives to the Front. Are sane
MEN to be attracted by childish stunts like these?
And are sane citizens going longer to stand the
national degradation of a money-wasting fake like
this?
“Die Mini”: It is plain that Randolph
Bedford’s knowledge of Eureka is derived
from history-books tinged with the politics
of the party always found in every com-
munity ranged against the Government.
The leaders of the diggers at the Forest
Creek demonstration, at Castlemaine and
on Bendigo were different men altogether
from Randolph’s noble mob of swash-
bucklers in the Eureka Stockade —“Irish,
French, Italians, Poles, Germans, Yankees,
Canadians, Spaniards, Scotch, English,
Nova Scotians, and more Irish than
any.” As in the recent case of the
I.W.W. blackguards, there were no Aus-
tralian-born amongst the rebels. They
were not “the pick of the Old World, leav-
ened by the ’forty-niners of California.”
The decent, respectable men of Ballarat did
not join in the riot against the police and
the soldiers. It was a fight by foreigners
against a despotic police force controlled by
a fool Governor. Bedford grandiloquently
cries, “Liberty sprang from the bodies of
the 20 mates who died on Massacre Hill.”
Piffle, pure piffle! There were about 250
men on each side, and the scrap lasted
exactly 25 minutes! Liberty as we enjoy
it is a plant of very slow growth. It has
been gradually won from authority during
hundreds of years of sacrifice by our ances-
tors. The Eureka gang was not fighting for
anything but the abolition of the diggers’
license fee. To say they “demanded a
House of Representatives, a Senate, pay-
ment of members, manhood suffrage, short
Parliaments, a citizen soldiery, taxation of
property and an absentee tax” is simply a
distortion of facts and of political history.
The Eureka of 1854 did not “give us the
liberty of 1916.” Graham Berry’s over-
whelming victory at the elections on 11th
May, 1877, ended the bad old regime and
really gave us the incomplete liberty we
enjoy to-day. For there are a lot more
things we still want politically, such as
better government, with honest finance, and
a system of high Protection to make us
free industrially. Instead of bowing the
knee to Vern and Lalor, we Victorians
ought to enshrine Higinbotiiam and Berry
as saviours of our freedom.
♦
To the suburban Australian who under-
stands the Northern Territory to be at
Darwin and that it produces nothing but
the Gilruth pest and labor strikes, the re-
port of T. E. Day (one of the good men sent
north by Batciieeor when he was Minis-
ter) should be enlightening. A little while
ago this is what Day saw at Alice Springs,
Which, luckily, is something over a thousand
miles away from the head centre of depart-
mental troubles and veterinary influence :—•
Unlimited supplies of beautifully fresh water,
obtainable at 20ft. ; cabbages, cauliflowers, carrots,
peas, French beans, red and silver beet, tomatoes
and many other vegetables (which grow through-
out the year) ; grape-vines, sugar and Turkey
figs, dates, navel oranges, peaches, apples, pears
and mulberries looking remarkably well. Grapes
ripen about the middle of December ; figs are always
ripening and. very prolific; and two date-palms
yield 3cwt. of first-class fruit every year. Oranges
ripen in May.
When Beckett, Chief Inspector of Aborigi-
ne's, travelled thereabouts some time ago
he noticed and reported the same things,
and suggested that dates should be
planted through the dry centre-country in
every suitable spot that could be found,
lie and Day make it clear that if there
ever was a desert in those parts it has
changed its address, for what is there now
will grow the best fruit, vegetables, cattle,
sheep ami horses in all Australia. Day
omitted to mention in his report that it
was highly desirable to keep the
Darwin horse-doctor from making an in-
spection of the country, or an attempt
might be made to alter the policy of nature
by insisting that the proper things to pro-
duce at The Alice are sugar-cane and syco-
phants.
Some day when it has time to spare from
lesser things, Australia, maker and breaker
of military precedents, might put nurses
on the same footing as soldiers with regard
to pensions. There are many light billets
open to an intelligent V.C. winner whose
war service has used him up physically;
but the professional career of the trained
nurse who comes back to civil life broken
in health is in most cases definitely ended.
A country which rewards and compensates
its fighting men on such a liberal scale and
is so generous in giving to those who have
served and suffered, should not be content
to allow such an obvious injustice to con-
tinue. One more inspiring military pre-
cedent can be made at little cost by provid-
ing for the nursing sisters —not only for the
honor-winners, but for every woman who
can show a record of meritorious war ser-
vice. As creditors of the State they stand
not far behind Billjim himself.
♦
According to Hannan, M.P., Australia
“must not be bound to any fiscal agreement
at the Imperial Conference. That is a mat-
ter that rests with the Australian Parlia-
ment and people. .. .Certain countries are
pouring goods into Australia and threatening
to extinguish many of our industries.” Pretty
election piffle! Hannan has apparently
forgotten that in May, 1910, and again in
September, 1914, the people, accepting the
pledges of men who signed the Labor plat-
form, handed over the fiscal question to be
settled by them “in the first session of the
new Parliament.” As a sound Laborite and
good caucus battler, did Hannan make any
effort to kick Hughes and Fisher out of the
party because they broke their promises? As
for certain countries swamping us with
goods notoriously made by cheap colored
labor, what does that matter? As long as
we keep the colored man out the White
Australia policy stands, doesn’t it? Besides,
if somebody swamps us with cheap goods we
shall obviously have less work to do our-
selves. And who wants work?
. ♦
After N. S. Wales Premier Holman and
Attorney-General Davy Hall had been for a
walk the other day from Mount Tomah to
Ivurrajong, the faithful Davy explained the
landscape to a reporter :
This is the most beautiful part of N. S. Wales.
Imported English trees —oak, elm, larch, maple,
walnut, hazel and others —flourish luxuriantly.
Of course; and if the vegetables were deco-
rated with imported squirrels, a few giraffes
introduced to gambol among the hazels, and
the middle distance adorned with a drom-
edary, the scenery would be still more beauti-
ful. But Davy’s rhapsody fails in the
completeness of expression embalmed in the
opening chapter of a book now in the press
describing a tourist’s impressions of Aus-
tralia :
While walking from Cooktown to Toorak we were
delighted to see the thoroughness with which the
Australian people have applied themselves to the
task of clearing off the cedar, mahoganv, silky oak,
maple, stringy bark and other trees which occupied
the ground when the aboriginals wandered about.
The native forests have _ been almost completely
destroyed and the land is now ornamented with
Scotch thistles and rabbits, which provide the sturdy
population with exercise and impart to the landscape
a home-like appearance. When all the unpicturesque
local trees have been torn up and an imported wood
planted on the hilltops, visitors will not be
repelled by foreign-looking vegetation, and im-
ported birds and animals will impart to Australia
an aspect rivalling that of Merrie England.
Why should any country permit the rose-
wood and the cedar to cumber the earth
when the population can find employment
yanking them out and digging holes to
accommodate the elm and the larch?


Important to N. S. I Vales Farmers !
The N. S.WALES WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION ACT
COMES INTO OPERATION ON JULY 1 OF THIS YEAR.
On and after that date the employer of laoor is legally liable to provide compensation to any employee injured in his service.
The only satisfactory method of covering this risk is by insuring with a reputable company.
Which is the best co. for the farmer?
T h jFarmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
THE Farmers* Insurance Co.
A co-operative company owned by the farmer and controlled entirely in his interests,
A company in which the share-holding policy-holder secures the profits created by his business.
ustralia
Limited.
Write early for
full particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches in QUEENSLAND,
VICTORIA & S. AUSTRALIA.
The Wait for the Big Clash.
Senator Gardiner, lately Assistant Minis-
ter for Defence, has been expressing the
opinion that the war may be over bv October.
It; so, then the happenings of the next six
months are going to make Armageddon sound
like another word for a Sunday-school picnic.
Not only will the German have to be rooted
out of France and Belgium, but he must be
induced to adjourn from Russia and Rou-
mania and Servia. The Bulgar will have
to be jumped on, the Turk induced to throw
the towel in and the Austrian started on
the reverse gear. To The Bulletin this
looks a very big job. And yet it represents
only part of what the Allies have to accom-
plish before the war is terminated by the
defeat of Germany. It may be terminated
otherwise; but that surely is nothing to
look forward to with joy. - The outstanding
fact to-day is that Germany will not be
beaten until her armies are wrecked on the
East and West and Allied armies hold the
Danube and Constantinople. Is it believ-
able that this can be done in six months?
To this paper it seems that Australian
public men would be doing something more
useful if, instead of talking about peace in
October, they were telling their countrymen
of military age that the enemy is still power-
ful and holding fast to conquests of enor-
mous value and extent —that peace negotia-
tions are impossible as the situation stands
to-day, because any negotiation -would be
with Germany holding a full hand. Mean-
while the results of submarine frightfulness
remain shrouded in gloom, Uncle Sam con-
tinues to suspect that he will have to get
thoroughly riled, Greece is apparently the
same old conundrum, and snow and rain
and mud are plentifully distributed over the
landscape. It is a year since the battle of
Verdun commenced. The Germans were very
hopeful then. In a few weeks other battles
will have started, and this time the Allies
are hopeful. When these have been raging
for a month or so both sides will be able to
guess the future better than they can do it
this morning. But whatever happens, it is
the height of folly to delude ourselves into the
belief that it will necessarily be conclusive.
That way disappointment and despair are
very apt to lie.
«
N. S. Wales Marine Court lately considered
the loss of the coasting packet Belmore, at
the Macleay entrance, North Coast. Evi-
dence was given that there was six feet on
the bar, which had unexpectedly shoaled up.
and, as the boat drew seven, the Court had
no difficulty in deciding what caused the
disaster. The master stated that there were
not any warnings flying from the station,
and the question arose whether he was
justified in going in without a signal—was
he bound to wait for one until the signalman
woke up or recovered from his swoon or
something? The Court decided that the
master was so bound, and awarded him a
nominal punishment. Then it displayed
unusual sense in asking the Superintendent
of Navigation why the signals were not
always kept flying when the bar was blocked,
instead of being stowed away until a vessel
popped up. The trouble is that the direc
tions for harassed coastal skippers are
utterly inadequate. All other Australian
States issue sailing directions, but N. S.
Wales seems to rely on the British Admi-
ralty, whose directions for this coast have
been brought up as far only as 189.>. The
bars, however, change every month. ,T. C. u.
Fitzpatrick, who now administers Naviga-
tion matters, might find time to stir up the
Department. Meanwhile the skipper takes
his directions from the owner, who says:
“Cross in and cross out —safely, of course ;
but if you don’t cross, there are others who
will.” He doesn’t put it that way, but the
man who makes most trips in and out dur-
ing the year is the one who keeps his job.
The war started with Cook in command.
Then there was Fisher. Hughes followed.
Ilughes-Pearce came next. Now the coun-
try has Hughes-Cook. And if that does not
suit the electors will have a chance of
acquiring Tudor, provided nothing happens
in the meantime to make Irvine coalesce with
Anstey or Willie Kelly rush to the assistance
of Ferricks. In any case and whatever
happens we can lie dead-sure the successful
scramblers will call themselves a War
Ministry.
As a matter of cold fact members of N. S.
Wales Assembly are not bursting with
enthusiasm because a general election is
going to be held next month. The politician
hates nothing on earth more than having to
scramble 'for his job—nothing he would like
better than the postponement of all general
elections for 75 years. Mopt of the men
who will soon be howling at Holman for not
holding the elections in December instead of
March have been secretly thanking their
gods he didn’t do it; most of those who will
extol him for “facing the masters of Parlia-
ment” instead of remaining in a dugout are
suffering agonies of remorse because he aban-
doned the opportunity to stay there.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pink Lady^
Palace .... “Very Good Lddie
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Onion Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Smart Set
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built
Royal “Intolerance
Princess’s “The Rivals”
Kino’s “Turn to the Right
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “A Daughter of the Gods
After • spending several years in the
J.C.W. cold store, “The Pink Lady” came
out on Saturday and met all the Sydney
first-nighters at Her Majesty’s. The plot
(borrowed from a French farce) is built on
the well-established French joke which Le
Rire uses in almost every number—an
elderly but passionate gentleman in tireless
pursuit of all possible and impossible vic-
tims. The old jest is worked in adroitly. A
desperate bridegroom-elect, who lias been
tracked to his clandestine lunching-place by
his jealous fiancee, tells her that he lias
come, not to meet a woman, but to chat with
a balloonist friend to whom he cannot possi-
bly introduce her, “because —well, because
he’s a satyr !” The actress-friend, who is
The Pink Lady, then arrives for lunch,
and, being: warned by the fiancee’s nincom-
poop cousin (another characteristic French
character), says she is the balloonist’s wife.
Her husband, poor fallow, lias been kept
at home by a sudden attack of lumbago, and
she has come to tell the friend who is expect-
ing him. An address being demanded by the
fiancee, the lover gives her that of an
elderly dealer in antiques, who, in the next
act, is rushed by the guilty pair and per-
suaded to play the part of a satyr by pro-
mises of a wonderful snuffbox he wants to
complete a collection. All the chorus ladies
(some programmed as “maids” and others as
“victims”) flock to see him and make love
in rapid succession, while a staid old French
wife has fits and calls in the doctor. The
curtain falls on him arrested as a notorF
ous character wearing pink pyjamas and a
chaplet of leaves specially brought from the
woods for his crowning by the six eager
“victims.” The last act is all polite stage
revelry (“The Ball of the Nymphs and
Satyrs”), with the once -staid old gent
strutting about singing “The worst of it is I
like it!” As the Royal Comics play it, this
(once) high explosive is a little less danger-
ous than a Sunday-school picnic. Anyone
who has ever attended a Sunday-school picnic
can estimate the exact amount of peril.
*■ * * *
Phil Smith, as the antique dealer, is
chubby, amiable and full of moral princi-
ples that are not too high. He looks like a
“THE PINK LADY,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Two satyrs (Smith and Ritchards), and
Reg Roberts in a fighting mood.
French Pickwick, and, in his own Smith-
sonian way, gets a fair amount out of the
rich part. Florence Young, as a starchy
French countess whom he kisses by mistake
during his first satyr impersonation, has a
small part with one capital concerted num-
ber which is full of humor, with acting
chances for nearly everybody. Celia Ghiloni
is admirable when, as the distracted old wife,
she pads wearily after her dazed husband
screaming between indignant chorus blasts :
“Did you do it?” i.e., insult the Countess.
Young Nellie Payne smiles and smiles in
several frocks as the frivolous young wife of
innkeeper Jack Ralston, of the fruity old-
port voice. Reg Roberts and Frank Green
play the parts of rival lovers with more fat
than lire; and Leslie Holland shambles
about quietly as the nincompoop cousin of
Ethel Cadman, who, as the jealous fiancee, is
deeply emotional from the teeth up. In the
last act ffiie is dressed as a Spanish girl—-
one of your fiery sort; only the fire was
never lit. Minnie Love, as The Pink Lady,
isn’t very alluring or distinctive ; she is just
pretty, and shows up the wailing properties
of her small voice in a particularly mushy
American ballad of “home” —a maudlin thing
that would be more worthy of “The Drink
Lady.” It shouldn’t be pushed in amongst
Caryll’s music, some of which (Florence
“ INTOLERANCE ,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Albert L. Grey explaining the message of
D. W. Griffith's motion picture,
“Intolerance.”
Young’s number, for instance) is on a com-
paratively high plane and deserves better
vocal treatment than most of the principals
can give it. Dancer Clyde Cook is humor-
ous again with his feet and hands, and
ballet-mistress Minnie Hooper earns a cheer
for the fluttering nymphs’ ballet —one of the
artistic items of the big show. Maie Baird
and Cyril Ritclnirds (a very long-legged and
gentlemanly Pan) are the toe-soloists in this
refined revel. Imagination doesn’t reel at
the splendor of the mounting, and (in the
last act) various principals take turns at
doing the famous Waltz to death. There is
no need to teach the public this air. The
disc records have been doing it during the
long years The Lady has been in the Firm’s
ice-chest.
* * * *
“Very Good Eddie,” is likely to have a
good long camp at Sydney Palace. The
bright little show has the interest that new
personalities and an unusual setting give,
and chief-comedian Barry Lupino’s quiet
methods are unlike those of any practitioner
now in town.
The weather at Sydney Criterion con-
tinues sultry and the temperature high ; but
diffident patrons of “Fair and Warmer” will
be reassured by the notification on the pro-
gramme that “the fire-resisting curtain is
lowered once during every performance.” It
has to be.
Australian Fred Bluett- is now doing his
joyous libel on the Boy Scout at Sydney
Tivoli, whose advertising motto seems to be
“Bluett Now !” Basso Malcolm McEachern
helps him to represent our own country on
the flying bridge of the bill, while singer
Belle Oliver, comedienne Marie King Scott,
Lady Sen Mei and “trickster” De Forrest
(not to be confused with Federal Treasurer
Bigjohn) are handy in the saloon with the
Takiness Duo, Flying Weavers and Niagara
and Falls.
The Smart Set is running some rollicking-
little turns at the Garden Theatre (Sydney)
- —“miniature revues” the management calls
them. They are cut to measure between the
monotony of the common or garden “revue”
and the incoherent clatter of the dashitoff
species. Last week’s, “The Grand Hotel,”
was a model in this respect. The show is
back at its old opening time this week
(8.15). __ _ ;
This season’s “daredevil” act at the White
City (Sydney) is performed by the Ben-
tines, and if the jaded citizen wants a
thrill that’s the place to go for it. The male
partner climbs 120 ft. up a “scenic mountain”
to save his wife from a blazing hut. He
offers no apology for this foolhardy act so
The Bulletin suspects the lady to be reallv
somebody else’s wife. Seizing her with his
teeth (perhaps, after all,* she’s his own
wife) he up-ends himself, grasps a wire rope
by his corns, and drops like a streak of
vaselined lightning. If he were to hit the
earth from that 120 ft. fall the war in Flan-
ders would be liable to be jolted across the
Rhine.
This week’s films in Sydney:—
. Hoyt's : Ethel Barrymore in “The Awakening of
Helena Ritchie,” expounding the disadvantages of
too much drink and a surplus of lovers. “Interest”
and comedy items as usual.
Lyceum: “The Microscopic Mystery,” introducing
some splendid examples of the combined use of the
microscope and cinema amongst bacteria; “The
Devil’s Double,” the adventures of a perfect gentle-
man who proves the proprietor of Hades to be a
poor amateur.
Crystal Palace: “The Australian Timber Indus-
try,” an interesting ramble among the big sticks
on the Manning River (N.S.W.) : “Somewhere in
France,” a film adapated from Richard Harding
Davis’s great war story.
Lyric : On Monday next the Australian Famous
Features co. will present its version of the “Murder
of Capt. Fryatt,” with Harrington Reynolds as the
butchered skipper.
** ❖ *
The benefit to Gregan McMahon occurred
at Melbourne Playhouse on Saturday. The
programme opened with the first act of “The
Pigeon,” in which Galsworthy endeavors to
give charitable relief a coating of bourgeois
philosophy. The excerpt was rather a pill
for a semi-fashionable audience on an
oppressive evening, and probably most of
those present on Saturday swallowed the
medicine with a grimace. Gregan McMahon
again cleverly realised the character of the
tramp, Louis Ferrand. T. Skewes, as Tim-
son, the cabby, sacrificed a fresh and hearty
appearance on the altar of realism. Guine-
vere Megan, the flower-seller, was rescued
from dullness by Miss Audrey Anderson;
but the part of Ann Wellwyn was suppressed
to the verge of insignificance by Miss Muriel
Webster. Helton Daniel!, expected to pro-
vide light and shade in the important role of
Christopher Wellwyn, early extinguished
the light, so to speak, and filled the picture
with the shadow of a mournful personality.
St. John Ilankin’s “Two Mr. Wetherbys,”
which followed the slice of “The Pigeon,” is
a somewhat tenuous comedy, wherein the
spook of O. Wilde can be dimly discerned
juggling fitfully xyith the dialogue. The
piece furnished some humorous moments for
Gregan McMahon, who, as Richard Wether-
by, is a sort of philosophic octopus entan-
gling his neighbors in his theories of life.
Gregan, acting capitally, and with all the
vagabondage of Ferrand removed, stood for
the Word, the Flesh and the Devil (in that
order) to his stage brother, James, quietly
played by Frank Allanby.
Outraged propriety continues to be dis-
played with hysterical effect by “The Mis-
leading Lady,” at Melbourne Royal. Having
paid the penalty for a heartless joke by beiug
detained in Craigen’s shack, she tries to re-
trieve her false position by starting fairly
from scratch and indulging in all the other
feminine violence of which the human cat is
capable. Flapper admirers consider the lady
impressive in her fury, but she cannot com-
pare in spectacular effect with the poor
loony visitant described as “Bone.y.” Boney.
however, has only two more nights to meet
Wellington at Quatre Bras. On Saturday
the Royal becomes an academy of moving
pictures from the big sextravaganza entitled.
“Intolerance.”
The time is approaching when this paper
will cease to comb its thoughts for fresh
things to say about “The House that Jack
•Built.” On Saturday Melbourne Majesty’s
muezzin, on calling the faithful to the box
office, hurried up the stragglers with a curt
announcement of “Last nights!”
. Shylock continues to howl about the loss
of his daughter and his ducats at Melbourne
Princess’s. Also, he is keenly lamenting the
force of the legal decision which deprives
him of IGoz. of fat Antonio. Frequently the
bitterness of his defeats drives the Hebrew
to frenzy. Ilis hands clench, his eyes roll,
and his voice, rising under the stress of his
disappointment, reminds one of a clinical
demonstration at the Dental Hospital near-
bv. Wilkie takes the Yid’s tragedy too much
to heart, and his baritone is palpably feeling
the strain. Possibly on that account he is
taking a comparative rest on Saturday in
“The Rivals.” which has not been seen in
Melbourne for many years.
For three nights commencing last Satur-
day Allen Doone wore the white wig of a
blameless priest who combines with the holy
trade of soul-culture the mischievous energy
of a matchmaking mamma. Fadher Doone’s
matrimonial schemes are a great success,
however, and he talks the reluctant into
wedlock wid a voice and manner that would


df
HENKES'
SCHNAPPS
Holland's best production—an absolutely ideal tonlo.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
hdfg
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
FIVE NIGHTS. EIGHT- DAYS.
APRIL 3 TO APRIL 11, 1917.
£9OOO PRIZES £9OOO
ENTRIES CLOSE.
Export Butter, February 27; Wines, February 27; Horses, March 3 ; Cattle, Sheep and Pigs, March
5; Poultry, March 6; Dogs, March 8; Agriculture, Fruits and Dairy Produce, March 9; Women’s
Industries, March 10; Miscellaneous, March 17.
PRIZES SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney. H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
i
&/
r
f
STRENGTH—IN SHIRTS
Fine light material embodying strength without
weight; correctly sloped neckbands, giving com-
fort; sleeves of »equisite length.
These are some of the advantages in the
Peapes’ Summer Oxford Shirts —ready-to-wear.
The material is shrunken white Oxford with
neat blue and black stripes. Cuffs stiff or soft,
as preferred. Good style and srood value.
Please state linen-collar size.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
be irresistible in a wild-cat promoter or a
softgoods drui mer. Last night the.artless
Allen was to resume his youth and pour out
his emotions in song and blarney in one of
his earlier spasms, “In Old Donegal.” This
piece will keep Allen holding, his hand over
his Irish heart until to-morrow night. Ou
Saturday comes "Turn to the Right,” the
Taits’ first venture in Amurkan comedy-
drama.
THE PANTO., AT HER MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Farmer Barleycorn and the Dame start
building a house.
The first section of the Melbourne Tivoli
programme has been slightly strengthened by
the addition of (-1) an educated banjo in the
hands of one Markley and (2) Billjim’s dog
Anzac, who is well up in military drill. After
the individual turns have had tlieir say, the
Passing Show whizzes before the grateful
spectator in glittering irrelevancies and tire-
less legs. One passenger—a soulless song-
stress named Leviere —fails to pass with
credit, but all the others win diplomas. A
double first is granted to Sydney James,
whose humor as warbler, ventriloquist and
comedian is rich enough to make one bilious.
Annette Kellerman is still leading a weird
and wonderful existence at Melbourne Audi-
torium. If Annette’s wanderings were pro-
perly charted, her trail would resemble the
contortions of a python with a pain in the
appendix, or the divagations of Bill Holman
looking for a pawnshop.
Among the new items by the Dandies at
St. Kilda (Vic.) last Saturday was a song
entitled “Sadie,” made public by John
Campbell and Linda Ockleshaw. Miss
Pearlie Mackenzie also led out a vocal
stranger in which she asked for “Just One
Kiss” and was practically told to make it
a shipping order. An alleged burlesque of
“The Colleen Bawn” finished the evening’s
business. In this brief triviality Harry de
Itobeck was absolutely lifelike as an out-
of-work actor. Also the round, cherubic
countenance of Ben Calvert shone like a
doctor’s stbeet lamp in the confusion.
“The Reward,” the latest thrill at Hoyt’s
Me]bourne headquarters, features a chorus-
girl who scorns late suppers. The curio,
who is named the Iceberg -on account of
her respectability, is presented with all the
aspects of maidenly reserve b. the popular
Ince favorite, Bessie Barriscale. “The
Stolen Triumph,” which treads on the tail of
“The Reward,” mentions the sad case of
a dramatic genius who allows his brains to
be picked by- a dishonest producer. In
this film there is enough assorted tragedy
to give pessimists a delightfully miserable
evening.
The Tivoli Follies have pushed melodrama
out of the Adelaide Tivoli. The advertiser
of this crowd gets in some fine work, com-
paring the humor of Jack Cannot with that
of Hughes, and his voice with that of Paris
Nesbit. Other Follies, a partly-American
lot, are giving at the Majestic a burlesque
which they call a revue. The acrobatic
work of Montambo and Wells at this house
is funny as well as clever. The most strik-
ing picture in sight at the moment is a
White Slave story, built in America. The
Chief Secretary has licensed this production
as a valuable moral lesson. It continues the
frightening effect on spinsters which “Dam-
aged Goods” began; they now realise that
their only hope in life when spoken to civilly
by any good-natured stranger (of either sex)
is to yell for the police and run for home.
A scheme for putting State ferries on
Sydney Harbor was recently considered by
the Parliamentary Works Committee. The
S. M. Herald was quite alarmed at this
“proposal to spend more money on State
works during war time.” But it needn’t
have worried. The consideration of the
ferry scheme does not involve the expendi-
ture of money in State works. It merely
involves the payment of fees to members of
the Committee —another of the gross scandals
which have grown up under machine govern-
ment. Actually under this system the coun-
try is bled in fees to provide parties—or
one party at any rate—with fighting funds.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Micawber” : No harm in telling this one
now. The late Bracey was rehearsing the
Williamson Repertory Co. in the West when
it happened. They were having a run
through comic opera, and it was long after
luncheon hour when Henry, hot, but unper-
turbed, said to one of the principals, in his
most urbane manner, “Try it over again,
please!” The lady, hungry and furious, re-
torted, “Mr. Bracey, you can go to Hell!”
and bounced off to her dressing-room. Five
minutes later, Bracey, indignant, but out-
wardly calm knocked at the star’s door.
“Madame,” he said, as he confronted the
furious inmate, “if you can forget for a
moment that you are a lady, kindly allow
me, for the same period, to forget that I am
a gentleman —and you go to Hell, too!”
“Jeune Premier”: Grahame Browne, the
English actor who is to accompany Marie
Tempest to these shores very soon, was up
till a few years ago the husband of Austra-
lia’s old stage-favorite Madge Mclntosh,
who successfully petitioned the Divorce
Court to cancel the contract. Browne is a
“good-looker,” and, what is perhaps as inter-
esting to some playgoers, a good actor.
THE PAIS TO., AT HER MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Sammy has a duel with a colonel.
Charles Waldron, the American leading
man who reappears in Australia this year
in “Daddy Long Legs,” has already played
in N’York and London in that piece. It
is a simple comedy of sentiment written
by Joan Webster, a niece of Mark Twain,
who died in the midst of its New York
boom a year and a half ago.
“E.T.”: The best gagging I ever heard
in my life was in the part of Lurcher in
Alfred Cellier’s tuneful “Dorothy.” Lur-
cher had only a page or two of MS. when
Arthur Williams got the part. But this
English comedian soon altered that, and
when he had finished with it (after a year
or two’s run) the rSle was nearer 50 pages
—all gag! True, the champion wheeze-
merchant wasn’t interfering with Shak-
speare or Sheridan, though he could do that,
too, when the chance offered. He was
once, in his stock days, entrusted with the
Apothecary in a hurried production of
“Romeo and Juliet,” and was earnestly en-
joined to speak no more than was set down
for him. He faithfully promised to
stick to the book. But when handed the
purse of 40 ducats by Romeo the tempta-
tion 'proved too strong. Weighing the bag
of money in his hand he glanced up at the
approving gods and made an exit, repeating
the catch-word ,of his last season’s panto-
mime, “Now we’re busy !”
"The Cutter”: “S.S.” (B. 8/2/T7) de-
plores Florence Rockwell’s inability to dress
well on the boards and on that account
doesn’t give the lady a ten-to-one chance of
making good with her audiences. There is
a lot of truth in the contention. But, curi-
ously, the same thing does not hold true of
the male mummer. For instance, the lead-
ing man playing opposite Miss Rockwell
is a tremendous favorite with the gallery-
girls and dresses deplorably. Some of his
parts fit him. His clothes never.
“Floater”: Cyril Maude, whom the Firm
is importing for a season in Australia, will
probably briug in addition to “Grumpy” a
humorous play called “Jeff,” adapted from
a yarn in Stephen Leacock’s “Sunshine
Sketches of a Little Town.” “Jeff” tells of
a waybaek comedy barber with a speculative
itch, and very little cash to relieve the irri-
tation. Under the title of “The Barber of
Maripoza” the piece was tried at Syracuse
(U.S.) the other day with considerable
success.
“Stargazer” : What patchwork dramatists
these Americans are! Their plays are like
their music, constructed of stolen fragments,
so that everything you get is audaciously like
everything you have had. “The Misleading
Lady,” showing at Melbourne Royal, is “The
Land of Promise” under an alias, and sub-
jected to sundry Yankee “improvements.”
Some of these “improvements” have been
lifted from “Seven Keys to Baldpate”; for
others the joint authors are entirely respon-
sible. In “The Land of Promise” the hero
gets his chosen woman to a hut in the wilder-
ness, and proceeds upon a rough-and-tumble
shrew-taming crusade. Precisely the same
thing happens in “The Misleading Lady.”
Even details from the former comedy are
employed in the latter plagiarism, the Ameri-
can embezzlers turning their heroine on her
captor with a gun just as the English
dramatist did. Then the Yank collaborators
fill in with illegitimate comedy provided by
a casual madman, much as previous Yanks
did in “Seven Keys” and “The Belle of New
York.” American playgoers, we are told, do
not object to this practice of renovating old
stuff they have appreciated in the past. And,
of course, art is of no consequence. The
Yank can only count in dollars.
“Cockaigne”: Winifred Emery, wife of
Cyril Maude, who is booked for Australia,
played in Sydney and Melbourne with her
father, Sam. In Melbourne they appeared
at L. L. Smith’s Polytechnic, now Y.M.C.A.
Sam, although a grand actor, was not lucky
in this country, probably because he had no
repertoire of leading parts. His father, John
Emery, was a remarkable mummer in the
days of Kemble and Mrs. Siddons. I assess
Maude to be the best character actor on the
English stage, though not better than Bob
Brough used to be.
Caruso is said to have earned £40,000 a
year for the past 10 years. He. has a con-
tract to sing 33 times in Buenos Aires next
summer at the rate of £1250 per night. And
it goes without saying that Caruso, being
an Italian, is not a tenor who flings the
golden grain to the winds like rain. He
seems likely to be the wealthiest profes-
sional singer on record when he gives up
the game.
“Bluebeard” : To me the worst fault in the
latest Yankee crook drama, “The House of
Glass,” is not the unreal pearls, the slat-
ternly boarding-house slavey or the tiresome
detective, but Frank Harvey’s dirty boots.
Perhaps, however, .as he is a great railway
director, his boots may have collected dust
walking over the sleepers of his various lines.
But that is no excuse for Leslie Victor, who
is Harvey’s Jap valet. He should certainly
be sacked. •
J‘The Cracked Tenor” : “D.M.j’ raises (B.
25/l/’I7) the question of the necessity for
Australian examiners in music, as iu other
subjects. The trouble is the everlasting one
of hard cash. It is only a year or there-
abouts since the Ma State recognised music,
as music, at all, when it instituted the Con-
servatorium; and it will take much more
than another year to make the scheme what
it should be. But when the Conservatorium
has enough funds at its command to pay
teachers as they should be paid instead
of as they are paid—upon an absurd percent-
age system—and to organise its plans
adequately, it will have the right to go to
the Uni. and demand that all examinations
in music shall be conducted locally. Then
foreign bodies such as those mentioned by
“D.M.” will find the weather exceedingly
frigid.
“Bluebeard”: Tyrone Power, who has
been appearing in the wailing film “Where
Are My Children?” has evidently taken the
lesson to heart. He has married again and
is the possessor of a brace of fine chil-
dren, a girl and boy. His first wife was the
late Edith Crane, who pattered her as
Trilby.
“S.S.”: A well-known society performer in
Melbourne volunteered to entertain a room-
ful of patients of the Kew Asylum one day
lately, and made up a very successful little
monologue show, entirely humorous. The
audience in the main gave symptoms of being
slightly bored, but one highly-intelligeut
maniac saw the whole thing in the proper
light, and clapping the talented actor on the
shoulder said: “Glad you’ve come, old fellow.
You and I will get along fine. The other
d—d dippies here are so d—d dignified.
What I say is if a man is mad, he needn’t
put on airs about it.”
“B. J.”: “Glen Iluntly” suggests (B.
18/1/T7) that if daylight saving is inter-
fering with theatrical profits shows should
be begun at a later hour. This would be
right enough so far as Yankee plays, which
average about two hours in actual playing,
are concerned, but with most other produc-
tions it would mean keeping an audience in
the theatre after 11 o’clock, which does not
seem to suit Australian playgoers. At about
11 o’clock an audience grows restless, and if
the show continues after that hour there are
always people who make for the doors. On
the first night of a pantomime a number of
people invariably miss the finale, and more
than once I have known the death-scene of
a grand opera to he trampled on in this
way. Probably the knowledge that the Vic-
torian trains are run on wowser lines, so to
speak, serves to speed the departing pest;
but whatever the explanation, the manage-
ment that tried the experiment would almost
certainly become unpopular in some quarters.
Comes a rumor from London that the
long-banned “Damaged floods” is about to
.be licensed for public representation.
Brieux’s play is, so it is said, to be utilised
as a propagandist drama with the blessing of
the War Office.
(Continued on page 20.)
According to Melbourne Herald, Hughes,
when asked to express an opinion of an
attack made on him by Dr. Billy Maloney,
replied eloquently : “Bah !” Apparently the
name should be spelt Ewes.
Durack, elected leader of the N. S. Wales
Labor party only three months ago, has
already found that he can’t stand it. He
wasn’t the outstanding man of the party;
as a matter of fact there is no outstanding
man, and he found that he would have to
light to establish his ascendancy. Unfor-
tunately he isn’t much of a fighter. He
made a bad start over the Broken Hill by-
election ; and then the general ele tion burst,
and his surroundings and prospects had the
really capable young man beaten. Storey,
who looks like his successor, has a good
personality, but scarcely Durack’s wit.
. Died in Melbourne last week, Mrs. Old-
field, aged 90. The daughter of Swifte, a
young barrister, she was born in Namur,
Belgium, but was reared in the Tower of
London, where dad had the soft billet of
Keeper of the Regalia, because he had been
junior counsel for George IV. in the suit
against Queen Caroline. Mrs. Oldfield’s
late husband founded Hobart Grammar
School.
Passed up at Alexandra (M.L.), Billy
Theyers, father of the Otago goldfields. In
the stirring days, when the price of most
things was about a fistful of metal, he traded
picks and shovels from an 8x 10 tent.
Later he ran up a big provision business at
Alexandra. He had washed up 86 years
when he was sent for.
E. H. Lascelles, Mallee pioneer, just dead
at 70, was a Tasmanian native. His grand-
father, Lieut. Lascelles of the 73rd Regi-
ment, was A.D.C. to Governor Davey in
1808. The son reached Geelong in his sixth
year, and at 14 entered the office of his
uncle, C. J. Dennys, where ability gained
him a partnership at 21. Ultimately he
became sole proprietor, and five years ago
formed himself into a limited co. He is in
some relation to the English ex-Ambassador
Lascelles at Berlin, who was surprised on
waking one morning to find the Emperor
sitting on his bed. “Oh,” says the Kaiser, “I
wouldn’t let your servants announce me.”
Much the same thing, by the way, happened
to England in 1914.
Labor Senator Blakey publishes the sur-
prising discovery that Prime Minister Hughes
is a Freetrader at heart, and that Parlia-
ment has broken its promises- to the people
on the question of protecting Australian in-
dustries. Now Blakey, having started to
talk, might tell us exactly why he and the
rest of the Protectionist majority in the
caucus didn’t give Hughes orders to keep his
(and their) promise or get out. It couldn’t
have been that they were unable to get rid
of him, because they kicked him out after-
wards over a question on which he had made
no promises. Hughes being a Freetrader at
heart, this paper wouldn’t expect him to
have any enthusiasm for a Protectionist
tariff. But it would expect Blakey and
other alleged high-tariffists to have some. So
Hughes, in this matter, hasn’t got so much to
explain away as Blakey and the other re-
creants have.
THE PICNIC PATRIOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melbourne picnic season is in full blast.
One day it is the grocers’ annual; the next it is
the butchers’ or the bakers’. Whosever it is, their
shops are all closed for the day.
The season of picnics is here!
Hooray for the trip on the Ozone,
A-chorusing ditties that cheer —-
The kind that the vaudeville pros, own !
A fat lunch, with plenty of beer —
We’re It, as the bay shipping cos. own!
We sparkle—there’s no other word —
As soon as we get to the speeches ;
No picnic has ever occurred
Without ’em. The various beaches
On divers occasions have heard
How loyal and win-the-war each is.
True patriots all; when we sing
“God Save,” at that air who can beat us?
What say? Better far serve the King
At the Front with the boys who entreat us
To give them a hand? What a thing
• At our jollification to greet us!
The spoil-sport you’ll meet everywhere;
The wowser must wowse without reason !
Fancy saying we don’t seem aware
A war’s on ! Rats! Picnics ain’t treason !
Australia, you bet, will be there—
Down the bay, in the holiday season!
VICTORIA.
SIC TRANSIT.


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a .Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
BEAUTY WITHOUT ROUGE, CREAM
OR POWDER.
A PARISIAN COMPLEXION SECRET.
Contrary to the usual belief, the most
beautiful French ladies rarely use rou2e or
creams or powders containing bismuth or
caustic alkali, claiming, and with very good
reason, that such preparations not oniv give
a made-up appearance, but ultimately ruin
the complexion. When asked what they
use to preserve and enhance their beauty
they invariably give the credit to the regular
use of an inexpensive lotion (obtainable of
any good chemist) prepared by mixing 2oz.
Rose Water with 2oz. Flowers of Oxzoin
and 1 dram Tincture of Benzoin. Apply
every night and morning with a soft cloth
or. sponge. It quickly tones up the dullest
skin and gives a fresh rose-bloom com-
plexion, such as is usually seen only in
youth. Although nothing has yet been found
which completely removes deep wrinkles,
this makes them far less apparent, and a
lady using it regularly is certain never to
have a badly wrinkled face. — Advt.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon 2/6
h la carte luncheon, from 1/6
Table d’hote dinner . 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“Mac D.” : A long, hungry Billjim wan-
dered into the new Australian Y.M.C.A. hut
at Aldwych (London) the other day and
ordered steak and eggs or something appro-
priate. The refreshment was a long time
coming, and when Billjim had cleaned up
the bread plate in anticipation he got up to
investigate. “Hi, Sis!” he yelled to the
hurrying waitress who had taken his order,
“git a move on with that feed!” Sis
jumped slightly, but got the desired move
on and thenceforward was quite the ideal
waitress. When the satisfied customer was
about to go a cobber edged along and told
him the attendant he had “worded” was Lady
Plumer, the General’s missus. The terrible
news didn’t stampede Billjim. “You blokes
is up among the ’eads ’ere all right,” was
all he said.
* * * *
“Chal” : MacCarthy, just arrived in Egypt
with the latest reinforcements, was on guard
duty for the first time. The sergeant’s
instructions had been forcible and explicit.
“If the General comes by, don’t yer blanky
well fergit. to turn out the blanky guard!”
“ ’Ow will a bloke know ’imV” groaned Mac.
“You’ll blanky well know ’im all right!
Look for the crossed swords.” Every senior
officer that passed was a possible general in
Mac’s eyes; but generals were scarce that
day. At last a warrant-officer of the Im-
perial Permanent Forces, swanking in all
the glory of his blue-and-white uniform and
red-striped slacks, approached. “Ah. here’s
the General at last.” thought MacCarthy.
“Such a fine bird can’t be anything less than
a general!” But the crossed swords were
missing. Still poor Mac. hesitated. The
W 0., acutely conscious of the sentry’s
dreadful stare, drew abreast, MacCarthy
still gazing at him as if hypnotised. He
passed, but could feel rather than see that
the sentry still stared. Flesh and blood
could stand it no longer. Turning sharply,
lie barked: “What are you looking at me
like that for? Don’t you give me a look
like that! By G —d, don’t you give me a
look like that!” Suddenly Mac tumbled.
“Me give you a look like that.” he said.
“Garn, you’ve had it all your life!”
* * * *
A distressing story comes from the middle
wastes of the East-West railway. It seems
that those “tuckerhouses” which that bright
financier,. Kink O’Malley, established “at
255. per week” were so profitable that the
Department lost £l2OO on them in six weeks ;
so Kink’s successor raised the tariff to
275. 6d. There was no demur; but when, at
one house patronised by some 150. auarry-
men, the breakfast menu comprised “ ’aman-
eggs” as the main dish, the usual steak hav-
ing got codlin moth or St. George’s wort or
something, there were grousings, a stopwork
meeting and finally a one-day strike —fol-
lowed by a demand on the Department for
full wages for the lost day! It is a
sad and solemn fact that Works Minister
Lynch coldly refused this demand, which
meant only a paltry £lOO. He even went
so far as to tell the quarrymen that if they
didn’t like ham and eggs they could have
had tinned meat or fish.
HELPING HIM OUT.
H IM: “There was something I wanted to
say, and I can’t think what it was.”
Her; “It wasn’t good-night, was it?”
“Kerani”: Our sergeant-major has
thoroughly mothered the art of “lending the
eye a terrible aspect” and his stentorian
voice never drops below battalion strength.
It is always good to hear him detailing a
.firing party in this wise: —
W’en the corpse comes out of the morgue, mor-
cheree or charnel-’ouse, as the case may be, the ’ole
will rest their ’ands on the butts of their arms
reversed and liassume a mournful expression in keep-
in’ with the solemn occasion—not too bloomin’
mournful, ’cause ’e’s gone to a ’appier ’ome—not too
bloomin’ cheerful, ’cause ’e’s a cobber of ours. As
the gun-carriage moves off the party will ’ang their
’eads, as laid down in King’s Regulations, and the
’ole will, if possible, drop a silent tear.
ALL CONVENIENCES.
BOSS: “I think you will suit. I hope, however, you’re not the sort of girl who is ever-
lastingly looking at the clock!”
GIRL: “Oh, no, sir! I’ve a wristlet watch!”
Some 20 years ago Victorian unionists
asked the Government to introduce the
butty-gang system at the Newport railway
workshops. It did so. Now some of the
unionists are asking the Government to
abolish it and. substitute day labor, and who
those “some” are can be guessed from a
return furnished by the chief mechanical
engineeer. It shows that on a passenger
car a butty gang took
507 days, day labor 651
days. The gang car
cost the department
±309, the day labor car
±335. The butty gang
worker earned an aver-
age of 12s. 3d.; the day
laborer 10s. Bd. On a
Tait carriage the butty
gang took 323 days, the
day-labor lot 585 days;
the first car cost the
department £252. the
other £322; while the
butty ganger averaged
15s. 7d. per day and
the day worker only
11s. The butty gang-
ers were neither ment-
a.l 1 y nor physically
more exhausted than the
others. The butty-gang
system is really co-op-
erative piece-work, and
there can be no questi n
which kind of work
pays the artisan better ;
s o before Minister
McKenzie comes to a
decision on the question
he might also consider
which pays the citizens
better. They have to
square the piper and
they ought at least to be allowed to suggest
the tur.e.
A South Aus. kid lias the distinction of
being made a leading case in the Supreme
Court. lie was charged in a country court
with having exceeded the speed-limit on his
bike. He pleaded guilty; but when the
prosecuting constable recounted the facts
the Bench said that no offence was dis-
closed, and dismissed the case. Then he
was taken to the Supreme Court, which said
the lower Bench had been all wrong in not
accepting his admission. So it imposed a
small line, but did not saddle him with the
cdsts. It may therefore be now taken as a
legal axiom that if you say you are guilty,
the Court takes your word for it and you
are guilty, whether you are guilty or not;
but if you say you are not guilty the Court
isn’t so confiding, and insists on having a
mind of its own.
If Australia had a real National Govern-
ment there wouldn’t be all this wretched
quibbling and evasion on the part of Min-
isters. There was a typical case in the
Reps, last week. Mathews had complained
that the Government was buying uniforms
in England which ought to be bought in
Australia ; whereupon the mouthpiece of the
Defence Department, instead of making a
plain statement of facts, did a side-stepping
performance:—-
Most of the troops in Great Britain were provided
with clothing manufactured in the Commonwealth,
and heavy shipments were continually being
dispatched.
If that, which is the daily-paper report, was
all that Laird Smith said, it begged the
whole of Billjim’s grievance. Bill turns up
in London with his uniform spattered with
blood and mud from the trenches. He can
get a new rig-out for nothing; but it isn’t
the Australian uniform. If he wants that
he is charged for it —half-price. It goes
down in his pay-book; and then it is left
to the colonel whether the debit is cancelled
or not. And it shouldn’t be. In too many
cases it means that that man escapes who
is best able to pay, while the bottle-o Bill-
jim with no pull has to part up.
DIRTY LINEN.
H E: “ Good, gracious, dearie; do you know
that man? His clothes are simply
filthy.”
SHE: “Oh, he's all right, except that he’s got
a divorce suit on.”
DON’T WORRY, LITTLE WOMAN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
France is a beautiful country.... France is worth
fighting and dying for. . . .The whole of France is
home to the Frenchman. .. .England is beautiful and
the girls mob us. — Letters from Anzacs.
Don’t you worry, Lady Ethel, don’t you worry—
not at all,
As the breezy hours blow by,
For a dapper little gunner who was pluckiest of all
(As the breezy hours blow by) ;
The fairest girls in Flanders may kiss him on the
train,
•But in your home in Darling Point you’ll find my
meaning plain—
The Mosman lights and Harbor lights shall beckon
him again
As the years go rolling by.
Don’t you worry, Sarah Johnson, don’t you worry—
not at all,
As the lurid days go by ;
Don’t you worry for your Billo who was “Stousher”
to them all
(As the gory days go by) ;
The bar at Ryan’s corner, the old “school” at Bal-
main,
The thoughts about his old ’uns in their home in
Red Rock Lane,
And how you used to stick to him shall bring him
back again,
As the years go rolling by.
Don’t you worry, Mary Kelly, don’t you worry—
not at all,
As the sultry days drag by,
For the careless, reckless rider who could climb the
mountain wall
(As the drowsy days droop by).
Don’t worry when the gullies and hills are dark with
rain ;
The thoughts of where he kissed you first for ever
shall remain. ,
The she-oaks in the upper bend shall sigh him back
again,
As the years go rolling by.
Don’t you worry, Ruth McLaughlan, don’t you worry
—not at all,
As the lazy days lag by ;
Don’t you worry for the plainsman who was through
and knew it all,
(As the drowsy days dozed by) ;
In summer, or in winter, you shall not wait in vain ;
The fogs that sweep like mighty hosts’ across the Red
Soil Plain,
The swishing of the red duststorm shall call him
back again
As the years go rolling by.
Don’t you worry, Annie Turner, don’t you worry—
not at all,
As the blazing days rush by ;
Don’t you worry for the shearer, who was bronzed
and straight and tall,
While the sandstorm hides the sky.
The grand old Darling timber, the camps of mate-
ship’s reign,
Where Federation had its birth, and Bourke’s great
soul was slain—
The memories of mulga-land shall call him back
again,
As the years go rolling by.
Don’t you worry, wide Australia, don’t you worry—
not at all,
As the breathing hours swell by,
From the sea-cliff and the sea-beach and the mighty
mountain \vall
To “out where the dead men lie!”
To plains that came by conquest, and towns that
came by chance,
From fighting for the homeland and the sake of old
romance—-
They’ll come to make their land a land worth dying
for, like France,
As the years go rolling by.
N.SAV.
HENRY LAWSON.


If you’re particular about what you drink make-
sure you get Thorne’s Whisky—in the black square
bottle. It’s the spirit that particular men particu-
larly like. Its subtle, delicate flavor—invariably
mellow, smooth and satisfying—makes it very accept-
able to a discriminating man. The perfect quality
has been maintained for over 80 years.
Try THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[1
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
hdf
BV
APPOINTMENT
h
TO
H.M. THE KING.
dfh
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS Sc CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
SCHWEPPES
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Made exclusively from Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice.
Breathes there a man who never yet has heard
The Name of Schweppes? The notion is absurd!
By Land or Sea —in North, South East, or West —
Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial is a Household Word.
Omar, thou sliouldst be living in these times,
Schweppes’ Rubaiyat to sing in rosy rhymes;
For ,lo ! Thy purple vintage pales before
The golden splendor of ifontserrat’s Limes!
SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL COMPETI-
TION PRIZE, Omar-Khayyam, 1010.
Obtainable at all Leading
Storekeepers.
-*;■ &
<? ,
IK
m
&SHBE&
dfgh
SCHWEPPE
NS
. 3u 4»* *nlr-
Grayem”: Add this to the yarn of
"Rio” (B. S/2/’l7). On Good Friday, just
before going into action at —, our ribald
lot of Billjims were greatly amused by'the
action of some devout French peasants who
sprinkled our 18-pounders with holy-water
and told us that we were safe now. Soon
afterwards the Huns commenced a big
strafe, and a French battery on our right
got it properly while some English guns on
our left were badly hit. At roll call every
Australian answered his name, and although
shells had fallen all a”ound not one gun
was reported hit. The boys are now ask-
ing “Was it just luck?” A little more of
this and some of our Devil-may-cares will
be forcing Father Rafferty to give them a
shower-bath every morning.
* * * *
Simple • Roumania, which provides Aus-
trian satirists with settings for their comic
operas, did even better than Australia, which
allowed a German to worm his way into a
military job where he could see everything
nicely. Roumania hired Socecu, a “natural-
ised” Hun, to command a Roumanian army
operating against Mackensen; and when
Socecu’s men had “turned” Mack’s left,
Socecu sat still and left the trap open. The
sentence of five years’ gaol makes this writer
hope that when he murders his best bore he
will be tried by a Roumanian court-martial.
* * * *
A unique advertisement foY Australia was
distributed among Admiral Beatty’s North
Sea Fleet and other British warships re-
cently. It was the first batch of midship-
men turned out by the Commonwealth Naval
College at Jervis Bay (N.S.W.) ; and the
old Sea Lion, having inspected, opined that
tli Australian cubs seemed hefty young-
sters who would have a bite in ’em when
their teeth grew up.
THE REASON.
Nora ; “He paid that other girl far more
attention than he paid me.”
Dora: “So he should. She’s his wife.”
“P.” : If the nicknames bestowed by affec-
tionate mates during the war survive, some
of the regiments of the future Australian
army should interest historical students.
For instance, there is “Ally Sloper’s Cav-
alry.” The initials on the badges of the
Army Service Corps were all the inspiration
Rilljim .wanted when he was handing out
that monniker. Incidentally, Billjim on the
Somme has evolved a new title for the “dud”
(shell which won’t explode). He calls it a
“Yank”—because it is “too proud to fight.”
“Q.F.”: One doctor on the West Front,
telling of the amazing number of hospitals
behind the lines, said lately: “And we should
need two score more if it wasn’t for Aus-
tralian jam.” Employees in Australian jam
factories can therefore regard themselves as
on the same footing as ammunition workers;
and when all is over they might present a-
couple of tins to the Kaiser as “the sweets
of adversity.”
MISTAKEN MOTIVES.
AMBITIOUS PARENT: “I notice you’re been
sitting out a good many dances with
Mr. Brownjohn."
ROMANTIC DAUGHTER: “Oh, but I assure
you, father, it’s purely platonic.”
AMBITIOUS PARENT: “Platonic, be d — d!
Why, lie's worth thousands!”
Beautiful cable from London:—
The-war loan subscriptions indicate there will be
a fine closing rally. A final demonstration will be
held in Trafalgar-square on Thursday. It will be
partially religious in character, church choirs par-
ticipating. They will sing the hymn, “O God, our
Help in Ages Past.”
This paper merely wonders what God thinks
of it.
* * * *
Maoriland railway manager Hiley has a
problem to solve. Twenty-five per cent, of
the permanent railway - staff have already
been given leave to go and kill Germans, and
now the marbles in the ballot
roll towards the other three-
quarters. In a recent week
27 of them were begged off
by Ililey at a sitting of the
Military Appeal Board. The
military wanted to know
whether race-trains, “show”
trains, excursions and other
“luxury services” ought to
keep men from carrying a
rifle in the nation’s extremity.
The manager said all he knew
was that the Government
authorised these attractions
and he had to prov’de .the
trains; so the problem is passed on to war-
lord Allen, who will have a sore Lead before
he settles it.
A simple-looking matter set the Law
scratching its horsehair recently. A Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) man was accused of drop-
ping poisoned baits in a local street; but
when the time arrived to give him legal in-
timation of,the fact the Law discovered that
it didn’t know how to set about it. No
modern statute filled the bill, and when, after
a lot of exploration in spidery catacombs, it
found something that seemed likely to serve,
the question arose whether the mouldy old
thing wa« still live law. The Law didn’t
know, but as nobody else seemed to know
either, the Law chanced it, and at the
Quarter Sessions sternly informed the
accused as follows :
You stand charged for that you, at Goulburn, in
a certain street there situated, being the King’s
common highway, and near unto the dwelling-houses
of divers liege subjects of our Lord the King, unlaw-
fully and injuriously did cause and procure to be
cast, thrown and deposited, and to remain on the
said public street, divers large quantities of poison-
ous matter, by reason of which the lives, health,
property and comfort of the liege subjects of our
Lord the King there inhabiting, being and residing,
going and returning and passing through the said
street, were endangered, to the great damage of
the liege subjects of our Lord the King aforesaid,
and against the peace of our Lord the King, his
crown and dignity.
The jury disagreed; but by that time the
taw was tired of being bushed in its own
fog, so it told the accused to clear out and
not come back until he was called.
Still another co-operative venture in
which Sydney trades unionists are con-
cerned threatens to go to
the ash-bin. Since the
Arbitration Courts came into
existence, trade unions have
paid away thousands of
pounds in law costs, while
some of the poorer organi-
sations have found it diffi-
cult to finance their cases.
Somebody noticed this, and
at his instigation the Labor
Council established an In-
dustrial Arbitration De-
partment, which was de-
signed to cheapen the cost
of proceedings and help
weak unions through.
“Monty” Henwood, one of
the most successful of
union secretaries, got the
job of Arbitration Officer.
But he threw it up some
time ago, and went into
business on his own
a c c o u u t, satisfied, seem-
ingly, that only those
unions that are forced by
circumstances to do so will
support their own ven-
tures. Denis Guilien now
has the job; but in a re-
port to the Labor Council,
which has to carry the
baby, it is hinted that un-
less the unions give the De-
partment more support it
will have to go. Meantime
several legal firms, which
deal largely in industrial
business, continue to fire in
sumptuous bills of costs
which are paid without a
murmur. ,
“The Sacristan” : Concerning that rosary
which is alleged to have carried Lindsay
Browne safely through the lighting in Flan-
ders (B. 8/2/T7),. “Rio” ends his tale witji
the remark, “And Browne is ‘Church of
England !’ ” Apparently “Rio” reckons that
a rosary can’t form part of an Anglican’s
religious equipment; but if he had been
with me lately at “Mass” in an Anglican
Church near Adelaide he would have seen
about half the congregation with rosaries
busy telling their beads. The same thing
may be seen, though to a less extent, at
Anglican churches in Sydney and elsewhere ;
and the London Church Times (Anglican),
ever since the war began, has been advo-
cating the rosary as a convenient prayer
method for T. Atkins at the Front. The
fact is that “Church of England” does not
denote one religion, but includes half a dozen
or more, ranging from the “Anglo-Catholic’s”
R.C-ism (minus the Pope), through various
grades of “high,” “broad” and “low,” down
to the Orange or Methody brand of Angli-
canism which has its Australian headquarters
in Sydney. The “establishment” of the
Church in England is the magnet which
keeps together these mutually repellent par-
ticles. Once the long-delayed disestablish-
ment arrives, there will be a general break-
up. Meanwhile, they scrap with one
another furiously, disturbing the rest of the
quiet old Anglicans who want to doze peace-
fully along the heavenward track without
troubling about any doctrine in particular;
and bishops and other complacent persons
point to the freauent scrimmages as- illus-
trating the “glorious comprehensiveness” of
the Church of England.
* * * *
Two Melbourne constables got into khaki
the other day. They weren’t going to the
Front. Nothing so hazardous. They were
going to the back —the back door of a subur-
ban pub—by which they entered “after
hours.” Representing that they were soldiers
from Broadmeadows, they were “treated” by
the boss to porter-gaff. The villainous hotel-
keeper subsequently made his appearance at
the police court, and was fined a fiver. There
is some talk of Chief Commissioner Sains-
bury retiring from his job. If he coun-
tenances this misuse of the King’s uniform
by his men, he can’t get out of his own too
quickly.
When, lately, a party of Canadians on
the' Somme front bought up all the ladies’
nightdresses available in a near-by village,
and donned them above tneir uniforms to
make themselves less conspicuous amid the
whiteness of the snow during a trench raid,
the German defenders surrendered at sight
of the beautiful frilly garments. The
Hun seems occasionally to have something
of the man in him, after all.
“Alfonso” : To earn his tucker the coun-
try schoolteacher has to do more than pump
knowledge into the youngsters’ skulls. Re-
cently the N. S. Wales Education Depart-
ment sent out young trees which had to be
planted in the playgrounds. The teacher, of
course, had to dig the holes. Out here in
the rabbit country the worm humbly applied
for netting, or something as good, to pro-
tect the trees from the pest. lie was in-
formed in a trumpet-blast that his Dept,
couldn’t afford it, but that the difficulty
could be easily climbed over by “getting the
neighbors to supply the necessity.” It was
also plainly insinuated that the teacher’s
efficiency marks would be affected by the care
he took of the pet vegetables. Of course,
this was only an indirect way of making the
poor schoolmaster dive into his own pocket
instead of the Dept.’s, for the cockies around
say they haven’t time to waste on Govern-
ment fads. “Besides,” shouted one old long-
beard, “what the do we want with trees
in the grounds? Ain’t there gum-trees for
miles and miles around, and a bigger
ncosance than them I never seen !”
“Eissim”: This is my experience as a
nurse. Four years ago a patient of mine
was a woman’who had become septic after
giving birth to a stillborn child. She died,
leaving four children, of whom two were
deformed and one was an idiot. The fourth
child was sickly and peevish. The father
has syphilis ; I am told, but I do not know
of my own knowledge, that he comes of a
stock that simply reeks with it. Yet, only
to-day, I read of his marriage to a young,
ignorant girl of about 11). Her father is
one of the many cowardly fools who refuse
(on religious grounds) to help-grapple with
the curse of the ages. If he dared, 1 think
lie would deny its existence. What earthly
chance has a girl got with a father like
that?
* * * *
G. 11. Adcock, principal of the Vic. Gov-
ernment’s Viticultural College, claims that
the place is doing good work for the vine-
growing industry and about paying for itself;
but he is prouder of what it does for the
“neglected” boys, wards of the State, who
are his pupils. They are just such boys as
went to the calamitous John Murray train-
ing-ship, but they seem to get on better. The
Principal claims that 90 per cent, of those,
over 100 now, who have been through his
hands, are good and useful citizens. lie
doesn’t say the other 4 per cent, are not;
he doesn’t know because he is out of touch
with them. So far, 42 are known to have
gone on active service. The Principal’s son.
Lieut. Adcock, is keeping up the reputation
of the place. He has been mentioned in
despatches for holding out against a 10-times
stronger raiding party of Germans, and has
been given the Military Cross.
LIFE’S LITTLE FAILURES.
SHE: “ John, I’m going to bed. See that you
shut up everything for the night!”
HE: “I’ll do my lest, my dear —I have done
my lest. But there are some things that
won’t shut up.”
“Rag”: The cry “Light work for wounded
soldiers!” has gone up, and I’m hoping that
it will be attended to systematically. While
homes are languishing for feminine help
you see loads of new girls pouring into town
to just the sort of jobs that are wanted.
What about every employer—both Govern-
ment and civil —having to furnish a com-
plete list of billets where women have dis-
placed men since the commencement of the
war? If we’re going to wait until Bill
and Jim come swarming home before we
worry about what’s to be done with them,
there’s going to be trouble —truckloads of
it.
EXAMPLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Hr. Asquith, in paying his tribute to the King’s
continuous self-effacement and devotion, said that
the King and Queen had set an example to their
subjects.”— Cable.
What though the freckled red-haired Irish lad,
The round-faced British boy, their pain have had ;
What though in No Man’s Land some daring deed
Buds with the glazing eye, the veins that bleed
Their life into the grass, clenched fingers tense
To hold to earth the wandering, weary sense—
All, all how trumpery when one has seen
The great example of the King and Queen !
What though the sailor drowns in drowning weed
After nerve-wracking wait for deaths with speed ;
M hat though in sleet and ice the drear North Sea
Claims all of youth for a dull Empery—
Heath coming from the deep, from out the height,
Where engined birds whir doom by day anti night!
But all is naught, cruiser or submarine,
To the example of the King and Queen.
hat though the soldier shall not quail nor blench
1 rom enfilading death in the deep trench;
Nor men of air, or sea, or depth decline
The horror of long waiting for the mine?
!• rom Common People ask we sacrifice;
But “Royal” drowsiness is worth its price—
Out with the handkerchiefs, let tears be seen
At the example of the King and Queen !
N.S.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


THE SLAVE MARKET.


“HAS ANYBODY HERE SEEN BILLY?”


Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 3Lst January, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Machine
Tools for Flinders Naval Base.
TENDERS are invited, subject' to the
conditions, of tendering, until 13, noon
on Wednesday, 28th February, 1917, for
the supply of Machine Tools for Flinders
Naval Rase.
Tender Forms, Specifications, etc., may be
obtained on application at the Office of the
Director of Navy Contracts. Navy (Mice.
Melbourne; General Manager. 11.M.A. Naval
Establishments. Sydney; aim at tno Naval
Staff Offices. Brisbane. Birkenhead, S.A.,
Hobart and Fremantle.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for
Machine Tools, Flinders Naval Base,” on top
left-hand corner of envelope, and addressed
to the Director of Navy Contracts, c/o-one
of the above-mentioned addresses, a-s the case
may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
forms, which can be obtained as above.
j. a. Jensen,
Minister of State for the Navy.
3
©
Sag
BOH
MS
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&WhITTY
imPt
swmi i 7 ai/i /)
MELBOURNE &SY&NEY
The Beast, as well as being starved, is
shortly to be hammered into submission,
saith the wise leaders of the nation inspired
by that wise spirit King George IV. top-
notch Scotch.—Advt.
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (JIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Just-departed Lascelles, of the Mallee,
was one of the most useful citizens Aus-
tralia Ims produced, lie had the pioneering
spirit of a Henty. Look back 80 years to
the Malice —that peculiar, almost unique
region of scrub in the corner of \ ictoria
and running into S. Aus. It was con-
demned just like the so-called South-West
Desert of the United States, which now sup-
ports over 20 million people, with cities of
which Denver is a sample. Lascelles, in
’7B, put his money and his long vision into
a big sheep-station in this Mallee. It was
poor goods, even for sheep ; but with a splen-
didly prophetic eye he saw it the centre of
a practically boundless wheatfield. The
pen flows glibly enough in a mere narration
of what he accomplished, but those who
have not seen that wli'.lom Devil's Land
cannot poss bly realise what a triumph he
was of originality, pluck and perseverance.
COL. KENNEDY, Engineer, Hobart.
(lone over Jordan. George McLean, ex-
banker, Parliamentarian, good sportsman
and canny auld Scot, of Dunedin (M.L.).
Away back in the ’fifties Geordie deserted
the Highlands and fell into the Oriental
Bank at Melbourne wi’ a keen nose for
figures and a big capacity for wurrk. Fif-
teen years later lie joined the Bank of N.Z.
as manager at Dunedin, subsequently going
into business as an accountant and financial
agent with his own sign up. The rest was
mostly a story of politics and money-making,
for George was a member of the old Vogel
and Atkins n Cabinets, one of the founders
of the Union Steamship Co. and a life-long
director, chairman of the Colonial Bank and
a Leg. Councillor since ’Bl. As one of the
Skinflint party in the House of Reps, when
the public works boom of that time had
burst, he belonged to a band of rigid econo-
mists who examined every tuppence with a
sour eye. There as mighty little frivolity
about this dour, white-whiskered old man,
bent by the weight of years and physical
infirmity: but he raced horses for over 40
years with a genuine liking for the turf,
lie was 82 when the end came last week.
His wife was a daughter of Matthew
Holmes, • a famous breeder of sheep in the
long ago, and their daughter is the wife or
the bustling Tom Wilford, barrister and
politician, of Wellington.
Frank Henty is going to give Fawkner
(Vic.) a chance to elect a good Australian
to the House of Reps. All Bulletin read-
ers know Henty; but all Bulletin readers
haven’t known as Heuty’s a lot of the good
Australian stuff he has written. He will
most likely have to play a lone hand; but it
will be a good hand, full of Effective Pro-
tection cards.
Early in the war one Muller was executed
at the'Tower of London. It appears that
this Muller was
in Australia a
few years ago
and travelled
around as an ex-
pert in forestry.
Quite a fuss was
made over him
in certain coun-
try districts.
Leading unsus-
picious 1 o cals
glorified him,
whilst his princi-
pal Slier m a n
friends thr u s t
their tongues into
their cheeks, and
more or less hon-
est Australian-
ised Teutons re-
marked with a
shake of the head
that they d'dn't
think Mr. Muller
was up to any
good.
E.W. FONALL,
English Secret ary
Japanese
Consulate-
General.
Chief Justice Murray, of R. Aus., who has
received the usual knighthood going with that
post, is one of fortune’s favorites. A son ot
rich squatter A. B. Murray (and conse-
quently a cousin of the stock-breeding Mur-
rays C he won a South Aus. scholarship
(abolished soon afterwards) which took him
to Cambridge—where he could have gone
without it. To-day he is one of the very few
Judges, anywhere, so rich that his salary
doesn’t matter. Socially, Murray’s habits
are the strongest possible contrast to those
of his restless versatile predecessor, Way.
His one interest outside the court is the
University, where he succeeded Way also as
Chancellor. His one dissipation is a really
brilliant game of billiards. Otherwise he
lives for his job. Physically, he is attractive
in face, figure and style ; yet he has never
been married. He is 54. (Still, May
married when he was 62.)
Georgina Temperley is Australia’s first
woman recruiting-sergeant, just appointed by
ti e Victorian Committee. She is a B.A. of
Sjdney Uni., and does either cap and gown
or evening dress credit. She gave up her
studies at the Kaiser’s first curse, and hurled
herself into voluntary recruiting work with
great success. Her first public address, out-
side Melbourne Town Hall, yielded a recruit,
and another man, anxious himself to join,
but unable to persuade his wife to let him go,
said he would bring her along to be con-
vinced by the oratrix. If Miss Temperley
makes good, her appointment will be the first
of many.
The story of a kindly deed. John
Bernaldo, returned soldier, sat in a military
uniform inside the Melbourne City lock-up,
mourning his rotten luck. Within an hour
he was driving down Collins-strcet in the
State motor-car as the guest of Premier
Peacock, who had rescued him from clink
on the strength of an old friendship for his
father. Bernaldo, who had come to town
to draw his pension and had no other
clothing than his campaign costume, had
been run in by two military cops for illegally
wearing the uniform. His hope of getting
hail depended on whether Peacock would
stand to him. A ’phone message was sent
to Alec of the Smile, who at once had
Bernaldo bailed out and sent down to his
office. Then, being about to motor to the
Creswick train, he took the soldier in the
car to the War Council’s office, had him
supplied with a suit of “civvies,” and gave
Macldnnon. Director of Recruiting, the
straight griffin that the military police had
been a trifle too fresh in rushing a Gallipoli
soldier into the jug instead of taking him
to the War Council’s office, ns they had
been asked to do in the first place.
The Speck lost its oldest doctor the other
day when Charles Turner died at \\ood-
bri'dge, aged 86. He lived at Richmond for
many years, and saw a large part ot the
population into the world and out of it.
One day a woman brought a girl to him and
said it was tongue-tied. "Take it away,
take it away!” said the old man. ‘No
woman ever was.” And tin's one wasn t
either.
R. 11. Edmunds, just dead, was one of
S.A.’s very oldest civil servants, having been
a Government surveyor as long ago as 1855.
In 1864-5 he was in command of the ill-
starred Escape Cliffs expedition in the
Northern Territory, before Darwin existed.
Finally lie settled down at "The Stockade,”
the labor prison near Adelaide, and was
Governor of it till he was compulsorily re-
tired at 70; and that was 13 years ago.
Other States‘remember him as having toured
round with I)r. Ramsay Smith and Magis-
trate .lames Gordon, to pick up hints for the
better management of the Lunacy Depart-
ment.
Jimmy Allen. Maoriland's Defence Min-
ister. lately decorated with the sponge-basket
or whatever is worn by a Commander of
the Rath, had been living in hope for a long
time. lie will probably be handed some-
thing more ornamental later on. Where-
upon Muoriland expects the pale cast of
thought that has shadowed the countenance
of James since the year 1 to evaporate in
a night. It is about the most solemn visage
on earth : and if Allen now omits to get
under the shower with the air of Nero order-
ing that 15 Christians be tossed to the lions,
he ought to be arrested for sedition and
behavior calculated to prejudice recruiting.
It is a good sign when Australian politi-
cians whom the people can reach pass the
“Imperial” knighthood and lesser baubles on
to their under-secretaries, whom the people
can’t reach. R. R. Garran. for instance, just
knighted, gets the decoration for making
himself useful to Hughes. He got into the
Commonwealth service through acting as
secretary to Barton, O’Connor and John
Downer, the drafting committee appointed
by the Federal Convention; and that job
came to him through his published studies
of actual and possible constitutions. When
the job was done he collaborated with John
Quick in “The Annotated Constitution of
the Australian Commonwealth”; and John
was knighted in the year the big thing was
published (1601). Quick was a working jour-
nalist before he became a disappointing and
spasmodic politician; Garran is the son <>l
another —Dr. Andrew Garran, once editor of
the S. M. Herald, afterwards the first presi-
dent of the first Industrial Disputes Court
in Australia.
With his right arm paralysed and four
"fragments of shrapnel still unextracted,
Sergeant A. L. Reed. V.C., D.C.M., is hope-
fully waiting in Caulfield (Vic.) Military
Hospital to rejoin the colors. “The doc.
tells me I will be all rght before we march
to Berlin,” he says cheerfully. By virtue
of his being a King’s
Sergeant, Reed has the
tremendous privilege
of keeping his hat- on
in the presence of
royalty. An unspoiled
Australian youngster
of 23, born at Heath-
cote, Reed has pro-
gressed by easy stages
through five French
hospitals from the
shell crater on the
Somme where, at 3
o’clock on a wet July
Morning, he and three
mates —all that were
left after a German
counter- attack —de-
manded the surrender
of a Hun officer and
three men. The pri-
vates gave in. but the
officer emptied his re-
volver at Reed before
being captured. The
King’s Sergeant took
him to the rear, where,
becoming pugnacious
again, he was killed.
That was. when Reed
won the V.C. The
D.C.M. was for raid-
ing work.
W. SHERIDAN,
Tas. M.L.A.
Died in Paraguay, with startling sudden-
ness, at 42, Dr. Birks, of an Adelaide family
which mixed business with fads and philan-
thropy. lie was taken as a boy to the New
Australia colony, but soon chucked agricul-
ture for dentistry, finished up his studies in
the United States, and, returning, became
one of the leading foreign residents in the
Paraguayan capital.
Insurance-expert Tom Bell is dead in Mel-
bourne. He Had' been manager for the Atlas
Co. from time immemorial —a comfortable
man in a comfortable job. Mostly he
attended to his business, but now and again
took a hand in Presbyterian church matters.
IMPRESSIONISTIC.
MR. GOLDBRICK (having acquired a master-
piece): “Is the position right?"
RAFAEL JONES : “Yes, hut I'd hang it the
other way up. I did when I was paint-
ing it.”
It is unofficially reported in Berlin that
Vice-Admiral von Scheer, who bolted from
the British at Jutland, has been made a
Fleet Admiral.
Nearly everybody is helping, but Mel-
bourne Ilnitarian-parson Frederick Sin-
claire's idea of war-wyrk deserves special
mention. Frederick is conducting a speakers’
class, designed "to help those who wish
to become peace propagandists.” Pupils
are asked to be earnest, and to make a small
weekly contribution towards the expenses of
learning how to shoot the baby-killers with
their mouths.
The silence of Frank Brennan, M.H.R.,
has recently become a matter for comment.
The explanation of the phenomenon is not
political, however, lint physical. Strenuous
efforts to mislead Australia into voting No
strained Brennan’s talking machinery, and
it is now laid up for repairs. M hatever
opinion may be held regarding . Brennan s
views, it is to his credit that he did not wait
to see how the cat was likely to leap, but,
rushed to the nearest platform and shouted
“No.” The indications are that Brennan
will be the only man in the Vic. section of
the Labor party who will be selected un-
opposed. He has again received the nomina-
tion for Batman.
W. T. Pyke (of King Cole’s Book Arcade,
Melbourne) writes: —
The Bulletin of 8/2/T7 wonders whether I wrote
“The Life of E. W. Cole” by “One Who Knows Him
Well.” ] have written or .compiled 20 or 30 books
issued by him or by London publishers, but my life
of the Book King will not be issued till the year
1922. Here, however, are a few remarks to go on with.
Mr. Cole landed here from South Africa in the
early 50’s of last century. He started in a very
small way as a secondhand bookseller at No. 8
Eastern (the old Paddy’s) Market in ’66, after-
wards removing to the corner of the Market and
Bourke street, next door to the present Eastern
Arcade, then the Haymarket Theatre. In ’73, just
after I joined him, he opened his first Book Arcade
near Russell-street; and in 83 the Bourke-stieet
section of the present Arcade. Prior to ’66 he spent
about two years in the Melbourne and Sydney Public
Libraries studying religions of the world, practically
giving up all his time to it and living on his very
small savings. This study resulted in the publica-
tion of a hook in two volumes, entitled “The Real
Place in History of Jesus and Paul,” an Essay in
Defence of Mental Freedom, and another pamphlet or
two. These heterodox books had but a small sale.
They were in advance of the time and aroused miic.i
hostile and unfair criticism both from press and
pulpit. They have been out of print for nearly 40
years, and have never been reprinted, though I think
that with some revision they would meet with
considerable favor in these more broad-minded times.
Mr. Cole all through his life has never followed the
“mass opinion” of the crowd. He has always done
his own thinking and has striven to help other
people to do theirs. Though now over 85, with the
assistance of two secretaries he is still compiling
books and publishing them. The most unbusiness-
like of business men, perhaps more like a missionary
than a man of business, he has been successful beyond
all his contemporaries in the book world of Aus-
tralia, and has a reputation extending far beyond
her boundaries.
BERNSTORFF’S JOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I've had my play in politics, and have enjoyed
myself. 1 have' no plans for the future.” — licrnstorff,
German Minister to the U.S.A., on being shown the
door.
lip has enjoyed himself. The play is done.
llomo to the land where sausage fades he- hies
To hear the distant echo of a gun —
A gun full charged with hope that conquers lies.
Tie has enjoyed himself while brave men bled
And Europe’s shambles with true blood grew red.
It was his faith that lies and shame must win.
No scheme too black, no treachery too vile
To aid the large world-treason and the sin
The Teuton planned behind his fat. full smile.
How should plain, naked faith and truth prevail
Against armed falsehood strong in shield and mail ?
He has enjoyed himself. Hut that is past.
The rapid pictures change upon the screen.
’Tvvixt true and false the die of doom is cast
And through the war-smoke victory is seen
Laurelled amid the wreck, with reeking sword
Outstretched above the cringing Teuton horde.
The play is done; but this is not the end.
Defeated, shamed before the watching lands,
A people set for hissing, no man’s friend,
A thing of scorn with foul blood on its hands,
The Teuton nation learns its lesson well —
A thing condemned to know its self-made Hell.
He has enjoyed himself. If joy were here
In trick and treason, let the memory stay
In the long night when loathing adds to fear
The sting that none may medicine away.
He has enjoyed himself as Murder’s aid —■
Small joy at last is in the play he played.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


CHAMPION
ST
1 Roll your ownCigareile
* from
Champion line Out
Rich & Full Flavoured
i c/cat
L '/we tto
\ nw/y
yetis tfuij
of-it;
ißollyour own Cigarette,
r from 5 i
GiampionFine Cut
in 2oz»Tins.
PIPE & CIGARETTE
TOBACCO


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR LIFT for non-flowing bores and where the water has receded.
Satisfactorily tested by the Water Conservation Department, Sydney. Adopted by the Government
for increasing supply at Pera Bore, Bourke. " [2
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
ADAMAX ROOFING IS SPARK-PROOF AND ECONOMICAL!
Unlike Galvanized Iron, Salt Air has no effect on it—therefore it will not rust or pinhole. Sulphuric
acid fumes do not damage it —therefore Adamax Roofing is more suitable than iron for Roofs on
Colliery, Mining or Smelting buildings.
ADAMAX ROOFING costs less to buy than Galvanized Iron and saves freight, which is a big
item to people living at a distance from Sydney. The FREE Book, “The Adamax Series,” gives facts
in full. Send for FREE Copy to-day to
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth & Adelaide.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hilt Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
AH enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1909.. £7,133 8 p.c. = £6,148 £985 £36,781
Dec., 1909.. 5,195 8 „ „ 6,300 35,676
Loss.
June, 1910.. 4,225 8 „„ 6,300 25,151
Profit.
Dec., 1910.. 12,716 8 „ „ 6,646 6,070 31,221
June, 1911.. 13,536 8 „ ~ 7,196 6,340 37,561
Premiums on new shares .. 49 37,610
Dec., 1911.. 14,393 10p.c.= 9,371 5,022 42,632
June, 1912.. 14,237 10 „ „ 9,683 4,554 47,186
{Assets written up. Reserves trans-
ferred to capita], £82,687.
28,611 10 p.c. = 11,989 16,622 63,808
Reserves transferred to capital, £ 63,000 808
June, 1913.. 12,885 7 p.c. = 12,848 37 845
Dec., 1913.. 13,652 7 „ „ 13,876 621
Dec., 1914.. 28,229 6$ „ „ 26,596 1,633 2,254
, —Shares.—
“A” “B” Total.
Dec., 1915.. 31,164 64%6%29,912 1,252 3,506
Dec., 1916.. 32,178 64,, 6 ~32,320 3,364
“Your directors recommend the declaration
of the above dividend, but that payment be
deferred.” They explain why: (1) profits
have been totally absorbed by capital expen-
diture, principally on the new works at
Oyster Cove; (2) the directors have not
deemed it expedient in view of “the general
financial difficulties” to call up the balance
on the “B” shares nor float further loans;
■and (3) war delays have rendered the capi-
tal invested at Oyster Cove unproductive
so far. These works at Oyster Cove were
begun in 1912. What has been spent upon
them since can’t be told. But at June,
1913, the co.’s land, buildings, plant, ser-
vices, etc., were valued at £381,548, where-
as the items now total £670,493. In 1013
the co. issued 147,923 new “B” shares to
partly finance the additions. Thus far 17s. 6d.
has been paid on 147,675; the other 248
have apparently fallen out. Also £lOO,OOO
■of debentures have been sold; and £55,855
has. been raised by temporary loans. Other
debts (including customers’ deposits)
amount to £21,990. Work at Oyster Cove
is still in progress; and the co.’s assets
apart from plant, etc., . are: Book debts,
£15,984; stock, £17,164. The finances, it
will be seen, are not easy; and it isn’t un-
reasonable to ask shareholders to help.
There has been a four years’ muddle in
the N. S. Wales gas business. First there
was the new Gas Act, which applies to this
co. specifically. The idea was to limit
dividends to 10 p.c. on old and 7 p.c. on
new ordinary capital and 5 p.c. on new pre-
ference. At the same time the cos. were
permitted to revalue their assets and issue
bonus shares until the total capital was
equal to the total value of the assets. 'And
that’s where Parliament fell into the soup
right up-to its neck. Practically, on account
of the revaluation, it was all new capital.
Yet on old works, etc., capitalised at pre-
sent values Parliament permitted a divi-
dend of 10 p.c.! And if a co. couldn’t pay
10 p.c. it could raise the price of gas above
the standard (3s. 6d.) ; an extra 4d. was
allowed for every 1 p.c. by which the divi-
dend fell short of 10. Of course the dividend
fell short. It couldn’t possibly do anything
else; for values of properties, etc., are
fixed by the return they give; and the
values of these properties were ’no doubt
arrived at on a 6 p.c. basis or thereabouts.
Later on the War Precautions Act inter-
posed. But now, the price of coal having
been put up 3s. per ton, Judge Edmunds
has recommended that the price of gas be
also put up. This and the Australian (Syd-
ney) Gas Light Co. are to be allowed to
charge above present rates from March
to December of this year and thereafter 3d.;
the Manly Co. 4d. till the end of the year
and thereafter 3Jd.
What profit a gas co. shows depends very
largely upon the amount it first writes off
against depreciation. This exhibits what
has been done by this co.:—
1914. 1915. 1916.
Gross receipts ..£132,571 £149,461 £159,166
Total outgoings . . 92,453 93,714 104,496
Gross profit.. £40,118 £55,747 £54,670
Less Interest .. 356 6,995 7,355
Depreciation . . 11,533 17,588 15,137
Net profit ... £28,229 £31,164 £32,178
A greater profit is thus shown for last year
than for 1915 only by writing off less for
depreciation. The outgoings increased more
rapidly than receipts; though this was no
doubt partly due to the stoppage through
the coal strike. If £15,137 is a fair thing
to write off for depreciation, then the divi-
dend was not earned last year. But there
is a fine chance for a rise in the value of
these shares (“A’s” especially), seeing that,
when the world leaves off sizzling, the co.
will be entitled to go on taking advantage
of growth of population, improvements in
manufacture, etc., until the dividend reaches
10 p.c.; and it may pay even more than that
if it can do it and also sell gas for less than
3s. 6d.
* * * *
The New Zealand Insurance Co. :—■
AVritten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends'. Off. serves, serves.
Nov. £/ £ £> £i
1905.’. 69,375 15 p.c. = 30,000 39,375 440,986
Profit on purchase of N.Z. Accident 17,696 458,682
Loss.
f 167,435 10 p.c. = 25,000 266,247
1906 J Premiums on new share issue.. 25,485 291,732
I Unearned premiums reserve .. 30,000 321,732
( Profit on sale of securities .. 15,054 336,786
Profit.
1907.. 91,711 10 p.c. = 30,000 61,711 398,497
1908.. 78,619 10 „ „ 30,000 3,231 45,388 443,885
1909.. 41,134 10 ~ ~ 30,000 11,134 455,019
1910.. 66,745 12J „ ~ 37,500 157 29,088 484,107
1911.. 107,417 124,,.,, 37,500 12,654 67,263 541,370
1912.. 109,986 15 ~ ~ 45,000 8,932 ’ 66,064 597,424
Transferred to capital, £16',000 .. 447,424
1913.. 117,870 10 p.c. = 45,000 2,773 70,097 517,521
1914.. 109,638 10 ~ „ 45,000 64,638 582,059
1915.. 150,683 10 ~ ~ 46,000 34,673 71,110 653,169
1916.. 186,379 11$ „ „ 52,500 171 133,708 786,877
But that last line doesn’t say the last word
on the subject. In the year to the end of
November, 1915, the net premiums totalled
£740,646; in the past year, £924,790. Thus
all the old business was renewed, or new
business was got to take the place of it as
it expired, and additional risks were taken
to the extent of £184,144. Much of this
was marine business; and the marine risk,
as a rule, hasn’t a long life. Nevertheless
it,is certain that a portion of this £184,144
of new premium income was unearned at
the end of the year; in other words, the
risks were still current. Twelve months
ago the management reckoned that £300,000
should cover all of its unexpired risks; it
has now reckoned a further £70,000 neces-
sary. If that is a fair estimate, then the
true profit for the year was £116,379 instead
of £186,379. In a table such as the fore-
going, however, it is only feasible to show
as profit the excess of actual income (pre-
miums and interest) over actual outgoings
(claims and exes.). The chances are that,
owing to the German’s recent submarine
campaign, some heavy losses will have to be
paid in the current year in respect of policies
for which the premiums are included with
the past year’s revenue. In that case, the
current year’s profit will suffer.
The next table, going back 21 years, shows
what remarkable progress this co. has made
in the period :—•
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Loss Expense
£ £ £ Rate. Rate.
1895. .267,917 172,137 79,203 64.2p.c. 29.6p.c.
1900.-342,336 195,864 95,651 57.2 „ 27.9 „
1905. .425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 „ 26.2 „
1906. .565,149 { f 285 695 j 129 > 361 I'D.9 „ 22.9 „
1910. .605,509 391,321 172,593' 64.5 „ 28.5 „
1912. .676,097 408,521 190,314 60.4 „ 28.1„
1913. .702.968 431,709 197,252 61.4 „ 28.0„
1914. .699,310 435,397 202,125 62.3 „ 28.9 „
1915. .740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 „ 28.2 „
1916. .924,790 548,582 245,930 59.3 „ 26.6 „
*General. fSan Francisco disaster.
Certainly the premium income last year was
abnormal on account of high rates for war
risks; and up to November 30, thanks to
Jellicoe, the average loss rate was under the
60 p.c., which this co. regards as very
satisfactory. Even if it had been a couple
of points above normal the co. would have
done all right, because it costs no more to
collect the high war premium than the nor-
mal peace premium. Hence the exes., spread
over the abnormal premium income, are
about 2 p.c. less than the old average.
But if the co. is able to show, tentatively,
a very large profit, it has resisted the temp-
tation to pay it away. The shareholders get
only an extra Is. per £3 share, which means
£7500. That allows the co. to put by a
magnificent £133,708 to provide for future
losses. How much an insurance co. ought
to have in hand against its risks is only a
matter of opinion. Plainly, however,' the
larger its risks the more assets it should
have in case of a run of bad luck. This
means that as business grows the funds ought
to grow too, either through the issue of fresh
capital or by the hoarding of profits. This
co.’s risks have grown rapidly—so rapidly,
in fact, that, though the lay-by has been so
large, as a rule, the proportion of funds to
premiums (which are the only available
measure of risks) has not grown:—
Funds in Proportion
Premiums. Funds. to Premiums.
1895 .. £267,917 £449,551 168 p.c.
1900 .. 342,036 481,485 141 „
1905 .. 425,991 640,916 150 „
1910 .. 605,509' 784,107 129 „
1912 .. 676,097 897,424 132 „
1913 .. 702,968 967,521 137 „
1914 .. 699,310 1,032,059 148 „
1915 .. 740,646 1,103,169 149 „
1916 .. 924,790 1,236,877 134 „
But here it is to be noted again that the
past year’s premiums were abnormal; hence
the 134 p.c. for the one year deserves less
consideration than the previous steady im-
provement from 129 p.c. in 1910 to 149 p.c.
in 1915. Even 149 p.c. was not too high;
which is another way of saying that, large
as the amounts put to reserve have been,
they were no more than the rapid growth of
risks called for. The average of the best
English offices lies somewhere between 150
and 160 p.c.
It is interesting to compare the assets
now and at November, 1913: —-
1913. 1916.
British Government stock .. £43,560 £153,800
M.L. public securities .. . . 164,160 236,639
Australian „ . . . . 73,215 71,787
African „ .. . . 24,381 8,450
U.S.A. bonds 91,627 84,788
S. American bonds . . . . 41,040 38,652
Jap. and other bonds . . .. 38,402 63,856
Mortgages 195,872 208,402
Freehold properties .. .. 332,849 406,179
Cash and agency balances, etc. .. 203,521 321,834
Total .. £1,208,627 £1,594,387
The appropriation for unadjusted losses and
“sundry creditors and unearned premiums”
have grown from £214,856 to £327,509.
Allowing for this increase in liabilities and
contingencies there has been an addition of
£273,000 to the funds in three years; and
most _of it has been put into gilt-edged
securities carrying what a few years ago
would have been thought an impossibly high
rate of interest. Further, though the market
value of most of the old holdings has shrunk
(in some cases it has been written down out
of profits), the shrinkage is hardly likely
to affect the co., because on account of its
solid cash holding only something colossal
in disasters would compel it to realise in the
present adverse market. Last year interest
and rents gave the co. £56,102; and the
prospects for large earnings from that source
are v~ry good.
* * * *
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney
and Melbourne, who started with a deficit of
£46,235, representing goodwill (£45,000)
and preliminary expenses :
Towards
Reduction
„„„„ Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
Dec., 1909. . £6,433 10 p.c. = £4OOO £2433 £37,816
June, 1910.. 6,038 10 ~ „ 4500 1538 30,278
Dec., 1910.. 8,076 10 ~ ~ 4500 3576 32,702
June, 1911.. 7,669 10 ~ „ 4500 3169 29,533
Dec., 1911.. 5,520 10 ~ „ 4500 1020 28,513
June, 1912.. 7,159 10 „ „ 4600 2559 25,954
Dec., 1912.. 9,308 10 „ „ 4700 4608 21,346
June, 1913.. 9,027 10’ ~ „ 4850 4177 17,169
Dec., 1913.. 9,412 10 ~ „ 5000 4412 12,757
June, 1914.. 10,529 10 ~ „ 5000 5529 7,228
Dec., 1914.. 11,453 10 „ „ 5000 6453 775
To Re- Re-
T ,„, _ serves, serves.
June, 1915.. 8,680 10 ~ ~ 5208 3472 2 697
Dec., 1915.. 8,454 10 ~ „ 5312 3142 5’839
June, 1916.. 9,524 10 „ „ 5312 4212 10 051
Dec., 1916.. 10,140 10 „ „ 5312 4828 14,879
‘lf you want to trade, trade in something
the people eat,” used to be a favorite bit of
advice . with old bankers—perhaps still is.
Their idea was that the people ate whether
times were good or bad, whereas they didn’t
buy much clothes or diamonds or furniture
(motor-cars hadn’t been invented then)
when deep gloom was over the land. But if
on the same principle the old banker had a
few years ago advised his clients to invest
in shares in food-vending cos., he would have
made some enemies for himself by this time.
Apart from Sargents, Ltd., not one co.
floated in Australia during the past few
years to retail food has been a great
success; and most of them have been horri-
bly otherwise—Harts, the A.8.C., and
Paris House in Sydney, for example. Dif-
ference in management explains difference
in results. The Sargents who made the
business big for themselves have (with per-
haps one exception—and he is at the war)
remained to make it bigger for the co.
But the best chef going couldn’t, if he
were only a chef, make a certain financial
success of an eatery; financial success there
or in a pub—residential pub, particularly—
is a matter of watching costs and checking
waste. No doubt that is where Herbert
Priestley came in: at first he was “financial
manage!’” ; latterly his firm has been “super-
vising accountants.” Between them all such
an excellent profit has been saved from what
others have wasted tha‘, though the co.
started with £45,000 of "water” in a capi-
tal of £BO,OOO, there are now tangible assets
to represent the whole of the capital and a
bit over; and throughout the co.’s 10 years
of. life a 10 p.c. dividend has been main-
tained. Certainly this paper wouldn’t like
to bet anything over a million that the co.’s
assets would realise £14,879 in excess of the
capital if they had to be sold; for £50,785
is : in furniture, plant and utensils; and what
that lot would fetch is problematical. Still,
the position has gradually become more solid.
Look at the change in five years :
1911. 1916.
Capital .. .. £90,000 £111,082
All liabilities .. 14,436 57,702
Freeholds .. .. 20,120 79,000
Leaseholds . . . . 18,275 18,300
Furniture, etc. . . 30,935 55,260
Stock, cash, etc. .. 10,094 43,416
Capital and liabilities are £64,348 more than
they were five years ago; but freeholds and
stock, cash, etc., are £03,202 more. That
shows that a very solid part of the surplus
of earnings over dividends is going into
good, saleable assets.
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.:—
r r, Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves
1903.. £35,935 5 p.c. = £27,500 £ll,OOO £94,358
1904.. 65,512 7i„ „ 41,254) 22,005 96 613
1905.. 102,422 10 „ „ 55,000 50,030 94,005
1906.. 136,364 10 „ ~ 55,000 41,904 133,465
1907.. 117,257 10 „ „ 55,000 116,480 79,24*
1908.. 39,842 10 „ „ 55,000 31,293 32 791
(All Shares.)
1909.. 178,331 10 p.c. = 96,250 24,949 89,923
1910.. 235,495 15 „ „ 144,375 53,518 127,525
1911.. 207,959 15 „ ~144,375 48,940 142 169
1912.. 340,938 30 „ „ 288,750 63,870 130,487
1913.. 315,442 20 „ „ 192,500 66,995 186,434
1914.. 158,875 10 „ „ 96,250 16,147 232,912
1915.. 282,551 20 „ ~192,500 28,000 294,963
1916.. 383,904 30 „ „ 315,000 39,000 324,867
But these figures for the past year, so fat
as profit is concerned, are even more of a
guess than usual. In the first place the co.
puts aside £368,538 to pay income tax in
England and Australia, “including reserve
for Excess Profits Duty and Federal income
tax”; and that is exclusive of the £39,000
shown as written off, but really transferred
to a contingency fund. Ordinary wear and
tear of plant, as well as an allowance for
the decay of the mine, is provided for other-
wise. The practice followed for some years
past has been to pay out of profits all the
cost of additional plant, etc., as a set-off
against the depreciation of the mine and
works; and that means £33,6u6 for the
year. Even if the co. makes only the
£383,904 at present claimed as profit it is a
splendid performance; for the mine at
Broken Hill was drawn upon last year to
the extent of only 181,992 tons. Certainly
more or less of the profit was made out of (1)
7000 tons of B. TI. Junction ore purchased
and sent to the mill; (2) the custom treat-
ment of ore at the Cockle Creek smelting
works; and (3) the comparatively new
superphosphate works. In the mine there
are 1,858,200 tons of ore proved, with a
fine lode underfoot at the 1300 ft. level. In
addition the co. has nearly three-quarters of
a million in liquid and semi-liquid assets
in excess of liabilities; with 199,569 tons of
slimes, a cugtom-smelting connection, and the
most complete ore-dressing (concentrating)
plant in Australia and perhaps the world;
a superphosphate plant that isn’t as good;
a spelter-making plant at Seaton Carew
(Eng.), bought during the past year from
the Central Zinc Co.; and a collection of
brains of which any co. in the world ought
to be proud. The share capital is now in
1,200,000 shares, half preference and half
ordinary.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Gross Divi- Gross Divi-
Profits. dends. Profits, dends.
£ £ £ £
May, ’O7 331,125 240,000 Nov., ’ll 239,731 96,000
Nov., ’O7 153.599 288,000 May, ’l2 203,716 120,000
May, ’OB 30,389 72,000 Nov., ’l2 177,594 144,000
Nov.,’oB 34,430 Nil May, ’l3 132,037 120,000
Loss. Nov., ’l3 162,768 96,000
May, ’O9 59,029 Nil May, ’l4 166,292 113,728
Profits. Nov., ’l4 144,847 59,050
N0v.,’09 55,996 Nil May, ’l5 223,312 118,101
May, ’lO 46,047 48,000 Nov., ’l5 273,380 118,101
Nov.,’lo 124,938 48,000 May, ’l6 271,524 118,101
May, ’ll 155,967 48,000 Nov., ’l6 171,599 118,101
But on present appearances the current
half-year will be short of a quarterly divi-
dend, the directors having decided that
they want the money too badly to pay
the usual in March. As explained last
week, the iron and steel works have been
running away with cash. During the
half-year the co. has spent £325,969 on con-
struction, of which £318,732 has .been
poured into the steel works. At present
these works stand in the books at £2,086,400
;plus £47,800 for lands and buildings; and
to that must be added some of the cost of
the Iron Knob tramway, etc., though that
was written down to pretty well nothing
during the time the Knob was used
only as a flux quarry to feed the lead fur-
naces at Pirie. And the outlay hasn’t
stopped yet. Notwithstanding heart-break-
ing delays through strikes in the works and
at the coal mines, and though estimates of
costs have been far exceeded, the directors
are making large additions to the plant. • A
second blast furnace is being built, along
with 66 more coke ovens; also more open-
hearth furnaces and rolling mills. The
war has not only interfered with the deliv-
ery of plant, and added to the cost, but
things haven’t gone well with the furnace
linings :
AVe have to contend with a difficulty of obtaining
suitable refractor}' material for lining the furnaces.
This material used to come from Europe, but is not
now obtainable. Consequently new, untried material
had _to be used, causing frequent stoppages for
repairs. Fortunately it appears that this difficulty
is gradually being overcome by the manufacture of
this material locally.
Really we ought to knock off our Hymn of
Hate now and again to pass a vote of thanks


The British Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd.
T ramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
dfgh
ffimmwt
Manchester
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works; TraHord Park, ManchesKfi England.
The damage to electric-mine equipment by light-
ning, and the consequent repair expenses, delay of
operations, etc., make the question of lightning
protection a matter of serious consideration. Since
tlie commencement of electric-mine service the
General Electric Company have studied the problem
of protecting mine equipments, with the result that
actual experience proves that G.E. Lightning
Arresters for direct current and alternating current
circuits, do protect. Write us for full particulars,
quotations, etc. Australian General Electric
Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; corner Queen and
Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, 'and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt,
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd.— a saving of Zs. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. C°-> Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.— Advt. [2
* * » •
There is absolutely no question about the dura-
bility and economy of Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.
Wood, if kept wet, is practically everlasting. and
there is no inner exposed metal to rust or corrode.
It works out much cheaper, too, than any other
class of pipe, so far as first cost, labor for laying
and freight charges are concerned. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited (H. 0.), 57 York-street, Sydney. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. Factories: Lane
Cove, N.S.W., Footscray, Vic., and Port Adelaide,
S.A.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts.. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
Tin, plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writi
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
W “* hts * Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Ci ushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
44 o Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
m 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250.000
Subscribed Capital 194.235
Paid-up Capital .. 95.767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
VV. K. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited,
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 ©
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 ©
HEAD OPFICE: BRISBANE, 83 ’ 611 0 *
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Geiati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
to the Kaiser. He has made us do things
for ourselves that we would otherwise most
certainly have gone on neglecting.
The uncompleted works are costing a heap
more money; and on Nov. 30 the co. was
already pretty heavily involved. It owed
£286,706 to its bankers; and counting in
timber, fluxes and stores as liquid assets, its
surplus of such assets over liabilities was
reduced to £326,323. Then permission was
got from the Commonwealth Government to
raise another £400,000 by a debenture
issue; and the Commonwealth Bank again
came to the rescue. The issue was over-
subscribed ; and the co. now owes altogether
on debentures £040.000. It has issued
£1.000.000; but £60,000 worth have been re-
deemed. For the rest the co. has sold
221,006 shares of Bs. (£88,402) at a pre-
mium of 325. (£353,610) ; and the balance
of the two million-odd thus far spent has
been got from accumulated profits, including
reserve funds. How it is all going to pan
out the directors don’t know. Much de-
pends upon whether the people of this coun-
try realise that piffling little strikes are
deadly things and that a lot of hard work
must be done. Last half-year “sales and
products on hand” in the iron and steel sec-
tion are credited with £263,710, while
wages, salaries and exes, alone ran into
£305,721; and that of course doesn’t include
anything spent on construction, or any
allowance for depreciation, or any pro-
portion of general management exes., or any
debenture interest, let alone interest on
shareholders’ capital. And elsewhere in
the co.’s service things are nearly as bad.
At the Broken Hill mine, certainly, there
was such a run of good luck that the general
manager almost chortles. “With the excep-
tion of one or two short suspensions of
work, aggregating about one week and due
to the union protests against the Referen-
dum and Conscription, work was continu-
ous.” Matters need thinking over when a
general manager can be joyous that a great
mine like the B. 11. Prop, was only shut
down for a day now and then while the
workmen “protested” against something or
other with which the co. had as much to do
as it has with the color of the Lord Mayor’s
ties.
S\V ) IQUIN AN ° Moama Railway
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
•Tune, 1909. . £1321 5 p.c. = £2500 £51,051
Dec., 1909.. 5431 5 „ ~ 2500 53 982
June, 1910.. 1797 5 „ „ 2500 53,’279
Dec., 1910.. 6808 5 „ „ 2500 57,587
June, 1911.. 2049 5„ „ 2500 57Y36
£25,000 of reserves transferred to capital 32,136
Dec., 1911.. 7676 5 p.c. = 3125 36,687
June, 1912.. 2385 5 „ „ 3125 35,947
Dee., 1912.. 5066 5 „ „ 3125 37,888
• June, 1913.. 2450 5 „ 3125 37,213
Dec., 1913.. 9101 7 „ „ 4375 41,939
June, 1914.. 3006 5 „„ 3125 41,820
Dec., 1914.. 7354 5 „ „ 3125 46,049
June, 1915.. 4587 5 „„ 3125 47 511
Dec., 1915.. 4312 5 „ „ 3125 48,698
June, 1916.. 1094 5 ~ „ 3125 46,667
Dec., 1916.. 4025 5 „„ 3125 47,567
A dull old concern operating in a dull old
district. This paper’s records of the co. go
back 30 years. The receipts for the second
half of 1886 were £12,174. Ten years ago
for the corresponding period they were
£11,620; for the past half-year £9205. So
things are not improving in that district,
which is a bit too far out to be agricul-
tural, but is for the most part verv suit-
able for small grazing settlers. Yet the pop-
ulation doesn’t improve. At the ’9l census
Deniliquin municipality held 2273 people;
in 1911—20 years later—there were only
221 more; and since then, it is reported, that
increase has been lost. It is very little use
talking about putting men on the land until
we have done something to make life on the
land more attractive. At present, to tell
the plain truth, it is just about the most
heart-breaking job in the country; and the
vast majority of the men and women who
So on the land, or who are born there and
don’t escape, live under conditions which the
suburban horse-driver would not put up with
at double the money. The truth which this
country will have to face is that the primary
producer is. getting a miserable existence
because, while the prices of the things he
has to sell are limited by foreign competi-
tion in foreign markets, the cost of the
things he has to buy in the home market is
not limited, and is crushing him. He has to
support the whole of the parasites of the
country; and, top and bottom, they are a
fearsome lot. The Labor party, which
ought to have cleared these parasites out
and given the worker the product of his toil,
has merely hatched more parasites—and
they are not all in their shirt-sleeves, either.
So this 40-year-old co.’s prospects are not
bright. Fortunately it long ago realised the
facts, and if its profits are poor it doesn’t
blush to pay a poor dividend. Bit by bit it
has thus substantially improved its position;
1906. 1916.
Liquid assets .. £16,247 £13,225
Liabilities .. .. 30,753 206
Excess liabilities ..£14,506
Surplus assets .. £13,019
Possibly some of this £27,525 isn’t true pro-
fit ; maybe part of it is a set-off against
depreciation which hasn’t been covered by
renewals or repairs. But, generally, renewals
and repairs seem to have been w'ell looked
after; and the co. is therefore probably not
far short of £27,525 really better off than it
was 10 years ago. Its share capital is
£125,000 in £5 shares fully paid.
* * * *
. N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.
(Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Dec.. Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1909 ..£11,085 6 p.c. =£5,504 £5,581 £47,625
1910 .. 24,355 12 „ „ 11,008 13,347 60,972
1911 .. 25,594 11 ~ „ 12,842 12,752 73,724
Transferred to Capital, £55,038 18,686
1912 .. 39,417 llip.c.= 16,328 23,089 41,775
1913 .. 31,727 lli„ ~ 17,062 14,665 56,440
Transferred to Capital, £18,346 38,094
1914 .. 28,760 114p.c.= 17,796 10,964 49,058
1915 .. 16,478 8J„ „ 13,851 2,627 51,685
1916 .. 13,732 8 „ „ 13,209 523 52,208
This co. balances now only once a year; and
the table has been recast so as to allow of
a comparison between the past term and its
older brothers. Perhaps the shareholders
would be happier without it; for the last
couple of years have been full of trouble.
The co. has been caught between drought
and war as the upper and the price-fixers
as the nether millstone; and profits have
been ground small. The Government has
been fixing the minimum price for labor (and
mostly giving it a bit more every time it
asked), and the maximum price for various
foods (and generally cutting a bit off when
the matter has come forward). Hence, no
doubt, while this co.’s exes, have been
climbing its revenue has been shrinking,
though there are no available figures to
quote in support. Further, owing to the
drought of a couple of years ago, the cold-
storage department, into which the. co. had
just put a lot of money, has had compara-
tively little to do. However, some at least
of the hands that have been giving the co.
its nasty knocks won’t always have a punch.
We shall simply have to increase our pro-
duction from the land presently; and this
co. is likely to gain in consequence.
Meantime, though the past year shows a
comparatively poor profit, something sub-
stantial seems to have been written off
against depreciation. This, at any rate,
shows how the cash position has improved:
Dec.,’lo. Dec.,’l4. Dec.,’ls. Dec.,’l6.
Liquid assets (in-
cluding stock) £64,881 £78,970 £74,304 £79,154
Liabilities . . 16,410 60,325 55,579 49,260
Surplus ..£48,471 £18,645 £18,725 £29,894
During 1915 the co. saved up nothing
towards repairs and renewals, etc.; in the
past year, £11,109. That’s better. The
co.’s other assets, apart from the £79,154
worth above-mentioned, are “freeholds, lease-
holds, plant, property, etc.”; and though
there may have been some small sales of
these during the year, and the proceeds con-
verted into liquid assets, it isn’t likely. It
seems much more probable that, though
visible profits were less last year than in
1915, things improved solidly during the
period.
* * * *
The long-drawn-out litigation between
Beard Watson’s, Ltd., and the Dixson Trust
seems to be over at last, and Beard Watson’s
win. The Privy Council said the last word
last week. The Dixson Trust was the land-
lord, engaged in effecting structural altera-
tions. Part of the building collapsed, and
Beard Watson’s, the tenants, suffered loss
of stock and profits. The Trust will have
to pay the co. probably about £40,000; and
on ’Change shares promptly recovered to
par on the strength of it.
* * # #
Last half-year (to December 31) Broken
Hill South increased its carry-forward from
£65,698 to £170,991, after paying £120,000
in d'ivs., appropriating £20,000 for income
tax, etc., and writing off £16,511 against
depreciation. That makes the net profit
£225,293. But the profit depends to some
extent upon the value put upon metals
unrealised, concentrates on hand and “leady
concentrates, suspense account.” The crude
ore treated during the half-year was 157,460
tons, aud without allowing for “probable”
ore there are 3,500,000 tons in reserve. There
are also 458,000 tons of slimes and just over
half a million of liquid assets; and 200,000
shares to cut it all up amongst.
* * * *
The troubles over the mostly-Melbourne-
owned Bodangora mine (N.S.W.) are those
of high costs and low tonnages. It took £2
to win £3 and pay one 6d. div. in a six-
months’ campaign. As it needed 4619 tons
to achieve such a result, and as there are
only 8758 tons in sight of a value of over
£2 per ton, no one can count on much profit
—unless something turns up in Mitchell’s
reef. This manager Nicholl is finding more
promising than are the extensions of the
three bottom levels north and south in the
Bodangora. Bob Turner advises that work
on the mine has been satisfactory; and he
isn’t a bad tipster.
More from the Dunedin man about the
Australian-bought Rimu dredging leases:—
In reply to F. J. Daniels (B. l/2/’l7), my remarks
(B. 25/l/’l7) referred to Rimu generally and not to
No. 1 in particular. I have no knowledge of the
boundaries of the different areas called 1, 2 and 3,
and I am unenlightened by the information that No.
1 adjoins No. 3. Mr. Daniels tries to make it appear
that I inferred there were dry shafts in No. 1 Rimu.
I stated there was a dry shaft about 65 feet deep
over one mile down the valley, and in the same
locality there are dozens of shafts from which the
lead was extensively driven on.
In sinking the shaft I referred to, water was
troublesome for the first 20 feet, and after that
there was natural drainage to the bottom. One
of the men concerned in sinking the shaft accom-
panied us, and the above statement was made by
him when we drew attention to the fact of the shaft
being dr3'. I never heard of pumps being used by
the miners working from these shafts. I take it
that No. 1 Rimu is further down the valley, and
consequently, as the fall of the ground approaches
the sea, the water finds its natural level; hence it is
quite likely there is no dry shaft in No. 1, and lpy
statement re dredging stones and water stands good.
Stones that can be handled with a two-man windlass
are awkward dhstomers in dredging ground if they
are plentiful. The probabilities are that Mr. Daniels
used a heavy drill in sinking his pipes; hence his
only having to shoot twice. Pipes were put down
in several places in Dunedin to a depth of several
hundred feet, part of the distance through solid
rock, and no shots were fired.
Quite a lot of dredging was done in Otago and
Southland apart from scoured river beds, and the
dredge that is now being erected on Rimu No. 1
was one of our boom-day efforts and worked for
many years on Earnscleugh Flat. Of course there
will be improvements, but the gearing, buckets,
tumblers, winches, ladders etc., are still the old
Sandy Point’s.
My remarks were not intended as described by
Mr. Daniels, and would not have been made had it
not been for the boom estimates of a return of
£4500 to £5OOO per month, which, I reiterate, is
quite ridiculous. I maintain that for a one-dredge
concern the company is overloaded and over-
capitalised.
* * » *
Molybdenite ore is fairly well distributed
through the New England district of N. S.
Wales; yet Yates’s mine at Ivingsgate pro-
duced 15 tons out of the total of 18 tons for
the whole district. The value of 18 tons
is estimated at £7375, or, say, £409 per ton.
The ore occurs in pipes at Ivingsgate, but
true veins exist in the Nambucca district, on
the North Coast, and some remarkably fine
specimens have come from there. The out-
put from all N. S. Wales was 53 tons last
year. Queensland, though it has one or two
good molybdenite shows, produced only 84
tons valued at £3613 for the last quarter.
While the output remains so small and the
market for large quantities so uncertain, it
seems absurd to launch cos. with a heavy
capital. Whipstick (N.S.W.) has its own
separating plant; and there are also two
batteries in N. Queensland turning out con-
centrates in small quantities.
Bananr.land’s Public Works Commission
has reported adversely on the proposal to
construct 85 miles of line from Oona to
Mount Oxide. When the Imperial Govern-
ment guaranteed a little while back to pur-
chase from Queensland 48,000 tons of copper
within two # years, the Ryan Government
opened up negotiations with the Mount
Elliott Co. (which now owns Oxide) for
the supply of 5000 tons per annum in the
event of the line being built. A Bill was
introduced in the Assembly, but later the
proposed railway was referred to the Com-
mission ; and the Commission considered
there were not sufficient ore reserves to jus-
tify the outlay. Smallness of prospective
revenue from pastoral sources, and a doubt
as to how the line could be built in 12
months, owing to scarcity of railroad sup-
plies, were other reasons for turning the
proposition down.
Queensland geologists estimate that the
Bowen coalfield contains 22 million tons of
coal on its one square' mile. The Bowen
field is the one example which can be quoted
bv the Government to support the proposi-
tion that State action in prospecting is
ahead of Private Enterprise. Government
drillers opened up and successfully pros-
pected the Bowen field when Private Enter-
prise had given it up as a bad job.
* * *• *
Lode Hill has put £l5OO into the war
loan and £5OO into a lease next door, so
that it does its duty to both Empire and
Cooktown. The cash came from the co.’s
stocking, as only £264 was netted from last
half-year’s operations, owing to the smash-
up of plant by the big storm in October.
The usual cheerful wheeze is heard about a
better production of tin oxide for the current
term ; but as Paul Northey would say: “Yer
can only b’lieve you’ve got it out of Lode
Hill when the cash is in the bank.”
Mount Lyell’s general manager, Robert
Sticht, lights out for the U.S.A. per first
’Frisco boat. From that fact draw the
deductions: (1) That the Lyell Board has
now got all the strings to be gathered in
over the Read-Rosebery deal in hand; (2)
that the site in the King River gorge for the
big zinc-works power-scheme, is acceptable ;
(3) that the moment has arrived for pro-
ducing the man to handle the electrolytic
zinc problem; and (4) that inasmuch as
Robert Sticht has a partiality for Anaconda-
trained specialists, it’s a monte that he won’t
be long in making for Butte to get addi-
tional helpers once he is inside the Golden
Gate. Surveyor Clark estimates that the
King River scheme will provide from 30,000
to 40,000 h.p. for the zinc works ; and with
an easy bottle-neck gorge to dam the cost
ought, comparatively speaking, to be a baga-
telle. But Bowes Kelly still talks about
roping in additional horse-power from the
co.’s own Lake Margaret scheme, and what
does that mean ? As sulphur saving by
electrolysis hasn’t worked out according to
plan, is a start to be made on the Read-
Rosebery zincs with that immediately-avail-
of energy? A final question that
B. Kelly might answer when next in Zeehan
is where on earth is North Lyell stope 40,
which rumor has said is sending out such
superlative bornite? Is it the surprise-
packet found on the Lyell Blocks boundary?
If so, can the fall in Blocks’ scrip be taken
to mean that Lyell luck still holds good, and
that the rich patch looks as if it will not go
over the North boundary?
* * » *
“Laracam”: Isn’t there any Act under
which proceedings can be taken against the
man who inserts ads. with no name or
address attached similar to the one appear-
ing a few ( weeks ago in the S. M. Herald :
‘'Wanted 300 men for Lightning Ridge opal
mines”? The Ridge is far from prosperous
at present; of something like 150 gougers
not one-third are making even fair wages. Yet
ads. such as these delude men into chancing
their last few pounds on what is at present
a very forlorn hope. There is, of course, no
wages work at all.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 3J/.)


Heerintfs
Est. 1818.
Cop
en
en
a x> «
heerihg
WBWBWW
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
“What a beautiful gown that is, Alice.”
“I’m so glad you like it, Mary. But do
tell me, what’s the matter with my appear-
ance? Although he always praises my gowns,
Fred never seems quite satisfied with my
looks. Why is it? You look a hundred
times more chic than I do.”
“It’s your hat. dear. Why don’t you
throw it away and get a new one?”
“I know I need a new one, but I can’t
afford it. Your hats must cost a fortune.
You always seem to have a new one on.
And they’re always so perfectly splendid.”
“Alice, let me tell you a secret. My hats
don’t cost nearly as much as yours.”
“Impossible.”
“It’s ‘ because I always buy Gage hats.
They’re not at all expensive. All Gage hats,
even those retailed at popular prices, have
that elusive something that you know is the
latest and the best ot style. So I’m able to
buy a new one twice as often as you can,
and I always have the latest thing out. Gage
hats have a style of beauty that you can’t
get in any other kind, no matter how
much you pay for them. Wear Gage hats,
dear, and you’ll be always stunningly
dressed.” — Advt.
Wanted.
Wanted Lady Home Workers.
_pi WEEKLY may be earned in spare time. Dainty
work, easily mastered at home from our simple
instruction. No matter where you live you can take
advantage of our special offer, which is open for a
limited time onlv. Send three stamps for booklet
giving full details. TORCHON LACE CO., 229
Collins Street, Melbourne. m
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their half-yearly Cash Sale
All MILLINERY MODELS - 10/6.
Denison House Chambers, 3rd Floor,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Used the
World Over
hdf
hdf
ghdf
MOTOR
...CARS
SINCE 1679.
1679
SINCE
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 19, 1917.
My Dear Arini.—
The fashion-designers and the freakish
artists they collaborate with have done a
cruel thing in prompting the poor, plain
fashion-plater to brush her hair flat back off
her forehead, so that she seems to be wear-
ing a close-fitting cap, and allowing her a
pair of mannish sideboards by way of com-
pensation. Only the radiant beauty with
perfect features can survive the ugliness of
the style. A young girl first-nighter at “The
Pink Lady,” who thought she resembled the
designers’ dreams in Fluff and Fashion,
only looked as if she had been called away
from the washtub to watch a fire in the next
street. If she had possessed the features of
a Grecian goddess it would have been differ-
ent ; but she was just the average nice girl.
The Y.M.C.A. has come to C on its list,
and is calling up everything under the name
of Camera for the work of its “Snapshots
from Home” League. The idea of providing
the boys on active service, with glimpses of
“back there” originated in England, and was
seized on with enthusiasm by this wonderful
organisation in Australia; and now, every
day, dozens of amateur photographers board
trams and trains and ferries to hunt up Bill-
jim’s little home to take the snap of the
“missus and the baby,” or if maybe
“mother” or the “best girl,” 'that will after-
wards become the most cherished possession
of the dugout in Flanders, or the little
wooden hut on Salisbury Plain. And this is
where you and your camera come in. You
haven’t taken photos, for years. Your in-
strument’s old-fashioned; you have almost
forgotten how the trick’s done. Well, what
about starting again? The Y.M.C.A. needs
dozens and dozens of volunteers for the work
all over the country, and your snapshots
may reach the next home-sick man at the
Front. “Camera fiend” is a phrase of yes-
terday. Make up your mind to become
Billjim’s camera-friend to-day.
Youthful Viscount Uffington, who has so
upset English eligibles by his hasty alliance
with Nina George, a Scotch town-clerk’s
offspring, is a son of Lady Craven, who was
once Miss Bradley Martin, of N’York. Old
Bradley Martin, millionaire, bought Balma-
caan, the ancient home of part of the Sea-
field Grant clan. Lord (Jim) Seafield was
killed in France last year ; he was married
to Nina Townend, of Christchurch (M.L.),
and the small heir, Nina, is now Countess of
Seafield in her own right. The gillies and
other “helps” in Glen Urquhart didn’t appre-
ciate the arrival of the B. Martins in “the
Glen.” But time and dollars can soften
most things. Especially in Scotland.
Britain may rule the waves, but when a
naval officer comes ashore someone is bound
to take him for a hall-porter. This iguo-
rance is quite as marked in England as in
Australia. I have read pathetic complaints
from lieutenants, “snotties” and others, who
in the streets of London have been taken for
commissionaires. The other day a taxi drew
up at the Australia. On the kerb was
standing a senior officer from Jervis' Bay.
“Take those bags in!” said the lady who
alighted. The officer gravely saluted and
took them in. lie’s used to this sort of
thing, and knows from experience that tips
are rarely given. Returning last month, from
his leave, to the R.A. establishment, a cadet
captain was three times called on by old
ladies for a similar service between Brisbane
and Sydney. The fourth call, from a pretty
girl, broke him up, and he retreated at top
speed under a smoke-screen of bitter curses.
Denis Sheridan, of the Harbor Trust, hits
changed his padded secretarial chair for a
less-upholstered seat on an Army Service
waggon, with its shafts turned towards the
booming Front. (I*.S. —The horses will be
hitched up on the other side.) He is on
the verge of the age-limit for active service,
and owns a pretty wife and a girleen of kin-
dergarten years, who are quite willing, seeing
the cause and the need.
Kathleen, second daughter of squatter
Bob Barnes, of Tabulam station, and grand-
daughter of late cattle-chief Henry Barnes,
of the Clarence and Richmond rivers, has
promised to stand at the rails with young
R. S. Smith, only son of Avery Smith, of
Aldershot, Tenterfield. Tabulam is the birth-
place of Major-General Henry Chauvel. com-
mander of the Anzac Mounted Division in
Egypt. The Barneses and the Chauvels are
closely related by marriage.
John Birchland Jones, who pursues com-
mercial art in Brisbane and partnered once
in this town with black-and-white Jardine,
said he would to Nell McAuliffe, a Rockdale
girl, at the R.C. Cathedral, Brisbane, on
December’s last day. Which was a good
resolution to make for 1917 and thereafter.
There was a wedding at St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral on Wednesday afternoon, and now
Nurse Annie Cusack is Mrs. Alfred Moore.
Pale pink blushed through the bride’s gown
of tulle and taffeta, and a long tulle veil fell
from a wreath of the usual blossoms. Recep-
tion at the Carlton, where a large number of
guests were entertained. The bridegroom is
a Queenslander.
Violet Traill, of Burwood, was recently
married at Timaru (M.L.) to W. T. Wigley
of that town. The bride was married from
the home of her cousin, Harold Fisher. Her
bridal costume was cream gaberdine, with
blouse of cream ninon over taffeta, and a
chic hat of tete de negre trimmed with
velvet. They honeymooned at the Cold
Lakes.
Popular Eleanor Cameron got a surprise
presentation when a load of silver tableware
was given her by the staff of the Liberal
Ass. on Saturday. Secretary Parkhill said
the right thing and passed over the present
pleasantly. Miss Cameron is 'giving up her
talking job with the politicals to change her
name and address next month. Andrew
Glencross will be pleased to share his with
her. They will live across the Murray.
Myrtle Meggy,
the pianiste, is here
again after an
absence of nine
years. She was
then in the flapper
stage; now she is
a dainty, symmet-
rical maid, with
the gentlest and
most- unaffected of
manners. She pays
this visit to be
with her mother,
to whom the war
has shown little
mercy. But, if
friendly pressing
will do it, there
are sure to be a
few recitals.
The evergreen and lucky Leslie Walford
has announced that his second matrimonial
venture will begin'early in March; and Ins
bride, Dora Alexander, is submerged in the
preparation of “frillies.” Only one brides-
maid will hold the usual posy and glove.
She will be Jeanette Gordon.
Dainty May Moses, a daughter of
Willie Moses of Wahroonga, has just whis-
pered “Yes,” etc., to Douglas Halliday, of
Queensland. The cats can’t say the Moses
girls are being shelved.
Did you know that the Stork is soon ex-
pected to leave a parcel on the doorstep of
Lady Loughborough in London? Mamma,
Mrs. Harry Chisholm, is anxiofisly anticipat-
ing the acceptable gift. She is a gem of a
cook, so think what opportunities she may
also have in the nursery!
Midge Giles got away from Melbourne,
after all, and a good-bye wire from the West
was received last week. As I’ve told you,
she is to marry Lieut. Jack Chisholm in
Egypt.
Our Lady of the Sacred Heart Church,
Randwick, was very daintily decorated last
Thursday, when Frances Stabbach, of Coogee
and late of Orange, was married to Jack
Graham, of Tarrantella station (Q.). The
bride was in a frock of white taffeta, the
skirt being made very short and draped with
beautiful lace. Her up-to-date tulle veil also
formed the train, which had an edging of
soft ruching. The choir, to which the bride
had belonged, paid her the compliment of
singing St. Cecilia’s Mass during the Nup-
tial Mass.
News has been received of the successful
launching in opera of Jean Drummond, a
Ballina girl who, about eight years ago, was
a member of one of the J. C. Williamson
cos. Miss Clark Irving, a daughter of the
late squatter who in the very early days
owned the whole of the fertile Richmond
River frontages from Casino to the Heads,
with the Tomki station as head of the vast
property, acted as fairy godmother to the
young singer, and encouraged her to go to
Russia, where she toured for six months.
After that, she went to Berlin—that was
just before war was declared. Jean was
detained for awhile, and when released spent
some time in England before going on to
study for opera in Italy. An appearance in
Milan followed 18 months of steady prepara-
tion. Debut as Nedda in “I Pagliacci.”
Tragedy came to the home of Mrs. Richard
Dailey (who was a Miss Sherben of years
past) when a little over a week ago her only
son and remaining child was killed in a tram
accident almost in sight of his gate, at
Waverley. This branch of the Daileys has
lived always very quietly, the son dabbling
in literature, the mother placidly enjoying a
wonderful lot of pictures, silver, ivories and
miniatures from the brushes of star artists
dead years and years ago. The late Richard
Dailey was brother to William Bede, whose
statue stays out in Hyde Park all day and
night.
The clever Asche family, of Sydney, which
is very proud of big brother Oscar and sister-
in-law Lily Brayton. suffered a bereavement
this week, when sister Gunilda died in the
Lewisham Hospital.
Distinguished-looking tea broker A.
Forbes-Angus passed out quietly a while ago.
He used to be a persistent first-nighter.
Mrs. Forbes-Angus, a very pretty woman in
her day, was a Miss Josephs, daughter of
a leading merchant here. Their only child
died of diphtheria in the days before Pasteur
discovered its anti-toxin. The widow and
a manager are carrying on the Pekoe busi-
ness in Queensland Chambers.
Only once did the courtly old man throw
his silk hat into the maelstrom "of politics
and jump after it. That was in the
days of the fight over Federation;
Forbes-Angus was a frenzied anti. But
for that he wouldn’t have figured in a rather
well-known Bulletin cartoon of the period.
He was the sprawling shape under the
wheel of the engine of Nationalism, with
“Toby” Barton on the footplate.
C. C. Dangar, of Baroona, adjutant to a
Light Horse brigade on the trek to Jeru-
salem, has just acquired a Military Cross for
things done somewhere in the Canal war
zone. In days before the war this warrior
wore the upliolsterings of an officer of
Hussars, but the Australian army was good
enough when the real thing arrived.
A Croix Militaire (put it this way for a
change) has been won by Lieut. Ronald
Osborne, of our Field Artillery, for keeping
open a line of communication at a critical
moment. Mosman is his address when he’s
home, the law his profession.
Ice-cream and conversation were the prin-
cipal items at the Haeremai Ivorero tendered
by the Maoriland Soldiers’ Reception Society
to the M.L. Mounted Rifle reinforcements and
the Wirless Corps who passed through Syd-
ney last week. The Oxford Hall buzzed like
a beehive, while old acquaintances were re-
newed and new ones made. Later in the
evening the company settled down to the
more serious matter of supper, preceded by a
short programme of songs and dances, opened
by a rhapsodie on the piano played
by Frank Hutchens, to which the
audience kindly supplied a running ver-
bal obligato. To wear the hair long
seems to be the only plan for stopping the
verbal obligato to piano solos. The boys of
the detachments departed for cam]) about 11
p.m., many of them with boxes of left-over
supper delicacies under their arm. “Got my
breakfast, anyhow,” one of them remarked ; so
apparently the evening was not altogether
wasted. In the absence of the officer-in-
command, Lieut. Westenra, Sergeant-Major
Thompson made a very brief speech. He was
heard to say afterwards that he would far
rather fire off a gun than a speech any day.
Another Military Cross for the Ma State,
and a captaincy with it. This time it goes
to Fred Tinkler, a Strathfield boy, son of
Percy Tinkler of that outpost. Captain T.
Tinkler went through Gallipoli from start to
finish, and is now on the French frontier.
Before buckling on his fittings he drove a
nib in the Registrar-General’s Department,
with a commission in the Engineers to
occupy his spare moments.
Last winter baritone Derek Hudson, as
Henry IV. of France, was telling the
peasants of “Ma Mie Rosette” “I am a
gallant man” —and the orchestra of Her
Majesty’s was helping him for all it was
worth. On Saturday night the same actor,
clean-shaved and dressed in khaki instead of
stage whiskers, steel and velvet, was lurking
at the stage-door of the theatre and yarning
to old colleagues. If he could have gone on
as he was and carolled the King’s solo it
would have been a prize recruiting adver-
tisement.
Actor Whitlow, now in khaki, has been
putting in some of his spare time organising
camp concerts. The other evening there was
a military singsong at Richmond, where the
flying men are trying to make a skylark out
of baritone Derek Hudson, late of the J.C.W.
Royal Comics. 'Before the show Richmond
was hand-billed from the air by one of the
birdmen. The cool, swift ease of it is
enough to make sweating, earth-bound
advance agents throw themselves from slow
country trains and have fits in the dust.
Mrs. Alfred Bray, whose tragically sudden
death occurred a few days ago while she
was writing to her two soldier sons in
France to tell them that she had arranged
to leave for England shortly to ho nearer
them, was the mother of the three brothers
Bray, who some six or seven years ago built
an open-air theatre at the Mosman wharf.
The idea was all right, and the company,
“The Fanciful Follies,” was all right too;
but after the first season Mosman didn’t
want an open-air theatre, and the building,
which had cost some thousands to build, was
closed down. Having a wealthy and gener-
ous mother, however, the failure of the ven-
ture did not mean anything very serious to
the three brothers, who managed to get a
good deal of fun out of the little theatrical
flutter.
Marjorie Williamson and a couple of other
senior flappers are motoring over to Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Williamson left for the same
objective by steamer last Saturday.
The balance-sheet of the recent entertain-
ments to help the Hospice is out. It shows
that a cheque for £5OO 19s. Id. has been
handed to Rev. Mother Cecilia.
Memories of the Dr. Schlink agitation at
Liverpool Camp were revived last week by
the death of his mother at Wodonga. Mrs.
Schlink arrived at the Victorian border
town with her husband ’way back in ’67—
three years before the Franco-Prussian war
—and there the family wore their peculiarly-
German surname without embarrassment
for just on 50 years. Then the European
storm burst and that “ch” became a heavy
load to carry—for awhile, anyhow.
Just gone back to Melbourne Ilopton
Nolan, chief engineer for 30 years of that
ancient excursionist' the Edina —a crino-
lined sea debutante of ’54. Nolan has clung
to the leisurely old steamer and allowed
offers of modern boats to pass over the
engine-room skylight while he kept the Bay-
tramping job that nermitted him to go home
every night like any other suburbanite. 11 is
recent holiday trip to Sydney with his wife
was a Great Adventure.
Mrs. George Fuller, the Chief Sec.’s wife,
with daughter Gwen and niece Coralie Mor-
gan Jones, halted at Melbourne for a few
days, homeward bound from some weeks of
summer in Tasmania.
Florence Young wasn’t available at
bouquet-time last Saturday, when the usual
masses of flowers were being handed over
the footlights at Her Majesty’s, after “The
Pink Lady” had finished her first trip. Some
clamorous men-admirers were so persistent
that little Phil Smith had to protest: “But,
my dear boys, she has gone home, I tell
you !” Florence’s number was the big hit of
the night. She was cast and corseted for
the part of a furious and dignified French
countess, and may have been keeping it up
after curtain-fall.
Another Sydneyite whose venture abroad
was put a stop to is Mary Grant Cooper,
who teaches some of our best families how
to glide through the waltz and the more polite
dances, and is linked by a diamond circlet to
the commander of one of our navy cruisers.
The Caspers duo, after a strenuous musical
time in the Anple Orchard, are back at head-
quarters again. Ella broke the journey with
some friends at Mornington, where Vic-
torians take the breeze in summer-time.
Have you seen the new chintz umbrellas.?
Very bright and spotty, and they’re still rare
enough to make sober citizens turn round
and watch a lucky owner tripping along in a
showerbath of colored sunlight. The effect
is very fine if the lady is decorative and the
dress white.
He was a fine big fellow, as I saw him in
the tram over my needles —broad-shouldered
and with a ruddier face than the typical
Yankee. I thought to myself, “Now, here’s
a likely lad to give them a lift over there.”
but as I ran my eye over him, from his hat
to his spotless .pipeclayed boots, I saw—bend
a little closer, my dear—that he was show-
ing Gin. of white silk stockings! Wouldn't
it be a pity to. splash those with the dirt of
Flanders!
The Fruit and Vegetable Fund, 16 Car-
rington-street, Wynyard Square, sends out
an S.O.S. for women jam-makers, and for
a maid who can worry a type machine and
knows all about adding and subtracting and
multiplying. Men helpers are also needed.
Know any volunteers?
Colonel Watson, whose domestic interests
are mainly Victorian, is off to the real thing
almost at once. He has been assisting at
Liverpool camp for the past few months, and
it’s being asked who can fill his shoes —
socially. Some people think that that really
still matters
Those Maorilanders do get there! Dr.
Jessie Maddison, who' left Christehurch-on-
the-Avon six months ago. duly arrived in the
Land of the Freeze with her case of instru-
ments and her capable fingers in such good
nick that she was very soon appointed one
of the surgeons at the Wharncliffe Mar
Hospital, Sheffield. And Sheffield, as we
all know, is the home of knife-turners.
Tours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS.
FOR PRESENTATION.
Special Oak Presentation Canteens in Solid Silver or
Highest Ouality Silverplate Always in Stock. Special
Terms to Presentation Committees.
THE “SHEFFIELD” TABLE CABINET.
Handsome Oak Table Cabinet, containing OS pieces Hardy
Bros. A 1 Quality “Chippendale” Pattern Spoons and Forks.
- pairs Knife Rests, and 2!) nieces Rodgers’ Rest Ivory
Cutlery,
£4B 0 0.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY & BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON W.
The INGENTO JR.
IS AN INEXPENSIVE CAMERA
OF EXCEPTIONAL VALUE.
Handsome in appearance, compact in sl:« pe. and high-grade in quality
and finish, the INGENTO JUNIOR is a Camera that we are pleased to
recommend to anyone requiring a moderately-priced Camera, because we
know that it will give satisfaction to its possessor.
gh
It is made for Roll Films, can be loaded and
unloaded in Daylight. The body is covered
with Morocco Leatherette, Nickel-plated Lens
Front.
No. 1 takes pictures 24 x 41, with Meniscus
Lens 42/6
With Rapid Rectilinear Lens 52/6
No. 3 takes pictures x 4J, with Meniscus
Lens 47/6
With Rapid Rectilinear Lens 57/6
No. 3A takes pictures 3{- x ~>i, with Rapid
Rectilinear Lens 62/6
Send Your Residues and Assays
to HARRINGTONS’.—
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and Other Metal Workers can depend
on having their
Gres, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, -scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical'Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our Traveller will call on you.
HP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St, 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide / Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories and Laboratories, Sydney,
with the richest voices —with the glorious tonal
effects of your favourite artists!
PLAY!
—with the exquisite tone of
the greatest instrumentalists
as your medium, their per-
feet art as your guidance.
The Graduola —the wonderful expression device of
the Aeolian-Vocalion—gives you mastery of mu"ic—
enables you to play each record—to give it infinite
variety, to lend to it an always fresh and vital charm.
You can know the fascinating pleasure of playing
the Vocalion only through actual experience. We
invite you to come to our showrooms and person-
ally try this newest and greatest instrument of its
type.
Demonstrations at every hour of the day. Gome
in whether or not you are prepared to purchase.
We want everyone to become acquainted with the
extraordinary power of this beautiful re-producer
of disc records.
THE
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
“ PERFECT TONE FROM DISC RECORDS.”
The Vocalion is made in many handsome models.
Priced from
£l2-10-0 to £75.
Write for Descriptive Booklet.
FULL STOCKS of all DISC RECORDS
Your present Gramophone taken in part
payment.
Che Pianola Company
PTY. LTD.
384 George Street, SYDNEY.
/m
.yyjLJfrAV*
tr/A\ irv>
ODD
LZJLZOI
C3£_)jS|j
era
i*i
&
Pj
©
&*
M
s
You can purchase a
Vocalion for 24/- monthly.
SEND US THIS COUPON
with your name, and address and we will mail an interesting
descriptive Catalog, showing the easy terms of payment that will
place a Vocation in your Home without delay.
Please send me Catalog II describing the Vocation as advertised
in Bulletin. ■
Name
Address


FARMER’S for Men’s Stuart Wear
dfg
QUALITY & PRICE KEENNESS ALLIED
Men's CAMBRIC TUNIC SHIRTS, Mill
cuffs, blue grounds, white stripes, also soft
double cuffs. PRICE 6/6 each.
3 for 18/9
Men’s PYJAMAS, in good quality Zephyr, fin-
ished with Pearl buttons; Bradford Collars; light
grounds with neat colored stripes.
PfUCE 9/6 each.
3 for 27/6
Men’s BROADWAY TIES, Black Grounds;
shot ; various stripes; very smart and exclusive
designs. PRICE 2/6 each.
Men’s INDIANA ALL-WOOL BLACK
CASHMERE SOCKS, splendid wearing.
PRICE 2/6 pair.
6 pairs for 14/6
Men’s Mercery , Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
We Pay Carriage on
These Goods' to any Part
of Australia.
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market
and
George Sts.,
SYDNEY
PATRIOTIC WOMEN
are determined to wear only English made Corsets.
PATRIOTIC WELL-DRESSERS
should remember that Nautilus Corsets represent
the latest decree of Fashion, and are procurable
at prices to meet all demands.
MORE WOMEN ARE WANTED
to wear the English made Nautilus
Corsets and to help English Manufactures.
ENGLISH MADE NAUTILUS CORSETS
are the popular Corsets of to-day.
If your* Draper
cannot supply
you
Write the Agents—
279 FUNDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
89 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, February 19, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Y.A.T.C. Autumn meeting began on
Saturday, and, as usual, the fashionables
got out their new autumn frocks ; some were
mad enough to wear them and nearly died
of heat apoplexy. One seemed about to ex-
pire in a smart coat-dress of heavy serge.
Another panted with some new dappled-
amber fur on collar and cuffs. Mrs. Geoff
Syme wandered round the saddling paddock
in a washing frock, a big, shady, blue-lined
hat and a huge palm fan. Mrs. Russell Gabb
looked at the family horses and strolled about
in a flare frock of fawn chiffon cloth with a
cute little blue bonnet. The little Curtis girl,
just back from Sydney, was cool in a neatly-
buckled tussore coat-dress. Mrs. Curtis
favored an Anne Boleyn neck frill with her
taffetas. Pinkie Ryan, in khaki and re-
turned stripes, walked the lawn with the
“little Smith girl” from Sydney. Her start-
ling frock was looped up over silk flaps.
The Fenner girl wore a pink silk kimono —
cool but unconventional. Mrs. Sam Mackay
W’ore white and a stag e-ingenue’s hat. The
L. Iv. S. Mackinnon tribe rejoiced loudly over
Woorak’s win in the Oakleigh Plate.
Mrs. Widdis in white watched, her own
rose-pink Patrobas leave everything behind
in the St. George Stakes. Mrs. Falkiner
wore peach-colored muslin and lace frills,
and the family threw up its hat over a win
by Folly Queen.
Away up at Macedon on Saturday the
vice-regal Stanleys gave a garden . party
among the rhododendrons and, roses for the
various local branches of the Red Cross.
Captain Conant faced fearful odds as chief
genthelp.
Mrs. Ross-Soden gave a big tea-party on
Sunday to welcome home the Norman
Brookes pair. It proved to be both a wel-
come and a farewell, for Norman has been
cabled for again to do more Red Cross work
abroad. He has been back only about three
weeks. The Grong Grong garden was
blooming nicely, and the gardener-hostess
floated round it in a white lingerie frock —
the kind you dare not dream of unless you
have money to burn and laundresses en-
slaved. Mrs. Brookes wore a “little” cream
frock. There was a supper party later of
a dozen, with the precious white-and-gold
service spr.ead out. Chief Secretary Fuller,
from Sydney, his wife and daughter Gwen
made three. Lesley Madden was a fourth;
she was in mouse-color taffeta. Dr. Barry
Thompson (in khaki) and Mrs. Barry
(nigger-head brown and baby roses), the
Austin Emblings and their soldier son filled
some of the other chairs. A good deal of
limelight was focussed on Harry Ross-Soden,
youngest son of the house, who is leaving
almost immediately for the Front. He is
the third of his widowed mother’s boys to
go soldiering.
Rupert Clarke has managed to’ jog to
London, after a struggle with malaria in
Salonika. The doctors assure him he won’t
see himself in khaki again. Daughter
Phyllis was answering the ’phone and doing
other small jobs in the hospital which shel-
tered Dad on his return, and daughter
Possie steps along on visiting days.
A Bendigo bride-to-be has reason to rage
against the submarine campaign which has
stopped the issue of passports to England
for women and children. The damsel,
whose tinned is at the Front, was anxious
to dazzle the cats with a wondrous trous-
seau ; wherefore, instead of postponing the
purchase of her festive frillies until she
reached London, where the Voice was to
breathe, she decided to fill her glory-box
before departing. She dissipated £3OO in
lingerie from Melbourne’s most swagger
frockeries, took it back to Bendigo, and
turned the cats a dull green with envy.
Then, just as she was, as they say in the
French army, en etat de partir, with all
her kit and ’coutrements, came the ukase
stopping the passports. llow the other cats
did purr, to be sure!
What a nuisance it is to be a woman in
these strenuous times! Elsa Grice was
debarred at the last moment from carrying
out her cherished project of voyaging
“Home” to nurse the wounded. And after
she had slaved for more than two years at
the Melbourne Hospital, too, besides saying
all her good-byes and collecting her outfit!
But, besides owning good looks (she once
made a great sensation as Helen of Troy at
some tableaux for charity), Elsa is a girl of
grit, and, putting her outraged feelings in her
knitting-bag, she has returned to the Mel-
bourne Hospital, resolved to continue her
course of training to the bitter end.
Leonard Rod way, the Speck’s latest
C.M.G., draws teeth in Hobart for a crust,
but is a botanist by choice and interest and
the proud father of Florence the artist. He
knows nearly all there is to be known about
Tasmanian plants, and has put in a lot of
time bushwhacking in various out-of-the-way
places. How be came in the galley with
the small, pushing C.M.G.’s Heaven only
knows.
There is wide sympathy for Mrs. Edward
Lascelles, of Geelong, whose husband died
last week. The family had a big previous
trouble when the elder daughter was lost
in the Waratah. The next girl, golden-
headed Audrey, does her war bit well; and
only son Frank, another Saxon, got into
kliaki long since.
No Royal Court could be keyed up to a
higher pitch about an approaching event
than the Plouse of Armstrong-Melba is at
present. A suite of appropriate furniture
has been sent care of the George Armstrongs
at Coombe Cottage, and Melba put the
layette-making in the hands of a little lady
in Melbourne. Any boudoir gossip can tell
you how beautiful the little things are.
The Carse widow just waited to enjoy a
visit from a Riverina Falkiner brother and
his wife before hiring her South Yarra house
out to a couple from England. She will
motor along to the Cliveden warren for a
spell of flat life.
There is an alarming spread of the mili-
tary mo. among journalistic celebrities of
Melbourne. Ted Fact’ry-’ands Dyson has
just attached a most fetching little tooth-
brush. Hal Gye’s long stay in the coun-
try is not unconnected with a furious effort
to sprout one like Kitchener used to wear
(Gye confided this earnest ambition to a
dear friend). Also Charlie Nuttall is dis-
playing the first symptoms; and as for
David Low —well, he walks behind a well-
groomed auburn moustache of great dignity.
The John Grice dame, no longer a mere
Mrs., has hardly been able to squeeze
through her front door owing to the heavy
falls of congratulatory cards and letters. The
blue-eyed dame is the daughter of the late
Gippsland squatter David Power, of Powers-
court, cousin to sporting Herbert. Her
wedding was a social event of the early
’Bo’s, for she and her sister made a double
orange-blossoming of it. (Murphy was the
name of the sister’s husband.) The Grice
pair have lost two sons in war. Lieut. Jim
fell in S’Africa and Captain Tom in the pre-
sent trouble.
Adelaide’s budget:—
The Kindergarten is to lose Miss de Lissa, who
expects to leave in March for London, where she
will be principal of a new teachers’ training cqllege.
Her vacant desk here will be taken over, tempo-
rarily at any rate, by Miss Burgess and Miss King,
both of whom have been on the staff of the local
Kindergarten for some time. Miss de Lissa came
from Sydney 11 years ago, when the kindergarten
movement first started, and she has guided its course
ever since. Another teacher about to depart is Miss
Blanche Collins. She goes to the Girls’ High School
at Hamilton (M.L.) as headmistress.
The last 12 months have been gloomy for Lady
Galway, owing first to the severe illness of her
son and daughter, and now to the news
of the death of her mother, Lady Blennerhassett. Sir
Roland Blennerhassett, who was M-P. for Galway
and Kerry for 15 years, died in 1909.
The Vaughan Government’s promise to appoint a
lady inspector of schools has been made good by
the choice of Miss Longmore, Mistress of Method at
Norwood. She has departmental experience and has
studied Kindergarten and Montessori work in Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales.
A new scheme is unfolding to catch the patriotic
small change. It will materialise as a depBt, to be
open on Fridays and Saturdays, for the sale of
home produce only, and will be run by the Trench
Comforts Committee. Mid-March or thereabouts
should see it in full working order, and, thanks to
the generosity of a local squatter, it will have pre-
mises rent-free.
Although two days of vile weather put a damper
on the Glenelg carnival at the beginning of the
week, the first day’s takings of over £250 gave the
committee a warm glow. Strathalbyn had its Red
Cross fair the other day, and netted £lOO, and the
Red Cross Tea Garden’s takings for January were
over £4O. Likewise, lunch profits at the Clare
races added £7O to the same fund.
A women’s recruiting committee has been formed
Mrs. Crawford Vaughan convener.
Miss Nora Stewart, one of our dancing teachers,
who has been on a visit to London, is on her way
home and is expected to arrive this month. She
brings some heel-and-toe novelties amongst her lug-
gage.
The engagement is announced of Dr. Gilbert, eldest
son of the Pewsey Vale Gilberts, to Miss W. Short,
a granddaughter of the first Anglican bishop of this
diocese.
The moderately new Chief Justice so dislikes a fuss
that he asked the Bar that no mention should be
made of his new knighthood in court.
“Comforts” Commissioner Budden is to be enter-
tained by the Mayor and the Commonwealth Club
as he passes through on his way east to
report upon the good wotk he has done in France
and Egypt. Local workers for trench comforts
expect that his sojourn will induce an extra flow of
cash to their always-hungry funds.
Louisa Dorran, who belongs to a family
of pioneers in the beautiful Mallacoota Lake
region, is engaged to Lieut. J. C. David, of
Mallacoota and Colville, son of the Davids
of Williamstown. The young man fought
in the S’African War and was in charge of
the historic train (an armored express)
which dashed across country with the (.then)
Duke and Duchess of York ab ard. He
fights with the Engineers in France.
E. J. Hogan, who is one of our State law-
givers, took unto himself a country girl as
bride last week at Ballan. Prior to the
ceremony the lady was Mollie Conroy, of a
well-known agricowturalist family in the
Bunding district.
The übiquitous Shepherd, sec. to the
Prime Minister, was married in a most sub-
dued manner to Miss L. Gill last week. Little
Billy hurried to the ceremony and saw the
conspirators safely fastened together. Shep-
herd was a widower and has the disadvantage
of owning an impertinent-looking visage, but
matrimonially he has been regarded as valu-
able prey. It is understood that he and
his new wife will go with the Prime Minister
to the War Conference in London.
Lady Helen originated the Friendly Union
of Soldiers’ Wives and is naturally very keen
on it. The usually rather austere lady really
reveals herself at the monthly meetings and
has got to know most of the soldiers’ wives
and youngsters intimately. She has a “way”
with the children. The meetings have not
yet exhausted the subject of the Day of the
Three Christmas Trees, when some lady
(or ladies) took away electric bulbs and
flags, as souvenirs. The February meeting
happened last Thursday, when the committee
sorted out the retiring and bashful ones who
did not secure presents at the big Christmas
spree and made them happy at last. Lady
Helen never misses a meeting.
General Williams formally handed over
his job as State Commandant last week to
General Sellheim, and is going back to his
drab work as Town Clerk of Ballarat.
Lieut. Maxwell Gumbleton, of the Eng-
lish field artillery, mentioned in despatches
by Haig the other day, is the eldest son of
Ballarat’s lately-imported Anglican gaiters.
He left school to join Kitchener’s new army
in 1915, when dad was still a country par-
son in the Cold Country; and he has been in
Flanders or thereabouts for a little over a
year.
Colonel Tivey’s .wife, most dignified of
matrons, now goes about with a glad-eye
badge pinned to the lapel of her faultless
tailor-made. She wears it not for frivolous
but for sentimental reasons.' Hubby sent it
to her from somewhere in France. With
his men he was lately sent to relieve an-
other regiment in the trenches. He found it
to be led by several of his old comrades of
the S’African Mar. They had a great
reunion, and General Blank gave him the
lucky badge of the regiment, which was this
red enamel shield with a wicked black eye
shining out of it.
. Colonel Kenneth Mackay, M.L.C., who 30
years ago raised the Camden Light Horse,
has come to Melbourne Headquarters from
the Sydneyside to work on the Australian
Army Reserve, of which he has been made
a sort of organiser. This fine big scheme,
which aims at the gathering together of
200,000 fighting men, is now the hobby of
the Colonel. He will use returned Billjim
to give the new body a backbone.
Mrs. C. J. Henderson, wife of the Bank
of Australasia’s manager, assisted by the
energetic Charley Gavan Duffy dame, has
now got her Newspaper and Waste Paper
Depot on a sound working basis, with 400
subscribers on its books, and is collecting
Argus leaders for nothing and selling them
at from £l2 10s. to £l5 a ton. Mrs. Hen-
derson has been granted by the State War
Council the sole right to conduct this form
of paper-chase in the city, and the
Mayoress’s Patriotic Fund benefits to the
extent of something like £5O a month.
Brighton is out to repeat its wonderful
patriotic success of last year. It is prepar-
ing a Red Cross Carnival, which is to frolic
from February 24 to March 3, in the Wilson
Hall and grounds at Middle Brighton. Gov-
ernor Stanley will come along and patter,
and Sentimental Bloke Dennis has written a
Limerick with a missing line to be supplied
by competition.
Mrs. Eric Connolly has presented a whole
kitchen to be raffled for the Brighton Patri-
otic Festival. A big chiffon store in town
has been showing the fascinating exhibit,
and it completely fills one window. It
makes me wish I could cook.
Pianist Ruby Gray, who has been holi-
day-making at Honolulu with Melba, is
going on to California with the Voice, which
is to make its trills heard at two concerts
in the land that is (not) too proud to fight
(Mexico). Peggy Center, the Honoluscious
maiden who was with Melba when she was
last here, made her professional debut at a
Honolucrative concert at which three of her
songs were rendered to Melba’s accompani-
ment. The populace was enthusiastic, and
at the end the Governor mounted the plat-
form and thanked Melba for the help she
had given the island songbird.
Walter Kirby has been giving concerts in
Tasmania, and the State Governor not only
fed him but turned up at two of his con-
certs. Some reliable Australian people
assisted. Doris Madden made a big success
at the piano, a genthelp trotting up with
a posy of vice-regal flowers for her during one
furore. Olive Godwin took her best voice
and her best frocks along and had a great
time. Walter found six o’clock closing most
annoying. His sacred voice demanded liquid
food, and in desperation an appeal was made
to a neighborly concert-goer, who, wizard-
like, produced a bottle of foaming stout.
Kirby in his eagerness to lap it up before
his next song spilt some brown drops on his
beautiful sliirtfront, and there was a scene
of great agony until the ladies came to his
aid with face cream and powder, which made
the brown stains invisible from the “front.”
Doris Gilham, who features the ice-chesty
Mrs. Chichester in the Tait production of
“Peg o’ My Heart,” missed the roll-call in
Geelong the other night. While in Tas-
mania Miss Gilham and Sara Allgood’s
understudy, Tien Hogue, overheard some
anti-British remarks by a prominent local
person, and reported the indiscretion to the
proper quarter. As a reward the pair were
almost engulfed in subpoenas commanding
them to stay behind in Tassy and attend an
inquest on the disloyal conversation.
The hero’s shooting-hut in “The Mislead-
ing Lady” is obviously built for the occa-
sion. The canoe that hangs from the rafters
gleams with shop varnish, and the straps
that hold it are yellow and new and the
buckles are bright. A fishing-basket against
the wall looks as if it has just been lifted
from a shop window, the canoe paddles
haven’t a scratch on their brilliant ochre
paint, and the hatchet could be sold as new
by any ironmonger. The fishing-rods have
never known the. caress of a muddy fisher-
man’s hands, but they are exactly the length
to fit the plot. The Lunatic uses one to
reach from the skylight to the telephone on
the table. One night somebody forgot to
put the telephone within reach, and a very
wild lunatic was forced to come downstairs
to deliver his next lines.
The complimentary benefit to Gregan
McMahon, at the Playhouse on Saturday
night, got a capacity house in spite of the
breathless heat. The G.-G. sent regrets, but
his household was well represented by a
party led by Lady Helen. Haskett Smith,
the little genthelp with the Charlie Chaplin
moustache, came as wrap-carrier, and Miss
Onslow sat in a cool pale ninon dress.
Knight Robert Garran was there with his
dame, and G. H. Knibbs was handy with
his pocket full of decimal points. Mrs. Marsh
sat with the Government House party for
a while. She wore a wide white panel of
lace from neck to heel down the back of her
black ninon dress. The boxes were filled
with highly-decorative folk in complete
fashionable undress.
For the past week a collection of paint-
ings and drawings that belonged to Alf Vin-
cent has been on view at the Savage Club,
and shortly after this reaches you the
Savages will be making bids for the pictures.
A couple of them are interesting examples
of Vincent's work in water-color, a medium
which he too rarely used; and several
artistic reminders of his discovery of “the
East” are likely to be keenly competed for.
The small Vincent child, now motherless as
well as fatherless, benefits by the sale.
The Argus dearly, loves to look out and
watch the procession go by—a real pro-
cession, all dressed up with tom-fooleries
and expensive frills. In order to win the
war Melbourne is to procesh next Saturday
in a very richly-embroidered manner. It is
promised that the turn-out will exceed any-
thing ever seen in Victoria. And still Grand-
mamma isn’t satisfied. Here is the final
touch needed :
Among the many excellent ideas suggested one of
the most interesting appears to have been overlooked
....a march past of soldiers and sailors in squads,
dressed in the costumes of various periods.... These
uniforms could doubtless be acquired or copied.
And dash the expense! Can’t it come out
of the new war loan?
War-time economy has withered the pro-
fits of the commercial florists. Expensive
wedding posies and social-frivol decorations
are “off,” and even theatrical floral trophies
are losing weight rapidly. The flower people
are feeding the wolf anigh the shop-door
with cut blossoms, and looking ruefully
at the patriotic stalls.
Mrs. Toorak is supposed to be away by
the sea, and if the ’phone rings a maid
reports “Not at home!” But several ener-
getic dames, tiring of beach-lounging and
books, have motored home surreptitiously and
got to work at jam-making. Peaches, apri-
cots, raspberries and strawberries are to be
had for the collecting now, and it is the all-
over apron and the stove for them.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


m
dm
a
2k
-
'
r
...v:
f - V /
.
i. -.- e. W-
„> /■ '*
•t>.. ■ , «-
, ; :
■
. .
.
• : ;, .. - .
■
•• - ' - •••:
Vice-Admiral SirD.Beatty
, - ' • • •• *
■ - ■ - .....
• ‘ • - * . " ' •
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
*
THE above portrait of Vice-Admiral Sir D. Beatty is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or \2 penny
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
°?dX
Q Scotch If'hitM l '
*O. , 0u.1.1, («,.■(•
7v&/otrr> /{CgO 9
***' tiuruipß “•••'"
3«
%
¥
%A
■%.
y
Hi
Tic'X
Mli
US
a
w/z/mm
m
V's'S/i
mm
ii
H
s/y r s///My,
< yMw44W//sssssss*,,i
wm.
M o j


Behold the face of
Ben,
He hasn’t shaved
deuce-knows-when,
If he but kneiv
The thinij to do!
It isn’t WORK to
PENN.
Bristly
since
use a
98 :
Don’t Read This Ad.
want* 1 arC Satisfled with your Razor; but read it if you
“shaving SATISFACTION.
You can SCRAPE your face with any old razor. A rapid
that SHTvES haVe—ShaVinß satisfactio "-requires a blade
PENN BLADES are made so that they DO shave. Each
blade being; made of Sheffield Steel is separately tempered.
g;round, honed and tested.
7/6
pENN
SAFETY
7/6
with 5 Blades
That DO Shave
Costs 7/6 complete— post free—and positively gives REAL
shaves, which is what you want every day, not once in a
Your three half-crowns back if you do not get complete
SHAVING SATISFACTION.
ALL STOREKEEPERS, or direct
A. C. PENN, Inc.
i
420 George St.,
SYDNEY.
A Signal Success |
<£o-~~±£ZSi\
King George IV
wmsHSsr
TheTOP-NOTCH Scotch
a— —————mai
dfh
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Tiaki” : I used to wonder how the Maori
always managed to procure barrow pig just when he
wanted it for a Ministerial banquet or a tangi until
I went into the Moumoukai bush. Suddenly I heard
Captain Cook testing the acoustic properties of the
welkin with his squeals, and I went to see what
was doing. Then I discovered the grand secret.
Henare had emasculated the pork, and (because it
was easier, perhaps, than gouging) he was burning
out the eyes with a firestick. He explained that it
was considered cute husbandry to emasculate and
blind Dinnis, let him go in a good hinau patch and
pick him up when he was needed. The pork, being
blind, never wandered away from the place where
the tucker was. Henare confessed that he had never
heard of the S.P.C.A.
# * *
“Ko-ax” : The myriads of insects bred
among the rank growths which resulted from,> Vic-
toria’s recent abnormal rains were followed in some
parts by an army of frogs. Rosedale, for instance,
looked like Kg'ypt at the time of Pharaoh’s second
plague. . The frogs were small beasties, and resem-
bled brigades of grasshoppers on the move. The
ground was for a time alive with them, and the
holiday traffic of motors and motor-cycles slew thou-
sands. And for their part the reptiles cleared the
gaidens of millions of slugs, snails and mosquitoes.
THE PATRIOT.
MISTRESS: "Violet, I don't like to complain, but look at the piano. It's obscured in
dust.”
VIOLET : “Yes’m. I left it like that a-purpose. I thought per wouldn't like any of
yer friends ter see it was German make.”
WHEN THE TROUBLE BEGINS.
JOHNSON: “Say, old man, come up to our house to-night. We are going to have a little
party, (roing to name the baby. My mother-in-law and baby's uncles and aunts are
going to be there. I wish you would come."
BEENTHERE : must excuse me, Johnson, I never mix in family quarrels."
Tambu” : A l’econt Abo-writer gave some
particulars of world’s record rainfall. Fiji takes
•some beating. In 11 days, from December 30,
1916, to January 9, 1917, at Nandarivatu, 2000 ft.
above sea level, there fell 4ft. 4in. 93 points. For
1916 Suva s fall was 152.35 inches, as against an
average of 97, the greatest fall on a single
day being 7.72 inches in August. One day in 1910
there fell 15.9 inches. The greatest fall in a single
day was 26.50 'inches. That was in 1906.
“H.V.E.”: Four “sea-pigs” were cast up
on Eunga beach (South Coast N.S.W.) the other
. day. Each porpoise bore one or more indentations
made by bombs from a whaler’s gun. The ammuni-
tion seemed to have done no more than penetrate
the thick hide and explode, and all but one pig
appeared to have been killed bv concussion. This one
was still living when cast up, and in mighty death-
throes struggled wildly among jagged rocks, in-
carnadining the water with its blood.. The strangers
varied from about nine to 12 feet in length, and
were black in color, or white with a few black
patches towards the head and tail. One was cut
open, disclosing dark-red meat. Of this an enor-
mous golianna later carried several large chunks up
into the bush.
“Tom Longy”: “Bad Australian” (B.
18/1/T7) asks “What about the mandioca as a
standby for the Northern cocky?” Does not that
distant vegetable contain a juice that is poisonous
unless the grated root is treated in some particular
way ? The cocky has had rabbits, foxes, sparrows
and other vertebrae; likewise prickly-pear and
water-hyacinth. No more! Put the" acid, dead
strong, on mandioca, or leave it where it is.
“Chink”: The question (propounded B.
25/1/’] 7) as to which Australian bird lays the
largest setting of eggs doesn’t admit of a very
definite answer, but the biscuit should probably be
passed up to the cuckoo tribe, whose lady mem-
bers produce over a score apiece each spring. Inci-
dentally, “Fiat Lux” should be poleaxed for address-
ing any Australian bird as a “Java sparrow.” Fur-
ther, he romances* recklessly in accusing any one
bird of dropping 19 eggs in a session. Either sev-
eral bird-wives contributed, or the casual observer
had been drinking it out of. the bottle. Apropos the
cuckoo there is no disputing the remark of “E.S.S.”
(B. 25/l/’l7) that this bird is death on hairy cater-
pillars ; but does this service (and sundry others)
atone for the numerous fine un-bonused babies lost
to Australia through the Ishmael’s unpleasant habit
of emptying them out of their cradles? Another
native who takes a lively interest in caterpillars
is the handsome crested bell-bird- —not Kendall’s
bell-mina, but the more golden-toned ringer of
inland areas. This Australian’s attitude, however,
is hard to understand. He has never been seen to
dine on caterpillars, yet he keeps a goodly
stock thereof on the rim of his bark humpy,
where they repose in a half-petrified condition.
The supposition is that they are imprisoned for
the benefit of bell-bird junior; but ’tis very doubt-
ful if the youngsters eat the hairy frights. The
problem has long been puzzling birdologists, and if
any Abo-liar can solve it he will probably be made a
Knight Commander of the Order of the Crow.
(Continued on page 24.)
WHEN GILLIGAN’S BROWN RAN DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I here was trouble on Merrivale course on' the clay
that Gilligan won the Plate
With a three-legged cripple of doubtful breed and
• lumbering, awkward gait,
Who ploughed his way to the trial spin that loosened
him not by half,
And caused the wit in the ricketty stand to shout,
“What price, Giraffe!”
He was lank and lean and short of hair, and his hide
was mottled and brown,
He d points enough ,and a few to spare, and a dent
in his wicked old crown ;
And his rudder was duster-like in its shape, and it
rose and fell like a flail,
And the index to whether he tried or not was the
brush of this rearward tail.
tV as he dead as a mutt, then the rudder was jambed
atwixl his ugly legs,
And he rolled along like a tramp in a storm, a
huddled old hide on pegs ;
But waken him once with a touch of the spur and
the brush would rise to the breeze
And waggle itself and keep in time to his hard,
wind-broken wheeze.
Iwas then heel come like a camel gone mad and
scare half the field from the course,
A wicked, designing old moke, you’d say, this
doddering freak of a horse.
tV ell, have what you will, he could cut out the time,
though humping good tonnage of lead,
And a habit he had that breaks half the books of
landing “the goods” by a head.
On the day he was saddled to run for the Plate,
Curly Brown and a mate, Ginger Cross,
tt ho knew a good thing when it happened along
turned up—unexpected, of course.
For .Curley heard something about the old crock,
and at Yass he had piled on the dough.
But the rudder had jambed as the barrier flew—they
had banked on a “stiff ’un,” and so
They followed the scent, all wise in their hour —they
knew of the Merrivale Plate.
And two of the Biest of mugs on the day watched
Spitfire sneak through the gate.
“How now?” queried Cross, as the jockey jogged by,
“Are ye havin’ a go wid de ned?”
Then, “ ’Struth, we are sent for,” he hissed to his
mate, as the Cupid atop answered “Dead!”
Yet right in the straight up shot the old tail, tick-
tacking its way in and out —
Spreadeagling the field, in the parlance of sport,
aputtin’ the poddies to rout!
And they cursed all the breeding of Spitfires—Le
Grande, the sire, the dam and the son,
And said just the things that a loser would say—
because an old dead ’un had won!
“The double’s the game,” they agreed, and next day
they chanced quite a pile on the Cup,
And were tickled to death as the horses went out to
see the same riders were up.
It’s a shame to relate all the tricks of the trade, and
how the poor punter is bled.
The pilot said “Right! I am jigging this time!”
Sing Ho ! for the quick and the dead !
For Gilligan plastered it both ends that day—h,e was
working the market this way:
He figured that backing the Mogul to win and Spit-
fire a second would pay.
Of course it came off, and Gilligan drank of the
best of good liquor thgt night,
TiH full as a nest-egg he mounted his horse and
headed for home at Scott’s Height.
He'd to cross a wide plain, then to pass through two
gates that blocked the south Muggalong line,
. Then through a short scrub, a turn to the right and
up by the Callaway Mine.
Every inch of the track was well known to the
horse, and along the dark pathway'he crept,
While Gilligan, fagged with his work of the day, like
a tired hog nodded and slept.
Maybe the old cuddy was weary as well—he’d been
doing good things for his mate—
And had lost just the cunning he needed so much,
for he passed through but one creaking gate.
Then he turned to the right and stumbled along,
not disturbing poor Gilligan’s nap,
Till a wild, screeching whistle half wakened the boss
—in the grip of a terrible trap.
Some furlongs behind him, yet racing like hell, came
the ponderous Muggalong train,
The thunder of wheels and the hissing of steam
befuddled poor Gilligan’s brain.
An instant he wavered, then saw at a glance the
distance he needed to make
And started to race—this time ’twas all in—with
both rider and Spitfire awake !
And Gilligan saw the dark banks near the sky to
the mouth of the long cutting dip,
As it flashed with a surge of hot blood through his
brain that to win he must pull out the whip ;
Yet he loved his old mate and he grieved at the
thought of testing his courage. He knew
•What the Spitfires were made of. The • wind-rush
behind told well how the iron steed flew.
The whistle of whalebone was sharp through the air
and serried the fading nag’s side;
Once he swerved from the ripping and tearing it
meant, then swung to a good measured stride.
With a furlong to go and 12-stone for a load on a
heavy and treacherous track,
That heat-belching monster that ran on the rails
seemed slowly enticing him back.
Still Gilligan called on the game horse again, a call
he had answered before
As he flashed past the Leger and on to the judge to
the tune of the multitude’s roar ;
And the plucky old devil responded anew, then
faltered and faltered again,
Twenty lengths from the curve he was tossed off his
legs and away went the Muggalong train.
The game blood of Spitfire bespattered the rails; the
wheels crashed through muscle and bone;
And the rest of the course from the plain to the
town was Gilligan’s job—and alone!
For he sat cold and stiff on the warm boiler-plate,
flung back from the ghastliest wreck.
lie had reached the last post and had made a dead-
heat, with the thing that had twisted his neck.
Well, they asked Curly Brown could he swear to the
corpse, he’d been seen in its comp'nv before,
So he pulled off the cap, and he entered the morgue,
and in s®rrow respectfully swore:
“It’s old Gill, all right, an’ ’is number seems up!”
Then shaking his rough, tousled head,
He added these words: “Gor bli’ me, hard duck, for
this time he’s fair dinktim dead !”
N.S.W.
SPOT BARD.


Preparation Wins Out
from Hesitation
and Murdoch’s are prepared with a fine
range of
New Season’s
Suitings.
Now is the opportunity for you to pre-
pare for Autumn days. Economy is
yours if you order
ST
A MURDOCH
Suit-to-Measure
63
Visit us and let us show you these
smart Suitings—handle them and con-
vince yourself that here are Tweeds
and Worsteds of merit. Designs and
shadings are up to the minute, and
Murdoch’s guarantee value up to the
limit in every Suit they Tailor. Our
nolicy of “Money back if not satisfied”
is your rock of defence.
May we have your Order To-day ?
DESK R„
Messrs. MURDOCH’S IN PARK STREET
LIMITED, Sydney,
Please forward patterns o i New Season’s
Suitings at 63/- the Suit-to-Measure, with tape
and self-measurement form.
NAME
ADDRESS
Fill in the coupon if you
can’t call—we’ll post pat-
terns by return.
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney
(C
WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
what tk “Victory” Dispensing
Machine is doing for Hotelkeepers.
tit**
A direct saving of 25 to 50 per cent, in time,
convenience and material in the delivery
of ice-cold Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Soda
Water.
By the aid of the “Victory” Bar Arm these
are all brought to the bar, and any quantity
can be drawn from loz. upwards.
One Barman can do absolutely the work of two
with the aid of the “Victory” Machine.
Remember, it is the only Bar Arm on the
market with the Patent Water Flush
System, which positively ensures clean
flavored drinks.
This machine has been installed by many of
the leading hotels throughout the State
with pronounced success.
It is enough proof of the efficiency -of the
“Victory” Bar Dispensing Arm when
testimonials such as the following are
voluntarily sent to our firm :
To The Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.,
219 George Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
The “Victory” Dispenser is running
with great success; in fact, I would not
be without it. It is a moneymaker for
any Hotelkeeper. It has cut my cordial
bill from £2O a month to £4 a month.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) ARTHUR BOLTON,
Commercial Hotel,
’ Lockhart, N.S.W.
We guarantee the success of this machine
by bacKing it with a 5 years* guarantee.
You can get all particulars by sending us a postcard.
NELSON'S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Queensland Agents : J. W. Palmer Ltd., Cork Manufacturers and Importers,
Qrey Street, South Brisbane.
Adelaide: Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Sflreet.
Perth : A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street.
New Zealand: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield &i Allen Streets, Wellington.
mMMWWm
m
■»
t
V&&-
Jk
■ .
m
>■:
11
i
' ■ 1
-
K
i
iti%,
y■* mt »«
...
The Mitchell-a model of elegance
HE alluring beauty of
the Mitchell attracts
you at your first glance.
Your pleased eye lingers on
the smoothly-flowing lines,
running without a break from
front to rear. The backs of
5*
the front seats do not project
above the bodyline —they are
blended with the long, - sweep-
ing lines of the car. The
parts of the body are combined
in perfect harmony. You will
have the admiration of your
friends, and the approving
glances of when
your Mitchell passes, silently,
easily. Equally satisfying will
you find its efficiency,, its>endur-
. ance, and the comfort it gives.
Write for Mitchell booklets.
Seven-passenger, £495»
Five-passenger, £435*
Single-seater, £4^s>
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland: F. H. GORDON & CO., 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Agents for Victoria and Tasmania: JAS. A.
MUNRO & CO., 493-503 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. Agents for South Australia: ORCHARD RALPH & CO., Victoria Street, Adelaide. Agents
for West Australia: BRADLEY & WILLIAMS, 853-857 Hay Street, Perth. Agents for New Zealand: North Island—lNGLlS BROS., Wellington;
South IsIand—HAMLET & TENCH, 166 Tuam Street, Christchurch.


HOW TO CURE CHRONIC INSOMNIA.
WELL-KNOWN SOLICITOR PROVES
NEW THEORY CORRECT.
A well-known city solicitor, while reading
the recent publication of the remarkable
nerve-building and strength-increasing pro-
perties of bitro-phosphate, became inter-
ested in the claims made by several eminent
authorities that bitro-pliosphate, being a
valuable remedy for most nervous disorders,
would be equally effective in the treatment
of insomnia and all other troubles due to
worry, nerve, strain and decreased nervous
energy. Having suffered for many years
from persistent insomnia he decided to give
it a trial, and he now writes: “I am more
than pleased with the result. It is a great
relief to find that I can now get at least
50 per cent, more sleep than I could before
taking bitro-phosphate. My wife has also
derived much benefit from a similar course.”
Owing to tire wide interest shown by pro-
fessional men, bitro-phosphate is now
readily procurable from all _ chemists in 5-
grain tablets, one of which should be
taken with each meal. As a nerve _ and
strength-builder and health-restorer it is of
the greatest value; and doubtless vastly
superior to, as well as cheaper than, patent
foods or dangerous drugs.—Advt.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
kh
i
1
i
§
1
1
i
i
i
i
1
i
1
i
i
I
1
1
1
n
m
Ensure protection against
contrasts of temperature by wearing
the British "ind?
a
Underwear
Jason Garments give safety in all
weathers —never clammy, always com-
fortable and soft as silk.
New ”Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co,, Leicester, Eng.
Ab 70 <j)
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS "WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MEEBOURNE-
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGEE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
‘Lena H.”: Towards the end of 1912,
which was a very wet summer in the Riverina, a
plague mosquitoes came upon us like black
clouds. We could hear the peculiar hum they make
lcng before we saw them. We knew they were com-
ing, for friends 30 miles away had telephoned that
the pests were swarming there over everything, and
that they were travelling in our direction. It was
thi ee hours before the first of them arrived. The
horses soon went mad. They galloped into sheds,
then out and round and round the paddocks trying
to escape their enemies. Next morning when a
stockman went out to take his dog from the kennel
all he could find was a heap of hair at the end of
the chain. The mosquitoes had killed and eaten
the poor beast and taken the bones with them as
souvenirs.
* * * *
“Salex” : I’d like to see “Werrimee,” the
bush optimist, come down to earth at Sussex-street,
Sydney, and try to sell some of the “native honey”
he booms (B. Either he or the honev-
buyer is a bad judge, because native honey is almost
unsaleable in town. I have handled fair quantities
of it, and it is generally dirty in color and very
thin and sickly sweet. At any rate, the local buyer
will never take it except at big concessions. Maybe
the consignors’ methods of extracting the honey are
antiquated. “Werrimee’s” burst of enthusiasm cer-
tainly couldn’t have been worked up on the stuff
I’ve seen marketed.
. * * * *
“Melos” : The sale a few days ago of the
meatworks on the Clarence to a Victorian firm recalls
a tragic occurrence there. After the visit of The
King William, the first steamer to enter the river
(May, 1839), Dr. Dobie took up the land as a
station and named it Ramornie. Subsequently the
blacks murdered some of the whites on the run, and
a body of settlers, with Commissioner McDonald and
his border police, set out to administer the penalty.
Neither age nor sex was shown quarter, and numbers
of bodies floated down stream to Grafton, known
then as “the Settlement.” In 1865 Ramornie passed
into the hands of C. G. Tindal, and the preserving
works were established.
**. * *
“Tiaki”; That par. of “E.S.S.” (B.
25/l/’l7) anent centipedes and their bites reminds
me of the remedies from Henare’s pharmacopoeia.
While in the district “where creation almost
speaks,” the Baj' of Islands, I came across what
appeared to be a jury whf> were sitting on one
lhaka Wharere, not deceased. Ihaka was naked
and about 80 stone of Henare squatted on his
body solemnly administering a corrective for centi-
pede bite. AVhen it was applied Ihaka shivered
the welkin with his roars. I almost forgot to
state that the remedy was a red-hot ember, applied
neat.
* * * *
“Eryander”: “Nose to tail, seven feet,”
was the measurement given for the big dingo
recently killed in the Tweed River district, and
described as a “half-bred staghound,” Scottish deer-
hound probably being meant. In Nor’-West Victoria
once there was a daring dog-marauder known as
“the Magpie,” on account of his black-and-white
coloring, from which, and his reputed great size, I
knew that he couldn’t be pure dingo. Neither traps
nor poison could get him, and, though hundreds
of guns were on the lookout for him, nobody could
get a successful shot. I had almost begun to doubt
his existence, when one day, riding back to the
station, I heard from a scrub-patch a sound pf a
scrimmage, and pushing in found two of the station
dogs doing battle with a brute that I knew must
be the Magpie. He tried to bolt when I arrived, but
the other tykes held on gallantly till I finished him
with a revolver-bullet. He weighed 921 b., and was
apparently a cross of what is known as the Eandseer-
Newfoundland with the dingo, for he had dingo
ears and patches, of dingo yellow scattered amongst
his black-and-white.
NOT TO BE BEATEN.
CHAMPION LIAR (after the explosion ):
“ Gripes! Still it’s nothing to the near
thing I had one time with a big snake
up on the Darling.”
THE EVADER.
DOMAIN REFUGEE (to old lady picking over coins): “Don’t make it too ’ot, lady. I
don’t want’r come under this new War Tax.”
“D.0.C.”: Big shouts? The late Dr.
J. G. Beaney, of Melbourne, called for £6O worth
of wine at the Old White Hart Hotel in Bourke-
street. The splash was made one night in ’B2 just
before election time when the Doctor was aiming
at the House of Rich Landlords.
“Wandi”: The Australian raven (the big
white-eyed villain) has more cunning even than
the crow. He kno.ws a poor horse from a fat one,
and will dance on his back, squint around at his
eyes to ascertain the state of his health, peck him
here and there, comment on the probable quality
of the meat, crack jokes about him and leave
spots all over him. He knows a bushed man, and
as he follows from tree to tree, noting his bewildered
demeanor, his tone is horribly sarcastic. It
isn’t a cheerful prospect when the black scavengers
start to follow you. It makes you feel as if you
are going to your own funeral. They can tell a
sick sheep at a glance, and will hang on to its
neck and peck its eyes out, then dig a hole through
its back and feed on its clockwork, while the
eyeless animal walks about in agony. Watch half
a dozen of them walking along behind a feeding
lamb, talking to one another. If the baby drops too
far behind the mob the push gets busy; if it lies
down they wait till the others get away, and that's
the end of a section. They will follow a dingo on
the warpath for miles, knowing well enough when
Warrigal kills they will come in for the pickings.
“Jobber” (still on active service) : Talk-
ing of yarraman, my father had a mare that he rode
60 miles a day for six days; and she was off the
grass.
“Margot”: “New Chum” (B. 1/2/T7) will
find that castor-oil smeared lightly on exposed skin
will cause mosquitoes to gnash their fangs at a
distance. Placed on the eyelids of babes it will
also keep flies tangoing in mid air. But don’t let
the oil get into the kids’ eyes or they’ll wish that
their grandparents had never been born.
* * * *
“Spraggs” : To include kurrajong tree as a
fodder is admitted by stock-owners to be sound
sense (B. 25/l/*l7). But make inquiries around
Southern Riverina, and ask the old hands what
fodder saved their stock when the drought was
getting its punch in, and to a man they will
reverently answer boree.
-> * * ■ * *
“Russ”': With wheat at its present price
I’d like to have got away with a load which rolled
into Ganmain (N.S.W.) a few days ago. It weighed
25 tons without the waggon. That ought to be some-
where near a record.
“Koonali” : Can any Abo. identify a species
of lizard fairly common in the Mallee (Vic.) ? It
is about six inches in length, and while lying motion-
less in the sun is marked with bands of brown, yel-
low and black. As soon as it is disturbed it makes
for its dugout at a speed which would do credit to
a cocky escaping from a mortgage. If captured its
color immediately changes to a dark grey all over.
It also has the power of shedding its tail when
that appendage is grasped.
“Haka”: The records of the M.L. knights
of the banjo are being neglected. I find that Kelly,
the Maoriland Rake, has been permitted to pass
out without a solitary lid being removed. Barney,
the White Rat King, seems to have had no word
of farewell, and Cry in Limerick appears to have
had a similar silent send-off. Limerick’s genuine weep
for a beer was a masterpiece-—but it always took
another to stop him. Then there was Billy the
Dough Banger, French Harry, The Duke, Red
Jack, The Shiner, The Wild Macbeth, The Editor
and Cockney Joe. I have seen Cockney bundled
out of the train at Omakau, and when we arrived
at Dunedin, 100 miles further on, he was on the
platform swearing about the stupidity of the
railway officials in mislaying his luggage.
“Lowan”: I nearly fell down dead when I
read of “Spraggs’s” 70 horses to 12 tons of wool.
He says the ground was boggy. Well, I have seen
eight horses, rolling in heavy- mallee, repeatedly
break f-inch guide-chains, and 1 once watched 20
bullocks, stuck in a sandbank, pull the intestines
out of a vehicle that was carrying 12 tons. The
waggon that would stand the strain of 70 horses
doesn’t revolve in the Commonwealth. Also the
back tackling on such a team would .have to be
about the dimensions of a train rail to stand the
strain.
W # * *
“Condamine” : There is a flock of Jacka-
burras near my place more than usually gifted with
a sense of humor. I’ve a couple of dogs, whose
chief work is killing the gohannas which infest the
locality, and it is the birds’ warning screech that
gives the office to Rover and Bob to charge for
their lives to the spot. The supply of reptile has
now about run out, but the birds are not going to
lose their sport. They get aboard a sandalwood
and screech until the dogs race' up ; then while the
deluded animals are* hunting for the gohanna that
isn’t there the Jacks burst their buttons laughing
I’ll have to shoot the jokers soon or my dogs will
be worn to the kneebone.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN SLANGUAGE.
BIG BROTHER: “Young Bill says the umpiring in the last school match was a muck-up.
Rotten way of putting it. Alight just mean that the umpire was a rotter, or it
might mean he was dead crook. But, then, Bill never could sling decent
English.”
BEAUTY BATHING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the still bush I chanced last night,
At sunset, on the fairest sight,
And, pausing, scarcely breathed ;
I saw my lady Beautiful
Bathing in a pebbly pool
With ferns and wattles wreathed.
Tb; gully felt the sunset glow,
The air was hushed, the winds bl w low-
The lovers’ hour, and tender.
As o’er the rocks the- water dashed
In bubbling waves, she stoed and splashed
Witn foam her body slender.
Then bathing in the waters brown
She watched the dead leaves whirling down
By gurgling eddies stirred.
She fluttered, danced; she sang with glee,
Then flew away—for .this was she,
The little wattle-bird.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


'/a
'A
%
t
S*'S£§!2f’»
/V*33?>
SW?! 1 .
I
1
enc
Cigarettes should possess
individuality something
distinctive something
that lingers pleasantly in
the mind.
Once you have made the
acquaintance of
S T sre (SPRPss
CIGARETTES
you will recognise their personality and their
claim on your loyalty for all time. You will never
regret becoming a smoker of these delightfully
“individual” cig'arettes.
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
!O for 6d.
STANDARD WEIGHT NOT LESS THAN lO for 6d.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australia.
4/
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. Ltd., LONDON, ENGLAND.


School Children
arc very liable to catcb
cold. They Hare to
go in all weathers
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risfc from infection —especially when epidemics o
Whooping Gough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can be always t KEiCi
of ANXIETY if they have a bottle of
Heames
Bronchitis
■= Cure ==
is the house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a ' cold will at once nip in the
hud” what might otherwise prove to he a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up—the rest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA,
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
4/6
Double
Size
2 16
Vll
4
TL
m
&
•Z)
rft
-V
o==
\
2
CWINC.
12
“Hassan”: Events are in train for
another big American combine in Australia -
the Film Combine. The beauty of it is that
many of the heads, of the big Yankee cos.
are hyphenated Germans. Over ioUUU a
week 'already goes to America from Aus-
tralia to these people. We ought to feel
proud of ourselves. Why Australian money
should be allowed to leave here at a time
like this for the benefit of a lot of Germans
and American Jews is beyond my compre-
hension. The coming combine will just
settle the whole business. The most valu-
able aspect of cinematography, the presenta-
tion of realities, has already been almost
swamped by this sickly -and false Yankee
rubbish. A little of it is all very well, no
doubt. But the pictures one remembers are
such films as those of the fleet in
“Britain Prepared,” or the feomme pictuies,
and I feel sure that they are really more
popular than even Miss Mary Bickford in
a footling American romance. Well, when
the Combine really takes hold we will get
only what it likes to give us. America has
already driven me away from picture houses,
and there are many others who think as I
do. .
Beaumont Smith has given a private trial
trip in Adelaide to the first of his locally-
filmed productions, “The Hayseeds ’ It
follows the conventions of new-style Aus-
tralian drama, Roy Redgrave this time
being the Dad who is fast getting stereo-
typed. The other players were mostly those
in “While the Billy Boils,” Walter Cornock
and Pearl Helmrich having much the same
courtship—with subsequent domestic devel-
opments—as there. . Margaret Gordon is a
comfortable Mum, and Tom Cannam lets
himself go in the way of farce. The stoiy
is genuinely Australian, with its pictures of
the slaves to Cow, the quarrel of neighbors
over straying Cow, and the reconciliation
when all hands are called in to help at a
bushfire on the land of one of the quarrei-
lers. The'film is to be trimmed down a bit
before being “released.”
Paul Rubens, composer of “Miss Hook of
Holland,” passed out in London the other
day. He was a useful man to have about
the premises, able to write libretto, music
and lyrics—an unusual bloque in these days
when it mostly takes 15 people to manu-
facture a musical play. Rubens was for
some time engaged to marry the toothsome
Phyllis Dare; but his doctors warned him
that marriage would not be a fair thing, so
the engagement was ended.
“Whiskers” Ward’s daughter Betty has
scored a success in London in “Poached
Eggs and Pearls,” a comedy satirising the
war-time activities of the Bull aristocracy,
put on at the Apollo. All the newspapers
have somethig kind to say of the Aus-
tralian girl.
“Chudah” : I’ve just seen Strunin’s num-
erous Yiddish company in “Joseph and His
Brethren,” on the small stage of Melbourne
Temperance Hall. This is the third version
of Joe that has been presented in Mel-
bourne. The first was the Rev. George
Walters’s “Joseph of Canaan,” played by
Rignold, and in my opinion the best of the
trio, although the fool censor barred it in
holy London. The Potiphar business was
only mildly suggested by Walters, not made
the very hub of the drama as with knight
Beerbohm Tree’s version, which the censor
passed with a bow. Yet Tree’s show was
only put on for a nauseously sensual scene
between Joe and Mrs. P.—a little affair
which Strunin’s players keep almost at
arm’s length.
“Pyro”: “M.P.A.” (B. 25/1/T7) is in
error in referring to the Hobart contributor
of topical items to the Australian Film
Gazette as “admittedly an amateur.” As
a matter of fact, Herbert Wyndham, the
man in question, dates a professional experi-
ence back to 1898. He came from the Smoke
with Snazelle and that excellent bio. show,
“Our Navy,” in 1900, and has done photo
work in England, “the East,” M.L. and four
of the Aus. States. He says that for artistic
results give him Tasmanian light every time,
and he wonders why Hobart’s admirable
scenic advantages for film drama have been
so far overlooked by producers.
“C. Ockney”: London playgoers have
come into their own again. After a long
experience of nasal twang and Bowery slang
they are revelling in the Cockney “London
Pride,” written by Gladys Unger and Neil
Lyons, the latter one of the humorists of
Robert Blatchford’s Clarion, author of
“Arthurs.” etc. This is Lyons’s first
attempt at a full-length play, though various
one-act pieces of his have been staged. The
West End has taken this East End story
to its heart even as it embraced Chevalier’s
New-Cut Coster in the long ago. In the
part of the hero, the drawing-room Gerald
du Maurier astonished the natives by his
clobber and his lingo as a young Cockney
greengrocer-soldier, who will probably find
he’s related to “Ginger Mick.”
“Yarra Ben” : The J. C. Williamson firm
is featuring in Melbourne Theatre Royal
bills its latest ’Murkan star (Miss Rock-
well) in something called “The Misleading
Lady.” Well. I wouldn’t go quite so far
as that myself. But doubtless J.C.W. Ltd.
knows its own business best.
Laurette Taylor, whose husband, J.
Hartley Manners, wrote the money-factory
known' as “Peg o’ My Heart,” is now play-
ing lead in “The Harp of Life” at N. Y.
Globe. The theme of the Manners “Harp”
is mother-love, and it seems to be very bad
Manners indeed, for one critic debits it with
“the worst last act in captivity.” It is so
sentimental that even flappers and maiden-
aunts find it cloying.
U.S.A. film censors are limiting the dura-
tion of the picture kiss. Pennsylvania allows
an eight-foot impression. Ohio and Kansas
think 10ft. liberal. In Vermont 15ft. is
allowed ; for anything beyond that there is
a heavy fine. The Australian censorship has
had its attention drawn to these American
enactments.
Such osculation as is slow
Gives Mrs. Grundy moral pain.
A kiss of half a foot or so
Should meet all needs. If any show
Demands a heavy kissing strain
The pros, must cut and come again.
In these tolerant days a player doesn’t
often get the bird, or hook, or whatever it
is; but Gertrude Elliott, sister of Maxine,
and wife of Forbes Robertson, has had it
in a London music-hall. She was reciting,
to a musical accompaniment, a subtle and
soulful poem of Oscar Wilde’s ; and the gal-
lery didn’t think it suitable to the surround-
ings, and signified the same in the unusual
manner."
Ada Ferrar, the auburn-haired actress
who shared with Julius Knight the limelight
in the first Australian production of “The
Sign.” is appearing in the hardy perennial,
“Charley’s Aunt” —its hundred-and-oneth
revival—at London St. James’s. Ada, whose
name isn’t often seen in programmes now,
is the aristocratic', well-preserved Donna
Lucia from Brazil, where the other nuts
come from.
“Ami” : After all, the women I like best
are the actresses who amuse me. So I want
to see them happy. Modern tradition orders
that none of them are to have children, or
possibly they may be allowed to have just
one over-dressed doll apiece. Nobody must
be programmed as “Mrs.” I think our
view hasn’t changed for the better. In
Coppin’s first Melbourne company there was
not one “Miss”; nor was there) in the
first bill of the ancient Theatre Royal. The
actresses of those days might be as married
as they pleased and have as many children as
they liked. The drama of to-day, centring
at hectic New York, is too much the young
feminine. Every play is wreathed around
a young and beautiful woman whose “day”
lasts but a year or so. Moliere’s best soie
brette and ingdnue, Miss Brie, was 60. When
she once appeared as an old woman, the
indignant pit shouted, “What are you giv-
ing us, child? Go back!” And she, had to.
William G. James, a Melbourne Conserva-
torium young man, seems to have got a foot-
ing in London’s very naicest musical circle.
James is a pianist and composer. Lately he
wrote the music for a ballet which was de-
signed and produced (at her own expense)
by Lady Lowther. Beecham’s orchestra was
engaged, the dancers were the best
people available, and a high-priced audience
included a few duchesses. Princess Henry
of Battenburg is said to have requested a
repetition of the fashionable performance on
February 16, but how much of the success
of this ballet is due to the Australian com-
poser and how much is owing to Lady
Lowther’s social influence doesn't* appear on
the face of the reports. W. G. James is evi-
dently not going to be a poor, struggling,
neglected musician, anyhow.
“Ah Gee”: Gagging ? According to all
the evidence, Shakspeare got his start as a
playwright by touching up old plays. Pro-
bably, therefore, Bill’d greet Allan Wilkie
as a man and brother, and invite him down
to the Mermaid to discuss a pint and the
numerous woes (including critics) that afflict
the actor-manager. There was no pose about
Bill. He never belonged to a Shakspeare
Society.
■ “Stargazer”: Annette Kellerman had
always a violent contempt for clothes. Show-
ing in one of Bland Holt’s tank dramas in
Melbourne, she gave the gifted management
sore uneasiness by reason of her persistent
efforts to peel off the little that Bland con-
sidered essential in a respectable family
drama. “You’ll see!” said Annette. “One of
these days I’ll show in my waterproof.”
Annette’s “waterproof” was her own raw
hide, and she has got down to it all right.
But the Annette who showed at Melbourne
Aquarium and Princes Court was a very
different mermaid. Then her figure was far
too much here and there. She has dimin-
ished it so marvellously that I regard my
old friend as the very embodiment of a self-
made woman.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
Apropos Sliiel Barrj', killed in action (B.
18/1/T7). The first Sliiel Barry was, in private,
Andrew Donohoe, who lived with his parents in
Phillip-street, Sydney; he was thought to be a
native, but is understood to have come to Australia
in infancy. As a lad he was stage.-struek, and
appeared at private theatres in Sussex-street and
other parts of Sydney. The late W. H. Ford, who
died in Fitzroy (Melb.) a few months ago, saw that
Andy had some talent, trained him in Irish parts,
took him on tour and christened him by the
Irish name which he afterwards bore. Ford told
this writer that he saw the two names in some
newspaper, fitted them together, and sent Andy on
his way. The father objected to the son’s theatrical
fancies, and banished him his house. Ford then
sheltered him until success was achieved. Shiel
Barry (dropping the Donohoe altogether), after sue-
cessfully touring Australia and M.L., made his way
to England, and appeared in the provinces in Irish
drama; he played with Lady Don in Liverpool, and
presntly undertook the study of the Miser in “Les
Cloches de Corneville.” Notwithstanding all that
W. H. Ford had done for him, Shiel Barry, in his
prosperity, neglected the old man —failed even to
answer letters addressed to him in England at a
time when a little fiscal assistance would have saved
his old mentor much trouble.
Harry Lauder recently drew nearly £lOOO
for a week’s work in Manchester, and his
cut of the gate for six days in Glasgow
amounted to £1635.
Robert Courtneidge was about to present
Harry Lauder in a new Scottish revue at
the Shaftesbury, London, when the last mail
was leaving. Ivy Shilling is in the cast.
“Jwosp”: Sydney Telegkapii was not
much too soon in killing the wife of Djon
Boucicault. A few weeks after the false
report the “Pocket Venus” went out. That
was in the first days of November. By the
way, her last appearance in regular work
was ' with her husband in “The Colleen
Bayvn,” but she didn’t play Eily O’Connor
as she did when the play first appeared and
established the “world’s longest run,” 231
performances. She finished up by being
Mrs. Cregan in 1896.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Murkah”: The outbreak of war found
Australia short of competent wireless opera-
tors. The training of recruits for this im-
portant branch of the Defence system is ■
mostly left to Private Enterprise, in the form
of correspondence colleges. Exorbitant fees are
charged by these harpies for courses which
are' in most cases only extracts from text-
books that can be bought cheaply at almost
any bookseller’s. In any case, wireless can-
not be taught by correspondence, any more
than blacksmitliing can. A State school-
teacher is sharply judged by results, but cor-
respondence colleges are allowed to skip gaily
ahead without any check. Time after time,
when employed in the Commonwealth Radio
Service, I have seen their pupils fail inglori-
ously. One disappointed lad told me that
he had paid £lO in fees. Compared with
this, bookmaking is honest toil. The teach-
ing of wireless should be a matter for the
Navy Wireless Department, when students,
instead of cramming with useless theory,
would get practical instruction from prac-
tical men.
* * * *
“Nowthen”: The meanest man on earth
suddenly came to light recently in Tasmania.
He had fallen from a ladder, and a Good
Samaritan who found him unconscious con-
veyed him to a doctor. When Sawbones in
due course sent in the bill the party who had
been repaired refused to pay, although the
Municipal Council, his employer, had given
him substantial compensation. On being
haled to court he pleaded that the responsi-
bility of payment was not his —that, as he
did not go to the doctor knowingly and of
his own free will, it was not on him but on
the man who deposited him on the medico’s
premises. The Bench soon cleared his mind
of that delusion, and now the entire popula-
tion is waiting for. him to fall off another
ladder.
“Arden Hill”: Cow-barons are sticking
out their chests, for Blossom with distended
milk veins, complacently chewing the cud
amid knee-deep clover pastures, is one of the
best investments going. The price of milk
in N. S. Wales has been maintained at lOd.
per gallon throughout a prolific seasoa -
Down Illawarra and Shoalhaven way a £lOO
cheque for the month excites no envy among
the cockies, and £l5O is regarded as “fair,’
while in a few cases over £2OO has been
drawn. On the North Coast it is still better,
one dairy-farmer being credited with £-> >O.
Of course, it all depends upon the size of the
herd, the rainfall, the green grass growing
all round, and the capacity of Blossoms
temperance bar.
“F.W.W.”: Can anyone, pirate or mer-
chant, tell me why that burglarious idea
known as the “draft” on wool is still
allowed? Buyers claim lib. per hundred-
weight as “draft,” which works out this year
at about 4s. per bale —the price of the pack.
Safe to say that the aggregate of this rob-
bery will run to £BOO,OOO this season. Who
gets it? The wool “pool” should abolish
this impost on growers, or collar it to pay
exes.
* * * *
“Germicide”: At the bidding of The Only
Girl in the World I bought a very special
sort of English confectionery, the other day,
and found one side of the box decorated with
the German eagle. Underneath was the
pathetic inscription: “As prepared in Ger-
many.” If that is how the proud English-
man is setting out to capture the Hun s
trade, may the Lord help him! The world
won’t. It will buy the original Hun article
again the minute it is available.
* * * *
“Snell”: We had hiked over 20 miles on a
Sheol of a day, and the sea looked good to
us. The one thoroughly-secluded place was
occupied by a scoundrel who looked like a
composite of all the Yank tramps I had met
with in 30 years of vaudeville. We wanted
that swim, but most of us had portable valu-
ables, and in addition we were fully alive to
the. value of clothes to us, situated as we
were. “I wouldn’t trust him with the only
trousers I’ve got to go home in,” said Howe,
“even if they didn’t hold all the money I ve
got in the world.” We debated the matter.
“Trust them,” said Mcßryde. “Show these
men you have confidence in them, and your
goods are as right as if they were in a safe
deposit.” He took out his gold watch and
chain, he produced a wad of money, and
presently he approached the stranded beat,
dangling a collection knotted in his handker-
chief. “Will you be so good as to take
care of these for me while I am in the
water?” he said. We accused Mcßryde of
idiocy, but he appeared to enjoy his swim.
He was not greatly concerned even when
Melville cried : “There he goes !” and pointed
to the tramp swarming up the steep sea-
wall, like a distracted cat. “Let him go. ■
said Mcßryde. “Poor fellow, he will feel
this more than we do.” “But your money
your watch!” “They’re all there in my
pockets,” he replied. “There’s half a page
of the Hekald, three shells and two iron
nuts in that handkerchief.”
WORTH WHILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is work to do and bills to paj r
(Ah, Rose went by me without a smile!)
And a something within me seems to say:
“There is nothing left in the world worth while!"
There is work, alas! And it must be done,
In spite of Rose in her snows arrayed,
And money to win, and it must be won,
And bills to pay, and they must be paid.
If I were a bird on the top of a tree,
I’d sing, and sing, till I woke the earth;
But I couldn't kiss Rose, and she wouldn’t kiss me,
So what would the tiling’s of the world be worth?
It isn’t the lack of gold that pains,
Or bills in legion that make me moan,
Or Toil the slaver, with tyrant chains,
But Rose —it is Rose and Rose alone!
Oh, the hardest task were a pleasure to do,
And things—all things—in (he world worth
while,
And money were plenty, and bills were few,
If Rose but smiled with her magical smile.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The New Sun for the Whole World
THE BEAR : “Shut up,
you Fool. That’s not
the Sun ; it’s a B.T.H.
MAZDA LAMP! ’’
s^'
df
hdf
“ Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
city Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
-/(gents-
‘Mazda House, 5
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.)': Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering- Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


toilet Gifts
r-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Shoe Hook, Lift and
Glove Hook, in Silk-lined Morocco Case, 8/6.
With Shoe Lift and Button Hook only, 7/6.
A. Saunders’ Handkerchief Box, pure Silver-plated, Ai
quality, hand engraved, “Ribbon” design, with lock and key, Silk
lined, £3/10/-
Glove Box, to match, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Perfume
Bottle, plain,
Solid Silver Mount,
Crystal Cut Glass
Bottle, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver
Photo Frame, hand burnished,
plain design, Imperial size,
£2/10/-
Cabinet size, 25/-
855?
k-
ilMiiimnirauifflm
A, Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, 5 pieces,
hand burnished, plain design, 457-
Other styles, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/- '
S=2
tk.
ms#/
k
wm
ass
y
-Srr,
iTWa
S
-CTCpriy
ini' I aStr
1
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Toilet Set, comprising
Lady’s Brush, Mirror and Comb, plain design, in „ Silk-lined
Case, £3/3/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney, opp s ta tfolr ay
A. Saunders’ Silver-plated Purse, beautifully bur-
nished, “Ribbon” design, with chain handle, inner frame
nicely lined, 21/-; plain, 15/6.
Solid Silver, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-, up to £5.
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar, hand engraved.
Pure Silver-plated Lid. Crystal fluted Glass Jar,
5/6.
Others, 7/6, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, “Ribbon”
design, with lock and key, silk lined, 35/-
Other styles, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
/j*
$E
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing*
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
llow to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen tiie
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
■Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted.' Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
8d How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/. posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
m
m
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 p6st. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to VaXip on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Gaines), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping. 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-'. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang o*
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, .1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, I/- posted. The Waybaces. 1/2.
All these B'ices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want l J ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
vour cash. D(r-Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
+
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
II- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete). 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney <only>


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOII THEATIIE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
TIVOLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
1 EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE PASSING SHOW.
SYDNEY JAMES, MADELINE ROSSITER, GWEN
LEWIS, W. G. DESMOND, GEORGE GRAYSTONE,
CONNIE MILNE and WINIFRED LEVIERE.
Also FRANK MARKLEY, ROSE and DELL, Mdlle.
LINGARDE, VAUDE and VERNE, ANZAC the
SOLDIER DOG.
Plan at Glen’s.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY, including
FLORENCE YOUNG, in the London and New York
Brilliant Success,
THE PINK LADY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pALACE THEATR E, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. T A IT’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
BARRY LTJPINO as “EDDIE.”
Smartest and Brightest of Musical Comedy Successes.
NLY TWO WORDS—RUT WHAT READ
JOY.
WIIIT E Cl T Y
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darlingliurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE SMAIIT SET
(from LONDON).
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
hdf
Triangle plays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
Eli MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
H E A T R E ROYAL, .MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 24.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the epoch-
making Picture Spectacle,
INTOLERANCE.
Prices as usual.
RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 24.
First appearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
THE RIVALS.
Popular Prices.
ING’S THEATRE. M E LBOURN E.
Lessees.... Messrs. BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
SATURDAY NEXT.
For the First Time in Australia.
J. St N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY COMPANY in
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A Play of Mirth and Morals
by Winchell Smith and John E. Hazzard.
Box Plan Allan’s.
The finest show at st. kilda,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, 8.30.
DANDfES.
BEST COMEDIANS. BEST SINGING.
The Prices, like the Dandies, are Popular.
I*HE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
William Fox presents Australia’s Perfect Woman,
ANNETTE KELLERMANN,
in his Million-dollar Spectacle,
A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS.
“THE PICTURE BEAUTIFUL.”
2—PERFORMANCES DAILY—2.
Plan at Allan’s.
I R C H & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Hud Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
FU LL E K’S HOTEL,, MELBOURNE
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. -200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, February, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of 20,000
superficial feet of Teak Timber for
the Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
'TENDERS are invited, subject to the conditions of
* tendering, until 2.30 p.m. Friday, 9th March,
1917, for the supply of 20,000 superficial feet of
Teak Timber to the Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
Tender form, specifications, etc., may be obtained
on application to the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; General Manager, Common-
wealth Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney;
and at the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birkenhead
(S.A.), Fremantle and Ilobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Teak Timber
for Stock, Cockatoo Island,” on top left-hand corner
of envelope and addressed to the Director of Navy
Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne, or the Director of
Navy Contracts, care of one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed form,
which can be obtained as above.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
liusinesH Announcements.
hdf
A £l4 Machine
Drawers, £8 lOj.
15 Years' Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—■
4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box IGIO. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
lias accommodation for 300'Guests. S : >crT'
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Ra .r
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Aid
matic Telephones and Electric Ileate -
throughout. Visitors have the preference oi
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, m
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
t>er day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH. Manager.
%!
KPS
} y
He
Sfo*t f3a£y v
Jaunty littfay&mejdL'*
CL CQTrUina&en UrcUL fioitny <
ftatiet. fktvCtifa Tha&Ud TtUlk.
iutt ttwdtfu UfiC cfyeuMkMll
eUwuy4, p%£-emimers \
a 4 ijj& &dm& fiaty IfmU.
(o\itSz faSaMp&.Sctullnx
26jamue4<m St f Sydney Jf.S.W
•?
S-
V (
rH
1
i
I
T
|$
I .Your
Aim? e
Then have a JHOT
at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
(LOCAL
w
POST FREE FOR. TWENTY SHILLINGS
20|-
POST FREE.
hdf
hdf
THE
Miner’s Watch
The tiny particles of coal dust or
grit—which make an ordinary
watch useless for the Miner—
cannot get into the movement of
this Watch. The Case is made of
polished Nickel with SCREW
FRONT —fitted with stout crystal
glass. The movement is splendidly
made, with Compensation Balance
and Brequet Hair Spring, and is
positively dust and damp proof.
We have supplied hundreds of
Miners and Workers in Quarries
with these watches, and every
watch is giving thorough satisfac-
tion.
Price 20/- Post Free.
Write for Our Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND CORNER,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
h
S3OHS
A3S3V
Are made not only for smart
appearance but for comfort, long
wear and all-round satisfaction.
Our catalog illustrates many of the
popular styles in Abbey footwear,
and will be mailed free to any
address upon request.
We illustrate a special Golf Shoe
in Choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 32/6
Light Soles, 30/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street, \
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
dfh
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
%
THE FAMOUS
AMERICAS STANDARD FOUR-CYCU DIGINE
KbrmaxH
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
Made by Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
. See one of these engines working.
It will convince you ; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of these qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OR CALL AT
Motor Showrooms: 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AIiABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in AuituU*.


HOYT’S PICTORES
Two features every night. 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
“A contented mind is a continual feast” —you get
both when you drink Martell’s Brandy. There are
no better judges than Britons, and they decide in
favor of Martell’s every time. From George I. to
George V. Martell’s has been supreme —not only the
favorite in England but in France as well. It is
superior for social purposes, and being rich in the
higher ethers is also unequalled in cases of sick-
ness.'
MARTELL’S BRANDY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715. [1
S t-ND FOR
CATALOGUE
DDJ/DNS AND
f/fZ/ZZ /NFOJ2MAT/ON
r-
msrm/m/foMES
• ERECTED COMPLETE /INViV/iEREx\
WCKSfw
3m;
X
sv«
253
SB
bjs
«*.v-
Pwfi
>:/
a«s:
Th/s Bungalow. No. SB. Des/gn. conLa/n/ng 4 Large
rooms, yft i/erancfaEs. Lat/nc/ry &EafE, erectecZ & pa/nLecr
for £357. BonaF/de
Bu/Zc/ens onZy emyZoyeof.
ffio.Mso/? ssSonlm
T/MBEJ? ME/PCMANTS. &£'DFEBfiL
POLICAL
POINTS
News item (15/2/’l7) :
Mr. Cook stated that there were still a few minor
details to be fixed up in connection with the coali-
tion.
It is understood that amongst them is the
business of the country.
By the grace of the leader of the former
Liberal Opposition, Hughes is going to
London, after all. Cook’s tourist.
“The Party game.” Not it! No party
ever was.
Everybody must be thankful that a Win-
the-War Party has been formed. Of course
there were many difficulties to overcome.
There was the question whether Hughes or
Cook would be the Prime Minister most
likely to advance the Allies along the road to
Berlin, and when that was decided a doubt
arose as to which would prove more discon-
certing to Von Hindenburg—a majority of
Cookites in the Cabinet or of Hughesites?
After much earnest and disinterested con-
sideration, the decision was reached that a
team comprising six followers of Cook and
five supporters of Hughes would do most
towards wrecking Potsdam’s hopes. But
the most important decision, from a war-
A CHEERY PROSPECT.
ODEST SUITOR: “I have only four hundred
a year, sir, but I think I can sairport
your daughter on that.”
FATHER ( enthusiastically ): “Support her,
my dear boy! Why, you can support
her entire family on it.”
winning point of view, is that none of
Hughes’s friends are to be opposed at the
elections by any of Cook’s cobbers, or vice
versa. Falkenhayn regards this as a cruel
blow.
The British Government has notified the
Commonwealth Government that it is willing
to employ 1000 Australian carpenters on
war work, and will send a transport for
them. Of course, no anti-conseriptionist will
offer to go. That would be taking away the
few men left, and there would be no one
available to defend the country !
One way of winning the war is to kick
those who have been giving a hand to win
it. That, no doubt, is why Hughes, who is
particularly keen on winning the war, formed
the first two branches of his new anti-Labor
party in the electorates of two Labor men
who went away in khaki, arid are still'away
—Ozanne (Corio) and McGrath (Ballarat).
“Women’s influence is very marked,” says
an England-in-wartime writer. So: —
England henspeckeds that every man will do his
duty.
THE ONLY WAY.
REGINALD : “I say — aw — boy, is this the
right way to yet to the — er—bally trans-
port?”
B OY: “ Blime , no —the right way’s in khaki,
Guv’nor!”
Labor has nominated a young Welshman
named Davies to contest the Wollongong
(N.S.W.) seat against J. B. Nicholson, who
committed the heinous offence of calling on
Australians to help defend their country.
Davies is a new chum who in five years has
talked his way to the front among the Illa-
warra miners. Nicholson is one of the
founders of the Labor party and will pro-
bably fight for his seat: but Wol-
longong is regarded as a safe
P.L.L. electorate. The party
expects a lot from Davies. It
expected a lot from another im-
ported leek and is getting the
full flavor now
Peter Bowling, one of the
selected N.S.W. Labor candi-
dates for the Senate, gets a use-
ful lift through being appointed
“general political organiser” for
three months. That will give
him a chance of placing himself
before the electors. Senator
Allan McDougall was secretary
of the Sydney Eight Hours
Demonstration Committee when
he was selected as a Labor can-
didate. The committee, as loyal
Laborites, immediately saw the
necessity of having a country
organiser to introduce Eight
Hour Art Union tickets all over
the State. So Jack Travers
(now M.L.C.) looked after the secretarial
work while McDougall toured the State.
When he topped (he score at the elections,
the Eight Hour committeemen felt that they
had not art unioned in vain.
“Naturally,” says McGirr, who is hustling
to the front of the N. S. Wales State Labor
party—“naturally the cry will be anti-con-
scription versus conscription.” Naturally!
The antis had a large majority in the refer-
endum vote in N. S. Wales; therefore,
though the State Parliament has nothing
whatever to do with military service, anti-
conscription looks a good cry with which to
go to the State electors. But it is just
as dishonest, and just as undemocratic, as
the old plan of raising the sectarian ghost for
election purposes. The man who cries
“Fire!” in order to create a panic and pica
a few pockets is in the same class.
Cook as Naval Minister recalls Gilbert’s
friend. Smith the bookseller, as Lord of the
Queen’s Navee. Joseph’s chief contribution
to naval literature thus far has been a mas-
terly criticism of the value of the “River”
class of boats —the then-unbuilt Yarra,
Parramatta, etc.—for patrolling creeks and
billabongs. But as Cook is to be Acting-
prime Minister whiltr Irvine takes Hughes to
England on the chain, it was judged best to
give him a smallish portfolio ; hence the Navy
job.
Maoriland’s experiments with .an Indus-
try Efficiency Board are going to be worth
watching. The idea is to move labor round
and generally organise things. This fol-
lows a considerable amount
of talk about “harnessing
the country for war-time
efficiency.” Words like
these are all right, of
course, but up to the pre-
sent The Bulletin has
not heard of the Board
starting to put any har-
ness on the employer who
is making wicked war-time
profits. While it is put-
ting a crupper on one ani-
mal it had better try a
martingale on the other.
Our industries have to
compete with the for-
eigners, and they can’t do
it if light and power, for
instance, are extravagantly
dear. Labor isn’t the Only
element in production.
The Corio (Vic.) Anti-
Conscription League no
doubt helped to hasten
Hughes’s announcement of
his new fiscal feelings by
declaring him to be “a. pro-
nounced Freetrader quite
unfitted to represent a Pro-
tectionist community at a
conference.” Five days
later he admitted that lie
had been “under a delu-
sion,” that Australia ought
to produce “manufactured
goods on a prodigious
scale” and that “the con-
trol of home industry is
the foundation of foreign
trade.” It was very vague,
non-committal talk. There
was no defined policy in it.
There was no mention of the word “tariff.”
Holman shows no contrition for his sins
of borrowing and booming. On the con-
trary, he asserts that the millions spent on
railway duplications are already yielding 9
per cent, and the other millions spent on
equipment are “almost equally profitable.”
Also the return “would increase rather than
diminish.” After which Holman accuses
himself of being something that The
Bulletin wouldn’t like to call him by
declaring that his surplus in 1915 was
£420,000 and in 1916 only £149,000, while
this year, though he hoped for something,
“the situation was very much more difficult.”
If these new loan moneys are earning 9 per
cent, and the return is increasing rather than
diminishing, lioio. is the situation becoming
“very much more difficult”?
The Shandy Government has a new
scheme for settling strikes in N. S. Wales
and also leaving them unsettled. Unions
may either strike or “enjoy the benefits” of
arbitration ; if they decide to rely on strik-
ing they must give 21 days’ notice and take
a secret ballot. Under the present law
striking within 10, 20 or any other number
of days is illegal; yet strikes have happened
every day of the year. One of the things
Holman didn’t explain was how he was
going to stop unions from breaking the new
law any more than the old one. The new
law can’t make striking without notice any
more illegal than it is to-day.
The private grabber of unearned incre-
ment has just had a small innings in Tas-
mania. The State has spent a few hundred
thousand pounds in encouraging the Amal-
gamated Zinc Co. to go in for electrolytic
spelter-making; and a few speculators col-
lared the surrounding country and without
doing a stroke of work themselves are now
farming it out at three and four times the
price they paid for it. Governments are
quite satisfied, as a rule, that there shouldn't
be any such things as war profits. But
peace profits made out of other people's in-
dustry are just as immoral.
Lynch is the one man of Hughes’s team
who put himself in the public eye without
struggling to do it. As Minister in charge
of Works, one of the Departments in which
there has been the most appalling waste, he
showed himself a level-headed administrator
with ideals and a spine. Apparently the
complication was fatal. Anyway, he is
dropped.
Joe Ward, Maoriland’s “Wizard of
Finance,” is at it again. In London the
other day he orated about a Mighty Navy:
Excluding Indig and the Crown colonies, a con-
tribution of 10s. per capita on the 60 million people
involved would give £3O/000,000 a year, which, in
normal times, would provide the payment of inter-
est and sinking fund on a sum of 500 millions for
the establishment of a great Empire Navy, which
would be powerful to check every combination of
enemies.
Borrow, borrow, borrow! The simple plan
of spending the £80,000,000 a year on con-
struction instead of on interest and sinking
fund is far too prosaic for a man with
lOU’s on the brain. He must always spend
first and earn afterwards.
The bait of the West Sydnev seat, which
is a well-fortified stronghold for the Labor
man who gets it, sorely tempted McGirr.
M.L.A., to renounce his selection for Yass
and try for Hughes’s old waterside nest.
Hughes, of course, won’t look that way
again. On the other hand, Yass seems a
doubtful proposition for Labor next elec-
tions. Last time a big navvy vote made a
lot of difference; but Holman can’t swing
that pick this time. And lie wouldn’t swing
it for Labor even if he could. McCrystal.
president of the Wharfies, will probably
succeed Hughes, who was their secretary.
STAGE VERSUS BOX OFFICE.
“I can bring tears to the eyes of the
audience."
"Damn the tears! What we want is a bloke
to bring the audience!”
CHINA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Morning Post states that China will hand the
Herman Minister his passports on Saturday.— Cable.
Out of the ancient land a voice is heard,
No cringing note of servitude and fear,
Hut the plain, downright, straight, emphatic word,
That he who hides or runs or fights may hear.
New China, in her late-found liberty,
Speaks her first world-loud word for decency.
No wealth of frowning cannon can she boast,
No mustering armies eager for the fray,
No ships of steel patrol her ancient coast,
• No lust is hers to ravish, loot or slay :
But she has met the Teuton ’mid her foes,
Tasted his kultured mercy—and she knows.
Wilhelm and frightfulness together rage;
But, distant, eyes with surest sight may see.
China, aloof, apart, has found his gauge,
And scents afar the Allied victory.
From the red war and all its pains exempt,
She tosses Bill the cabbage of contempt.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
CENSURE.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
“Senator Pearce declined to give up the Defence
portfolio, because it would mean censure on his
administration.”
He clung with tooth and nail to place and pay.
Why should he shift who through war’s distant roar
Had crowned wild nmddlement from day to day,
Whisp’ring behind a closed and bolted door
His orders to the censor? Why should lie
Yield place or cash in this emergency?
To yield might look like censure! All the land
Had poured its censure on him hour by hour,
Cursing the swollen head and feeble hand
That robbed a nation of its force and power.
Yet he remained, behind the censor’s screen,
Master of our unmastered war machine.
No man believed in him. Troops came and went.
Enlistments dwindled, though the cost increased.
The war raged on. A people’s blood was spent.
He did not seem to, worry in the least;
Though round him still the mocking chorus woke
That hailed him as a mild, expensive joke.
The Referendum taught all jaws to swing.
The land grew wild with rhetoric and appeal;
And in the greenness of the budding spring
Were party wounds that none could staunch or heal.
The No recorded, after battle fierce,
In most men’s reckoning was plain “No to Pearce !”
At last the heavy boot, so long delayed,
Swung to the kicking on a hefty toe ;
And still he clung to office, much afraid
’Twould look like censure if he had to g 0....
So well he pleaded that they let him stay
To face a larger boot another day.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


PALING’S SUCCESS
has been Continuous
for Over 63 Years.
1
I
of our Honest methods in selling
instruments of the best quality only we
Have gained the confidence of thousands of
buyers in Australia wHo Have obtained tHeir
Pianos or Player Pianos from us.
Tone-quality and Durability are distinctive
features of all our Pianos and Player Pianos.
They are immensely popular because of tHeir
superior musical features, tone-quality, and
tHeir dependability.
Catalogues free. Please write for one.
We Sell on
Time Payment
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD
338 George Street, Sydney.
Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore and Toowoomba.
y
BnV/.
SALTLICKS,
m
rrrmM&sr.
Cream Fats increased 15
per cent, in a fortnight.
That was the experience of ONE user of Leslie Salt Licks (Mr.
George Robb, of Tyagarah). There are many similar instances
showing that producers MAKE MORE PROFITS by “Salting”
their stock with
mm,
mm
LESLIE
Salt Licks
Leslie Salt is the purest salt in the world, plus phosphates and
other medicinal ingredients. It aids digestion—every ounce your
animals eat ensures nutrition.
Leslie Licks are always clean and wholesome. They cannot sweat
and harbor germs. They are a safeguard against infection—
prevent Redwater, Tubercolosis, etc.
JUST AS GOOD FOR HORSES AND SHEEP.
On weight alone Leslie Licks LAST SIX TIMES AS LONG AS
ROCK SALT. One lick lasts one animal 4 months. Made in 51b
blocks compressed into marble-like hardness. They resist the
action of weather-there is NO WASTE.
21- per block or 22/6 per case 1 doz.
Write direct to—
Agents for /V.S.IV. and Queensland
ROBERT LITTLE (SL CO.,
lO CASTL&REAGH STREET jYONEk !
Or to the agents for Victoria, Tasmania, S.A. and I Y,A,:
HOLLAND PTY. LTD.,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
/
df
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
You must have noticed what ardent
enthusiasts its owners are.
This does not happen here and
there. It is a universal con-
dition. People believe in the car,
admire it, and say so, frankly.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage Is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers. Detroit
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Canada Cycle & Motor Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne.
Messrs. Cheney Motor Company, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Messrs. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Messrs. Co-operative Motors, Ltd.,
Hobart.
Messrs. Magnus. Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington.
Mr. George Henning,
Auckland.
Mr. Newton King,
New Plymouth.
Messrs. Hawkes, Ltd.,
Christchurch.
Messrs. Cossens & Black, Ltd.,
Dunedin.
Mr. P. H. Vickery,
Invercargill.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
Missing Friends.
THOMAS B. KERIN, last heard of
Hughenden, Q., please write Mother.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES &CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LIfUTED, Redfern, Sydney,
COPPER AND ALUMINUM
kitchen utensils take on a
cheerful newness when
polished with
hdf
hdf
hf
dh
fd
a
KING OP
METAL POLISH
The wonder working,
safest and quickest of all polishes.
Two si ze cans at all Grocery, Hardware
and Drug Stores. Look for the Photo on can.
A representative of
Turnbull & Jones Ltd., New Zealand,
Patentees and Makers of Totalisator,
will arrive in Sydney, on March 6, with SAMPLE MACHINES
embodying latest improvements.
Racing Clubs are advised that representative will supply full information
regarding Totalisator and the system of operation.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The totalisator made its debut in N. S.
Wales on Wednesday of last week at Ivembla Grange.
It was one of the “jam-tin” implements favored by
Education Minister James—one of those contrap-
tions which leave the punter to do his own arithmetic
if lie wants to know the total of the investments.
The Bulletin has already pointed out that this type
of machine is no use for Sydney, and the Kembla
Grange experience supports that'view. The public
contemplated the affair without enthusiasm. The
tickets were 10s. and 5s. —an absurd arrangement
to Start with—and at the close of the day £790 15s.
had been One bookmaker alone did twice
as much. Net result: To the State, taking into
account the loss on betting-tickets, less than £5O;
to the racing club, less than £2O. How much was
leffiy after paying somebody to drag the jam-tin round
and somebody else to work it' this page has not
found out. This way of running the business is
plain foolery and 4 more than justifies the remarks
made by this paper about the manner in which the
business has been handled. Ike had more amusement
at Kembla Grange than he had been having for a
long time, and nearly all through he out-bid the
machine.
“Pungawerewere” : The first totalisator, I
believe, in Australasia; —certainly the first in Maori-
land—l saw in 1880. It was a model, a neat little
machine with a white enamelled face, and was
owped by a foreigner, Siegfried Franck. This was
on the Auckland Racing Club’s course at Ellerslie—
or, |to be strictly accurate, the totalisator was not
on the course, since Franck could not get a permit
from the club fm the maghinq, and was obliged,
therefore, to stand outside the few stone wall which
at that time formed the boundary of a piece of
waste ground behind the grandstand, and far away
from the track of traffic. His machine he propped
up on top of the stone wall; and there he registered
a few bets ..from some of the people who, from
motives of curiosity, walked over to see the new toy.
Meanwhile, the spinning-jc-nny and the other games
tolerated on racecourses in those days went on merrily
in full view of the exile, a fact which prompted
Franck to bitter reflections. “They allow the thieves
and robbers on t.he course,” he protested to his
visitors, and to the circumambient air when he had
no visitors, “but my absolutely fair machine they
insist must remain outside!” Franck hawked this
first totalisator all over Maori-land, but none of the
racing men of that day could see the pots of money
to be made out of the machine until he took it to
Christchurch and showed it to G. G. Stead. That
shrewd head at once realised its. advantages, and
persuaded the Canterbury Jockey Club to give it a-
trial at Riccarton. The net profit to the C.J.C. from
its use that year was £l3O ; now the figures run far
into the thousands. Old Franck, I suppose, has been
dead these many years; but nowadays, when I read
the letter of “Pro Bono Publico” to the newspapers
complaining of the enormity of investing such vast
sums in the totalisator, I think vividly of the- sad-
old man who was banished that afternoon out-
side the stone wall.
* * * *
“Trot”: When the machine gets into its
stride in N. S. Wales a vast amount of ink is going
to be shed in comparing odds offered by the mechani-
cal regulator and by Ike, with particular reference to
what would have been annexed by punters if the
horfee that won had done something else and if
various mokes that didn’t win had struck the line
first. Now, all comparisons of this kind are as
futile as trying to shave with a wheelbarrow. When
the breathless punter goes about explaining that
he had 10 tickets on Reefisedoff that would have
yielded £179 10s. if the nag had won, whereas the
most that would have beep, dissolved by Israel was
£llO, he forgets the outstanding fact. This is that
Reefisedoff did not win. In all probability the brute
was not expected to win. If he had been the div.
would possibly have been £2 10s. and Ike’s attitude
would have been one of great caution. Similarly
when someone produces evidence that he got 7 to 1
against a nag, whereas the machine was only provid-
ing 5 to 1, neither circumstance has any point if the
nag doesn’t 4 win. The crux of the thing to the
punter must always be not what might have hap-
pened but what did happen—how much cash there is
in his pocket when he escapes from the course.
The flying Woorak was not much inter-
ested in the cheers he got when the Oaldeigh Plate
was over, but he deserved them all the same. No
other horse has done so well in this event. He was
well placed at the bend, landed into the straight
with the race as good as won and arrived at the box
three good lengths in front of Headwind, with Balar-
ang a head off third. The Plate is one of those races
which might have a different result every time if
there were half a dozen runs instead of one; for
everything depends on what is doing when the field
gets to the bend. But there wouldn’t be much
change if Woorak wag two lengths ahead when the
sprint for home had only a couple of furlongs to go.
Headwind had every chance, but could not stav with
the little fellow. Balarang got tangled up until the
proceedings were far too advanced for anything to
have reached the leader except a streak of lightning.
Woorak stock was procurable at 10 to 1 for a time,
and it was taken for a considerable amount at vary-
ing prices. Substantial support from the right place
brought the figure down to 11 to 2 and 5 to 1, and
that was about the best on tap for Balarang. Along-
side Woorak’s lmin. 7-Jsec. with lOst. 51b., Brattle’s
record of lmin. 6jjsec. with Bst. 111 b. looks less
worth talking about than it did before.
* * * *
Woorak’s weight for the Newmarket is
brought up to lOst. 81b. by the Oakleivh Plate win,
and '.the circumstance has not induced punters to
tumble over one another for a sample of Ikey’s offer-
ings. ! Over a straight six furlongs a weight like
that would feel horribly solid towards the end.
Balarang lost no friends by his performance last
Saturday, and has been out on his own in the betting
since. The imported horse Polycrates was a short-
ening institution last week. It is worth remember-
ing that he is an exceptional! v good nag if he
happens to be feeling quite well. Whether he can
beat Balarang at even weights in six furlongs will
be proved when the test is over, but to this page
the chances don’t look brilliant. Of the other Sydney
horses Dame Acre and La Steppe may be nearer the
fighting line at Flemington than they got on
Saturday.
In the w.f.a. St. George’s Stakes, a mile
and a furlong, at Caulfield on Saturday, Patrobas
said good-bye to everything. This horse is very
well, and-if he continues to feel that way will take
a lot of beating when the autumn programmes are
being settled. Wolaroi set out to win from end to
end, but was no sort of match for the older nag,
who brought his tail under Wolaroi’s notice after a
long, brilliant run. It was_ a good thing that
Wolaroi neglected to remain in the lead, for Pat-
robas,, started at 6 to 4 .on, and the yell from the
agonised punter if anything had occurred to boil
the pot over would have sounded like a million
hornies on the road to Eternity.
If anyone had said that a first-class horse
like Ulva’s Isle could be taken to a Sydney suburban
course and win from a field mostly composed of
second raters at 20 to 1, the remark would have
sounded like part of a fairy-story. But the thing
happened on Saturday at Rosehill, and the only
people to. materially benefit from the occurrence
were the Noses. Ulva’s Isle had not been long .up
front a spell, and as he did no good at Randwieic
in the spring was reckoned to have contracted the
slows in an incurable form. Wherefore in the
Rosehill Handicap the once-promising Thana (7st.
131 b.) was made a solid favorite and there was back-
ing for Karanaud King and Gai and Charleville.
Perhaps Thana had bad luck in having to make her
own pace. But Ulva’s- Isle made no allowance for
this, and insisted on running right-over the field
from the distance. The horse is trained by .Allsop
and may be getting close up to the best in the
autumn.
* * * *
On 10 of 14 " starters in the February
Stakes, six furlongs, at Rosehill (Sydney) on Satur-
day, there were apprentice riders, each claiming an
allowance. This is getting red hot. What is the
use of handicapping nags if they carry a weight
different from the allocation? What sort of a
chance has a horse of winning if, instead of giving
another a stone, it actually gives him two stone and
a half? It makes handicapping look more foolish
than ever. In Saturday’s flutter all three place-
getters had allowances. What occurred was a race
in which the weight-fixer’s work had been a waste
of time, and everything relating to weight depended
on chance.
* * * *
Barney Allen had a day out at Rosehill on
Saturday. Nags owned by him rounded up two
races at nice prices. The first to arrive was Camp
Out (Powhaten —Peaceful) in the Maiden Handicap.
He was second favorite at 5 to 1 and won com-
fortably. Miss Powhaten was next to do the trick,
securing the Nursery Handicap by half a neck from
the red-hot favorite Brian, from Paddy Nolan’s
stable. The fact that both Camp Out and Miss
Powhaten were bred by Barney at his Dartmouth
stud in the Hunter district of the Ma State was
something for the proprietor to expand his chest
over. Camp Out is a; three-year-old and Miss Pow-
haten a year younger. They should be heard of
again.
Just before the Carrington and Yilliers
Stakes were decided trainer Paddy Nolan believed
that lekle Lass would win one or other of the events
or at least run into a place. She didn’t do either.
On Saturday, however, she streaked to the front in
the straight during the progress of Rosehill Flying
Handicap and-decided to remain there. She belongs
to a good sport, E. A. Haley, and it was her first
success since she downed Giru and Three Star in
the Carrington Stakes of 1915. On that occasion
lekle Lass started at 33 to 1 and, netting to the
front just after the straight was entered, won by
fully eight lengths, much to the delight of Ike.
* * * *
Three Star, the prad that has many times
disappointed Adrian Knox, K.C., at Randwick, has
developed into one of the best welter milers in these
parts. The style in which this good-looking brother
to Brattle landed the recent Welter at Randwick
suggested that the Rosehill Parramatta mile would
be a good thing for him, and a« number of horse
proprietors and Mo were of the same belief. There
were only seven runners, and the best the Chosen
could do for their nearest relations was 5 to 4. The
good thing duly arrived. Three Star had his usual
pilot, Myles Connell, to guide him. Connell doesn’t
often win races these days, nor does McLachlan, but
the latter managed to be aboard two on Saturday—
Camp Out and Ulva’s Isle.
“T.H.M.”: Apropos the stamina of the
old bush horse, so frequently commented upon by
Bulletin writers. On the Far West Coast of South
Australia there still resides an old mare who some
20 years ago carried a man and swag from Chana
station to Streaky Bay, via the coast track (the
longest 100 miles anyone could wish for), between
sunrise and sunset. The old lady still docs an
occasional day’s work on Oscar Williams’s farm,
Streaky Bay.
*.* * *
“Woolley”: This is good going that I
made in Riverina in 1907.. I started away from
Deniliquin with a mate in a light buggv drawn by
a pair of 13.2 ponies by a pony stallion named
Monsoon, owned by Colin McCullpck, of near Stawell
(Vic.). We went to a property of my fellow passenger’s
13 miles east from Booroorban (The Ridge), thence
to Hay, Gillah, Gunbar, McKinley and Hillston;
thence 12 miles out on the road to Hunthawong;
back to Hillston, thence to Whealbah, Booligal, One
Tree and Hay; out to Gillah again, back to Hay
and on to Deniliquin, through Boorooban, Black
Swamp, Wanganella and Pretty Pine. This trip of
a little over 460 miles'took eight days with unchanged
ponies. I believe the same pair did 240 miles in
three days some time before this.
* * * »
Tommy Uren was still hanging on to the
middleweight championship at the end of a dis-
turbance with Jimmy Clabby at the Rushcutter’s
Bay (Sydney) Stadium on Saturday. The un-
pleasantness raged over the full distance, but the
margin in the Sydney’s lad’s favor was undoubted.
At the races in the afternoon the American was
favorite at 3 to 1. There was little justification
for this, for though Uren is no world-beater, Clabby’s
more recent efforts, against Darcy and Kay, had
raised strong suspicion that he is a long way from
being the man he was a couple of years ago. Satur-
day’s fight confirmed this. It is as certain as the
sum of 2 and 2 that James is neither as fast nor as
enduring as he used to be. And training for 20
rounds is probably now a weariness to both the flesh
and the spirit. - He wants to stall too much and
clinch and wrestle. Uren fought freely and with
good judgment, took what was coming to him with-
out flinching, and at close work more than held his
own. Clabby, if he fought as Sydney crowds have
seen him fight, would in this page’s judgment pass
Tommy into the ice-chest in short order. But it is
a long time since he did fight that way.
On his performance • against George
O’Malley at Brisbane on Saturday, the Yankee Matty
Smith ought to be in vaudeville. He showed every
mountebank trick in existence —catapulting from
the ropes, falling into a trance and waking up in
a hurry, contortion business and all. O’Malley went
ahead seriously, meeting Matthew’s comedy with
hard, unsympathetic knocks. Smith, however, planted
a right cross with some severity in the sixteenth
round, and after that O’Malley was in the stranger’s
bag. A left hook to the darby during the nine-
teenth put George quietly to sleep.
Seventeen-year-old Andy McGuire had a
try to tear the bantam championship from Jack
Jannese on Saturday at Melbourne, and mostly
because the kid had little experience John nan out
a winner on points. This youngster will do better
later on —-unless some lunatic persuades him to be in
a hurry. In that case, Andrew will surely miss
the ’bus.
* * * *
When Darcy did a scoot an individual
named O’Sullivan went to keep him company as
chief engineer or something. The incident caused
quite a lot of people to wonder how long the partner-
ship would last what the results would be.
Apparently O'Sullivan reached N’Yark with Darcy,
but nothing was heard of him publicly until last
week, when the newspapers published a cable message
announcing that Darcy had repudiated a contract to
box Mike Gibbons on the ground that O’Sullivan was
no longer his manager. This appears to suggest that
relations between O’Sullivan and Darcy are more
strained than at the time of the midnight bolt.
The contract spoken of provided for a scrap next
month, Mike and Darcy to each get £5OOO.
CHARLIE TURNER, ex-cricketer.
C. T. B. Turner, the mighty trundler in
the middle days of Australian cricket, is now a
rotund person with a smile to suit. From half-way
through the ’Bo’s well into the ’9o’s, he brought
more “nerves” to batsmen than the pastime ever
dreamed strong men possessed. Turner was a bowler
of merit before the journey with the ’BB Australian
XI; when he returned with 314 wickets, averaging
11.12 apiece, to his belt, he more than deserved the
name of “The Terror.” Turner tripped with the ’9O
and ’93 Australian Xl’s also, and both times headed
the bowling averages and gathered most wickets in
eleven-aside matches. In first-class cricket Turner
took 1059 wickets, averaging 13.79, a record never
approached; while in all matches his scalps run
nearly to five figures. Nowadays he counts cash at
the'N.S.W. Government Savings Bank with the same
dignity with which he upended wickets. His spare
hours are filled looking into the habits of cabbages
and other flowers.
Hurricane trundler Jack Scott (Peter-
sham) recovered his vim on Saturday and captured
six wickets for 37 against Balmain. Scott played
with Ma in the ’l4 and ’l5 Sheffield Shield matches;
and in Sydney premiership tw'o years ago headed the
season’s averages with 45 sticks for 8.60. Last
season he destroyed 57 at an average of 10.84. Scott
might have been a greater bowler if he had been
blessed with more patience.
* * * *
Bowling for Prahran against Essendon
last week Blaclcie in one over took four wickets
without a run being scored; but as between the
second and third victims he bowled a no-ball,
it was noisily claimed that he had missed
the hat trick. The no-ball was for “drag-
ging” over the crease—he did it no less than eight
times in the innings. A few years ago he lost a
match for his side by the same fault, as they finished
a couple of runs short and he transgressed much
more than twice. Time he gave it up.
“Pick” : Because Brigadier-General Rama-
ciotti at the recent N.lt.A. annual meeting suggested
holding a prize shoot this year “Rio” (B. 8/2/’ 17)
flies off the handle with a series of misstatements
that howl for contradiction. No N.R.A. prize meet-
ing has hitherto been financed by the Government.
They have been subsidised, but the riflemen have
always paid entry fees and ammunition charges that
in the aggregate covered the expenditure in prize
moneys. No battles in the war, perhaps, have been
altogether won by long-range rifle-fire, but the man
who knows which end of the rifle to point with has
been of invaluable service in potting the sneakish
enemy sniper. True, larger numbers of football
players than riflemen have enlisted, simply because
for every patriot that follows up rifle-shooting there
arc scores who boot inflated leather. In the rifle
club of 53 members to which I belong, however,
there have been 29 enlistments, and I crave to hear
from “Rio” of the football club, that can better
that percentage. If there be no patriotism in rifle
practice, why do so many past-day adherents of the
game still give time and attention to teaching
recruits? Also, if in making the assertion that 90
per cent, of the present-day riflemen would be
unavailable for the oountry’s defence, “Rio” is not
talking through the fly escapes in his hat, let him
explain by what means he arrives at his figures.
W. W. Hunt, who won the 100yds.
(10 2-ssec'.), 220yds. (24 4-ssec) and 440yds
(54 4-ssee.), in the Botany v. Redfern challenge
meeting at Sydney on Saturday, is the smartest of
Ma State amateur sprinters. In the Dunn Shield
last year (the virtual State championships), Hunt
was on the heels of the flying G. Hansel in both
100yds. and 220yds.; and just now he is pretty close
to being an “even-timer”—a rarity in the State for
many years. Another triple-event winner was W. J.
Potter, who scooped the jumping part of the pro-
gramme. Potter is much ahead of the next best.
Charlie Rogers, who came to the last tape
at Sydney last week, aged 41, was one of Australia’s
speediest professional peds. In the running boom
in ’9B he defeated Jack Marsh, Tommy Cartwright
and A. E. Cummins in the only 100yds. N. S- Wales
professional championship ever decided in lOsec.
Rogers was one of the few peds. who risk their
sinews at football. lie played for Newtown.
* * * *
“Tiaki” : When I was 17 I did 40 miles
between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. on the Riversdale-Master-
ton (M.L.) road. I carried a heavy swag for the
first 10 miles because the road was so deep in mud
that no coach or waggon could get through to carry
it for me.
On the first Saturday in March the Syd-
ney Lawn Tennis clubs commence their premiership
competition with 22 teams divided into three grades.
About 100 players will take part, and the Associa-
tion has hurried up to assure a - critical public that
the great majority are either under or over military
age. But why mention the matter at all if an
eligible minority are going to participate?
* * * ' *
“Auntie”: “S.T.S.’s” new trick of walking
under water (B. 8/2/’l7) isn’t new. Nearly all the
discolored hordes who man the pearling fleets around
Australia are experts at it, but the pick of them
are the islanders of Torres Strait. “S.T.S.” mifsed
the hand action. The arms certainly are not moved,
but the hands do a sort of underwater “feather”
motion that keeps the operator down.
* * * *
The sailing-boat Kismet, one of the best-
known baekmarkers among Port Jackson 18-footers,
is now third on the list of season’s winners. The
old boat probably misses three of her crew. They
are on active service. One of the owners who l went
to Gallipoli and didn’t 4 meet the craft’s namesake
there has won the Military Medal in France.
“Toby C.” : This is my x'ainbow trout.
He measured 21 inches in length, had a girth of
124 inches and turned the scale at Clb. I extracted
him from Delegate River (N.S.W.).
“T”: Re “P.F.’s” par (B. 8/2/17) on
the Tasmanian black bream. Have not yet heard of a
five-pounder being caught, nor even a four-pounder,
this year. A hotelkeeper at Scamander —considered
the best bream-fishing spot on the map—has been
offering, for some years, £5 to any angler producing
a 51b. bream. He knows that the sugar will never
be claimed. Let me add that the fish do not go out
to sea in winter. The reason that the sandbars
must be kept open is that, when they are closed, the
fresh water coming down reduces the salt strength,
and the fish get soft and flabby and are not worth
taking.
* * * *
The luckiest man in N. S- Wales fell into
the heaving Pacific at Kiama last week. The spot
he chose was the channel leading to the famous
Blowhole, and he was fairly on his way to Eternity
when two locals got a heaving line over his head
and under his shoulders and pulled him ashore. Just
where he was washing about waiting to be sucked
under, there are 18 man-eating sharks to the cubic
yard. The Kiama people tip all their deceased ani-
mals over the cliff at that point, and the 4 sharks of
the world know it as the finest free restaurant in
the whole Pacific.
If anyone in Sydney wants to know- where
to go, how to go, and what to go with in order to
catch fish, the easiest way to acquire education is to
achieve' a copy of Mick Simmons’s guide for sports-
men. It is a handy concentration of all the multi-
tudinous facts a fisherman is expected to carry
under his hat unless he happens' to have a copy of
the guide in his pocket. If the directions about
capturing whales are not entirely satisfactory the
missing information and the necessary hooks can
be obtained by merely ringing up Mick, Ltd., on the
’phone.
A CURATE’S TRIALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I wandered down the silent glade,
With maidens fair on every side,
And near the stream we sat a while,
And watched the curling waters glide.
There came upon us in our dreams
A fellow who, with strident bray,
Asked me (and hoped my luck was good)
If fish were plentiful to-day.
Being always loath to give offence,
In accents mild I answered then:
“I do not fish for fish, young man,
I am a fisherman of men.”
lie winked*at me and rudely said:
“What bonzer girls! I tell yell straight,
If catchin’ men is all your game—-
I reckon yon ’ave got the. bait.”
N.S.w.
JONMURRA.


There is a Way to
Perfedt Health!
hdf
That way is open to YO'U. Will you travel it?
The only way to improve Nature is through natural
methods.
Drugs and apparatus “usually show no results, and are often
injurious. Under my method fifteen minutes each day in
your own room are sufficient. I have thousands of students
in all parts of Australia and New Zealand who. are now
enjoying good health. Previously a large number of these
people were sufferers from indigestion, constipation and
other disorders which are the direct result of the internal
muscles being much below normal.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them back to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best of health ? Then why
not write to-day for full particulars of my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture?
This is proof of what I say:—
"Dear Sir, —I am getting along splendidly with my
exercises, My weight has increased loll)., chest expan-
sion ijiin,, waist liin.,. calf Jin., forearm lin., neck
iiri, “(Signed) (I, 8., Bodangora, N.S.W.”
Many hundreds of letters from pupils all over Australia and
New Zealand ate in the same strain,
I should like you to have mv booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF CHLTURE,’ 1 which tells about
my methods, fees, etc. .lust write your name and address
across this ad. and send it to me, with three penny stamps
for postage.
REG. L .(‘Snowy’)
BAKER,
hdf
“London Opinion”
Cigarettes.
To Cigarette smokers who prefer a
mild Virginia of rare quality, I can
very highly recommend
“LONDON OPINION”
knowing that they will give
every satisfaction. You will cer-
tainly never r'egret giving them a
trial.
These cigarettes have a fine,
mild and distinctive flavor that
puts them in a class by them-
selves. ,
They are manufactured by the
Ardath-Tobacccf Co., of London.
Being only 5/- per box of
100, they are certainly very
exceptional value.
Postage: N.S.W., (id.
Inter-State, Sd.
Ipini
Actual size
Write for a copy of my illustrated Catalog
of Cigarettes, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc. It will
interest all smokers.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
If
£
&
every day fill up ON
shell-
benzine
as2*us
FOR
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(fIPILLfIRINE
The ideal preparation for grow-
ing those short, stubby mous-
taches affected by the military is
undoubtedly C A P I L Ij A H I N E.
Hundreds have proved its unfail-
ing merit. Send for a iar to-day.
Price 10/6 JAR. POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 SY °^ e st
Established over SO Years.
h
AFTER
r
9
ower
Makes “INDIAN” the Motorcycle supreme
on Hill, on Track, and with the Side-Car.
Catalogue ‘ 1 D ” with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty- Ltd..
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd.
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE :
Eyes & Crowle Ltd.. 75-79 Pirle St.
LAUNCESTON : .
John King & Sons Ltd., Charles St.
PERTH :
Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency,
Hay St. <1
PATON
6066
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery*
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Every Dress-Particular Man
appreciates RIGNEY SHOES. The Shoo
is the last touch which either makes or ntars
a man’s appearance, therefore select your
shoes carefully.
RIGNEY SHOES mirror every authentic
fashion, and ensure a shoe of becoming dis-
tinction.
We illustrate a Choice Willow Calf Lace
Boot, Linen Lined, Close and Medium
Welts, Perforated Golosh and Lace Face.
In Black or Tan, Boots or Shoes.
Price 21/- &. 27/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOG.
rtrGN.ey
//
'.'a.'
'-?/ y. ■*
&
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE
The Answer* <*« Shovbi&Question
Illustration of
attachment for
Gilhtteßlades.
THE
EVERMORE
Cln(1(g -StroJ
<o IVr^^-^rROPPi
Attachment for
DurhamDupkx
1 Blades
Dotted
arrows show
DIAGONAL
course of
COMPORT
QUALITY
VALUE
PLEASURE
fh
ASK YOUR
DEALER to
DEMONSTRATE
IT
For Sale through
out Australasia
IF UNPROCURABLE WRITE TO
BOX 1003 G.P.O. SYDNEY BOX M GPO. AUCKLAND KZ.


Actress Tells Secret
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment : “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum and a small box of Orlex Com-
pound. These ingredients can be bought at
any chemist’s at very little cost. Apply to
the hair twice a week until it becomes the
required shade. This will make a grey-
haired person look 20 years younger. It is
also fine to promote the growth of ha'r. and
relieves itching and dandruff.” —Advt. |T
HOTEL
STEWABT
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, Just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a Cay and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives^
CHRISTIES
&PECMUSE
TWO
L/NES
I# 5
s
write
FOR
CATALOGUE
/iNO
PATTERNS
TO
m
. «
■
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
Zr/lONTER S T NEWCASTLE
Riding Emperors.
ftJXoden
Our Celebrated “IRONBA R K
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, fitted with the “A & S” special
ankle protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbark Brand” on loops.
Price - - 14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/(5 per pair.
Allan#Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
BELLEVUE
The only Hotel
overlooking
HOTEL, the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal, supervision of the owner, A. FINNIOAN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
Elder, SmitH &. Co., Limited,
General Merchants, Importers & Exporters.
Special Department for Metals and Ores.
/
Head Office: Adelaide. Branches throughout South Australia, and
at Broken Hill and Wentworth, N.S.W.
MELBOURNE OFFICE.: Queensland Building, 84-88 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE : Falmouth Chambers, 117 PITT STREET.
PERTH AGENTS: ELDER, SHENTON & CO., LIMITED.
LONDON OFFICE: “Portland House,” 73 3ASINGHALL STREET, E.C.
Carry an Onoto with you!
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills
itself in a flash, cleans itself in the act of filling',
and contains sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
Never leaks- always writes smoothly—ami is always ready
for writing. Can be filled from any ink supply withou
a filler, without mess or trouble, in five seconds.
Onoto
Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
British made by British labour.
Price, 14/6 and upwards. At all
Stationers, Jewellers, Stores, etc.
Manufacturers—Thomas de la Rue
&Co LTD.,Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
Managing: Agents —Nornianßaker &
Longhurst, York Street, Sydney.
m
m
fh
f
hf
/
S-
r #
THE. woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier anil more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them, what an exultant feeling she has of lightness,
buoyancy and freedom. On the top of this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that come
of being well-dressed and knowing it. For Bostock
shoes are always designed with one eve on the
fashions of the day and one eye on the riltimate sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting and so easy, that they feel just like one’s best-
loved old pair, yet so dainty, so original, so
thoroughly well-made that they look and, after quite
a lot o. P'r. continue to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable.
Bostock No.
P 647 2
831
hf
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
2.
h
In This Age of Economy'
the use of BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS is necessary, because the}
not only shine but preserve the leather.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLA CREAM for Patent Leather and Glace Kid gives a
brilliant polish, and keeps the leather soft and.pliable.
Colors —Black, Brown, Dark Brown and White.
In 2oz. Tubes, 6cL; 4oz. Bottles, 1/-. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
HDDSWELL, CLARKE 8 CO
■J
m
■
LEEDS.
Locos, of all Types.
ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BEST.
Agent—
J. GERMAN, House, Moore St., Sydney
The Wellington Trust, uoan and In-
vestment Co. (Wellington. M.L.) :
To lie- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1905 ..£10,913 8 p.c. =£B,loo £2813 £34,Sot
Property written up . . 2000 36,304
1906 .. 11,952' 8 p.e. = 8,100 3852 40,156
1907 . . 12,278 S ~ ~ 8,100 4178 44,334
Property written down, £l7OO. . 42,634
1908 . . 10,572 ' 8 p.c. = 8,100 2472 45,106
1909 .. 10,460 8 „ „ 8,100 2360 4/,466
1910 . 11,369 8 ~ ~ 8,100 J 5269 50,735
Property written down, £877 . . 49, 808
1911 .. 12,086' 8 p.c. = 8,100 3980 53.844
Premiums on new shares .. 4*44 58,588
1912 .. 12,091 81 p.c.= 8,766 3325 61,913
Premiums on new shares 3514 6->,427
1913 .. 12,174 9 p.c. = 11.230 944 66,371
Internal reserves di closed 200 66,571
1914 .. 13,632 9 p.c. =ll 250 2382 68,953
1915 . . 12,020 9 ~ „ 11,250 770 69,723
1916 .. 12,413 9 ~ ~ 11,250 1163 70,886'
This is a mortgage co.; ai d in a country
which is afflicted with borrowing booms and
consequent bursts of bogus prosperity the
mortgage co.’s greatest danger is that it
won’t be able to realise its assets quickly
enough to meet its own liabilities. 'Hie
principal tip to be got from past financial
disasters in Australia and AimiVilnnd. so
far as mortgage cos. is concerned, is to
secure their borrowed money for long periods
and spread the repayments well. Three-
fourths of the concerns that went brone
twenty-odd years ago would have been able
to pay 20s. in the £ had they not been com-
pelled by pressing creditors to rush securi-
ties on to a market with the bottom knocked
out of it. Now. this co. —but let us have
the figures first: —
1905. 1914. 1915. 1916.
£ £ £ £
Capital & reserves 139,604 199,578 200,348 201,511
Liabilities.. .. 308,579 359,788 306 880 383,833
Mortgages, etc. . . 429,106 524,621 528,871 545,659
Freeholds. . .. 3,500 12,923 14.580 14,286
Interest owing . . 5,566 7,338 7,324 7,803
Liquid assets .. 10,011 14,484 16 447 17,596
Provided advances have been made with a
fair amount of care the co. should be
thoroughly sound. It owes the public,
almost all on account of what is described
as “Deposits and interest and investors,”
£383,833; and besides £39.685 of deposits,
freeholds and sundries, it has £545.659 of
“mortgages and other securities.” Only mad
management in the past or a dreadful catas-
trophe in the future could make those assets
worth less than the liabilities. The weak fea-
ture is that one doesn’t know the nature ‘of
the deposits and investors’ balances. If
they are largely money at call, then in
view of the very small amount of liquid
assets the position might some day be pre-
carious. Whether the concern is really safe
or not therefore depends upon the terms
and conditions on which it holds the pub-
lic’s money employed in the business. As
for profits, assuming that the principal is
all right, it seems to this paper impossible
that they can escape suffering from the re-
action which Maoriland must go through
after the war.
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co. (S'. A us.) .
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
dune, 1909. . £1420 5 p.c.=£l4oo £2O £18,295
Dec., 1909.. 3801 8 ~ ~ 2240 1561 19,856
June, 1910.. 3714 10 ~ ~ 2800 914 20,770
Dec.. 1910.. 1945 10 ~ ~ 2800 19,915
June, 1911.. 3092 8 „,, 2240 852 20,767
Dec., 1911.. 3299 10 ~ ~ 2800 499 21.266
June, 1912.. 1841 5 „ „ 1400 441 21,707
Dec.. 1912.. 4008 10 ~ „ 2800 1208 22,915
June, 1913.. 3824 10 ~ „ 2800 1024 23,939
Dec., 1913.. 6000 10 „., 2800 3200 27,139
June, 1914.. 2848 10 „ „ 2800 48 27,187
Loss.
Dec., 1914.. 1093 5 „,, 1 "lo 24,694
June, 1915.. 965 5 „ „ 1400 22,329
Profit.
Dec., 1915.. 985 5 „ „ 1400 21,914
Loss.
June, 1916.. 1137 Nil 20,777
Profit.
Dec., 1916.. 1735 Nil 1735 22,512
This is a most talkative co. Directors’ re-
port (the whole of it) :
During the half-year the earnings generally have
improved, but the directors consider that the finan-
cial position does not justify them in declaring a
dividend or bonus, whilst they have every hope that
future operations will show increased improvements.
And T. E. Creer, the manager (the whole
of him, too) :
I beg to report—
Steam tugs.—ln good order both in hull and
machinery.
Steam launches. —In fair working order.
Water boat.—-In good order.
Lighters.—ln fair order.
Salvage Plant. —In good order.
This paper has long had an idea that the
veteran Creer ought to treat his charges as
kids up for examination, and give them
marks: “Steam-tugs.—Hull, 48 ; machinery,
42 (total 90) ; steam launches, 79; water
boat, 85” —and so on. That would be much
more precise, and would save a line or two
as well. The co., though it doesn’t pay a
dividend, isn’t exactly hard up :
Dee., 'O9. June, ’l6. Dec., ’l6.
Assets apart from
tugs, lighters, etc. ' .. £32,936 £30,071 £31,852
Liabilities . . . . 1,152 1,933 706
Surplus .. .. £31,784 £28,138 £31,080
So the co. is just about where it was seven
years ago on a comparison of this sort.
Meantime, however, it has bought, among
other things, a steam lighter at a cost of
over £15,000. As against that, there has
been a certain amount of depreciation
which hasn’t been covered by repairs and
renewals. The miscellaneous assets, by the
way, include about £lB,OOO of cash items
and £4454 of book debts which are no doubt
as good as cash.
Hampden has declared the usual quarterly
2s. dividend, 'which costs £55,000. This will
raise the total amount paid to £385,000, or
225. per share. It isn't an exceptionally
large amount on an output of over 2(5,000
tons of copper ; both I,yell and Morgan have
paid dividends considerably in excess of £2O
per ton, and this !is barely £l5. The
January return was 407 tons blister contain-
ing 401 tons fine copper from 3757 tons ore.
On these figures the average is over 10
p.c.; but remember that 600 tons of pur-
chased ore is included, and copper-bearing
limestone flux isn’t counted as ore at all.
This limestone flux, by the way. is of higher
grade for copper than the pyritic ore smelted
by Mount Lyell. Hampden is selling its
copper at £l2O. but freight and insurance
are deducted ; so you can knock off a tenner
at least to bring it level with f.o.b. Sydney.


x v
--
m
i
~ . ; \ l, ! I \
.! \ \ \W \ . \ ' i \ ‘i i 1
(ft
■ I» it , I r.i, ; > t t < ■
i ill 1 . til i !:r;
' U fU! 1 I s . Mf.; , I !
s’j} U • ii 1
SIX \i\yA |! ji h 1
i; -: 'ikiKii I ; n
F
I ijy i |J\iy 1 11 | j;; 11'.! 1 1
lift s ;
mm
! i!,
1
I !! I
i !i IS 111;
! k\ l\ |! i.l!,
sTW
m
i
ins
Ki
i
i
IIM
C*xY
Is I!
LiU
nirrmn
m
i k iiilli. ill imi>ii!!?^miiuun
m
mr.
m
HJi
m
■3'h;
t ! \
rsti
inij
'fifU-l
< /'Of ft /! h
U M,
H/n>
fn >
fVfi
I *
1
Thfm
MEGGITT’S BIG SILO, like Meggitt’s Oil, has No Equal.
This 2000-ton Seed Storage ensures Continuity of Supplies.
PAINTERS, help to make Australia prosperous by using Meggitt’s Linseed Oil,
made by good Australian Workmen at Parramatta.
For full particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne;
Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers, Parramatta, n.s.w.


Guard the Babies
Australia needs them all
From about the age of four months, at which
teething troubles begin, great care should : be
Ipken of the baby and the process of dentition
carefully watched until it is complete.
Irregular and excessive feeding, and the improper
quality of food should be carefully avoided.
Plenty of fresh air is essential, and a high standard
of general health should be maintained by giving
FISHERS
Teething Powders
Guaranteed not to contain Opium, Morphia,
Calomel, nor any injurious ingredients.
Always keep them in the house and give as
directed if any of the. following symptoms occur.
Restlessness, Sleeplessness, Feverishness, Hot,
Swollen or Tender Gums, Sickness, Diarrhoea
or Constipation.
All Chemists and Stores: Boxes of 20 Powders,
1/-. Boxes of 60 Powders, 2/6.
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
F20.TP337 GEORGE STREET. BYDNEY. N. S.W.
/hshTr'sV
TEETHING
POWDERS y
1
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists Of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
, , . a nd powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustrcin-s, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Ino. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, ROCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that
will restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a
few days’ time merely by the application
of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from
your, chemist two ounces of tammalite con-
centrate and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply this to the hair a few times
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradu-
ally darkening to the desired shade. The
lotion is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and
does not injure the hair in any way. [1
Goitre Sufferers!
If you have tried other methods with-
out satisfactory results, write for
further information regarding Doig’s
Goitre Treatment. It seldom fails to
give prompt relief and to reduce the
most obstinate swelling, leaving no
trace. Many original unsolicited letters
available for inspection state that
Doig’s Goitre Treatment has
succeeded in cases of many years stand-
ing—in some instances it has perman-
ently reduced ihe neck by live inches.
Over 3000 successes to its credit.
A. DOIG (Australia) LTD.
Manufacturing Chemists
197 P 1 n-nhton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
* v rtnvknfN? <
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Ofa// First-c/oss Hatters throughout the Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OF TRESS 6 C?L TD LONDON ENGLAND
The
TRESS,
reg? mark
guarantees}
Quafity
Finish
meter
Hats
AND
CAPS
SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearings.
Save 25% to 90% power.
Adapter bearing
as used in
Plummer Blocks.
USED FOR.
LINE SHAFTING
MACHINERY
FANS
PUMPS
WINDMILLS
VEHICLES
%
Call and see us and eliminate
friction.
Radial bearing showing
Self-aligning.
We Have 10,008 bearings in stocK—Radial, Thrust and
Double-thrust, lig'bt, medium and Heavy.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
MELBOURNE* 57 Queen Street; SYDNEY: 334 Kent Street;
BRISBANE: 369 Queen Street.
rr- ;
cm
& V
m
1
an
V-
Secrets of Beauty
The Cream of Modern Beauty Advice
By “ MIMOSA.”
A PERSISTENT- ’
nose or a dull,
life less
a woman
sequent
complexion drives many
to cosmetics and con-
despair. And all the time
lies at hand in the home,
cleminite in the house you
a simple remedy
If you have no
need only get
about an ounce from your chemist and add
just sufficient water to dissolve it. A little
of this simple lotion is Nature’s own beauti-
fier. It is very good for the skin and in-
stantly gives the complexion a soft, velvety,
youthful bloom that any woman might envy.
It lasts all day or evening, renders powder-
ing entirely unnecessary, and absolutely
defies detection.
COSMETICS can never really help a poor
complexion ; often they are positively
harmful. The sensible, rational way is to
actually remove the thin veil of stifling,
half-dead scarf skin from the face, and give
the fresh, vigorous and beautiful young skin
underneath a chance to show itself and to
breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way,
by merely applying mercolised wax at night,
like cold cream, and washing it off in the
morning. It absorbs the disfiguring cuticle
gradually and harmlessly, leaving a brilliant
natural complexion. Of course, this also
takes with it all such facial blemishes as
red blotches, tan, -moth patches, sallowness,
liver spots, etc. As a freckle remover and
general complexion beautifier this old-
fashioned remedy is unequalled.
BLACKHEADS, oily skins and enlarged
pores usually go together, but can be
'.nstantly corrected by a unique new process.
A tablet of stymol, obtained from the ehem-
st’s is dropped in a tumbler of hot water,
which will then of course “fizz” briskly.
When the effervescence has subsided the face
is bathed with the stymol-charged water and
then dried with a towel. The offending
blackheads, of their own accord, come right
off on the towel, the large oily pores imme-
diately contract and efface themselves natu-
rally. ‘ There is no squeezing, forcing or any
drastic action. The skin is left uninjured,
smooth, soft and cool. A few such treat-
ments should be taken at intervals of three
or four days thereafter in order to ensure
the permanence of the pleasing result so
quickly obtained.
* * * *
BEAUTIFUL hair adds immensely to
the personal magnetism of both men
and women. Actresses and smart women
are ever on the look-out for any harmless
thing that will increase the natural beauty
of their hair. The latest method is to use
pure stallax as a shampoo on account of
the peculiarly glossy, fluffy and wavy effect
which it leaves. As stallax has never been
used much for this purpose it comes to the
chemist only in sealed original packages,
enough for twenty-five or thirty shampoos.
A teaspoonful of the fragrant stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair, apart
from its beautifying effect.
* * * *
IT is astonishing the number of women
who suffer from the humiliating afflic-
tion of superfluous hair, and I am sorry to
say that through ignorance or wrong treat-
ment the majority of them have made matters
considerably worse by causing the hairs to
grow more quickly and stronger than before.
It only requires a little thought to realise
the folly of it all. Removing the surface
growth for a few days may give temporary
relief, but in order to obtain permanent
results the hair roots must be killed. Caustic
depilatories are worse than useless, and on
no account should the hairs be pulled out.
Apart from the electric needle, which is a
costly and painful process, any chemist will
tell you that the best home treatment is
pure powdered pheminol, which has a de-
vitalising effect upon the hair roots, in addi-
tion to which it removes all trace of tne
objectionable hair in a few seconds, and tne
reconlmended treatment gradually, bu
surely, dissolves out the hair follicles, wmc 1
is the only method of permanently ridding
oneself of this terrible disfigurement. L°
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Vo notice (except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Vo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
E. Donaldson: One gag is old as the first
broken promise, and the other goes out on strong
suspicion.... Stonnie: That old reprobate is going
the rounds in that modest dress now, is it? Try the
Young Ladies’ Jouhxal with it. .. .P.A.P.: Now,-
who may you be, and where did you get that
dangerous yarn which, incidentally, you forgot to
sign?. .. .Tyke: You’re a dull dog. Can’t you
brighten up your stuff a bit ?. .. . Bluenose: Smart
trifle, but too late. . . .Poss: Hopkins invented the
boy; and a kid named Ernest Laurence, the paper’s
more-or-less grey-headed solicitor to-day, .was “Hop’s”
m0de1.... Gecko: Sporting matter received, but you
forgot the cypher. .. . H.T.H.: “If of no use;
destroy.” Did you think we might frame it?....
Fair Dinkum: (1) Dunno; never met the King. In
what pub did you meet him? (2) Yes, but if we
advocated that, .Flossie would counter it by forming
a union and up would go the cost of loving. .. .
T.M.: No use. .. .11.W.5.: You had material there;
why didn’t you work the yarn out?. . . .C.8.M.: A
lot of commonplace little rhymes with no point in
them. .. . E.A.: Don’t seem to know what verse is...
A.M.L.: Impossible as written...'. E.M.: He’s a
dreary idiot.... D.G.: Clumsy verse with no special
point.... C.M.L.: Not up....G.W.: “Paddy Murphy”
No use. .. .Olive: You’ll have to improve a
lot yet....5.Y.: Pleasantly written. You should
be able to sell it elsewhere.... R.C.: Not well-
written commonplace J.M.M.: “You smiled
once on her and I.” Avaunt, and mend your
grammar! Outlaw: Something in them, but
not up....M.G.: “Corry’s” exploit does not make a
story F.G.J.: Your “Scotchman” has hardly
enough in him T. 0.: “Cow Doctor” too crude. .. .
L. 8.: Too ordinary to rouse any enthusiasm......
Ii.M.S.: Horrible yarn; horrible verse. ... Braemar:
Nothing in it. . . .Kuridala: Not a gleam there. . . .
E.H.: No good. You have very little idea of verse-
making. And if you had, why do it unless you have
something to say ?.... An Australian : This ought to
fetch ’em:—
Cooee! lads, Old England is calling.
Cooee 1 lads, our own brave boys are falling.
Cooee! Cooee! Don’t you hear'the distant Dooming?
If you your duty fail, you your country are dooming.
K.R.: “Awakened” is good, but not for this
paper. . . .Old Alleynian: Dulwich College might stand
that sort of thing, but we want something with
more meat in it II.B.: “February” falls down once
or twice. . . .E.G.P.: First stanza good ; second rotten.
....Cute: Can’t read it. ... J.L.V.: Not nearly up.
.. . .H. 8.: Too thin. . . .H.T.: You have a fine turn
of brag, but the verse is poor W. 1.: Clever, but
not our style. .. .G.8.M.: There’s a small story, but
the handling doesn’t convince. ... G. It. II.: What on
earth does “Pluck the caves from your breast” mean?
S.McD.: You may have taken it down in short-
hand, but you can’t write it R.S.: “Pinched” is
lamentable. .. .X.Y.Z.: Second reply seems to be
yours, but impossible to trace now P'j.T.: Never
knew that telling “of ghosts that blew upon the
bieeze” was a regular evening pastime of shearers.
.. . . WALL.: There is a story in “Scum.” Try again.
L.M.M.: No freshness nor force.... Tehguh:
There’s certainly excitement in it:—
“My pet foot!” cried another man,
A thin quiet chap was he,
Whilst the one who trod upon him
A heavy-weight was she.
“Take that and that,” yelled a lady, .
* As a poor man she hit;
“I wish you had learht manners,
Get out of my way a bit.”
“Heaven help me,” cried another man,
And amongst the crowd he sped,
’Twas a woman’s umbrella
That had hit him on the head.
. ...J.M.M.: No use G.R.I-I.: You couldn’t em-
ploy that parallel except in a jesting mood S.K.:
No. . . .Blanclio Blank: Crude verse with no point.
....Lin: Lumpy verse and pretty commonplace.
What on earth is “riven snow”? M.C.: There’s a
hint of merit in it, but verse very poor. .. .8.C.:
Its chief faults are bad metre, lack of ideas, worn-
out phrasing and general feebleness 5.8.: We
don’t ask what you “think of life,” but if we were
curious about your opinion the answer wouldn’t
enlighten us much.... Fair Shot: Lord, help u 5....
Skarmin Ru: An idea, but not well handled....
Lup Maim: Very lame stuff Gordon: It goes the
same way C.V.8.: No use 5.1.5.: Similar
things a little better done have a chance.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.R.: Gag poor and the faces are quite expression-
less... .R.McB.: Sorry, no value here. .. .F.L.IC.: A
grim thing. .Dropsed: You carn’t pass through on
that .... ILF. : Can’t discover any saleable g00d5....
I.M.DeS.: Overboard.... Barb: There are a lot of
beginners doing just as good work. Study if you
are interested.... Mac: Creaky jest Bruer:" A
regimental joke only Roy M.: Another clever imi-
tation of an old woodcut.. . .S.T.: The Egyptian lady
in modern dress and her friend the tailor’s dummy
are working off an old gag.
The Huns are so fond of the freedom of
the seas that they are ready to grant it to
every ship-passenger they encounter.
Lately an item .or two were printed about
the distressing financial condition of the
Austin Hospital for incurables at Heidel-
berg. William Turner, secretary of the
concern, had explained that Victorian cancer
victims were enduring horrible sufferings be-
cause the Austin couldn’t admit them—a
ward was available, but there were no beds
or other facilities. Promptly the public put
its hand in its pocket and dug up £2870:
so the passing of the indigent Victorian
cancer patient will not in future so much
resemble the death of a rat in its hole.
The old Duke of Norfolk (70) having
returned to clay, the misty honor of being
“hereditary Butler of England” may be
fought for by the two other claimants who
wanted to argue the matter before the ab-
surd Court of Claims that sat before the
coronation of the late Edward in order to
equitably distribute the supers’ parts
amongst the old nobility. The old Duke
didn’t want to be regarded as hereditary
chief of the Butlers’ Union or do the Royal
washing up for ever at overtime rates. He
merely wanted to carry a glass-cloth and
a bottle, or some other appropriate props.,
at the tremendous crowning ceremony. But
even the ridiculous Court of Claims couldn’t
be bothered with the buttling dispute.


“ CHUNDER ” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
mt
mm
S'
wtr</
■Xi-?
B 5
fJC
‘49S’ ;
&'\\\
/ : 3. V- \
'V.-'.-, Vc V> V
v ''\hX'i'\ y \ *%\ \
X. % s& ’* .>■ *y
... .M&fs
_
;i »jAj.-»T-.?itt'»*' oV 'o% ...—''
...... ••■
/ ~, :rr
v^v„-
7:«R^ c
’ Cj.£ -\-jft: >£• y- '•*s
id*- - *'*" ■"“'
5)W*
l-Se:«<- : r
*2®
KS&ggg
\\\wo
\ViVaS
?■ r r -<<«•:•>(v;
MM
V.v...
•* tv*#
m®
§SiiM
y -v.-..
osPSq^-’
sac;
w
>^4SS
PSBSIS
\ >
TKsfe s@M|
. •SwTßu
b^ssc*s&^
!SJL>. *<•: '%*'
-■ \ \ VV\ 7 7F*i*
-'A' V' \ Wf>V /j
S3.- -\ •. ■* \ \w//i
ft. *7 Jt
\ t
%&** y
JgllSL
\N
X. «.%*-•”' ..‘*i . *f>
■
fiW
. ,--
IS
o
•Wrt
j,-A /r>'
;V.'».VA9‘^'^.n ; V^
IS
Cobra,” €>h e Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Trawls for prowling
U-boats too.
When the fish is
In the net
/There is joy
On board, you bet
“Kamerad!” the
Germans cry,
For they do not
Want to die.
"COBRA” with the
Greatest ease
Cleans old England’s
Guarded seas.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIKNT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
x 12 Martin Place,
" Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
HUISIUNK
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABBHG
GLADSTONE
♦ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland pdrts.
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons)
Leaves Sydney, Feb., 24.
BURWAH (Cargo only).
Leaves Melbourne, Feb. 27.
Leaves Sydney, March 3.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 7.
Leaves Sydney, March 10.
MKLBOURNK
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
‘Passengers only.
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Svdney, March 3.
I’nil Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports..
Hanking’, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITA Li .. .. £2,000,000
CAPTTAIj Subscribed and Paid Uo £1,198,679’
RESERVE FUND £95,000
IIIOAl) OFFICE : George * King Streets, Sydney, I
I.ONDOS OFFICE: 3“ Tiireadnecdle Street, E.C. I
DIRECTORS — Mark Shelpox, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., L.L.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert It. Lysaght, Esq.; George F.
Todjian, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Blanches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. ,T
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.09L6G9 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors- Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.Ij.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. IT. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
lIU.VD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Coiien, Esq. . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: 11. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)em Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,95S
Preference Shares 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500;000)
Paid-up .. .. •• 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Aii-;.• alia. New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
lJritain and Ireland, and other places.
at Interest, for
fixed periods, and
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking busineu.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED”
RAILWAY, Across
ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
t lie Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH HOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
AROUND THE WORLD HOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA THU* THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America-
K.M.S. Niagara and It.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
mm
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
*
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£
iry*^
£3,705,320
£2.723 000
£3.705,320
The lion. Sir Charles lv. MacKellar,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Iv.C.M.G.,
Directors:
£10,135,640
The lion. Edmund W. Eosbery, C.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneodle St, E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
.T. BUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager,
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
fh
JBank ot Hißtralta
SYDNEY. |
Open
for all
in the
principal
General Banking: Business
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
2600
At all Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest a.t o<y
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JVMB3 KELI.. Deputy Goreriior. June, 1916 DENISON' MILLER. Goreriior
THE THRIFTY MAN
will surely get ahead. One of the greatest helps to systematic thrift is a savings
bank account, because it gives you a safe place to keep your savings and enables
your money to earn liberal interest for you.
This Bank Offers You Every Facility for Saving;.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards. Interest naid at 3f p.c. on every £ up to £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State. No Agencies at Post Offices.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank that pays 3f per cent, interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
101! MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PIUIE
And GULP POUTS
IKE.MANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to ail North-Western Ports.
IMBOOLA, Friday,
March 9 and April 6,
BRISBANE
-MACKAY
Ti'U'NSYILEE
And Ports North to Cairns.
RUPARA, Feb. 24.
PARING A, March 3.
MORIALTA, March 10.
Sal°on Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to con.litiofis, which can he
ascertained on application at the. Company's Ollice.
g. s. Him & co„ i/i'i)..
Agents, 6 liltlDGili STIililOT. SYU.N’IiV.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zsalandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,”
"Rivcrina,”
"Wimmera,”
"Victoria.”
“ Westralia,”
All of Moduli Construction,
titled with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH (i Aid. NEW ZEALAND FORTS
’ HOBART AND SYDNEY.
Melbourne and Launceston
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia ami
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne ami
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued "in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES aim QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. CO S-. 6d. : second-class rail.and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and ail particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 2GI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
Calverts
iletSoap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of t'ne
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decide dly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made byF. C. Calvertts* Co.. Manchester. En%.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge. •


THE
RED
IS MADE OF PURE PARA RUBBER
' IT IMSURES
the MAXIMUM MILEAGE
the MIMIMUMorEXFEMSE
BECAUSE IT
LASTS 3TIMES LONGER
THAN ANY OTHER IHHERTUBE AIN O
COSTS the LEAST
Michelin Tyres can be obtained at leading, Dealers and Garages.
L‘X‘Wum
CURES ECZEMA.
Few diseases are more irritating than Eczema,
which unfortunately is only too prevalent throughout
Australia. Many remedies have been advertised,
some of which gave relief for a period. Exzerma,
which is an Australian discovery, has permanently
cured many obstinate cases. It is composed of
Australian herbs, and is applied externally. Write
S. Fielder, Randwick for particulars. [2
All Chemists and Druggists,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick.
5/-, 216
UMP
V/ The Trusty Triumph is
' a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
a
Agents:
Bennett SBarkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlsreagh
Street, Sydney.
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
fd
THE “SMITH”
ADTO
, WHEEL
Tunis your push-bike
ii.to a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The Pick o’ the PLUMS
“Gramophone” owners who wish to concentrate both value and VARIETY
into their record-selections are advised to make “a pick of THE PLUMS”
■ —or in other words the popular double-sided
v/aiteri
GRAMOPHONE
PLUM-LABEL RECORDS
—and there’s no restriction in the picking either. The “Plum” lists
include hundreds of famous Band Selections, the VERY latest orchestral
and REVUE hits, vocal successes and topical comicalities by EMINENT
performers. Here’s the big- advantage: You get “GRAMOPHONE”
quality—and a double helping ! Two selections on every record.
10-incH,
316
12-incH,
5|6
Ask your dealer for “Gramophone PLUMS.”
Complete lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Marl:.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY
SAFEGUARD VOOR health
QtJ.ColtiS Brown's
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST . MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Sim pie Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England., ljS, 3.J-, 5/-,
Made in England.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Sea Warfare
BY
RUDYARD KIPLING
Containing- “The Fringes of the Fleet,”
“Tales of ‘The Trade,’ ” and “Destroy-
ers at Jutland.” Cloth, ss. net. Also
Dominions Edition, Its, (id.
THE EMPIRE AND THE FUTURE.
A Series of Imperial Studies Lectures
delivered in the University of Lon-
don. King’s College. 2s. net.
The Times: “These lectures show in almost
every line the quickened breath and speeded
pulse of that awakening. They are anything
but academic. Throughout they are the live words
of men who speak of great things to listeners
as keenly interested as themselves.”
THE FOUNDATION & GROWTH
OE THE BRITISH EMPIRE. By
JAMES A. WILLIAMSON. With
Maps, 2/6.
The Globe : “‘The Foundation and Growth
of the British Empire’ is clearly and precisely
traced by Mr. .1. A. Williamson, with the aid
of maps, for this is a subject in which geog-
raphy, which ought always to be associated
witti history, is absolutely indispensable.”
BENOIT CASTA IN. By MARCEL
PREVOST. Translated by Arthur
C. Richmond. 2s. net.
A vivid, tragic story of a French frontier
post in the early days of the war, written with
great power.
FAITH OR FEAR? An Appeal to
the Church of England. By
DONALD lIANKEY (A Student in
Arms), WILLIAM SCOTT PAL-
MER, HAROLD ANSON, F. LEWIS
DONALDSON and CHARLES 11.
S. MATTHEWS (Editor), 3s. (id.
net.
Canon {-Scott Holland, in The Common-
wealth : “The book is frank, free and stimu-
lating. It is written in excellent temper;
and it makes a very effective personal appeal
to its readers.”
NATURE AND ADVENTURE IN
AUSTRALASIA. For Boys and
Girls. By JANE ADA FLETCHER
(Author of “Stories from Nature”).
Illustrated. Is. (id.
THE
ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
British Empire.
Contents for December:
Australia: Mr. llu°-hes’s Policy—-Indus-
trial Unrest in Australia—Recent Liquor Legis-
lation —The Commonwealth Mercantile Fleet.
New Zealand : The People and the War —
Parliament and Finance —Compulsory Military
Service —Inter-Imperial Relations.
The Making op Peace.
The Growing Necessity for Constitutional
Reform.
Price 2s. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per annum,
post free to any address within the Empire.
W. and A. Iv. JOHNSTON’S
WAR MAPS.
THE BALKAN STATES. Size
25 x 20 inches. Colored Cloth
Folded. Is. 3d. net. Unmounted
Sheet, (id. net.
THE MIDDLE EAST, illustrating the
campaigns in Mesopotamia, Persia
and the Caucasus. Size 35 x 23
inches. Colored Cloth Folded, Is. 6d.
net. Unmounted Sheet, (id. net.
EUROPE, SHOWING ALL THE
WAR AREAS. Size 40 x3O inches.
Colored Cloth Folded, 2s. net. Un-
mounted Sheet, (id. net.
BELGIUM AND NORTH-EAST
FRANCE. Showing main roads and
railways. Size 25 x 30 inches.
Printed in Colors. Unmounted Sheet,
(id. net.
(1) BETWEEN PARIS AND BER-
LIN.
(2) BETWEEN PETROGRAD AND
BERLIN.
Including the whole of Austria and
showing the Italian Frontier. Size
40 x 30 inches. Colored. Cloth
Folded, Is. 6d. net each.
MACMILLAN’S
EMPIRE LIBRARY
3s. 6d. each.
EDITH WIIARTON.
G 57 XINGU AND OTHER STORIES.
By EDITH WHARTON.
The Times : “Mrs. Wharton's clear, quick
art is everywhere at home.... There is ironic
comedy, there is dramatic portraiture, there is
romantic legend, each in its right place and
right tone in these stories; and the versatile
keenness of the imagination projected, always
ready for fresh flights and desiring new diffi-
culties, is remarkable in them all.”
651 THE SHEPHERD OF THE
NORTH. By RICHARD AUMERLE
MAIIER.
Country Life : “Though the whole bias of
the book is strongly catholic, the tale is
stirring, with its forest fire, murder trial and
rebellion. A forceful simplicity of style brings
out vividly both scenes and characters.”
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Legal Notices.
HENRY ISAAC COATES, Deceased.
D URSIJANT to a Judgment of the Chancery Divi-
* sion of the High Court of Justice dated the 29th
May, 1916, made in the matter of the Estate of
HENRY ISAAC COATES, deceased, and in an action,
At.tridge v. Inskip (1916 C., No. 1133). Whereby the
following inquiries were directed, namely:—
(1) An Inquiry who upon the death of the said
Henry Isaac Coates became beneficially entitled to
any real estate of his as to which he died intestate
and if more than one for what estates or interests and
whether any such persons fire since dead, and if so
who by devise descent or otherwise have become
entitled to such real estate to which such persons so
became entitled.
(2) An Inquiry who upon the death of the said
Henry Isaac Coates became beneficially entitled to
any personal estate of his as to which he died
intestate, and if more than one in what shares and
proportions and whether any such persons are since
dead, and if so who are their legal personal repre-
sentatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiries are
by themselves or their Solicitors on or before the
15th May, 1917, to enter their names and the parti-
culars of their claims in a book kept for that pur-
pose in Room No. 699 Royal Courts of Justice,
Strand, London, and also on or before the 22nd May,
1917, to come in and prove their claims at the said
Chambers or in default thereof they will be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of such judgment.
TUESDAY, the 22nd May, 1917, at 12 of the clock
at noon at the said Chambers (Room No. 700), is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
Dated this 20th day of December, 1916.
J. H. P. CHITTY,
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note. —The said Henry Isaac Coates was a
Grazier, and died on the 22nd March, 1916, at 18
Cambridge Road, Barking, in the County of Essex, a
bachelor and intestate, and is alleged to be the only
child of Henry Coates and Mary Coates, formerly
Inskip. The said Henry Coates was formerly the
Licensee of the “Crooked Billet’’ Public House at
Barking Creek, in the said County of Essex, and
died intestate at 18 Cambridge Road, Barking, afore-
said on the 20th February, 1894.
KENNETH BROWN, BAKER, BAKER and CO.,
Lennox House, Norfolk Street, Strand,
London, England, Solicitors.
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
' Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Marohant, Proprietor.
WRITE THIS VERY
DAY FOR
Finney’s Gold Medal Furniture Book
WE’LL POST ONE YOUR
WAY WITH PLEASURE.
T does not matter how far away you may live, this book
makes you our next-door neighbor.
It is filled from cover to cover with actual photographs of our
Gold Medal Furniture so it shows the Furniture as it actually
is and exactly what you will get when ordering from this book.
Don't even think of furnishing or re-furnishing until you first of
all get this book because between its covers you will find the
key to a happy, well-furnished home and at the least outlay.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO. LTD.,
“WINNERS OF GOLD MEDALS FOR FURNITURE ”
FRANCO-BRITISH EXPOSITION 1908 AND PANAMA-
PACIFIC EXPOSITION 1915.
The Big BlocK, BRISBANE.
m
8*
Ji
V,s
I!?'*
IN BANANA LAND
Next to the veteran Charlie Campbell,
M.L.C., of Jondaryan, Councillor A. Prout,
of Belmont, a shire on the outskirts of Bris-
bane, holds the Bananaland municipal
record. He has just been unanimously
elected chairman for the twelfth time. And
that was the sixth time in succession.
Judge Macnaughton’s transfer to the
newly-established Arbitration Court and the
death of District Court Judge Arthur Rut-
ledge leaves vacant two judgeships. Fred
Dickson, Crown Prosecutor, whose sugar
award thrown .the industry into con-
fusion, is tipped for one tuft of the coveted
horsehair. There'is a scramble for the other.
“Half Moon”: Apparently there is no
escaping Defence Department waste and
muddle. On the wharf here at Thursday
Island, as I write, there are awaiting ship-
ment two boilers, a condenser and sundry
pumps and cases of machinery, weighing
about 16 tons in all. They are the derelict
parts of a plant erected at the shore end of
the Government jetty some two years ago,
amid the guffaws of the whole island, to
distil seawater for troops. It proved abso-
lutely useless, as far as quantity went, any-
way, was discarded in a few weeks, and is
now being sent to Queenscliff (Vic.). To
shift and re-erect will cost another £400;
and it would be cheaper to blow the Last
Post and sink the rusty ironmongery in»4o
fathoms.
“W.C.M.”: “Murkah” (B. 15/2/’l7)
wants to come to Brisbane for electric light-
ing in railway carriages. Practically every
suburban train and most long-distance ones
have scrapped gas and use electric light.
Batteries are used ; these are charged at the
railway works, where probably the most up-
to-date electric plant iu Australia has been
installed. The Sydney mail is easily the
most comfortable train in Australia. Every
coach has electric fans, electric light and
numbered soais for second as well as first
classes; the parlor car is installed with arm-
chairs, iced filtered water and small tables;
in summer the traveller can hire an ice-chest
and in winter a rug and a pillow ; and if he
travels in a sleeper he has a small electric
night-light placed comfortably for reading.
On the other long-distance lines we are
gradually climbing to this standard. Of
Course, the system isn’t perfect—the coal
used is filthy, and a day of a Queensland
train is like a day in a cofll-mine. But some-
how we get used to that and miss the other
comforts when we go south.
“Cubbie”: The Government has been ad-
vertising for two new civil servants. The
, manager of the new State fish industry,
which is to supply all Queensland with sea-
product, will receive £7 a week. A chap to
run the State pub at Babiuda will have £9
a week. Now, which job do you think is
intended for a politicianV
“Warrego Bill”: “D.F.” (B. 15/2/’l7j
reminds me of a peculiar happening on the
Blackall Range in 1909. A farmer on top
of the range had a., acre of strawberries
which were much coveted by his neighbor at
the foot of the hill. The owner was always
flinging his strawberries in his neighbor’s
teeth, so to speak, hut always without pluck-
ing them. One morning, however, he woke
up to find the whole plot gone. There had
been heavy rain for days, and a landslide
during the night had taken the whole block
to the bottom of the ridge. The covetous
neighbor got some of the patch, and the two
are still arguing.
“A 0.T.” : It would be well if some atten-
tion were directed to the sandfly pest. At
one place, within 35 miles of Rockhampton,
owing to abnormal rain settlers are having
an abominable time. Around Aramac the
sandflies are playing the devil with the mar-
WAR EXPERIENCES.
THE GIRL: “I suppose you saw some close things at the .Front?”
THE RETURNED HERO: “Rather! There was McDougall, of our battalion-I think he
was the closest.”
supials. A station-owner rode across §0 to
100 dead kangaroos in one of his paddocks.
The sandflies get into the nostrils, ears,
eyes and mouth, and absolutely worry the
’roos to death. Bush horses are nearly
driven mad, and many have become rat-
tailed through the fly-whisk falling out.
Large, smoky fires seem to he the only things
the vicious insects won’t attack.
Jim Stopford, M.L.A.' for Mt. Morgan,
steps on to the Bananaland Public Works
Commission vice Alf Jones, promoted to a
Ministerial job. Stopford is one of the very
few decent speakers in the Assembly, and
has good knowledge of mining and. indus-
trial matters. He would have been a strong
candidate for the vacant portfolio, only
Caucus insisted that the new Minister must
take Bill Hamilton’s job as rep. of the Gov-
ernment in the House of Ancients. The
result of this condition was that there were
only three candidates —Alf Jones, Bertram
and John May.
“Cobba-Cobba” : Cooktown has the latest
in boarding houses. The proprietor, a black
brother, has up the following notice: —
THIS IS A BOARDING HOUSE. I PAY THE
RATES. Any man stop here pay me one shilling
one njght. He bring blanket and sleep along floor.
He must pay first time. Suppose he got no blanket
he can still sleep along floor.
The establishment is well patronised by the
colored population. Two gramophones are
going constantly and serve to keep the
lodgers respectably at home
The Queensland Cowleys are a gritty lot.
Two of the knighted Alfred’s nephews have
distinguished themselves as fighters in Africa
and Mesopotamia, while the old politician’s
grand-nephew, Errol Cowley, horn on the
Herbert River, was wounded in Gallipoli
and finally passed out the other day at
El Arish. Altogether the ex-Speaker has
14 sons and nephews serving with the Brit-
ish and Dominion forces. The family pro-
bably derives its fighting spirit from a
pioneer South African parson who expounded
the Word in Natal a couple of generations
ago.
“A.W.” on the Italian in the North:—
Not even the English population residing in- the
rich sugar-lands of the Johnstone River and its
neighboring streams see that these places are fast
becoming a new Italy. The districts have a large
British population, it is true, but it is only a float-
ing population. As a rule the Britisher inhabits
these parts only while cane-cutting is in full swing,
when he works under a guarantee of a pound a day
and keep, but usually earns much more. After col-
lecting his cheque he flits.
The reason the Italians are so successful is that
they understand the meaning of co-operation. They
are the most united of any people when in foreign
communities. They pool their capital after a couple
of years’ cutting, form a company and buy a farm;
and in a few seasons the seller is surprised to find
they are in a position to pay him off. With the
proceeds of their first farm they acquire more land,
and soon they break into couples and take farms.
At present Italian clubs are being- formed in the
various centres, but whether they intend to embrace
politics in their curriculum is not known; if it is
so it will he interesting to watch results. On
llie whole they are a very estimable people,
though very uneducated. But the system under which
they work constitutes a national danger, inasmuch
as, living in communities apart from the rest of
the people, they remain Italians. How to turn them
into Australians is a problem that needs tackling.
“Redbank”: The recent Brisbane meat-
works strike reached the limit. The union
applied for a variation of the existing award,
This appeal was to come before the Arbitra-
tion Court last week, but the men decided
to hurry things along and resort to direct
action. So one morning the whistle was
sounded at all the works, and all hands
from slaughtermen to firemen left their jobs
immediately. The butchers did not even
finish the work which they had in hand, but
left carcases on the floors. In the killing
process it is the custom to stun the beasts on
the head with a hammer, thus paralysing
their legs. They then fall and are thrown
on to a table, where they are despatched by
the butchers. On the morning of the strike
some animals so stunned were allowed to
remain in that state, the strikers treating
the beasts with the same contempt as they
do the arbitration laws.
Brothers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They fought for you ; they bought for you
A deathless shining name;
And some were young—ah, Christ, how young!—
The men who played the game!
Brothers? Yes, at football, when the umpire’s whistle
blew.
Comrades? Yes, out sailing, when the scudding,
white foam flew.
Pals? _ AVell, yes, at dances, by the standard that’s
your own.
But when it came to facing death, you let them stand
alone.
They’d played with you, they’d stayed with you
At games of chance and skill;
They left it all to fight for you,
And some are fighting still.
Brothers? Yes, your brothers, as the transport wore
to sea,
And your cheers that sped them outwards rang true
and lustily.
But later, when they called to you for help, and
called again,
Where was your vaunted brotherhood—wlicre was
your palship then?
They deemed you true, believed in you ;
Your pride was as their own ;
How have you answered to their trust?
How was your honor shown?
You daily read the story of their work across the
sea,
Of the bloody track to glory that they blazed for
you and me.
Was the 'sob that struggled upwards just emotion
loosely pent ?
Was your brotherhood not strong enough to stand by
what it meant?
They bled for you—they’re dead for you.
Through worlds their names shall ring.
Do you find your boasted brotherhood
A satisfying thing?
QUEENSLAND.
K. SMYTH.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 17, 1917.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
Mrs. George Lee, wife of the departing
State Commandant, has been the guest at
several teas this week. To go into some
details, a number of Red Cross 'woman-
workers fed her at the Coo-ee Cafe on
Wednesday afternoon, and gave her a little
keepsake. Another bun-tumble and presen-
tation was managed by the Women’s Mutual
Service Club.
Talking about patriotic women workers,
the local female recruiting committee is
about to firmly speak to the Premier and
demand that racecourses and the fight
Stadium should be closed. The idea is, I
understand, that the slacker, not be : ag able
to go and “do his bit” on the field of sport,
will go and do it on the field of mort. There
arc some sanguine folk at large, my dear.
In response to the Y.M.C.A.’s appeal for
£21,000 to make Billjim more comfortable,
the good Bananalanders sparked i.p £23,500.
The Citizens’ National Appeal Committee
and the conveners of Red Triangle Day cele-
brated the clean-up at a social evening. One
of the features of the programme was tire
recital of some episodes in the life of “The
Sentimental Bloke,” by a young lady who
declaimed in the tragic accents of a Lady
Macbeth. What the late lamented Ginger
Mick would have said I dare not think.
Billjim’s missus is following the bad
example of Tommy Atkins’s olfsider —wast-
ing money on “fortune-tellers” and spook
harpies. In addition to filching the not-too-
much war-pay that comes Mrs. Billjim’s
way, these parasites cause much mental
distress. I understand that the fraud comes
under the Crimes Act, but as 'the police are
so busy either compiling rolls or lying in
wait on the chance of capturing a publican
selling a glass of beer at (3.1 p.m., help
from that quarter is hardly to be expected.
Lieut. Alec Frater, son of Barbara Bayn-
ton, is in a London hospital, having been
wounded in Salonika. Young Frater was
manager of the Brisbane Law Book Co. a
pal of his, barrister Tom Macleod, now
qualified as a full-fledged flight-commander
in the R.F.C., tonicked him with a visit
when on furlough.
A subscription-list has been unfolded for
the purpose of raising the wherewithal to
perpetuate the memory of Emma Miller, the
Grand Old Lady of the Labor movement in
Queensland. Probably the memorial will be
in the form of a bust, of either bronze or
marble, to be placed in the Trades Hall.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


mm * * „ fm
mz
m
—...
::::
HEt
. »«*«<&■&*
V. - x.
■
tfAW
*
JK?k
•" ■ ' >:
■ .- ; :•; .
'.S.
V*
* m x>
J
:SsLn
'Zi
*az
■:': '■■■
Studebaker Cars are popular with the theatrical profession. In the photograph reproduced above Miss Dorothy Brunton drives the
“Four” and Miss Connie Ediss the “Six,” whilst a bevy of beauty from the chorus of Williamson’s Company occupy the tonneau*.
tm l
What is Your Ideal of a
Motor-car?
IS it reliability that impresses you most, or are you attracted by •
the kind of service that is behind a particular carP At least
two or three distinctive features will be found in almost any car
made to-day. But in a Studebaker you find Speed with safety,
Power with ECONOMY, Comfort with convenience, Luxury
without ostentation, simplicity, ease of operation, low cost of
maintenance, in fact every quality of the ideal motor-car. They are
all combined in a new model Studebaker.
And the reason is simply that Studebaker Cars are designed with a
thorough knowledge of what YOU, the owner, desire in your car —
built to give you what you look for and to give the MOST that you
can possibly get from any car.
Let us show you what Studebaker Cars offer.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd
Head Office and Showroom : 177 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Oarage, Workshops and Warehouse: GLENHORE ROAD, SYDNEY.
State Importers: VICTORIA—Messrs. TURNER BROS., 398 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—THE CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LTD., 95=99 Pulteney Street, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—THE ARHSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, PERTH.
TASMANIA—W. GAHAGAN, Collins Street, HOBART ; CORRICK’S GARAGE, Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON.
NEvV ZEALAND—ADAMS LTD., CHRISTCHURCH.


Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins tc
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter's Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for,
man, woman
and child.
hdf
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Doso — Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
hdf
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS,
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession —.
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug' Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON &. CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
lH
Don't forget to use
H
to - night—and again
in the morning.
You will find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the teeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by local hemists and Stores.
Mad; by F. C. CAI.VFRT & CO.,
Manchester, England.
The Lake Breeze Motor
h
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
‘per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S* GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on * Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
£<v
and a
Money Saver
Barnet Glass Tyres
are superior to * im-
ported Tyres in
quality and weight,
and at the same time
cost you 1 ss.
BARNET GLASS
MOTOR TYRES
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C9LTP
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia,
BRANCHES IN ALL AUSTRALIAN CENTRES
9 9
/ m
EASY SHAVING
no longer a
Barber’s Secret
Men with tough, wiry beards; men with tender
faces; men who worry the best barber while shaving
them; men who could never before hone a razor into
decent shape, are writing us every day about the smooth,
easy shaves they are getting with the Perforated Hone,
The Perforated Hone is the only one made that can be used
by the ordinary man; Use your finest blade or yonr poorest, give a
few strokes or hone all day, the result will be the same —a perfect
shave. The perforations prevent wire-edge and make it
impossible for you to over-net your razor. They automat-
' cally'produce a perfect, keen shaving edge." The Perforated Hone is mads
from an exceptionally fine natural stone found in British Columbia. It lasts f
lifetime.
Keeps New Razors Keen and True.
Try one —if it doesn’t make your razor shave to your satis-
, faction return it to us and get your money back.
Sold everywhere at 4/» » or post free 4/4> from
Tlie Perforated Hone Co.,
f Dept. 16-123 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. [1
ism
gar
AM*
2/4
iLZ
32
r-m
o
gas?
h
(W»»g
<B*
!
• O C
! v*v<;,v3
■**•?* v..?w
■' "fcAiV.?Sl*:/>
iaan
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. Hava been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHO-FEktNE lO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERiNE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Phosfcriuc
Proven Remedy
FOR
N eur as thenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h*s received such absolu'e proof of it*
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Li r e aid Energy
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. CORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health whites:
“I have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons* Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES, M.D., C.M.,
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton [& Parsons Ltd, of London, Would appreciate your courtesy! If, belhg
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the cost of postage
I i refunded to you. I I
L*
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your, fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“Saint” : The air of Ohura, a settlement
in Taranaki (ML.), seems to be particu-
larly fatal to doctors. When Dr. Dunck
left there per medium of an overdose of
chloral a few days ago, he made the third
local medico to die by his own hand within
live years.
“Trallwm”: They were discussing the
newly-a'ppointed Gardens Committee- of the
local council. “Smith, Brown, Jones !” said
Higginbotham, “what the devil do they know
about gardens?” “Oh, well,” said Moles-
wortli, “Brown’s daughter is a milliner, you
know !”
“Xela”: The newest union, “The Radio-
Telegraphists’ (Marine) Institute of Aus-
tralasia,” is the first formed anywhere by
professional wireless operators. Young as
it is, it already records a strike (which was
merely technical), an Arbitration Court con-
ference, and an improved scale of wages
and conditions for its members. Its only
bad point is the fearful name it is stagger-
ing under.
“Ring Off”: This daylight slaving is no’
good to me. . Went to work one morning.
Didn’t know the time because the clock
had stopped. When. I got there the boss
wanted to know what was the matter. “You
are two hours early,” he said. “You’d
better go home again for a while.” I did.
When I reached home I went around the
back. The missus was washing, so without
saying a word I went up to her and tickled
her in the ribs. “Oh, baker,” she said,
“you are early.”
llow the shirker will work to make
shirkers out of workers! Down at Cordeaux
Dam—a big. N.S.W. job.—the I.W.W. has
put in many laborious hours carving “Go
Slow” appeals on trees. Wanderers in the
bush are entreated to “Go slow. If you
work hard you will die soon”—all done in
stringybark. Any lad who has laboriously
cut his three initials on a hardwood plank
will at least admire the staying power of
the loafers who carved all that in tough
Australian timber.
The other day the Patriotic Committee of
Rainbow, outback in the Mallee, put in its
annual balance-sheet, and this is how it
read :
Amounts raised from various sources.
Carnivals, wheat, bazaars, contribu-
tions, etc. .. ... .. ..£4312 2 0
Total expenses. Advertising, labor, hire
of halls, printing, etc. (no taxis) .. 72 11 0
Amount disbursed to various funds ..£4239 11 0
Some people ought to write to Rainbow and
ask how it’s done —if they want to know.
“Adelaide”: The crowds that saw
“Damaged Goods” in this city were quite
two-thirds women. And they mostly sat
silent and shocked, as if the ground were
opening under their feet to reveal the world
as a place of unsuspected horrors. For
years to come many an excellent male citi-
zen, whenever he may have the most inno-
cent occasion for calling in a doctor, is go-
ing to find himself looked at sideways by
the recently-enlightened woman members of
his family.
Melbourne Herald (G/2/’l < ) answered
the question in its legal, column as follows :
Words spoken and published of any woman imput-
ing to her want of chastity are actionable, but we
do not think that the statement “She has a star
boarder” conveys any such imputation.
Thank Heaven, that's settled!
Sometime during the last week in January
a few hundred tins of cigarettes were stolen
from a Commonwealth transport at Port
Melbourne. But the Defence Department has
now explained things. Transports are con-
tinually under the supervision of inspectors ;
therefore robbery “must be a difficult
matter.” Seeing that the door of the store-
room was not forced, the Department sup-
poses that “an entrance was effected through
the ammunition-room.” So, if ever an ex-
plosion occurs on a transport, it will be a
fair thing to assume that a cigarette thief
has been enjoying a smoke in the place
where the ammunition is stored. The Defence
Department’s genius for making explanations
is almost as conspicuous as its genius for
doing things that don’t need explanation.
The sea hath its perils. The Peruvian
barque Lorton, recently reported sunk
by a Hun submarine, might as well, after
all, have ceased her struggles in Waterloo
Bay, on the Vic. coast. At the end of
1915 she was staggering along with a cargo
of horse-feed when the sea became un-
reasonable and forced her to look for a
sheltered spot. She crept into Waterloo
and was lying there when the wind whipped
round and drove her up against a rocky
ledge. The bows were badly damaged, and
some of the oats had been collected by D.
Jones when the collier Kooringa looked in
and towed her to Melbourne. After a big
docking bill had been paid there was an
unrenumerative four months at a Williams-
town anchorage and then another visit to
the ship-doctor’s. A big slice of the profits
of subsequent months must have been de-
voted to paying medical expenses. Then
up pops the cold, grey Hun, and the torpedo
streaks home.
Another argument in favor of an official
classification of all the aliens and people of
alien parentage in Australia can be deduced
from a circular issued by 11. B. Selby and
Co., of Sydney and Melbourne. This firm
was lately known as 11. B. Silberberg and
Co., but its German name was found to be
highly undesirable after the war broke out.
And what are the facts about the name? The
father of Silberberg was the son of a couple,
born in Warsaw, who came to Australia 70
years ago; and the 11. B. Silberberg of the
present generation is as much Australian as
anybody in the country. He should have
been in a position to publish a Government
guarantee of his Australian character on his
brass plate and billheads. Not having this
means of proving himself, he is forced to
change his name. Yet the same Government
which leaves a son of Australian-born
parents without an easy means of showing
that he is not the foreigner his name makes
him out to be—well, the same Government
allowed a German spy like Eichengrun, of
the Continental Tyre Co., to wear the alias
of Edwards and take the rank of captain
in the Defence Forces.


Do you feel out of humor and think
that everyone has a grudge against you,
because everything seems to be going
wrong? It is you that is “wrong,” and it
is your liver that has the grudge against
you—possibly because you are not treat-
ing it well. You have given it too much
work to do, and when it wanted a gentle
laxative to set it right you neglected to
attend to it. To set your liver right, to
make things go well, and to make your-
self feel good all over’, take a course of
Chamberlain's Tablets and you will be
inore than pleased with the result. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets ate unsurpassed for
irritability.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are purely vege-
table. and contain no Ingredient that
tan in any way be injurious to the most
delicate person. Their action is mild and
gentle, without any of the painful sensa-
tions experienced by the Use Of pills,
Chamberlain's Tablets act as a tonic,
strengthen the System and assist the
natural movement df the bowels.
The mOst connnon cause of constipa-
tion is d lack of fekefcise necessary to
keep the muscieS. of the. bowels active.
That is why constipation is often brought
on by too frequent use 6f purgatives).
They act violently, performing the work
of the bowels for them, and so weaken
them that they will not act without
assistance. Chamberlain’s Tablets will
cure constipation because, instead of
doing the work of the bowels, they gently
stimulate them to voluntary action.
Their frequent use will not injure the
most delicate person.
Indigestion means imperfect nourish-
ment. and that means poor health. In
these days of strenuous competition it is
the healthy man who wins. Nothing
equals Chamberlain’s Tablets for clearing
the stomach of undigested food and pro-
moting a flow of gastric juices which are
indispensable in the process of digest’on.
Indigestion always produces a tendency
to constipation, and for this alone Cham-
berlain’s Tablets are Invaluable.
DO NOT BE BEHIND THE TIMES,
but move with them. Salts, castor-oil
and harsh purgatives are out of date,
and have, been the cause of many- a case
of constipation. Chamberlain’s Tablets
are the that you want to take.
They cure constipation, indigestion, bili-
ousness. and cure them permanently.
Remember the name—Chamberlain’s
Tablets—and be sure you get them, for
there is nothing “just as good.”
NEVER FORGET that upon your
physical condition depends your comfort
and usefulness. That your condition will
be bettered, your figure increased, when
your bowels are regulated, your liver
stimulated and your digestion made
sound by taking Chamberlain’s Tablets
for the stomach and liver.
The old saying, “Coming events cast
their shadows before.” is especially true
of a bilious attack. You will have warn-
ing of its approach. Your appetite will
fail, you will feel dull and languid and
have a feeling of nausea. As soon as any
of these symptoms appear take three of
Chamberlain’s Tablets and the attack
may be warded off. By taking a course
of Chamberlain’s Tablets you will be
permanently relieved of ali bilious ten-
dencies.
M hen the liver and bowels don’t act,
life is a failure. Chamberlain’s Tablets
wake these drowsy organs, like the sun
wakes the earth, and the whole body
laughs. It is fun to live when the body
is in good trim, but it is never so when
the liver and bowels shirk duty. There
is more happiness in a Is. 6d. box of
Chamberlain’s Tablets than you ever
dreamed of. They stimulate the nervous
system and make you feel young again.
'CI
r
' c
J
LIVERGMF'tI PICTURES
BY
CHAMBERLAINS
Tablets -
A Doctor’s first question is—How are your bowels ?
Trace the origin of the common ills of
life and almost invariably you will find
that constipation was the cause.
It is not to be expected that a mass of
fermented food can remain in the system
beyond its time without vitiating the
blood and affecting the nerves and
muscles. It congests the entire body.
The results are colds, fevers, piles,
headaches and nervousness, with its
accompanying indigestion and sleep-
lessness.
There is only one thing to do, and
that is to remove the trouble ; and when
Nature seems unable to do it. outside
aid is necessary. You will find the best
of all outside aid is Chamberlain’s
Tablets.
Many thousands are now using Cham-
berlain’s Tablets for this very purpose.
Chamberlain’s Tablets have untold
advantages over pills, salts and various
harsh cathartics and purgatives that
only do temporary good,
Chamberlain’s Tablets are mild and
gentle in their action and instead of
weakening the bowels they strengthen
them to act naturally without assistance.
When you want a pleasant physic
give Chamberlain’s Tablets a trial you
will be more than pleased with the
result.
They are intended especially for dis-
orders of the stomach, liver and bowels
and for heartburn, indigestion, or consti-
pation there is nothing to equal
CfIAMBERLAINS lABLETS
Jhr the Stomach o Liver.
By allowing yourself to necome consti-
pated you are slowly and surely poisoning
yourself. When the bowels perform
their work they expel all poisonous mat-
ter, but when you allow yourself to
become constipated you absorb all this
poison into your system, thus laying the
seeds of many diseases. Some of the
signs of self-poisoning are headache, back-
ache, languidness, weariness, melancholy,
furred tongue, pasty complexion, loss of
appetite, etc. The safest antidote to such
poison is Chamberlain’s Tablets. These
Tablets stimulate the liver and bowels to
act naturally and gently. In doing so
they cleanse the stomach and purify the
blood.
NO. NEVER! A man with a healthy
liver does not contract diseases. During
recent epidemics in various parts of the
world thousands of people protected them-
selves by keeping their livers healthy and.
active by the use of Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets.
When the food leaves the stomach
without having gone through the requisite
process, as happens in cases of indiges-
tion, it is impossible for the liver to com-
plete the work. Therefore, look to your
stomach—strengthen and stimulate it to
perform its functions. There is no better
medicine for* this than Chamberlain’s
Tablets. Chamberlain’s Tablets will
cleanse your stomach of all undigested
food and restore it to a healthy condi-
tion.
If your liver is sluggish and out of
tone, and you feel dull, bilious, consti-
pated, take a dose of Chamberlain’s
Tablets to-night before retiring, and you
will feel all right in the morning.
to***
ImFI
PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS an i WORKMANSHI
On
V
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
:
s*i
SAXTON & BINNS’ NEW TUG “SAXO.’
60-h.p. “SKANDIA” ENGINE.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
dfh
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the >
Manager, who will quote you price, for it. !
r:.
*r.
~j;'
K-
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which yon
are interested and full particulars will come to you by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence at Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
fd
hdf
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TAIUFP from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the clay from os.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens. a
Seven
Prize IVJedals,
Works : Rii»mingham, England
hdf
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
" THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
The
Correct
Feeding of
Infants
NO attempt to provide a
correct system for the
progressive feeding of
Infants was ever successfully
carried out until the ‘Allcn-
burys’ series of Infants’ Foods
were introduced. So successful
have the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
Nos. I, 2 and 3 proved, that
whenever a child is denied the
privilege of the mother’s
they are indispensable. Gratifying evidence
of their remarkable value in the feeding
of infants from birth is constantly coming
to hand. The following is a copy of one
of many such voluntary letters received
from Medical Men, Nurses and Parents
resident in nearly all parts Of the world.
A NURSE WRITES:
“I am pleased to say I have used your Foods 1,2 and 3 Cor the
last twenty years and have found none better. The
most delicate toaby ever born I nursed and reared on the
Foods until he was 3 years old, and now he is 18 YEARS, and
a strong headthy boy nearly 6 leet high and as rosy as an
apple. You can make whatever use you like of this as I
should like your Foods and other things to be more used in
future, as instead of making fat alone they make
bone and muscle, which is what children need.
(Signed) NURSE DAVIE,
The practical results from a continually extending use of the
‘Allenburys’ Foods, prove beyond doubt that children thrive excep-
tionally well on them. Such children arc healthy and well grown; the
flesh is firm, without excess of fat and the formation of bone is solid.
m
JHknburg slfcD ds
The Best Alternative to Human Milk.
wsrroeo
Bnt Henburu
MILK FOOD No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Nr** 7 '
®Mr#o»
knanburo
r*?;
MILK FOOD No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks (Malted).
A useful addition to baby’s dietary when 10 months old and after.
Writefor tree booh Feeding and Management,”
S 4 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market Street, Sydney.
Established 1715.
h
fh
Remington
.44 Calibre Repeaters
will give you more value for your money
than any other arm. Proportionate to
their calibre, power and penetration, the
Remington UMC .44 Cartridges are the
most economical to use.
These Repeaters have a number of exclusive
features that it will pay you to investigate.
In case your dealer cannot supply you, send
for special booklet post free.
The Remington Arms Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
V)
N
S
>
IU
%
PS
WRIGLEYS
Famous Chewing Sweet
44 The Flavour Lasts"
It cleanses the teeth—sweetens the
mouth—allays thirst and fatigue.
Soldiers in Europe are finding it a
great comfort.
It gives them vim
and staying power.
Send some to your
soldier or sailor.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
3d. per packet of 5 big
bars from Chemists, Cor?’
fectioners and other
stores. Or send 3 penny
stamps to J. C. Gambles
& Coy, Commerce Hous ,
Melbourne, sole Aus.
Agents.
Chew it
after
every
meal
&
a
A
[The
AVOR
I
i
0
WRIGLEYS^
SPEARMINT
i
A 2
THE PERFECT GUMrkSXS
'/V/ '+***i?j*J*i 1
SEALED TIGHT KEPT RIGHT
PvnMimm
DOUBLEMINT^
TCHEWINGeyMT
w^/r/zas
77
The Stillest Beard
can be shaved with the greatest ease if you use
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
You will swear by the “Plum” once you experience
its keen-cutting, perfectly tempered edge.
PRICE 10/6-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established, over 30 years.
as
MA
It's a Masterpiece—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
minimi
T
Make Your
Own Cans.
We have machines exactly suited to
your needs, whether your output is 5000
or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obliga-
tion, prices and pictures of machines
adapted to your needs. Send us sapiples
of your cans, or drawings with com-
plete dimensions, and state the quantity
you make.
Correspondence in all Languages.
Address Dept. C-14.
The Max Ams Machine Company
Bridgeport, Conri?^
Agent: H. W. Peabody & Co., Sydm


INER
SKIN TORTURES
fh
When a post-
card will
bring free
samples of
CUTICURA
SOAP
and Ointment
which give
quick relief
and point to
speedy cure
when all else
fails. Why not
w mien
ree sample each address postcard:
o'?,, * own s & Company, Sydney, N. S. W.”
Sold throughout the world.
“Well gentlemen I take
off my hat to you,—
f
such a beautifully
made rifle and such
shooting I never
expected to see...
Up to 800 yards I
could hit anything
I shot at... I killed
a big bull, over 500
yards away, and did
it so easy ... The
4 RoBB ’ is good
enough for me... It
has a nice balance,
is light and has a
nice feel to it. I
will say to anyone who is looking for the
best thing in Rifles get a ‘Ross’ .280,
and you will never be disappointed.”
JAS. L. McLAUGHLIN, Hunter and Guide,
Valley, Wyoming.
In his enthusiastic praise of the Ross .280
Rifle, Mr. McLaughlin echoes the apprecia-
tion of the most skilled of the big game
hunters all over the world. Using the .280
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper tube
expanding bullet ( patented ) it is a wonderful
help towards a successful trip. Any game
fairly hit is anchored. j Ol5
AT LEADING DEALERS
Illustrated catalogue sent on request.
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
EIEY
CARTRI DGESs
Always Reliable
/
a
mL
wmewi
hf
ELEY ‘Comet’
A deep-shell, dark green
cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 grain) Smokeless Powder
and ljfa oz. shot.
ELEY 32
S. & W.
Revolver
hf
h
ELEY
25
Automatic
ELEY 310
Cadet Smokeless
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L" LONDON
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract, from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
n nd full information without delay.
Literature Free by Post from Nearest Agency or Depot.
Agency for
Motor Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Gutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd.,
279 Ceorge St.,
Sydney.
Cord Tykes
Agency for
Motor Cycle and
Cycle Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Work 9
Co., Ltd,,
279 George St.,
Sydney.
—hard - wearing, trouble ■ free
These Palmer Cords are what you need for Colonial roads—tyre-muscles
with strength to govern the highest pressure-strain evenly, yet elastic
Made in all
size*, with
the three-
ribbed rub-
ber and
the steel-
• tudde d
treads.
enough to transmit full engine power.
Canvas linings waste power by
creating internal friction. So much
so that Palmer Cord Tyres economise
10% of the Petrol.
(Vide Brooklands Test).
PALMER CORD TYRES
are mace for light and heavy Motor Cars,
Cycle Cars, Motor Cycles and Aeroplanes.
PALMER FABRIC
forms the reinforcement of the lower-
priced Motor Cycle Tyres, of all Cycle
Sres, and also of Auto-Wheel Tyres.
e Palmer Patent Cord is a development
from it.
Palmer Fabric consists of parallel threads
insulated from one another in pure rubber.
They cannot cross, or
chafe, or sag.
Palmer Patent Cords
follow the same idea, cords
replacing threads. Each
cord is built up of many
unit threads, all insulated
in pure rubber.
The PALMER TYRE, Chief Offices, 119 to 123, Shaftesbury Av. # London,
Palmer Cycle Tyre Users are
cautioned in their interests to
purchase only Tyres bearing
this mark. Disappointment
follows this neglect.
mark
TRADE
*1
No Cycle Tyre Cover is a
genuine Palmer Cover unless it
bears this Trade Mark clearly
moulded on the side. (5) Op
'J'HE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness” and well-being.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote :—"lmpoverished blood can be made rich and good
by means 0/ Iron ‘ Jelloids,’ the most effective and desirable treatment.’’
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON -JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by The 'Jelloid' Co.. 205. City Road. London, England.
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
uncemia
horiMoLKHW
(pronouncedJelWoydi) ..^edk
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
“Swan Safety
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
fh
The
Soldiers’
Pen
Catalogue free on request.
MArtlE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
4ustralian Branch (Wholesale only): J, A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
The Inky Way.
Some men camp on the Inky Way. One
of these was Francis Mackenzie, an old-time
Sydney comp, who drifted to Maoriland in
the ’7o’s, and started the Kawakawa Lumi-
kaiiy. There are any number of people who
don’t know where Kawakawa is—and they
are none the worse for it. But in the long
ago Mackenzie reckoned it was going to be
the hub of the universe, and when it didn’t
he just stayed on and turned the Archime-
dean lever once a week. He went on doing
it for 35 long, mouldy years, while the
Luminary spread joy and optimism among
the bush-whackers and put in a punch on
behalf of a new culvert or something. Occa-
sfonally when Mac had consumed a haggis
the Luminary glowed with an effulgence
that made it the most joyous thing in Eng-
lish literature. The old man struck camp
the other day and went West.
* * * *
“Musketoon” : It was stop press on Feb.
6at Forbes (N.S.W.) for Alfred Short, an
old pilgrim on the Inky Way. Time, 03.
In his early years he helped the Age, and
two of his brothers. Harry, present editor of
the Leader, and Charlie, who’passed from
the London office of the Age to the next
world some years ago, were with him. Mar-
cus Clarke and Alfred were bosom -friends,
and I believe it’s right that Alfred had to
potter about with some of the hasty MS. of
“His Natural Life.”
* * * #
“Lou” : Jack Curtain, who has gone from
Melbourne to take charge of Westralian
Worker, is a product of the Victorian
Socialist party. While secretary of the
Timber Workers’ Union he got a bit of lime-
light through being the first man to openly
advocate the go-slow lunacy. He unsuccess-
fully opposed Willie Watt for Balaclava at
the iast dust-up ; did some A.W.U. organising ;
made a lot of noise in the recent Anti-Con-
scription campaign; and got himself arrested
under the proclamation. He is young, one
of the best of the Socialist party’s platform
men, and a first-rate fighter with the mild
appearance of a curate.
“D.F.”: Hobart Mercury has always
treated the Speck’s Parliament with much
reverence, but when the Assembly, for the
first time in its history, recently shut the
Mercury reporters .out of the gallery
because a leader-writer had criticised some
of the members in connection with the pro-
posed Latrobe-Eailton oil-property purchase,
things promptly changed. The Mercury is
usually dull and solid enough all over, but
it got quite lively in describing some Par-
liamentary high jinks on the last night of
the session. A weary member fell off into
a very sound sleep, whereon half a dozen
giddy legislators put a cross at his head,
scattered white flowers over him, and talked
of holding a wake, but dropped the idea
because they could not find any candles.
And the Mercury got back on Parliament
by telling it all to the members’ staid con-
stituents.
* * * *
On the Inky Way, too, Billjim’s sister
is doing her little bit. When Gillies, of
the Atherton (Q.) Examiner, went in pur-
suit of the Hun his sister demanded the
pen and. shears. She’s making a good fist
of it, too.
* * * *
“Copy Boy”: Bill Turner, chief of staff
of the Vic. Provincial Daily Press Assoc.,
has just had his jubilee as a pressman. He
Started on the Ballarat Evening Post 50
years back, combining the jobs of cub re-
porter and publisher; then, joined the
Sportsman when it was started in Mel-
bourne, and remained with it till its death.
Incidentally, he found' time and energy for
sundry sports. He was for years chairman
of Bowes Tattersall’s Club, and promoted
the first six-days’ bicycle orgy held in Mel-
bourne, the old, high “boneshakers” being
then in use.
* * * *
Cyril White, who has just won the Mili-
tary Cross in France, is one of the younger
Melbourne artists, and is well known and
liked. When he went to the war he stowed
a few pencils and brushes in his kit, and
kept his hand in. He has had quite a lot
of work taken by London Bystander.
“Melb”: Talking of Marcus Clarke’s
“Natural Life” running through just-dead
printer Massina’s Australian Journal
four times, I recollect only one other similar
English case. It was a story by J. F. Smith
and it was printed twice in the London
Journal. I think Sue’s “Mysteries of Paris”
was treated likewise.
LINES WRITTEN ON A VERY WET DAY, IN A
ROOM OF “THE BULLETIN” OFFICE, LOOKING
DOWN ON DRENCHED GEORGE-STREET, IN
THE INTERVALS OF INTERVIEWING DANK
POETS AND WRITING WET CRITICISMS OF
WEARY WAR BOOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The rain ! The rain interminably drips,
And silver raindrops make toboggan trips
Along the sagging wires ; then comes a wreck
And, splosh ! they trickle down a groper’s neck.
The rain just rains; impassively it flops
On cabbies, chimneys, caterpillars, cops;
It pencils on the air grey slanting strokes,
Obliterating butchers’ carts and blokes.
Below, the trams, like Zeppelins from on’ high,
Transformed to slimy slugs creep slowly by ;
Like cockroaches the motors come and go;
Umbrellas like black beetles to and fro
Absurdly- slither, and, amid the sploshes
Of mud, behold the footprints of goloshes!
In one dark corner of my room I see
My overcoat that drips remorsefully;
And in the other corner, grim and damp,
.Marooned. in flood, my pessimistic gamp.
Stray storm-swept poets, water-logged, drift in,
With dank, stained lyrics full of purple sin.
They chant me songs of rose and daffodil;
With my tobacco vast wet pipes they fill;
They read me rain-soaked poems full of sorrow,
And then my last remaining match they borrow ;
They sing of naked breasts and passion dumb,
And leave large pools on my linoleum.
And in the bleak and grey deserted street
Outside the pub two mournful strangers meet....
Inside the door they swiftly disappear;
The rain is still on tap, and so is beer.
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


DEPENDABLE GUNS
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing.
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
FIREARMS EMBARGO LIFTED.
The military restriction prohibiting the sale of GUNS, RIFLES,
REVOLVERS AND AMMUNITION having been removed, we can now
supply these goods to the sporting public.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
Bfitish Made. Box of 5, 2/6 post free
824. Boswell’s High-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, *
t2-gauge, i°P lover, Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side
rJoit, chambered for 2$ cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately
engraved; weight about 71b. soz ; Delivered
‘The Reliable,”
clips, Greener X
& 17/10 /
WE STOCK EVERYTHING FOR EVERY SPORT. “Goods Right-Prices Right.”
85. Greener’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, treble wedge, fast
rebounding, 32in. “Siem'en’s” special steel barrels, shooting guaranteed, both full
uait pistol grip, same as above, but no engraving; a splendid pigeon
S un Delivered
action.
choke,
£l4/10/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
Send for our new
edition Sports
and Firearms
Catalogue. Post-
ed free to any
address.
imi i#~
BiB. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-inch steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal-
nut stock ; weight about 71b Delivered
Same as above, but with 32-inck barrels Delivered
£B/7/6
£B/12/e
Sm ° ke Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
df
hfd
h
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about
7Jlb.; of 16-gauge, about 6*lb •. Delivered
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge, 30in. barrels, 7/6 extra.
£.515/-
TD.
HAYMARKET
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KINO STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
a
G*rtain*teed
>
E
Ceriatnieed
Contractors Know That
Certain-teed
Roofing is water-tight and weather-proof.
That it is impervious to the action of heat or cold, of
rain or atmospheric gases. And that it will not
buckle nor blister, crack nor creep!
. You should know more about Certain-teed
—made by the world’s largest manufacturer of roofings
and building paper materials. Our local representa-
tive will gladly supply free samples and literature—and
the name of your nearest distributor. Write, today.
Mr. C. C. McCann, Representative of
General Roofing Manufacturing Company
Perpetual Trustee Building, Sydney, N. S. W.
MILLS IN U. S. A.: East St. Louis, Illinois, Marseilles, Illinois;
York, Pennsylvania; San Francisco, California
LONDON OFFICE: Imperial House, Kingsway, London, W.C.
Distributors: John Danks Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne;
; Sons Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe & Co.. Adelaide.
Jas. Campbell &
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
✓
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dtemvib
Vacuum System
Ssss
■V
Can Your Car
Do This?
Under its own power this car climbed this Open jack-
knife bridge at the angle shown in this picture.
This feat was made possible only by the Stewart
Vacuum System.
A car without one could not do it.
Kvery car so equipped is absolutely sure of a perfect
and positive flow of petrol to the carburetter under
all conditions and on any grade.
With the old gravity system of petrol feed, your car is
dead whenever your carburetter is higher than your
petrol tank.
The pressure system requires endless, troublesome
hand-pumping —keeping air leaks out of the lines,
and often, when most required, it fails.
You need power to climb a steep hill —but you need
more than power —you need a sure, even flow of
petrol to your carburetter at all times.
A Stewart Vacuum System insures this.
It also saves 10 per cent, to 20 per cent, on petrol bills.
It is used by over 60 per cent, of all car manufacturers
* as standard equipment.
It can be installed on your present car (any make or
model).
PRICE £3 151- complete.
Bear in mind in selecting your next car to
see that it is fully equipped with Stewart pro-
ducts; most cars are, and it costs nothing
extra . See that it has a Stewart Tyre Pump,
Stewart Speedometer, Stewart Warning Signal
and Stewart Vacuum System .
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers,
Motor-car Dealers and Garages everywhere,
or write
BENNETT 8 WOOD Ltd.
Exclusive Distributors,
2*4 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
dfh
134 Sussex St.,
SYDNEY.
No car is better than its accessories,
fh
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will ouote you nrice foe it-


“Pas” Caricatures Himself
:: and ::
Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules
it is with mingled emotions that we see how a Cartoonist
caricatures us, for while we think we know ourselves, it some-
times shocks us to see how others see us. The noted Carica-
turist “Pas” (Donald Macdonald) has favored us with a
caricature of himself. He has added a few words, giving his
experience of the use of DR. SHELDON'S DIGESTIVE
TABULES, which we feel sure will carry great weight with
all our readers, coming from this eminent artist.
“My profession demands such alert attention and
close observation that I have freouently, in following a
study, quite forgotten the flight of time. Then hurrying
over meals I have naturally suffered from severe twinges
of indigestion. In New Zealand a leading chemist gave
me some of your Digestive Tabules, and from that time
I have always carried a few in my pocket; and, as anti-
dotes to the effects of worry, I have never known any-
thing like them.” —Yours faithfully.
fd
| Per fed Digestion Means Perfect Health
Dr. Sheldon's-Digestive Tabules are sold everywhere at 1/6 per
tin of 36 Tabules and 2/6 per tin of 80 Tabules. Buy a tin, eat a
good square meal, and (lien take the Tabules according to
directions, and note the result. You will forget all about it if
you are not careful, for there will be no pain or disturbance
and the food will he digested just as it used to be when your
stomach was well and strong. .Furthermore, your stomach will
soon be restored again, if you keep on taking them, just as
thousands upon thousands of other stomachs have been, by the
sole and exclusive use of DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE
TABULES.
J)» SHELDON’S]
Digest]
sgTABULEs
DIGEST
WHAT YOU EAT
Take Your Medicine
Out of a Ball B -g
not out of a bottle,” says Elbert Hubbard.
“What’s that thing, Eoctor?” asked the patient.
“That’s the Medicine Ball I brought for you.”
“Then I’m afraid there’s no hope for me, I could
never swallow that.”
We don’t ask you to swallow anything very difficult when we claim that
<1
D
' W.'® PjR »
n
“REX”
/
Camp Pie
is the Slimmer Meal par excellence.
It is meat, good, palatable, easily digestible—compounded meat —seasoned
and cooked in the latest manner, and ready to eat when you open the tin.
No waste about it —and it is less expensive to buy than Fresh Meat. Slice
it for Sandwiches, or serve with any good Salading.
Order “REX” CAMP PIE from your Grocer.
Enough in each tin for five persons. Also use
“REX”
LUNCHEON CHEESE
for all Summer Sandwiches.
UNCHE
ON
(SKI GEd
2CWfT,J»NESIt:
O' /
£
RE
X
BIUHJ
Also ask for—
“ Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, I*4 lb. tins.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in .Telly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jelly, and 21b. tins.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in ooz. decorated tins
and ooz. enamel jars.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex ” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products ,
The Glug Quest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
FOLLOW the river and cross the ford,
Turn to the left at the notice board,
Follow again to the wobbly bridge,
Climbing the cow-track over the ridge;
Tiptoe soft by the little red house,
Hold your breath if they touch the latch,
Creep to the sliprails, still as a mouse —■
Then....run like mad for the bracken
patch.
Worm your way where the fern-fronds tall
Fashion a lace-work over your head,
Hemming you in with a high, green wall.
Then, when the thrush calls once, stop
dead.
Ask of the old grey wallaby there —
Him prick-eared by the woollybutt tree —
How to discover a Glug, and where
The country of Gosh, famed Gosh, may be.
But if he is scornful, if he is dumb,
Hush! There's another way left. Then
come!
On a white, still night, where the white tree
bends
Over the track like a waiting ghost,
Travel the wee white road that wends
Down to the shore on an Eastern coast.
Follow it down where the wake of the moon
Kisses the ripples of silver sand ;
Follow it down where the night seas croon
A traveller’s tale to the listening land.
Step not jauntily, not too grave,
Till the lip of the languorous sea you
greet;
Wait till the wash of the thirteenth wave
Tumbles a jellyfish out at your feet.
Not too hopefully, not forlorn,
Whisper a word of your earnest quest;
Shed n,ot a tear if he turns in scorn,
And sneers in your face like a fish
possessed.
ITist! Hope on! There is yet a ivay.
Brooding jellyfish can't he gay.
Wait till the clock in the tower booms three
And the big bank opposite gnashes its
doors,
Then glide with a gait that is carefully free
By the great brick building of seventeen
floors ;
Haste by the grocer who smirks in his door,
Straining to lure you with sinister force,
Turn up the lane by the second-hand store,
And halt by the light-bay carrier’s horse.
By the carrier’s horse with the long, sad face
And the wisdom of seers in his mournful
eye.
Bow to him thrice with a courtier’s grace,
Proffer your query, and pause for reply.
Eagerly ask for a hint of the Glug,
Pause for reply with your hat in your
hand ;
If he responds with a snort and a shrug
Strive to interpret and understand.
Rare will a carrier's horse condescend.
Yet there's another way. On to the end!
Catch the four-thirty ; your ticket in hand,
Punched by the porter who broods in his
box ;
Journey afar to the sad. soggy land,
Wearing your shot-silk lavender socks.
Wait at the creek by the moss-grown log
Till the blood of a slain day reddens the
West,
Hark for the croak of a gentleman frog,
■ Of a corpulent frog with a white satin
vest.
Go as he guides you, over the marsh,
* Treading with care on the slithery stones,
Heedless of night winds moaning and harsh
That seize you and freeze you and search
for your bones.
On to the edge of a still dark pool,
Banishing thoughts of your warm wool
rug;
Gaze in the depths of it, placid and cool,
And long in your heart for one glimpse of
a Glug.
“Krock!" Was he mocking you? “ Krock!
Kor-r-rock!"
T Veil, you bought a return, and it's past
ten o'clock.
Choose you a night when the intimate stars
Carelessly prattle of cosmic affairs.
Flat on your back, with your nose pointing
Mars,
Search for the star who fled South from
the Bears.
Gaze for an hour at that little blue star,
Giving him, cheerfully, wink for his wink ;
Shrink to the size of the being you are ;
Sneeze if you have to, but softly; then
think.
Throw wide the portals and let your
thoughts run
Over the earth like a galloping herd.
Bounds to profundity let there he none.
Let there be nothing too madly absurd.
Ponder on pebbles or Stock Exchange shares,
On the mission of man or the life of a bug,
On planets or billiards, policemen or bears,
Alert all the time for the sight of a Glug.
Meditate deeply on softgoods or sex.
On carta way seeds or the causes of bills,
Biology, art. or mysterious wrecks,
Or the tattered white fleeces of clouds on
blue hills.
Muse upon ologies, freckles and fog,
Why hermits live lonely and grapes in a
bunch.
On the ways of a child or the mind of a dog,
Or the oyster you bolted last Friday at
lunch.
Heard you no sound like a icee mortal’s
sigh ?
Or that chorus of laughter that swept
dotcn the sky?
Bate you no Glug on the wide Milky Way?
Then there’s naught left to you now but to
pray.
Sit you at eve when the Shepherd in Blue
Calls from the West to his clustering
sheep.
Then pray for the moods that old mariners
woo,
For the thoughts of young mothers who
watch their babes sleep;
Pray for the heart of an innocent child,
For the tolerant scorn of a weary old man,
For the petulant grief of a prophet reviled.
For the wisdom you lost when your
whiskers began.
Pray for the pleasures that he who was you
Found in the mud of a shower-fed pool,-
For the fears that he felt and the joys that
he knew
When a little green lizard crept into the
school.
Pray as they pray who are maddened by
wine;
For distraction from self and a spirit at
rest.
Now, deep in the heart of you search for a
sign.
If there be naught of it, vain is your quest.
Lay down the book, for to follow the tale
Were to feel the false blame of mortals
who fail.
And may the gods salve you on life's
dreary round;
For ’ tis whispered: “Who finds not, 'tis he
■ shall be found.”
VICTOKIA.
C. J. DENNIS.
The Wave of Cleena.
AN IRISH LEGEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
[A spot on the coast of Munster is still known
as Oleena’s Wave. Cleena, a Danaan woman, ami
therefore of the race of the gods, left her home in
the Land of Perpetual Youth to come to Ireland
with Keevan of the curling locks. She was pursued
by the waves to the place of landing and there
drowned. In later legend she is represented as
restored to life and reigning as queen of the South
Munster fairies.]
Act I.— ln the Land of Perpetual Youth
( Tir-nan-og ). There is a sun in the sky, a
moon and two stars, but the light is like a
warm after-sunset glow. There are trees
and flowers and the sea is glassy.
Keevan : It is a fine country surely, witli
white birds singing on the trees and fine
flowers where a man would set his foot;
and there is a white sun in a blue sky with
no cloud at all. But why will there be
no shadows under the trees and a moon
and two stars shining in the daytime?
Maybe it is my head is queer with the
wind blowing and me thinking to be
drowned in the great storm. It is a small
boat, surely, to come over the great sea
with one man only and the white water
flying over me with the sting of the salt
in it for seven days and seven nights.
Cleena comes in through the trees. She
is very beautiful, with rippling dark-red hair
and dreamy, quiet eyes.
Cleena': It was a voice I heard in this
place where no one walks at any time.
(Seeing Keevan) It is a fine greeting to
you, tall stranger, and you alone in a
place where you never came before.
Keevan : It is a fine greeting to you, lady
of the world, and me glad to hear a voice
speaking after listening to the sound of
the sea only for seven days and seven
nights.
Cleena : Is it from the sea you are and you
crossing the long water out of the world?
Keevan : It is from the sea I am, surely,
with the hunger of seven days on me. and
the need of rest and the fear still shaking
in me that I would be surely drowned.
What place is this at all?
Cleena : It is Tir-nan-og, tall stranger, and
the welcome of all kind ways to you com-
ing here. Will you sit here now where
the clear water is falling over the stones
till I bring you white bread and yellow
apples and sweet milk for drinking?
She takes Keevan by the hand and leads
him to a place where there is soft moss and
green fern and the stream makes a sound
like low music.
Keevan : I will sit down here and wait, for
it is a good place and my feet are weak
under me. ( Cleena goes out. Keevan sinks
down in the soft moss.) It is a soft bed for
a weary man and a soft voice in a quiet
country. If I am dead itself, it is a good
place that I have come to, surely.
Act ll.— The same place. Seven days
later.
Cleena is sitting with Keenan's head pil-
lowed on her knee. She is fingering his
short dark curls.
Cleena: What is it to die, Keevan? Is it
a sore thing to go out from living?
Keevan : How would a man that is living
still answer that? There is no man want-
ing to die, but some maybe that are very
old and tired of staying a long time in
one place thinking too many thoughts.
Cleena : I am tired of staying a long time
in one place and thinking too many
thoughts, with the sun always in one place
and the moon shining whenever you look,
and no shadow ‘at all.
Keevan : It is not thinking of dying you
•are, Cleena, and you always in the quiet
place where there are no tears and the
laughter is like something a man would
hear coming over a low hill? There is
no dying here, heart, in all the good days
of great kindness.
Cleena : It is not to die I am thinking
long. Keevan, but to live. There is no
dying here ; and how would there be liv-
ing? For the living is like a slow death ;
and maybe the dying somewhere else would
be good after a woman had lived red life
where there is a shadow to fall and a
flower to turn brown in the hot sun.
Keevan : Whisht, heart! Is it a good thing
to be wishing for the bad when you have
all the good is to be found anywhere?
Cleena : How would I know if it is good
itself? There is a man that calls me wife
and him looking at me with a quiet eye
and no smile every day in all the years;
and there is a man come up out of the
land of shadows and death, and he set
. a kiss hot on my mouth and the two eyes
of him looked fire and joy into my soul.
Maybe a bad bird croaking in the green
world where the night comes is more than
a white bird singing always in Tir-nan-og.
Keevan (half rising l : Och, my soul, you
have set me thinking long for a bfaek
(Continued on next page.)


'OISOHE
MGER.
Zam-Buk Prevents Festering,
“Gathering" and Inflammation.
. f/iii/st n 1
7
A cut or scratch is the gateway through which \
dangerous disease germs enter the body. When a
dirty knife, a rusty needle, a splinter or a thorn
scratches the finger, the latter is inoculated with
germs. In a few hours the finger will become hot and
throbbing. It will be painful to the touch and swell
all round the injury. A little later the wound may
exhibit a whitish appearance in the middle of the
swelling, and we have what is known as a festering
or poisoned finger. The inflammation set up by the
poison may spread until the whole hand and arm
are rendered useless.
The only way to avoid such serious results is to
cleanse the wound, however slight, and then apply
Zam-Buk, which is a powerful antiseptic germ-killer,
Zam-Buk is a pure, herbal preparation which, when
applied to the broken skin, soothes and purifies the
wound, and then proceeds to heal with new, healthy
skin in a quick, painless and perfect manner.
Zam-Buk must not be confused with mere oint-
ments, with which it has nothing in common. It pays
to keep a pot of Zam-Buk always handy.
MAN’S POISONED HAND HEALED.
Mr. F. J. Barnett, of Perry Street, St. Peters, Sydney,
says:— “l am in the employ of the Australian Gas Co. as
gasmain layer, and while at work had the misfortune to
injure my hand. I treated the wound rather carelessly,
thinking it would be all right, but it became worse and
showed signs of blood-poisoning. I applied several oint-
ments, but they did no good. My hand grew worse and
worse, and I suffered such agony that 1 was forced to
give up my work. It was at this time that Zam-Buk was
recommended. I applied it, and to my delight the wound
immediately began to heal, and after only three weeks’
treatment with Zam-Buk I was able to return to my work,
absolutely cured.”
Zam-Buk is in-
valuable for Guts,
Burns, Bruises,
Pimples, Black-
li ends, Scalds,
Scalp Troubles,
Pile s, Poisoned
Wounds, Fester-
ing Eruptions,
Boils, Psoriasis,
Ecze m a, Ab-
scesses, Face Blot-
ches, Eruptions,
R h e urn at i sm,
Stiffness, Bad
Legs, Ulcers',
Ringworm, Bar-
ber’s Rash, Blis-
ters, and injured
and unhealthy
conditions of the
skin. Zam-Buk
may be had
from all Chemists
and Stores; or
post free from
C. E. Fulford
( Aus .), Ltd., 39
Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.
hdf
■ sooth ins • antiseptic
1/6
and
3/6
'A
©
0
0
lllh
h
fh
fd
■=g=r= jv-
n d
V
Guard Against Substitution
The “VALET” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/0 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN —
NO SHAVE SO CLEAN.
night with thunder and the loud sound of
a man’s voice talking plain things.
Cleena : Och, my soul, the sound of a
man’s voice talking has made me want to
mix a kiss with tears in a world where a
man might kiss them away. Let me go
where there is love, because there is fear
and great hope, because there is death
also and a small grave in the ground.
Iveevan’: Is it with me you would go,
surely? Och, Cleena, I am tired of your
soft sun with a moon and two stars and
no great light with them all shining to-
gether. I want your hair falling down
in the light of a true morning and you
putting it up with white fingers in the
light of a true moon ; but it is far, heart,
and all the waves of a great sea to cross
before we come there.
Cleena: Will you take me, Keevan? For
my soul is set on being with you in the
good and the bad, and not sitting always
in half a dream that is neither sleeping
nor waking.
Keevan : Och, heart, how would I do this
thing? It is far over the sea with death
in every wave: and if we came to the
green world itself you would maybe set
a curse on me for bringing you there.
Cleena:. Would I set a curse on you,
Keevan, and me with two white arms
about you always?
Keevan (springing to his feet) : Sweet
woman, how would I have heart to take
you from the best that is? Listen, Cleena.
If we crossed the sea itself, we would'
share a kiss or two maybe and talk loud
and laugh well, but in a short while our
hair would be grey, and the youth would
go out of our faces and eyes, and we would
feel the cold round us and the sorrow, and
never in all the /days find the peace that
is in this place.
Cleena, who has risen to her feet, now
stands beside him. She puts her hands on
his shoulders and looks into his eyes.
Cleena : Och, Keevan, why would you talk
a small thing like that? Would grey hair
and tears be a great price to pay for
one true kiss in a true world?
Act 111. — A small boat in a tempestuous
sea. It is night, and the dim outline of a
rocky coast is seen. Cleena is crouched in
the stern of the boat and Keevan stands by
the broken mast, to which clings a torn shred
of the sail.
Keevan: It is the shore of Munster and
the wind driving us in maybe on a sandy
place. ( Cleena sits with brooding eyes
and does not answer. Keevan strains his
gaze towards the shore.) We are past
the high rocks, Cleena. It will be a good
morning in a good world. ( Cleena does
not answer.) Hold tight where you are,
Cleena. There are white waves running
up on the long sand. I know this place;
and there are good woods beyond and a
stream where the salmon leap in the sun.
Cleena : Och. Keevan, listen to them on
the sea. It is 'the hounds of Mananan
with the weeds on their wet hair and them
barking after us.
Keevan : Whisht, whisht, Cleena. Mananan
is far in Tir-nan-og, and him giving no
heed to us at all. It is the wind on the
water; but the shore is very near now.
Cleena : Och, but can you not hear them ?
It is voices of men calling them on and
them coming nearer.
Keevan ( coming close to her) : Cleena,
heart, there are no voices at all, and the
sea is quieter now itself.
Cleena : It is not the sea that is speaking,
but them that are hunting us with a
horn and a loud clapping of the hands.
Keevan : It is no clapping of hands but
the waves beating on the rocks we are
past.
Cleena ; Och, Keevan, there is a fear on
me and them coming close.
Keevan : Whisht, Cleena. Will you look
at the white water and us near the shore!
He puts his arm about her and her head
rests on his shoulder.
Cleena : Och, hold me from them. I can
feel their breath cold on me and the
smell of their salt tongues.
Iveevan : Heart, there is no hound of land
or water would pull you out of my arms.
The boat is driven into the wild tumult
of the white surf.
\
Act IV.- — A place on the coast of Mun-
ster. The hills are dotted with trees, and
between is green grass sloping down to the
shore. Hie beach is of yellow sand and a
light surf is rolling in from a quiet sea. The
sun is shining brightly.
Cleena and Keevan come in. His arm is
about her, and their laughter is heard before
they speak.
Cleena : It is a kiss that is good in Ireland
this day, and us seven weeks escaped from
the sea and the strange places.
Keevan : No, but do you not hear them,
Cleena —the hounds of Mananan, and them
chasing us over the water?
Cleena : I am not afraid of them. They are
little green dogs with no teeth, and I have
a strong man to kiss the fear of them
away from me always.
Iveevan : Och, no, but it is their breath that
is cold on you, and the smell of their salt
tongues.
Cleena: It is their salt tongues that will
lick me soon when the day is hot and I
let the water fall sweetly over me as I lie
on the sand. . . .Och, the poor thing! (S‘he
walks along the sand and picks up a little
white bird from a tangle of brown sea-
weed.) Is it dead it is, Keevan?
Keevan : It is dead, Cleena.
Cleena : Och, the little thing that fluttered
and sang in Tir-nan-og in the half-light of
the sun and moon and two stars. It will
be nothing now, and all the song gone out
of it all the days of the year.
Keevan : No, but let it lie there, Cleena,
for it is a small thing and not worth many
tears ; but the day is a good day, heart,
and there are more good days for love
before it is time to be sad.
Cleena (with a sigh) : Och, why would I be
sad and me with the world warm on me
and a laugh in my throat? Strong man
that took me from the half-light to the
great love, would I be dropping foolish
tears because some little thing was dead ?
It is a small white bird that lived in the
strange places and sang a song with no
heart in it but only a sweet sound; and it
came to its mate over the sea, and is dead
here on the yellow shore. Och, if it only
sang one true song in the green world, it
was enough surely. Would I be afraid of
dying, and me living red life who never
lived before any day of the year?
Keevan : It is a good world, surely, and we
two our lone in the bright summer time.
(A horn is heard among the trees.)
Whisht!
Cleena : It is, maybe, some huntsman coming
near this place.
Keevan : It will be Brian, and him hunting
the deer since the first of the yellow morn-
ing. Will you come now, Cleena, and see
men of the living world?
Cleena : It is no man of the living world I
would see, but you only. Do you go and
meet him that is your friend while I stay
here waiting in this place. It is glad I
am in my heart and breathing fine air that
is like a sweet song; for the seas are
laughing to the hills because Cleena is a
living woman.
Keevan hisses her.
Keevan : Sweet woman, be glad always. My
heart will be running home to you before
my feet.
Act V.— The same place at evening. A
cold wind is blowing and a , great sea is roll-
ing in on the sand. .Cleena, tvith her hair
blown about her, is on the sand where the
waves are breaking. A horn is heard in the
woods.
Cleena : He will be coming soon now, and
maybe a hare or a piece of venison over
his shoulder; and he will be telling me
of the long chase among the trees with
Brian’s grey dogs close on the scent.
Och, it is the good day with the loud
wind blowing cold on me and the night
coming up with half a moon dancing be-
tween two small clouds. It is the sea
itself barking like great hounds but run-
ning up sweetly to touch my feet and
leaving soft bubbles on the sand. (Keevan
is seen coming through the trees far up
on the darkening hill. Cleena, with her
fingers spread out to catch the wind, runs
to meet the waves and dances back ankle-
deep in foam, laughing like a child.)
Och, it is a kind sea and me with no
fear of it at all. Would the hounds of
Mananan bark? It is a fine wet barking
surely, but there is no bite in their soft
mouths. (A great wave running up far
beyond the others swirls around her
knees.) ’Tis the strange pulling of the
strong waters and the sand tickling in
my toes. (She struggles up the wet beach
laughing and tossing the hair out of het
eyes. Keevan, coming fast through the
trees, calls. She waves her white arms to
him and shouts back. A tremendous green
wave rises and begins to break.) Och,
Keev.an, I am sporting with the big dogs
of Mananan !
The wave breaks over her and she is
drawn back into the swirl of the waters.
Keevan comes running down the sand.
Keevan: I am coming to you, Cleena!
Cleena ( rising amid the foam) : Och,
Keevan !
Keevan plunges into the surf where
Cleena has disappeared. He is seen strug-
gling in the water for some minutes; then
a great wave hurls him far up on the sand.
He moves slowly and heavily to safety. The
sea breaks into a sudden uproar like the
barking of many dogs. Keevan raises him-
self on one arm.
Keevan : Och, bark your fill. You have
taken her away from me !. . . . She came
to her mate over the sea and sang one
song in the green w0r1d.... It was enough
surely... .Och, Cleena!
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
The Terror.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
WE sat in the darkness, she and I,
I the Body and she the Soul;
And hearkened the earthquake roll-
ing by,
And heard resounding thunders roll.
The roofs crashed down in the jostled town,
Floor and pavement arose in waves;
The spires of temples tumbled down,
And all the landscape gaped with'graves.
Within my veins the currents raced
Up and down in furious flow;
And I was pale and craven-faced,
But she was cool as moonlit snow.
I heard the creaking of the world
Torn and disrupted everywhere ;
But, though the rocks were heaped and
hurled,
Her eyes gleamed calmly through her hair.
The landscape billowed ocean-wise;
Upthrust the hollow, sank the hill;
I gazed about with stricken eyes.
But she sat on unmoved and still.
I saw the cities clutched by fire.
Walls in the crimson onslaught gape;
My every nerve was trembling wire.
But steadfast she, a marble shape.
Wild-eyed went Panic to and fro,
Rumor and Fear at either side;
Aghast I watched him come and go.
But evermore she sat calm-eyed.
I said:-“In cataclysmal strife
Millions of men fall down and die;
Death rules the world, dethroning Life,
And Love is but a hollow lie!”
She spake: “Poor Fool, take heart, be still;
Though in the dark dread fiends pursue,
I cannot die save by your will,
And while I live ’tis well with you !”
She said : “Be comforted, nor grieve
Though at your elbow Hope be mute,
And Earth to its foundations heave.
Rocklike I stand and resolute!”
Then from her lake-like eyes I drew
Calm and the strength that calmness
brings;
And every fibre tautened through ;
I smiling faced the worst of things.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Westinghouse (Cross) Oil Engines
€O3
CD
a
10-h.p. Oil Engine driving Air Compressor at 650 r.p.m.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simple in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate,
Rugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARBURETTER to Give Trouble.
Lubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Eiigines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquiries will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
The Westinghouse Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West, N.S.W.
hf
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Weight, 61b.; Heif
Saves sper cent . on
Automobile
Fire Insurance .
Price 55/ -each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
t . Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. P/ease write.
3KS
*3
::
A
wide and
comprehensive
range of Saddles for
Cycles and Motor Cycles
is listed by the house of
BROOKS
but one quality, and that un-
equalled distinguishes
them all.
OF ALL DEALERS
hf
dh
f
DINNEFORD’S
Magnesia
IMPORTANT.
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must seethe name
“UINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
hf
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
GAILLE I9I6 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, _ or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
Sole Australasian Agents :
h
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
f
ss
m
YY
r
fi'V
*0
m
i
csVc'
\
Y
Y
n
I
t.
jmm
Economy
For all-round tube-screwing use
the time-saving
dfh
304-A
tin. to
4in.
Screws.
Tubes,
Bolts,
Nipples.
OSTER
SCREWING
MACHINES
and save money over hand-screwing.
Furnished in four sizes for belt or
motor drive. Dies and extra parts
carried in stock here. Ask for catalog.
THE OSTER MFG. CO., Cleveland,
Ohio, D.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRICHT, Box 251 C.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic. [2
f
if any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
hfd
We Specialise in Sundries
for the Explosive Engine.
If you possess a Motor-car, Motor-boat, Motor-
cycle, Portable or Stationary Engine, or Aeroplane,
whether propelled toy Petrol, Oil or Gas,
we can supply you with all the necessary fitments to
make it go better for less expense.
Sparking Plugs! Sparking Plugs!!
-
in Metric, % in. taper,|in. x 18in. 5/- each,
nly, 6/- each. Special Racing, 7/6 each.
hf
CHAMPION SPARKING PLUGS, the equipment of
80 per cent, of the cars made in America. _ A plug for
every make of car.-.. In Metric, Vz in., fin. x 18in.
Ford “X” 2/9, Regular 3/-, Overland 3/3, Hy.
Duty 5/-, Reliance (Sparks in water) 5/6 each.
REFLEX SPARKING PLUGS. A splendidly, made
plug. Will not foul with oil, soot or carbon. Once tried
always used. Ford Special 2/9, Torpedo 3/-, Giant
Reflex, 4/- each.
Illustrated List describing all these plugs in detail free.
Send for other Lists.
Country Garages write to us. We will put you on the
right track.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 0
■•r i


Tlie All-A.tistralian
Power Transmitter.
IUAQMPNVMj
dh
LEATHER
IW
whioh is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
fh
Engineers!
' ou know how a coating:, no matter how slight, spoils
the cutting efficiency of your grinding-wheel. This
cutting surface can be quite easily renewed in a few
minutes if you are equipped with one of our
Huntington Grinding Wheel Dressers
Means taster work—and practically the disappearanco
of all your wheel troubles.
Igents*— Complete with s P are cutter, 3/6. Write for one to-day.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Engineers g Machinery Merchants 60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
DICK’S BA LATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
hy its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD/E & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle.
99
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an -Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
VALVE,"
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast iron and Stee/ Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, F/uming,
Patent ** Ne/yambo " Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
DEWRANCE VALVES
g
and
COCKS.
UNEQUALLED for QUALITY.
RENEWABLE STOP-VALVES,
BLOW-OFF VALVES 8 COCKS
ALWAYS IN STOCK.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
33
m
Delco-Light
Safe, Reliable, Convenient,
Electric Light Plant for Country
Homes, Stations, etc. So simple,
a child can operate it. Cheap to
install, and most perfect and
economical to use. Send for
full particulars and prices to
Sole Agents :
Warburton, Frank!, Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
Sydney: 309 Rent St. Melbourne; 380 Bourke St.
fd
m
SM
/2
Si**
isfen
ALL BRITISH MADE
IN IMPROVEMENTS THE
LISTEP LEADS.
hdf
THE LATEST
Sole Agents
for Australia
DANGAR. GEDYE & C° U D .
SYDNEY
h
IGNITION TROUBLES BANISHED
REVOLUTION IN OIL ENGINES.
A Wonderful Power Machine which Starts Up Cold and Runs on Cheapest Low-grade Kerosenes.
Sizes: 2-h.p., 4-h.p., 8-h.p., hand started (larger sizes with Self-starter).
HOOE OIL ENGINES
Do away with all the Present Ignition Devices. No Electricity. No Blow Lamps.
A 4-h.p. Engine in use 18 months in N.S.W. consumes only -52 pints per B.H.P. per hour.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building,
350 George St., Sydney
