

J
The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. O. WATKINS «S£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 ICeilt Street, SycSLn.oy*
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
V
€
S
Cfte OcU'cmce
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
BILLS DISCOUNTED
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N. S.W. MONT DE PIETE DaI.C? LTP
HEAD Off ICE*. 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
fifty page book-post free
EE
£ =C
d=c
e;:e
5
1
SLEEP IN OR
OUTDOORS
COMFORT
FOR HOTELS
FLATS, AND
BUNGALOWS
REVOLVES
22 INCHES.
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO.
380 GEORGE ST (near G.p o.), SYDNEY.
S.H.&
BUTTONS
J
iHAMS^B^COH
CHUBBS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine
is recommended by numerous doctors
HAN S E NS
Jl
unke
SZSOMSE
ror INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficiaJly when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
■
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street , Sydney.
sdf
1
«
I
Royal
Dutch
I
SUPERIOR
EVERYWAY.
It is wise and profitable to use
MALTHOID
Extremes in temperature do not harm it; despite torrential rains, snow-
storms, great heat or gales, Malthoid roofs are unaffected. Malthoid is
best for YOUR purpose.
Samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
‘Not the same as others.”
V
The Paraffine Paint Company <D. 5. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney,
BULLOCH LADES
wmskiES
I HI
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXiRA
SPjfpkAL
S .V. o.
(Gilbert lo&ac* Cb
KENDALL & GENT’S
(Manchester, Eng:.)
Machine Tools for all Trades.
108 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone : City 4126. .
115=117 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 38.—N0. 1941.]
[Thursday, April 26, 1917.
Registered at the. General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ft***
CCS*
C»1
ONC
■■■
%SS3
c> g *ss?° ,:
\yo
Vo^"
w
s«S;
\9^
sSV
M
Siris Cut Gold Bars
A High-grade Virginian Tobacco that will
■ not bite the tongue.
Specially Prepared and Packed in Hermeti-
cally-sealed lib. and lib. Tins, which ensures
delivery in perfect condition.
lib. Tins, 8/-; Postage, lid.
}£lb. Tins, 4/-; Postage, 6d.
An Ideal Smoke for the Troops Abroad. We
Pack as per G.P.O. Regulations FREE, and
forward same on receipt of address and P.N.
value 9/- for lib., or 4/7 for % lb. tins.
A Sample 2oz. Tin forwarded anywhere Post Paid for 1 /2.
A. KEBBLEWHITE, Cigar & Cigarette Merchant,
“The Old Established House,” 19 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Mouth, a Gateway for Disease.
have proved conclusively that no fewer than 38 different infections may be traced to
human mouth as a. starting point. The mouth thus being a gateway for the entrance of Disease,
it is here that precautions are most necessary.
A. The Larynx, or
Organ of the voice.
B. The Trachea,
or Windnipe.
The Bronchial
mr
T. bcs of a Dis-
serted Lung.
I). Lobe of one
of the Limits.
HUDSON’S
EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES
Are thcr most powerful, safe, and pleasant
Germicide and Antiseptic known. Being destruc-
tive to all organisms which give rise to infec-
tious diseases, they keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Pre-
vention ot* Consumption.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. TINS, 1/6. [4
The Red Page
Australian Poetry and Worse
This page reverently begs to propose Prof.
J. Laurence Rentoul, of Melbourne Univer-
sity, also Chaplain-General of the C.D.F.
and the A.1.F., as Poet Laureate of the
Commonwealth. Whatever claims the Pro-
fessor had on the position before, he has
certainly clinched by his publication of At
Vancouver's Well and Other Poems of South
and North (Macmillan, 55.). lie would be
a dignified and impressive figure in whatever
uniform the Cabinet might design for the
official appearances of our representative
poet, and—at the seat of government —they
take him seriously. Judging solely by the
contents of this book, the Itentoul Laureate-
ship would be in safe hands. Prof. Itentoul
could always be depended upon to produce
punctually the dull and decorous threnody
on the defeat at the poll of an Aus-
tralian Prime Minister, or hail with due
professorial rapture the arrival of a new
Governor-Genefal. lie could do this sort of
thing with an almost careless ease. Thus in
his new book, the first poem—quite properly
—is “Australia's Message to His Majesty,
King George V.,” and the first stanza is
equally proper:—
My King, the only King that dared to sail
Round the great world his Empire's need to know,
Through longest leagues of Ocean, let the gale
Scowl darkling or the loyal zephyrs blow!
A poet who could find cause for flattery in
the thrilling fact that King George feared
neither shipwreck nor seasickness could be
depended on for anything, even to making
the breezes loyal. Another useful character-
istic of this author is his frequent use of the
footnote. He has learned elucidations of
Hebrew history on almost every second page
of one piece; and his narrative of Van-
couver’s discoveries is similarly documented
by quotations and explanations, without
which, in our ignorance, we could not under-
stand the verses. His narrative of Van-
couver’s wanderings is interesting in its way.
but suffers from the inevitable defect of long
narration in verse. There are long dull
stretches to be covered before we reach an
occasional felicitous stanza such as:—
O human-hearted Mariner,
Unbaffled, wakeful, unafraid —•
Cleaving through seaways, rough or fair.
Unhindered avenues of trade—
By such keen eye and tireless care
Was world-wide England made!
Or:—
Fool! ’T.is the same old British breed,
The same blood-beat at Love’s behest,
The same heart-uttered prayer and creed
We learnt, when bairns, at Britain's breast;
The same old .flag at call of need,
North, South, and East, and West!
His “Other Poems’’ are sermons in narra-
tive, patriotic songs and war verse. “Aus-
tralia,” reprinted from a former volume, is
dignified and conventional; “Prayer for Aus-
tralia” contains the usual catalogue:—
Realm of vine and hoof and flock,
Pearl in wave and gold in rock,
Land of tilth and cane and corn
Sun-kissed at the gates of Morn,
God’s peace crown thee with content,
Earth’s one Island-continent!
And “Our Battle Call” begins as one ex-
pects battle calls to begin:—
My young land, my true land,
Australia, wide and free!
Her rampart one bright girdling strand,
Her pathway all the sea!
And who shall grudge or who withstand
Her broadening destiny?
0 Motherland ! My father’s land !
O Daughter-lands afar,
God keep us one in heart and hand,
In trade, and peace, and war!
And there is a lot more electroplate poetry
of this kind, with the inevitable war verses,
all neatly done in the dull conventional
official manner. Yes, J. Laurence Rentoul
would wear the official raiment of our
laureateship with dignity and without a
wink.
J*
Somehow, this page doesn’t see Bernard
Ingleby, author of Poems (Excel Printing
Co., Auckland, M.L., 2s. Gd., charmingly
printed—and in M.L.!), with official gum-
leaves upon his brow. His work is—or ought
to be —sufficiently well-known in this paper.
This collection amply indicates his scope and
variety. His delightful cynicism is at its
finest in his sonnet sequence of “The Life
Suburban,” of which “The Wife” clamors
for quotation :
Proud of her spoils and of her victim proud,
She flaunts .her matron virtue as a thing
To make a great red hoarding of, and fling
Her paltry triumph-message to the crowd
Whose env3 r is her tribute. Well endowed
With legal increase, see her smug disdain
For those who loved, nor asked for love a chain,
Contented with the sweets that love allowed.
A mangle is the emblem of her state,
To queen it in the suburbs is her goal,
And all her dearest hopes are consummate
Can she sew trouser-buttons on our soul.
Then, well assured our fancies cannot roam,
She builds a shambles and she calls it “Home.”
Now, that is a sonnet that neither J.
Laurence Rentoul nor D. M. Ross could ever
have written! And in “Kiddywigs” Bernard
Ingleby writes seductively of charming child-
hood in a way equally beyond the ambit
of those electroplate poets. For Bernard
Ingleby is tormented with that unofficial and
awkward . thing, an imagination; and he
cannot help making his versdk original. But
there is too often a deliberate effort on his
part to be imaginative; and then the result
is a mere chaos of sonorous adjectives. He
may bring back from his ventures into the
realms of the imagination nothing buc a
tumult of beautiful vagueness lit by a simile
like this: —
The Sun went out.... Great mountains, black as ink,
Were all around us, poignarding the sky ;
or an effort at deliberate and cold-blooded
pretentiousness, like this :
But, in epitaph,
Across the city cracked a dead .girl’s laugh;
or he may even “pull off” a grim and
ghastly thing like “Sea-Fruit”: —
To think that slimy thing they dragged was she,
The fools they were,
Hiding what its face was with its hair,
Lest I should see!
And how they bit their lips when, curiously
(For all their protests, not to be denied!)
I pulled the tousled mess of hair aside
And saw the sea-slugs’ havoc....
or brilliantly capture the moods of “Appre-
hension” and “Nerve-Wracked” ; or overload
with manufactured horror his verses on
“Syph” ; but his Pegasus goes more sweetly
when ridden with the curb and there are no
fantods on the track. He is most sincere
where he is simplest. So his “Glad Song,”
a slight thing, but complete, is chosen here
:or quotation
There’s a tang in the air that lifts like wine
And the heart of me as a lad’s is light;
I love the world, for the world is mine
And little’s my trouble for wrong or right;
The grass is green and the sun is good
And a joyous stirring is in my blood.
Good Christian folk in a chapel by
Are whining their sins to an organ drawl;
Stretched at my ease on the grass I lie
Watching the sparrows in nuptial brawl,
And the scudding clouds and the gulls that dq
And plane and flutter in the wake of a ship.
Far over the harbor the City seems
No city at all, but a wondrous maid,
Down on whose body the sunlight streams
In wafts and dapples of light and shade;
It wouldn’t surprise me the least, were She
To rise and dabble her toes in the sea.
There’s joy in love and there’s ease in song,
But each at whiles is inclined to cloy;
God knows I wouldn’t do either wrong,
But better than both is the heart of a boy;
The rush of gladness that fills the blood—
I’m old, but I tell you it’s mighty good !
Let the wise portend and the grave dispuss,
The shriving of souls we can well let be ;
Myself, it’s a murrain on all their fuss,
To live and be glad is enough for me,
With fruit and wine and a book of rime
And a lass, when I want her, to pass the time.
For the warmth of the sun, for the blue of the
sky,
For the slap of the waves as they lip the shore,
For the cool of the breeze as it idles by,
My heart gives thanks and I ask no more;
With form and color and sound and scent,
O Mother Earth. I am well content.
J*
According to C. It. Bell, who writes the
foi •eword to D. M. Ross's Morning Red,
with Other Lyrics and Sonnets (Wildman
and Arey, Auckland, M.L.) :
His poems have the universal qualities of true
poetry, in the best sense of that sacred word....
“The Silent Tide” is worthy to be placed beside the
very best English sonnets; and, in making this claim
for it I am well aware of the company of immortals
I am contemplating....! am well aware how high
is the place I claim for it. But the perfect equipoise
of poetic energy and imagination I consider to
sufficiently support my claim.
According to this page, D. M. Ross is a
capable sonneteer, a careful, craftsman, sel-
dom inspired. - His work in this form is
sonorous and melodious, but only occasion-
ally is there anything in his sonnets except
sound. “The Silent Tide,” for which C. R.
Bell makes such a curious claim, is repro-
duced here in fairness to D. M. Ross’s
sponsor.
I heard Old Ocean raise her voice and cry,
In that still hour between the night and .day ;
I saw the answering tides, green-robed and gray,
Turn to her with a low contented sigh:
Marching with silent feet they passed me by,
For the white moon had taught them to obey,
And scarce a wavelet broke in fretful spray,
As they went forth to kiss the stooping sky.
So, to my heart, when the last sunray sleeps,
And the wan night, impatient for the moon,
Throws her grey mantle over land arid sea,
There comes a call from out Life’s nether deeps,
And tides, like- some old ocean in a swoon,
Flow out, in soundless majesty to thee.
This is a f.a.q. sonnet, correctly creating
a somewhat vague atmosphere; but that is
all. As C. R. Bell believes that: “In Aus-
tralasia the poets have, with some notable
exceptions, not produced sonnets, although
latterly there have been indications of a
change in this respect in some excellent
recent work,” his worship of this sonnet
may be excused. Fact is, the Australian
poet is at his best in the sonnet, and his
best is very, very good. And it is very
hard to keep him off the sonnet form. But
D. M. Ross can write better than “The
Silent Tide.” Here are two that have more
imagination in them :
The Demjge.
All the high scaffolding of heaven, reared
Star upon star through blue immensity,
Seemed fallen from its ancient 'height, to be
No more the angel-loved, the demon-feared: »
All day the wallowing Ark in winds' that veered
Round the invincible sky, held drunkenly—
Groping about the blind and desolate- sea
From which dead sodden faces grinned and leered.
Ho, land at last! Not fair and morning-kissed;
Nay there, slime-coated in a sullen light
Ko.se topmost crags of conquering Ararat,
Where high seas leaped to mingle with’'the mist,
Sounding- aloud in chords of growing might
The wild and wounded waves’ Magnificat.
Sii.kn'ce.
There is no silence where the last stars halt
In dim dread mazes of the Outer Zone,
Nor on wide deserts where the sands are blown
By winds that hunt and turn like hounds at fault,
Beneath the ocean-pall of bitter salt
Unsounded deeps dream to the far-off moan,
And mummied mutes hold converse with the stone
Where black death reigns in catacomb and vault.
For when the vintage of your lips I quaffed
All space to its last reach heaved once and thrilled
And bloomed in clouds moon-white and nebulous:
With joy in us the New Immortal laughed
•As from dead Silence sound came forth, and filled
The void with praise, like shrouded Lazarus.
Ilis lyrics^however, are poor stuff, dignified
with an occfigional majestic line or decorated
with a neatlymrinted picture. “The Tryst,”
a finely dramatic poem, is the one happy
exception. If his editor regards this collec-
tion of lyrics as representative, either the
quality of D. M. Ross’s lyrical work is low
or C. R. Bell’s critical faculty is at fault,
since lie admits that his principal concern
was to decide which to publish from the
number available. And I). M. Ross himself
would have been well advised to omit the
pompous and windv dedication to “His Ex-
cellency Dr. John Anderson Gilruth,
Administrator of the Northern Territory.”
Your Soul: I.
Bet us, with due humility, consider our
souls. Have you got a soul, and if so, what
is its size and age? If not, why not? These
and many other important questions Norman
Pearson minutely considers in The Soul
and its Story { Arnold, per Sydney Book
Club, 14s. out here). The author describes
his work as a sketch —it is a volume of over
300 pages, packed with scientific fact and
metaphysical speculation. And, to the scien-
tific reader, it is wildly interesting, though
probably more for its argument than its
conclusion. For Norman Pearson holds a
brief for the pre-existence and eternal exist-
ence of a definite soul allotted to each of
us, and though his exposition is clogged with
difficulties lie battles obstinately through
them to his logical conclusion. He differs,
however, from the majority of metaphysical
writers by making use of the evolution of
matter as a guide to his suggested evolution
of the soul. “I have sought help from this
source repeatedly, being convinced that if
there be a real solidarity between all things
which form part of the scheme of our uni-
verse, the plan of the whole must permeate
its various parts. Motion, matter, mind,
life, soul, arc thus linked together, and from
any one of them we may learn something
about the others.”
The author differentiates your soul from
your self; in his argument your self is but
a temporary part of your soul. But your
self is the only present point of contact
with your soul. But has your soul any
past? Or are you presented with a brand-
new one when you are born? If you get a
new soul at birth, then man has an un-
limited power of calling into existence new
souls. On the other hand, how can a psy-
chical unity like a soul be transmitted from
parent to child?
The answer to the materialists, who in-
sist that Mind is the product of Matter, is
that Matter is merely the creation of Mind.
Matter is merely the name we give to some
of our perceptions; and if there did not
exist any Mind we would not perceive any
Matter. Matter is merely a mental abstrac-
tion ; unless there is a Mind to perceive
Matter there is no Matter —in fact, it
wouldn’t matter. The Materialists say, that
Thought is merely the product of the physi-
cal brain —that the brain “secretes” thought
as the liver secretes bile. But yon have not
one brain, but two, and you use only one-
half of those brains to think with. If all
mental activities are products of the cerebral
grey matter, why doesn’t the other half of
your grey matter do its share? Each hemi-
sphere of your brain is fitted with its own
sensation area for hearing, seeing, etc., but
the areas that Tenon; what these sensations
are, and can translate them, are situated
only in the working half of your brain.
Pearson suggests that the knowing centres
have been formed only in one hemisphere
by some independent agency which uses the
brain as an instrument. But. though
there are reasons why the brain should re-
quire a duplicate set of receiving instru-
ments, why should it want a duplicate set
for expressing the meaning of those sensa-
tions? Two ears are useful for hearing
with, but we don’t want two mouths to say
the same words. And so you will hardly
be disposed to accept Pearson’s argument
that your soul is a definite and permanent
element in the cosmic system, rather than
a by-product of the activities of cerebral
tissue.
Matter we now know not to be inert: it
it throbbing with motion ; in fact, the final
conclusion about Matter is that it is nothing
but motion —“the motion of something which
is not itself material in the ordinary
sense,- while its qualities are also apparently
duo to the motion of its component elec-
trons.” And the difference in things—the
difference between you. for instance, and a
cytode, or a lump of road-metal, is merely
due to the difference in atomic structure —
in the number and arrangements of the
electrons within your own atoms. And it is
only when a structure becomes sufficiently
complex that life appears in it. Life is not
the product of, but the reward for, atomic
complexity. Pearson shows that in its
earliest stages, Life behaves largely in con-
formity with non-living matter. Thus there
is no impassable gulf between the living and
the non-living.
J*
From the fact that the motions of the
atom are not haphazard, Pearson is right
to deduce that there exists in Matter some
intelligent control. “Matter, in short, must
be blended from the very beginning with
some element of mind, to which it owes its
character and stability.” There must have
been some mental guidances in order to make
matter what it is, and ultimately to evolve
you. Obvious, isn’t it? But Pearson goes
on to suggest the existence of a specific
mind-substance. Otherwise he cannot
account for the difference between Mind ,
and Matter. “The atom is generally sup-
posed to consist of a vortex or strain in the
ether” —it is constituted by a certain push
through the ether. If the mental unit is
formed in the same manner —by a push
through something—there must be some dif-
ference either in the push or in the some-
thing that is pushed. Pearson inclines to
the belief that the difference is in the sub-
stance ; he suggests that there is another
kind of ether, mind-stuff. Mathematicians
have calculated that there must be at least
five sorts of ether, of varying densities.
Some one of these finer ethers may consti-
tute mind-stuff; As matter is formed by
means of an electrical discharge through
the ether, mind may be formed similarly
from its finer ether. In the atom there is
evidence of some humble form of mind:
with every atom there is associated a mind-
structure which-" looks after that atom and
keeps it on the straight path. “The vital
mind-structure thus called into existence is
the lowly origin of the human soul.... And
in due course, though after countless ages,
consciousness at last becomes aware of a
self that is conscious, and with the awaken-
ing of self-consciousness comes the dawn of
the soul.”
But as your soul, no less than your
mind, so long as it inhabits a physical
vehicle, is subject to the laws of its struc-
ture, the characteristics of vour soul
will depend on the structure of your brain.
A blow on your head may reduce you to a
gibbering idiot, or if you are a gibbering
idiot - another blow, or an operation, may
restore you to sanity. But destroying the
brain does not mean annihilating your mind,
any more than smashing an organ is
equivalent to killing the organist. But the
difficulty crops up, what about mental
heredity ? Pearson answers that the parent
transmits to you not his mental qualities
but a brain of similar structure, capable of
-producing the same mental qualities. He
asserts that the soul has an existence inde-
pendent of your body, but so long as it is
associated with your body it has to suit
itself to that body.
But if human consciousness is thus
evolved, what about the subhuman conscious-
nesses which are left behind in the race?
What happens to the consciousness of a
beetle when that beetle dies? If it reincarnates
in another beetle, any way it does not get
very far on its upward journey. It cannot
utilise the brain of an elephant. Pearson
suggests that the mind-structures of many
lower animals might be absorbed into the
mind-structure of a man. You might there-
fore have a bit of the beetle’s mind in you.
If you are a politician there is ample evi-
dence to support this theory. Also your
mind might, for all we know, be absorbed into
the individuality of some beings on a higher
plane than man.
Pearson points to the fact of telepathic
communication between minds as explicable
only on the theory that there is between our
minds a suitable medium, by means of which
the two could be connected. He suggests
that this mental medium might be composed
of discarnate mind structures, say, disem-
bodied minds of beetles. The disembodied
Beetles needn’t understand the messages they
could transmit, any more than the telephone
wire does. The world of mind may consist
of mind-structures situated in a surrounding
sea of the mind-stuff that may be the raw
material of mind.
[The rest of your soul will appear next week.]
©■ —;
Vers librettists are reminded that the clos-
ing date for vers litre on some aspect of the
war is March D. One guinea for the best.
11. Bjelke-Petersen, who is his own pub-
lisher (Sydney and Melb.), writes sensibly
upon Voids in the Head and Chest, and
their prevention by special physical training
in order to make the individual practically
immune by physical hardiness. The book
is excellently and clearly written, well illus-
trated, and the author, a well-known teacher
of physical training, puts forth a well-
thought-out method of prevention of colds
by means of special but easy exercises for
hardening the respiratory organs and in-
creasing their powers of resistance. This
useful book is in no sense a mere advertise-
ment for the author’s own job.


n
* o w !
AN! HONY HORDERNS’ for THE WINTER FASHIONS
13293
63/
(7
r^r
35/
1253
57 0
45/-
350
89 0
1250
79/6
AN examination of the
NEW STYLES for
Autumn anti Early
Winter, illustrated in our
Portfolio of the Winter
Fashions, emphasises that
Ladies need not necessarily
pay heavily to keep up the
Race of Fashion. The dis-
play presents, too, a most
desirable selection from the
best styles that are to pre-
vail.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
combine Fashion an d
Economy. Write for a Copy
of this interesting publica-
tion, posted free on request.
It is an Authoritative Guide
to the Styles that are to
prevail.
No. 1257.—Stylish Coat Frock in Colored Gabardine,
Self Collar, Belt and Folds on hips; Skirt has Panel back and
front, pleated below hips. In Fawn, Saxe, Navy, Wine, or
Nigger 77/(i
Similar Style in Navy or Black Taffeta Silk 89/6
No. 13293.—Smart Coat Robe of Fawn or Grey
Covert Coating, Sailor Collar and Buttonholes of Cloth
in shades to tone 63/-
Similar Style in Navy or Black Fine Serge, Sailor Collar and
Revel's of Self and Satin, no pockets .... 84/-
No. 435. — Fashionable Tailored Coat Frock of Brown
Gabardine. The yoke is carried down to form Panel
front and back, pleats from yoke let out below hips, Self
Belt and Collar 99/6
No. 1256. — Coat Robe in Fine Serge, new Panel effect
bark and front; the Collar, Belt aid folds on hips are edged
Military Braid; in Black or Navy 79/6
No. 350. — Tailored Coat Robe of Black or Navy Fine
Serge, box-pleated back and front from sa'tin bands above
waist, Satin Collar with Self Revels 89/6
No. 351. —Up-to-date Coat Kobe, in Black and White
Shepherd’s Check Suiting, black Velvet Collar, Strap-
pings and Buttons, Self Hovers; box-pleated back and front
from high waist 57/6
No. 1258. —Useful Coat Kobe in Gabardine, Self
Collar, with over-collar of embroidered Organdie Muslin,
broad Belt finished crossed strappings and buttons at front;
Fawn, Green or Brown 45/-
WE are Family
Drapers, Complete
House Furnishers
and Universal Providers, and
offer three-quarters of a
million pounds’ worth of the
World’s Choicest Commodi-
ties, in variety that puts all
competitive effort in the
shade. Be wise, pop your
orders in the post—no end
of savings are to be effected
through the agency of
Anthony
Horderns’
Famous
Low Prices.
o/g-p
tl/tt
9/ZZ
tree
ozl
11/ffl
ZLB d
zee/
J
9P GCC
o©o
9/z,
f9lr :i. A
//' ■■ r,e
■'ll
\Av.t
bh
ir
*
9 ez
iijzi
ZZZ
O/ZE
■ S 0 [
9/S!
A
0
I.
e/u
Ot£l
v/z/
ozet
3aR
fih
Vjf
No. 1346. — Delaine Blouse, with new Raglan Sleeves and
Collar, made of pin-spot Material, all shades 11/9
-Smartly-cut Skirt i» Pine Coating Serge,
full flared, Apron Pockets, gathered at waist, finished Belt,
Black or Navy 25/6
Other New designs in Fine Coating Serge —
17/11, 22/6, 23/6, 25/6
N°. 115. Delaine Blouse, in New Fancy Striped Materials,
Nigger, Black and Navy, finished fancy hemstitched Yoke —
12/6
1320 . —-Delaine Blouse, set-in Sleeves, with new tab
Collar, finished Pearl Buttons, Ivory Ground with Colored
s P° te 10/fl
No. 222. —Neatly-cut Skirt, in Black or Navy Fox’s
Serge, slip Pockets, finished Silk Arrows and Buttons, narrow
Waist Belt effect 17/11
No. 112.—Flannelette Blouses, in extra-thick Striped
Material, with Yoked Front, finished Pearl Buttons and
Tucks 5/9
No. 5692.—Divided Riding Skirt, of Grey Tweed
Mixture, Panel Front 32/6
Similar Styles in Grey Gabardine or Black and Navy
Serge 29/6, 33/6
4 ev x V . * 4-__ tt 1.1 a<■ 11 /I V... ... rt IV, Cll ik
No. 120.—Maternity Skirt, flull-flared shape with Slip
Picket, clastic band at waist. Black or Navy Fine Serge,
22/6, and in Finer Quality, 27/6.
No. 359.—Flannelette Blouses, in Fancy Stripes, shaped
front, finished with Fahey Buttons 4/6
No. 884.—Well-cut Four-piece Skirt of Grey Tweed
Mixture, finished Belt and Buttons 14/11
Similar Style in Light or Dark Grey or Brown Mixture
Tweeds 12/6, 15/11, 18/11, 24/6
No. 1352.—Flannelette Blouses, new silky finish, Navy
or Grey, with fancy ring Spot, finished Crystal Buttons and
Stitching 6/6
No. 164.—Nun’s Veiling' Blouse, in Ivory, Black, Navy,
finished pin-tucked Front and Hemstitching .12/6
No. PB72.—Smart Walking Skirt, in Navy Mixed
Tweed, Self Strappings and Buttons, finished Belt. . 15/11
No. 2211.—Useful Coat and Skirt, in Navy or Black
Cheviot Serge. Coat is belted at back, the shaped Collar
and Tab Trimmings finished with Bone Buttons. High-waisted
Skirt 49/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


When You
Follow The
Trail
Go
Equipped With
wnchestm
Guns a* 6 Ammunition
Made for all kinds
of shooting.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
ASK FOR THE
W
BRAND
What is Talcum Powder?
TALCUM is an inorganic
substance —neither damp-
ness, heat or perspiration
affect it. Rice, starch, and
other vegetable powders are
organic— they are affected
by temperature and mois-
ture —perspiration sours
them —when sour they be-
come a source of irritation
and a breeding place for
infectious germs.
M
Borated Talcum Powder
will not sour or ferment; and, medicated in the proper
proportion, covers baby’s skin with a protective coating
against threatening germs.
You use Talcum Powder in such unlimited quantities on
the sensitive skin of your baby, that the selection of a pure,
safe powder is of great importance.
FOR GROWN-UPS
Me linen's Scented Toilet Talcums
Sen Yang —With a seductive odor of the Orient.
Flesh Tint— With the odor of Roses, and delicately pink.
Violet —With the dainty scent of ‘"Violettes de Parme.”
Cream Tint—A ‘'Rachel” powder, with an orange blossom odor.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND STORES
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z,
Trade Mark
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
= FEDERAL LORRIES =
Quality and Reliability
These are important words in trade to-day. They should be
considered first of all when selecting a motor lorry. FEDERALS
combine BOTH, and FEDERAL engineers have neglected no detail in
building them into their product.
Materials and workmanship are the best that money and science
can provide.
No motor truck is built better than the FEDERAL.
Five capacities —1 ton, H ton, 2 ton, ton, and
5 ton. Worm Drive exclusively.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635 Adelaide.
A warded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
16
Calvert's
Ointment
is just what you may
want any time, any day
a healing soothing,
antiseptic ointment.
Keep a supply by you ready
for cuts, scalds, scratches and
chafed or sore skin.
In cases of insect bite, piles,
eczema, or ringworm it has
also been proved useful.
Sold by local Stores & Chemists.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
are: you n
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St'., Melbourne, Vic.
“I Consider Clements Tonic Superior to
any Medicine Sold in the Old Land.”
Mrs. E. PRATT, residing at No. 5 Olivo Street, Paddington, writes this
very excellent letter for the benefit of others —15/4/’l6:
•‘I blame the passage out and the change of climate for upsetting my nerves
and causing my face to be tortured with neuralgia. It was painful at all times, but
to place my head on the pillow was unbearable! I tried medicine to no end
without relief.
“I heard much about Clements Tonic, one person after another telling me
that it was a sure relief for neuralgia and run-down nerves.
“I have tested it and proved the truth of their statements, as I am now
well. Use this as you think fit. “(Signed) Mrs. E. PRATT.”
Mrs. F. H. DAVIDSON, Harris Street, Paddington, N.S.W., sends the
following—lB/4/’l6:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“Good health being the greatest -asset we can have, impels me to write my
experience of your wonderful medicine.
“It was only lately I heard about this remarkable remedy after I allowed
my health to be almost ruined through Indigestion and Insomnia.
“I have a strong feeling of gratitude for Clements Tonic, for it has assured
me good health in the future. “(Signed) Mrs. F. H. DAVIDSON.”
Mrs. S. BARRETT, 5 Hancock Street, Rozelle, N.S.W., writes:—
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“My illness was the result of a chill, followed by a severe attack of neuralgia,
and although I took all kinds of medicine and used liniments and other treat-
ments, I could get no relief from pain for more than a few weeks at a time.
This went on for five years. I gave up all hope of ever being cured.
“My mother, who was a nurse, came to see me, and brought a large bottle
of Clements Tonic. I took it more to please her, as I had no faith in anything.
Before I had finished the bottle I began to get better. I took five large bottles,
and have not suffered with neuralgia since, and that is years ago. My friends
were surprised, as they knew how bad I had been.
“(Signed) Mrs. S. BARRETT.”
Take it for Sick Headache and Neuralgia, or for Sluggish Liver, Consti-
pation, Loss of Sleep or Poor Appetite.
CLEMENTS TONIC is a necessary medicine for mankind, correcting the stomach, regulating the
bowels, invigorating the nerves, clearing the brain, and purifying the blood. For 25 years it
has been the standard medical tonic of Australia, and the thousands of testimonials received prove
its great efficacy.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease : Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, puffiness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or'
diseased kidneys,'for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
Kidney&BladderPills
I These Pills also act on the liver. J
\ NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE I j '
v&e'.&Wtb’i-Gb*
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill—straight to the kidneys—that is
why De _ Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief—every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres :
•22
•280
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO KILLS!
%r-
-w,
Mr * *
>o IN.. f*k
>J£
Face to Face with Deal 1 ' l
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for SO
years, hut since takina your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
df
A Cooling Lotion to prevent
Scorching and Burning of the
San for Bathers, Motorists.
Tourists, etc.
ALL chemists
I/O BOTTLE
OR POST FREE
BonniN6TOHeG>.
«7B HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
MOMDITOBANE
A few drops applied to ttoe
Bands and Face beep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
All Chemists 1 /6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONNINGTON & CO.. LTD.
179 Harris Street. SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
[l
CELEBRATED
a
w
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by tlie use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—•
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—-no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart [1
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
<3
f
r
t
n
nil*
m
n
r n
Nerve
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
1 HE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better —and rise refreshed ; you eat better —and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give ;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keens you fit —good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
sd
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GKEAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Memory.
Late, late last night, when the whole world
slept,
Along to the garden of dreams I crept.
And I pulled the bell of an old, old house
Where the moon dipped down like a little
white mouse.
I tapped the door and I tossed my head.
“Are you in, little girl? Are you in?” I said.
And while I waited and shook with cold _
Through the door tripped Me —just eight
years old.
I looked so sweet with my pigtails down,
Tied up with a ribbon of dusky brown,
With a dimpled chin full of childish charms,
And my old black dolly asleep in my arms.
I sat Me down when I saw myself,
And I told little tales of a moonland elf.
I laughed and sang as I used to do
When the world was ruled by Little Boy
Blue.
Then up I danced with a toss and twirl
And said : “Now have you been a good, good
girl?
Have you had much spanking since you were
Me?
And does it feel fine to be twenty-three?”
I kissed Ale then and I said Farewell,
For I’ve earned more spanks than I dared to
tell.
And Eight must never see Twenty-three
As she peeps through the door of Memory.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Sorrow.
A sickly moon hangs in the cypress tree,
And gleams the dew-like tears upon the bark.
Prone slabs of polished marble lying stark
Where you grey woman sobs on bended knee
With fevered eyes which stare but do not see.
Sadly adown the valley winds the Dark
With nodding plumes and pageantry. And
hark!
The rising wind is wailing wearily.
Oh, my wan heart is like a marble tomb
Where dim Regrets and many a. pallid Grief
Grim in their ghastly cerements lie close-hid!
Yet can I hear it pulsing 'mid the gloom,
Like chill dew dropping on a withered leaf,
Or slow rain drumming on a coffin lid.
maohiland.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Topsy-Turvy dom.
I’m for crossing o’er the Border
To the laud of Upside-down,
Where is neither rule nor order
And a queen, named Topsy-Turvy,
Sways the sceptre, wears the crown.
Sick am I of time and measure,
Tag and ticket, brand and class,
Worn-out grooves of pallid pleasure,
Tongues that say “Thou shalt!” "Thou
shalt not!”
Lights that fade and joys that pass.
“Follow! Follow! Up and follow,”
Folly beats upon his drum—
“ Over hill and over hollow
To the land where Topsy-Turvy
Rules o'er Topsy-Turvydom.”
There the daisy in the meadow
Overtops the poplar small,
Shade is shine and shine is shadow,
And the whitest of white roses
Is the reddest rose of all.
There the wildest wolf is craven
And the timid fawn is bold,
And the robin routs the raven;
And the head is never ancient.
Since the heart is never old.
There the dove is high and mighty
And the hawk is mild and mean.
And grey-heads, grown young and flighty,
Make the twilight shadows merry
Dancing on the village green.
There the dreams of One-and-twenty
Dwell forever fresh and fair;
Cares are few and kisses plenty,
And, like berries on the bushes,
Honest folk are everywhere.
Richer sounds than chiming money
Make a music bright and £lad ;
Meat and wine and bread and honey,
Apples sweet and sweeter kisses,
For the asking may be had.
There the rich man is the lover,
And to love not is to lack ;
White is white the whole land over ,
And, in spitp of Mistress Grundy,
Black is never wholly black.
And the queerest of surprises
In that land where follies throng,
Is that merit earns the prizes,
And the race is to the swiftest,
And the triumph to the strong.
There the faults of men are hidden
While their virtues shine like suns,
And the fallen go unchidden,
Quivering not beneath the lashes
Of the worse than fallen ones.
Open door and generous greeting.
Warmth of heart and clasp of hand,
And a wide hearth’s generous heating
Meet the outcast and the stranger
In that very curious land.
Where that realm of bright disorder
May be found I cannot say.
But it’s somewhere o’er the Border,
And it’s ruled by Topsy-Turvy
In a most delightful way.
Over hill and over hollow
Sounds the little sheepskin drum,
And the little drum says “Follow!
Follow, follow, follow, follow,
On to Topsy-Turvydom!”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


' ‘
V'
mm
/
*7
A
h
A
k
GUARANTEED WATERPROOF
The “Perdriau” is a comfortable roomy waterproof for
constant all-weather wear.
It is full-skirted, which allows the utmost freedom of
action in walking, and has the Raglan shoulders.
Look at the illustration and notice how free the
PERDRIAU is, for both men and women—no dragging
or tightness, yet has a pleasing smartness that must appeal
to you. The materials are proofed with pure Para Rubber
at our own Factory, and the coats are cut and made in our
workrooms by the most skilful waterproof-makers in
the trade.
The “PERDRIAU” is obtainable from
All Stores throughout Australia.
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
SYDNEY .MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE .PERTH .
&RI6BANE. .NEWCASTLE
f
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
Did You See My Sunburst Last Night?
inquired Mrs. Newrich of her poorer neighbor. “No, I didn’t,
but I certainly thought he would if he ate another bite.”
Let there be no misunderstanding about the
new Breakfast delicacy—-
“REX”
LORRAINE SMOKED
SAUSAGES.
They are just the thing for Hubby’s break-
fast—nourishing, satisfying and tasty.
They save your time, because they need no
cooking. “Rex” Lorraine Sausages are
smoked to perfection, retaining all their
juice and rich flavor. They are -packed in
pure, mouth-watering jelly, v Order a tin
from your grocer to-day.
When you want a meal in a hurry, try
* .Scr-N Mo V,* W
rt'iimapjiirrrrs m
“Rex” Pork Sausage.
It comes ready cooked —immerse the tin
in boiling water for 15 minutes and it is
ready to serve. “Rex” Pork Sausage is
considered by many to be superior to
fresh “porks.”
a
Rex” Luncheon Cheese
makes tasty sandwiches for suppers, lunches or
afternoon teas. Order these “Rex” i Goods from your
Grocer. Insist on “Rex” Brand.
UNCHEON
V t ft-juNeicC^
\
THE “REX” CANNED DELICACIES INCLUDE:—
“Rex” Ham Pate. \ “Rex” Ox Tongues, in jelly, lidb. anti
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate. i „ ~, ..
„ _ , , ~ f “Rex” Camp Pie, in jelly, lib. tins.
Rex Beans, l 4 lb. tins. Puncheon Cheese, in soz. deco-
“ Rex” Sheep Tongues, in jelly, lib/tins. rated tins and soz. enamel jars.
“Rsx” Punch Tongues, in jelly, lib. fAlso “Rex” Parti, for cooking purposes,
tins. lib. prints. *
Foggitt, Jones’S Co. Ltd,,
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Baoon.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
The Everlasting Valve.
A BOON TO ENGINEERS .
Solves all
your Valve
Troubles.
Stops Leaks.
4
vQ
y.
ffl
Means
Mechanical
Efficiency,
Durability &
Economy.
Section of Valve
Saves time otherwise lost in Repairs, Re-grinding, Re-packing,
Write for Descriptive Leaflet to etc.
IM. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
350 George St., Sydney.
Martell’s
Brandy
is not only a delightful beverage, but
richness in the higher ethers makes it
medicinal spirit of the highest merit.
Perfect quality.
That rich, full, delicious “Thorne” flavor
is proof of the highest quality —proof of the
best selected malts, of faultless distilling and
ripe ageing.
Call for Thorne’s.
’ -;4,! .
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.-No. 1941.
THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 1917.
Price 6d.
THE LAST RESERVES.
THE IMPERIAL BLOODLETTER: “Bear up; bear up. Its all for my own good!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can hare The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted , whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., i'/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal. : Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Breiver and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id. ; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id. :
Kloz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ffi^&xzlZeZz/Ti.
THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 1917.
GERMANY.
Practically every great evil that has
befallen Europe since the Christian era was
hatched in Asia or made in Germany. The
force that overcame the Roman Empire and
destroyed the world-peace which even a very
poor sort of Cassar could generally contrive
to maintain was Teutonic. The Vandals and
Visi-Goths who broke up for centuries the
civilisation of Spain were of the German
race. So were the Saxons who destroyed
Roman culture in Britain, and the Normans
who centuries later arrived to oppress the
new Celto-Saxon race of England. The
Franks who despoiled Gaul and reduced a
flourishing and civilised Celtic community
to serfdom belonged to the same stock. The
northern adventurers who exploited Russia
and later developed into Czars and Grand-
dukes were all of the German breed. Every
tyranny that the European lands groaned
under, every red trail of blood across the
green fields of peace and plenty, could be
traced to storm centres in Germany. It is
no exaggeration provoked by the long, bitter
war against Prussian militarism, but the
plain word of history, that Germany has
been first and last the plague spot of Europe.
The fall of the Roman power left a civil-
ised world, somewhat emasculated by long
security and equal law, at the mercy of
hordes of hard-fighting savages. Those
hordes overthrew every remnant of settled
rule, built themselves castles to overawe the
lands they had conquered, and reigned as an
aristocracy from end to end of Europe, over
races higher in the scale of human develop-
ment than themselves. The awful tragedy
of the ravaging of Southern Gaul in the
later Middle Ages by the French king and
his allies was but a repetition after a lapse
of centuries of the sort of thing that had
occurred in practically every country. In
the city of Toulouse and the surrounding
districts the people had secured a little
elbow-room in which to move, and had
become richer, more cultured and freer in
thought and opinion than any of their neigh-
bors. In the money-markets of the day
the Count of Toulouse had better credit than
the kings of France and England put to-
gether. The citizens of the place had
become altogether too fine for a world ruled
by German brigands, and a general crusade
was declared against them which equalled
in horror and thoroughness of destruction
the worst deeds of the Teutonic Normans in
Ireland. This was typical of the whole
period from the fifth century to the dawn of
modern democracy: and the rise of that
democracy was a fierce struggle for liberty
against a landed aristocracy descended from
the leaders of German raiding hordes.
The key of all this is to be found in the
story of prehistoric Europe as written in
the grave-mounds and refuse-tips of bygone
ages. When Rome was a Siculian sheep-
run and Athens a Pelasgian cow-pasture the
great Aryan race occupied all Europe from
the Urals to the Pyrenees, with the excep-
tion of Lapland, Finland. Etruria and the
dark, unwholesome forests of Germany. In
Etruria was an Asiatic wedge of population,
and in the German forest-lands dwelt a
race of mighty bloodthirsty as the
Apache Indians, and as rude and primitive
as anything known among the races of men
to-day. Somebody has described those people
of the forest as huge white bodies, slow to
love, slow to hate, cold friends and terrible
foes. They were the progenitors of the
modern ruling classes of Germany and of
the waning aristocracy of Europe. To keep
them to their forests and never let them come
out to a place in the sun was the main task
of the Aryan race. They were too dan-
gerous to have at large. Incapable of keep-
ing faith, they had no desire or love for
peace ; and all the things that began to make
life sweeter and more wholesome for the
nobler races of men were to them mere
weakness and vexation. In their primitive
religion their chief god was an outsized
murderer who, tired of the slaughter of
others, hanged himself for sheer joy of kill-
ing. For perhaps 10,000 years the Aryans,
from whom sprang Latin, Celt and Slav,
kept the tiger thing in the forest at bay.
Then Rome rose and the world changed.
Into the great net of the Roman Empire
were drawn many lands and peoples; but
the Danube and the Rhine remained bound-
aries, and the German problem was not
dealt with. A subtle change, too, had come
over the forest. Its people had learned a
little from their age-long foes beyond their
own cage. They had adopted just as much
of the primitive civilisation around them as
might make them more formidable in war;
but a slight race admixture had lifted them
a degree above their former squalor and
added something of force and intelligence to
their murder-lust. The German who broke
bounds and overthrew Rome was a very dif-
ferent person from the German whom the
lake-dwellers hunted under the oak-trees;
but he was a rude monster still.
Romans even while their city and power
were crumbling to the German assault,
laughed at the clumsy lack of intelligence
shown by the conqueror; and the Goth vic-
torious had no ability to create any sort of
empire or stable dominion of his own on the
wreck of the thing which his own meat-axe
had smashed. llis attack on civilisation
appears to have had no other pfirpose than
the sheer love of slaughter, with reckless
plunder and rapine as minor accompani-
ments.
Modern Germany differs from the Ger-
many which produced Goth, Vandal,
Visi-Goth. Lombard and Frank as much
as the Germany of that day differed from
the forests where the original white savage
nursed his earliest dreams of blood. In the
first place the so-called German people is
not more than three-fourths tainted with
the real German strain. When the savage
burst from his jungles he conquered the
open places in his vicinity first; and it is
the aristocracy and ruling class of Germany
that to-day represents the meat-chopping
brigand of the past. Skull measurements of
European races, which are a far surer test
than language or dialect, show the cleavage
pretty dearly in the so-called German
nation. Where beyond the Rhine the poet,
scientist and musician have arisen they are
never of the race-type of those who still
maintain the government of the country;
but the tragedy of Europe to-day is found
in the fact that the person who has still
the fighting, destroying instincts of the
original German savage has been able to
use the bigger brain and higher thought of
the underlying conquered race for purposes
which in the view of advancing mankind
are absolutely insane. Sanity and progress
led by insanity to rend and destroy is about
the last terrible futility the human mind
could conceive; and that is what Europe
during the last three years has been witness-
ing. The new outbreak of the German is.
in fact, an exact repetition of the thing that
occurred at the break-up of the Roman
Empire with the powers of invention and
organisation added. Still, the proportions of
things remain much as they were. The
German average of mental power as com-
pared with that of other nations is not high.
The military preparation which occupied
Germany for 40 years has been outdone by
England and France in two : while the sup-
posed marvellous advances of the Teuton
in arts, sciences and manufactures will
scarcely stand a close examination. “Made
in Germany” has been in most cases a brand
for shoddy or a theft, whether the shoddy
or the theft took the form of a machine, a
fabric or a systeifv. of philosophy. London
employers declared some years ago that
Germfm clerks were cheaper than English,
but 30 per cent, slower. There you have the
secret of a lot of things, including the
Prussian Guard and Htndenbttrg’s strategy.
There is a cheapness about all the German
does, but he keeps behind the other nations
in the race for supremacy. The interming-
ling of primitive German instincts with the
non-German talent in Germany, while it
has brought the so-called nation within 30
ner cent, of its rivals in the realm of indus-
-1 rial and commercial achievement, lias done
something to weaken the sheer tiger fury
of the ancient savage within it. The Ger-
man has % the will and the hate to fight well,
but he is not the all-destroying fighter his
Gothic ancestor was. Others who think
30 per cent, better fight 30 per cent, better
too; and the great war moves towards its
natural ending in German shame and defeat.
* * * *
Yet the primitive savage under a veneer
of kultur and a spiked helmet was all too
uearly successful in repeating the Gothic
rush of 15 centuries ago. But for the
mysterious events at the Marne he might
have broken modern civilisation as com-
pletely as that of Rome was broken. The
long peace of the nations of larger view and
bigger hope had paved the way. Men had
forgotten that a remorseless savage still
lurked in the forest —a savage that was
labelled “German Progress”—and were
utterly unprepared. Now that our victory
is in our own hands, it remains for us to
solemnly resolve that the problem of the
underlying savage in the German make-up
shall be dealt with finally. How is not yet
clear. It may be by German revolution
itself—by a revolution undertaken by the
better Germany that has never yet had a
voice in its own government. One thing is
certain. The world cannot afford to treat
a mad tiger even in the agonies of defeat
as if it were a sheep-dog that had
fought the neighboring fox-terrier and
might be the better friends after the
encounter. The blood punishment of nations
is a hideous thing and hardly to be thought
of even in the case of a people that has
combined to murder the sick on the high
seas; but it is a plain cold fact that had
some ancient Roman conqueror given every
German from the Rhine to the Vistula a
ride to Father Odin on his own gallows-
horse, there would have been a thousand
innocent lives saved in after years for every
Teutonic person thus done to death. The
best hope seems to lie in the ceaseless vigil-
ance such as the old lake-dwellers showed
while prowling murder held the murk of
the forest. All things German must be
hunted back to their old lairs and kept there.
The spirit of Germany can have no place
in the sun until it works out the old devil
and gets the blood-madness permanently out
of its thought.
THE LIBERAL YELL FOR FREEDOM.
One of the loudest reasons advanced for
giving the highly aromatic Phewsion a
majority is that by this means Australia
would acquire a Government able to “carry
out its policy without interference” —a Gov-
ernment of men “free to do what they like.”
The daily papers are harping on this string
morning, noon and night, and Phewsion can
didates are yelling themselves hoarse on the
subject. Altogether, it transpires, the elec-
tors of the Commonwealth will show their
great wisdom and sturdy democratic faith
in addition to their anxiety to win the war
by putting the Fusion in charge of the situa-
tion. In view of the fact that the chief
Liberal fugleman has hitherto spent most of
his time exhorting the populace to give
Liberalism the boot and has publicly rejoiced
when it lias happened, his enthusiasm for
the party of obstruction is a cheerful illus-
tration of adaptability to environment. Like-
wise the assurance of Joe Cook, that if he is
given a chance to handle public affairs he
will- proceed to do so on the basis' of a
policy he bitterly denounced as the work of
an enslaved and degraded Caucus, is a re-
minder that Joseph has in his time blown
off immense volumes of hot air. On their
own confessions, this pair of enterprising,
citizens have been frauds in the past
or are humbugging the people in the
present; and this does not seem to this paper
to be a particularly convincing reason why
they should be selected by Australia as the
individuals to be given freedom to “do what
they like.” But there is a method in all the
apparent madness. Liberalism has always
been strong on getting a chance to do what
it liked and has been intolerant of interfer-
ence when interference came from the wrong-
place. And when it has had the opportunity
to act, what has it done? The answer is
written on every page of Australian history.
It is a story of prolonged fumbling and
stumbling; of such futility and muddling
that even Liberals themselves were exas-
perated at their own record. Now they
want to be free from interference. But they
never will be free from interference. Never
for a day has Australian Liberalism been
free from the junta and the wirepuller. It
is not free now. It never can be. Liberal-
ism in this country is not a. cult; it is not
even a political party in any true sense. It
stands for nothing. It is an Interest —and
that is the beginning, middle and end of it.
Now, the people of Australia do not want
to be governed by Parliaments and Minis-
tries and obscure coteries carrying on busi-
ness in party cellars. They want to gov-
ern themselves. If they are sure of any-
thing at all it is this —that party-driven
Parliaments and junta-ridden Ministries and
machine-made politicians are a mockery of
popular self-government. Australians partly
learned this by bitter experience years ago
and the lessons of that time helped to bring
the Labor party and its paraphernalia of
pledges and platforms into existence. They
have had the earlier lesson emphasised since,
and know now that the way to freedom is
not to be found in Governments manacled to
a party joss or by giving this crowd or the
other of “officially selected candidates” a
free hand with the public cash-box and stat-
ute book, but by wresting from Parliaments
the power which shall give them a right to
the exercise of a real authority in the
determination of public policy. As it is now,
the people are the mere sport of warring
parties—the slaves of a system which long
ago outgrew its usefulness. Freedom of
Parliament! The only freedom the average
politician wants after settling down to liis
job is to fool the people, to use the machin-
ery of government for snaring votes, to
waste and dodge and shirk. This paper has
no love for juntas or caucus-made Minis-
tries. It loathes them all. But particularly
it loathes the Liberal junta. The influence
of that outfit is always sinister, always anti-
democratic. Labor at any rate has never
quite lost sight of the meaning of freedom—
never looked on the junta as anything better
than an instrument through which Parlia-
ment could be moved to extend popular
authority over the work of Parliament. The
party may at times have been foolish, cow-
ardly, even downright reactionai-y; but
behind it the force that gave it birth has
always been pushing towards the full enfran-
chisement of the people. And that way the
party must go or perish. Liberalism has
other ideas of a free Parliament and a free
people—the Legislature an autocracy; the
Ministry doing what it pleases; the share of
the electors merely to take part every three
years in a frantic disturbance about 735
different subjects and leave the rest to
chance.
The theory of a free Parliament has
been shattered by party. Parliament elected
on “tickets” cannot from the very nature of
its genesis be free, is never intended to be so,
and whenever it claims to govern by virtue
of its freedom it is masquerading in a disguise.
Parliaments and constituencies long since
were conducted by party to a dead-end and
have since been groping round for a way
out. If Australia gives Labor a majority it
will not elect a free Parliament, but one
controlled by an exterior authority beyond
the reach of the electors. In the event of a
Liberal majority emerging from the disturb-
ance, the same thing will happen, the pull
being exercised surreptitiously, instead of
more or less noisily. But there will be this
mighty difference: that Labor stands pledged
to give the Initiative Referendum a regular
place in the system of government ; Liberal-
ism stands pledged to oppose this being done.
The one side moves towards freeing the
people from the dolnination of an institution
held in bondage; the other towards provid-
ing more chains and hugging them as a pro-
tection against a freedom that would be
general instead of limited. When Cook and
Co. ask to be free, what do they want to do?
The reply has been given by themselves.
They stand as the declared opponents of
every useful, prudent step taken by Aus-
tralian Parliaments in recent years. They
were Freetraders almost to a man, showing
violent enmity to the development of Aus-
tralian industries. They were opponents of
the Australian Navy, of the Commonwealth
Bank, of widening the powers of the Com-
monwealth Parliament —against anything
and everything worth tuppence they have
raised wild shouts of protestation. Having
been proved devoid of vision and comprehen-
sion in the past, they now have the audacity
to present themselves as the proper crowd to
run Australian affairs “free from interfer-
ence.” This is an authority Australia can-
not afford to give to any body of men. To
ask it to make an exception in the case
of a crowd whose main testimonial is that
it was blind and greedy and unimagina-
tive and tricky on previous occasions shows
at any rate a profound trust in popular gulli-
bility.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney. ]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Necessity for Clear Thinking.
Sydney Telegraph smites the nail square
on the head :
If fortified by a majority the National Ministry
will bi able to spend the whole of its time thinking
about winning the war.
Of course. That is just what the Pliewsion
wants to do —just what its loud, braggart
talk boils down to. The Phewsion can do
no more than Labor has done to win the war
—and knows it. Under no conceivable cir-
cumstances could Tudor do less than
announce that his policy consisted of think-
ing over the subject with great assiduity.
“Elect us and we will win the war” yell
Cook and Hughes. “Certainly!” chimes in
the Telegraph. “Elect them and they will
spend their days and nights thinking the
subject over.” The outlook is distinctly
cheerful. With the Phewsion on top the
Telegraph will be publishing something of
this sort
OPENING OF PARLIAMENT.
Vigorous Defence of Ministerial Policy.
Melbourne, Friday. —When the House of Represen-
tatives met to-day it was noticed that members wore
an anxious look. This gave support to the rumors
lately in circulation that the Opposition intended to
take advantage of their Parliamentary privileges and
force the Ministry to make a statement of policy.
The anticipations proved correct. Ministers entered
the House carrying large bundles of documents. Mr.
Higgs carried a defiant air. Mr. Bruce Smith had
evidently dressed in a hurry in order to.be on time.
A spot of dust could be detected on the lapel of his
coat. As soon as the Speaker took his seat Mr.
Higgs rose. .
“I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question,”
he said.
Mr. Willie Kelly: Shame!
This was the signal for a tremendous demonstra-
tion. Ministerialists sprang to their feet and sang
the new National Anthem, “£ s. d.”
Mr. Hughes : Never mind! If they want an
answer, by heavens they shall have it! (Cheers.)
Mr. Higgs : Very well. Is the Ministry aware
that the war has now entered its sixth year ? It
has not been won. Has the Prime Minister any ex-
planation to oiler of the failure of the Government
to redeem its pledges or any further reason to
advance for declining to place his policy before this
House? (Opposition cheers.)
Mr. Hughes was rapturously applauded by his
party on rising to reply. He said: This is part of
tiie conspiracy which meets the Government on every
hand, paralysing its efforts and sustaining the
enemy. The Ministry has been true to every pledge
it made. Show me a single plank of our platform
to which any of us have been untrue! We have
given the war continuous thought. We were think-
ing about it yesterday. We will think about it to-
morrow. Let us, I say, be true to ourselves and
think of nothing else; for this is the one thing
that matters, the one thing that overshadows our
lives anil our liberties, spurring us on to more con-
centrated cogitation, as should be the case with
every man in whose breast the fire of patriotism
is not dead, and whose spirit revolts against the
insidious efforts of secret juntas to bring about an
ignoble, premature peace. What canting, hypocritical
humbug is this which venomously attacks the Govern-
ment and brings atrocious charges of betraying
pledges against me and my associates, with our
stupendous record of things done for Labor, for Aus-
tralia, for the Empire! This Government stands for
freedom to pursue its thinking about the war with
the utmost vigor and determination. (Cheers.) It
refuses to be sandbagged. (Cheers.) It declines
to be hurried into premature action. (Cheers.) It
stands for the mass of the people. (Renewed cheers.)
It is not resting on its oars. It is not anarchical.
It is devoting the whole of its time to thinking—
thinking—thinking—of how this terrible conflict may
be ended, and asks for the support of every loyal


Vustralian in this hour of agonising brain sweat.
(Loud and prolonged applause.)
Mr. Tudor : May I ask what the Government pro-
poses to do?
Mr. Cook : Bah !
The sitting concluded with cheers. Members of
the Opposition were obviously much depressed by
the vigor arriir completeness of the Ministerial defence.
[To express the views of The Bulletin', by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wrigiit, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
Maoriland Labor Slices Another Bit Off
Its Nose.
If it be true that the Maoriland coal-miners
are striking because Parliament refuses to
repeal the Military Service Act, they are
merely giving additional evidence that Labor
in the Dominion is determined to go on
openly confessing its ineptitude. By blindly
hitting at the whole community, they are
playing right into the hands of their oppo-
nents. and doing it at a time when the oppor-
tunities for Labor to mould the public policy
and social conditions of the country and
enlist the sympathy and support of the
great majority of the people, were peculiarly
favorable. Fat could ask for nothing better
than this, unless it be a direct challenge to
argue whether in time of war —or any other
time, for that matter —the right of veto over
the work of the Legislature belongs to the
people or to the Miners’ Union. If such an
issue is pressed to the point of final decision,
this paper is disposed to think that it would
be within the competence of the Maoriland
Government to make the miners wish they
had not spoken in such a hurry. Look at it
how you like, Labor has nothing what-
ever to gain by this strike except experi-
ence. But it has a lot to lose. The intro-
duction of compulsory service has raised
problems in relation to the rights of private
property and of capital and of the obliga-
tions of the State which could have been
used by Labor to secure a support it prob-
ably never dreamed of getting. The cost of
living; the question of taxation ; the annexa-
tion of war profits and their conversion into
permanent debt: the growth of the mort-
gage on national industry; the relative
social value on the one hand of the men and
women who toil and of the soldier who
fights, and on the other of the whole tribe,
of rent-mongers and miscellaneous profiteers
—all these matters go to the heart of the
country’s politics and affect in a very inti-
mate way the present and future interests
of the people. The public mind is greatly
exercised about them. The Ministry has
fumbled them from beginning to end. It is
shirking its obvious duties as shamelessly as
it is dodging a general election; and Labor
with its mouth full of rant offers the people
nothing better than a threat to cut off the
nation's coal supplies, thereby inconveniencing
and impoverishing thousands. of citizens.
The agility shown by the Maoriland Govern-
ment in gaoling a few noisy recalcitrants
may possibly have been the result of Machia-
vellian foresight. This paper does not know\
It was a provocative thing to do anyhow;
but Labor is making a huge mistake in
accepting the invitation to put its neck in a
noose. Maoriland might through the Mili-
tary Service Act have been pushed miles
along the road to the place Labor wants to
reach but has mislaid the name of. It
would have been so in Australia, too, if the
breeching had not been preferred to the
collar.
♦
In Happy Austria.
Exactly what is taking place in Austria
is clear to nobody; but all indications sug-
gest that the country is hungry and miser-
able to the point of revolution. The wretch-
edness of the army could be guessed from
last year’s appeal of the military authorities
for old civilian clothing to keep the soldiers
warm through a winter of trench warfare;
and if the army has been suffering badly, it
is safe to say that the condition of the
poorer part of the civil population is ill
indeed. The diversity of race over which
the Emperor Karl rules makes the situation
the more; precarious. Those of German stock
are not in one place, but broken up and
scattered from the Tyrol to the borders of
Roumania. Nearly half Hungary and Tran-
sylvania is Roumanian in race, with Magyar
and German settlements dotted here and
there. Bohemia is more than half Slavonic
and Galicia almost entirely so; while intru-
sive wedges of all sorts of races and isolated
villages entirely unlike the rest in the dis-
trict add to the human patchwork. Revolu-
tion in a country like this must be different
from revolution anywhere else. Racial fac-
tion fights must take all sorts of tones and
colors; and the feuds of dead and buried
centuries will become living things again
once the fire is properly alight. A clever
Government might use race against race and
village agginst village to preserve some sort
of show of central authority; but the Aus-
trian Government is not clever. Further,
it is so pressed from without that it has no
force to quell rebellion within and no bread
to bribe the people into quiet. So the mem-
bers of Parliament are resigning their seats
that, they may scuttle into hiding; and the
Germans in Roumania are burning things
in order to get out and away as far as
possible from the southern storm centres.
That, at any rate, is what present occur-
rences suggest; and the guess is as likely as
any other.
*•«
Repatriation and Prolonged Talk.
The Repatriation scheme, according to the
papers last week, has been “freely explained”
by MiLlen. He explained it in two columns
and a half, and then the explanation got lost
in words and disappeared calling loudly for
a rescue party. “It is not possible,” said
Millen, “to give details of the scheme, so
I will indicate the principle upon w'hich the
great national work should proceed and pre-
sent certain aspects of the matter which
appear worthy of public consideration.” The
Bulletin puts it to the Senator as a man
and a brother that a repatriation scheme
minus details is just about as futile as a
balance-sheet without figures. The subject
is essentially one of detail. On this it must
turn, since the details are the beginning and
end of whatever principle may be concealed
in the mind of the individual who drafts the
scheme. Most Australians have grown un-
utterably weary of being presented with
dollops of dough about Repatriation. The
subject seems from the first to have been
eagerly seized upon as one for putting up a
vote-catching “stall” on soldiers and civilians
alike. The difficulties in connection with it
have been absurdly exaggerated. Recognition
appears to be completely denied to the obvi-
ous fact that at bottom the business is
inseparably connected with the development
of Australian industry. Instead, there is
discerned an apparent excuse for more bor-
rowing. Thus nebulous talk has proceeded
from a proposal to “raise funds by voluntary
subscription” to another based on a “levy on
wealth,” on to the latest project for “borrow-
ing £22,000,000.” If this sum is borrowed
the public can rely with the greatest confi-
dence on more than half of it being wasted
in the fashion habitual to Australian admin-
istrations. The Bulletin’s main concern in
connection with the war is that the wounded
and the sick, the widows and the orphaned
children, shall be the nation’s first care, and
it has a great scepticism about all these
yarns concerning “farms” and “small
blocks” and “business undertakings” for the
others. Anyway, it wants to see the scheme,
whatever it is, down in black and white, so
that the taxpayers may understand it, and
particularly the soldiers themselves. Mean-
while, has the Phewsion or has it hot a plan
by which a man returning from the war
may find out where the goods are delivered,
and get delivery of them? The war has been
going on over two years and a half. Thou-
sands of men have returned. Will Millen
or someone explain where these men can get
assistance —real assistance, not words ?
The Enemies of Recruiting.
The Tasmanian State Recruiting Commit-
tee has rebelled at last, and flung this in the
face of the Phewsion; —
This committee protests against tile abuse of the
Win-the-War expression, and states that any person,
party or organisation utilising tbit Win-the-War
expression for any purpose whatsoever; save that
directly associated with recruiting‘3sActing in revolt
against the repeated appeals of the Director-General,
and can be, with justice, accused-. of an act of
prejudicing recruiting, and,.in the-circumstances, of
disloyalty. • ———- rr -~-..
The time is just about ripe fpS every decent
man in the Commonwealth to tell the Phew-
sion what he thinks .of a gang which
because of the lust of a handful of short-
weight politicians for oublic office and pay.
is turning into ridicule the dearest ambi-
tions of 99 per cent, of the Australian people
and making the nation’s patriotism a jest.
The insolence of these windy patriots who
have decorated the headquarters of a politi-
cal combine with the banner of our army’s
valor is a gross affront to every honest citi-
zen. By what moral right do they dare
associate Australia at war with a frowsy
partnership clinched by the distribution of
portfolios, after much haggling and huck-
stering, in Melbourne? What shadow of
excuse have they to justify the allegation
that people who want to win the war must
vote for Hughes and Cook —that the other
side stands for poltroonery and defeat?
They have none—nothing but the degrading
impulse to use the war as a party howl and
take a coward’s shelter behind the easily-
stirred emotions of the crowd. It is a dis-
graceful thing for them to do. and if anyone
else can distinguish it morally from the
worst examples Australia has had of men
deliberately hindering enlistment, The Bul-
letin cannot. The issues at stake in the
, election are being deliberately obscured,
people defamed, the national patriotism dis-
torted, and all this to serve the purposes
of a mob who on their own admission are
now ratting upon the point which a little
while ago they asserted was the test by
which the patriot could be aistinguished from
the traitor. The distinction is easier now.
No one political party or politician in this
country possesses a monopoly of desire to
defeat the German; and the next man heard
howling that he and his political crowd
alone are the patriots may safely be put in
the same category as the dingo.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 211
George Street, Sydney.]
The Pliewsion’s Appropriation of the
Junta’s Policy.
It is a common belief that Conscription
expired on October 28 through being smitten
by the strong arm of the people. As with
most other common beliefs this one has a
lot the matter with it. Conscription quali-
fied for the morgue in consequence of the
weakness of Pearce and the almost incred-
ible blunders of Hughes. The people merely
completed the massacre. The Bulletin
advocated Conscription immediately the war
broke out and continued to do so, certainly
with conviction, and, it hopes, not without
some cogency. The question of numbers
never in this paper’s judgment deserved any
important place in the discussion. Whether
the country raised 500 or 500,000 soldiers it
seemed to The Bulletin, and seems so still,
that the rational and democratic method of
getting them was upon the basis of compul-
sory service. Had it not been for the oppo-
sition of Hughes and Fisiier there is
little doubt that the Australian expedition-
ary force would have been so raised and that
the opposition would have been negligible.
This paper is free to admit that, perhaps,
with our tremendous obligations, the adop-
tion of compulsory service would have im-
posed on the Commonwealth the raising of an
army very little greater than we have already
in the field. Australia could not be •‘combed”
to anything like the extent of densely-popu-
lated countries. Hughes’s arithmetic on
the subject was starkly mad. But Australia
to-day is not concerned with the remains of
that riotous argument. The plain fact is that
Conscription is as dead as mutton. To
revive it as an issue would be futile. And
it is just at this point that the Phewsion
violently stubs its toe. It says (1) that the
people who in Parliament oppose Conscrip-
tion are disloyal, do not want to win the war
and so on; (2) that the Phewsion will win
the war. Asked how it will win the war it
says (1) that if disaster arrives on the
premises, but not until them, it will give the
public a chance to reverse the vote of
October 28; (2) that in the meantime it
will go on winning the war by doing as was
done by the disloyal individuals who want to
lose. Asked then to explain where the divid-
ing line is between the policy that contains
all the virtues of patriotism and the policy
that is vile as Hell (Hughes copyright),
the Phewsion springs frantically about the
platform making incoherent remarks about
the I.W.W. This is not giving the public a
fair deal. The Phewsion apparently realises
—and rightly enough, too —that its recent
talk about Conscription was silly. It is
now backing away from it. Hughes is
desperately trying to save his face by talk-
ing voluntaryism at the top of his voice.
Even Willie Kelly is qualifying. Bruce
Smith is definitely announcing himself
against giving Conscription another run.
They all know they are tied to a corpse, but
their trouble is that if they cut the horrible
thing adrift they are at once in a serious
difficulty—of virtually having to ask the
electors to give the Phewsion a majority that
it may win the war by carrying on in the
same way as the Opposition it denounces in
27 languages. All this boils down to the
obvious conclusion that the Phewsion is as
barren of war policy as of decency, and is
relying upon forcing its way by weight of
perjury to where it can annex the policy of
the other fellow. The Phewsion calls this
patriotism. The Bulletin • calls it trickery
of a very dirty sort.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
We have to thank the King for being allowed
to know at last that there are Australian
reserve divisions in England under Brigadier-
Generals Maclagan and Baton. The inform-
ation was cabled in connection with the
Royal inspection of Australians at Salisbury.
The Defence Department might now tell us
something more about those reserve divisions.
For week after week the mothers and sisters
who have sons and brothers at the Front
have been told that the Labor party had
stood in the way of reinforcements, and
pictures have been drawn of spent
men being compelled to hang on for want
of fresh men to replace them. The unscru-
pulous crowd, which, in defiance of the pro-
tests of the non-partisan Director-General of
Recruiting, continues to call itself the Win-
the-War party, has used this appeal for all
it was worth as a means of prejudicing the
people against the Honest party. Now, on
top of Tudor’s declaration that thus far over
five times the number required to repair
wastage have gone forward, comes the signi-
ficant confession that there are “reserve
divisions under Brigadier-General Maclagan
and Brigadier-General Baton.” It is up to
the Defence Department to explain how
those reserve divisions have been built up if
not out of reinforcements in excess of re-
quirements. Incidentally it might explain
why the public has been kept in the dark
about them if it was not for a party politi-
cal purpose.
“D.D.”: Last week was cold in N. S.
Wales and woollen goods were very dear and
scarce. Many a youngster shivered in his
cotton shirt, which now supersedes the
flannel, the latter being out of reach of all
but the affluent. Meanwhile the military
stores are full to overflowing, with scores of
thousands of yards of flannel and a similar
quantity of made-up garments, a long way
above all reasonable requirements. The
position is similar in regard to khaki goods
—only worse. Blankets are selling at
treble pre-war prices, yet the military stores
hold sufficient quantities beyond their needs
to supply the normal requirements of the
civil population of Sydney for a year. All
these goods are liable to serious and rapid
deterioration. I would not bother remind-
ing Bearce of the foregoing were it not
for the probability that Bearce doesn’t
know, and never did know. In this matter
he is possibly the victim of the censorship
within the Branch responsible for the mud-
dle. This Branch issued instructions pro-
hibiting any information being supplied
regarding stocks of material, etc., ostensibly
for fear that the leakage of such information
would be of value to the enemy, or that it
might discourage recruiting. Whatever
effect it may have on the former I do not
know, but in order to dispel any misgivings
in respect of the latter will The Bulletin
please make a special appeal for 500,000
recruits to enlist at once, in order to save
these valuable stocks of materials from the
moth and silver-fish?
«
“0.K.” : Joe Cook' says that “some of. the
propositions in Mr. Tudor’s manifesto no
one would disagree with, such as the repeal
of the Daylight Saving Act.” I am one who
would disagree. The trouble with the Act was
that it did not come into operation until half
of the Spring was spent. It has not therefore
had a fair chance in Australia. The bloom
was off its cheek ere the early-rising workers
made its acquaintance, hence they regarded
it as a silly old thing. If the repeal is post-
poned until next September all the wind
The Dawn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Special significance is attached to Mr. Bonar
Law’s statement in the House of Commons that he
believed the long night of sorrow and anguish which
had desolated the world is drawing to a close.”
It is the dawning. Red the lightnings glare,
Sheet, forked and globular across the night.
The bolted death sings through the stinging
air,
The bullets whistle in their murder-flight.
The smitten darkness writhes in agony ;
The broad earth shakes with thunderings of
doom,
Wet with the blood of legions forced to die
At Hell’s red lip. And in the eastern sky
The rose of dawn is breaking into bloom!
Steady the long advance. Far league on
league
Is heard the rising cheer of hope and pride,
Where stern-eyed valor meets the long
intrigue
That, linking force to fraud, a world defied.
How are the mighty fallen! Knee to knee
And rank to rank despair and triumph meet;
And in the shock the fight is to the free.
Shame cringes, reels; and all the nations see
The weak clay of the brazen idol’s feet.
But yesterday as straws before a wind
Blown by long gusts out of a midmost hell
The nations bowed their heads; and valor,
blind
With stubborn tears, in pride of manhood
fell
A reeking sacrifice to steel-armed hate.
The long night closed around us bleak and
cold ;
And up the valleys crept a mist of Fate
Before a mournful breeze that mourned “Too
late!”
And seemed about the hearts of men to fold.
Our graves were many and our ranks were
thin,
But hope, star-white, above the carnage rose;
And faith, thrice slain, had yet the will to
win
A narrow field from its blood-moated foes.
Flame to meet flame we wrought and steel
to steel
Went hurtling through the storms of yester-
year ;
And ever in the death-pent track of fear
We taught the guns that spoke for truth to
peal.
The vast machine of ruin bent like sedge
Where man’s wild valor smote it through the
smoke,
Our months of striving left a ragged edge
Of that long battle-line, nor bent nor broke
The awful thing that held the mastery
Of lands and peoples in its murder-sway.
“Hope on,” we said, “the night shall pass
away,
The full dawn break above our agony !”
Sudden the clamor of advancing men !
The blackness breaks in louder, longer fire !
A wind of spring has parched the winter’s
fen.
Green hill-slopes hear the march of our
desire.
On, on and ever on! They break, they fly!
Our flame has mastered theirs; and. man
to man,
War sways, as ever since the world began.
Against the host that framed and loved the
Lie.
Fngland and France ! Valor to valor joined.
With Truth the splendid banner over all.
Our hope rings true—fire tested, courage
coined —
At last the Prussian staggers to his fall !
Our graves are many ; but the voice of doom
Shrills a clear note above the storm and
flame. .
Manhood is master over manhood’s shame —
The rose of dawn is breaking into bloom !
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Steppes and the Bush.
Randolph Bedford’s curse :— ■
Up in Japan they told me a story of a Russian
prisoner in Siberia, a one-time comfortable villager
in Western Russia sentenced to life-banishment for
beating his daughter to death.
It appears that it is not uncommon there to kiss
and tell. The chivalrous young man, to gain the
applause of his fellows, smears with pitch the door
of the father of the loving, the willing and the
weak. The act becomes part of the language in the
phrase—“To paint a man’s door with pitch.”
To wipe out the stain the father beats the daughter
—'Sometimes more, sometimes less. In this case
the gallant had really not succeeded with the girl;
yet to win applause he had smeared with pitch the
father’s door and was acclaimed hero. The father
beat the innocent girl to death, and to cap the rustic
joke was sent to Siberia.
That seems bad because it comes from afar; yet
the example has its fellow a few hundred miles from
Sydney.
It was in an old orchard, an orchard tangled to
degeneration, producing cherries good to the eye and
bitter in the mouth. The subject was an honest-
faced country girl who told a plain tale—seeing no
shame for herself, but for the deserter. She had had
three children; the two living were well nourished
and strong, just the sort of native-born immigrant
Australia wants.
“I went to Sydney to be confined the first time,”
she said. “A place they called a Home of Hope
took me in there. I saw no Hope in it. I paid
three pounds, and for three months before the child
was born I worked in the laundry from half-past
eight in the morning till half-past five at night. I
worked right up till the night before the baby was
born. When baby was a week old the matron
wanted to send me back to the country. I refused,
as I wanted to look after my baby. I did housework
till I left, three weeks after baby was born. Other
girls worked just as I did. They wanted me to go
to a nursing-home for eight shillings a week, but
I said I wasn’t going to Jeave my child to the
mercy of the waves.”
“The mercy of the waves! Did you say that ?”
“Of course mother and father paid my fare home.
... .Then that little girl was born. Yes, he was
the father, but his people are well off and he asked
me to keep quiet, as they’d disown him. So I
brought the child up and never asked him for a
penny. He’d never come here, so that nobody would
see him with me. He’d only walk with me when I
was going to set rabbit-traps. Before this baby
came I sent for him and he told me to my face
that he’d never spoke to me before. He said he’d
swear black was white he’d never met me. So T
snatched his hat and ran away with it to the police.”
“Why did you do that?”
“Evidence that he had met me But don’t let
the inspector take my children away!”
The inspector of the State Children’s Department
said that he wouldn’t and told her not to cry.
“And he made me that mad denying me that I
hit him and he said ‘Ooh.’ I got an order against
him. but he’s appealed and it’s such a big expense
on father.”
“Father,” a mild old man, half hidden in his
straw hat and more than half masked by whiskers,
said he hoped it wouldn’t happen again. If it did
he’d have to move, and he was kind of fixed in the
district. And the good girl, eating the bitter bread
of the unmarried mother, said that she wouldn’t be
without the children, anyway.
Back in the village we were told the story of
verdict and appeal with much chuckling admiration
of the cleverness of the gallant who escaped Conse-
quence so far.
On the evidence of the good girl in the orchard
of bitter cherries, a man does not have to go to
Vladivostock for a sample of the joke that sent a
hasty father to Siberia. Convention is the protection
of many a knave, and high morality lives in the
library and rarely goes from home.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill. Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that, the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
&. King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, Ceneral Manager.
The Fx. 8 R. WATCHES
are the most extraordinary Watches of the agre.
They are f-plate levers.
They have brequet overcoil hair springs.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They are specially made to stand rough riding and knocking
about.
They go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order free of
charge (breakages excepted) for 2 years.
In Gent.’s Full-sized O'.F. Oxidised Steel Case, 35/6.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS Ltd.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET,
■Cent’s full-
sized, open-
faced Ox.
Steel Fx. &
R. fully-
jewelled
Lever Watch,
35/6.
With 7
jewels, 30/-
y\ w /
f*air!»» t r
V Syrf-, y *
s=3
will have gone out of the present demand for
a repeal, though most people will admit that
the saving might reasonably be restricted to
live months. Considered in the time when
the sap runs up the trees and pimples bud
on the small boy’s brow, the Act will have
no earnest opponents save open-air picture-
showmen and some of the couples who want
all the darkness they can get for canoodling.
The fact is that the folks who disagree with
Tudor’s proposition which Cook endorses
are the crowd that doesn’t go to meetings to
hear politicians talk —the crowd 'that is sick
of party politics and would care nothing if
,Toe Cook’s funeral was to-morrow. In fact,
I almost feel that I ought to apologise to
my co-mates and brothers in disgust for
having troubled to rise and contradict
Joseph.
»
Business as Usual.
What in the name of the Sacred Sausage is
the good of asking the German to knock off
torpedoing hospital ships because it is
“against the laws of civilised warfare” and
is generally horrible and barbarous? The
ruling German cares nothing about these
things. He never did. He never will. To
be barbarous is part of his nature. From
the first day he started out to kill he has
practised frightfulness with the deliberate
intention of being frightful. There is no
moral difference between killing unarmed
civilians in Belgium, bombarding open towns
and villages in England, blowing up passenger
steamers at sea—-no difference between
these things and sinking a vessel with
a cargo of wounded soldiers. People
who drop shells into hospitals and
dressing-stations near the Front naturally
introduce explosions into hospitals on
the water if they get a chance, and are
disappointed if a chance is missed. Protesta-
tion against this cold-blooded sort of murder
is, in the circumstances of the case, about as
useful as making objection to Von llinden-
burg drinking lager bier. The really import-
ant point about the destruction of hospital
ships is not that the German is carrying on
business as usual. It rests, rather, in the
revelation of how serious a menace the sub-
marine is. When these surreptitious instru-
ments can sink vessels travelling in carefully-
guarded zones, the character of the peril to
shipping elsewhere can be easily guessed. It
is not very cheerful to think about either, for
apart from the hospital-ship calamities the
revealed facts bearing on the subject gener-
ally are more or less meaningless. Mean-
vvhile the battle by land has -developed in
size and intensity into something that the
mind can hardly grasp. When last heard
from the fray was raging over a front meas-
uring 120 miles, and will apparently con-
tinue to rage for months and months and
months. The immediate point in dispute is
whether the enemy can be blasted out of his
new place of abode; and connected with .this
is the problem of what is going to occur over
on the other side when the argument con-
cerning Ivan is resumed. Whatever the
answers may be there can be no doubt that
the preliminary bloodshed will be appalling
and the supply of raw material to the Ger-
man oil and glycerine distilleries continuous.
If the yarn about these establishments has
foundation in fact, this paper is disposed to
regard it as the best news for 30 months.
And if the stories about the German fre-
quently going on strike is also dinkum, then
what the newspapers call ‘‘the outlook” shows
much improvement. But yarns about what is
happening behind the German lines deserve
to be taken at a heavy discount.
Hughes and Cook had a stroke of genius
or a hardening of the cheekbone Or some-
thing or other, with the result that volun-
teers rejected for military service are now
receiving a circular from these devoted
patriots. This insolent locument, portent-
ously addressed to a ‘‘Fellow Australian,”
sweeps away the last vestige of pretence that
the Phewsion is not working the war as a
party “stall.” Listen :
You offered your life on behalf of the Empire, but
your offer could not be accepted. You will now
naturally look to the nearest means to hand to assist
Australia in some other capacity than that of active
service.
And here is another bit:—•
The three National candidates are out to win the
war; that is the beginning and end of their pro-
gramme.
As a non-combatant, you carry a bullet in your
ballot-paper. Fire it for the National Party, and
thus do your duty as a rejected volunteer citizen of
Australia.
This is now your plain, honest path of duty, and
we know that you will no more shirk it than vou
did the greater sacrifice when you offered yourself.
Vote for the National Senators, get all your friends
and relatives to vote for them and work for them,
and thus do your share in helping to win the war.
To which The Bulletin would like to add
that if there is any decent man who feels no
shame at seeing fen Australian Ministry
employ the war as a vote-catching device,
very much in the same way as an insanitary
cadger utilises his “sick wife” when on the
trail of beer, such a citizen ought to find
out what he is afflict d with.
[To express the disgust of The Bulletin.
S. 11. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George Street, Sydney.
The Argus gives Leckie, the Phewsion
candidate for Indi, a boost as being among
the few men who have the necessary quali-
fications for inclusion in a National Parlia-
ment. Jack Leckie, it seems, played a dash-
ing game of football for Fitzroy, and a co-
operative butter-factory got the highest
price while he was “a prominent figure in
its direction.” This paper understands that
the proprietors of the Argus are looking
for an editor of the Australasian, rice
Flicker, deceased. The Bulletin can put
its esteemed contemporary on to the very
man. His name is Bill Squires. After mak-
ing his punch famous all over the world, he
went up to Tamworth and won a prize for
wheat, fat pigs or something at the local
show.
Westralia got a new Legislative Councillor
last week —Harry Boan, described as “a
prominent Perth merchant.” He was elected
unopposed to a vacancy caused by a death.
Harry Boan has every proper qualification
for membership of a second Chamber which
tells the people what laws they may pass.
He knows nothing whatever of politics, but
he has got rich by knowing how to buy and
sell stay-laces and millinery, lie and his
brother landed in Broken Hill in the early
days and. like many others, made that a
jumping-off place to the West. He is a
' good fellow who for a while thought he could
• better enjoy himself running racehorses in
Sydney and Melbourne than watching cus-
tomers pour into his Perth bargain-sale, But
be belongs to the Chosen race of shopkeepers,
and found out that he was wrong.
Pratten, one of the three N. S. Wales
Phewsion candidates for the Senate, sup-
plies a good illustration of the curse of
machine politics. He is a keen, practical
business man, and when, being a good Aus-
tralian. he desired to do something for Aus-
tralia in politics, he naturally stood as an
Independent. That first time he was de-
feated badly. He reckoned that the public
wanted a bit of educating perhaps; so once
more, wanting to work for his country just
as he had worked successfully for himself, he
offered himself to the electors. People who
had never seen him before told him that he
was the best thinker, the best speaker, and,
they judged, the best Australian running
for the seat. No doubt he was. Yet once
more Pratten was sprawling at the bottom
of the poll. Apparently that broke his
heart. Anyway, he gave in, and to-day he
is on the Phewsion ticket —a Protectionist
coupled up between two Freetraders, with
two Freetraders in the shafts. The Lord
sends men, and the Devil sends Party to
waste’ them.
In trying to put Ozanne into the frying-
pan, the political bosses of the Defence
Department have dropped themselves into
the fire. Ozanne was M.H.R. for Corio,
and as such enlisted and went to England.
Then, because Ozanne refused to join the
Phewsion, he was opposed, and the Phewsion
sought to justify itself by declaring that this
member, though in khaki, had broken leave
and failed to join his division when it em-
barked for the Front. If this is true, Ozanne
should have been dealt with by a military
tribunal. But, apparently, being a politician,
he wasn’t dealt.with, and is now on the way
to Australia in a passenger ship. General
Monash said by cable: —
I have only to report that this non-commissioned
officer was reported, through divisional channels, as
“Absent without leave upon embarkation of divi-
sion” to Australian administrative headquarters;
hut the latter authority appears to have taken no
action whatever in the matter, as nothing further
has been heard of him.
Ozanne hasn’t told his story yet; the only
tale we have is the Defence Department’s,
and on its own admission a man with politi-
cal influence has been privileged as no plain
Billjim would have been. This is a cynical
confession of a charge which The Bulletin
has repeatedly made against Pearce’s admin-
istration of the Defence Department; and a
more serious one is hardly possible.
The Speck’s new Governor, Francis’
Newdigate-Newdigate, who is in his 56th
year, has for nearly half his life been in the
House of Commons. He is the 18th member
of his family to write M.P. after his name.
His Ex. is an extensive landowner in
Warwickshire, Derbyshire and Middlesex, and
is not exactly in want of the £2780 a year
which the Speck insists on paying its
Excrescency. “George Eliot” was born on
his Warwickshire estate, and the originals
of some of the characters in her novels were
the then Newdigate squire and his relations.
The new man’s other claim to be remem-
bered lies in the fact that a literary ancestor
—Roger, one-time member for Oxford Uni-
versity—founded the Newdigate Prize for
Poetry somewhere about 1750.
[For any unsigned Plain English and other para-
graphs which require a signature under the Electoral
Act, S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George Street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The House that Jack Built”
Palace “Turn to the Right”
Royal “Jinker”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt's Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
£
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. *
Her Majesty’s “Canary Cottage”
Royal “The Marriage of Kitty”
Princess's “The Bunyip”
King’s “Very Good Eddie”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
“I’m stooing a noo mess,” Mrs. Bascom
remarked in the noble language of our
nooest Ally at the first performance of
“Turn to the Right” at Sydney Palace on
Saturday; but long before the play petered
out it proved itself the same old mess.
Apparently this kind of play is the only kind
available in the U.S., whether sought for
by the Firm or the Taits.
The comedy begins with a brilliantly-
written and complete little prologue, a satisfy-
ingly realistic one-acter. A pawn-shop scene
shows Joe Bascom arriving, just out of
prison, and being met by two of his gaol-
bird pals. Their natural expectations that
Joe would join them in a projected “deal”
are countered by Joe’s desire to go straight,
lie and his pals reluctantly part. Next he
is seen arriving at his mother’s peach-farm,
where he succeeds in concealing from his
mother and sister the fact that he has spent
a year in gaol. He arrives at an opportune
moment, since the peach-orchard is on the
point of being seized by the country store-
keeper, to whom Mrs. Bascom is in debt.
Joe, of course, has no money; but the leg
of coincidence intrudes, and Joe’s two gaol
friends arrive. They at once set to work to
“THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT”
AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
A lying mirror causes puzzled reflections by
Dame Stigant.
acquire the money necessary to liquidate the
debt, and being expert pocket-pickei-s and
safe-robbers the dahlers are swiftly secured.
Joe takes the cash thrust into his hand,
though he knows that it must have been
stolen, and the farm is saved ! In the next act
there occurs a complicated deal in peaches,
though it is not mentioned where the “crooks”
acquired the money over-night, and with the
arrival of a detective and his recognition
of the gaol-birds the climax familiar to “G.
R. Q. Wallingford” and other U.S. dramas
occurs and is solved in theusualway. But, also
as usual, a lot of things happen in the last
few minutes that are left unexplained and
uncorroborated. And then, with the play
ended, another act is tacked on, in which
nothing happens except persistent reports
of a dinner (off) and various automobeeeels
(also off), some trivial love-making and a
mechanical stage effect that would please
children but quite fails to achieve the
impression of realism.
* ■" * *
“Turn to the Right” is a play that doesn’t
turn anywhere; it drops dead half-way
along the road. How any American or
other authors could have tacked on that final
act, after having seen the final act of “Wal-
lingford,” without arresting themselves for
theft, is beyond this paper's comprehension.
But the whole play is so like its model that
probably the authors thought they might as
well go the whole hog.
The comedy element depend on the man-
ners and methods of the two “crooks,” and
the sentimental intei'est upon Joe’s mother.
Apparently the authors’ idea is that this
“dame” is so sweet that her influence con-
certs the most hardened characters to sweet-
ness. The two gaol-birds fall under her
influence from the moment she calls them
“boys.” Nobody, they almost sob, had ever
called them boys before. Even a detective
succumbs instantaneously to her charm.
Margaret Calvert hardly succeeds in convey-
ing the overpowering sweetness and per-
vasive charm of her character, and thus the
play lacks its sole excuse as a tribute to
American motherhood. But John Junior as
Muggs and Stapleton Kent as Gilly are
delightful specimens of the comic crook.
The latter’s motor-horn voice and grotesque
smile makes him easily first favorite. Their
methods of extracting information and
dalilers are delightful to watch. Walter P.
Richardson makes an efficient hero ; George
Chalmers, Vincent J. Dennis and Maurice
Dudley do well with character parts; Gas-
ton Mervale, the producer, contents himself
with a small but useful niche; and Lizette
Parkes, Nancye Stewart and Eileen Sparks
flap gracefully through flapper parts.
s[: * *
While the Royal Commissioner exposes
the waste at half-built Canberra, “The House
that Jack Built” defies the winds of finan-
cial criticism at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. If
Australia made its own pantos., next year’s
would he “The Capital that Jerry Built.”
The Follies shifted to their second gear
at Sydney Tivoli on Saturday, and got home
in good style, although Vera Pearce and
Thelma Itaye were not there to help. Danc-
ing Daisy*Yates worked overtime and helped
the audience to forget that the lead and sub-
lead were away ill for the evening. Bluett
and Gwen Lewis help the easy-running show
that goes past like a gale of confetti and silk
stockings.
4l
Wirths’ Circus, at the New Hippodrome,
Sydney, has broken the monotony of big
business with a wedding. Captain Huling,
who directs the seals, married a Miss Rose
Cameron during the week, and they’ll live
happily ever after —unless Mrs. Huling de-
mands the glossy coat belonging to one of
the beasts that lay the family’s breakfast-
egg, in a manner of speaking.
Love and revolutions in Sydney this week:
Hoyt's: “The Promise,” in which the bad-boy-of-
the-Tamily is pursued by a conscience and love
through a couple of interesting and thrilling scenes
in the American lumber trade, and finally settles
down as a respectable suburbanite.
Lyceum : “Americano,” a melodrama which pro-
vides reasonable excuse for Douglas Fairbanks to mix
stoush with love amt settle a South American revolu-
tion.
Crystal Palace : Wm. Desmond in battle with
liquor in “The Last of the Ingrams.” The usual lady
who applies the brakes also provides the necessary
scandal.
Whiffs of “Fun On The Bristol” are borne
to old playgoers upon the ’Murkan breezi-
ness of “Very Good Eddie,” now doing its
bit at Melbourne King’s. The first act is
understood to be happening aboard a river
steamboat, where the black steward who used
to attend to the spiritual wants of the late
Widow O’Brien occurs again, in older form,
as Charles Pope. Also recent recollections
of “Fair and Warmer” are disturbed from
their first sleep when newly-married Eddie
gets left aboard the boat in charge of the
baby-doll bride of a gloomy young man who
looks like a sad misgiving and sings like the
voice of the tempest. For the rest there
are glimpses of novelty in this comedy-
vaudeville _ show, especially when the band
isn’t playing. The music is of the gay,
perennial sort, here to-day and gone to-mor-
row —and back again next week. A pretty
melody that opens the second act in semi-
darkness sounds the most familiar of them
all. Some of it might be advantageously left
oiit, and a lot of the dialogue would bear
pruning—the curtain stayed up until 11.25
on the first night. A couple of characters
might be wholly removed without making the
least difference to the survivors. There’s a
small gray man whose only visible purpose in
life is to escape with the wrong hat. And an
intermittent Frenchman, who travels on a
spurious foreign accent, and does nothing
that would make the most immodest woman
laugh.
* * * *
Perhaps the dialogue is up to the mark
of, say, “’Long, Letty”; but “Eddie’s” jokes
are few and artless. Two characters are
named Kettle and two others are Darling,
just to provide play for the author’s wit.
By the names of Herring and Bacon they
would have better served the same end. Hav-


&
rOORD So son
V LOMDON, ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
m
DT
Swift & Company !Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney .
aniel (ports
fsd
s*
Enn3H3
Popular for over half a century
AUSTRALIAN UNDERWEAR.
Good Weave, Good Shape, Good Finish.
In every way a great improvement on previous Australian produc-
tions, an article that we can confidently recommend as an excellent
alternative to the now-expensive British weaves. We advise early
ordering of all Winter requirements.
NATURAL MERINO UNDERSHIRTS—-sleeves.
34 36 38 40 42 44
—9- 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/-
UNDERPANTS TO MATCH.
9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6 12/-
Long-sleeve shirts 6d. extra. We pay postage.
Please state chest and waist measurements.
Peapes O. Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
% •
;ng thus relieved his mind, in the interests
of truth and the cause of Art, the writer
hastens to admit that Taits’ new show seemed
to meet the requirements of a crowded con-
gregation on Saturday night. Lupino has
the boyish appearance for the name part
and he plays well enough in a minor key
until he finally brings down the house with
his fall-about dancing. Higginson sings his
"THE BUNYIP,” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
One of the Chinese
items.
Princess Wattle
Blossom.
way happily through the job of the man
who frivols with chorus girls while wooing
the heroine, and Miss Lilian Tucker is quite
nice enough to eat. Also the diminutive
Fayette Perry fits her wifey-doll part in all
respects, and John Beck, as the sole apparent
staff of the country hotel where the wrong
couple retire to separate bedrooms, pro-
vides most of the genuine comedy in the
second act. The chorus, 20 strong, is all
right, and the orchestra should be fully
equal to its responsibilities by the time these
remarks appear.
‘‘The Marriage of Kitty” continues as
before at Melbourne Royal. Or, rather, not
quite as on the first night. The performance
has been broadened a little, on the assump-
tion, apparently, that the approval of an
Australian audience is expressed by the loud-
ness of a few laughs. Graham Browne is
rubbing a little farcical color into the natu-
ral complex |?f his comedy, and both he
and Marie Tempest talk straight at the
audience when they are supposed to be com-
muning with themselves. But their one little
lapse into serious sentimental it y remains a
thing of beauty and a triumph of art, and
is worth going a mile to see.
After all the delay of Ada Reeve’s
re-appearance at Melbourne Tivoli, it is
satisfactory to find the lady more than ever
worth waiting for. It was rumored that a
broken ankle would prevent her from stand-
ing up to her work like the Ada of old, but
she just comes along with an interesting
limp and an engaging smile and holds the
floor for 45 minutes, standing most of the
time. Finally she refers to her foot as
something that is rapidly getting back to
form; but by this time the audience would
love her none the less if she were to plead
guilty to a pair of wooden legs. Ada Reeve’s
command of the situation is more marked
than ever. She starts quietly. Then, with
a refinement of Lauder-like art, she works
the house up to a chorus pitch of enthusiasm
in a way that is delightfully droll. She has
some smart new ditties that are her very
own and she sings one or two familiar rag-
time ballads as nobody else has sung them.
Some of her success is owing to her voice,
of course. The rest is due to Ada Reeve.
There is talent in the co. apart from the
star, and. the cleverest of her supporters
is Louis Nikola. This unassuming stranger
excites the maximum of astonishment with
a minimum of patter, and is furthermore a
marvel in shadowing silhouette finger-por-
traits on a screen. Little Lucie Linda is a
notable juvenile dancer; Arthur Jenner and
two ladies do a droll satirical domestic
drama; the young conductor of the orchestra
sings comic songs from his musical concen-
tration camp; Talleur Andrews uplifts his
popular baritone, and there are others.
sk * * »
At Melbourne Majesty’s the feast of
drapery in “Canary Cottage” will be
repeated until further notice.
Overcrowding at the pay-box is one of the
few annoyances which the Fullers are.endur-
ing at Melbourne Princess's. The “Bunyip”
panto, has become a popular pastime, and
mobs of infants are dragging their parents
to view the miracle whereby Fairy Ladd
is turned into something like an attack of
delirium tremens. This is the duty wot '
of the Chief Gnome, who for some unsound
reason is allotted the little jobs of transfor-
mation in the entertainment. The r ollers
may yet regret this enlargement of the
powers of Evil. One of these nights he
may change the Dame into a cream-putt,
subtly relying on the principal boy’s affec-
tion ‘for that form of pastry to provide a
gruesome finish to a dreadful ti’agedy.
Melbourne Majestic let lose its vampire-
de-luxe, Louise Glaum, in a Triangle war-
drama, “Somewhere in France,” on Satur-
day. Louise is a German spy and figures
in the purple history of various wawiors.
Constance Talmadge is. a less ornate ex-
pounder of movie sensationalism in the Tri-
angle-Fine Arts film. “The Microscope
Mystery.” The magnifying-glass plays an
important part in the yarn, rendering first
aid to Constance and other perplexed char-
acers in the solution of a plot of frankly
criminal design.
Saturday’s screenings at Hoyt’s, Mel-
bourne, included “Her Surrender,” another
extended tale of wickedness from the Ivan
studio. The film relates a rather common-
place story of business rivalry, with the cus-
tomary feminine allurements; but the sub-
ject is rescued from tediousness by the
bright acting of the leading ghost, Anna
Q. Nilsson. The other feature is an uncon-
vincing Metro tragedy called “One of
Many.” Frances Nelson is the centre of
gravity in this serious offering, and her soul-
storms in times of temptation are declared
by the advt. to provide “a powerful moral
lesson.”
Italian opera continues on its strenuous
quick-change career at Adelaide Royal, with
success that varies from night to night. The
men are clearly stronger all round than the
ladies, and the orchestra than the chorus.
“Faust” has its ending altered to leave the
hero unharmed and Mephisto writhing on the
floor in an un-devilish pose. Possibly “La
BohSme” is the high water-mark so far, and
“THE BUNYIP,”
AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
Queenie Paul as
Arthur.
“Faust” the most popular. “Peg,” much
regretted, has closed her long season at the
King’s; but the Tivoli has reopened' with
Anderson’s old melo. co. in “Robbery Under
Arms.” “Variety” at the Majestic is chiefly
song or dance. On the film, West’s finds
Billie Burke in a “serial” sufficient attrac-
tion, ' but Wondergraph is asking in a
pointed manner “Is Marriage Necessary?”
How some of these Yankee film-producers do
love to hint at an impropriety which they
wouldn’t have the pluck to screen!
Died last week, T. W. Carr, the mildest-
mannered man who ever took ten thousand
lives. lie was one of the oldest outdoor
officers of the A.M.F. Society; for many
years he was its Western (N.S.W.) repre-
sentative, and for many more years one of
its city agents—a man saturated with the
traditions of the office, and striving always
to lift the important business of insurance
canvassing to a higher plane.
The S. Aus. Public Service now knows
who are to constitute the Classification
Board. Colonel Price-Weir, of the 10th, gets
the chairmanship; Dumas, of the Lands
Titles Office, was chosen by the Public Ser-
vice Association; and the Vaughan Ministry,
which had the right to choose a third and
“professional” member, has gratified the
P.S.A. by naming Welfare, of the Engineer-
in-Chief’s office, who was 2nd on the poll
that selected Dumas.
C. Churchill Tucker, president of the
N. S. Wales Fruitgrowers’ Association, who
has died at Bathurst after a short illness,
was born at Neutral Bay 60 years ago. The
Tuckers established themselves in wines and
spirits in George-street, Sydney, as far back
as 1833, and are now the oldest firm in that
line in Australia. Carabella House, on the
waterside at Neutral Bay, now the Yacht
Club House, is the old home of the family.
A Sydney nun has just died among the
.Taps, whither she went nine years ago.
Mother Brigid Hayden was an Irishwoman,
and spent the first years of her life at Dun-
drum, near Dublin. Later she was in Syd-
ney for many years, and went hence to
Tokio, to found a “house” there —of the
Sacred Heart Order.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Bily Malyon sued in Sydney District
Court lately to recover £l7 165., salary due
for part of the frosty season at the Little
Theatre, in March, 1916. The defendants
were “Sister” Cooper-Mathieson, the “Cen-
tre of Truth” lady, who put on “The
Victory” as a religious aid, and Henry
Thippard, contractor. “Sister” told how she
had given manager Frederick Ward all the
money she had in the new church’s glory-
box, and Phippard, the financial adherent,
related that he was interested in Sister’s
religious movement, and any interest he took
in the Little Theatre began and ended with
that. Between them all, the Judge couldn’t
find £l7 16s. for Eily, and that sound artist
had to be non-suited. But you could almost
see his Honor writhing as he said “Some-
body ought to pay.”
“Stargazer”: I dispute the right of Miss
Marie Tempest to two lots of praise meas-
ured out to her. She is said to show excep-
tionally good dressing in “The Marriage of
Kitty.” She doesn’t. Her dressing is pretty
good and quite expensive; but in almost
every instance is marred by bizarre effects.
The other too appreciative demonstration is
evoked by Miss Tempest’s singing of “Obsti-
nation.” Miss Tempest does not sing the
little French song very well. She hardly
sings it ordinarily well. There are plenty
of young women in Melbourne who sing it
hotter, whose voices are fresher and sweeter,
whose style is daintier. So there!
“Harrison O.” : Marie Tempest, artistic in
most things, overworks her laugh—a hard,
staccato, but distinctly • attractive little
laugh, which is the cause of merriment in
others. In “The Marriage of Kitty” she
shows it off .just as a musical-comedy orna-
ment with a mouthful of teeth exhibits her
smile. Another clever actress who had the
same fault to a greater degree was Sara
Allgood. Peg o’ My Heart’s laugh used to
travel up the scale so frequently in the
course of a performance that it must have
been tired out (like the audience) at the
end of the evening. Grace Palotta was also
a bad offender. Her pleasant chuckle at
one time developed into a chronic ailment.
Repeated too frequently, the most musical
of feminine laughs can produce the effect
of a fortnight’s diet of molasses. She laughs
best who laughs least.
“Fax”: “Johanna” makes the discovery of
a resemblance between Marie Tempest and
two such widely contrasted identities as Mrs.
Brough and Madame Melba. I can’t see it
myself. What struck me about this Marie was
her occasional suggestion of two previous
Maries. When she assumes her oldest man-
ner she is a reminder of Marie Illingworth,
the stout lady in a tight skirt who was
imported to play chief comedy part in “The
Whip,” and gave a fairly close imitation of
Fanny Brough. But when the Tempest is
at her wildest she sets one thinking of Marie
Lloyd. The tilt of her hat has a touch of
the music-hall lady, and there are other
points of resemblance. Between these two
Maries, however, there is the distinction of
one educated in France and the other edu-
cated in—well, Marie Lloyd certainly wasn’t
educated in France.
A grim outrage on a deceased Bard is
contemplated in Adelaide—a performance of
“As You Like It" entirely by women, all of
great social calibre, nearly all young and
guaranteed free from any previous experi-
ence of the stage. Unless the Supreme Court
does something about it in the meantime, the
assault will take place on May 4.
“Circle” : A London critic sums up W. S.
Percy, now playing in “High Jinks,” as “a
skilful comedian who gets his laughs with
a minimum of effort.” Perhaps the little
man has improved his methods since he
left here. He always struck me as work-
ing harder for his grins than any other
man in the business. He got them,
lots of them; but he toiled for them and
often waited for them —waited until a house
that hated to be unfriendly roused itself
from the torpor bred of vapid libretto and
giggled from a sheer sense of duty. I often
felt as if I were one of a dutiful party in
a suburban drawing-room.
“E.T.”: Australian playgoers with good
memories will recall the elongated, cadaver-
ous Fred Storey, whose elastic legs twirled
through the burlesques' of the first London
Gaiety Co. Though most of the other prin-
cipals, including Fred Leslie, Nellie FaiTen
and Charles Danby, are dead, Storey is still
very much alive and is, at the age of 57,
now in khaki —a sergeant in the Devonshires;
When he joined up he knocked a trifle of 20
years off his age and the authorities, remem-
bering their old Gaiety nights, winked the
other eye, reckoning that if anyone is
capable of leading the Huns a dance he is.
“Peg-Leg”: My impression, after seeing
Enid Bennett in films, is that pictures will
carry her much farther than the stage. Her
voice was no great shakes over the foot-
lights ; aid that defect doesn’t matter in the
movies. On the other hand, her clear skin
is a larger asset in the movies than on the
stage—it enables her to stand the test of a
“close-up” photograph perfectly, whereas
most of the ’Murkan picture-ladies have to
keep the camera off with a clothes-prop.
“Musketoon”: How they kill the long
evenings at Condobolin (N.S.W.) :
Mr. Leo Johnston, of Proelass, will give an
address in the ltoyal Hall on Saturday evening, April
28, at 8 o’clock, in defence of “The Elephant in
your Back Yard.” The public are cordially invited.
“0.K.”: A Poverty Pointer was asking
the other week, “What is more persistent
than the mannerisms of an actor?” The
answer is easy. Nothing. Every other per-
son has just as persistent mannerisms, but
not more persistent. Some people have
mannerisms more strongly marked than
others, because they possess more individu-
ality, but all people carry their own manner-
isms through life. Gaston Mervale, the case
in point, happens to have a more aggressive
individuality than, say, dear old friend
Titheradge; but his mannerisms, though
more marked than Tith’s, are not more per-
sistent. That is comparing one mummer
with another, you will say. Well, isn’t Billy
Hughes on the platform as mannered in his
speech and gesture as Mervale? Why, cer-
tainly. If anyone objects that I am still
talking of mummers, I would ask him to
note the persistent mannerisms of any three
plain, inoffensive suburban citizens in the
matter of lighting their pipes.
“Ancient Prompter” : Sprightly little Ada
Reeve will stick to her old-time warbling
for a start in her new Australian tour,
though lately she has been testing her powers
as a “straight” actress. Recently in India
she staged the English comedies “Hobson’s
Choice,” “Eliza Comes to Stay,” and “The
Little Damosel,” and scored in the leads,
her • performance of the Lancashire heroine
in the first-named being particularly good.
Lots of old friends of the little lady want a
look at the much-talked-of piece while she’s
here.
“Playbird” : I came across an interesting
old playbill in Ballarat last week. It was
dated 1858 and announced that the world-
famous actress Lola Montez would appear
at the Victoria Theatre —long ago vanished
and its site forgotten. The bill of fare
was a comedy and two farces. The per-
formance started at 7.30 and finished as
near as possible to 11 o’clock. Only two
prices of admission —boxes, 10s.; stalls, ss.
At the bottom in big black letters was the
notice, “No smoking allowed.” I spoke to
one of the old identities about the show.
“ ’Gad,” said he, “there was lashins of likker
served by waiters wearin’ felt slippers. And
Lola— and the Spider Dance.” Ilis juicy
old lips sucked in the air with much wicked
joy.
(Continued on page Slf.)
Passed out at Trial Bay (N.S.W.), Mag-
nus Thompson, after 40 years on the Macleay
and thereabouts. Thompson was born in
the Orkneys 79 years ago, and went to sea
at 10. He came to Australia in 1857 as
A. 8., got his master’s ticket in 3SG4, and
was skipper of various craft in the coastal
and island trades, loading the first cargo of
wheat shipped from Port Pirie
was in 1873. Not long afterwards he
settled down as a storekeeper on theMaeleay.
MY FAVORITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of all the speakers who just now
Are rending Heaven with their roars,
There’s one —and only one, I vow—•
Who gets to grips and always scores.*
To neither Party is he tied.
Tudor he will as soon abuse
As Cook; though mostly ’tis his pride
And joy to guy the pals of Hughes.
He’s ever brief (bless him for that!),
But pertinent his shortest speech;
He could our wordy Autocrat
In this respect a lesson teach.
He’s funny oft. When yards of tripe
A candidate inflicts, his chaff
Comes as a boon. The time is ripe.
What a relief it is to laugh!
' A 3-
He heckles, and he interjects,
Sometimes ’mid cries of “Throw him out!”
Rarely the chair’s rule he respects ;
“Lib.,’’ “Lab.” or “Ind.,” he’ll put to rout.
A lie, a slip, will raise his ire;
He's quick the opening to seize.
Two words of his the crowd will fire
As did of old Demosthenes!
He’s modest. Though he’s never billed
As an electioneering star,
Among debaters the most skilled,
No one is half so popu-lar.
My orator! Great is his fame!
Though in his speeches I rejoice,
Alas! I do not know his name—
He’s what reporters call “A Voice”!
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


A FRIEND IS A SECOND SELF.
Try J OHN Stance
SAVON MARQUISE.
Price, 1/3 per cake, or 3/6 per Box of Three Cakes.
A PURE, BLAND AND BENEFICENT SOAP
Instantly softens the hardest water, and therefore
the user begins the second stage of the toilet —that
is the using of our
Lakshmi Skin Cream or Lotion and Poudre Marquise
ending with a skin of satin-like smoothness.
Ask for our other Toilet Preparations, viz.: Dental
Cream, New Face Cream, Hair Foods, Shaving
Sticks, etc., etc., all obtainable from Civil Service,
W. H. Soul, David Jones, Farmers, Horderns, W. T.
Waters, Lassetters, McCathies, McDowell & Hughes, &c.
Awarded Six Gold Medals—London, Paris and Rome.
ipq>
lav*
t 3 S'- ;
iL»f
Co f is
»■
mm
Send. 2d. stamp for sample of Soap or Powder to »TKAJ\UiS WIMTJEK (London,
Paris and Rome). Sydney Offices: 32 Depot, 26 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
A SONG OF APRIL GLADNESS.
TFor The Bulletin.]
Daffodils were blowing,
April fluttered by ;
Green the land and glowing
'Neath her dimpled sky.
Tears that mocked her laughter,
Smiles that scorned her tears —-
Joy came running after,
Bird-song in Iris ears.
Bless her and beshrew her,
Maid of weal and woe,
April as 1 knew her
Forty years ago.
Dipped the April willow
Low to touch the stream ;
To an April pillow
Came an April dream.
Someone brought me kisses—
They were good to taste—
Pinafores held blisses
Of a yielding waist.
April stooped to tell a
Story fair and fine—
Two ’neatli one umbrella
Facing shower and shine!
Where’s the maid who kissed met
Where’s the mouth we knew?
Both have somehow missed me—
Seas are wide and blue.
Spring has gone a-courting
Up the merry lane
Where the birds are sporting
In and out the rain ;
Yet here’s April grieving
April tears of gold,
Bright and unbelieving
That a heart grows old.
Golden tears and laughter,
Though the summer’s flown,
Joy comes running after
Panting for his own.
Someone brings me kisses.
How should I be old
Till my Autumn misses
Tales the springtime told ?
Where’s the melancholy
Autumn hearts should fear?
Laugh till April folly
Dimples all the year!
N.s.w. PAT O’MAORI.
MERELY CIRCUMSTANTIAL.
THE FIERCELY ANGRY ONE : “Did you say I
picked up yer money?”
THE CAĹMLY SARCASTIC ONE: “No, I only
said if yer 'adn’t ’elped me look fer it I
might ’ave found it.”
“M.C.H.W.”: The specialised fighting in
France lacks the interest and humor we got
out of Gallipoli with our makeshifts. Once
at the end of a hard day some trench-weary
engineers came along with a bomb which
they joyfully explained would shake Con-,
stantinople when, it went off. It was hurled
with many loving expressions into Abdul’s
trench and everyone waited gleefully for the
burst. When about a minute had sped
some vulgar humor was indulged in by the
spectators at the expense of the crestfallen
inventors. In the midst of a sarcastic debate
our own pill was seen to be returning from
the Turkish trenches, and we had just time
to scatter before the whole Peninsula
jumped under our feet. “That’s a h—l of
a good bomb!” growled a bony corporal.
“How long have yous blokes been makin’
’em for th’ Turks?”
* * * *
“Billy W.” : I’ve just had a letter from a
Billjim who was buried in a collapsed dug-
out for several hours. "But,” he adds, "I
had the satisfaction of knowing I’d sent five
Germans to Hell.” The regimental censor
drew a thin line through the last word and
wrote: "The enemy’s whereabouts must not
be disclosed.”
KNEW WHERE HE'D FEEL IT MOST.
HE : “If I enlist will you consent to be
mine?”
SHE: “No; but I’ll promise to knit you some
socks.”
“X.P.D.”: When did the Australian mili-
tary custom of wearing feather-plumes in
the hat originate? When the Queensland
Mounted Infantry Squadron that was sent
out West at the time of the big shearing
strike 25 years ago returned, some of the
men sported emu plumes; but the first to
appear on parade in Brisbane wearing them
was carpeted. However, the C.O. had
another inspection and said, “H’m —looks
rather well,” or words to that effect, and the
plumes were multiplied till there was one
in every Q.M.I. hat. On the Common-
wealth taking over the States’ several
pocket-armies, the Q.M.I. was merged in the
Australian Light Horse, but the Bananaland
units still put the letters (in brackets) after
their official designation, and are prepared
to fight anyone who tries to snatch their
plumes away. lam aware that the N. S.
Wales Lancers —and. possibly, other mounted
units as well —wore feathers a good while
back, but I fancy the Bananalanders were
the first to adopt this kind of head-decora-
tion.
*****
“Trallwm” : Those quaint Solons, honorary
magistrates, do occasionally hit the tack
upon the head with the hammer-clout of
'horse-sense. The other day the parties in
a vehicle collision took their
troubles, a brace of lawyers, a
maze of cross-summonses, a
car-load of “exhibits” and a
swarm of witnesses to a Mel-
bourne suburban court in a
negligent-driving cas e—t li e
usual preliminary to the more
lucrative “damages” suit later
on. Solon listened placidly as
each party handed out its well-
found story of “wi’ong side” and
“no light,” and accused the
other of “not knowing enough
to drive a tip-dray across a 40-
acre paddock.” Then the Bench
spoke. “It is plain from the
sworn evidence,” it said with-
out a smile, “that both parties
were negligent. Fined £1 each!” Lawyers
and litigants are still looking at one another
and the C.P.S. in a sort of dazed state.
“G.C.” : Another of Billjim’s little jokes.
I’ve just received a letter from an Eng-
lish miss asking me to send her a boomerang.
It appears that I am managing a boomerang
farm at Collingwood for a friend now in
France (he gave her the address). Accord-
ing to the information given Miss Mayfair
by my hard-dialed friend, boomerangs ripen
and are ready to pick about the end of
March. The supplying of the boomerang
would be easy, but she wants a photo of the
farm, too!
A Sydney boy pulls up the cuff of his
khaki tunic and writes: —
Cairo is cosmopolitan, but compared with Salonika
it is as exclusive as an Orangeman’s lodge. I think
every natfon of the earth is represented there and
a few that have been left over from prehistoric times.
It is nominally a Greek town, but the natives are
a cross between the Turk, Bulgar and the Arab,
who speak a jargon known as Mediterranean Greek.
Any old language is sure of a hearing, though.
The peasants are the original advocates of daylight
saving. They don’t even take off their clothes. They
can’t, as the rags are mostly tied on in a manner sug-
gestive of a Jack Tar’s best effort to secure Houdini,
the handcuff king. They wear a sort of coarse
snuff-colored homespun ending in a cowl like a
monk’s, which almost covers up their faces. That
is the redeeming feature about the costume. The
seats of their breeches begin where the ordinary man
wears his sock-suspenders. AVhere they end is not
yet known to science—or the Allies. Their feet are
wrapped up in sheepskin and rags securely roped
and are of dimensions that would put a Sydney John
Hop in the Cinderella class. About the most in-
congruous sight I ever saw was a bunch of these
products chasing an electric tramear. It reminded
me of the trained seals at the Tivoli. And—the
race may die out, but take it from me, the smell
will endure.
The women, on the other hand, are a cleanly-look-
ing lot — cleanly, and that lets them out. You have
seen the Greek national costume in German oleo-
graphs. Well, it’s just like that, only it requires
about 16 paintings to do justice to the color scheme.
When I look at the men I feel sorry for the women.
When I look at the women I cease to wonder why
the men never bother to take their clothes off.
But there are several kinds of peasantry. There
are the Highlanders, or Albanians, for instance, who
wear snow-white tights and the shortest of short
ballet skirts; net skull caps with a big tassel, white
shoes turned up at the toes and decorated with a
big pompom. The rest of them is mostly a great
assortment of knives, pistols and such like cutlery
for keeping the wolf from the door. Then there is
a kind of police force—smart-looking bucks in black
top boots and black riding breeches, zouave jackets
and pill-box hats. The one thing that spoils their
appearance is, once more, the seat of their breeches.
It hangs down to the backs of their knees and
is used as a receptacle for parcels. This spoils their
martial appearance. No man can look a hero with
his lunch and a bottle of beer in the seat of his
breeks.
* * • •
It happened at Jervis Bay, where the
Naval Collegians learn their lessons. A gold-
braided chief and the foreman-in-charge were
inspecting a bit of road-mending, when with
a curt “ ’Day” a rooky-looking man asked
abruptly, “How is it for a bit of this?” The
ganger glanced at the new-comer’s hands and
nodded, and with a “Righto !” the Australian
bogged in. “Now, what made you engage
that man?” asked the Admiral, as they
walked on. “Well,” replied the boss, “I
could see by his hands he was a worker, and
I liked his style. No salutes! No ‘sir’!”
The Admiral proceeded in amazed silence
wearing a torpedoed expression.
GETTING A MOVE ON.
SHE: “Your new yacht, is site built for speed or pleasure ?”
HE: “She is like some of you ladies —manages to combine both.”
“8.D.”: “Dinner in the kitchen” was the
main item in the entertainment given at a
swell house to a party of Billjims on fur-
lough in London. They had a lively time,
with more fun than they would have found
up above. And then after dinner came a
message that “the men” were to be sent up.
But “the men” weren’t having any. The
sergeant in charge collected a bob from each,
put it in an envelope with a note saying that
it was for the meal and the entertainment,
and the whole lot “sloped.”
The question of school-teaching on sex
matters crops up in all sorts of ways. “Kids
don’t know how well off they are,” said a
Vic. Backblocker. “In my time we nippers
in the bush weren’t learnt nothing, but now
they have free, sexual and compulsory edu-
cation.”
“N.M.”: Only 66 left of their original
800, a party of French brothers-in-arms
passed through Sydney last week on their
way back for a lungful of the sunshine and
warmth of their own Noumea, after a long
stretch of misery in the trenches of their
Motherland. Every unit of this little band
THE FINAL STRAW.
The Minister for Munitions has advised that,
owing to the great demand for urgent war
materials, the manufacture of haberdashery goods
such as hooks and eyes, buttons, stay busks, collar
studs, thimbles, hatpins, etc., is greatly restricted.
Present stocks must be exhausted before further
supplies can be permitted to be exported from
Great Britain.
HE : “My dear, I’ve decided to enlist.”
SHE: “Why, what’s the trouble now?”
HE : “ I’ve lost the last collar-stud.”
a hero, and wearing at least one decoration
for some outstanding act of bravery, looking
in his attractive blue uniform a worthy son
of the nation that flung its little red cap
not over but on to the windmill, so that all
the winds might blow its message to the
four corners of the earth! Sydney had its
representatives in this little group of brave
men —among them Private Ilagen, once a
North Sydney Grammar School boy. Most
of them have been fighting for «over two
years; most have been wounded ; nearly all
have been sick. But there is so much still
to do. They will spend 24 days in their
warm island home; then back once more to
meet the eyes of Death. Vive la France!
“Tyke”: Billjim wou’t be paying eleven-
pence a word for his wireless messages much
longer. The wireless telephone has arrived.
Extensive developments in radiotelephony
have taken place during the past year in
the U.S.A.. and the thing is now such a
success that some ships are already fitted.
It was a surprised operator at an Austra-
lian wireless station who heard a voice
calling him the other week from a ship in
the Pacific between America and these shores.
Arlington radio station (U.S.A.), speaking
into his ’phone, was heard at San Francisco.
Hawaii, and Eiffel Tower (Paris). The
wireless telephone is superior to the wire
telephone. The articulation is much clearer
and there is freedom from distortion. Speech
transmitted from U.S.A. to France was re-
ceived despite heavy interference from high-
power stations at Poldhu and Norddeich ami
also through strong atmospheric disturbances.


fsd
a pair of real
Gabardine Riding'
Trousers for 25/-
TO ORDER
THERE is no cloth better suited than REAL
Gabardine for Riding Pants.
The wear is there without undue weight,
whilst the texture is fine, allowing the garments
to make up and to look well.
This is an exceptional offer to secure the
real Gabardine at a price considerably lower
than it can ever be offered at again
251
SHADES : GREEN, GREY. FAWN & CREAM.
SEND FOR FREE PATTERNS TO-DAY.
PIKE BROTHERS L
IMITED,
Brisbane.
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You’re child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated ;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act naturally
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember,
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig”—for children's ills; give a tea-
spoonful, and in a few hours all the waste
matter, sour bile and fermenting food clogged
in the bowels pass out of the system, and
you have a healthy and playful child again.
All children love this harmless, delicious
fruit laxative, and it never fails to effect a
good “inside cleansing.” Directions for
babies, children of all ages and grown-ups
are^ plainly on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a _ bottle of “Califig”—California Syrup of
Figs—then look and see that it is made by
the California Fig Syrup Company. Refuse
substitutes. All chemists sell “Califig”
California Syrup of Figs—in bottles of two
sizes, Is. lJd. and Is. 9d. [4
KINGS.AND QUEENS.
[For Thb Bulletin.]
What is this the dancers sing,
Youths and damsels on the green?
"Every lad is someone’s king,
Every lass is someone’s queen 1 ”
Tlius the puzzle-chain goes on,
Woven by some fairy—
Maud is all in 10-ve with John;
John’s in love with Mary;
Mary, merry-lipped and tall,
Thinks his love a bother,
Doesn't care for him at all,
Since she loves another.
Oh. that I could set aright
All the tangle for your sake,
Eyes that plead with passion light,
Eyes that will no answer make,
Since ’tis pleading, too, you are,
Others eyes beseeching !
Love is like a shining star
Set beyond your reaching.
Though your hearts with hope and trust
Soar to regions airy,
Come to earth at last you must —
John and Maud and Mary.
Dancing on the sunlit green,
What is this the lovers sing?
“Every lass is someone’s queen,
Every lad is someone’s king!”
So the puzzle-chain goes on,
Woven by some fairy;
Maud has made a king of John,
John a queen of Mary;
Eyes of brown and eyes of blue,
Lips that pout and quiver,
Kings and queens are not for you,
Though you plead for ever.
Dance your dances, play your parts,
Youths and damsels, fairy-led,
Knowing not within your hearts
Whom ye crown ye may not wed!
When tlie golden days have gone—
Summer-song and scenting—■
Someone else shall wed with John,
Maud, alas, lamenting;
All, alike, shall sure descend
From their castles airy,
Take' what’s going in the end—
Maud and John and Mar}'!
N.B.W. RCDERIC QUINN.
* * * -X-
-“Senoj” visits the old place:—
Ballarat traders adapted a cute Yankee dodge
when they had a “Home Coming” during Easter
week. To every former resident that could be traced
circulars were sent urging the recipient to “come
home for Easter—your old home is waiting to wel-
come you. Come and see your old school, your old
playgrounds, your old friends.” The appeal caught
on, and thousands of visitors turned up, including
me. Dear old Ballarat! The pubs and boarding-
houses welcomed us by doubling their tariffs. No,
they didn’t all double them. Some trebled them.
The streets were thronged with folk all perjuring
themselves about what they did in the old days.
Every grey-wliiskered .man had been in the Eureka
affair, every old baldheaded liar had been a pal of
Peter Lalor, and the number of venerable ladies
who had nursed the wounded diggers satisfied me
TAKING TIME BY THE FORELOCK.
THE CHORUS ANGRL: "Why didn't they hiss
and make up?"
THE WALKING-ON LADY : “Oh. they'd made-
up before they quarrelled."
that the generally-accepted figures concerning the
numbers engaged in the affair are remarkably below
the actual facts.
What should have been a solemn and impressive
ceremony, the Eureka pageant, was made a most
comical burlesque owing to faulty management. The
scene was the exact spot of the Riot and there was
a well-trained, correctly-dressed, fully-equipped,
thoroughly-rehearsed # company of- actors. Every-
thing seemed favorable for a very fine affair; but
when something like 25,000 people poured into the
ground the committee lost its block and there was
chaos. Troopers supposed to be representing the
“Joes” of ’s4—men with comical side-whiskers—
instead of chasing red-shirted diggers chased the
crowd, and Peter La lor had to pause in the middle
of his speech to remove a female’s umbrella from
the middle of his back. Three redcoats were called
away from the stern duty of charging the stockade
to rescue a kid who had fallen down one of the
sham shafts, and the great charge itself was led
by 93 small boys, who took great delight in heaving
rocks at their natural enemy.
KNEW HIS LIMIT.
SHE: “I haven't seen your wife out with you
in your car.”
HE: “No! It takes me all my time to
manage one of yon.”
“A.E.L.” sees a mate off: —
Many of the boys drop into the cook-house for a
cup of tea and a bit of anything that’s going. Often
the conversation drifts to Fatalism. They sum it
tip this way: “If I’m to be killed, I’ll be killed, in
the front line or miles behind. If I’m not to be
killed, then I won’t be, that’s all.”
I had often noticed “Spike” in the cook-house,
with his hands spread fanwise before the blaze, his
head cocked sideways, watching anti-aircraft guns’
attempts to bring down a Hun machine.
I was making a slice of toast one day when
Spike’s voice came from the other side of a wall
of smarting smoke: “I reckon there ain’t a German
bomb, bullet or shell manufactured that’ll kill me.”
Spike held the floor then. Half a dozen chaps
in the vicinity made an attentive audience. This
evidently was not lost on Spike, for he continued:
“I’ve been in this game from the jump. I’ve had
’em skittled all roun’ me till I lorst every pal I ’ad.
I started in the infantry, pulled on the job of a
machine-gunner, now I’m a stretcher-bearer. And I’ll
have a go at the Army Service before I’m through.”
Spike’s battalion, having been 10 days in the
line, was now enjoying another brief rest from the
strain and tempest of the trenches.
Last night the hum of a Taube unsettled the calm
hanging over a game of nap in our tent. The night
outside was brilliant. The ground was covered with
snow, and a full moon poured a wonderful light over
it.
The hum gradually grew into a roar; then the
staccato rattle of a machine-gun told us that Fritz
was “hosing” the road that skirts the top of our
camp.
“Lights out everywhere!” came the distant shout
of the orderly-sergeant.
We “doused” and tumbled over one another to
see what was to be seen.
Our eyes were strained in the direction of the
clatter, but we could see nothing. The battery on the
hill opposite opened on the raider with four rounds,
and followed him with spiteful little stabs of flame
in the direction of .
“He’s away,” we said, and were just turning into
the tent again, when a flash and a rumble told us
he had dropped a bomb.
And among the six infantry boys he killed with
that blind stab in the dark, with not a mark upon
him, was—Spike.
* * * *
“Onlooker”: As soon as war broke out
the great majority of the men in the Com-
monwealth permanent forces made an effort
to get to the Front to do the job they had
been trained for. One by one they were
nearly all permitted to go, and a few of the
non-coms., having naturally far more know-
ledge of the business than the average per-
son, and being found to possess the other
necessary qualifications, have won promotion
to commissioned rank on the field. Now
these men are beginning to return, unfit for
further active service, and there is talk of
reducing them to their original rank. If
there is no work for them in their new rank,
certainly the only thing to do is to employ
them in their old. But if there is work
for anyone to do in their new rank, then
nobody else in the world is so well entitled
to be given it to do. We must always have
a certain number of permanent men; and
we shall get a pretty poor lot if it should
prove to be the fact that the permanent man
who had won promotion on the field was
turned down after strenuous active service,
vacancies being filled instead from outside.
We sliall never attract any Robertsons to
our permanent ranks that way.
“Sejadee” : When is a man drunk? Well,
a pal of mine told me how he once found
out. His home was 20 miles from the
township, and on the
way there, with about
seven miles to go, his
car stopped and all
efforts on his part to
get it to move were
fruitless. There was
nothing for it but to
walk. He had just
started when he noticed
a quiet old horse near
by. Securing a piece
of rope from the car he
made a halter, caught
the horse, and bareback
started for home. He
had not done any riding
for a long time, and
consequently was very
sore on arrival. Going
straight to his room he
got hold of some stick-
ing-plaster, and, with
the aid of a mirror
placed on the floor, put
in about half an hour
of surgical work cover-
ing the raw places.
When he awoke next
morning he found that
he had put the plaster all over the jnirror.
* * * *
A S. Australian will-case recalls those
charities, common in England, where a 14th-
century field, bequeathed to nrovide loaves
for ever for two poor widows, has become
a flourishing suburb, so that the trus-
tees have been at their wits’ end to know
how to spend the income. The S. Aus. case
was only a small one. The “two poor
widows” here were each, the testator said, to
have 4s. a week paid towards their rent;
and there was nearly £2OOO to do it with —
four or five times more than was necessary.
The Supreme Court decided that the other
legatees had received all they were meant to
get, so the reasonable thing to do was to be
a bit more generous with the rent.
“Rio”: Britain lias too many war decora-
tions altogether. Besides the V.C. there are
the D. 5.0., D.G.YT., M.C., M.M., C.B. and
C.M.G., all given for distinction in the field.
Why one officer gets the D. 5.0., another the
C.M.G. and another the C.B. for practically
the same deeds nobody seems to know: while
the snobbishness of giving an officer a cross
and a man a medal for exactly the same
display of gallantry is repellent to healthy
Australians. Regarding this multiplicity of
decorations, it used to cheer the British
press to print photos of obscure generals,
who had done all their fighting in a couple of
small frontier campaigns plus the Boer War,
wearing a hatful of orders, stars and medals
earned largely in the heat of coronations,
jubilees and durbars. Yet we were told that
show or display was “un-English.” How
meretricious the claim was might be judged
from the fact that foreign officers of similar
service and equal distinction would have
three or four decorations at most.
From The Bulletin’s old friend “Job-
ber,” still at the Front: —
“Hr" is wrong (B. 7/12/’l6) when he says “cruci-
fixion” is unknown to Australian Army Regulations.
One day on the Peninsula 1 saw two of our bloques
tied to the wheels of a gun, two other Bill.jims stand-
ing handy with fixed bayonets. They call it P'ield Pun-
ishment No. 1, and though I’m not defending the
method, it takes something warm to bring some .of
our chaps up to their bearings.
But the crude methods of the army in Well-
ington’s time are not likely to have any
better results now than they had then.
And they are much less likely to be tolerated
in a citizen force than they were in an army
recruited mostly from deadbeats. Wherefore
Field Punishment No. I—which1 —which is simply
physical torture and nothing less—is marked
down among the things that are to disappear
at the first or second general election after
the war. If it is retained at all, it wilPbe
as a punishment for dishonest or otherwise
disgraceful officers. Then what a howl
there will be about “class punishments”!
The fact that it is a class punishment now,
and has been for a hundred years, is conveni-
ently overlooked.
ALAS!
[For Tim Bri.i, istin.l
• I took the sunset from the sky
And tied it in my handkerchief;
. I filled my hat with twinkling stars,
• With golden Venus, ruby Mars,
And strings of planets glancing bright.
All this was for one girl’s delight;
But scornfully she turned them down.
Now all my days are dark with grief,
And morn and even ashy grey,
For still she craves with pout and frown
The one d star I cannot reach.
Victoria. SYD. C.
AND THEN THE ROW STARTED.
MRS.: “What a sweet little thing!”
MR.: “ Lovely! And such a nice baby, too.”


“WINNING THE WAR.”
[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]


[DAVID LOW, BULLETIN O ffice, Melbourne.]
CLEARING FOR INACTION.


Pleasant and
Easy to Take.
Cinnak
Quick & Certain
in its Action.
NO WATER TUMBLER
OR SPOON IS NEEDED.
fsd
Cinnak is a delightfully refresh-
ing powder with strong anti-
septic properties, which at once
relieve colds, huskiness and nasal
catarrh. Cinnak cures and pro-
tects. It can he taken anywhere
at any time.
PER TUBE 1/6 ALL CHEMISTS.
I 53
f
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
V»Caring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
/
osso>
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUND ?
sdf
LEWIS&WrUTTy MAKERS
[If any unsigned pars, on tnis page require .a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. i’Rion, John Baku and E. OTerrau,,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY <SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRING
George Reid is getting very well known
in London as a Pleasant -Sunday After-
nooner. He delivers an eloquent lecture on
cookery whenever he can get a chairman
with a title. At least, one supposes that the
discourse is about cookerv. It is entitled
“The Things That Matter-Now and
Always.”
The Speck lost a first-class fowl fancier
when his Ex. Ellison Macartney moved to
W.A. When he wasn’t laying foundation-
stones or attending to Constitutional jobs,
his Ex. put in a lot of his time in the fowl-
yard instructing the White Leghorns in
their job. ~
“0.A.5.”: When does a miner cease to
bo of military age? Here, are three of the
big-hearted battlers now busy in France:—
“Bill” . miner, from Mount Morgan (Q.).
Age 64.
Itobert ——, miner, from Newcastle (N.S.W.). Age
68.
George ——, sergeant and miner, from near
Quirindi (N.S.W.) —I’ll swear he’s the oldest of the
three.
The boys are enjoying themselves driving
tunnels under the Huns.
WITH THE FRILLS ALL ON.
"Gripes, you must be’ got it pretty ’ot.!"
“ Oh, nothin’. But, blime, it do make
a bloomin’ picture-show of a bloke, don’t
it?"
<*ollo on, J. 11. Grainger, loading architect
and father of pianist and composer Percy,
lie began in the South Alts. Government
service, and. at the age of 20, designed .Mel-
bourne Princes’ Bridge, said to be the broad-
est in the world. Between ’SO and ’9O he
gained £2350 in competitive premiums for
prize designs for works in Australia and
Maoriland. Ilis monuments in Melbourne
city are the administrative block of the
Town Hall and the tall Elizabeth-street
Savings Bank.
The Surveyor-Generalship of South Aus.,
a post held in the , long past by
Light and Sturt in turn, is to be
a different thing in future. Up to
the tilin' of E: M. Smith, just retired,
the holder of it has been “in the office.” the
permanent head of the Lands Department.
Petliick. the new holder, is to keep on sur-
veying. and Britten Jones, the recent
Deputy, is to give all liis time to valuing for
the Government.
E. J. Field be-
comes secretary
to the • Lands
Minister and
a d m inistrative
head of the De-
partment, with
Messent as his
understudy ; and
the. veteran
Tom Duffield.
50 years in the
office, and lately
Secretary o f
Lan d s, takes
charge of a
new-made Local
Government
branch -- roads
and bridges and
such things
COLONEL
W. J. CLARK,
Military
Commandant
of Tasmania.
Gladesville (Sydney) Mental Hospital has
a cheery, active little man of 84 who came
in out of the living world in ’63. After 54
years “inside” he still has callers —two older
brothers who come to ask how “the boy” is
getting on.
One of the small happenings of a humid
Sydney week was the official visit of J. J-
Cohen, newly-elected Speaker of N. S. Wales
Assembly, to Gaud Mayor Dick Meagher.
Cohen had the Sergeant-at-Arms with him
as off-sider. In other days Dick used to be
able to do this job single-handed and he and
the Gaud Mayor and the Speaker all drank
out of the one glass.
Edward Ilufton, who passed out other
day in Sydney, had been laboratory assistant
and professor’s offsider in the chemistry
department of Sydney University for 40 -
years, and was the oldest inhabitant on the
’Varsity staff. Few of the thousands of
undergrads who knew him Mould recognise
his name in the death notices, for he was
universally known to them as “Nedward
Nupton.” that being allegedly one-time Pro-
fessor Liversidge’s way of pronouncing his
name. “Nedward” was a prominent figure
in the orchestra stalls at the riotous demon-
strations termed “lectures” by Liversidge on
“noxygen” and other chemical elements.
That good sport, Ellison Marcartney,
Groperland’s new Governor, took over from
Edward Stone (Lieut.-Governor) without
any clashing of cymbals. He arrived on
Easter Monday and went straight home like
any ordinary bloke, so as to avoid interfer-
ing with the holiday of the proletariat. Later
in the week the Mayor gave an afternoon
reception, at which Sir William Ellison
made a distinct hit M’ith his speech, and the
Mayoress looked very fine in a statuesque,
ivory-pale way. Frank Rea, before he got
into the mayoral robes and chain of swans,
Mas known as the “Sausage King.” lie
made his pile out of mince-meat and gold
mines.
Fred W. Fairclough, who went aloft at
Wellington (M.L.) lately, had expounded
the Word according to Methody interpreta-
tion for 45 years in the Shaky Isles. Born
in South Aus. 65 years ago, Fairclough was
one of the first boys schooled at Newington
College—in those days located in the old
Blaxland home on Parramatta River. He
was a one-time president of the Methodist
Conference in M.L., and was twice delegate
to the Australasian General Conference in
Sydney. In 1899 he completed his qualifica-
tions as sky pilot by becoming a Fellow of
the Astronomical Society.
JUSTICE A'BECKETT (Vic.).
Rod. Quinn’s good-bye:—
Colonel Tom Parrott, who lately in S. Africa took
the long track to the Beyond, was a good Aus-
tralian who never side-stepped a rough and tumble
with Nature, and never knew, even with Nature’s
grip on liis' windpipe, what it was to be beaten.
Born in England, he came here at a mouldable age,
and, as surveyor, pastoralist and engineer, saw life
in the rough'in Western N. S. Wales and Queensland.
With the itch of the explorer making his feet rest-
less he went west of Cooper's , Creek, in the days
when west of Cooper’s Creek was so dim and dread
and distant that a man had to cross the place
where the Dead Men lie to reach it. Once
he lured me into a tortuous three-days’ tramp
through a gorge in the Dividing Range. He tried
to lure B. E. Minns also, but somehow failed. It
was a good thing for Minns and a bad thing for me.
Afterwards I wrote a book, “Mostyn Stayne,” and
picde Parrott one of its characters. I called him
.Torkins, because he seemed to be just Jorkins and
nobody else. In the days, when military affairs in
N. S. M'ales were mostly scarlet and gold-laced
inefficiency Parrott became a member of the Engineer
Corps. But lie was too big a man for the little
bosses, and about a dozen years ago threw up the
whole business and went to Africa, where he pursued
the profession of civil engineer till his death the
other day;
Alban Gee, who died last week at Sydney,
aged 70, was one of the pioneers of the
great meat-preserving business of Australia.
Just over 50 years ago he and his friend
Cordingley came from England and went:
THE RIVALS.
MRS. BACKGROUND : “She’s in and out of the
surf all day long.”
MR. BACKGROUND : “Yes, seems to divide her
affections between the land and the sea.”
to the Ramornie meat works on the N. 8.
Wales North Coast,. Gee as packer,
Cordingley as chemist. They did not last
long there. Cordingley —who died a few
years ago—went further north and pioneered
meat-preserving in Queensland; Gee, after
a year or two in Melbourne, had an inspira-
tion and formed the Sydney Meat Preserving
Co. For 43 years he was its general man-
ager ; during that period he never paid a
dividend, yet must have put millions into
the pockets of the shareholders. It was all
done through a rebate. The co. consisted
originally of big stock-owners. Its represen-
tative n'as always at the stock sales. If
the market was slack lie- put in his bids,
always bidding so high that it barely paid
the co. to buy—hence the absence of divi-
dends. Moreover, the co. got a rebate ; so that
the public had to outbid the co.’s bid, which
very frequently was more than the co. would
actually have to pay, because of the conces-
sion. The system was often attacked; but at
least this can be said: under Alban Gee’s
management the Sydney Meat Preserving
Co. did a great service in establishing abroad
a high reputation for Australian tinned
meats.
The GOth anniversary of the first S. Aus.
Parliament under Responsible Government
has set the Adelaide papers hunting for vet-
eran politicians. There is one survivor, 11.
B. T. Strangways, who was a youthful
prodigy, but retired to England nearly half
a century ago. The nearest rival in sight
is Charles Goode, who had a brief spell of
politics in 1865, but soon retired to turn his
attention to soft-goods and philanthropy.
This veteran, who puts - in the shade even
Edwin Smith (87, and still going strong), is
to open in May an extension of his favorite
charity, the North Adelaide Blind Institu-
tion, by way of celebrating his 90tli birth-
day.
Died at Sydney, Walter Ives, who was the
contractor for the building of the Lyceum
Theatre and the new portion of the Argyle
Bond. Ives was also director of works in
the building of Maedonell House for the
A.W.U., and at the new home of the
Water and Sewerage Board in Pitt-street.
He was at work on the latter job till six
days before his death. Ives urns for three
years president of the Master Builders’ Asso-
ciation. and a brother was a one-time Mayor
of Sydney.
A unique record is that of George Fisher,
accountant to Harrison, .Tones and Devlin,
Ltd., who has just completed half a century’s
service with the firm. In the first ’GO’S L.
M. Harrison was a stock and station agent
in King-street Sydney. In 1866 he was joined
by Richard Jones, jun., and the firm held its
first wool sale on February I of that year
on the ground door of one of the Blackwall
Stores, owned by Edward Flood. In the first
’7o's Tames Devlin, jun., who had been
carrying on a produce business at Circular
Quay, joined the firm, and in 1882 the
business was turned o.ver to a limited lia-
bility co. Mr, Fisher has been with the firm
in all its movements from the start. The co.’s
big building covers the site of the smithy
of Francis Cox, a whitesmith of the earliest
days, one of whose daughters became Mrs.
William Charles Wentworth.
WEEPIN’ WILLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When our trooper hit wide water every heart was
yearnin’ back
To the little ’ouse at Coogee or a hut at Barrenjack.
She was ’ookin’ up to spike the stars, or rootin' in
the wave.
An’ me liver turned a han’spring with each buck the
beggar gave.
Then we pulls a sick an’ silly smile an’ tips a saucy
lid,
Crackin’ hardy. Millie didn’t. Willie snivelled like
a kid.
At Gallip’ the steamer dumped us, an’ we got right
down to work,
Mhoopin’ up the hill splcndacious, playin’ tiggie
.with the Turk.
M'hen the stinkin’ Abdul hit us we curled down upon
a stone,
An’ we yelled for greater glory, crackin’ ’ardy on
our own.
Not so Millie. ITe was cursin’, cold cz death an’
grey ez steel,
An' the smallest thing that busted made the litlle
blighter squeal.
In the bitter days that fullered, spillin’ life beside
the sea,
M’o would fake a spry expression for the things that
had to be.
Always dressin’ up the winder, crackin’ ’ardy, though
we felt
Fearful creepy in the whiskers, very cold beneath
the belt.
But his jills would sniff and shiver in the mother of
a fright.
And go blubberin’ an' quakin’ out to waller in the
fight.
In the M'est we liked the weather, an’ we fattened
in the mud,
Crackin’ ’ardy', stewed together, rats an’ slurry, men
an’ blood.
M'cepin’ M’illie wouldn't have it these was pleasin’
tilings abed,
An' he shuddered in his shimmy if they passed him
with the dead.
M'hen he cried about his mother, in a gentle voice
he’d tell
Them as dumb-well didn’t like it they could go to
sudden ’ell.
There was nothin’ sweet for M’illie in a rough-up in
the wet;
But if all things scared him purple, not a thing had
slopped him yet.
If some chaps was wanted urgent special dirty work
to do
M’illie went in with a shudder, but he alwiz saw it
through.
Oh, a busy little body was our M'illie in a crush !
Then he’d cry out in the night about the faces in the
slush.
Moll, they pinked him one fine mornin’ with a
thumpin’ ’unk iv shell;
Put it in an’ all across him. MTiat he was you
couldn’t tell.
I saw him stitched an’ mended where he whimpered
in his bed,
An’ he’d on’y lived because he was afraid to die, he
said.
Sez he: “ ’Struth, they’re out there fightin’, trim-
min’ Bosches good an’ smart,
An’ I'm bedded here an’ ’elpless. It fair breaks a
feller’s ’cart.”
But he came again last Tuesday an’ we got it in a
breath—
“ London’s big ’n’ black ’n’ noisy. It, would scare
a bloke to death.”
He’s away now in the trenches, white an’ nervous,
but, you bet;
Playin’ lovely ’ands of poker, with his busy bay-o-net,
’Fraid of givin’ and of tailin’, ’fraid of" gases,
’fraid of guns—•
But a champion lightweight terror to the gorforsalcen
’Uns!
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


l " w “ firt^* v \ i :';^Tv
r i
u-
o
>sj
o
-a
s£>:
IS
a
/>i
i a
%
*(*■%
s»*3
QK
m
sZ
m
i
I
fl
r ’ r
>S
»l
.«£A2:-
t,i
«T<
»»
itm
19£
?u
i i.*4
mmij§m
fcj y hi-Qif-ifr fyu Yi
-Ml? rmfiifrtr
n
3;
riJ «H
iMmtiftM
m
;:!,
r
r' ;
6H<
*1:1
K
Wi
I VI
W
ill
l®' 1
M
ANY men admire a work of art in an abstract way but
fail altogether to appreciate its real beauty until some-
one more experienced undertakes to point it out.
Similarly, most well-dressed men are ready to admit the high character and quality of “Austral" Tailoring, but only those
who have experienced the satisfaction of the perfect fittings, tne individuality of styles and faithful workmanship are able
to fully realise the outstanding merit of this exceptional tailoring service.
Those men who live within a distance
which enables them to make a visit to the
store may learn what more and all they
Avant to know by a personal inspection of
the New 'Season's Suitings, and a chat
about the styles, with one or other of our
Staff of Expert Cutters; who are all day
at their service.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484=490 George Street, 3-17 Royal Arcade, and
304 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY,
Country Customers and tliose who live at
a distance, or find it inconvenient to call,
will be interested and pleased also by an
inspection of the new goods at their
leisure and in their own home. To any
id dress we send, post free, complete
ranges of patterns, with measurement
orm- and tape, which makes it simple
and quite safe to send a postal order.
Carriage is Paid on All Country Orders.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:—-
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine D;namixe
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
It is stupid policy in these times to put a
few banknotes in the stocking for a rainy
day. There is something better even than a
Savings Bank deposit. It is the War Savings
Certificate which can be got at any savings-
bank or at any post-office where money-
order business is transacted. You can get a
certificate for as little as 17s. (jd.; and that
17s. (id. will be worth £1 in three years. Or
£S 15s. will be worth £10; or £S7 10s. will
be worth £lOO. If the purchaser should
want the money before the three years are
up lie is quite free to sell the certificate;
indeed, the Treasury itself will refund the
money, with 3 per cent, interest, if the
owner can show a good reason for selling.
The Commonwealth guarantees the payment
of the money, the whole of which, mean-
time, will be used for war purposes. It is
a scheme by which anybody who can save
even as little as 17s. (id. can help to win the
war without either fighting or talking.
N. S. Wales Miners’ Accident Relief
Fund. —After doing mqst valuable service
to the mining community for 16 years this
insurance and pension fund will go out of
active business at the end of tile State’s
financial year (June 30), and insurance
under the Workmen’s Compensation Act will
take its place so far as new risks are con-
cerned. Among the politicians three men
did the miners great service in bringing the
fund into L. Fegan, Josiah
Thomas and E. W. O’Sullivan. The money
has been provided by a contribution of nine-
pence a fortnight deducted from the pay of
every employee of every mine of any size in
the country, an equal amount being provided
by the mine-owners and the State, a half each.
The benefits included accident pay, funeral
allowances, and (in case of fatal accident)
pensions to widows and dependants, includ-
ing children under 14. During the 16 years
of the existence of the Fund no less than
£523,492 has been distributed in benefits. In
all 77,534 cases of disablement have been
relieved ; 628 adults and 1175 children have
become pensioners through the subscriber be-
ing killed by accident, and 654 children have
drawn benefits in consequence of the perma-
nent disablement of the father. In one case
the total amount paid has amounted to nearly
£l5OO.
There were on the' books on December 31
last 305 beneficiaries classed as permanently
disabled, and it is very possible that many
others in receipt of benefits will not be able
to resume their ordinary occupations. All
these will, of course, continue to draw bene-
fits from the fund, which on December 31
had £336,000 of invested capital. Actuarial
valuations have been made from time to time,
and it may therefore be pretty safely assumed
that the Fund will easily suffice to meet all
obligations, though from their very nature
they cannot be closely valued. For instance,
last year no less than 14 widows remarried
and thus ceased to draw pensions. The so-
called “permanent” charges on the Fund at
December 31 represented an annual expendi-
ture of £33,995. This amount may possibly
be a trifle larger during the next year or
two, because beneficiaries not now classed as
permanently incapacitated may have to be
placed under that heading, but gradually
there will be a shrinkage, as children attain
the age of 14, widows re-marry and “perma-
nently” incapacitated beneficiaries recover or
die. The Fund will, of course, continue to
receive the benefit of its interest earnings,
which amounted last year to £12,421, equal
to nearly 40 p.c. of the total “permanent”
charges. It seems a fair thing that an actu-
arial report should be made as to the possi-
bility of increasing the benefits, in view of
the present high cost of living. Nobody is so
well entitled to this money as the
beneficiaries; and obviously the actuarial
position has altered since the last report
was made.
There seems to be some doubt as to what
is to be done with the Fund. PresTtiming that
the Miners’ Accident Relief Board will go
out of existence altogether, the proper officer
to hold and administer the Fund is the Pub-
lic Trustee, who no doubt would make use of
some of the existing organisation. Whether
the miners will find ft to their advantage to
come under the Workmen’s Compensation
Act instead of receiving benefits from this
Fund can only be proved by experience. This,
at any rate, can be said: the Fund has been
so sympathetically administered that it is
very doubtful whether the new machinery
will work with as little friction.
Here is an idea from Mrs. Maclurcan,
managing director of the Wentworth Hotel,
Ltd.. Sydney:—
I suggest a way of appealing to the sporting
instincts of Australians, while adding some millions
to the Commonwealth War Chest, with very little
expense in the way of advertising or collection.
My suggestion is that applications should be in-
vited for one million pounds, the interest on which,
amounting to £11,250 quarterly, should be distri-
buted by lottery to the subscribers of the loan, the
prizes to be allotted on the following scale:—
First prize ..£5OOO
Second prize .. 2000
Third prize . . 1000
Smaller prizes . . 3250
This would give the subscriber of £1 a quarterly
chance for 12 years—in all -18 chances —of becoming
the owner of £5OOO, and at the end of thfp time, if
he held his original bond or receipt, he would get
his principal repaid. Every subscriber of £1 would
•thus be interested in the division of £510,000.
Subscribing £lO for a yearly payment of about 9s.
does not appeal to the majority of people in the
same way as subscribing the same' amount for .',BO
distinct chances of getting £5OOO.
So as to be entirely above suspicion the quarterly
allotments could be drawn under Government super-
vision.
Note that the subscribers would risk nothing but
their interest. In my opinion a one million loan of
this character would be over-subscribed in a week,
and additional millions could be asked for as each
million becomes filled.
the only objection against this scheme would come
fiom the anti-lottery people; but is not something
of the samp kind now carried out by the State
Governments in the allotment of land ?
If the Government did not care to embark
m this business on its own account, lest
capital should be made out of it by the
enemy, who might conceivably use it to.sug-
gest that we were getting short of money;
the scheme might at any rate he tried sem'i-
privately. This could easily be done. The
Government could undertake to allot a com-
mittee a million pounds of a loan, payment
to be made less Ihe exes, ordinarily incurred
by the Government, and the committee could
float the loan and issue the certificates on
what terms and conditions it liked. The
Plan, which is well-known in Europe, is
certainly worth a trial. So are plenty of
others—a. lot better worth a trial than the
issue of I O U’s payable in three years.
*** ' *
The Australian Amicable, one of the
insurance concerns to which The Bulletin
has given some attention, and whose methods
have served as a text for a few Wild Cat
sermons on the neglected duties of Govern-
ments, has at last arranged for its own
funeral. An agreement has been entered
into with the Guardian (an English co.)
under which the latter "takes over, guaran-
tees and manages the Eire and all other
departments except the Life and Endowment
business.” As to the latter “the Co-opera-
tive Assurance Co. accepts the transfer.”
This paper congratulates the policy-holders.
The Ipswich Gas and Coke Co. (Queens-
land) :
t eb., Profit. Dividend. To Reserves. Reserves.
1910.. £1869 lOp.c. = £l2OO £669 £5537
1911.. 2181 10 „ „ 1200 981 6518
1912.. 2417 10 ~ ~ 1700 717 7235
1913.. 2020 10 ~ „ 2000 20 7255
1914.. 2102 10 „ „ 2000 102 7357
Written off, £BOO .. 6557
1915.. 2366 10 p.c. = 2466 6457
Transferred to capital, £6OOO 457
1916.. 3423 10 p.c. = 3150 273 730
1917.. 3042 8J ~ „ 2934 108 838
Because it was able to pay 10 p.c. on old
capital, assisted by reserves, this co. thought
it could go on paying 10 p.c. on new capital,
invested in new works; and a year ago it
actually paid 10 p.c. on old and new capital
-plus capitalised reserves. It certainly
shouldn’t have been able to do it out of the
supply of an article like gas for lighting
and power. For the past year the cq. is a
bit more moderate; yet it pays even now
more than it ought to, unless it has an inter-
nal reserve somewhere to provide for depre-
ciation ; and there is no sign of such a thing.
The financial position is easy ; the co. has
liquid assets £4Oll in excess of liabilities.
£4371 of new capital having been got in
during the year. The capital is now £30,000,
including a few pounds of unpaid calls.
This and all other gas cos. in Queensland
came under the operation of a new Gas Act
on April 1. The framers of this measure
built it partly on the English and partly on
the largely-inoperative N. S. Wales Act. It
makes a much more strenuous effort than the
N. S. Wales law to secure a good, clean
supply. In fact, whereas the principal object
of the N. S. Wales law was to control the
price (and it made a howling mess of that),
the Queensland measure regards the quality
of the goods as the first thing to be seen to.
Here it mostly follows English law. Also,
as in England, it is obligatory on a c 6. to
supply would-be customers. Section 10 lays
down the process where the premises are
more than 2o yards from a main. Any 20
occupiers or owners of premises “situated in
a defined locality within the limits where.n
a co. is authorised to supply gas" may send
a memorial to the Minister asking for a
supply and undertaking to be consumers for
at least 12 months. The Minister may then
refer the memorial to a gas referee. This
officer sits as a Court to fix prices and do
other odd jobs under the Act. If the return
by gross sales will not be less than 20' p.c.
p.a. on the outlay incurred by the co. in
making such extension or giving the supply,
the referee may order the co. to go ahead
within a specified time; and if the co.
doesn't obey, the Minister may take the job
in hand and the cost plus the Department’s
exes., on being certified by the Minister, may
be filed with the Registrar of the Supreme
Court, and that means a bailiff' on the
premises.
The N. S. Wales Act went wrong in
fixing two standards that couldn't be recon-
ciled. It fixed the standard rate of dividend
at 10 p.c. on old ordinary capital, 7 p.c. on
ordinary capital to be raised subsequently
and 5 p.c. on pref. capital. That was ail
right, except that, inasmuch as the cos. had
the right to revalue their assets and make
their capital equal to the full value, 10 p.c.
was an absurdly high standard rate. At the
same time a standard price was fixed —3s. Gd.
per 1000 cub. feet. It was simply impossible
for cos. to pay 10 p.c. on the revalued capital
at the 3s. (id. rate; and that threw the slid-
ing scale out of gear. But the principle is
right—to fix a standard dividend and a
standard price, and to say, “Increase the
price (except for certain specified reasons),
and the dividend must come down. Decrease
the price, and you may pay more than the
standard dividend.” Actually in Sydney the
present price is 4s. lid., and the cos. are still
unable to pay the standard dividend. The
Queensland Act says that the price shall be
that charged on November 1, 1915, until
otherwise fixed. The fixing is to be done by
the gas referee, already mentioned, with an
appeal to an Arbitration Judge. The referee
is told how he is to proceed. First he must
find out the cost of production—all the items
are specified. These costs, by the way. in-
clude “repairs and maintenance of works
and plant” and “repairs, maintenance and
renewal of mains and service pipes”; also
“depreciation as allowed by the State Coni-
missioner of Income Tax.” That looks as
though depreciation maybe allowed twice over.
Obviously if you pay for renewals out of
revenue you should not also be allowed for
depreciation. Then the referee, having found
out the total cost of production, does a little
sum and finds out what the cost is per
1000 ft. (10 p.c. is allowed off for leakage).
To that lie adds 8-1 p;c. on the “actual
amount of money invested in the gas under-
taking.” and does another sum to find out
what that interest is per 1000 ft. Then he
adds the cost of production and the 84 p.c.
interest and a provision for discount (one-
ninth of the total of the other two items).
The total is to be the charge to the consumer,
who, however, is to he allowed 10 p.c. off
for paying up in 21 days. There are other
allowing small extra charges
where the consumption is low; also for gas
by prepayment meters.
So it will be seen that this Act doesn’t say
anything about dividends. Apparently a co.
may pay away in dividends all it can make.
Indeed, it looks as though it is expected to-
pay away all it makes, because the reserve
fund is limited to an annual improvement of
1 p.c. of the capital (including premiums),
and is limited in the aggregate to 10 p.c.
There is nothing about pref. capital deben-
tures or other borrowed money ; it is all. if
used in the undertaking, allowed a return of
84 p.c. See how this works out. A co. has
£lOO.OOO in the business, £25 000 of it raised
by 5 p.c. debentures. It is allowed £B5OO
interest. The interest actually paid on deben-
tures is £1250. So the balance (£7250) will be
available for the shareholders, and that will
be equal to 9§ p.c. How the valuation of
the property (“money used in the undertak-
ing”) is to be made is also unspecified.
“Land occupied by the co. and used in the
business” may. for instance, supply a knotty
problem. Thus, suppose it were in the
middle of the city, would it be valued on the
basis of the sale value of surrounding land
or for what it was worth in the co.’s gas-
making business?
Everything, almost, will depend on admin-
istration. The schedules which prescribe the
standards for purity, etc., and the method of
arriving at the costs of production, etc., may
be “amended or added to or a new schedule
in lieu thereof substituted by Order in Coun-
cil,” though there is the queer proviso that,
if a co. kicks —nothing is said about the pub-
lic kicking—“the same shall not take effect
unless or until a Judge of the Court of
Industrial Arbitration has held a public
inquiry and allowed such amendment.”
Apparently, however, that doesn’t apply to a
new schedule. If the present schedule's give
tb* cos. a chance to make something gaudy,
it may therefore be taken for granted that
either flTose schedules will be altered or
somebody will have to do a lot of log-rolling.
Which isn’t a satisfactory way of disposin'"
of a matter of this kind at all.
A. and E. Ellis, Ltd., sawmillers and
timber merchants, of Sydney and the
N.S.W. northern rivers:—
_ „ ... ~ To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
” 1912. . £6117 lOp.c. = £4955 £1162 1187
. . 7588 10 „ „ 5597 1991 3178
teb., 1914 .. 4218 10 ~ „ 3495 723 3901
rT" Jo!- - ‘ o^ 8 7 ” » 2625 1773 5674
I'eb., 1915 .. 3i/l 8„ „ 3000 771 6445
Aug-.. 1915.. 3744 8 „ 3000 744 7189
*eb. : 1916.. 3736 8„ „ 3000 736 7925
3104 8 » - 30( >0 104 8029
teb. ; 1917.. 2249 6„ „ 2250 8028
Things are not what they were; and thev
are_ not likely to be, either, for a lor"
while to come. How could it be otherwise?
V\ hen party politicians were borrowing
scores of millions and using the money to
corrupt the constituencies, nobody was much
concerned about getting fair value for any-
thing. Had there been anything serious in
the way of competition among timber men.
and especially among timber men supplying
the heavy stuff that Governments want
most of, prices might have been kept moder-
ate. But there was a “horrible understand-
ing'’ among the big men in the trade, and
the prices that have ruled were simply un-
dreamed of a few years ago. Now the wonder-
ful orgy is over. Australia is still borrowing
and spending tens of millions, but they are
traders in other lines who are reaping the har-
vest now—the draper and the milliner and
the fancy-goods specialist, the cloth-weaver
and the blanket-maker, and the concern
which puts up food in tins. After the war
there will probably be for a time very little
borrowing, and what there is won’t be for
construction purposes. We have had our
building boom for a few years; and cos.
such as this have had their dash. Their
best hope for some time to come lies in an
export trade in hardwood. It may be mad-
ness for Australia to permit this export—
there are a few patriotic timber-men who
don't hesitate to express this opinion—but
the chances of prohibition are very small.
Nobody wants to bo bothered. A party
can't be sure of gaining any votes by pro-
hibiting an export trade in, say, timber; it
is only doing something for posterity. But
it can be dead-sure of losing a few votes; and
what is posterity compared with a few
votes? So probably the export trade in our
hardwoods won't be checked; and that may
help to keep this co.’s pot boiling. For-
tunately. it hasn’t piled up a big stock
against an expensive overdraft; it faces dull
times with total liabilities of under £24,0(10,
and on the other side it has £31,679 in
stock and £16.741 in book debts.
Baker’s Creek, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), is at
last in the hands of the liquidator. Most of
the big guns of Adelaide were in at the
jump. It was Billy Neales, alias “the
Scorpion.’’ because of his sting in the mar-
ket, that got the claim under offer from
Smith the antimony prospector of Hillgrove.
Cornish and Strange were the top-joints in
the float, but W. K. Simms, Tom Cowan,
W. It. Wilson and ,T. C. F. Johnson —all
dead now —had big interests in the wonder-
ful little mine. It got good gold from the
start and ran divs. up to nearly a
quarter of a million before it got to the non-
paying stage. This once entered, it never
lifted its head again despite all the other
ground mopped up as the years rolled on.
Splendid deposits of first-class magnesite,
which is largely used for industrial purposes,
including the manufacture of a marble-like
plaster, exist at Manilla and Cobbadah
(N.S.W.), but these bodies have never been
extensively drawn upon. The chief reason for
this is that Germany used to supply Austra-
lian consumers with magnesite at about £2 a
ton. which made the local product impossible.
So we sent the whole 495. out of the
country, whereas with decent Protection
and a little practical patriotism w T e could
have kept the whole 60s. at which the local
stuff could be supplied.
* * * *
Scantlebury’s discovery that “there is
much more stone and very much less gold
than usual" isn’t the best news to date about
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.Land there
is nothing particularly attractive ahead. So
Scantlebury has undertaken a contract with
the Central Co., which has ground between
the Amalgamated and Hawkins Hill
Reward, and is driving his lower tunnel into
the Central’s area, a fair figure per foot
and a percentage of gold being allowed for
the driving. The tunnel will have to go
200 ft. into the Central to meet the Pat-
riarch shaft: to date it extends only about
I.ooft. With its country thus explored and
made accessible the Central seems to be on
a good thing.
“J.G.”: A few days back over 1000 Vic-
torian antimony miners employed at Coster-
field and Clonbinane were told that the
sack was hanging over them because it had


WRITE for BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be
obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
as
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
of
YOUR WILL.
Trust Funds now under the
Company’s control exceed
£12,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
S. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
THE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent. «
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA & QUEENSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 48 YOUNG STREET.
Directors:
The Hon. .Sir CHARLES Ivi MACKELLAR,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman).
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq. R. M. PITT, Esq.
F. B. S. FALIUNER, Esq.
Before making a Will or Settlement of pro-
perty or appointing an Attorney write for book-
let giving the Company’s charges and setting
forth the advantages of appointing the Com-
pany, to JOHN MAIR. Manager.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: City 4375. Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly maga-
zine containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it,
as the contents are original, instructive and com-
plete in every detail, being contributed by the
leading- engineers of the world. The subscription is
only ten shillings (10s.) per year, so subscribe now,
or write to the Australian General Electric Co.,
At entworth Avenue, Sydney, for a free sample
copy.—A dvt.
A New Invention. —One of the most interesting
and useful of all exhibits seen at the recent
Easter Show was an All-Steel Fence, designed and
made in Australia by the Rawson, Moody Mfg. Co.,
o43 Kent Street, Sydney. This new fence, which is
built with powerful steel posts and wire, saves 80 per
cent, in labor, weighs only one-fifth the weight, and
will last a lifetime, as compared with the present-
day method of wooden fences, that decay so quickly.
All interested in fencing should see this fence, as it
will save money; it costs only I2s. Od. to 15s. per
chain complete. A fence is on view at the above
address, or an illustrated catalogue will be sent on
request.— Advt.
* * * *
Knowledge is of two kinds. AVe know a subject
ourselves, or we know where we can find information
upon it. Builders, mineowners, stationowners, etc.,
who have heard of the many merits of Adaniax
Roofing—or who are desirous of learning more about
its many good points—should send to-day for a free
copy of the Adama.x booklet, “The Adamax Series.”
It; is a neatly-designed booklet, chockful of valuable
information upon Adamax Roofing and the other
Adamax lines. Mail your request to AVilliam
Adams & Co., Ltd., S3’dney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Berth and Adelaide.
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (V r ic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. fid. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
tiie handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard slacked on the roadside,• and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. 5d.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow Ifiin. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. — Advt. (2
* * ' * •
Pioneer AVood Pipe has won the approval of all
the State Governments. This is demonstrated by
the many orders we have received from them.
Descriptive Catalogue' free upon application. The
Australian AVood Pipe Company Ltd., contractors to
all State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(head office). Factories: Lane Cove River, N.S.AV. ;
Footscrav, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd., 56 Pitt Street, Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.— Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastriev & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and AVilcox AVater-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt.
* * M *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins “street ' Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice ’ Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney * and
44o Bourke Street, Melbourne. —Advt.
vareßornto
Insure in
»* 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Gross Premium income 187,940
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock..
AGENTS WANTED.
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE. General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagii Street, Sydney.
been suddenly discovered that there were
no ships available to carry the concentrates
to the other end of the world. After about
•i week’s idleness the Defence people made
arrangements for the transport of the con-
centrates to England for treatment, and the
racked men were re-engaged. I suppose
we'll have it all over again presently when
there’s another shortage of ships. The
blessed concentrates must be sent across the
sea: the voyage ripens them.
New Burragorang (N.S.W.) from this out
will have to pay an increased tariff to the
Sulphide Corporation for smelting its silver-
lead crudes, and this no doubt is the reason
for suspending consignments of second-grade
ore. A recent loj; of 36 tons realised £23 Bs.
per ton; but that doesn’t tell us what the
profit was. In 1916 the co. produced 422
tons of high-grade ore and 274 tons of sec-
onds, for which it received £11.569, but the
net profit was only £1065. A consignment
of 45 tons sent away at the end of 1916
assayed 130.50 x. silver and 43.6 p.c. lead,
but this was an exceptionally good lot. The
shaft is down 1140 ft., and the time is
approaching when new levels will be opened.
The directors are acting wisely in doing this
development work while silver and lead are
selling at high prices.
A molybdenite deposit that has lain unde-
veloped for many years at Marsden’s Swamp,
near Hampton, in the Blue Mountains
(N.S.W.), is now being attacked with vigor.
Alex. Riddel, one-time of North Queensland
and the Barrier (he was the silver field’s first
parson), being in charge. Riddel is very san-
guine. and it would be difficult to find a man
who has had more practical grapplings with
the metal, both as regards the mining and
the milling of the ore. Operations are so far
only in the oxidised zone, hut appearances
point to something cheering when the sul-
phides are reached, and a very trivial amount
of work will lay them hare. Situated only
four miles from the Mt. Victoria-Jenolan
Caves road, with a never-failing supnly of
splendid water, and with every possible ad-
vantage as to site for both mining
and treatment operations, a small percentage
of molybdenite will pay as-long as the metal
keeps up to its present dizzy height. If by
the favor of fortune a mining town springs
up in Marsden’s Swamp, and there are sev-
eral veins of ore to encourage the hope, it
will have the distinction of being one of the
most favorably-situated mining centres in
the world, scenic effects, climate and healthy
conditions being all there in combination.
* * * *
Various molybdenite claims have been
taken up in the Tam worth and New England
districts. In all cases, however, the bodies
appear to be in the form of short shoots.
The Federal Government is said to be still
disinclined to allow any co. to be formed to
work molybdenite mines. Permission has
even been refused in cases where not a penny
was to be taken out of the subscribed capital
to reimburse the vendors for the money
spent in preliminary development. Somebody
will be saying presently that the Federal
authorities don’t, for some reason or other,
want to do anything to reduce the price
which tile Allies are paying for molybdenite.
The present price of copper is encouraging
the unwatering of many old copper-mines
for the purpose of precipitating the copper
often held in solution in the water, and one
undergoing the operation is the old
Gulf Greek mine, about 11 miles from Cob-
badah (N.S.W.). Edgley. the Bathurst
storekeeper, who is widely known as a game
speculator, is responsible for the undertak-
ing. and a fair amount of copper precipitate
has already been sent away. The scrap-iron,
principally ancient fencing-wire, is carted by
road 23 miles, and is placed in rows of pits
constructed of brick and cement, from one to
another of which the cupriferous water
trickles, depositing its copper content on the
way and taking up iron in its stead. Bar-
ring the initial expenditure on the precipita-
tion pits and the many railway and road
charges on the iron, it is a remarkably cheap
way of obtaining copper, so long as the water
supply hangs out. As the Gulf Creek mine,
which formerly belonged to a strong German
co.. has considerable underground workings,
and is filled with water almost to the surface,
there is a large supply of the liquid below.
A local syndicate which holds part of the
original Gulf Creek leases, and is at present
raising copper from above the water level, is
awaiting with interest the lowering of the
water, the belief being that a promising body
of good ore was left in the old workings on
the syndicate’s ground. At the present rate
of baling, however, it will be a long time
before they get a chance of beholding the
treasure—if it exists.
* * * *
Attention is also being paid to the Kyloe
copper mine, which was the most promising
of a group in the south-east that leached a
lot of silver out of Sydney speculators’
pockets a few years ago.
* * * #
Peacock will have to be careful or he will
be in difficulties over Victoria’s brown coal
—-presuming that he honestly does want to
preserve it as public property. Eager hands
are stretched out to get the picked ground
in front of the open-cut at Morwell, and it
will take a solid heave to lift up a big foot
that is already planted there. One nibbler
lias been successful in biting into the deposit,
but with no work done and with labor condi-
tions to be kept going it should not be any
more difficult to get that intrusive element
out of the way than it was for Peter
Mcßryde, when he was Minister, to recover
the ground that went out of hand at Won-
thaggi. The Labor people are out to make
trouble if State ownership isn't preserved
inviolate at Morwell. The little game of
buying back brown-coal areas that had to
be played in Saxony is not going to be
repeated here if they can help it.
* * * *
Those who have hung on to Duke and
Main Leads, Maryborough (Vic.), have had
31s. back for their pluck. The faces are now
far down the Duke gutter, away from the
Main lead junction, and the ground is tail-
ing off in value just at a time when it is
the hardest job possible to get the old type
of alluvial man to work the mine. Values
have got down to ■ 635. Bd. per fathom
against 665. 9d. a few months 'back, while
costs are up to 52s.—an extra 2s. 2d. per
fathom. Down the gutter 1160 ft. of lead is
cut up, but 700 ft. has to be left, as it only
touches the lOdwt. mark. The other 400 ft.
is green and will have to drain before it can
be trucked to the sluice-boxes. In 94 years
nearly 14,500 ft. of the lead has been worked,
leaving 3500 ft. to be tackled; but that takes
in the 700 ft. of poor wash, and its excision
means a big slab off the life of the mine.
Perth and Adelaide are out on another
Edna May bear raid. Granite intrusions at the
bottom level and possible water troubles are
the first two items on the news bill. But
the Westralians talk most of depleted ore
reserves. The staff won’t listen to this; a
clear-cut official bulletin affirms that the
3s. monthly divs. are in no danger and that
reserves are O.K. The dividend just paid
ate up £6400 out of £7300 on hand at the
start of March. But the April .yield has put
funds sound again, and as capital expen-
diture (except for the last bits of shaft
sinking) is over for a while Mick Williams
ought to be able to clearly see the future up
to the time he gets to the Deeps boundary.
Nevertheless the bears are on the hunt; but
scrip is as scarce as sovereigns nowadays.
From Westonia :—■
The crushing- from Edna May Consolidated’s -05 ft.
level reef yielded 13d\yt. by amalgamation. A
crushing from another i reef at 210 ft. is going
through, and much depends on what it yields, as
this reef has most of the experts beaten as regards
both size and value. The one feature about_ it
which seems plain is that Edna Central will benefit
at depth.
An accident to the underground electric pumps
gave Edna May bears a thrill at Easter time.
However, the break was remedied quickly
enough to assure the payment of the usual 3s. divi-
dend for some time ahead. The bears who sold
down to 655. six months ago are thinking that the
expected reduction in dividend is a long time
coming.
Edna May Deeps and Battlers continue to chase
rainbow ends, and shareholders pay Cd. and 3d. per
month cheerfully enough to see the- performance.
Jim Hunter, who lias been working some-
where in the lmekblocks of N. S. Wales and
before that in Nigeria, is the expert selected
for Nullagine. If he says “Go on !” no doubt
Collins House will give him a chance to
wipe off the £5OOO blister on the show, for
which Robinson and Dick Hamilton stand
between the co. and the bank. Hunter
goes west at once.
Leonora Blocks (W.A.) reports that the
winze sunk from the 400 ft. level has exposed
rich ore; but as the practice among most
Westralian cos. nowadays is to start winz-
ing in the very best parts of the reef, much
importance cannot be attached to the
announcement.
Speaking from the chair at the Associated
Northern meeting in London the aged Her-
man Landau regretted the co.’s inability to
pay a dividend in “this stressful time” ; but
insisted that the war and not the Board
was to blame. From the Gimlet leases, at
Ora Banda (W.A.), which the directors
acquired last year for £B5OO (including
machinery valued at £2000), approximately
13,000 tons had been extracted and treated
for a recovery of £37,602. The present
appearance of this show is satisfactory, and
the management hoped that as developments
proceeded the ore body would hold better
in depth than the neighboring Victorious, in
which nothing payable had been discovered
below No. 7 level. The Mexican property
when last heard of was still intact, but
until normal conditions were restored in
that country it would not be possible to
resume operations. Directors’ fees had been
reduced by £7OO per annum as from Jan. 1
last year, and a further reduction would
take place this year, as it was not intended
to appoint a director in place of the missing
Belgian Pierre Ledoux.
Black Range Pinnacles (W.A.) has its
main shaft down below 200 ft., and is now
getting ready to open out and drive its No.
2 level at that point. A winze sunk about
half-way from No. 1 level shows the lode to
be 44ft. wide, with values “considered to be
worth 60s. per ton.” That sort of estimate
is not good enough to gamble on.
Tired of waiting for a Federal Arbitration
Court Judge to hear its application for
increased wages and improved conditions,
Kalgoorlie and Boulder Miners’ I T nion has
notified the State Executive that, unless a
definite date for the hearing is announced
before May 3, it will CQnsider the advisable-
ness of ceasing work. Many local mine-
workers have already gone to more con-
genial employment. Some are wharf-lump-
ing at Fremantle and others have shifted to
the Collie coal-field near Banbury. Chamber
of Minds estimates there is a shortage of
about TOO men on the Kalgoorlie field. The
shortage of efficient labor threatens to force
some of the mining cos. to shut down.
Already two or three are flying signals of
distress.
Tyrconnell, Kingsborough (N.Q.), has
been worked intermittently since the early
’7o’s, so it is refreshing to find the deepest
level at 265 ft. sending good crushings to the
mill so regularly. The fortnightly clean-up
at the end of March was 308 oz. from 210
tons. Ever since the rain came the battery
has been crushing payable stone. But the
gold isn’t of high quality, so it isn’.t wise
to get excited at returns worth even 30dwt.
per ton. The best shoot extends for a length
of 226 ft., but the reef, although often 6ft.
and Bft. wide, varies in quality. You cannot
expect large reserves at shallow levels in an
old mine, but the present run of good crush-
ings should provide money to continue
development work below the very moderate
depth of 265 ft.
Charters Towers produced a poor little
£25,24!) for the first three months of this
year, as compared with £52,007 for the simi-
lar period in 1916 —and that wasn’t anything
to feel good about. Most of the famous old
mines are in the hands of tributors; and the
running exes, have to be carried by very small
returns. So Brilliant Extended, which has
to haul a lot of water, is making a loss;
though an improvement at the eastern end
of No. 20 hanging-wall level may help the
old mine for a while. The Papuan’s last
clean-up averaged £5 6s. 7d. for, 272 tons;
the last half-yearly average was £7 2s. Id.
from 992 tons. Clark’s trouble is the
smallness of the reef. Just at present Sin.
of good stone is showing in the face of No.
8 level; but that’s above the average.
* * * *
Back Creek deep lead, Lefroy (Tas.). has
struck the wash in the roof of the drive.
Two dishes panned off gave a return of
about three grains of gold. Everything is
ready to start sluicing immediately.
Speculators have taken rather a dismal
view of gold dredging at •Rimu Flat (MX.),
and the first clean-up of 38oz. sdwt. of gold
(worth say £150) from Rimu No. 1 Co.’s
dredge doesn't dispel the gloom. The gold
is so fine that it has to be recovered by amal-
gamation. A telegram mentions that the
dredge was only on bottom wash-dirt during
three days; but obviously in dredging a flat
30ft. deep the time occupied in taking up
the bottom must be comparatively short.
* * * *
Tongkah Harbor (Siam) produced 157
tons of black tin from 363.000 cub. yds. of
dirt during March, and the first return in
April was 35 tons for a week’s run. The
output for March was the largest of any
tin-dredging co. in the world; but, then,
the tin world is almost confined to Malava.
Siam, Bolivia and Australia, for the
European, African and N. American produc-
tion is very small.
* * * *
Tongkah Compound (Siam) reappears on
the dividend list with a sixpenny (£3750).
So far no new dredging area has been
secured, but a co. with £13.000 in hand will
sooner or later find a Malayan area to suit
its requirements. Dividends total £156.250.
and nearly all the money was earned by a
single dredge in five years. After such a
successful career it is a bit difficult for tbe
Board to satisfy itself with a low-grade pro-
position.
* * * *
Larut (F.M.S.) has declared its first
dividend of Is. 6d. per share (£3750). Its
latest dredging return is 39 tons of tin from
81,000 cub. yds. This is for a run of 583
hours and follows a return of 36 tons of tin.
also for a month. The average is a shade
over lib. per yard, and the capacity of the
dredge being large, there is—bar accidents
—every prospect of steady dividends. Tbe
tin-saving appliances in this co.’s machine
are the most complete in jthe world.
And still it is doubtful whether the recovery
is 80 p.c. Dredging for the recovery of tin
is a slap-dash method.
The third annual report of Cactus Estates,
Ltd., isn’t cheerful reading, for the co. made
a loss of £5BB during 1916, increasing tiie
debit balance to £4836. The sale of arsenious
chloride for the destruction of prickly-pear
doesn’t catch on ; and the efforts to produce
potash from the vegetable on a commercial
basis have so far failed. The co. has 150,000
paid up shares and 67,500 contribs.; but it
doesn’t look as though that matters.


Under
Royal
Warranf
fsd
To H.M.
Kin£>
George V
CHAMPAGNE
f
sdf
CHAMPAGNE
OuuiesHeidsietfc
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
%oS\<t
w ALLAN &. CO.
Pty. lto.
FINE PIANO PJECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/1.
Norwegian Cradle Song —MW
Meditation - - Morel
A Resolve - * Kotlar
Question - . - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blore
ALLAN'S, 261 Collins St.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET ®. CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sir CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
COGNAC
eSTB?
1795
BRANDY
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydxey, April 23, 1917.
My Dear A rim. —
Parliament opened and hardly anyone
seemed to remember that it was ever a frilly
function. Members’ wives and their rela-
tives toddled into the shabby old haunt
where the marble faces of long-dead legis-
lators line the background. But the war
swallows the local politician. The crush
that used to fight its way into the gallery
is notv immersed in socks.
Premier Holman and his missus took
Stella Ividgell to England with them this
time. She is the missus’s younger sister.
Of course, there’s an official secretary and a
private secretary besides.
Excellency Helen had mixed weather for
her Bed Cross rally in the Northern Rivers
district. Now she is back at Admiralty
1 louse, counting up the good works
the dairy and sugar-cane country put up
for our wounded. Talking of the North,
have you ever tasted jackfruit from those
partsV Her Ex. jibbed at the too-luscious
morsel they offered her in the Northern Dis-
trict section at the Show.
Died at Waverley, a few days back, Emily
Anne, wife of William Vero Bead, baronet,
Ihe 10th holder of the title. Father-
in-law was the late John Cecil Read,
Governor of Darlinghurst Gaol. He would
never use the title. The son was connected
with the Government Railways for many
years till his retirement in 1890, when lie
was chief traffic-manager. The baronetcy
was created away back in 1641.
Killed in action, Roy Monie, lieutenant
in the R.F.A., and son of (lie William Monies
of Burwood. Ilis brother, Bruce, with a
captaincy in the same arm, was killed last
year in France; another brother, Keith, is
with our own Artillery. Sister Olga, you
remember, became Mrs. Lebbeus Hordern a
lew years back.
The Bush Book Club shed honest regrets
at the departure of J.ady Edeline Strickland.
Its annual meeting in the ballroom at Gov-
ernment House was the last function there
in the Stricklands’ reign. Meredith Atkinson
dropped a few lucid remarks, Mrs. Clunies
Ross spoke for the cause, and Mrs. Aubrey
Withers related some of the club’s early
struggles to get literature to Saltbush Bill
and liis missus. Poetess Dorothea Mackellar,
now on the executive, attended, looking like
an ethereal daughter of Scottish braes. Sec-
retary Beulah Bolton mentioned the tastes
of the people who live behind the sunset —
Mrs. Henry Woods and her heroines, who
wring their hands with grief; Nat Gould.
Conan Doyle; classics such as Fanny
Burney’s Evelina; Shakspeare, Meredith
and Emerson—all are in constant demand.
A queer mixture, but clean. No word of
Elinor Glyn and the rather sooty lady-scribes
of pre-war vogue.
An immense programme, that eventually had
to go at a gallop, filled the show bill for St.
Vincent’s Hospital matinee. The pity of it
was that the first and weakest act of
“Daddy Long Legs.” which most people have
seen, arrived early and blocked the traffic,
so that many people had to leave before the
variety turns arrived. Still, there is a hand-
some cheque to come from the Firm’s obla-
tion in Her Majesty’s. Mrs. Kenna, Mrs.
Herbert Kendall and Mrs. Howse were lion,
secs, and general rouseabeuts.
Ida Rentoul’s show at Anthony Horderns’
ai-t gallery proves that there is still plenty
of paper money even for art. Mrs. Cullen,
who opened the exhibition, emphasised the
Melbourne woman’s insight into the child
mind. Every baby loves the moon—partly
because it looks like something sweet to
suck. and. besides, it’s out of reach. In all
or nearly all the Ida Rentoul drawings (she’s
Mrs. Outhwaite when you meet her in
Collins-street) there’s the great white moon,
winged fairies and the inky black wood that
holds the gnomes. A Sentimental Bloke
and his Doreen sailing up a moonlight sky
with a frog as chaperon costs 10 guineas.
And the artist gets it, and much more; her
sketches sell like hot muffins at anything up
to 20 guineas.
Phyllis Spence, a younger daughter of
Percy, the black-and-white artist formerly
in Australia, has a clever drawing in a
recent London Graphic. The child, now
14, was always something of a prodigy.
When the very remarkable Spence family
lived at Manly, Phyllis, at seven, wrote some
kiddies’ verse and illustrated it; and a very
little later she decorated a kindergarten
classroom there with her original drawings
—some of them very original. Grandpa was
that well-gilded .T. P. Wright who used to
be the employers’ representative on the old
Arbitration Court.
The War Chest rally in the William Cul-
len grounds, Mosman, is fixed for Saturday.
No raffles! For this relief a thousand thanks.
The difficulty of walking half a yard at
these affairs without being trodden on by
swarms of damsels who offer you the one-in-
a-hundredth chance of carrying home a plum
cake, a bulldog, or a mangle, becomes a
public calamity. It keeps the timid away,
and blocks the sale over the counter at the
stalls, where lady pirates lie in wait for
their prey. In any case, the Cullens don’t
approve of this cheap-jaekery. So Tregoyd’s
wonderland garden won’t be spoilt by cousin
Susie Baffles. Lady Helen Ferguson opens
the show.
“Went West” on Easter Sunday, some-
where in France, Corporal Gus. Dyer, the
bright and cheerful eldest son of Govern-
ment Photographer Dyer—who also lost his
eldest daughter a few months ago. The dead
soldier was attached to the 9th Field Ambu-
lance, and in peaceful days was an officer of
the Commonwealth Bank.
Here’s luck to the lion, secretary of the N.
S. Wales Women’s Battleplane fund —Mrs.
Tom Watson! With her coadjutors (the
word has a fighting sound these days) she
put in a week or so collecting the final
£ s. d. at the Easter Show. Not a pleasant
job for a sensitive woman, but the ultimate
shillings count. Hon. treasurer Bryant writes
a clinking postcript: “Cable instructions
have been sent by the Union Bank (Sydney)
to its London office to pay the amounts sub-
scribed to the Bank of England for credit of
the Secretary of War Office.” That means
two air-ships from us this month, because
the N. S. Wales Government promised to
present one ’plane if we could rattle up
enough to buy another.
Here is Mrs. V> atson’s photo. The popu-
ular Double Bay hostess is going to take one
bar rest at Bowral, after months spent in
making a shilling fund climb up to £2700.
Hitherto the Journalists' Institute has
taken its pleasures easily. It is the thing the
pressman and the presswoman and the mis-
cellaneous crowd which is on the fringe of
journalism belong to when they don’t want
to soil themselves with the frankly trades-
unionistic A.J.A. ; and its most arduous
labors have consisted of listening to distin-
guished wanderers who, in return for enter-
tainment, had nothing to say, and took; a
long time over it. Well-meaning old “‘Gossip ’
McMillan threatens to smash up this peace-
ful browsing. He proposes a salon. But a
dull evening to discuss for drown) the
notion came to no result. Editor Tom Ileney
took the chair till the hour struck, when he
had to flee to the rabbit warren in Ilunter-
street. Yerbrugghen was the guest of honor,
and amazed the company by telling editors
how to edit their papers. Which was only
fair of him, because they have nearly all
been telling the Government how to run a
Conservatorium.
Melba’s grandson lived two hours. Then
the light flickered out of the tiny body for
which such mountains of fine silk and lace
had been prepared. To a trusted friend
the Nightingale sent elaborate instructions
for feathering the nurseling’s nest, if any-
thing should happen to its famous grandma
on the submarined sea. But the happening
was baby Armstrong’s voyage back to
Shadowland.
Albert Goossens is going to sing in St.
James’s Hall on April 27 (Friday). Queens-
land’s young pianist, Winifred Burston, who
snatched a Berlin diploma from German
rivals before the war, will show her mettle
on a Chappell Grand ; and Lionel Lawson,
Sydney’s youthful fiddler, just back from
Europe, will make bis first appearance after
five years’ absence. Our own Kate Rooney
stars the event. Proceeds go to the 2nd
D.A.C. and 22nd Howitzer Brigade Com-
forts’ Fund. Plan at Paling s.
The Voluntary Workers’ Cafe (Moore-
street) has parted in tears with its presi-
dent. Mrs. C. Hay. 11l health forced the
change. Mrs. Hugh Mclntosh reigns in her
stead.
The French-Australian League in Sydney
is putting up a desperate struggle for exist-
ence. A big gathering in Macdonell House
the other afternoon made up its mind that
the efforts of Miss Soubeiran and the bees
who help her shall not cease. It is merely
a matter of £ g. d. Help flowed in to the
tune of over £2OO straight away; but that s
only a drop compared with the wants of our
over run Ally. Generous Australia will
help. Meanwhile Neville Mayman has
flung- down the bones of a scheme for a
July 14 celebration.
It’s the Repatriation scheme that is damp-
ing the French League’s hopes from a
street collection. But, in any case,, the
rattling cash-box at every street corner is no
longer to be trusted —except for our own
hospital needs, and then it’s a poor way of
meeting our obligations. There remains the
Town Hall and the concert that rakes in
£lOOO or so. The French affair, for the Gallic
Red Cross, organised by Yvonne Charvin, was
a star event which left £l6OO to mail to
Paris. But it would be hard to approach
that record in these leaner days. Still, half
the sum would be handy.
Ernest C. V. Broughton, city man and
once- M.L.A., is still very ill. Chiefly nerves,
which have kept him in a private hospital
all through 1917. Through the war-time
death-roll, Ernest Broughton has now only
one life between him and a fat English baron-
etcy. Yet his father, an Englishman who
married in Sydney long ago—she was a
daughter of the late Dr. Fattorini —was only
a fifth son of the then Sir Henry Delves
Broughton. By the way, Sydney’s early
Anglican bishop—the cleric who bustled the
architects of St. Andrew’s to finish the pile
during his reign—was a cousin of Broughton
pore. The bustling cut the building off 15ft.
in every direction, and threw the huge
pillars into discord with the abbreviated
ground space.
It doesn’t rain every day. Captain Arthur
Champion got blue skies for his excursion
to St. Mark’s (Darling Point) with Sylvia
Crace.
And there was a glint of sunshine, too, for
the wedding of Major Hubert Stokes, a South
Australian, not long back. His new O.C. is
Winifred Mary Heron, a Randwick girl. Her
uniform was briefly described as “a dream
by enthusiastic flappers who struggled on to
hassocks to view the event. Made of white
silk (d’you notice how taffeta, the rich rela-
tion of glace, is now the thing to support a
bride?), veiled in point lace, it was looped
with garlands of orange blossom. Point lace
is another important revival. The train
looked like the foam of white of egg. It was
really rucked tulle, about the most elusive
stuff to stick a needle through. Bridesmaids
Kathleen King and Evelyn Sandford wore
unusual frocks —a combination of diapha-
nous buttercup and blue gossamer over azure
silk. Colonel Bennett was second-best man,
and Lieut. Dodson looked after a grooms-
man’s duty. The cake was cut at the Went-
worth. ’Moon on the Mountains.
At last something moderately new for an
‘‘afternoon.” At the Gordon Craigs’ garden
party for the Newtown Free Kindergarten
30 college damsels danced on the lawn. Clad
in snow white, with caps of the same, they
tripped across the grass _to ancient dance-
measures such as the Vicar of W akefleld
would have approved. Two girl fiddlers sup-
plied the pretty old music. Then they
tripped a bit faster, for a deluge fell from
above, and Dr. Craig flung open “The
Crossways” doors to house the multitude.
Mrs. Wilfred Blacket was hon. sec. to this
aquatic gathering.
I wonder if George Crowley, the insur-
ance man who has been warning us that
we are fluffing it on paper, noticed the
luxury of dress at the late carnival of the
Nag? Talking of throwing money away
while hungry war-funds yawn, how about
the lady who buys a hundred-guinea ermine
coat! Not because she wants it in this
Indian-summer winter, but —well, it is sup-
posed to annoy the other lady who finds mere
tweed warm enough! Sydney is suffering
from peltitis at present. Every other
woman, during the early cold snap at Rand-
wick, sported a furry garment —anything
from £2O to £lOO in price. And it wasn’t
Mrs. Sheepfarmer who was the most expen-
sively rugged. The girl whose dad is going
to face big bills in 1918 — she's the one who
is splashing the money.
The Crown-street Women’s Hospital paid
its way last year. This phenomenon was
alluded to at the recent annual reckoning, in
connection with the appointment of a lady
secretary. As a hospital that isn't in a
chronic state of debt is as rare as Halley’s
comet, the Wonder is worth mentioning;
and Dr. Maekellar didn’t surprise us when
he gave out the long-expected news that a
Nurses’ Home is to be purchased out of the
money raised from the big matinee in 1913.
the Government subsidy swelling the total.
Another good example. D’Arcy S.
Ferguson, general manager in Maoriland
for Burns, Philp and Co., has handed in
his resignation (p>'o tem.), with the explana-
tion that lie intends to go in pursuit of
Fritz with the M.L. Field Artillery.
Mrs. Giblin, who died at Woollahra the
other day, was the widow of ? B. O. Giblin.
a Hobart doctor of the long ago. whose
brother. N. F. Giblin, also deceased, was
one of the official-assignees of our Bank-
ruptcy Court about the end of last century.
In the Speck the Giblins are about the
oldest and best known of the political and
sheep-raising families. Mrs. Giblin’s son.
Leonard, was killed while fighting with Aus-
tralian troops in Flanders on New Year’s
Day. and the mother never recovered from
the blow.
The Vagabonds’ Club had the mixed luck
to choose Anzac Night for a show at the
Repertory. But the Anzac Domain Buffet
will probably get its billiard-table out of the
profits, all the same.
A Westralian contralto, Rena Sara, now
in London, is going to wed a compatriot,
Lieut. St. Clair Brockway, R.F.A., from
Claremont, where his Dad used to be mayor.
The Westralian sojer has been gassed by the
gentle Hun in France; but he is getting on
nicely, thank you.
Big consignments of flat-irons go to the
Front in these latter days of the Big Fight.
So Commissioner Budden has been telling
Battalion dames. And I’ll be surprised if it
wasn’t Billjim that evolved this dodge of
blistering the little pests that housed in the
seams of his shirt and pants. Anyway, red
hot irons turn out to be even better than
insecticide.
Musical Mrs. D’Arcy Goldrick is tearing
up the roots she has grown at Manly the last
20-odd years, to transplant them to Mel-
bourne. She is going to put an only
daughter’s fine voice in the care of Melba's
Conservatorium, and means to live handy to
watch it expand.
Some of our girl-patriots have a grievance.
It’s caps and aprons—but mostly caps. “In
my box.” writes one young dear, “ not my
glory-box, I’ve got a collection of fancy caps
that are piling up nearly every week. Every
garden fete and sweet-selling campaign needs
—or does it need? —-absolutely new gear.
One wears a Breton cap to-day, an Italian
to-morrow, something else next week, and so
it goes on. The smartest show gets its own
ideas —very good some of them —but ire are
always buying the wherewithal for these
lightning changes.” And that’s how we
economise and Win the War.
A former Queensland woman writes: —
In the happy long ago, the Layton family had a
beautiful home at Kangaroo Point. Few hostesses
could rival the handsome Mrs. Mary Layton, whose
personal charm made her house one of Brisbane’s
most popular social centres. Up to the end, which
came in Sydney a week or two ago, she was one
of those rapidly-passing institutions —a beautiful old
lady.
Hungry hospitals are looking to the street
collections on Friday, May 4, to find some
butter for their bread. Prince Alfred Hos-
pital is turning away patients daily, accord-
ing to its annual report, because it cannot
maintain and furnish 100 more beds. The
huge haven for the sick now permits its
Medical Superintendent, Dr. Clayton, to take
a spouse, and provides a cosy house in the
grounds.
The moneyed 20tli Battalion cleared about
£B5O by their recent afternoon chivoo in the
grounds at Ascham. Poorer comforts’ funds
committees can only set their baits afresh,
and try to lure an Excellencv to uplift their
efforts to keep Billjim’s heels out of the
fresh air.
The 4th and 56th Battalion dames an-
nounce their resolve to collect a tin of sar-
dines or other canned edible from you
every Wednesday. The depot is at 16 Car-
rington-street.
St. Vincent’s Hospital fete —it lasted a
week —got more web-footed weather than the
gentle Sisters had arranged for. There were
intervals of sunshine, of course, but there
has been a feeling of golosh in the air all
fhis splashy month. Yet there’ll be a cosy
cheque when the matinee receipts are added
to the total.
How do you like the short veils edged
with fur? A friend who tried one of the
pelty flimsies says it blew into her mouth
that’s where they come to —and gave out a
slight flavor of rabbit-pie. Nothing like
imagination to help the world wag merrily.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


BLACK
and
WHITE
9 9
mmmmm
. :
:■ ■ '■ -
■ " •
-,X -7.
* n i m,: 7. “ ;
.
MM
m
es. v
?§®
m
-Ml
.
wm
; ' :
773
IBS
.%■ ...
isH
■ :
>l*
m
sm
m
U « ft
. - - ■■ ■
,j
km
m
mm
■
li
*>337.
.
*3
fltl
US
■737
N «
■-« ■
llfc
figg
7 : :
li
»
■
'*,3; *. „ v ...
mi
3^l
u
HR&
las
“THE BLACK WATCH.
WHISKY


“VICTORIA HOUSE'
■ tb
s«rkime i
< :
Have you tried it
lately ?
WOW l -
m\
m
Ms
m
m
vVv ■* ■■. <■ •■. : ■:■. *»& Xi a > «■ vggt'JW
*«9 ,*, * '♦* - «. * «*»*m i
'«t -*, < * * » * w$ XCkfi /
f .wig? j«?jhS«4 mu $« V
sdf
pj r t
MARKET
sdf
THE
GREAT ADVANCE
OF
WINTER
HAS COMMENCED.
Your First Line
of
Resistance
should be
A GOOD
Overcoat.
The “BRAYTON” OVERCOAT, in
Newest Overcoatings.
All Sizes Price 631-
get THE BEST
WHICH MEANS
A BUCKLEY S
Overcoat.
You can Order it by Mail.
MELBOURNE’S LOWEST PRICES,
ALWAYS.
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, April 23, 3017.
My Dear Yarrie. —
“Commencement” was a somewhat sad
event on Saturday. For the first time in
the history of Melbourne Uni. posthumous
degrees were conferred. The big company in
Wilson Hall stood as with much solemnity
Professor Gibson, Dean of the Faculty of
Arts, presented the name of Edward
Courtney Thomas for the degree of Master
of Arts. Professor Payne then presented the
name of William Major Olive for the degree
of Bachelor of Civil Engineering, of Eric
Craven Jowett for the degree of Bachelor
of Mining Engineering, of Walter Alan
Leckie for the degree of Bachelor of Elec-
trical Engineering. All these graduates died
on war service.
Wilson Hall was gorgeous. Chancellor
Madden looked like an Elizabethan in his
black and gold robes and fine lace frills.
Alongside him on the platform sat the more
brilliant Vice-Chancellor, Dr. MacFarland,
whose clothes were red and blue and much
trimmed. Next to him was John Grice in
plain clothes, like Governor Stanley. Gent-
help Conant, feahfully bored, sat at atten-
tion in a grey suit. Hennessy left his Gaud
Mayoral rabbit-skin at home. Piddington,
chairman of the Inter-State Commission —
once a Sydney High School teacher —added
his weight to the platform. Swinburne was
there wearing, among, other things, a very
proud smile. His daughter, nearly as tall
as her tall dad, was labelled B.A. for life
during the afternoon. Generals Sellheim and
Williams decorated the platform with khaki.
Williams must have worked hard of late,
for he went sound asleep during the long
speeches, resting peacefully in full view of
a crowded and envious audience while Gover-
nor Stanley exhorted everybody to live up
to ideals, and said a good word for technical
instruction, now knocking at the back door
of our bookish “shop.”
Professor Boyce Gibson, with a gold hood
on his red robe, introduced claimants for
Arts degrees. Baldwin Spencer wore his
most courtly air in introducing Science folk.
Little Law Professor Harrison Moore led
the Laws grads, in a mauve-bonueted cloak.
Major Hall, as a new Dean of Dentistry,
wore khaki instead of robes and saluted the
Chancellor instead of doffing a mortar-board.
Professor Ewart in a Henry VIII. hat
trotted in the new horse-doctors. One or
two of the learned peacocks wore Beefeater
hats. It reminded people of the absence of
brave little Springthorpe, now away at the
war. The rotund little medico always wore
a Beefeater hat at ’Varsity costume affairs.
When the solemnities were over the
assembly went off to the usual food-fight in
the Common Room —the great apartment
which was once the Museum and contained
the whale’s skeleton. Lady Stanley arrived
just in time to pick up his Ex. and take him
home. She had opened the Banool f§te at
Kew during the afternoon. (That show, by
the way, was a huge success, and the com-
mittee is still counting the piles of coin.)
After doing the opening job she had to go to
Camberwell before the vice-regal shover could
turn and speed into town for the University
parade.
Young Reggie Baillieu, a nephew of Big
Bill, has risen on the wings of fame and
brought down a Military Cross. The young-
ster, who is a son of Mrs. George Baillieu, of
St. Kilda, joined the first Australian Flying
Squadron, and left as a non-com. He got
his star and wings in Egypt, and won the
distinction as a flight-lieutenant in Pales-
tine.
Young Colonel Dare is to have a staff
appointment in Australia, and his wife is
hurrying home to join him ; Mrs. Dare was
Dorothy Moss, daughter of an indefatigable
war-worker. The Colonel has been on active
service since the beginning of the war, and
has raced up the promotion ladder from the
modest lieutenant rung.
Melbourne rejoices in the return of Major-
General J. G. Legge, the blue-eyed soldier
who left two years ago in succession to the
late General Bridges. He sings the praises
of Billjim whenever a speech is called for,
and welcome-home dinners have lately given
him numerous opportunities.
Meantime people note that there are still
plenty of military and recruiting jobs filled
by men who have never been at the Front.
In one or two cases, perhaps, the men can’t
be spared, though even that is doubtful;
but what a sorry business it is to give
recruiting jobs to men who can’t say “I've
done my bit, and now you go and do yours” !
With a few men like Legge back and in
command, things will perhaps change. You
couldn’t expect them to be satisfactory so
long as the administration consisted of men
who have not done their bit.
Henry Charles Osborne returned to Syd-
ney last week after more than a year's
active service. By the same boat returned
young Russell Keigwin, a kinsman of the
Fred McQuade family, who has been released
from military duty in England owing to ill-
health.
The medical Barrett family lost son
Keith last week in France. After serving
as stretcher-bearer with the first Anzacs, he
accepted an English commission and was
later on gazetted Captain. Dr. Barrett is
still in Egypt doing British Red Cross work.
A. .T. Noall, of the Stock Exchange, is
mourning for son Selwyn, killed in the big
battle of March 20.
That Mrs. Macleod who passed out at
Malvern a week or two ago was not, after
all, one of “the beautiful Cunninghame sis-
ters.” The deceased lady was Mrs. Norman
(a Norman creeps into every Macleod
family in time), whereas Miss Cunning-
hame became Mrs. Donald of the clan Mac-
leod, and still lives at Malvern. Apparently
she is the only one of the once almost
famous sisterhood to x’emain in Australia.
Mrs. A. L. Pearson, as well as other sisters
I mentioned the other day, lias been for
years resident in Scotland.
Marjorie Raphael, remembered in Mel-
bourne as the festive Ileinbockel, failed in
her suit against father-in-law for damages
on account of malicious prosecution. Mar-
jorie, whose husband, Norman Raphael, was
killed by the Huns, seemed to have a good
enough law case. Last year, she was pros-
ecuted for obtaining a lot of jewellery by
false pretences and selling it to pay her
hotel bill. The Court decided that, whereas
the young woman had married into the
Hebrewstocracy and had lived very expen-
sively with the husband, when he went into
camp, leaving her without means of support,
she was entitled to all the costly board and
jewels she could get on the strength of her
name and position. It was stated in Court
that her pa-in-law was at the back of the
criminal prosecution, and the wonder was
that the acquitted prisoner didn’t try her
luck at once with an action for damages
against the old man. Recently Melbourne
was being ransacked' for details of her
career as a spinster in this city before she
went to London to make her fortune. The
inquiries were made on old Raphael’s behalf,
apparently. Marjorie was up against the
power of money in her law suit, and money
won. The unwisdom of her! Had she
played her fine cards more carefully, she
would now be an interesting young widow in
clover.
Heather Keep, the sporty young flapper
who looks her best in Donegal tweeds and
knitted leg-wear, has been working with a
silver trowel and mallet. She laid the
foundation-stone of the Edward Keep Cot-
tages at the Old Colonists’ Homes in North
Fitzroy on rriday last, and the old people
flagged a path in her honor. Mamma gave
the afternoon tea.
Mrs. Richards (once Jessie Rowe) is a
pale little convalescent now. Her husband
plants in Colombo in times rof peace, but
as he is now on wireless duty in India he
had to.hurry off home without liis sick wife.
So Jessie is hanging on to her smart young
mother’s arm until she gets her health back.
Slim little Dorothy Schlesinger has added
two more trophies to the collection on the
sideboard. First she and her young brother
won a dancing competition at the Caulfield
f@te; now she has captured the ladies’
singles tennis championship at Geelong for
the third time.
Melbourne visitors to Sydney races sighted
the Also-Itanee and her baby. The infant
is the cutest little exhibit and quite like papa.
The trio have just turned up from the
U.S.A. and further. As a social sensation,
however, the Range’s baby had to give way
to the gorgeous trousseau of a Tongan prin-
cess which threatened to stop the traffic in
Pitt-street when windowed by the chiffon
store that built it. The crowd was so great
that the curtain had to be rung down to pre-
vent broken windows and police protests.
Adelaide’s mail-bag:—
A garden fete at the Higham Wiggs house at Aid-
gate attracted good money to the 3rd Engineers and
Flying Corps’ Comforts Funds on Saturday; so did
a croquet gymkhana at Prince Alfred College. Mrs.
H. 11. Wigg and Miss Jean Marten were responsible
for the success of the fete, and Mrs. Yv. F. Bayley
(wife of the headmaster of P.A.C.) and a committee
organised the gymkhana. The Comforts Shop's first
month’s takings, including donations and subscrip-
tions, totalled over £450. There are expenses, of
course, but these are cut to a minimum.
The Institution for the Blind will soon move
into the new premises which, when completed in June,
1915, were promptly handed over to the Military
Department for use as a hospital at a rental of Is.
per week, plus insurance. Since then over 1300
sick and wounded men have been lodged in the
building; but it has been unused for the last three
months, and the military authorities no longer require
it. Only those who know something of the w T ork of
the Institution, and are aware of the deplorably
cramped quarters in which it is carried on, can
realise what it meant to voluntarily forego the new
home for nearly two years.
The Military Cross has come to Lieut. Price, who
was in the Government produce department when he
enlisted in August, 1915. Two other brothers are
at the Front. Another followed in his father’s foot-
steps to Parliament.
Major Leane, who left here as Q.M.S. with the
10th Battalion, and was the first non-commissioned
officer to be promoted at Gallipoli, has gone over the
hill. After leaving the Peninsula he fought in
France, was three times mentioned in dispatches and
won the Order of the White Eagle of Serbia. Four
of his brothers have enlisted; one has been killed,
after being mentioned in dispatches; a second has
also been “mentioned” ; a third has won the D.S.O.
Dip the flag to that lot.
Another of the original 10th to be killed early
in the month was Lieut. W. P. Hoggarth, who was
badly wounded at the Landing, and again in France.
Also, G. W. Fordham has been notified of the death
of his youngest son, Roy, who got his commission
only last month. lie enlisted in the first weeks
of the war, came safely through the mess-up with
Johnny Turk, and won promotion in France. His
brother, who enlisted at the same time, died in
Egypt in February, ’l5.
The Minister of Industry’s two sons, the Blundell
boys, are reported wounded.
The Y.M.C.A. is losing Gen.-Sec. Wheeler, after 1C
years of solid work. He deserves a good deal of
kudos for the success of the Y.M.C.A. Army Depart-
ment in South Aus. Melbourne now gets the benefit
of his experience.
The Holtzes have left the Botanic Gardens and are
at American River, Kangaroo Island, where their son-
in-law, Mr. Hughes, has been residing for same
time.
The Government has bought six hundred acres at
Seaton (chiefly remarkable, as the guide books say,
for its golf links), and intends to parcel out the
land in small blocks to returned soldiers for pig-
raising, poultry-farming, etc. Volunteer working
brigades are wanted for fencing, building sheds and
odd jobs.
Agar Wynne’s only chick, Mary, sends
word from London that she is booked for
matrimony with one Richardson, who is
engaged on some war job in England.
Rumor asserts that Dad Richardson is a
Cotton King—or it may be “ring,” I don’t
know.
From “Rosna,” who might almost as weJl
live in an orange-grove as in London these
days■
Clive Currie, now a lieut. in the R.F.A. —he’s a
son of the Edwin Curries of Vic. —has an appoint-
ment with Joanna Cuirass, daughter of Mrs. Wil-
liam Culross, of Adelaide. Also Ronald Dickson,
captain, a son of the James Dicksons of Warrnam-
bool, will shprtly buy a special license for Frances
Henderson, a lassie who lives in a castle in Scot-
land ; and Lyle Blackman, who has a commission
in the A.1.F., is soon to go off with Vida Vickers, of
Melbourne.
There has been a more-or-less Maoriland wedding,
too. Benedict was Major Tuck, son of Sir Adolph
Tuck, who sports a baronetcy in this Isle’s semi-
peerage ; the Beatrice was Mrs. Kettle, widow of
Lieut. Desmond Kettle, of the Auckland Mounted
Rifles, and formerly Miss Nathan, of Auckland.
Other weddings finished and done with include
those of Major John Hamilton, of the one and only
army, son of Judge Hamilton, of Sydney, to a girl
whose people live at Faringdon in Berkshire. Major
John went off with the first motor-corps—the one
that was sent off from Egypt to England, and was
mislaid here for months. It was then that the
Major’s capture began. Major J. S. S. Anderson,
who captured many Germans and a Military Cross
(he comes from the Sydneyside), has changed Molly
McArthur’s name. Her father was formerly M.P.
for St. Anstell, and before that was a Sydneysider
in William McLinen’s firm. Brenda Hargrave, of
Woollahra Point, has also shared a wedding with
Lieut. C. M. Blackman, of the Navy.
Miss Redan, daughter of a former mayor
of Collingwood, has flitted over to Sydney
on matrimonial business. Her bridegroom-
elect is a flier, and will swoop from the blue
for the ceremony.
Irene, younger of the Kiddle sisters, has
been making family history at a furious
pace. She followed up a submarine-haunted
jaunt to Colombo by becoming engaged to a
young man called Bryant. He has tracked
down from the Western District, where the
promise was given, to take the congratulatory
smiles of his future relatives.
Verbrugghen, chief of A. S. Wales Con-
servatorium. spent a wild and beautiful
week with Edward Goll. They raised steam
in the piano, cranked up the violin, and
before they were through the welkin was
soaked and dripping with Beethoven. I
guess we’re going to have a musical treat
presently.
The Taits scored a packed house for the
opening of “Very Good Eddie.” The King’s
has never worn a more- festive appearance.
There was a fair sprinkling of pros. Bert
Bailey frowned menacingly from the d.c.
“Producer” Wenman, having seen the panto,
safely started in Sydney, took a ’busman's
holiday with his equally plump half, the
girl who once was Flossie Dickinson. Mrs.
Gertie Latchford Lupino watched hubby’s
stage antics from one of the lower boxes,
and was promptly recognised by the gallery.
The managerial pen was occupied by
Balsillie, the wireless man, and three khaki
youngsters. Sylvia Webb (Sylvia is wear-
ing pince-nez nowadays) and her doctor were
in the circle.
John Tait was away in Queensland and
Ted was chained to the cash-box in Sydney ;
so the family passion for starch was fed
by only Charles and Frank. Mrs. Charlie
was a little note of neutrality in the first
d.c. row. Mrs. John and Mrs. Frank, with
the inevitable Lynch family of well-wishers,
held the o.p. d.c. box. Mrs. Langlands
Thomson, Mrs. Monash, Mrs. Edward Dyson
and other first-nighters exhibited the re-
sources of their wardrobes, but none of them
could approach the raiment of young Eddie
Kettle’s female surroundings. The pink
pyjamas and other frocks of pretty little
Fayette Perry and the expensive gowns of
Lilian Tucker are not more smart than the
frilly things in which the luscious chorus
tries to keep warm. The girls wear some
white tulle and figured brocade confections
and a series of barbers-pole effects by a
Futuristic dressmaker, which should work
feminine tongues oif their hinges in a very
short while. Also the damsels are notable
for the wide variety ip the hues of their
crowning glories. A dozen of them achieve
the nearest thing to a rainbow of which a
clump of human craniums is capable.
Anzac Button Day (April 27) is the next
bushranging date. The Hennessvs are giv-
ing their blessing, and Frances M. Woolcott
is donating a lot of hard work as lion,
organiser.
Mrs. Arthur Harris, who was formerly
Carmen Pinsehof, has joined her husband
in Vladivostock, where he helps to sell milk.
The Melbourne girl was lately in Petrograd.
and through the kindness of the British Am-
bassador heard much wonderful music. She
had the luck to leave the capital before the
revolution began. Her next trip is going to
be with her husband to America.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


4
m,
a
r
v
■ .
ill
V
V
Iti
v : ...
as
.V - '
is!
, ' y %;; '%?. *
.«
$ &,
:
SfWliSg
I j
ill*
Vs
& ; ssc
S *
■- 4< A
t.
u \i
■ill v 3
i
M
«*, •••
1 ’ <:
;
jrakv
Gen Sir Douglas Haig
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Sir Douglas Haig is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set of \2 will be sent to any address on receipt of M~ postal-note, or 12 penny
(Commonwealth) stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a
set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD,, Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N,S,W,
fcalocrn/)
etc
lYaJoem <f (*•


sd
Support the Motherland’s Industries
—and your own Country’s Products
46
MW”*”
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are manufactured from pure Australasian wool —
in Leicester, England, by workpeople who have
inherited the art from generations of the world’s
best hosiery makers.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish'. See the Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eag, „
Aa 6o (f>
fsd
f
The TOPNOTCHScotch
: '5
&>,, '$ -SlyWHEN maairu if
l
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Murray”: “G.M.D.” (B. 15/2/M7) had
better buy a bag of bonedust for his Kerrisdale pear-
tree, and it might, in time, be in the same class as
twb which adorn the Molong district (N.S.W.).
They sprout right in the centre, of the little village
of Toogong. Measurements (specially taken last
week) are as follows: —Pour feet from the ground
No. 1 measures lift Sin. round. It then strikes off
into three branches of nearly equal size. One
measures 7ft. Sin. around. Skyward the vegetable
travels 68ft. No. 2 has the enormous girth of
12ft. 3in. three feet from the earth, but it reaches a
height of only GOft. Last year the two trees bore a
two-ton crop of splendid eating pears. My friend
Jos. Irvine, who came to live at Toogong 57 years
ago, says that the trees were big then.
* * * *
“V.”: The “winter sleep” of snakes is a
delusion. I have seen a black snake ploughed up
ill midwinter a squirming, wriggling mass of
devilry, very far from asleep and really anxious to
attach its business end to anything not fang-proof.
In another instance, while beetle-hunting on
Monaro (N.S.W.) in August, W. W. Proggatt, Gov-
ernment Entomologist, disturbed a brown snake
MODEST.
MAGISTRATE: “Have you anything to say before I pass sentence on you?”
PRISONER: “No, per 'Onor—except that it takes very little to please me.”
wintering under a sheet of stringy-bark. It was
so delighted that it offered to shake hands. On
bright winter days, even on icy Monaro, snakes
often sun themselves, quite alert, just outside their
dormitories. The serpentine eye, being lidless, can-
not betoken its owner's somnolence, and being also
a fixture gives the snake a limited range of vision.
But the nasal apparatus is keen; hence snakes
easily detect the presence in barns, houses, hay-
stacks, etc., of the delectable mouse.
“H.V.E.”: Re “Yatti’s” copperhead snake
of the North Coast. I think it differs from the
copperhead of the tablelands, common, for instance,
on Monaro (N.S.AV.). This variety is also known as
the “superb” snake, and may be distinguished from
the brown by the large size of its scales, or, more
correctly, belly plates. Each of these plates is
attached to one of the enormous number of ribs, and
they enable the snake to do everything except fly or
progress on a smooth surface. The Monaro copper-
head grows to about 6ft. in maximum length, and is,
of course, deadly ; but he is far less aggressive than
the brown or tiger. He shows up occasionally about
salt lakes on the South Coast of N. S. Wales, but is
rare in that quarter, while the black snake with
carmine-red underparts is common. I have also seen
odd examples of this species (full-grown) with the
belly greyish-white—a mere color-variation, like the
blue and brown groper, although the brown is usually
a female fish. The “superb” snake is light coppery-
brown in coloring.
“Paul Tardent” : It is easier for a small
team of six, 10 or 12 shearers to show a big aver-
age than for a bigger shed to do it. While admiring
(being an old shearer) the fine tallies quoted, I
will give an instance of a good average for one day
by a large team of men. About 22 years ago I
was picker-up at Burenda, near Augathell'a (Q.).
There were 60 shearers on the board. On one day
they shore 8500 sheep, or an average of 170 per
man. The drummer, Jimmy Wholey (he was just
a learner then), shore 135. Jimmy Power (since
killed in Boer War) was ringer with 262. J. Esau
Searle (now of Westbrook, Q.) was next with 247.
Big Bill Perkins (since dead at Klondyke) and Dan
Hogan had 226 each to their credit. Jack Phillips
(never known to swear) shaved 225 ; Paddy Power
(Jimmy’s brother, and a splendid draughts player),
210; Jack Power (another brother), 221; Jack Doyle
(now of Charlton, near Toowoomba), 218; Tom
Greedy (retiring alderman of Toowoomba, and a
clean shearer), 207 ; Will Sinclair, 204 ; Joe Carlish
(now of Pittsworth, Q.), 203; Andy Greedy (Tom’s
brother), 200, neat; Jack Perkins (big Bill’s
brother), 199; Tim O’Connor, 196; Jack Frawley
(fine step-dancer and judge of horseflesh), his first
shed, 175. The Burenda sheep were good cutting,
but, all the same, this was a good performance.
While second to none in my admiration of Jack
Howe’s great 321 (lambs) tally, with the shears,
allow me to contradict “E.S.S.” when he quotes
Howe as having shorn 337 full-fleeced sheep with
the machines. The correct tally was 237, a very
good performance indeed. Jimmy Power’s Barenya
performance of 315 with machines stood on its own _
for many years. I am told Harry Livingston and *
Dan Cooper have equalled or excelled it within the
last few years. The writer’s best during .the 10
years he dabbled in shearing was 163 wethers at
Doondi. Though not sensational this entitles him
to an opinion on the subject. The prettiest and
most artistic shearer 1 ever saw was “Ginger’’
(Jim) Hoctor, of N.S.W., who was in Queensland
one or two seasons. I saw him at Yarronvale
(Paroo River) in 1896, and he ran pretty rings
around first-class shearers like long Jim Watson and
Mick (now Major) Shanahan, of Roma. Paddy
Palmer (Roma), Fred Zimmerlo (Toowoomba) and
several others were good, but Hoctor was the daddy
of them all for style and effectiveness, and was a
pleasure to watch.
THE INTRO.
“What you new-pfeller look at? Never see a lady before— eh?”
“Gang Gang” : While shooting at Bocon-
• noc, Monaro (N.S.W.), I wounded a black duck,
which waddled off along the dry watercourse and
hid under a flat rock. Lying down I could just
reach its wing, which I grabbed and began to pull.
To my surprise the bird seemed to be pulling too.
. Twice I got it to the edge of the rock and twice it
was drawn back. Getting impatient I held tight and
gave a heave. This time I brought it fairly out.
Holding the other wing was a black snake —a big
fellow even for Monaro. I was quite satisfied to
let him have it.
“Flinderino”: Can any Abo-liar explain
this? In some parts of the goldfields country iri
Westralia when an old tree is felled the timber-
getters invariably find the hollows or crevices in the
timber filled or partly-filled with stones. A curious
feature is that sometimes no stones are to be found
on the surface of the land thereabouts, nor within
some miles. The popular explanation is that the aborig-
inals used to throw the metal into the holes when
locating opossums and other food. But then it is
stated that no tree-dwelling animals inhabit that
particular part of the country. Besides, it doesn’t
sound like black brother to load himself up with
road-metal to carry any distance.
“D.F.”: Volcanoes went out of fashion
long ago in the Speck, as they did in the rest of
Australia, but there is still a warm spring or two
as reminders that things were hotter in the 'good
old days. The best known of them is at Kimberley,
on the N.W. Coast, where the water fills a
pool at a steady temperature of about 75
degrees F. In the winter, especially on a frosty
morning, a little cloud of steam rises from it.
There is another warm spring near Evandale, but
it’s away off the track.
“dial”: In ’O4 I was cockying at Pine
Grove, in the Mallee, and on going to feed-up one
night before hitting the feathers I was amazed to
notice that the stable supports had suddenly in-
creased in diameter from 9in. to 18in., were on the
move . and were illuminated with countless tiny
sparks. Each post was covered with mice. That
was the beginning. We used to tie the nosebags
right up to the eyes of the horses, but it was of
no avail; the little devils seemed able to get through
the eye of a needle, and the poor neds were prac-
tically starved. We endeavored to combat the
plague by placing on the floor of the stable half a
dozen bags with a handful of wheat in each. In
a jiff these would be half full of the squeakers, and,
although it was but the work of an instant to tie
the top of the sack and put the rodents through the
ordeal by fire, the remedy was just, as effective as
attempting to beat the Huns with the Censor's pencil.
However, the unwelcome visitors disappeared as
mysteriously as they came. Hi force at, midnight,
daylight revealed no sign of them. On. the outward
journey they encountered a bag of chaff on which
was a slumbering swaggie, who when he awoke
wanted to meet the blank,v cove who had sneaked the
chaff out of a bloke’s bed. By the way, why is it
that cats won’t look at the pests when they come
in these waves?
“E.S.S.”: If our song-birds could be
heard in competition, there would probably be no
more than a couple that could seriously challenge
the butcher-bird. The magpie, more familiar
and less sparing of its glorious carol, would be the
strongest rival. It has the more powerful song, too,
and sings with more joy and persistency, but the
mellow sweetness of the butcher-bird’s rich flute-like
notes would place it at the top of the list by just
about one mark. There are several species of the
genus (Cracticus') , and each has its “butcher’s
shop,’’ impaling its splinters, thorns and
twigs, from which it eats the food at leisure.
Though they sometimes prey on smaller birds, all
GARRY ON!
THE KID: “That larst lot ev sossidges yon
sold farver nearly killed pore ole
gran'mar!”
SKEWER : “And I s'pose the little story is
that father wants his money back —
eh?”
THE KID: “No charnce! He wants annuver
pound ev sossidges!”
merit protection, not only for their charming flow
. of song but for their usefulness in destroying ver-
min. A few butcher-birds would be very valuable
where the wheat-stacks are just now being under-
mined by mice. The common species (C. destruc-
tor) is 'the finest singer and the most widely dis-
tributed. Its delicious liquid notes are perhaps,
more impressive and memorable because it sings
chiefly in the mellowing autumn .‘fbason, whereas
most other birds sing their best in spring and
summer.
(Continued on page 2-1.)
THE GRIEVANCE OF GREEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mclvew possessed a poultry yard,
And fondly watched his chickens grow.
But this he thought extremely hard —
Whatever fondness he might show,
His hens abroad
For roost and board
Were easily induced to go.
Within a month he’d lost a score.
And then Dave Green, at fever heat,
Arrived and smote him —smote him sore—
And threw an object at his feet,
A bony frame
Resembling game,
Arrayed in rags of chicken meat.
Said Green: “Now, look! This here’s the third
Old hen I’ve had of yours, McKew !
There ain’t a scrap upon the bird
A hungry crocodile could chew.
Call that a meal!
I’ll never steal
Another blanky thing from you! ”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


David Jones’
“ORIENT”
SOFT FELT HAT 1416
Newest Autumn shades of slate,
steel and medium grey, with black
or self- silk band and bow at side
or back. Made of pure fur felt
and fitted with grease-repelling
head-band.
All men’s sizes
14/6
Other Standard
“Orient” Values.
“Orient” Striped Ceylonette
Pyjamas
“Orient” Golf or Tunic . Shirt 4/6
“Oriei.T- Calf 800t5.... 21/-
“Orient” Suit Case 30/G
“Orient” Reody-to-Wear Suit 45/-
“Orient” Made-to-Measure Suit 84/-
We Pay Carriage.
David Jones Ltd.
OPP. G.P.O. - -SYDNEY.
Leviathan Overcoats
sdf
sdf
sd
ORDER
BY
POST.
m
WE
PAY
CARRIAGE.
'% i
' y :■■■■.
mm
mm
1083. —G arbinette
Raincoats (as illus-
trated ). In the latest
Fawn colorings; with
storm Collar as shown;
deep vent at back ; lined
throughout with Check
Plaid. Light and warm.
Proof against
Wind and
Rain
55 1-
Better qualities in all the
most fashionable shades
—step or storm Collar,
42/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-,
63/- to 84/-
11 Til. —English Tweed
Overcoats, single-
breasted styles (as illus-
trated). In Brown,
Dark and Medium Grey
British Twesds. Half-
belt and vent at back.
Strap cuffs; Raglan or
s e t-i n sleeves,
Cosily lined
throughout
42|-
Better qualities, 55/
57/6, GO/-, 67/6, 70/
75/- to 110/-
1 1 B 3.—D o u b 1 e-
breasted Tweed Over-
coats (as illustrated).
In Fancy Grey and
Brown English Tweeds of
soft, fleecy finish. Ilalf-
belt and deep vent at
back. Thor-
oughly well
lined
50/-
In hotter qualities, 55/
C7/6, 75/-, 84/-, 95/
to 120/-
State Chest (over Vest), inside Sleeve anti Height.
WRITE FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
Leviathan
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
No. 11 Grinder, 22/6.
Attaches to No. 1 or
No. 2 Clipper.
No. A Shear, £l.
For long-haired
Ponies.
EVERY HORSE Sh ß°e u,d
CLIPPED SOON
Shearing
Attachment
Tits
No. 1 or
No. 3
Clipper,
*3/15/-.
m
Men who have made a life study of the horse are
agreed that clipping is most beneficial and humane.
The World’s Favorite Machine for Clipping
It is found in the best stables in every country. ,
From time to time interesting pictures appear in
Australian weeklies of horse-clipping at the Front, clipping
the natives’ hair in Egypt, clipping cows at the Sydney
Agricultural Show, etc., and in every instance you will find
the machine illustrated IS A STEWART. The Stewart
represents more than 90% of all clipping machines in use.
You can’t go wrong on a Stewart machine. It is
simple in construction, easy to operate, and will last for
years.
The Stewart factories are owned and controlled by one
of the oldest British firms in existence, and the product is
distributed direct to the storekeepers throughout the world
through the “Cooper” branches. This ensures your being
able to-obtain any necessary part of a Stewart machine at
any time without delay.
Write your name and address in the blank below,
tear out the advertisement, and mail it to-day. We will
send you, post paid, the Stewart Illustrated Catalog. It
gives some interesting facts on the clipping of horses, and
illustrates a complete line of Stewart machines and various
attachments for same.
e*Hc»T
•r; y
■
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd., 129 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Please send me your Catalog on the clipping of horses and cows,
and illustrating Stewart Machines and Accessories. Also name of
nearest Storekeeper from whom I can secure Stewart Products.
'Same
A ddrvss
Veterinary Dental Float, 27/6.
STEWART
No. 3
CLIPPER.
£3/5/-
Chain Pabte, %/-
Grinder Paste, 3/-.
STEWART No. 1 CLIPPER, 45/'


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
MEGGITT’S
m
fsd
AEG
par(|
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT'S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
V.'
%
K
$
Is
0?,
X
\
'll
IV
' JP
Pigs, calves, neifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on a daily ration of linseed-oil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the butter-fat test by One
Point.
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
carry away all the prizes. Mr. H. McD. Livingstone,
liosehill Farm, Ivingaroy, at the 1916 show won
seven first prizes with a pen of calves and won the
three butter-fat tests with a pair of Meggitt Linseed-
oil meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD.,
ft
y
Unseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers, Parramatta, N
S. Wales.
‘“Arrinji”: The Gulf disease which horses
suffer from in Carpentaria is also prevalent
in Kimberley (W.A.). “Barcoo” in a recent
Bulletin said that the sufferers sweat. No; on
the contrary, the skin refuses to do its job, and care
must be taken when approaching a waterhole, or
the moke will do the submarine act and nothing
will be visible save his ears and the top of the
Pack. Another horse complaint is the dreaded
Kimberley disease, from which hundreds of
horses die yearly. Jt is allied to the Queensland
Birdsville disease; "and is said to be caused by
horses eating rank tropical grasses, which cause
impaction of the stomach and breed worms that
eat the lining of the stomach. A kind of paralysis
of the brain also attacks the victim, and for days
he will wander aimlessly about, walking through
camps or over anything in his way. He generally
winds up by getting hung up in the fork of a tree.
This complaint is also known as the Willie Wanders,
and a fortune awaits the man who can find a cure.
* * * *
“Agricola”: “Quidam” (B. 22/3/T7)
asks for the name of the drug in the century plant.
W. T. Fernie, M.D., in his hook, “Herbal .Simples,”
published in 1914, say's that it is crythrocentaurin,
a bitter compound. The vegetable belongs to the
■ Gentian order of plants. The name comes from
Chiron the Centaur, who was • considered an autho-
rity on vegetable virtues. I know that a decoction
of this weed is a splendid tonic, particularly for
the liver and stomach. The folk of German descent
in this (Hamilton, Vic.) district use it for them-
selves and their cattle.
Mellisli Reef”: The sea snake found by
11. A .K. (B. 22/3/’37) might easily reach Bermagui
. (N.S.W.) per favor of the current setting down
from tropical waters. “JT.V.K.” explains how the
yellow-bellied species lives. Does his black-and-
yel low-bellied cobber exist the same way? I have
seen the latter 100 miles from anywhere, off the
Gulf of Carpentaria, steering east-nor’-east, appar-
ently for New Guinea. I have also seen specimens
between the Barrier and Port Moresby. A sight
to be remembered is a fleet of them Steaming in
close formation past a vessel at anchor in some of
the small harbors in the Islands on a dark night
making a beautiful phosphorescent glow.
* * * *
“AVart”: “Wandi” (B. 22/2/17) says
that the crow can be distinguished from the raven
by the color of its eyes. Now, in Tasmania, the
white-eyed and the brown-eyed varieties are found
together, and I believe they are the same species,
brown-eyed while young and white-eyed when old
J here s one thing sure—brown eyes or white, he is a
champion egg-stealer. He will fly into a poultry-
yard, spear an egg with a long black beak, fly awav
to a suitable spot and drop it. Then he alights,
takes a mouthful of egg, throws his head back to
swallow it, and says, “Caw, that’s good • have
another one with me.” Cousin of his, the crow-
shrike or black magpie, is one of the few birds found
on the Tasmanian West Coast. He has a voice some-
thing like the clang of a tramcar gong. At some of
the minmg-camps he is quite tame, hanging about
the houses for scraps. During the winter lie gets
lat, and often finds his way to the pot. He makes
a good change of tucker, too. Another cousin, the
black jay, is beginning to make himself a nuisance
io the apple-grower. Although one of the noisiest
birds in the bush, a flock of them will float down to
an apple-orchard as silently as a black cloud, always
OUT OF HIS TURN.
THE PRIVATE: "'Ere, git up! Privates 'are
goiter die before the General."
leaving a sentry in the highest tree in the neigh-
borhood. Before the orchards came into existence
the black jay was almost entirely insectivorous.
Plenty of items on the bush menu are less satisfac-
tory than the black jay, though his flesh when cooked
is not as white as chicken.
TOO MUCH TALK ABOUT THOMPSON.
THOMPSON: “Good morning."
SWAG : “ Morn-in ’!"
THOMPSON: “ Travelling?"
SWAG: “Travellin'!" (With sudden ferocity) “Think I’m a Hanky statue?"
“G4O Level”: Talk about queer relations.
Sommer was a little Cousin Jack, and when a chap
cleared out with his wife he took it quite calmly.
A bit later he went to the city for a spell, and when
he came back he said cheerily: “Damme, it’s funny;
the first bloke I run across down there was me
missus's step-husband.”
“Daybreak”: Has any cow specialist ever
struck anything like this? Brooks, of Smithton
(las.), has a Jersey heifer that, although she has
never had a calf and has never been mated, is
giving 3i quarts of milk per day. The animal
started to produce the fluid when 11 months old
and when the acid was applied to same it returned
a test of 4.88.
. *■. * * *
“H.Y.E.”: Twenty years'ago I occasion-
ally found that minute and rare marsupial, the fly-
ing mouse, in dense tussock-grass about certain
swamps in the Bega district of N. S. Wales. These
little animals float from tussock to tussock in the
same manner as flying squirrels and ring-tailed
opossums aeroplane from branch to branch, always
descending, and supported while in the air by
webbed feet and arms. The splendid ground parrot,
mantled in vivid green and with a scarlet head-spot,
then dwelt in the same quarter, but both bird and
mammal have apparently gone. Foxes no doubt
assisted in their extinction, as did the poison-pot of
the rabbiter. The female flying-mouse is provided
with a pouch and breeds its young similarly to
kangaroos and wallabies.
* * * *
“Buzfuz”: When far from dental aid
suffer not the agony of an aching hollow tooth if
there is a horse handy. Scrape away the hard sur-
face of the corn which is found on the inside of the
leg near the knee until the soft, pithy part of the
growth is disclosed. Place the smallest particle of
the pith in the hollow tusk and immediate relief
will follow.
* * * *
“8.D.” Up in the Vie. Wimmora and
Mai lee country they have given up trying to esti-
mate the number of mice caught round the wheat-
stacks. They take them away in drays and run
them over the weighbridge. Minyip holds the record
so far; in two nights the kerosene-tins gathered in
1 ton lewt. lqr. 141 b.
“Bucca” : The grunter is running Straw-
berry close on the N.S.W. North Coast. Item of
glad news from a local paper (17/3/’l7) :
To James So-and-So. Sir, —I wish to acknowledge
your services to my pigs, affected by the disease
known as rickets, which I now declare to be per-
fectly well. By publishing this the public may re-
ceive a benefit. —(Sgd.) Alfred E. Thatsme, Seelands.
* * * *
“Gang Gang” : Judging by the description
given by “Sarto,” the bird which disturbs his
beauty-sleep by its monotonous call is the bronze
cuckoo. It is the smallest of our cuckoos and is
rather rare. Its call is somewhat similar to’ one of
the notes made by the red-eyed chough (black
magpie) or the melancholy cry of the curlew, but
not so loud or long as the latter.
“Bung” : The rainy season of 191 G replaced
with an extensive but shallow sheet of muddy
water the plains of saline dust which in the drought
times formed the bed of Lake George, under the
western foot of the Gourock Range. Along with the
moisture there arrived in flocks every variety of sea-
gull with which the coast abounds. Now, as Lake
George is 70 miles in direct line from the sea and
the mountains intervene, I want to ascertain what
knowledge led these birds to their drowned grass-
hopper banquet?
CHOIR PRACTICE.
CANTANKEROUS BASSO: “ What sort of
leader do 'ee call thyself? 'Ere’s we sing-
ing fower-fower time and thee slicked up
like a great fool beatin’ three in a bar.”
THE LEADER: “Look ’ere, Billy Bilcock ,
there's only wa. av we two leader of
this choir, and 'tedden thee, so take
and hold thy crake, for I’ll bate what
time I mind to.”
“Leo Lear”: The coastal scrubs of
Queensland are the home of numerous birds never
seen except by the keen observer. Among them the
rifle-bird, which inhabits the densest parts, is one of
the most interesting and beautiful. These birds are
Australia’s representative in the birds of paradise.
The mature male is a glorious thing. His plumage
;s a velvety-black and metallic-green or steel-blue.
The chest is purple. There is no mistaking the
note when you hear it, though it is hard to describe,
being a sort of whirring screech. Once or twice,
after infinite patience, I have seen the gentleman
displaying his burnished suit before the eyes of Mrs.
Rifle. On a fairly-high bare limb he advances and
retires, gyrates and loops in the best quadrille style,
showing all his garments to their finest advantage.
One peculiarity about these birds is that they almost
invariably decorate their nest with a cast-off snake
skin, generally of the carpet variety, although
“carpet” is sudden death to birds.
Leo Lear”:. The imported elm may have
its failings, but I have never known it guilty of
dropping - limbs unexpectedly as described by
‘■F.N.T.” (B. 15/3/’l7). For proficiency in this
unpleasant art I present the prize to . some Aus-
tralian trees. Among the worst is the red-gum.
He’ll stand up intact in a roaring gale and then
drop a ton of wood in a calm, clear night. Almost
as bad are the bTue-gulm and the white-gum.
Spotted-gum, blood-wood and ironbark should also
be shunned by campers. Mind, I don’t refer to sap-
lings of any of the above, but old, bearded sinners.
If you must camp under a tree choose a wattle,
blackwood or any of the Australian pines. For my
own part, and I’ve done my share of camping, if no
shrubs are available give me the open every time.
I had my lesson on the Upper Murray, when a giant
red-gum deposited half its roof so close to a line of
tents that every lighted lamp was extinguished by
the draught.
• * • *
“Barcoo”: The roll-call for shearing is
just about to start. The boss, looking like a smart
cavalry officer, and the shed overseer have motored
to the shed store, where we 120 shearers and
“loppies” have mustered. Shearers first, and .each
man who has had his monniker down for a stand
signs the agreement binding him to be of good
behavior, to eschew booze, to do the Job in a work-
manlike manner, and to obey the lawful commands
of the boss of the board. Five shearers are missing
and the boss of the board (“the Bloke” is how we
refer to him) casts a glance over the expectants who
have not had their names down. Up goes his finger
and the man pointed to steps out to sign his “death
warrant.” The Bioko knows us all,, and scans the
crowd for the faces of those who have made trouble
or are incapable. They have no chance; he never
forgets. Then the shed-hands, ranging from the
youth of 14 to the decrepit battler—a motley crew—
are called up. The “big boss” seems to know
almost everyone, mostly by Christian name. The
shearers immediately they are “fixed” proceed to
elect their cook -out of the two “babblers” who are
contesting for the remunerative job, 6s. per head per
week. They both have their offsiders with them.
“Scotty the Wrinkler” wins easy, and hits the
station store quick with his ration order. He’ll
have supper ready for his own 40 and 40 besides in
four hours’ time. At daylight the engineer will blow
ali hands out of bed, and 30 minutes after coffee
and a junk of brownie, 40 hungry (-for-tallies)
shearers will be standing ready for the second gong.
Meantime the wool-classer will have allotted the
work amongst the wool-room men, while eight boys
are ready to pick up the fleeces as the barbers peel
them off. The gong goes > for breakfast, and 80-odd
appetites are met by two smiling cooks and everv-
thing goes well with the world.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Ever consider the discomforts
of a horse compelled to feed with his breathing,
apparatus buried in a nosebag full of dusty chaff?
They must be considerable, especially
in hot weather. The other day T saw
an idea for giving Dobbin his midday
bite so superior to the nosebag that,
after the publication of particulars in
this par., I confidently expect to see
a revolution in horse-feeding methods.
Here’s the recipe. Get a piece of
bagging 2ft. 6in. or so square. Sew
in four pieces of wood round the
edges. To one end of two of them
attach short straps, and, to the other
ends, longer straps. Buckle the short
straps to the collar or hames at the
height- the feed is required, and the
longer ones (long enough to let the
contraption hang out level) higher up
on the same piece of harness. The
pieces of wood hold the bag out, and
the result is a small feed-trough from
which Nugget can extract the last oat
without nearly breaking his neck and
half-suffocating himself in the process.
The driver of the team was enthu-
siastic about the idea, remarking
that as well as being kinder to the horse it was
handier in every way than the nosebag.
**■ * ' *
“Chink”: “E.S.S.” is not alone in his
yearn for decent names for Australian birds (B.
22/3/’l7). It is a subject that has long been
worrying those rational birdologists who really wish
to popularise their favorite study. In recent times
a good many of the harsher bird-names have been
blotted out, but there still remain dozens of objec-
tionables. Taking, them at a glance, those that call
loudest for the sponge are (1) indelicate titles
(black-vented ground-bird, blue-bellied lorikeet and
chestnut-rumped ground-wren, for instance) ; (2)
names that a youngster could not struggle with
successfully (black-faced cuckoo-shrike, white-shoul-
dered caterpillar-eater, yellow-bellied shrike-tit) ; (3)
names that are no assistance to identification. On
this last point, isn’t it better to drop “white-plumed
honeyeater” in favor of “chiekowee” (the call of
the bird), and “pied bell-magpie” in favor of
“currawong” (also a call) ? Incidentally, it is
undeniable that old-world influence has made this
name-hunting job no easy one—our. “magpie” is not
a magpie, our “chat” not a chat, our “robin” not a
robin—otherwise “E.S.S.” might have had a few
suggestions to offer along with his criticisms.


- s?
DUNLOP
MINING
ENGINEERING Coots
Stand alone for
Quality and Price.
EVERY CLASS OF RUBBER GOODS
STOCKED OR MADE TO ORDER.
TENDERS AND SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane, Wellington. Christchurch
-i-
HOVEON!
YOU’LL FIND
NOTHING LIKE
DUNLOP
POLICE HEELS
FOR.
EASY WALKING
t » #
OBTAINABLE ALL BOOT STORES
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
WELLINGTON ANDCHRJSTCHURCH
'Reputation
I
&
V-
O (/Avi
%
<-Qp
Sfias*,
X
7,
U
/
m
I
Iplli
«
m
gnn^
Hi
/ ' 9s
Si
BSHtt^saS
-.Vr
SI ; £ *
<r
HR
. Hi
&
m
V\-« .
: '. .-
mm
ffiH
*£#
HP
"<•/
»8?B
ii
H
£ m
■.;,-,s
HH
saffr
!
f
Sis
sis&
PS I
WSgffiS
HH
i s isi
KM
j a
&S« BS
®§b!
*v*%v
sSißa
as.- -
«w 3
nUMLQ
t
Motorist: “The Tyre with a reputation—eh? ”
Our Envoy : “ Yes, Sir, and won by its high quality, splendid service and
reasonable selling price.”
Motorist: “Talking of Prices—l see some importers making claims for
superior quality to account for their exceptionally high price
in this country.”
Our Envoy: “Yet the same cover sells at nearly half the price—say in
New York, which rather explodes the super-quality idea.
Anyway, Sir, claims don’t build up a 20 years’ reputation
for giving the public a fair return for their money.”
Motorist: “No, time finds out most things, and in my case it has proved
that WHITE TREAD
DUNLOP TYRES
have no superior for Service and Tyre Economy.”
Lady: “Loyalty with profit—eh?”
Our Envoy: “Exactly, Madam!
7
DUNLOP
ITYRES
yare easily the...
-STRONGEST and
ft BEST WEARING
/ t in Australasia.
/STOCKED IN STUDDED.
/-HI*VY" STUDDED,
, GROOVED & RIBBED Patterns
Obtainable all Agents.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES arid N.Z.
DUN LOU
TYRES
OUTWEAR
ALL OTHERS
Unequalled for
QUALITY \v
and PRICE.
M *
beware of
IMITATIONS.'
DUNLOP RUBBER CO , Ml Slatts 4 HI.
tj


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That makes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Cofd ( but ttye
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to make any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS.
22
S'
t.am
r<~
w
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney, N.S.W. ■Wellington, N.Z.
13.
Business, Robbery, etc
‘‘Snell”: My friend who is a sub-
urban candidate and a Hebrew with all the
marks, has beeh explaining to me how inad-
visable it is to associate oneself with an
unknown dog. The dog in question attached
itself to Blank several weeks ago, and per-
mitted him to call it Bruno. It was an
intelligent and affectionate animal of the
general collie effect. One evening, about a
fortnight back, Blank went forth to address
an open-air gathering on the burning ques-
tions of the day, and Bruno trotted with him.
Things went well enough for IS minutes,
when Blank discovered an unusual diversion
in his audience. Bruno was the occasion of
the prevailing levity. He had discovered a
vacant herring-tin, and with this in his
mouth was dodging most energetically among
the electors, obviously inviting eleemosynary
contributions. He poked the tin at every
man, wagging his tail, and rattling the
offertory with unmistakable, intention. Catch-
ing on the enemy yelled: “He’s making a
collection for Yiddo’s expenses!” and
pennies were dropped in. In less than a
minute Bruno’s tin was full; then the
wretched dog ran deliberately to the
anguished politician on the stand, emptied
the collection-box at his feet, and went glee-
fully to work again. Blank knows now that
unwittingly lie had come into possession of
the lost dog of a blind mendicant, lie knows
it because the blind mendicant is threatening
to sue him.
* * * »
“Julius Caesar” : Maori laud shipping men
don’t joke with the daily papers about the
submarine menace. They know better. The
Rotorua, one of the finest passenger-ships
ever built for the M.L. trade, 11,500 tons, is
now at the.bottom of the. English Channel.
Her cargo was worth a quarter of a million.
The Kaipara fell to a raider. The Ashburton
followed, bringing the loss of the N.Z. Ship-
ping‘Co. up to 28,875 tons. The Common-
wealth and Dominion line (the old Tyser
establishment) has'lost the Port Nicholson
(late Makarini). tin? Port Adelaide and the
Mariri, a total of 23,124 tons. Of the Sliaw-
Savill fleet the Tokomaru met her fate in
the channel. The Clan Mactavish, which
left Wellington heavily laden about a year
ago. was sunk by an Atlantic raider after
a gallant fight with a single gun. The old
Aorangi, once a ’Frisco flier, and the Union
Co.’s representative, Ilaupiri, are other com-
panions of the thousands of keels that men
laid with pride and other men destroyed in
their madness.
* * * *
“F.N.T.”: Much of the machinery used
on Australian farms is of a very simple kind
and therefore very easy to look after and
keep in working order. But the farmer, him-
self a simple machine, doesn’t worry, as a
rule. When he buys a new chaffcutter, for
instance, be doesn’t bother to build a shed
for it —he just leaves it where it stands,
after the chaff is cut, ready for the next time
he wants it. The fact that much of it is
made of unpainted wood, naked metal and
rope and canvas, doesn’t interfere with his
sleep. The wind bloweth where it listeth
and the rain, hail, frost, dew and sun do
their durnedest, and when the time is ripe for
more chaff-cutting the simple farmer finds
that his simple machine is ripe, too —ovei'-
ripe and rotting. This sort of farmer, as
every farmer knows, is f.a.q. and not an
exception, so it' isn’t always the drought
that causes insolvency in the backblocks.
The other day a bunch of jumbueks from
George Chirnside's Melbourne suburban
squattage at Werribee Park averaged 425.
9d. in. the saleyards. They were big sheep,
certainly, but it is hard for any retail butcher
to quote bargain rates, even for the meat off
an “elephant,” when the price for single
animal runs into guineas.
“Simon”: Now that we have taken to
importing wattle-bark it might be profitable
to remember that the indigenous pines of
Australia, notably the black pine, not only
produce a thicker bark but also, under
chemical test, a greater percentage of tan-
nin, than does the wattle. Baker and
Smith, of the Sydney Tech. Museum, in their
“Pines of Australia,” set down the tannin
content as something like 30 per cent. Com-
pare this with the 10 per cent, record of
mangrove bark! It is only within the. last
year or two that pine-bark has been given
a trial. The results have been such that
at latest advices a gang of eight men were
still at work with a bark-crushing plant in
the pine country lying between Dunedoo and
Coonabarabran ( N.S.W.).
“Musketoon”: An orcliardist at Orange
(N.S.W.) last week forwarded 30 cases of
prime pears to Sydney markets. His cheque
for the lot amounted to five bob. And yet
people say there is no money in fruit-grow-
ing !
“North Syd.” : It was during a “religious”
lesson in a North Sydney public school, and
the parson was extolling the virtues of six-
o’clock closing. Men could not now, he said,
send their lit tle child-ren for beer in the
evening, or go out and get drunk. “All you
little boys,” he bleated, “should feel proud
that, there is no more liquor sold in the
evenings.” Up. jumped an eager kid. “My
father can get it,” he said proudly. And he
told where. The parson told the police ; the
police sot the usual trap, and presently there
was a £25 snap. Out of the mouths of babes!
* * * *
“P-N.” : There is romance even about this
business of making chemical manure, which
his Ex. Strickland, of N. S. Wales, had a
look at the other day at Cockle Creek.
Twenty-five years ago the world was getting
very short of gold. The S’African fields had
not then poured out their millions and the
Westralian fields had only just been dis-
covered. The world began to talk of bimetal-
lism. If there wasn’t enough gold to carry
the world’s commerce, why not make silver
legal tender, too—so much silver worth so
much gold? Moreton Frewen. a fine-looking
Englishman, was the principal spokesman
for the bimetallists, and he was sent to
Australia to talk about it. The Gibbses,
connections of the Australian Gibbs-Bright,
firm, are English bankers, who have had
much to do with India, and therefore with
silver. So Moreton Frewen made the Gibbs-
Bright office a sort of headquarters in Aus-
tralia. Of course, always talking silver,
he had to look at the silver-mines at Broken
Hill, and while there got an idea that much
better use might be made of one of them.
He interested his friend Kin tore, then Gov-
ernor of South Aus.; they bought the mine,
called the co. the Sulphide Corporation, and
Lord Kintore is still its chairman, the Gibbs-
Bright firm being its Australian managing
agents. Bimetallism died, but the mine has
paid millions. For many years the co. pro-
duced only silver, lead and a little zinc.
Then it decided to put the sulphur, with
which the ore is heavily charged, to use. It
now turns this into aeia; and this acid,
poured on to phosphate rock from Ocean
Island, and mixed with sand to keep the
stuff granular, is the superphosphate which
so increases the wheat-yield that, according
to so good an authority as the late Jenkin
Coles, it has added £1 an acre to the value
of all the wheat lands in S. Australia.
“Globe”: The hand-saving automatic
telegraph-sender, which our telegraphists
plump for, is an Australian device, invented
by MacDonald, of Adelaide. In Victoria
an officer who buys one is refunded his
money without question ; but in Banana-
land a few years ago the writer had to
admit on paper that he had telegraphist’s
cramp, thereby badly influencing his chances
of promotion, before he was allowed to even
use one. _ The Banana State’s officials are
still prejudiced against them, I believe,
though their use would prevent many a
breakdown. There ought to be an inquiry
into this matter.
* * # *
t> “nci^ le a .mbereoona, mentioned in
B- —>/ 3/ 17 as having ended an adventurous
career on the N. S. Wales coast, was built
m Launceston (Tas.) about 15 years ago by
the late Tom Gunn, head of the firm of j.
and T. Gunn. She had an erratic career
from the start. At genesis she tore a hole
in herself by trying to climb over King
Island, where Gunn had land interests. After
that a mysterious explosion blew away the
deckhouse and set the ship on fire while
she was lying at the Launceston wharf,
lambercoona is Binghi for “happy home” ;
but as the old girl was guaranteed to go on
a bigger roll than any other boat on the Aus-
tralian coast, passengers and crew mostly
called her something else.
Justice Heydon, of Sydney Arbitration
Court, assured 14 wharf-laborers that it
would cost them £4 each. They had been
engaged to load oil out of lighters, and,
before starting, were told that the award
rate (Is. 9d.) would be paid. Then the
spokesman issued his ultimatum : “No good
to us; 'other firms are paying 25.” The
optimistic employers had the lighters taken
out to the ’waiting ships, waving the legal
Is. 9d. all the way. But the laborers stood
round in graceful attitudes waiting for 2s.
The city office tried to he stern by telephone,
but eventually had to surrender the extra
coppers. Then the Judge took a hand as men-
tioned above. Still, who cares? If you don’t
have to pay a fine, what does it matter how
many are imposed? Once every quarter the
N.S.YY. Railway Commissioners have to lay
before Parliament a statement showing
what rates they have abated and why, and
one of the early things acting-Premier
Fuller should do in this new Parliament is
to order a quarterly return to be made show-
ing (1) fines of all sorts imposed, (2) fines
of all sorts unpaid and why, (3) fines of
all sorts remitted and why.
* * * *
“Petifi”: For the queerest order yet
placed abroad ’ by an Australian financial
institution I nominate the one sent from
Sydney to London on Mav 19, 1818, bv the
Bank of N. S. Wales:—
1 Brass-barrelled blunderbuss, with sprimr-bavonet.
1 Case of horse-pistols—also brass barrels, with
spring bayonets.
1 Bullet-mould and some flints.
Forms for notes of 2s. 6d„ 55., 10s., 205., £5. £lO
and £2O, on paper similar to Bank of Kngl mcl note-
paper, with the watermark “Bank of N.S.W ” in the
centre.
By the way, the blunderbuss, which for many
years hung in the secretary’s, office, has gone
missing, and no one pleads guilty to knowing
its address.
* * * *
Parson Schafer, Adelaide’s screechiest tee-
total enthusiast, has been giving—under
what compulsion is not made public—a
glowing testimonial to two local winemakers.
At a public meeting in March lie shrieked
that “every man who drinks is disloyal to
the King and the Empire, whether he drinks
a glass of beer, whether he drinks a glass of
Penfold’s slush, or whether he drinks a glass
of Seppelt’s snake-juice.” And now lie adver-
tises in large type that he merely uttered
. my view as to the value to the public of all
intoxicating liquors,” and meant no asper-
sion on Penfold and Co., or Seppelt and Son,
and the particular brands of liquor they
make.
* * * *
“Glenitis”: The utility-poultry breed-
ers of Australia—those who want to culti-
vate the hen for its eggs and meat instead
of its personal appearance—are taking a
hand in the Federal elections. Their asso-
ciation has issued a circular to all candidates,
asking for assistance. in prohibiting the
entry of eggs from Asia. A good deal of
Government money has been wildly spent on
the local poultry industry, allegedly that the
fowl may become a national asset, as it is
in some much less favored countries. In
fact, farm-raised chook is a staple article of
food in certain States of the U.S.A., instead
of being, as in Australia, a luxury for the
Sabbath dinner and the Christmas gorge.
But the Australian farmer will never be in-
duced to look favorably on the fat hen as a
side-line while the industry is hampered by
thieving agents, the competition of China
and the blundering efforts of those who en-
courage the bird for its feathers instead of
its flesh and fruit.
“Shop” :< I wonder if the Wages Boards
know that there is a paper shortage? I
have a little shop with one female hand, and
so that Gwendoline may know what hours
she should be worked and what pin money
she should get, I have to paste up the Shop
Award and its dozen amendments. It was
only brought out in June, 1915, and was
then printed on a double foolscap sheet; now
it covers one side of the emporium. Some
of the amendments don’t affect my business,
but 1 have to put them all up if I don’t want
to get on the wrong side of the Union secre-
tary and a fit) fine. The landlord had the shop
done out the other week and I had to get .a
fresh suit of awards which hit tne to leg for
3s. 9d. Of course, if somebody took the
trouble to consolidate the amendments the
whole would go on four pages and only cost
3d. I confided my woes to the butcher, and
he led me into a little room with the wall
covered with printed matter. “That’s my
award,” he said. “Sixteen of ’em, and some-
times they bring out three on the one day,
all on separate sheets. Two lines of award
and the rest heading.” Just then in strolled
the baker, and told us we had nothing to
grumble at, as a complete set for his carter
topped the score at 17.
Judge Docker, of N. S. Wales, being 75
the other day. seized the opportunity to
remark that he had no intention of resigning.
But whether the judicial Bench should be
decorated with anyone of this age is not a
matter on which the last word should rest
with the Judge. A man of 75 deserves a
spell; and as Mr. Docker stubbornly refuses
to agree, the time is about ripe for the Gov-
ernment to insist on the old gentleman taking
25 years’ leave of absence.
It looks as though out of the war we are
to get a few things besides debts, scars and
glory. Waite, of Adelaide Museum, and
Captain White, the local authority on
natural history, agree that S. Aus. is being
invaded by the black rat, brought from
Egypt in transports, and likely to be a seri-
ous pest, as it eats fruit, birds, and pretty
well anything else. But Simons, of -the
Adelaide Board of Health, points, out that
years back, when the Port was being care-
fully “combed” for rats during the plague
scare, a few, but only a few, of the true
black species were caught ; and he argues
from this that they may not breed fast
enough to be a real danger.
A divorce suit was well under weigh in
the Sydney Court. The petitioner had
told her story —how her husband, who had
boomed bimself as a grazier, proved to be a
stable-boy in charge of a stallion, and how
her mother in Sydney had sent her half a
sheep every fortnight. Later the gen-
erous lady gave the young couple a
suburban cottage; but after a while the
bridegroom said “all he wanted was a
duck walk,” and left. The case hav-
ing got that far. someone pointed out that
the petition (based on desertion) had been
presented one month too soon, the statutory
three years not having elapsed. That upset,
.the Law’s beautifully-balanced apple-cart,
and the petition was dismissed at once. The
Law. as lonely brides should know, measures
desertion with a stop-watch.
From a contemptuous correspondent at
Broken Ilill: —-
Brother Brookfield, M.L.A., amuses me. Tie and
liis (Liquors talk about laying down their lives to
defend their liberties against Conscription. Why,
these very heroes are the most conscripted men on
the face of the earth. For instance, they have to
buy a daily rag breathing sedition and disloyalty,
and for this precious thing they have to
pay Ik. a fortnight. Those that refused
to pay were chucked out of the Miners’
Union, neck and crop, and that is the same as being
chucked out of Broken Ilill. They cannot even
spend their wages where they like. In the Con-
scription campaign some of the shopkeepers dared to
have an opinion. The order went out that these
people were to be boycotted, and in the union con-
scripts’ paper a list of grocers, butchers and publi-
cans was published and' we were told to deal at
those shops and no other. Is there any other part
of the world that allows this sort of thing? At
present it is not safe to open your mouth in BA)ken
Hill or you are very liable to get a crack at your
work or your clothes are cut up in the mine change-
houses. Only the other day a “popper” was found
full of dynamite: it was meant to blow some poor
devil, who had fallen into disfavor, to kingdom come.
This is a terrible indictment to make, but it is
true, and that it should be true is a bitter reflection
on succeeding Governments, which have simply left
the growing cancer alone, it being too far away to
cause Sydney any unpleasantness.
“Splendide” : The simple truth is that in
this high-wage country of big distances we
got on to the penny postage too soon. Our
distracted P.M.G. will never overtake his
£315,000 deficit by saving odd bits of string,
but he may by reverting to the tuppenny
stamp. The instituting of penny postage
has not resulted in extra letters being
written; the Mail Department is conse-
quently run at a loss and, as the whole
community has to make good the deficit, the
chap who posts but few letters has to con-
tribute to the big business man’s stamp-bill.
In no country in the world will you get a
cheaper rate than in Australia. And yet
Australia has to labor under the disad-
vantage of paying not only exceptional
wages but also for the carriage of
small quantities of mail to remote and
sparsely-populated districts. In the case
of telegrams the fee is 16 words for
ninepence in each State, while the rate
in England is ninepence for 12 words. The
Australian fee is ridiculously low when com-
pared with that of England, more especially
when the relative sizes of the two places are
considered. In Australia thousands of miles
of lines have to be maintained, whereas the
Gold Country is so small that it is possible to
have all wires underground, and thus reduce
maintenance costs to a minimum. A piece
of well-laid underground cable will see out
25 years without any attention whatever,
whilst Australia (as undergrounding is out
of the question on account of initial cost)
has to contend with bush-fires, storms,
white-ants, flying-foxes, etc., thus bringing
maintenance costs up beyond all imagina-
tion.


BRITISH
THOMSON
HOUSTON CUP
s. -RUGBY
iSx. ENGLAND
f
SAMTH6*
JUUUS
Oddi af the phone. ——
“Hello! B.T.H. MAZDA speaking: Yes? You’ve just installed B.T.H. Mazda Lamps throughout your home?
Yes, speak up —what’s that? ‘ They’re just the finest lamps you’ve ever had?’ Yes, 1 can hear. Go on! —
your rooms are brighter than they’ve ever been, and you’re so pleased you’ve rung up to tell me all about
it. What’s that? —now then, Exchange, don’t cut us off. Yes, go on your friends are all enquiring whether
it costs much to instal electricity ? No, certainly not. What’s that ? You told them if they used B.T.H.
Mazda Lamps their lighting bill would be reduced to a minimum ? /Good ! Quite so. What’s that ? Will I
send a G.E. Electric Radiator out next week ? You’ve decided to instal one for the winter. I’ll have it
attended to right away—best to get in early and avoid the rush. Yes, thanks, I’m well and awfully, busy—am
booked right through for the season. Good-bye—what ?”
Australian- General Electric-O
' Wentworth Av Sydney, G? of Queen & Little Collins StMelbourne.
Ohorns oil JioustorCx O? ftd.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co... Ltd., Launceston: Messrs. Oliver
_ and Oliver, MacQuarie Street.‘Hobart,
• RUGBY •
ENGLAND
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd.,, corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.). Ltd.. Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & .Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.


TOILET GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Shoe Hook, Lift and
Glove Hook, in Silk-lined Morocco Case, 8/0.
With Shoe Lift and Button Hook only, 7/6.
A. Saunders’ Handkerchief Box, pure Silver-plated, Ai
quality, hand engraved, “Ribbon” design, with lock and key, Silk
lined, £3/10/-
Glove Box, to match, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Perfume
Bottle, plain,
Solid Silver Mount,
Crystal Cut Glass
Bottle, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver
Photo Frame, hand burnished,
plain design, Imperial size,
£2/10/-
Cabinet size, 25/-
■
X.
: &-
3j :i» -
Wfr//rrrrrrf/rrrrrrtrrrrrFrrrrrrrr?rr?^
4P >
Si
A. Saunders* Solid Silver Manicure Set, 5 pieces,
hand burnished, plain design, 45/-
Other styles, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
Msa Siij?=jsSjjj
sms:
a#
-A
*1
U
s
?". -gwwr:# l *
■'v/w;
milt
gssig
sw-SSSw!
ec-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Toilet Set, comprising
Lady’s Brush, Mirror and Comb, plain design, in Silk-lined
Case. £3/3/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney,
opp. Railway
Station.
A. Saunders’ Silver-plated Purse, beautifully bur-
nished, “Ribbon” design, with chain handle, inner frame
nicely lined, 21/-,' plain, 15/6.
Solid Silver, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-, up to £5.
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar, hand engraved.
Pure Silver-plated Lid. Crystal fluted Glass Jar,
5/6.
Others, 7/6, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, “Ribbon”
design, with lock and key, silk lined, 35/-
Other styles, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
Do you feel Throaty
Then lose no time in buying a tin of
EVANS’ Pastilles .
Are made from a formula of the Liverpool Throat
Hospital. They are antiseptic and kill the germs.
EVANS, SONS, LBSCHER & WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
You cannot help being
nourished if you take
BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Gist Rrcn, II- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art or BoxiNg, new enlarged edition,
40 ’engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. . All Zola's, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made. Easy, 1/-. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
lat'est edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Sd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handy book, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(siinple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, J./1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
if-, posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of tiie Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook. 5,1-. Not Guilty (Blatcbford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My: Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd.i How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins.
1 /-.posted. House Painting and Papering, I'2.
o.
m
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but x about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
JWT- BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH. -»]
Prop. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks-’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,'Gas-Fitting, eta,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, ,1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vasip on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. 'Every Man His Own Car-
penter. 1/3. Ready Reckoner ,and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-,
ist, Made Easy. 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers-’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled info paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3 post. Ur.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay, Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry.
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and i guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. , Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, ■ cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
comDlete). 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TOMCAT.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


S^-sl
1 /
Why is it?
You do better work with a
UNIVERSAL
DRAFTING
MACHINE
Because you are not repeatedly distracted by handling and changing tools
and watching their alignment. You are thus able to concentrate your
mind—put in your lines just as fast as you can think them out.
Besides the speed gained by concentration, the Drafting Machine saves
25 to 50 % in time through mechanical convenience.
The UNIVERSAL DRAFTING MACHINE is adapted to all forms of Draft-
ing, Architectural, Mechanical, Structural, Map Work and Surveys.
In Australia we have the Victorian Railways and the leading Mining and
Engineering Companies using them successfully.
Shall we post you our special Drafting Machine Catalogue?
Proprietary Limited
Machinery, Iron and Tool Merchants,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ESTABLISHED 57 YEARS.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black. M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns. M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian \'nox. Esq., K.C.:
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds. £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
- DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £545,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,070,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
GRAMOPHONE
iffrt
RECORDS.
New MAY List Now Ready
Punctually, as usual, the now monthly issue of “Gramophone”
records comes to hand. The May list ’contains some excep-
tionally fine records, a selection being here quoted :
2-043008. Liuba’s Air (from Czara
kaia IN'evesta)
Madame Alma Gluok (Soprano)
151503.
f (Double-sided)
•{ Serenade (Counod)
[ Caro Nome (Rigroletto)
Amy Castles (Soprano).
-054063. Miserere (II Trovatore)
Martinelli, Destinn and
Opera Chorus.
2-07928. The Broken Melody (Vio-
lin) Ephrem Zlmbalist.
-032100. Aida—Celente Aida—Act. I.
Giovanni Martinelli,
4-2603. The Yeomen of England
(Merrie England)
Gate Win. Samuel (Baritone).
CGS7.
f (I)oul>le-8i<le«l)
“To-night’s the Night”
[ (Pink & White, & Please
Don’t Flirt With Me)
Henri Deoni (Tenor).
non
A (Double-sided)
] Four Thousand a Year
L Keep the Old Flag Flying
R. B. Salisbury (“The Quaints”)
Ask your nearest “Gramophone” dealer to play the new records
for you.
Complete lists, instruments catalogue and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
•' GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Marl:.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.
HUDSON SUPER-SIX
The Hudson Motor Car Company is the largest maker of fine automobiles in the
world. During 1916 over 25,000 Hudson Super=Sixes were built in the Hudson factory.
Reliability
Speed
Endurance.
HUDSON
\MOTOR/
Ecarsm
The Super-Six with its patented motor,
an exclusive motor that no other can
possess, has added eighty per cent, to
its former efficiency, and to-day the
Super-Six is the winner of all worth-
while stock car records for Reliability,
Speed and Endurance.
The beauty of the Super-Six —for it
represents the maximum in style and
elegance—and its distinctive design,
all appeal to the fine car buyer. The
Hudson Motor Car Company is an
organisation of great financial respon-
sibility. It has representatives in
every principal city in the world.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan
Cable Address: HUDSONCAR.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street. Sydney.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd.. Elizabeth* Street. Brisbane.
Lane Motors Pty. Ltd.. Melbourne.
Motors Ltd.. 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J* Brien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.


HOYT S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours —12.000 feet of film — S to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 621 S and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Febrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
hility.l •
ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester.
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOSIT OF
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ „ £5O
£B7 10 O „ „ £lOO
£875 O O „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty,
interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the Yi ar
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Bunks, State Savings Banks
■ -and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia 2Uth March, 1917
POLITICAL
POINTS
These so-called Imperialists are going to
make trouble for Australia if the Common-
wealth gives them the free hand they are
asking for. No country in the world is in
the least likely to tell Australia that she
must not have' a policy of High Protection.
But it is quite possible that, in return for
great services which unquestionably have
been rendered, one Power at least may ask
for “most favored nation” treatment. In
other words, she may demand that, while
Australia shall be at liberty to have what
Protective tariff she likes for the encourage-
ment of her own industries, she shall not
give any other country—Britain included—
any better treatment than she gives all the
Allies. On that point the Australian is
certainly not going to make trouble. lie
believes that he can do best for the Empire
by making Australia great. But the so-
called Imperialists have other ideas; and if
they are not kept within bounds they are
going to make Australia very sorry for her-
self before she is much old, r.
Lieut.-Colonel 11. A. Crouch, who distin-
guished himself in Gallipoli-and is probably
as anxious to win the war as any Phewsion-
ist, is back in Australia, taking the chair at
Labor meetings. “The surest way of en-
suring Australia’s share in the war being
prosecuted to the full, and proper treatment
being meted out to returned soldiers, is to
return the Labor party to office,” lie told a
meeting at Balaclava the other night. And
note this: Crouch for some years represented
Corio as a Liberal in the Federal Parlia-
ment.
[B. J. Harrison Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road,
EJwood, Vic-.]
The Phewsion is publishing the report of
Wilfred Blacket on the Federal Capital
crime as though it were all the fault of the
Labor caucus. But the Federal Capital
scandal is only a herring drawn across the
track of the Defence Department scandal.
And all the sins of that Department are on
the heads of members of the Phewsion Min-
istry ; for when Peareg was not the culprit
it was Joe Cook or his lieutenant Millen.
Whatever blame was due in the past to the
Caucus that put Pearce into his position, it
is certain that Labor has made a sort of
amende honoffTEle to the country by ejecting
him from the party. It couldn’t do more as
regards Defence matters than brush the mud
of Pearce from its boots, and promise to
modify the censorship if it is given power
next month. Until then the public will not
know how it has been bluffed and hood-
winked.
When the Wadeites and Holmanites got
round the cheese in the N. S. Wales pantry
and handed Gregory Wade a passport to
London for the good of his health, they
sang the praises of Wade and Holman in
terms of Biblical allegory. The one was the
Moses who led the Fusionists unto Mount
Pisgah and the other the Joshua who
showed them the Promised Land. Then there
was a great silence, broken the other day by
announcements that Cdhen had been, chosen
as Speaker of the Assembly and Levy was to
be Chairman .of Committees. Has Israel fore-
closed ?
[MTR PAUL, 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.]
FRIENDS NO LONGER.
FALSTAFF : God save thy Grace, King Hal! My Royal Hal!
KING : I know thee not, old man! Fall to thy prayers!
Presume not that I am the thing I was. — HENRY I V.
The N. S. Wales Minister for Works
declares that the Norton Griffiths agreement
is “impossible,” and erne of Holman’s jobs
in England is said to be to buy the State
out of it. It is, in fact, so “impossible” an
agreement that nobody has now a word to
say for it; yet it is no more “impossible”
than ever it was. But it is not nearly
enough to terminate such an agreement.
What the people are entitled to know is
how such a contract cailife to be made. So
admittedly dreadful a thing could scarcely
have gone through without a tremendous
amount of pushing; and N. S. Wales is
entitled to know who did the pushing. Even
assuming that no money passed hands the
State ought to be warned against the men
who are such shocking judges of a bargain
that they saddled the country with this
undertaking.
How to Win the War —-Abughes the other
side.
A case heard in the Melbourne Banco
Court last week should turn public suspicion
towards the Phewsion Government’s cen-
sorship of war-profiteering facts. The /inc
Corporation, Ltd., incorporated in England,
sued the Hirsch firm, of Germany, for a
large balance of money alleged to be due
for zinc concentrates supplied before the war.
A witness was asked to produce certain con-
tracts. It then appeared that he had been
desired by the Minister of Defence "not to
disclose the price which had been obtained
for zinc concentrates since the war, or to
what country the metal had been sold.”
Next day the acting-Secretary for Defence
filed an affidavit stating the reasons why
Pearce wanted these facts and figures sup-
pressed. Justice Hood said he felt'hound
to take his cue from the Minister’s affidavit,
but he “couldn’t see how the disclosure of
these contracts would be prejudicial to the
State.” In effect, then, his Honor said that
the censorship was being applied to keep
the people in ignorance of war-profiteering
facts, by preventing an all-important wit-
ness from giving evidence. "What was
practically a monopoly existed,” and he
wanted “the evidence of a person acquainted
with the dealings of that monopoly,” but
the Minister of Defence objected to his get-
ting it. So the position is just this: the
Phewsion Minister stands between the
metal “monopoly” and the Laborites who
would like to know how rich it is getting
out of this business of Winning the War.
[Edmund Fisher, 369 Collins Street, Melbourne.]
Hughes “saw the light” when he saw I to
I with Joe.
Boyd, Fewsion candidate for Henty (Vic.),
gave the case away the other night:—
Mr. Boyd: Tudor knows as well as Hughes that
there are certain restrictions that would not permit
of his keeping his election promise to 'deal with
the tariff next session.
A Voice: Are we not a self-governing- country?
Mr. Boyd: You are not, and you may as well
know it!
And Boyd had just been talking about “win-
ning the war” and “preserving the wonder-
ful liberties we enjoy.” We certainly used
to have the liberty to frame our own tariffs,
regardless of anybody, even England; but
apparently someone has given away that
right or is going togive it away. The mere
fact that the- Phewsion submits without a
kick is sufficient to make every genuine Aus-
tralian condemn it.
[F. G. Jones, Elgar Road, Burwood, Vic.]
The following are not extracts from a
speech by a Yarra Banker, hut a few frag-
ments from Hughes's opinion of Fusion,
mostly delivered in August, 1914:
Beginning as the secretary of a union and the
leader of the Labor party, he (Mr. Joseph Cook)
has become the leader of those who seek to destroy
unionism and the Labor party.
The Fusion’s real feelings towards democracy are
those of the wolf to the lamb. The Fusion would
squeeze the people bloodless.
The enemies of democracy are all in the Fusion
camp. The Fusion stands for privilege and wealth.
It fights their battles and gets in return their influ-
ence and their money.
Fusion would do away with Old-Age Pensions, the
Commonwealth Bank and the Land Tax. It would
do away with legal preference. It would attack
unionism. It would oppose outright the world-wide
tendency towards humane legislation.
Thus a vote for Hughes means, on his own
confession, a vote also for political ruffians
who would “squeeze the people bloodless,”
who “stand for privilege and wealth," and
who would “oppose outright the world-wide
tendency towards humane legislation.” This
is the sort of people to whom lie is prepared
to hand Australia in return for office. And
they call that “patriotism” !
[C. R. Bradish, 369 Collins Street, Melbourne.]
There was another—the 200 th —shriek in
the papers last week about Hughes’s tre-
mendous service to the Empire in “cutting
out the German cancer” in the metal indus-
try. The tremendous service that has been
rendered to somebody may la* judged by the
fact that the Empire is now paying £147
per ton for electrolytic copper instead of
the £62 which ruled just before the cancer
was cut out, £3O for lead instead of £lB,
and £57 for spelter instead of £2l 10s. For
tin, by the way, the world is mostly depend-
ent upon Chinese and Dutch, who are not
patriotically interested in Winning the War.
So they are now selling the Empire tin at
£217 per ton as compared with an average of
£206 in 1913 and £209 in 1914.
Australia finds herself running short of
guardsmen, so the minimum height for a
Billjim has been lowered to sft. 2in., with
special exemptions for nuggets of five feet
and less. At the same time the minimum
chest measurement (fully expanded) comes
down to 33 inches. It should bring in a lot
of useful rejects who failed earlier when the
land was full of giants, and the stupid mili-
tary idea still prevailed that one of the
essentials of an army was to look pretty on
parade.
The other day the Argus warned farmers
that to return the Labor party “would assur-
edly result in increased taxation, higher
wages for rural workers, dearer agricultural
machinery, and lower prices for all soil pro-
ducts. If farmers do not rally round the
flag of freedom and join the ranks of the
Win-the-War party, they will be voluntary
contributors to their own downfall.” Then
it is a bad look-out for poor old Hayseed.
For Fusion candidates allege that as regards
Protection and other matters of domestic
politics, the programmes of the two parties
are the same; the only point about which
they differ is the war —the Fusion wants to
win it. So if poor old Hayseed is going to be
ruined under the Labor narty he is also
going to be ruined under the Phewsion.
SPEECHLESS.
With Some Acknowledgments to P. B. Shelley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
More than 300 representative citizens attended a
luncheon tendered to the Premier of N. S. Wales
(Mr. Holman) as a farewell function prior to his
departure for London. In the course of his speech
of acknowledgment Mr. Holman was overcome with
emotion, and could not for a time continue.
Our Willie weeps! That fabric unsurpassed,
Stout heart and front of brass, lias bowed at last !
What matters it how bravely-strung the nerve,
How skilled the wit that time and function serve,
There lurks, somewhere, somewhere, a crisis still
To bend the strongest, as it bent our Bill!
O common cits., on’ either side the fence,
Gaze, and be still, and do him reverence
Who always played the game, and played for keeps —
Our Willie weeps 1
Courser that baulked no jump (and struck no rails),
Chameleon-soul of New South 1.0. Wales,
What was it struck your plumbless verbiage dumb?
With what damned ailment were you overcome
That your relentless eloquence fell weak,
And so reduced you that you could not speak?
Surely God died, Mark Tapley had the blues,
And Tudor kissed the neck of William Hughes,
The land woke solvent, and the Censor slept
When Willie wept!
Oh, weep with him, for Adoniiis stands
Shaken with sobs, his face between his hands ;
Our courtly Slimness longitudinal—
Oh, twig the tears that through his fingers fall!
Ts it because an unsuspected sag
Shows in the side of Bull’s fair bullion-bag?
Is it, perchance, a pain within the jaw,
Contracted in the cause of “Win-the-War”?
Or is it due to Labor-pain or creeps
That William weeps?
Belike the vision of McGowen’s feet—
Altar where once he learned the lessons sweet
Of humbleness and truth and patriot-grace—
Induced the damp that damned him for a space.
Some reminiscent whiff of long ago
Touched him to tears —the great are often so!
Or just because, perchance—for there’s no knowing!
He cannot guess (ice cannot!) why lie’s going.
Or some swift prescience of Australia’s sorrow
With none to spend what one, with care, might
borrow,
Awoke that slumbering chord to life that leapt
When Willie wept!
Carve it in marble, shout it to the sea,
Paint it across the sunset’s phantasy,
Scrawl it across the sky with purple ink
Great men are not so hard as people think!
From each stern soul, down each patrician nose
May trickle guileless, saline, lachrymose,
A single, sudden teardrop (one or more)
Displaying heart that hid unguessed, before :
Advertisement of deeps beneath the deeps—
Our William weeps!
VICTORIA.
BASH.
“THE DAY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The German newspaper Tagwacht declares that it.
is unnecessary to further conceal the truth. “We
cannot conquer,” the paper says. “It is useless to
deceive the people longer.”
Long we watched for the Day.
The Day has come.
Loud is their battle-play,
Eager their drum
Beating up valleys red
Piled with our mangled dead—
The Day has come!
Fierce we were in the fray—
The Day had come!
Cold in our path to slay
Nations stood dumb.
Red was our murder-thrust —-
Rapine and shame and lust —
The Day had come!
Long we clung to our place—
The Day had come.
Trenches stood face to face,
, Frost-bound ami numb;
Till with the spring arose
The flame-might of our foes—
The Day had come!
Bitter the truth, but clear.
The Day has come.
Grim is our road of fear.
Eager their drum
Beats the new dawning in.
Nought can we save, or win—
The Day has come!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


Australian Humor.
/ 15otands
EDWARD DYSO%
A Selection of the
Humorous Novels
in the
“Bookstall” Series
of Australian Books.
BILLS I DEES
BY A G STEPHENS
quiel Bloke v\ ith <» quiet
ifC.find, d qUKt with
aqu-ri
11= each
1 1 posted.
Australia’s Favorite Fiction Series .
A TRIUMPH IN AUSTRALIAN PUBLISHING-
OVER 1,500,000 NOVELS ALREADY SOLD.
By EDWARD DYSON,
One of Australia’s Most Popular Authors.
“FACT’RY ’ANDS.”
A masterpiece of Australian humor.
“SPATS’ FACT’RY.”
••There’s not a dull line in it,” says a
foremost critic.
“THE MISSING LINK.”
A delightful dead-beat story.
OF LANCELOT.”
A side-splitting series of uneonventi<jnul
love adventures.
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS SELECTION STORIES.
The Humor of Outback Australia in Thirteen Great Novels.
ALL 1/- EACH.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA.”
A capital story, written and illustrated
by NORMAN LINDSAY, Australia’s
foremost black-and-white artist.
“ABORIGINALITIES.”
A collection of the gems that have
appeared in The Bulletin’s famous
Aboriginalities pages.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S
“HOW McDOUGALL TOPPED THE
SCORE,” and Other Verses and
Sketches. , . .
“THAT DROLL LADY.
THE SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF BRIDGET McSWEENEY.”
A. G. STEPHEN’S
‘BILL’S IDEES.”
HARRY JULIUS’S
“THEATRICAL CARICATURES.”
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
'©S©M<
sd
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2 6.)
Some Excellent Regal Records
at 2/- each (double-sided).
6012
( Hoys of the Dardanelles Stanley Ivirkby, baritone.
I What do V'ou Think of Australia Now? „ „ »
6140
\ Peg’ o' My Heart Irving Gillette, tenor.
} You Have Always Been the Same Old Pal „ „ >»
6804
( Farewell, Isabelle
l Cheer l'i>, Molly .
Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
6815
f Your King and Country Want You Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
| Fall In » ' •>
<>B2o
| Here We Are, Here We Are, Here We Are Again . . Stanley Kirkby,
( The J'lag that Never Comes Down Harrison Latimer,
baritone.
baritone.
086+
j We’re Really Proud of You
I Tell My Daddy to Come Home Again
Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
(5867
I Here We Are Again, March King’s Military Band.
| Now, Are We All Here? Yes! March •> »
<5BBO
j When 1 Dream of Old Erin
| Just a Little Bit of Green
Waller van Brunt, tenor.
. John E. Meyer, baritone.
TO!
s It’s a Long-, Long Way to Tipperary Alexander Prince, concertina.
) La Marseillaise » ” ”
7137
) .Jeremiah Diddler
| Boy Scout, Burlesque
Fred Bluett, comedian.
Tier.
) The Souk That Stole My Heart Away
| Yearn Ago
; Harry McClaskey, tenor.
«p*
) Blue Byes
( A Little Bit of Heaven
Stanley Kirk by, baritone.
7233
s Under the Union .lack, March Hand of H.M. Scots Guard:
( Australian War Songs March » >* ” ”
72-J7
\ National Emblem March
) Distant Greetinß March .
Silver Stars Band.
7-JGB
( The Story the Angelos Told Stanley Kiikl
(Swinging High, Swinging low •.
<r, baritone.
r>-o
) Hoys of the Dardenelles March
l High School Cadets March ...
Hand of\JI.M. Scots Guards.
Silver Stars Hand.
7>86
j Australia Will He There
} Australia Will He There, March
... Stanley JKirkby, baritone,
ltnn (V of H.M. Welsh Guards, vocal chorus.
r»n
fA Perfect Pay • ••
\ Somewhere a Voice is Calling, duet
Frank tenor.
Grace Kerns & i Herbert Stuart.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N S W.—Grafonola, Ltd.. Dakin g House, Dawson Place.
MELBOt'KNE, VIC. —Hinsdale's Proprietary, Ltd.. 209 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King anil King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE. S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 132 Pirie Street.
PERTH W.A. — H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
VICK LAND. N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan. Ltd.. Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Rannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Makefielil & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Wehley Sons and Gorton, Ltd., 213 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
SWEETENED CONDENSED
“ur I
No
Milkman is Required if you
a few Tins of
%
a
m
ns -
a
EES
■
1
■Sue
wmmmmmmmmmrnmmm.
*
7 s
£6
°N.
**
r eP
u
sa
r\
<s
%
%>
'■'Aj
%
%
"K
Id. stamp
qsajj 03jij jnos ujrq }ou H?a\ pine pduado uaqM uoqipuo? }oa.jjad ui sdddq u
papp\? Jiegns aubd aand qqM ‘pazijuiais
pue pasuapuoD milft <SMOD Ajduiis si
PJIS
WKBBm
* ..
KTi wm Sgi
—rarT3BSg I


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland!
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in ibis Coupon below dating the Clans of Land in which yon
are interested and full particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence a Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
L&,
3 Sc
&;«a
To vote right at the coming elections is
to be rightly inspired. And to he rightly
inspired is to be inspired by that wise spirit
King George IV. top-notch Scotch. — Advt.
fsd
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. -Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Missing: Friends.
KATE and BRIDGET LOUGHLIN,
Charters Towers; ANTHONY and
ANNIE LOUGHLIN, Sydney, N.S.W., are
sought by brother Mark.
Write CERES, Cape Province, South Africa.
VITALITY FOR MEN
You can make every moment of life a joy by adopting
the Orloff System of Scientific Physiological Culture.
Even the first week’s Treatment will give you an
improvement almost beyond belief.
It will develop your figure—broaden your shoulders,
deepen your chest, give you wonderful muscle develop-
ment and a perfect carriage.
If your physical and nervous system is depleted—if
.you are losing vitality, nerve and strength-—if you are
tired and worn out by the day’s work —if you are thin,
anaemic, sallow, nervous, despondent, undeveloped, for-
getful, listless —if you have backache, constipation,
indigestion, kidney trouble, catarrh, rheumatism, or if
your vital organs are affected—the Orloff System will
absolutely cure you and bring you back to the perfection
of health.
FDITF t the orloff book
X JZv ; 8011. 26/4/’l7.
The Orloff Book tells the complete story of this wonder-working
System of Culture. It explains what you may accomplish and
gives the fee. Cut out this advt., and send it with 3d. in stamps
to pay postage, etc., and we will send you a copy. •
THE ORLOFF SYSTEM, 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
fsd
SPORTING
NOTIONS
VICTORY
ASSUPED
WITH
MICK SIMMONS
GLOVES
Alfred Yockler, Melbourne’s old-established
turf tipster, pulled up in the Insolvency Court last
week and annoyed Judge Moule by treating him as
a friend and a brother. Liabilities £1914, assets
£lO2. The assignee's report revealed that the
prophet was said to owe “hundreds and hundreds”'
to bookmakers, and insolvent himself admitted that
he never kept any accounts. It seems natural.
When a seer is gazing forward and trying to pick
winners he doesn’t want to be reminded of the
also-rans of the past.
At Sydney yearling sales there was good
money for the few lots that everyone seemed to be
looking lor. For the rest prices were low and there
is reason for suspecting that some fairlv good bar-
gains were got. Anyway, this page confidently
expects to be recording next season, or the season
after that “the winner cost £5.” For some English-
bred youngsters aeroplane prices were paid, and a
draft of Kilbroneys, from .1. B. Keid’s Elderslie stud
(M.L.), showed that someone was looking hard for a
second edition of Kilboy.
The buyer of a yearling by Flavus —Boil-
ing, full brother to The Fortune Hunter, has been
thinking hard about a suitable title for the nag.
As the name must be suggestive-of something yellow
and bubbling, why not, christen tlie moke after any
jaundiced little man who bubbles all day and babbles
all night?
Buyers of racing stock follow fashions as
eagerly and blindly as women pursue the latest in
millinery. Let the get of a new sire show winning
form, they promptly forget the breed which did the
same thing before and go after the fresh consign-
ment. 'Pile form shown at Randwick in the Spring
by the Maorilander Kilboy made it certain that
youngsters by Kilbroney would be in demand. And
it is just possible that they may deliver the goods,
for as a sire Kilbroney has been getting considerable
adlvt. from his family.' Kilfinn, who beat Desert
Cold last week, is by Kilbroney and Kilrush, who
finished ahead of Kilfinn in a Nursery Handicap at.
Chch a few days before. Kill’ern (owned by Stead
and Luttrell), winner of the Russell.y Plate, and
Kilmeedy, third in that event, are by the same
horse.
* * * # *
Kilboy’s recent, win of three good races in
Maori land, tacked on to his victory in the A.J.C.
Derby, makes him out a good horse, and it is pro-
bable that owners wish they had kept him in
Australia. Still lie had a bit of luck in getting
away with the Croat Autumn Handicap, 14 mile, at
Christchurch the other day. He carried "Bst. 81b.,
and outstaying Fiery Cross (7st. 91b.) over the last
bit, won by a neck. Clifford's Martian horse Adju-
tant (9st. 91b.) had a mighty bad passage in the
race, being knocked back to last at seven furlongs
and remaining there until the turn. From there
he came on with a tremendous run and was only
half a length away when Kilboy reached the post.
It was a great performance. With a decent trip
Adjutant would almost certainly have won.
* * * *
Randwick trainer Mayo, owner of Sydney
Cup-winner The Fortune Hunter, got a .letter the
other day announcing that, unless the writer
heard from him, the ringing-in of another moke
as the ITuntev at the A.J.C. meeting would be ex-
posed. Queer how few people noticed this; but,
of course, the facts are well known. Mayo was
the victim of a deep-laid conspiracy. When he
arrived on the course with his horse on the first
day a stranger touched him on the shoulder and
said, “Mr. Mayo, kindly oblige me with change
for 3s. fid.” As he turned to oblige, the bridle
on the horse he was leading was slipped off by
a confederate of the but toner and placed over the
head of another animal that had been held in
readiness near by. The unsuspecting owner, after
being profusely thanked for the 14 traybits,
walked off, unconscious l that he was leading a
changed nag. After the substituted horse had won
the Autumn Stakes and Cup, it was abstracted
from Mayo’s stable in the middle of the night
and the dinkum quadruped put in its place, to
run in the A.J.C. Plate and get beaten. Great
sympathy for himself is expressed by the owner
at the heartless fraud worked upon him. It tran-
spires that the horse which won the Stakes and
Cup was a well-known trotter that had been
surreptitiously educated to gallop and is now com-
peting on pony courses.
* * * *
“Mujik”: On breeding there may be
doubts; but on looks and performance it seems
fairly reasonable to expect that Thrice will develop
into a. Derby colt. The nag has it greatly in his
favor that he has not been knocked about in youth.
Of the other two-year-olds seen in N. S. Wales the
most likely-looking are Modesto, Duntulm, Bron-
zetti, Broken Glass and possibly West ;Molong and
Pah King. That the last had little racing and then
only late in the year, is to his advantage. It is
certain that, as usual, a dozen or so of the two-year-
old crop were raced off their legs. Why owners put
up with this is one of the great mysteries of the
turf; why the racing clubs don’t put a stop to it
is even more difficult to explain. At Randwick this
Autumn at least a dozen really promising gallopers
had their future heavily discounted by being punched
out in races they had no possible chance of winning
and were in no condition to start in. Some day
the futility and waste of all this will be recognised
and the racing of two-year-olds very strictly limited
to the end of the season —and that will be a pre-
liminary to dropping it altogether. But, of course,
so long- as the owner of a particularly forward
youngster can win several thousands and breeders
profit by the advt., the owners of dozens of others
will insist on losing their monev and ruining their
nags.
“Trot”: A Sydney paper explains the way
to get a mental grip of the totalisator dividend you
will collect: “Divide the number of backers on your
horse into the total number and multiply the result
by 64.” Why multiply anything? Suppose a case
for illustration. Nag, Reefer, six-horse race, paying
a single dividend; 132 tickets at £1 on Reefer;
total investments on the machine £756. A punter
with a quid on Reefer dividing 132 into 756 and
multiplying by 61 sees a dividend of £37 Is.
dangling before him. But when Reefer wins and
the arithmetician dashes for the pay-out window I'll
bet him a thousand to 2d. that if the cashier gives
him more than £5 Is. the safest place for him will
be on the other side of the fence.
“Remo”: Of course the totalisator sys-
tem pushed on to N. S. Wales is just plain farce, and
quite a lot of people co-operate in assisting the
general hilarity. At Victoria Park (Sydney), on
Wednesday of last week, the machine was held up to
public ridicule. The fun started- with the third
division of the Maiden Handicap. The dividends
announced at the machine were: The Nut (first),
£1 195.; Paymaster (second), £2 19s. After a
large number of investors had been paid it was
found that all the money in the contraption had
disappeared, and there were still people outside
brandishing tickets on Paymaster. Sorpel>ody then
woke up and discovered that the dividend on this
horse should,have been 135., and not £2 19s. Whereupon
the pay-out windows were shut down and backers
informed that no further dividends would lie handed
out on Paymaster until after the last race. The wait,
presumably, was to permit the accumulation of
sufficient cash to make good the deficiency. But all
this was only part of the trouble. In the first divi-
sion of the 14.2 Why Why and Madam Rorie dead-
heated. There were 616 tickets taken out on the
race. Of these 66 were on Why Why and 108 on
Madam Rorie. The dividends were declared to be
Why Why £1 Os. od., Madam Rorie £1 11s. Od.
The true dividends should have been Why Why
£2 25., Madam Rorie til ss. fid. Seeing that
punters who were on Why Why have no hope of
getting their money back, and that the totalisator
people benefited by this mistake to the extent of
close on £BO, it is up to the Government to at
once insist on that- sum being handed over to one
of the various war funds, and to make the Victoria
Park Club sit for an examination in arithmetic.
“Gustavos Gravel pit”: Victorian racegoers
don’t bet so much as many people thought, or as
much as the Peacock Government hoped. When the
State Treasurer estimated that the betting-tax would
bring in £71,000 for the year many wiseacres
remarked that the figures were far too low. Some
optimists opined that even two or three times that
amount would be realised. But. within two months
of the end of the financial year the Treasury has
only scooped in £45,000 from all sources and looks
forward to a grand total of £55,000 at most. Of
the sum in hand £10,665 represents the tax on
bookies’ licenses. The tote may have to come to the
rescue, after all.
* * * *
The Maoriland champion Desert Gold ran
against a snag in two places at the Wellington
meeting last week. Tn the North Island Challenge
Stakes, seven furlongs, she carried 9st. 101 b. into
second place. The winner, Killfinn, carried 7st.
This broke the sequence of wins for the mare. She
had a record of 18. On the second day Desert Gold
met Kilboy and The Toff at w.f.a. in the Trentham
(Tip, two miles. She arrived third, Kilboy winning.
This was the mare’s first journey over the distance.
After all, owner Lowry might as well have brought
her over to Randwiclc.
Sydney Stadium provided its first chance
for the coroner last week, the boxer known as “Sid
Lorraine” failing to recover from a punch on the
most sought-after locality. The deceased was a vigor-
ous fellow and up to the time of the hit was holding
his own very well. It was an encounter of the kind
in which only the minimum of damage might reason-
ably be expected. Result—Court proceedings in
which eight individuals arc taking a direct personal
interest. Evidence at the inquest revealed that the
deceased was organically sound but had a skull
abnormally thin. This is almost as dangerous a
possession for a boxer as a faulty heart, for it
sometimes happens that the k.o. is followed by a
weighty smack from the floor. Unfortunately a thin
skull is the kind of asset of which a citizen is
mostly unaware until he is dead.
-** * *
The bantam championship again belongs
to Vince Blackburn, of Balmain. He took it on
Saturday from Jack Jannese at Rusheutter’s Bav
Stadium. This was the fourth conflict between the
two. Each has won twice in the same place, Black-
burn’s double being landed at Sydney and Jannese’s
at _ Melbourne. This suggests that the mystery of
point-scoring is solved in different ways bv different
referees. And it seems to the writer that this just
about hits the bull’s eye in relation to these abbrevi-
ated vouig men—that the question of which is the
best is very much a matter of opinion. Skill in
defence is a rarer quality than forcefulness in bash,
and strictly speaking should be held in higher
estimation- '-'Sometimes it is; sometimes it isn’t.
More frequently a punch on the chin makes contem-
plation of the scales of justice a waste of time.
Blackburn is ceytainly a more vimful party than
Jannese. He carried the fight to the visitor’s
countenance and bombed his commissariat depart-
ment with great regularity. On the other hand John
boxed with extraordinary Skill and did thing's with
his left which were exceptionally smart. It was a
fine, rousing scrap, both lads repudiating the “go
slow” policy and toiling at top speed from start
to finish. Scott’s verdict for Blackburn was cer-
tainly as correct as would have been a finding for
Jannese. There was not much either way.
* * * *
Sam Saunders made an effort to tear the
featherweight championship from Bert Spargo at
Melbourne on Saturday and took a hiding instead.
Samuel is troubled with the slows, and in this class
a pug who moves with the deliberation of a tank
is merely getting in the way of tribulation. He can
hit hard, but, unfortunately generally deposits the
wallop where there is nobody to receive it. Spargo
hit him aloft and below and for the sake of variety
smote him sideways, baekways and all the other
ways. At the ninth clash the referee detected
Samuel on the ropes hopelessly groggy. Whereupon
he dragged Mr. Spargo off and told him the line
had been broken. Sam should now 7 hold himself in
reserve as firmly as possible and give his agility a
long course of physical culture.
Darcy’s main trouble in Yankeeland is
that he landed with a fixed idea that he was a
bigger draw than any other pug' in this u-ni-verse
and wasn’t able to communicate the notion to either
the other pug or the collective Uncle Samuel. And
his readiness to accept a job as an “actor” and the
big end of the purse by conflicting with McCoy or
Jeff Smith has not encouraged anyone to chase him
with better offers for bigger game. Instead of
acquiring that heap ,of dollars by punch, he seems
to have become the proprietor of a great unpopu-
larity by opening his mouth too much.
* * * *
So Darcy hits joined the United States
Aviation Corps! Oh, well, he is, as we found out,
expert enough at flying.
Left-hander Arthur Christian (North
Perth) burst into the limelight at the wind-up of
Westralian cricket with a .smite of 124 and seven
wickets for 50 runs v. Claremont. This effort lifted
his aggregate to 523 (highest of the season) for
nine completed innings (average of 58.12), and 46
wickets at 11.28 apiece. W. Hughes’s 81 wickets
in 170 overs was another incident of the season.
North Perth’s premiership success came chiefly
through the toil of these twain.
Having got six clubs to join in this sea-
son, Vic. football League is now waiting to see
whether Essendon will don jerseys before drawing-
up the list of fixtures. ’Don isn’t keen. It wants
all receipts pooled, a small, limited allowance made
for genuine exes, and the balance given to the
patriotic funds. The League, which just now really
means Carlton, ’Roy and ’Wood, isn’t on. The
reason can be read in Carlton’s balance-sheet for
last season, adopted without question the other even-
ing. That document set forth that the receipts
were .£BB5, of which £7O went to reduce the ever-
lasting bill or overdraft, £99 to recoup players’
Joss of time- —astonishing how many ’ballet's have
to toil on Saturday afternoons— £45 for travelling
expenses, £57 for payments to injured players and
£223 for wages, salaries, etc. Other items in-
cluded material, eucalyptus oil and sundries, but
there was an unaccountable omission of any pay-
ments for hot sea baths. As for the patriotic funds,
not one of them got a blessed halfpenny, unless
the item, “Returned Soldiers’ Assn., £40,” under
the heading of liabilities, means that the.club con-
siders its lOU as good as the cash. No wonder
Essendon wants all receipts pooled and that Mel-
bourne and St. Kikla stand out altogether!
Another good sport just killed in Prance—
Dr. Guy Bailey, of Hobart, son of G. H. Bailey, an
old Australian XI. man, now diocesan secretary to
the Tassy Anglicans. Bailey the younger was a
fine cricketer, like dad. When an undergrad he was
one of the most successful bowlers in Melbourne
’Varsity team. It was he who captured Warwick
Armstrong’s wicket after the big fellow had compiled
his record score of nearly 500 on the Uni. ground.
“Hussar”: Had his last shot at goal a
short time ago, the Earl of Harrington, the doyen
of English polo-players. Aged 73, whitebearded,
and as good at that age as many lads of 40, he went
to the last game through blood-poisouing. He
practically lived in the saddle, for he hunted five
or six days a week from September to April, and
the rest of the year he was playing polo or schooling
ponies.
* * * *
The “sports” are at the Front. The
other day the Onkaparinga secretary got a cable
from Private B. O’Connor asking that the Easter
Monday results should be sent to- Egypt. A year
ago the soldier rode Coolong, the winner of the
Amateur Steeple.
*. * * *
The Lindrum brothers have started a
long game of billiards at Parlor in Mel-
bourne. Seemingly it is to be a fair go for
supremacy, though it doesn’t count as a champion-
ship match. To the writer’s way of thinking, the
defeat of champion Fred by young brother Walter
can be only a matter of time—-and a very short time
at that.
# * * *
Genial 55-year-old Fred Weiss has wiped
out the fallacy that Youth is all-essential at billiards.
Against W. Abottomey, jhe smartest of N.S.W. tourna-
ment professionals, at Sydney last week, he conceded
22 years and 2000 start in 8000 up, and it was a
comfortable gallop to win by 981. Weiss’s best cues
were 249 and a dozen centuries. Abottomey used
up his nerves and was always unhappy.
* * * *
At N.S.W. Great Public Schools regatta
on the Parramatta River last week, there was great
yelling when Grammar, St. Joseph’s and C. of E.
fought every inch of the mile and a half between
Gladesville and Blaxland’s in the cha*npionship
“eights.” There was never more than two lengths
between the boats. At the end the Grammar School
boys had just enough ginger left to win in the
schools’ record of 7min. 47sec. St. Joseph's (last
year’s winners) were second.
* * •* *
After all, H. A. Parsons’s great spin with
the side-car at Mortlake (Vic.) recently will not
take the cash. A protest on the ground that Par-
sons’s machine was not a stock model was upheld
by the committee after examination; so J. Walker,
H. Taylor and E. Tyler take a step up the prize-
money ladder. Parsons contends that the machine
was a stock model. How about an examination of
machines before they compete?
* * * *
The club premiership at bowls—almost
the only sport, bar horse-racing, to hold up its head
in public in Adelaide during the war —has been won
by Adelaide, the oldest club. The last match was
with the Oval, its most venerable rival, and was
a tie at 97 all; but the Adelaides won easily on the
play-off. John and Roy Hill," Blinman and Pettinger,
old cricketers of repute, were in the Oval team.
Every suburb has a club now, and some of them are
strong; but Adelaide did not lose a match against
the whole 15 of them. The single-handed four-bowl
championship of S. Aus. was won by King, of Hind-
marsh, from Osman, of South Park.
“Foo-lar”: Again I ask misguided ’gun
enthusiasts to refrain from advising novices to aim
in front of a flying bird with a shot-gun. “Erv-
ander” is welcome to mathematically shoot falcons
with a rifle, as he allows nothing for scatter of
shot, but I prefer to down fat duck with No. 6 shot.
My gun throws an even pattern all over a three-foot
circle at 35 yards, at which distance a duck flying
at a right angle to line of aim would travel nearly
one foct betwen trigger-pull and arrival of shot.
“Bill Badd” proves my argument correct when he
avers that with an aim at the beak the centre of
charge strikes the body, six inches distant.
“Tackle” : During the last few years Eng-
lish perch have become fairly plentiful in the Bom-
bala River (Monaro district, N.S.W.), which already
held Loch Levin and rainbow trout. The fry of these
English perch were originally liberated in Saucv
Creek, a tributary of the Bombala, and eventually
worked their way up and down the latter stream.
In Great Britain perch up to 51b. are recorded, but
the largest caught in our waters would be about 31b.
They are capital table fish, flesh firm anil of good
flavor. favorite haunts, fairly deep water about
wallow roots, like our river perch or yellow-belly,
but the biggest perch are usually found in the
deepest holes. Practically the only useful bait is
earth worms or the fry of other fish.
“V.”: Expert “black-brimmers” generally
reckon it sheer lunacy to offer the acute and wary
“darky” any bait save pippies, prawns or sandworms,
and thjjp may be true in the case of the educated black
bream of well-fished waters, but the darky of the
N.S.AV. South Coast salt lakes, inlets and estuaries
is not nearly so particular. Writer has caught him
on fairly stout lines decorated with cungevoi or
mullet, and he will usually, but not always, succumb
to crab. One South Coast fisher, by the way, de-
clares that cheese —probably gruyere or limburger—
will sometimes do the trick, while an oyster (with
a hook through it.) tied up in muslin affords refresh-
ment which no healthy black bream can resist. 1
have tried plain oyster bait, first soaking the bivalve
in whiskv to toughen it, hut the bream would have
none of it. Is the bream a teetotaller?
“Son Cod”: I want, to nominate as a
candidate for the belt donated to the catcher of the
greatest number and weight of fish at one pull.
Mr catch is a Oft. shark containing 28 young, each
Din. long. For second place I have a 10ft. .shark
with 21 young, each 20in. long. In both cases the
new generation were nearing birth, having only the
small cord attached. When mt adrift they were
able to swim as if brought to light in the ordinary
way. But only one made good time. The rest
died in infancy.
* * * *
“Berley”: Briggs says the biggest catch
he ever made was with two friends up on the
North Coast of N. S. Wales. The trio, growling
about their poor luck, were returning to port when
somehow their boat touched a sandspit on the Cape
Hawke bar, and men, fish and gear were tumbled
into the wet. They clung on some way or other
and, after what seemed hours, were carried ashore.
Meanwhile their catch floated round them —enough,
it seemed, to attract every shark from Gabo to Point
Danger. Briggs says it seemed incredible that three
men could possibly have caught the enormous number
of splendid fish that bobbed up and down round the
boat. It looked as if all the fish in the Pacific
were dead at once. A fine snapper Briggs had been
proud of kept rubbing itself against him in a dis-
graceful way ; and he nearly died of exhaustion
through trying to kick the brute off. lie hasn’t
gone deep-sea fishing since.
“Stingaree Bill”: Fishing for whiting,
bream and flathead at Gribbs Island, near Sandgate
(Q-), we got stuck in a big- stingaree. My mate and
I were in a small, flat-bottomed boat. He thought
lie had - captured a big flatliead. My diagnosis was a
whale. After being played for an hour and 40
minutes the brute was stranded on a mudbank. It
measured 44ft. across. In the interior we found a lady's
purse, of soft leather, containing 4d., some paper
pulp and two hairpins. Perhaps the pulp was the
remains of a fiver or a pawn-ticket. I’ve got no
luck, anyhow.


BE A
HARD-HITTING, SKILFUL,
FORCEFUL BOXER !
In other words, a real man —a man able to stand up for his rights, if
need he, and deal out more than he receives.
You’ve surely seen many cases where MIGHT WAS RIGHT, where
a great rough “bully” unjustly attacked an inoffensive' individual. >f
Just imagine if you were to be goaded by the insults of a bull>
until your self-respect could stand no more. How would you get on
in the “scrap” that followed? Could you stand up to your man,
confident of your ability to “out” him, or would you be nervous on
account of your lack of knowledge of the Noble Art?
Now, to be forewarned is to be forearmed. You will do well in
learning to box —in knowing just when and how to hit —how to. stop
a rusher—how to land a knock-out.
MW
r
1 Teach Boxing by Post
and will quickly develop your natural skill. Why
not be one of my pupils? The instruction is prac-
tical, simple and easily understood. It thoroughly
explains and illustrates every serviceable “move”
in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experi-
ence and keen observation of the best “moves” of
the world’s best boxers.
You ought to write for my illustrated Booklet,
“Sfientific Boxing 1 in Your Home,” which give's
fuller particulars, cost of tuition, etc. Just write
your name and address on this advertisement, and
post, to me. I 111 know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”)
BAKER
604 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
S\rt l h
s^'i
p
>
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
CrKUh Imperial Oil Co. LiA
ss,
Find the Wonder Places
—the beauty spots that lie off the
beaten track Go touring on
<&ndm
The Motorcycle of Supreme Comfort
Catalogue “ D ’* with Pleasure,
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. ftj;
109-113 Russell St., Melbourne.
PATO**
• 03*
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Gar Lighting
with the Edison
Storage Batteries
m
■,
§gf
§|J
For the lighting and
ignition of motor-cars
and launches Edison
Storage Batteries are
positively unequalled.
They are clean, conve-
nient and RELIABLE,
light and marvellously
durable —lasting many
years with practically
no attentio n —and
proving in the end by
far the most economi-
cal made.
Write at once for full
details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
• 'r
C,
\
' j
1
-'".-iS
‘ r
>>
■/• •
'ii-uniu^
RIGNEY SHOES
are daily becoming more and more the choice
of men who desire length of service and
comfort in their footwear, in addition to
smart appearance.
We illustrate a very high grade Box Calf
Bal.
Price - - 30/
11l choice Tan Willow, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE,
/
g
I
f
sdf
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Ib Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION —Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
sdf
sd
fsd
tfr
K
P
i
will keep you dry
in continuous rain.
Tlie “Rubber-Duk” is absolutely waterproof. It will
keep you and your Saddle dust-dry even in the fiercest
tropical downpour. The “Rubber-Duk” has been
SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR SADDLE-USE.
and- this, combined with its rain-resisting capacity,
makes it an unbeatable coat for Horsemen’s wear.
It is constructed in a Stout, Light-Brown Duck of
the Highest Grade Obtainable. The texture is doubled
throughout with a Sheet of Pure Rubber inserted
between the two thicknesses. \n extra niece extends
'over the chest, shoulders and hack. There is a triple
thickness where the fronts meet when they are but-
toned, so no moisture can enter there. The “Fan”
protects the Saddle at back, and the Coat buttons well
over the Pommel in front. The Coat is of ample
length—is Australian-made —and at the price repre-
sents the limit of Value.
POST YOUR ORDER—WE PAY FREIGHT.
vn
%
is
si
w
%
> :
m
*■
~~
s.,v
Lincoln,
Stuart & Co.
PTY. LTD.-
“ Specialists in
Outfitting by
Mail”
Melbourne


Now is the time to buy
THE s ALL-BRITISH
ONOTO PEN!
fsd
BRITAIN
leads i n
F o un fain
Pns The
Pen that
does not
leak, that
fills itself
and cleans
itself in fil
ling. is Bri
tish made
It is I he
Onoto the
pen that ne
ver scratches
or splutters
that writes
readily and
,s ni o o t h 1 y,
and isalways
i eady to
write. Get an
Onoto now.
It is the-best
pen made in
Britain o r
a n v w here
throughout
the world,
insist on the
f
Onoto
Self-Filling * -
Safely Fountain
Pen
Pis: JCE. I 4 6, and upwards. of all
Stationers. Jewellers und Stores
Manufacturers— Thomas db i. a Rcb
& Co LjD.Bunhill Row. Loudon. K.C.
Managing Agents -Norman Baker &
Longhurst. York Stieet. Sydney. .•
Ask for Onotolnk the best for all Pens
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
A simple, old-fashioned, home-made recipe will
make the greyness disappear.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often downright injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a. natural color in a perfectly harmless
manner. You have only to get two ounces
of tammnlito concentrate from your chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum to
prove this. Apply this simple and harmless
lotion for a few nights to tlje hair with a
small sponge and the greyness will gradually
disappear. .The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy, and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in posses-
sion of the formula.-— Advt.
THE: GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
gout "
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM. GOUT, LUMBAGO.
SCIATICA ami MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 226 Strand. London.
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, fust off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS,.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
Yaidleys
Shaving Stick
'TheStickintheGlass Case
'v £ iiiis? m\i
i
" 1.1 M
lupnllllil ill! 11l
rr*
r S
I
The Stick in
the Glass Case.
The Glass Case is Hygienic (it
can be washed) and distinguishes
Yardley’s Shaving Stick. The
Soap is made in England, but
the Yardlev lather that really
eases the shave is made daily on
thousands of chins all over the
world.
British Soap made by
8 NEW BOND STREET, LONDON.
BosiocJL
BOOTS are the smart wear for thc j season
—Dame Fashion has cast that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts off this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
in the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of t'eet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
picnics and excursions in the most blazing
weather.
Bostoek No.
P 6141
'©■ *
\ i » ' ' IBm
<§>
mmMmm
■ V.
mm
None genuine
unless stamped
“Rostock.”
A charming selection of Bostock shoes
always on view at all leading stores.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
A BOOT POLISH Should PRESERVE
AS WELL AS POLISH LEATHER.
Rrtvtrt/-lr’c Vlala fr.im for Patent Leather and Glace Kid, is a scientific
DuolvLlV 4 * 1010 VI Eulll, emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the
leather soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and ensuring long life to the boot.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, White.
In 2-oz. Tubes, 6d.; 4-oz. Bottles, 1/-. Sold Everywhere.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. —SYDNEY.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Id Or Maintenance, Repairs. Renewals of Rifting: Ropes and
other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing: and High-pressure Stocks
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, Sydney. A. MAINE HERON, Manager.
“Rustler’’: Melbourne has lost its ghost.
For many years the little Egyptian Hall in
Exhibition-street, opposite the Eastern Mar-
ket, has provided a ghost-sliow every Friday
and Saturday night, "and although the “play"
was changed weekly the ghost remained the
same. It was a “thruppenny” touch and
lasted 15 minutes. A free juggling enter-
tainment used to be provided outside the hall
to attract the crowd. The hall provided
seating accommodation for about ten and
standing room for about 20. and, as tlie
spruiker used to announce, "If you can’t
get a seat you can have a grand stand." The
little hall has not entirely severed its connec-
tion with the theatrical business, as it is
now occupied by poster-painters.
Sydney’s native-born playwright, Haddou
Chambers, who was included in a London
list of lazy dramatists who had done nothing
to keep up the spirits of the nation during
1910, retorts: "The writing of a. play calls
for intensive and prolonged concentration,
and I don’t think a playwright can fairly be
blamed if he fails to concentrate in such
times as these.” Chambers doubts whether
many of the regular dramatists are really
holding over new plays until the arrival of
the piping times of Peace. But if they did,
who, he asks, could blame them? In the
early period of the war he produced a play
in London —“The Impossible Woman," at
the llhymarket—and he never wants such
an "unforgettable experience” again.
"J.F.H.” (London): To what base uses!
Covent. Garden, tie' home
of Grand Oper-r, the scene of Melba’s most
triumphant trillings, has been taken over by
the Government and converted into a furni-
ture warehouse. It is, by the way, the only
London theatre that has been closed continu-
ously since the Huns broke loose —barring
one fortnight when the rats were shooed off
the premises to make room for a fancy fair
in aid of a war charity.
"K.”: The beautiful film actress has to
do strange things for her dollars. Enid
Bennett, who went to the U.S. with the
Niblos and got on with the Triangle people,
lately had to run along a Noo Yark street
in tiie stage rags of a newsboy while the
pursuing camera filmed the chase from a
motor. Here the press-agent intrudes with
a postscript that the genuine newsboys
thought the pretty Australian girl was a
paper pirate and were starting to beat her
off their pitch when the camera men came
ui). Nix ! Any paper kid who allowed him-
self to he taken in by a movie fake at this
time of day would be declared bogus by his
union.
“Peter Pan” had scored 1880 not out in
London a few weeks back. George Shelton,
cast as the ribald pirate Smee, had answered
his name at every performance.
“Masetto”: Mention of Madge Tither-
adge's mother playing principal boy in an
English provincial panto, brings to mind
that I saw her as a p.b. in ’79 at Melbourne
Opera House. The piece there that year
was “Robinson Crusoe.” Other principals
were Maggie Knight (as a pirate
chief), 11. .T. Roberts (Dame), and
the sisters Duvalli. Madge’s parent was
billed as Alma Santon. That year saw three
pantos, in Melbourne, the others being "Cin-
derella” at the Academy of Music and
"Babes in the Wood” at the Royal. Bland
Holt playing the clown.
“E.T.”: Ethel Irving, who has found it
hard to get plays to suit her since she toured
Australia, has at last a promising novelty—
a comedy called “The Double Event.” Ethel
appears as a lady painter who is supposed
to be winning fame and fortune in London
by the success of her pictures, when all the
while she is- making her money as a lady
bookie. The Queen's Theatre, Shaftesbury-
avenue, is where this amazing double is
being brought off.
C. L. Ycarsley. publicity man for Union
pictures in N. S. Wales, returns to U.S.A.
He was a very mild Yank—there are some
of . them—and when the Advertising Men’s
Institute of Sydney handed him its first gold
badge the other night, wrapped up in Presi-
dent Harry Teare’s felicitations, he was as
diplomatic as Woodrow Wilson. Thousand
a year the Union people paid him. Go on
the ad. young man.
Sarah Bernhardt has been playing Shy-
lock (in French) in New York. She had but
a success of curiosity, as the French call it.
“Only her genius saved her from relentless
mirth,” says one critic. “She looked like
one of the witches from ‘Macbeth’ escaped
into the court-room of ‘The Merchant of
Venice,’ ” says another, though he confesses
that “once or twice she resembled a femin-
ised Irving.”
“Fax”: One of the first American com-
edies to be staged in Britain—by the late
W. -T. Florence —was titled “The Mighty
Dollar,” and satirised the social and political
deification of the great national token.
Since then the Dollar has been the pivot of
the plots of hundreds of popular "Murkan
comedies, and it is rarely missing from film
dramas born in the States. Take the plot of
“Jealousy,” a recent film from New Yark:
Ann decides to win Roland Carney from his wife.
She learns a way by which she thinks he can make
u fortune in the stock market at the expense of her
own husband and she gives the tip to Carney. But
the husband discovers her duplicity and turns the
market against Carney, etc., etc.
Thus doth the small boy in the back seats
acquire the ambition to serve his country as
a stockbroker, and ruin the other fellow. A
film that satirised the Dollar greed wouldn’t
pay for the photographing.
“Private Boxer” : Musical comedy pur-
veyors, having been continually “chipped”
about the absence of plot in their produc-
tions. are laying hands on old plays and
sticking in a few song-an’-dance numbers.
A crude method, but it saves the fag of in-
venting a story, “The Pink Lady,” for in-
stance, was adapted b.V McClellan (perpe-
trator of “The Belle of No Yark”) from a
cerulean French farce called “Le Satyr.”
And “Very Good Eddie” used to be a not-
so-very-good -Amurkan farce-comedy which
wilted*under the title of “Overnight.”


m
m
i
lift
*3’/.
m
W
is
m
r
H
5^
mtc
rn-mj)
PLANT well in that which in the after years will be
" their “Garden of Memories.” Do not let this “Garden”
be just an echo— let it live.
A subtle snatch of song brings back to
vision the days where a mother moved
and sang And now, through the ringing
grooves ot time is wrought a change
a marvel Into the lives of your children
the Beale Kalophone brings the great
works of the great masters with life-like
famibarity —daily figures of contact to
be enjoyed and loved. Can you deny
your little ones such unlimited pleasure
such opportunities for building-up
music-love in their natures? '
Call at our showrooms and hear how
the Beale Kalophone re-creates the
efforts of your favorite artist. Prices
from £3 3 0.
T'nGOle
Wc* C 9 \J.v/
R
V\
Head Office and factory :
I 4- RaFALGAR street
annandale
Showrooms :
333 George Street, SYDNEY
Branches at —
BATHURST. ORANGE LISMORE. NEWCASTLE. GOULBURN WAGGA. VICTORIA:
MAPLES, ir all Melbourne Suburbs TASMANIA WILLIAMS BROS. Hobart.
MAPLES. Launcesron. S AUSTRALIA • JOHN EVANS. LTD., Adela.de.
QUEENSLAND: 90-9?. Queer Street. BRISBANE. Kent Street,
MARYBOROUGH Flinders Street, TOWNSVILLE.
ROCKHAMPTON Sydney Street, MACKAY
CAIRNS.
.i
r.
D
-Si.


V
KEEPING
FIT ■
'Roman
Rings,
Dumbells
and
Indian Clubs
will develop the
muscles and add to
the chest measurement
of the man who lives a
sedentary life and who
never takes exercise or
exerts himself physically,
but
FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
I ' THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
develops brain power, energy,
strengthens the nerves and
aids the digestion.
It also banishes Headache,
Backache, Malaria, Rheuma-
tism and Neuralgia, and
compensates the system for
the waste occasioned by tod
violent exercise or prolonged
physical exertion.
STRONG IN DIGESTIVES
RICH IN PHOSPHATES
ALL CHEMISTS & STORES
■f /• per Bottle. Four times the quantity 2/6
Chemists,
337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FASSS
THE DEAF
HEAR!
;
Mi
m
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment-the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
i ... „ and powerful as the old
model Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 (iEORQE STREET
Tel. 8910 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
VARICOSE VEINS,
WEAK LEGS AND JOINTS.
THE VAROX SUPPORT is an Entirely
New Method of dealing with Varicose
Veins and any Leg Weakness. Instant
Relief is obtained, together with Perfect
Ease and Comfort.
'•UK ><
It is a laced
appliance,
which gives
equality of
pressure at
i every point,
and can be
regulated
to the com-
fo r t of
wearer. It
always
keeps in po-
sition, can
b e easily
put on and
sdf
Catalogue
Posted Free
taken off.
Will last for years.
and Self-Measurement Chart
on Application.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
sdf
Marbles
JOINTED RIFLE ROD
Strong, stiff, rigid, as a
one-piece rod, yet can be
taken apart in a minute and
packed in a compact case—
sd
I
3
a,
easily carried
in pocket or
belt. Made of
brass or steel
will last a
lifetime. Note
the construc-
tion. Connec-
tions are of steel. Dowels
relieve screws of all side strain
and give perfect rigidity. Pat-
ented steel swivel permits
cleaner or cloth to revolve and
follow rifling—gets every par-
ticle of dirt.
RIFLE CLEANER
gets every speck of lead,
rust and powder crust. Goes
right into angles of grooves,
cleaning and polishing them
thoroughly. Most efficient
cleaner ever invented.
Ask your dealer for these
Rifle Rods and Cleaners.
Complete illustrated catalogue
of Marble's "Sixty Sporting
Specialties” sent postpaid on
request.
"®i 13/IIfIS'SIHUT T33US 'SNDUJias SSBMfI
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co.
611 Delta Avenue
Gladstone, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address "Marble" Gladstone
Australian & New Zealand Rep’aenfc’s
HARRY MQLOEN, Box 1349, SYDNEY
<1»8)
fsd
Officers,
%
V
1
Musketry Instructors —
Surveyors, Prospectors, Sportsmen,
Will you test
this PocKet Range-Finder
for a week?
All you need to do is to write for the Range-Finder,
enclosing your cheque or money order for £3 55.. and we
will send the instrument, complete in leather belt-case,
post free and fully insured, by return. If. after testing
it for seven days, you are not entirely satisfied and return
the instrument in good condition, we will refund your
money.
With the Hymans Pocket Range-Finder you can take the range of any object
within 2 per cent, of error, with a base of only 5 or 10 yards. Also, where the
height or width of object Is known, operator need not even move when taking range.
This makes the instrument invaluable for rapid sea and river navigation, etc. Xo
technical knowledge is needed; range may be taken in a few seconds. The instrument
is of simple construction, strong, weighs only 4 ounces, and can’ easily be carried
in the waistcoat pocket.
IT HAS BEEN APPROVED BY AND SUPPLIED TO H.M. WAR OFFICE
and to upwards of 2000 individual officers.
Here is one of a large number of unsolicited Testimonials:
"It is a most useful little instrument, especially in this
country of hills and valleys, where distances are so decep-
tive. / have tried it at all ranges up to 6000 yards, and
the results have astonished me. I shall certainly bring it
to the notice of other gunner officers.”
—Major , R.F.A., Salonika Field Force.
THE POCKET
RANGE-FINDER
(PATENT No. 4493/18).
PRICE,
including
Reg dl Post
full War-risk
insurance,
£3-5-0
Send cheque to-day, or write for free descriptive leaflet to the Patentee and
Manufacturer--
CHAS. HYMANS, Dept. 21, CAMBRIDGE
ENGLAND
0
$4
V
‘
• M
The BULLETIN”
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
The two most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They both have
Pigskin Seat, the “GS” short panel with
leather points, long: flaps and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
Stirrups, Girth, Leathers and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle.
Freight Free for Cash to Any Port or Rail-
way Station in N.S.W. For 3s. 6d. extra
for easing we will send Freight Free to any
direct port in Queensland, Victoria, South
Australia, N.Z. or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 11/6, SADDLECLOTH 6/6,
BREASTPLATE 8/-
If Ordered with Saddle. Otherwise Is. each
Extra for Postage.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
Walther U Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS
393 Ceorgre Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
fsdf
Tk SIGNS of SUPERIORITY
in Blue and Black Serges, Coatings,
and Dress materials are proclaimed
by the trade-marks here illustrated.
Every yard of
Genuine FOX Serges
bears these trade-marks. Ask for
“Fox” Serges—look for the trade- ■
marks—insist on these guarantees of
quality.
Manufactured by FOX Brothers & Co. Ltd., Somerset,
Lug. If you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally write
the agents Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802
0.P.0., Sydney, who will toll you the nearest store-
keeper stocking it.
Don’t Lose Your Temper
with a Razor that loses its edge. Buy a Razor that
keeps its edge, and keep your temper.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is one of the very few makes that a shaver can rely
on. The marvellous finish and tempering of the blade
has made it a friend indeed to thousands.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21 /-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “Plum” Razor
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
MacD.B.: Well, suppose the Nationalist
candidate is a Protectionist, what hope has he got
of voting for a Protective tariff so long as the
Government is led by Hughes, Cook and Milled* all
Freetraders?. .. .0.H.0.: Yes; it does.... A. Blok:
Ever hear of the Censor ?.... Buzfuz: No good unless
you state the Ideality... .P.W.: (1) But he might
have the luck to strike a male every time he tried
the experiment; (2) where did he start for and
what on ? We’re not gifted with second sight....
Geelong: Can’t recall it... . No. 2883: Thanks for
clipping. .. .Wheatstone: Have forwarded suggestion
to the manufacturers... .G.L.H.: Oh, yes, The B.
has made the point often; and both parties have
abandoned the 100 p.c. tax proposal... .Marjorie F.:
Don’t care about parodies; try something else....
Daybreak: That’s a matter which ought to be sub-
mitted to the Defence Department.... Rob. F. 8.:
Everybody’s Magazine didn’t know Hughes as Aus-
tralia knows him. Neither did the Id. papers nor
the tuppenny duchesses in London... .J.K.L.: You
may have the materia], but you must learn to write.
. . . .E.N.: Your taste is a trifle unusual:—
I’m awfully keen on Boxing Matches,
I’m off to the Stadium to-night,
As a man hits so a woman scratches,
I’d rather see two women fight.
There’s sarcasm, smiles, innuendoes,
A swift stinging answer back,
Soft voices rising to high crescendo
And then the final smack.
The air’s red hot; fierce words fall fast,
Yet there are no bones broken.
It’s good to hear them swear and blast
And know they’re only joking.
E.C.: Yarn too obvious. Wants a surprise
somewhere in its tail to make it go W. 8.:
“Haunted” bumps itself all to pieces Corp: No,
it won’t do. You haven’t even contrived to follow
Omar’s easy metre C.M.C.: Nothing in it....
E. : Heavy fooling. .. .Buyar: Doesn’t got
there. . . .K.S.P.: Much too long. . . .F.P.: “The
Poet” is machine-made stuff faintly amusing in
spots. .. . A.R.8.: Makings of a story; but you
seemed to get tired and rush things after a good
opening... .C.M.C.: Doesn’t convince. .. .H.V.E.:
Old story not improved in the telling... .J. A.: The
tin ghost yarn is pretty impossible; but get hold of
a subject and you will probably do well Mr.
Pickwick: Feeble stuff with a very small point....
L.F.G.: Only sentimental interest in the verses.
Prose yarn thin. . . .11.H.H.: The “Boob” wobbles too
much.... Buzfuz: Yarn- runs too confidently in the
wrong direction. “Succession” wants better hand-
ling F.V.M.: Well enough done if you didn’t father
the absurdity on an Anzac. ... Daybreak: Rather
noisy commonplace Soma: “The Hills” have a
hint of music, but not enough of it. .. .M.: “Love’s
V ictory” misses. Take more pains with your verse
It nearly gets there 8.C.: Not up.'. . .H.M.C. :
“His Duty” is a sermon, not a story... .J.A.K.:
Dull story that doesn’t convince,... .L. 8.: All right;
try again. But don’t misunderstand. It is not the
“sloppy love stunt” we want. That was what you
gave us. . . .E.M.F.: But why make dad an American?
. ...H.P.G.: Sounds like a municipal road-roller
trying to sing Paradox: You want to get some
life and interest into those rascals. .. .J.C.: Verse
all hops and wriggles V.E.F.M.: To get past, a
thing like that in blank verse would require "*lO be
astonishingly well done. .. .P.M.F.: N 0... .A.W.V K
Not well enough done. .. .S.E.N.: Mild little sonnet
which says nothing much J.K.: Sounds like a
conundrum of the old rhyming sort... .E.J.: Rather
rough on the girl whose heart is a “harvest field”
to have the Lord coming with a “weavel.” Now if
it were the Devil one could understand it. .. .S.C.M.:
No picture-plav or Garviee novel could be worse than
that. .. .R.D.: There is an unusual note in it:—
There is only one man that I gave mv love,
I hough he has left me and gone away,
But that love remains true,
Until the last day or two,
When my poor body shall have turned to clay.
V -HAY. The sketch is as bad as the verse.
G.R.C.: Your “Heroic Slacker” is lamentable verse.
•■. .Broken Bill: Nothing in it. .. .W.E.H.: Out
F. :As far as we call read the spider-legged
’scrawl it is pretty awful. .. .J.K.: You deserve +o
milk cows if a moment’s release from the job causes
you to write verse like that D.L.S.: There’s a
thrill in every line of it. Sample:—
There off he begins to shout,
And the racer .started going some,
Thoms 8 a Whir and he st °PP ed dead or there-
And I heard Pete cry “O Lum.”
So I turned and had a gaze,
And I saw Old Pete had fainted,
But slowly his eyelids did raise
And he murmured “I forgot to wind him u P :”
• • A^;: Idpas raffed and verse all to pieces....
R.M.P.: Death ’ dropped dead. .. . J.H.: Won’t do.
How many syllables in Aphrodite? Don’t use words
you cant pronounce A.G.J.: N 0.... Leigh : Ask
the paper you complain about. We haven’t time
to go round and interview the editor. Perhaps
it hasn’t got an editor. .. .C.G.: That sheep-roasting
yarn is worth writing. Why didn’t you do it?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Carwin: It lias been said before.... Mac: You
can’t flv that one here Max II.: The time has
passed for such jests.... Sunburnt: You are a begin-
ner, but not a starter Fred A..: Tile fair girl’s
neck is too thick G.D.: Can’t use then"....
Albert Mel.: Give yourself another five years....
M.E.P.: Unsuitable Sams: Too raw. ...D.P.:
Back to your drawing-board ! The time is not > r et
ripe... .R.M.: No begorras required to-day....
M.L.Iv.: Out... .C.P.: Going home... .11.A.C.:
You’re not up to the job.
[lf anything in this column requires a signature,
P RIOR -> John Barr, E. O’Ferrall and D.
M. Wright, of 214 George Street, Sydney, accent
the responsibility.]
As a platform speaker George Fairbairn
i.s the also-ran among the Vic. candidates.
His remarks consist of a buzz and a mumble
addressed to the front seats, and when asked
a question he has the extraordinary habit of
turning up the answer on a handy list—any-
way, he straightway proceeds to look up his
notes. Still, “man looketh on the outward
appearance,” and it is quite possible that
George Fairbairn has plenty of brains in the
right place, even though he doesn’t know
how to use 'em at the right time.


n
11l I
mwhM|iSpll§l|R®
1
■'...
H
; A
lfi'fii’®." 1 '. - ’TV t ''
BE**’’
ir |
. - j ■ ■
AWNOPNCING THE ADVENT.
Picture to yourself that dramatic moment when the scientist knows that he has brought into
being a new synthetic substance.
Conceive, if you can, the intensity of satisfaction that comes with the sense of having created.
Imagine such a scene enacted in the laboratories of the great Goodyear plant at Akron.
A SCIENTIFIC ACHIEVEMENT.
If you can visualise the event, and the enthusiasm that followed it
you will know something of what it meant to us to announce the advent
of Xeolin.
Xeolin is literally a new substance of incalculable economic value.
Less than two years ago it did not exist; to-day it is thoroughly
established on two continents—a new, a practical and a proven product,
destined to play a part in the daily lives of millions of homes.
Xeolin is not leather.
It is not rubber.
It is not a substitute for leather.
It is not a substitute for rubber.
•It is—Xeolin.
The substance is new, the name is new.
Tt is an entirely new production.
Xeolin is better than leather.
It is better because it is waterproof.
It is better because it is more flexible.
It is light. It is strong. It is durable.
It is reliable because it is always the same.
It will not take the place of leather in all the uses to which the
latter is applied.
It will not even take the place of any considerable number of these
uses.
But Xeolin will displace leather in some of the largest and widest
fields which leather now fills.
IT MEANS BETTER BOOTS 8 SHOES.
Xeolin should, for instance, replace leather soles on every single pair
of boots or shoes for adult wear retailed for 10/- or over.
It should replace leather soles on such boots or shoes because it is
obviously better and more desirable in every way.
More than two hundred of the greatest shoe manufacturers in
America saw the immense market for Xeolin immediately.
These men are all masters of shoe design and construction they
know what the human foot requires.
They did not need to be told about Xeolin —they saw at once its
tremendous economic importance.
They are telling the Xeolin story now through their salesmen —
they will use Xeolin in their own products.
Xeolin has taken the virtues of leather and carried them still further.
AN IMPROVEMENT ON LEATHER.
Where leather was deficient Xeolin has created new virtues.
It is not like anything that you have ever tried, or known,-or heard
of.
This announcement is merely to tell you that Xeolin is coming.
It is to prepare your mind for a new element of ease and comfort
and economy.
Familiarise yourself with the name, because it is destined to be a
household word.
Xeolin.
Better than leather.
Hep] in , the trade symbol and registered name of a changeless quality product of Goodyear, now obtainable from
The Goodyear Tyre &. Rubber Co.
of Australasia Ltd.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
6 Chesser Street, Adelaide, S.A.
103 St. George's Terrace, Perth, W.A.
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Q.
6 Mercer Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Neolin is now obtainable on Boots and Shoes. If you have any difficulty in
obtaining Neolin-soled Footwear write to the nearest Goodyear .branch or agency.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
2,4, G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
‘ROCKHAMPTON
(P-t. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOICTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, April 28.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May 2.
Leaves Sydney, May 5.
BURWAII (Cargo Only).
Leaves Melbourne, May 8.
Leaves Sydney, May 12.
MELBOURNE . A
(Transhipping for
S. A”, and W. A. ports) J
* Passengers only.
SOUTH.
OOOMA (4000 Tons)
Leaves Sydney, Maj
Foil Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Australian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Ud £1,198,679
RESERVE FUND £95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney,
LONDON.OFFICE: 37 Thread needle Street, IC.C.
DIRECTORS— Mack Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lvsagiit, F,.sq.; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: TITOS. WELSBY, (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E: H. MACARTNEY, M.L A •
Hon. Sir ROBERT PITILP, Iv.C.M.G. ; Hon. A .1
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. . . . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edvvd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. V. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking jjo.
of Sydney, [imited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up . .
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital . .
£2,000,000 0 0
1.900,000 0 0
2,000.000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. IT. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: IT. TI. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDA T EY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of j)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. Ne»' Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY. Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIDS, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to U.S.A.
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around thq World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU , of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
SometHing' Unique in
sd
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
.Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PMILP' & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,705.320
£2,725.000
£3.705,320
£10,135,640
The Hon. Sir Charles iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Han. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbei'j
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
C.M.
M.L.C.
G
iI.E.C.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; \V. 11. Palmer, Esq. ,
Head Office—Georgo St., Sydney. , London Office -29 Thread needle St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, , Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
-T.. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commomvealtf:
I HEAD OFFICE
3ST
JBank Australia
SYDNEY. I
for e a "n General Banking: Business princ&i
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/'
At all Branches, and over
2600 A S encies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at 0 0 /
per annum v */o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Depurr Governor.
DEN i SON MILLER Governor
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—-
4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1010. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH. Manager.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
AVON
A . TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
RUPARA, Saturday, April 28.
PARING A, Saturday, May 5.
MORIALTA, Saturday, May 12.
1 1 allshipping to all other Queensland Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company - Office.
G. S. YUIITL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast. Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Wimmera,"
“ Ulimaroa,” “Victoria.”
“Riverina,” “Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
- Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMPORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
20 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
■J"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
• HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
liience to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwdllumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
-reamer. £6 Bs. fid.: second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
I .5.5. “ INDARRA ”
T. 5.5. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ YVYANDRA”
... 10,0C0 tons
... 6500 tons
... 6500 tons
... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade ;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED.
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


KODAK PICTURES
mean Happier holidays
Add to the pleasures of every outing by
making happy Kodak snapshots of all you see.
Autographic Kodak pictures are delightful to
make and will never let you forget the best
times of your life.
Besides, witk a Kodak you can send your
soldier friends what tkey’ll value most-
glimpses of Home taken Witk your Kodak.
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak is splendid for
views, groups, portraits, etc. Takes the popular postcard
pictures, 5-| x3J inches. Price £5 10s.
Other Autographic Kodaks from 30|= to £l5 2s.
Ask for YOUR copy of a splendidly-illustrated booklet: j
“Picture Making with a Kodak.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS, AND
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Block," 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane. 37 Bundle St., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart. Ruthven St.,
Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. Denham St., Rockhampton. 3-J6 Argent St., Broken
Hill. Dixon St., also corner Eambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z. 3 Lome St.,
Auckland, N.Z., and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
V
■sa
m
r .
;
K:.
)
.
It’s your Figure—not your Face
that tells your Age.”
A FAMOUS woman specialist who had studied women for years made this
startling statement three years ago. We asked dozens of women who had
worn Gossards for more than ten years if they believed this and they
all said “Yes.”
Many a girl of 20 years has the figure of a matron of 45. Many a matron of
45—thanks to her'Gossard has the youthful figure of 25 summers because
of her Gossard. If a Gossard did nothing but make you look as young as you
feel, it would be worth double its cost.
Ideal Large Above and
Below Waistline Figures
■ if
Many models for these figures confine
the shoulders, have .ample fullness in
front at top. The figure above the
waist-line rests in the corset, not over
it. Below the waist, when hips are
large, special models confine and reduce
immediately. Elastic inserts, special
materials and clever designing are appre-
ciated by all women who require special
corseting either above or below the
waist-line.
An expert Corsetiere who undesrtands
your figure requirements will deem it
a pleasure to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women of Australia
and New Zealand by
Allan & Stark, Ltd.,
Brisbane, Australia.
J. Ballantyne & Co.,
Cashel Street. Christchurch. N.Z.
Stafford Street, Timaru, N.Z.
Bucklev & Nunn, Ltd.,
295-312 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Australia.
Harry Davies Co.,
Ballarat, Australia.
Drapery & General Importing Co. of
New Zealand, Ltd.,
Lyttelton, N.Z.
Wellington, N.Z.
Farmer & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Australia
James Marshall & Co.,
Adelaide, Australia.
Milne & Choyce, Ltd.,
Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
Ideal
Large Below
Waistline Figure.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd.,
King and George Streets, Sydney, Australia.
Ideal
Large Above
Waistline Figure.
;• •; ' \
4,!” E&
’ '/£, >. - ;
I ■!•£.•.£«• ••••. •;" i ‘
■
■ v-.,. ,
■
;■
v •;- a
- \ '.V, > ' " *•
fsd


Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 16th April, 1917.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL
COLLEGE.
Application for Entry as Cadet
Midshipman.
[’PLICATIONS for entry into the Royal
Australian Naval College, Jervis Bay,
N.S.W.. as Cadet Midshipmen will be received
by the Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Mel-
bourne, up to ,'JOth June, 1917, from Boys
born in 1904.
Forms of application and full particulars
may be obtained on application to the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne*; or to
the —
District Naval Officer, Brisbane.
District Naval Officer, Edgecliffe, Sydney.
District Naval Officer, Port Melbourne.
District Naval Officer, Birkenhead, S.A.
District Naval Officer, Fremantle, W.A.
District Naval Officer, Hobart, Tasmania.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
BEATS TRAIN SCHEDULE.
33 MILES IN 49 MINUTES. 50 MILES AN HOUR. UP HILL.
&/>e CHandler «Six
Thirty-throe miles in 49 minutes that’s some run f
A party of Topeka “ capital ” men headed for the
K.U.-Aggie Football game, missed the 1.15 Santa Fe,
C. G. Blakely, jun., agent for THE CHANDLER f
volunteered to drive them to Lawrence in a
Chandler Six.
The ear left Kanas Avenue and Eighth Street at 1.18,
THE CHANDLER
ana arove over the South Road, making the trip of
33 miies in 49 minutes Rat, one minute faster than
the train schedule.
The highest speed attained was 60 miles an hour.
The big hill, about eight miles out of Lawrence, was
climbed at a speed of 50 miles an hour.
GEARS WERE NOT SHIFTED THE ENTIRE TRIP!
SIX - - £.490
SOLE AGENTS
Marcus Clark & Co. Ltd.
GARAGE and
SHOWROOMS,
Telephone: City 8862.
162 Castlereagh St., Sydney
IN BANANA LAND
r a tribute to Labor legislation in the
North, Mt. Morgan has raised a strike over
preference to unionists, Townsville sits in
darkness through a gas strike, the Brisbane
bacon business is paralysed by a trade dispute,
Bundamba miners have stopped work over
the sacking of a man, and the Queensland
Railways are in a state of perturbation that
looks uncommonly like a prelude to downing
tools.
Very few records in Queensland can be
produced to beat that of Mrs. Margaret
Green, of Toowoomba, who passed out a few
days ago. leaving seven sons, two daughters,
30 grandchildren and 40 great grandchildren.
The fervor of a torrid climate wiped the old
lady out at the untimely age of 97.
A citizen of Petrie Terrace (Brisbane)
advertised in a daily paper for a wife, and
the circumstance that he counted 64 years
to his credit may have accounted for the
fact that he received 200 replies. Somehow
lie contrived to marry a sedate applicant of
65, although—as he admitted in court —he
only wanted “a good-looking lady of 45.”
Result— desertion, police court and an order
for 12s 6d. a week.
Just introduced into Bananaland, a fly
alleged to destroy that pestilential growth,
the lantana. This bramble was introduced
into the country to act as a hedge or lawn
adornment, but getting out of hand has now
covered wide acres of good land. The fly
has been let loose in three infested regions,
but whether it will start on the lantana
when it sees better food about or what it
will eat when the lantana is finished, has
still to be discovered.
The days of the blowfly appear to be num-
bered. According to experiments made by
the Agricultural Department at the Gindie
State Farm 300 flips were mustered in 40
minutes in one of the traps invented by Mr.
Higgins, of Wyandra. Another trap, similar
in effect, is also being given a trial; also
nine different dips with a battery of six
dressings. Between the lot the sheep-men
have high hopes of at least checking the
pest.
“Bromide” : “Australia Jane,” in reporting
the death of a Brisbane citizen from tetanus
(B. 32/4/’l7), mentions the fact that the
disease developed after a mere tap on the
finger with a hammer. Much less than this
can cause tetanus—even so little as a pin-
prick. The essential agent is the presence
of the causative bacterium —the bacillus
tetani. This wag lies in ambush in manured
soils and on rusty nails for choice, and is
prevalent in the dust of roads. Once it has .
penetrated the tissues it takes as long as 20
days to manufacture sufficient toxin to cause
lockjaw. The popular belief that tetanus
only follows on a wound of the web of the
thumb is inaccurate, as it can develop after
a lesion in any part of the body, provided
that it is infected by B. Tetani. Another
peculiarity about the bacillus is that it can’t
multiply when exposed to the oxygen in the
air, hence it has to be buried deep in the
tissues.
Sixty-two years was all W. A. Robinson,
of Coorparoo, could endure the blighting
Queensland climate; he passed out a day or
two ago at the brief age of 90. Robinson
was Kentish born, and dropped into Banana-
land on the Ascendant in ’55 after a record
rough passage of 107 days. Following a spell
at Doughty Creek, he and his wife padded it
to Maryborough, then south to dabble exten-
sively in dairying for 58 years. The sturdy
pair produced If children, who responded by
presenting them with GO grandchildren and
48 great-grandchildren.
The management of Blackheath Colliery
got rid of a man the other day on the
ground that he was superfluous. The em-
ployees alleged victimisation and went on
strike—2oo of them. What the outcome will
be no one knows, but this everybody ought
to know: the efficient running of any busi-
ness rests ultimately on the right to sack
any individual who is incapable or insuffi-
ciently occupied. The prohibition of sack-
ing means in the long run the stoppage of
employment.
“Politicals”: Bnnanaland railways having
made a loss of £610,000 last yea i\ the" Arbi-
tration Court is being invited to consider
EXPECTING TOO MUCH.
“low go by here with your nose in the air, as if you didn’t owe me a penny!”
“.Well, great Scott! Do you want me to have it amputated and trail it behind me just
because I owe you a coupler quid?”
whether working hours should not be reduced
from 48 to 44 per week. This division of
responsibility is no good. The authority
which prescribes something that costs, say,
an extra quarter of a million a year ought
to be obliged to say where that quarter-
million is to come from. The position is not
the same as with a private concern. If the
private concern cannot pay what an Arbitra-
tion Court declares to be the proper thing,
or work under what it rules to be proper
conditions, it can at the worst go out of
business, as perhaps it ought to do in such
circumstances. But these railways, being
public utilities, cannot go out of business.
Therefore, when a competent authority says
that the Railways shall pay out a quarter of
a million, it should be required to let the
people know exactly what the award means
by declaring how the money shall be got so
that the business may still be carried on.
The Song Unheard.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We gazed upon Orion’s crest
That sank in splendor down the West;
We saw the lamps of Sirius shine
Futil the deeps grew half divine;
We swept afar in splendid march
Along old Scorpion's jewelled arch;
Entranced we tracked in graceful line
The starry windings serpentine;
And, lifted by the glory clear,
That swam around, afar, anear,
“I wis,” lie said, ‘‘this is the hour
To lift a psalm to Him, the Power,
“Who lit the Planets for us all
And spangled high that noble hall;
Who spread the star-dust down the ways
And kindled that immortal blaze.”
And still I stood in wide amaze
To hear him pipe his puny praise;
For lifted high in song sublime
My soul was singing all the time.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BOHN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. April 21, 1917.
My Dear Tiiargoaiindah,—
The G.-G. dropped in to-night to keep his
promises and add dclat (no extra charge for
that) to the St. George concert and the
Anzac Day celebrations. He is booked to
return to the wintry South next Thursday.
Local Sassiety rolled up in force to-day to
farewell the late Judge Rutledge’s widow,
who left for Melbourne in the Arawatta.
Roses and dahlias were piled into her cabin
by the armful while the overworked stewards
turned up their eyes and said “ ’Ow lovely!”
She has been an energetic worker in many
directions that lead to the soldier’s welfare.
The Red Cross Society, the Wattle Day
League, the Women’s College and the Lady
Lamington Hospital all lose a committee
member by this lady’s departure. So does
the Methodist Women’s Foreign Mission
Society. The heathen in his blindness
engages their attention.
Dr. John Hardie MaArthur, formerly on
the staff at Goodna Mental Hospital, has
been appointed acting superintendent of the
Dunwich home for unfortunates, in place of
Dr. Row, resigned.
Killed in France, Pte. Colin Campbell
Groom, youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Groom, of Toowoomba, and grandson of an
old Speaker of ours. He spent his 21st
birthday at Ismailia, was wounded at
Pozieres, recovered and returned to the
trenches, was again wounded, and for the
third time got back to the thick of it. Death
won from the gallant player on this throw.
Capt. Herbert Watson, of Darriveen, Long-
reach, who won his third star and the Mili-
tary Cross in France, was educated at Syd-
ney Grammar School and Uni. He left
Bananaland as a trooper in a regiment of
Light Horse, and was promoted from the
ranks after the Evacuation.
Barrister Tom Macleod, who is a captain
in the R.F.C., has planned a new gun-mount-
ing for aeroplanes, and it is receiving more
than friendly interest from the “heads.”
On Wednesday Gladys Hicks, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Hicks,
had her name changed to Messervy. She made
no objection. The deed was done at her
parents’ home at Milton, and for the occa-
sion she wore French net over satin, the
train of the frock being lined with pale
pink. The bodice had touches of pink and
silver. Sister Beatrice was a brand-new
bridesmaid all in pink. The bridegroom wore
undyed hair, leather gloves on his feet, a coat
and sundries. Mrs. Hicks was in rose du
Barri silk and black ninon, and looked almost
as old as her daughters. The decorations
were pink carnations and roses.
On the same day Grace Morgan capitu-
lated to Kenneth Dalzell, only son of the
Dalzells of Dalgi. There was no ill-feeling
about the proceedings. The bride was happy
in a tailored coat and skirt of cream serge,
with a little cream velvet lid to match. The
Morgans and the Dalzells, including Mrs.
Sale, of Summer Hill station (she is a
daughter), swelled the wedding party. Syd-
ney, via the Northern Rivers, is the objective
of the honeymooners.
Bundaberg is being enriched with a Tech-
nical College, situated on the river bank. The
first section of the building is to cost £3OOO
or £4OOO. Probably the bill will go into
Posterity’s mail-bag; but Posterity will not
be able to say that provision wasn’t made
for it to learn how to decipher the account.
Our teaching establishments are gradually
increasing in numbers and influence. For
instance, the High School at Tozer Park.
Gympie. will be completed in a few months’
time. It will cost £lO,OOO and accommodate
200 pupils.
A mysterious disease, like cerebro-spinal
meningitis only more so, is raging at Dalby
and Goondiwindi. Scared parents have
packed up their children and fled, and Health
Commissioner Dr. Moore has hurried to the
affected district to see what can be done to
check the outbreak.
Lieut. Hector Ferguson has won the Mili-
tary Cross for gallantry.' Young Ferguson,
who is in the Engineers, of course didn't
breathe a word about the M.C. to his people,
it was other soldiers who wrote. But that’s
only to be expected from one of a family
which has four of its five sons in khaki.
Ferguson, sen., is head of Brisbane’s big
printing house, and he and his wife have
seen that Billjim does not lack for comforts
while in camp at Enoggera, close by.
Mining-secretary George J. Lewis passed
out at Gympie a few days ago. after an
acquaintance with the Northern goldfield that
dated back to the ’Bo’s. Eldest son Ivan
went to S’Africa with Arnold Wienholt a
Couple of years since, and has done good
service against the Hun forces there. The
other two bovs. Cyril and Gerald, belong to
the firm of Billjim and Co., France.
Monica Little, of Brisbane, is pledged to
say “I will” in the near future to Illicit
Browne, of Garomna, in the Hughenden dis-
trict. He is a son of the late Sylvester
Browne, the pioneer squatter.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


f
Model 85
13,000 Sold First 60 Days
The success of this new model
four cylinder Overland car has
grown astonishingly from its first
day. The factory has never caught
up with orders —so great is the
demand.
1 • %
No other four cylinder car in the
world at anywhere near the price of
this new Overland model can equal
it in value.
Note the graceful lines its 112
inch wheelbase gives to it.
Note its body finish - a rich
brown with hood and cover to match.
It combines beauty with effi-
ciency—safety with power —comfort
with economy.
Compare it with other cars in
its price class and note its many
superior qualities.
The beauty of its design the
ease with which it glides along —the
power of its engine—the complete-
ness of its equipment.
Every worth-while feature found
in the highest priced cars is included
in its make-up.
Yet this Overland costs you
considerably less money.
Ask us for a demonstration. Let
us show you why this car proved
itself an instantaneous success.
All Overland Cars have High-Tension Magneto Ignition
2H
rJ
v
Model 85
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from—
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HE AT HORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
Willys-Overland (U.S.fl.) Australasia Ltd., 352 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely I
Vegetable. '
sdf
Carters
Small PHl—Small Dose—Smill Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Recipe to Darken Grey Hair
This Home-made Mixture Darkens Grey
Hair and Relieves Dandruff.
To a half-pint of water add: —
Bay Rum loz.
Orlex Compound a small box
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used.
A half-pint should be enough to darken
the grey hair and relieve dandruff. It does
not stain the scalp, is not sticky or greasy
and does not rub off. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy.— Advt. [4
BELLEVUE
The only Hotel
overlooking
HOTEL, the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNIOAN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
TheCHIASTOLITE
‘ or Luck
r Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10 /6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
ran
Abbey
Shoes!
If you desire a correct and distinc-
tive style for every occasion, you
cannot do better than make a point
of wearing ABBEY SHOES.
You are assured perfection in fit,
as they are made in half- and full-
sizes, and in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate a Tan Willow Calf
Oxford Shoe, with Perforated
Vamp. Very smart and service-
able.
Price - 27/6
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
m
§
X
M
\
<3>
YOUR ONLY WORRY
WITH
SHIRTS
WHICH ONE
NAZETHA
The most effective and
pleasing Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market Street,
SYDNEY; or A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, HOBART.
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
m.
m
M-
t&WML
sri K
“ Ojj
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
m
mm
\t & i -: *i
THE “ SKANDIA ” IN WEST AUSTRALIA.
PEARLING SCHOONER—3O-h.p. “ SKANDIA.”
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
MILK
FOR ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Milk
is more beneficial than
tea, coffee or cocoa,
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par. Ask
for Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
ir
mm**
> AW
Handicapped not at all by the fact that
he is an Anglican parson, and that his middle
name is Pogson, F. P. Bethune, who went off
as a second lieutenant, has won the Military
Cross in France. He was with infantry at
the start, but was recently transferred —an
extra star being added unto him—to a
machine-gun section. Bethune, who is no
chicken—he has seen two-score years at least
—is a Tasmanian.
Tom Power, the Laborite who has been
selected to oppose sitting-member Palmer for
the Echuca seat, is a burly, freckled, blunt-
spoken cocky who has made a hobby of
agricultural machinery and shire councils.
Except for three years spent in tickling the
working parts of jibbing implements with a
little sweet oil and a feather, Power has
spent all his days chasing cockatoos off his
crops and sewing-machine agents off his
doorstep.
The N. S. Wales Labor problem now is:
Who is to pull the levers of the P.L.L.
juggernaut? Before the recent massacres it
had practically been decided (although the
principle had not been definitely placed
among the rules) that politicians should be
denied the right to sit on the Executive. The
strength of this feeling was shown by the
voting for the last election of the Executive,
M’s.L.A. being conspicuously few, even Hol-
man only managing to get through low down
on the list. Now, however, the new politi-
cians (they are, for the most part, the
industrialists who led the attacks on the
power of the old politicians) are disinclined
to get off the footplate, and, having a large
following, hope to hang on to the machine.
Of course there are plenty of other aspiring
Laborites who want to get a leg in; so
there is a nice row pending.
Some Billjims now walk into battle behind
the “creeping barrage” with shrapnel-proof
chain-veils hanging from the front of steel
helmets. Thus do high-explosives send us
spinning round the circle, until we catch up
to the armored knight. Probably the next
Expeditionary Force that leaves England
will be soldered up the night before the
declaration of war, its identification-disc
welded to its breastplate, and the crowded
transport’s manifest will merely show a
cargo of canned Bull.
“K.”: One of the footboard equilibrists
employed by the N. S. Wales Tramways as
conductor toppled off his car last week and
fractured his skull. I didn’t know how
lightly the service regarded falls until a car
I was on was signalled by excited pedes-
trians. The motorman shut off power,
jambed on his brakes and we heard all up
and down the street, “Hey ! your conductor’s
fallen off!” We looked out and saw, half a
block away, a dusty bundle struggling to
its feet. “Tie’s all right,” said the driver;
“you’re not outyer apprenticeship on this
job till you’ve had a hundred falls.” Did
anyone ever discover what tremendous ad-
vantages these cars have over all other cars
in the world to compensate for the tremen-
dous disadvantage that the conductors have
to spend their precarious lives hanging on
to the footboard in all weathers?
When someone was enthusing in public
over the Botanical Gardens in Melbourne
the other day he credited the present cura-
tor with the planning of them. The honor
is due to the late Guilfoyle, and the mis-
take ought to have been made impossible
by a statue to the grand old gardener, now
deceased. The Gardens could do with a
marble image of the man who designed the
lay-out, and a public subscription to that
end should be started by the Excellency
whose back-garden gates open into the
beautiful grounds.
A collection of etchings at Robertson and
Moffat’s (Melb.) invites the attention of the
connoisseur. The first thing to be noted is
“The Temple,” a characteristic thing of the
late Jimmy McNeil Whistler’s. It is a flip-
pant impression wherein Art conceals Art
to the verge of obliteration. Two of Frank
Brangwyn’s impressive effusions, “The Black
Mill” and “London Bridge,” strongly depict
the perspiration of the toiling masses. Frown-
ing down upon Brangwyn are the portentous
nautical things of W. L. Wyllie, R.A. This
etcher is probably registered A 1 at Lloyd’s,
for he is a sort of Debrett of the deep, faith-
fully recording the achievements of liners
and aristocratic ships of war. The excellent
Paul Helleu is represented by one print,
“Looking at the Tanagra Figures.” It
affords a brilliant back view of a lady. Some
of the imposing architecture of the past and
present is attractively shown by Hedley
Fitton; and Charles Watson hangs pleasant
jottings of Continental life and scenery.
Colonel Goff’s “Evening” is a nicely-balanced
composition revealing the creeping mystery
of that time of day. In “Entrevaux” and
“A Sussex Farm” Hester Frood makes the
commonplace decorative, and B. Schumacher,
Samuel Palmer and Frank Short add to the
variety and importance of the show.
It was at a female function in connection
with a patriotic display, and a dominant
dame was crying out against the shameful
embargo which denies women the old facili-
ties of travel. “We shall miss the English
summer again,” she said bitterly, “and I was
so looking forward to another trip. Since I
came back I haven’t been able to get a pair
of stockings fit to put on one’s feet.” You
will find quite a number of the most fervid
female patriots utterly incapable of appreci-
ating the idea that devotion to Australia in-
volves any kind of respect for things Aus-
tralian. Lots of the grand dames who are
whooping up young Australians to die for
Australia wouldn’t wear an Australian hat to
save their lives.
“Fitzshrapnel”: This happened Some-
where. I was there. An English Tommy in
charge of a motor-lorry swerved off the road,
barged into the moorings of a big tent and
smashed a couple of dozen pegs in the pro-
cess. The Tommy suggested paying for the
damage, but the O.C. decreed that a report
must be sent in. After the usual quantity
of paper had been wasted, the authorities
replied to the effect that loose pegs could
not be supplied, but that a new tent would
be sent to replace the damaged one. In due
course the new tent (value £150) arrived,
with its full quota of pegs. The old tent
was then packed up in the best military
style, and gravely returned to store. Britons
never shall be saves!


UMP
/>
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
m.
Agents:
BennettS Bar kell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
sdf
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over jo years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
swan iiiu!;?::
Used since 15%. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
0
Cm
m
i
$
3
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain —known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump ”
—you get irritable—you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
f
The Wine of Lift
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
1 Wincarnis ’ for ‘ Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
'Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
t : ..-.d
vW
TOa irp =
t-iIL-
Jlllll I 111 J'' UIL-.V-
Makes Windows Invisible
After you clean a window with
Bon Ami you have to poke your
finger at it to find out just where
the glass is! That is because the
wonderful Bon Ami wet-and-dry
method cleans so perfectly. You
just rub up a little lather on the
cake with a wet cloth, apply the
lather over the glass, let it dry a
»I I all (Tie
Finer Klrvda of
Cleaning
minute, and wipe it off with a dry
cloth. It goes on wet, dissolving
the dirt—it comes off dry, leaving
no smears.
You have no idea how clear and
brilliantyour windowsand mirrors
can be untilyou have cleaned them
with Bon Ami. Bon Ami is new
in this country but in America it
has a record of twenty-five years
and is used now in more homes
there than any other cleaner.
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it.”
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.Colfis Browne’s
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE 1O It
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cougrh of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS arid effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
0} all Chemists. Prices in England , i/3, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
sd
ftemjngwq,
.44 Calibre Repeaters
will give you more value for your money
than any other arm. Proportionate to
their calibre, power and penetration, the
Remington UMC .44 Cartridges are the
most economical to use.
These Repeaters have a number of exclusive
features that it will pay you to investigate.
In case your dealer cannot supply you, send
for special booklet post free.
fsd
f
The Remington Arms Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
m
m
M
With
IN SOLID NICKKL HUNTING CASE.
Ordinary Dial. Price tO/6.
With Luminous Dial. Price J4/6. •
STEWART DAWSON’S
LATEST CATALOGUE
is an excellent Shop-window for Country Residents
who desire to avail themselves, of our Splendid Values
in Gifts. We send it Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
> THE TREASURE HOUSE,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
High-class
Pocket
Compasses
Of a Scientific Nature at the
Price of Ordinary Productions.
Sterling Silver Line Engraved
. Cigarette Case, 35/-
Others at 27/6, 32/6,
40/-
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
RUDYARD KIPLING.
A DIVERSITY OF CREATURES.
Stories by RUDYARD KIPLING.
Dominions Edition, Bs. 6d.
SEA WARFARE. Containing “The
Fringes of the Fleet,” “Tales of ‘The
Trade,’” and “Destroyers at Jut-
land.” By RUDYARD KIPLING.
Dominions Edition, 3s. (id.
THE NEW PACIFIC: BRITISH
POLICY AND GERMAN AIMS.
By C. BRUNSDON FLETCHER.
With a Foreword by the lit. Hon.
W. M. HUGHES, Prime Minister of
Australia. With Portraits and Map.
[Shortly.
THE LIFE OF ALGERNON
CHARLES SWINBURNE. By
EDMUND GOSSE, C.B. With por-
traits and other illustrations. [Shortly.
PROF. J. LAURENCE RENTOUL.
AT VANCOUVER’S WELL AND
OTHER POEMS OF SOUTH AND
NORTH. By J. LAURENCE
RENTOUL. Author of “From Far
Lands: Poems of North and South.”
ss.
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE’S
NEW POEMS.
STRAY BIRDS POEMS. By Sir
It A B I N D R A N A TII TAGORE,
Author of “Gitanjali.” With Front-
ispiece in Color by Willy Pogany.
4s. (id. net.
PROVIDENCE AND FAITH. Ex-
tracts from a Churchman’s Diary.
By WILLIAM SCOTT PALMER.
With an Introduction by Rev. C. H.
S. MATTHEWS, Editor of “Faith
or Fear?” [Shortly.
FAITH OR FEAR? An Appeal to
the Church of England. By DONALD
HANKEY (A Student in Arms),
WILL 1 A M SCOTT PALMER,
HAROLD ANSON, F. LEWIS
DONALDSON, and CHARLES 11.
S. MATTHEWS (Editor). 3s. (id. net.
Canon Scott Holland in The Common-
wealth: “The book is frank, free and stimu-
lating. It is written in excellent temper;
and it makes a very effective personal appeal
to its readers.”
THOUGHTS ON RELIGION AT
THE FRONT. By the Rev. NEV-
ILLE S. TALBOT, Assistant Chap-
lain-General. late Rifle Brigade,
Author of “The Mind of the Dis-
ciples.” 2s. net.
The Times: “A sincere and candid little
book.”
NATURE AND ADVENTURE IN
AUSTRALASIA. For Boys and
Girls. By JANE ADA FLETCHER,
Author of “Stories from Nature.”
Illustrated. Is. Gd. net.
W. 8 A. K. JOHNSTON’S WAR MAPS.
THE BALKAN STATES. Size
25 x 20 inches. Colored Cloth
Folded, Is. 3d. net. Unmounted
Sheet, Gd. net.
THE MIDDLE EAST, illustrating the
campaigns in Mesopotamia, Persia
and the Caucasus. Size 35 x 23
inches. Colored Cloth Folded, Is. Gd.
net. Unmounted Sheet. Gd. net.
EUROPE, SHOWING ALL THE
WAR AREAS. Size 40 x3O inches.
Colored Cloth Folded, 2s. net. Un-
mounted Sheet, Gd. net.
BELGIUM AND NORTH-EAST
FRANCE. Showing main roads and
railways. Size 25 x. 20 inches.
Printed in Colors. Unmounted Sheet,
Gd. net.
(1) BETWEEN PARIS AND BER-
LIN.
(2) BETWEEN PETROGRAD AND
BERLIN.
Including the whole of Austria and
showing the Italian Frontier. Size
40 x 30 inches. Colored. Cloth
Folded, Is. Gd. net each.
ROLF BO LORE WOOD.
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS. By
ROLF BOLDREWOOD. Re-issue.
Svo. Sewed 3s.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
- 3s. 6(1. per Volume.
STELLA BENSON.
658 THIS IS THE END. By STELLA
BENSON, Author of “I Pose.”
This is a new story by the Author of that
strikingly original work “I Pose,” in which
the reader is introduced to Jay, “a ’bus-con-
ductor and an idealist. She is not the heroine,
but the most constantly apparent woman in
this hook.” The Author explains that she
cannot introduce us to a heroine because she
has never met one.
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Amusements.
Hurry Rickards Tivoli Theatres L,td.
Governing Director HUGH U. AIcINTOSH.
T'VOLI THEATRE. SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS
SYDNEY’S SMARTEST SHOW.
TIVOLI FOLLLJiS
_ _ and
•MISS VrcUA PPiAECE.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
"|"I\OLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
BRILLIANT COMPANY, HEADED BY
MISS ADA REEVE,
The Comedienne in the World.
|J E R SI A .1 E S T Y ’ S, S Y I) N fTyT
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 1.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their Gorgeous
Annual Pantomime,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales CaHose’s.
THEATRE ROY a K, SYDNEY
I(? ssee ? j. C. WILLIAMSON
Direction OSWALD ANDERSON.
Arrangements have been made with Messrs. J. C.
WILLIAMSON LTD. for a
SPECIAL SEASON OF SEVEN NIGHTS,
giving the public a further opportunity to witness
this diverting Comedy, THE NEW AND ORIGINAL
AUSTRALIAN SPORTING PLAY,
JINKER
(The Grafter’s Mate)
Written on Con Drew’s successful Novel, “Jinker ”
Commencing Next Saturday, 28th April, at' 8 p.m.
Prices: 4/- (Reserved), 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, plus tax.-
Plans at Paling’s.
\ ide Press: “The best Australian play to date.”
p alace theat re, syd ne y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
J. and N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY- CO.
in the
GREAT COMEDY SUCCESS,
TURN TO THU RIGHT.
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Box plans at Nicholson’s.
o
NLY TWO WORDS—BUT WHAT REA I
JOY.
WIII T i: CI T Y
CLOSES FOR THE SEASON ON
SATURDAY.
W 1 RTH S ' NEW HIPPODROME.
” HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 o’clock.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and all Holidays
WIIITHS’ GREAT CIRCUS AND
MENAGERIE OP PERFORMING
WILD ANIMALS.
Book your Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s, 5/-
Other seats 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, plus war tax.
Children Half-price, except Gallery.
’Phone 1234 City.
Amusements.
Q A R D E N THEATRE,
Rayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE RED DANDIES.
Plans at Carnegie's, 334 George Street, City; and
Sinclair’s, top of William Street.
w
TKIANGEE FLAYS AT
* THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session;
Curtain-raiser at L3O; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West's Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
YY, Barrinotqn Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
NIO >' PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The I'inest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
>"C select programs of the world’s best films.
Contimious Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
w. liAltuiSiiTDN' Mh.i.kh, Managing Director.
|_|EK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MEEIiO Ult N E
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
j. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Saucy and
Piquant Musical Play,
CANARY COTTAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
T II K A T |Te KO Y A 1., MELBOURNE.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
A NOTABLE ENGAGEMENT.
MARIE TEMPEST
THIS MAII IMAGE OF KITTY
Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FULLER RECORD-BREAKING
PANTOMIME,
THIS BUN YIP.
Special Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
THEATRE, M K L II O t R N E.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY,
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
A RIOT OF LAUGHTER.
Produced by BARRY LUPINO.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C. 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
MAJESTIC THEATRE,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
A MILLION-DOLLAR PROGRAMME.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN, in his latest Mutual Comedy,
THE VAGABOND.
BILLIE BURKE in
TIIE MIDNIGHT RIOT,
the fourth feature of GLORIA’S ROMANCE.
And BILL HART in the Triangle-Ince Drama,
TRUTHFUL TULLIVER.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's best films, in-
cluding the productions of Fox. Vitagraph, World,
Pathe, Selznick and Mutual-Chaplin.
BRTTANNTA THEATRE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Legal Notices.
| N THE SUPREME COURT of Tasmania (Matri-
* monial Causes Jurisdiction) GEORGE THE
FIFTH by the Grace 6f God King of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the
British Dominions beyond the Seas Defender of the
Faith Emperor of India TO HUGH JOHNSON of
Melbourne in Victoria Shopkeeper or Shop Assistant
WHEREAS John Frederick Holmes Assistant Light-
house. Keeper at. Maatsuyker Island in Tasmania'
claiming to have been lawfully married to Susa.p
(or Stella) Holmes on the 3rd day of February last
filed a petition agiainst the said Susan Holmes in
Our said Court praying for a dissolution of his
marriage wherein he alleges that you have been
guilty of misconduct with the said Susan Holmes
NOW THIS IS TO COMMAND YOU that you do on
or before the Ist day of June 1917 appear in our
said Court then and there to make answer to the
said Petition AND TAKE NOTICE that in default
of your so doing our said Court will proceed to
hear the said charge proved in due course of law
and to pronounce sentence therein your absence not-
withstanding. And take fmther notice that for the
purpose aforesaid you are to attend in person or by
your proctor solicitor or attorney at the Registry of
our said Court Macquarie Street Hobart and there
to enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose without which you will not be allowed to
address the Court either in person or by counsel
at ’ any stage of the proceedings in the cause
WITNESS the Honorable Sir Herbert Nicholls
Knight Our Chief Justice of Our said Court at
Hobart the twentieth dav of April in the seventh
year of our Reign PHILIP S. SEAGER, Registrar
(Supreme Court Seal Tasmania). THIS CITATION
was taken out by Messrs. Roberts and Allnort, of
Stone Buildings, Macquarie Street, Hobart, Soliciton
for the Petitioner.
L’x.yjuna
CURES ECZEMA.
Issy Davis, the proprietor of the Victoria Hotel,
Coolgardie, a long sufferer from Eczema, writes to
Mr. Fielder on 12th December, 1916, stating that ht
saw the advertisement regarding Exzerma in Thk
Bulletin, and after using one bottle found *it was
all that it claimed to be. “It gave instant relief, and
effected a permanent cure.” He spread the good
news among a lot of sufferers who were very thank-
ful. Write S. Fielder, Randwick, for particulars.
All Chemists & Druggists, or
8. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 2/6
Business Announcements.
BUSINESS MEN PLEASE NOTE.
During the taking of evidence in the
Select Committee Inquiry into the adminis-
tration of Supreme Court Trust Funds in
Western Australia, the Curator of Intestate
Estates was asked if he advertised in the
press. He replied: “I advertise in the
Sunday Times and Government Gazette.
The best advertising medium I have avail-
able is the Sunday Times, and I advertise
in it more than in any other.”
sd
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
*Ol 03
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(N on-aper i ent) ;
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY', Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or it Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CUBE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
BEFOR
>
QUICK RESULTS
USE
JNlUtmidg)
Have you noticed the popularity
of the short moustache? The best
way to grow one is to use
CAPILEARINE. Rub it well into
the hair-roots. The quick results
will surprise you. CAPILLARINE
is a true inoustache-gTower.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George St.
SY6N£Y.
mr~ /***<
7hom«rr& of s oporto*
{motor corpse rot co
»! ’
fhtmmrA ofsvp*r*m
motor carsmrvtcf
The Spirit in
Hupmobile
which the
is Built.
THE Hupmobile spirit says “No!” to every hint of
compromise or cheapness.
It injects an extra factor of safety into every part
subjected to stresses or strain.
It puts the greatest steel mills in America on their mettle
to meet the Hupmobile standard.
It guides every motion of every hand that shapes a part, or
gauges it for accurate size and fit.
It has set in motion a system of inspection—of rough
materials, finished parts, and assembled cars—which has no
superior.
It is a captious, critical, unsatisfied spirit—a spirit of inquiry
and supervision that is remorseless and untiring.
It has one thought—and one thought only that nowhere in
the world shall there be a man who can say that his money
will buy him as good a car in its class as the Hupmobile.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
> sstnn l >° d T| l .r’pJ > ”f«f,io r^^ 4 ’ B^at^ r ’ 2 "® eater > sedan > and 5-seater and 2-seater with detachable winter tops. Motor: Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (32in x SHn )
Transmission. speeds and reverse; multiple disc clntch. Bear Axle floating type, spiral bevel gear. Cam shaft and crank shaft bear™ng£ bronze shell babbitt
starting and 2 ' nd . 5 -. seater * 13 «"- </n 7-seater). Tyres 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 4lfn. on 7-seater ’ Fbd
rail and tn- n’« * atllatin S> * a n vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting side curtains; door curtain carriers; deep upholstery; speedometer- ammeter- robe rail foot
Hupp Motor-Gar Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACRERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, X.Z.


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
"My head became smothered with
red, itching lumps about the size of small
peas. They turned into dry eruptions,
which were very painful if I touched
them My head was covered with dan-
druff and scales. My hair became very
thin, dry and lifeless. The itching used
to worry me and I have been kept awake
for hours.
"I tried Cuticura Soap to bathe the
head and applied Cuticura Ointment
and in three weeks my trouble had dis-
appeared." (Signed) Mrs. G. H. Wood,
Carden Mill, Wollongong, N. S. W.,
October 29, 1915. •
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal ) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE.^
SPECMI/SE
rwo
LINES
#5
1
a
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/vNW
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
ZC /KWTER § T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
ELEY ‘Fourlong’
A .4xo bore 2\ inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. .6 or smaller shot.
ITn
m
Qe
w
41
tt
3E
3
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
ELEY 38
AnMmatir
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY *4lO
‘Universal’
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L» LONDON
Explaining “Feminine Charm
By MILLICENT BROWN.
Illustrated by PENRHYN STANLAWS.
99
NOTICED a curious thing recently in
a railway train. A nicely-dressed
woman entered, and took a seat beside
I saw that everyone was looking at
said; “I remove my skin.” “You what?” 1
exclaimed, horrified. Again she laughed, and
replied, “Sounds shocking, doesn’t it? But
I will explain. Instead of using face creams
me. -l : j. tj
her —staring, in fact. .nut
not offensively, you under-
stand. I caught my-
self doing the same
thing. It was
impossible to
help it. Cer-
tainly it was
not her
I use only pure mercolized
wax, procurable at any
chemist's. The wax
has a gentle absorbent
action which
takes up and
removes the
soiled and
weather-
-A
m
*>*
t*
/
MAVifc
$9
m
7*
w
n
M
%
a
N!
0
£
•-S
*
//
r
*\w
-<
0.
yjs*
r**
m
3
j
te
7* A
XT •
r*
VT*
rl i rit>fH(V ■ft N^“YP '
Stan l*'*®-
beauty of
feature that
held the eyes
of all, nor
was it her
costume. But
there was
something about her
face and expression—
I risked it, and spoke.
“Would you mind telling
me,” I said, “how you keep
beaten outer
film -ski n,
without pain,
irritation or
d i s comfort,
thus reveal-
ing the real
complexion fresh and
clear underneath.
Every woman has a beauti-
ful complexion underneath,
you know. Then, to keep
your complexion so dazzlingly pure? You
won’t think me impertinent, but you seem
to be over thirty, aren’t you? And yet you
haven’t a dine in your face, and your cheeks
are quite peach-like. Do tell me how
you do it.” She laughed, quite good-
naturedly. ‘‘Oh, that’s very easy.” she
iny face firm and free from wrinkles, I
merely indulge in a sparkling face bath two
or three times a week, which I prepare by
dissolving a little stymol (obtained at the
chemist’s) in a bowl of warm water. This
also keeps away those unpleasant little
blackheads, and prevents ‘shine.’ ” [3
sdf
T <* any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
\g/VZNS
sd
S OLOMON
Who shall doubt the wisdom of Solomon ?
And who shall deny that in his wisdom he
would have advocated “Plume” for use in
internal combustion engines had he known
anything about them ? Motorists with the
wisdom of Solomon have their tanks filled
with “Plume.”
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting—Sweet Running —More Miles
“Plume” is the highest grade of motor
spirit known. It gives more mileage, easier
starting, and cleaner cylinders.
Correct Lubrication
Incorrect lubricating causes 50 per cent,
of motor troubles. Take the safe course
and use Gargoyle Mobiloils. Write for
free Recommendation Chart, which tells
you the grade you should use in your car.
“A grade for each type of Motor.” For sale
at all dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
8
i
fs
The Inky Way.
“Copabella”: The poet was lying in bed
pensively watching the “star-gemmed splen-
dor of the velvet night” through a broken
slat in the Venetians, and letting his mind
revel dreamily amid the beautiful and inspir-
ing in this pleasant world of ours —such as
Peace and Love, Olga Petrova, Winning-the-
War, the black-and-white chorus in “Canary
Cottage,” Easter, mixed bathing, Labor
ideals, and the swing of a short skirt over
15-inch all-enamel small-threes! Responsive
to the melting mood the rhymes began to
form themselves naturally, “bliss ’ leapt to
meet “kiss,” “dear” to “tear,” “love” to
“above,” and he was getting on nicely with
the harder ones like “soulful” and “har-
binger,” when a muffled voice from the adja-
cent bed-clothes murmured sleepily: “I
think I’ll get myself flannelette nightgowns
this winter!” Woooomph ! A soul crashed
to earth, and another masterpiece was swept
up with the bed-fluff in the morning.
Until quite ' recently, Brisbane Daily
Mail had three brothers on its literary staff.
These were M. H., A. T., and P. G. Ellis.
M.H., the eldest, who had been on the
Inky Way in Brisbane for 11 years, pushed
a versatile pen as commercial editor, leader
writer and discoverer of scoops. He has now
left the Mail and is organising the Senate
campaign in Bananaland for the Fusionists.
AT. was Government roundsman and
leader of the Parliamentary staff, filling in
his spare time writing specials. His jump
off the Inky Way has landed him in the
State civil service. P.G.. youngest of the
tribe, is still doing shipping, markets,
weather and sundry odd jobs.
Thus the Argus, menacingly, on the
morning before nomination day: —
In Victoria the Win-the-War [Senate] three will
assuredly he elected, unless some interfering inde-
pendents arise to play the Caucus Opposition party’s
game by splitting the vote.
Interfering independents! How dare they
exercise the right of the citizen to offer
his services to the country and speak the
truth as he sees it? Don’t they know what
the Argus’s own motto is:—
I am in the place where I am demanded of con-
science to speak the truth and the truth I speak so
long as it doesn't interfere with Mr. Hughes’s junta.
* * * *
John Barr, of 214 Qeorge-street, Sydney,
wants to know :
What has happened to Charles Bean, Australia’s
War Correspondent? I know that English influence
hit him hard in Gallipoli; but it is difficult to
believe that that same influence is handcuffing him
in France. If his matter is being sidetracked to let
through the mullock that Australia is taking delivery
of daily by cable from strangers about our own men,
it is time we were clear about it. Occasionally, I see a
stray column from Bean which is as flat and mostly
as stale as the old man who sat on a gate with
Lewis Carroll—you remember he mumbled very like
a crow, or words to that effect —and, lately, there
have appeared in the Phews-boosting press political
tags which I am sure Charlie Bean was influenced
to put his name to. But that is not what he is
with Billjim for. Australia’s war correspondent
ought to have been the “familiar” between the boys
away and the old folks at home —Billjimima, little
Bill and the dear old “Pot and Pan” who don’t care
a fiddler’s damn for the wretched political intrigues
of the Defence Department. I understand that
Bean .is to write a history of the war for the
Commonwealth archives. Rabbits! If it has to be
done let it be done off-stage. Nobody will read
it, anyhow; and even if it was read it would be too
late to help 'recruiting. But a few rousing stories,
such as Bean could write quite well, would stir up
what’s left of Australia just as Bartlett’s stuff stirred
us up in the first days of Gallipoli.
“Mr. .Vaughan,” says Adelaide Mail, dis-
cussing the claim made by a Lutheran depu-
tation to the 'S.A. Premier—“ Mr. Vaughan
was not deceived by a brazen red herring of
that type.” Of course not. But some tinned
fish this paper has known would deceive
anybody.
* * * *
“J.F.H.”: Walkley, of the Times, holds
our London record for brevity in dramatic
criticism. Before he was annexed by the
Thunderer, lie did the theatres for an even-
ing paper, The Star. A play entitled “The
Terrible Girl” was produced at the Avenue,
and “A. 8.” condensed his notice into two
short words: “Quite so.”
* * * *
“Thomas Francis”: A press interviewer
needs all the gifts, especially blarney. At
Fremantle one morning, bright and early,
in company with Jones, of the Evening Ban-
ner, I boarded a P. and O. boat as she was
coming upstream. The chief “subject” for
that day was a Queen of Song, and we
spotted her talking to a young man whom
we discovered to be her private secretary.
The poor fellow was having a bad time. As
soon and as civilly as we could we intro-
duced ourselves. .Tones did the talking.
“Madam,” he said. “I am from the Evening
Banner, and my friend represents the
Morning Verity.” “Well, and what do you
want?” barked the Q. of S. “We have come,
madam.” continued Jones unperturbed, “to
interview you with regard to your plans for
the immediate future. But first of all,
madam, you will. I am sure, permit me to
remark —probably you do not remember that
occasion two years ago when, on just such a
morning as this, I interviewed you, or that
other occasion (was it four years ago or
five?) when I had a similar pleasure—that
I have never seen you looking younger.”
Sunshine took the place of thunder on the
fair brow. “Oh, you think that?” she said.
“Well. I can tell you I feel younger.” We
were not. after all. forced to rely on a faked
paragraph announcing Madam’s arrival.
* * * *
A forgotten newspaper is recalled by the
death of Arthur Searfe in Adelaide, at 69.
It was he and J. C. F. Johnson, afterwards
S.A. Minister of Education, who founded
Adelaide Punch about 40 years ago. It
soon merged into the Lantern, and that ran
only a few years. Searfe had other strong
points, and became first president of
the S. Aus. Society of Accountants. Of
late years lie lived chiefly for his roses, of
which he had a wonderful show at Unley
Park.


fsd
Motor-
Driven
Warning
Signal,
£2flo/-
Warning Signal
The Stewart Warning Signal is of comparatively
recent introduction, yet it is now used on more cars
than any other.
One has only to walk down the street to confirm this.
Listen to the notes of the horns on the various cars.
Idie warning voice of the Stewart is the one most
frequently heard.
It is most used because tne most satisfactory.
Its warning is strong, clear and insistent —a call
that all must heed.
Its construction is of the best.
It is built for service and gives it— not for a week or
a month, but for years.
Stewart Signals usually outlast the cars they are
fitted on.
For Sale by Accessory Dealers,
Stores and Oarages.
If unable to obtain locally write to
BENNETT WOOD LTD.,
284 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Every article branded ‘Stewart** is backed by tbe “Cooper**
organisation.
Headquarters: Berkhamsted, England,
Branches at London, Chicago, Montreal, Paris.
Australian Branch :
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.,
129 Sussex Street, SYDNEY;
486 Collins Street. MELBOURNE.
-42
,
Hand-
Operated
WARNING
SIGNAL,
£l/10/-
'i
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
m
84. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight,
about silb.
Freight paid, £4/8/-
-
836. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, light modified, left, full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 71 to 8 lb., 16-gauge 71 to 7$ lb. —
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels £2/9/6
Postage: 3/- N.S.W.. 5/8 Inter-State.
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels
Freight paid, £2/17/6
&
837. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8X. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel bands, right
mortified, left full choke, matted rih, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge
"i to 8i lb., 16-gauge, 71 to 8 lb. —
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/10/-
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/17/6
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., post free.
fsd
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
■ Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2 fin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7slb Freight paid, £5/15/-
-^a
837. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
bairels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2jin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight, 7£lb.
U oc „ . Freight paid, £B/10/
838. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun, 12-gauge,
siim ai tescription to 837 Freight paid, £B/10/
fs
100 yards; will kill at 500.
Winchester, Automatic Repeating Rifle,
lyOd Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about 611b.; sighted point blank to
Freight paid, £5
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE.
British=made.
Box of 5, 2/6 post free.
dfsd
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
1892
With Round Barrel Freight paid, 72/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, 75/-
With Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, 85/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres,
central fire, full or half magazines, 20in. round barrel; weight, about sJlb. Freight paid, 67/6
-B
":V>
•• \i°
tsfj
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892
Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes
25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges; weight s}lb. —
Freight paid, 77/6
Same as above, with round barrel Freight paid, 72/6
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
New edition illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bt), also “Sure Catch”
Anglers' Guide ( Catalogue B2)-, Post Free to any address. Write for one or loth
lists. They are money savers.
1C
ausnuum's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
J}T*r\ TOTK'&CCCfIVIS'rv
f
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St, also at
Tiewcasile £Brisbane


Sapper Haineswood says
Laxo-Tonic Pills are Splendid
m
Sapper Haineswood, 11.R.F.,
loft for “Somewhere in France”
during February, 1917, with
the 25th Reinforcements of the
Ist Divisional Signal Co. He
had already seen service in
Egypt and Gallipoli, and wrote
to us before leaving : —■
“Just a word of praise for
a truly good remedy, Laxo-
Tonic Pills. I think they are
splendid. In this climate
everyone needs a pill now
and again, and Laxo-Tonic
Pills are so easy to take, and
leave you feeling so well
afterwards. They gave me
an appetite and made me
relish my food. I used to
suffer from headache and
pimples occasionally, hut
now, if I feel that either is
coming on, I know that
Laxo-Tonic Pills will fix me
right at once and prevent
any such trouble.”
Yours sincerely,
SAFI'ER
HAINESWOOD
(from a photo.)
SAPPER HAINESWOOD, H.R.F.
Laxo=Tonic Pills for Liver Ills.
laxo-Tonic Tills may l>c taken at all time*, and under all conditions, by both
young: and old alike, without the slightest risk ami without any danger of unpleasant
after-efl'ects. laxo-Tonic Tills assist the process of Nature, give relish to the food,
removing exhaustion, sick headache and many other ailments. Anyone who takes
laxo-Tonic Tills the moment he suspects his Laver and Bowels will never have
headaches. Thousands of people take one every night at bedtime to prevent disorders
of the Liver, Constipation, Bad Breath, Timples and Headache. Try them for a
week; take one on retiring nightly.
o
V
0
9
J±/LLJS
i
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
T~)0 YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote :—“ Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron ‘Jelloids ’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2 A.
For Ancemia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON * JELLOIDS' No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/'.
hon'Mmm
** (Pronounced Jell-Lloyds) >
:HORROCKSES , HQRROCKSES , KORROCKSES , MORROCKSES ,
HORROCKSES'MORRQCKSES’
V.
Gi
9*3
HORROCKSES’
“/deal /uxfacp”
WEARS better, WASHES better.
AND LOOKS better than
HORROCKSES’ HQRROCKSES
MADE FROM
FINE SELECTED COTTON
FLANNEL
AT DOUBLE THE PRICE
SEE
HORROCKSES’
ON
SELVEDGE
, HORROCKSES , HQRROCKSES , HORROCKSES ,
S*
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your, fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you priGe for it.
The Lutine Bell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And at Lloyds’, London, the “Lutine” is always
rung when ships are posted as missing. It is the
bell of the ship Lutine, which was wrecked many
years ago.
I WHO am pledged to the wide, wide
sea and the march of the ships,
Now stand with the Sea as a bride,
with her kiss on my lips;
Lone ward of the wild grey waste to the
North and the South,
With the wind that is salt to the taste and
a prayer in my mouth.
It were well in the wane of my days and
of strength overpast
That I go down the dim green ways of the
sea at the last —
Go down with the wave on my breast and a
yielding of breath,
With a heart that is crying for rest; and
rest is in Death.
Slow toll, deep roll! How the timbers
strain !
The bronze bell beats for a broken ship
Which won’t make port again.
Death ! I have seen it in rooms stark blue
’neath a shroud,
To be hauled with a nodding of plumes
through the town and the crowd —
The tired, dusty people who gape and
shuffle and smirk
When the slow-moving pageant of crepe
breaks in on the work ;
Dark Death that is born of a groan and
drenched with a tear,
Coffined and candled, alone in a garment of
Fear!
Better to stand on the brink till Death
beckons me,
And sink as the tall ships sink, and dissolve
in the sea.
Deep bell, big bell, echo holds the note,
All the melody of sea is pouring from its
throat.
Bells, eight bells! With life at the flood and
Hope as a star!
A heart that is singing with blood, the sail
on the spar,
The stamp of the watch on the deck pulley-
haul at the brace,
And land fading down to a speck, and the
spray on the face ;
The chatter of blocks and the noise and the
tumult —all these,
Big, strong, manly joys, which bide on the
seas,
Blow to my heart like a gale of bright wind
as I stand,
Broken and lone by the rail with my life in
my hand.
And the Lutine Bell is ringing toll and toll
For a broken man and a broken ship
And an unconquered soul.
Toll deep! With the wind in the sail like a
beat of the fist,
Smashing headlong through the gale, or
groping through mist!
By strength of heart and of hand and de-
fiance of Fate,
I have heeded the call of the land for the
bale and the crate,
Fared forth through the dark storm wrack
and galloping seas,
And turned with the rich freight back to
the folk on the quays.
Toll deep that the people may know with
the dip of the sun
We go where the spent ships go and the voy-
age is done.
Sea bell, death knell, carry to the heart,
Token from a vanquished man who played
a manly part.
Calm sea, clear sky! And yet I almost can
feel
The clutch of the southerly set which tugs
at the keel—
Strong hand of Fate which grips on a course
that is laid
Southward away from the ships and the
highways of Trade.
Starboard and larboard she sags at the
beck of the tide,
Her sails like the tatter of flags and yards
swinging wide;
Broken by bellowing gales and the strong
sea’s blow,
And a cargo of crates and of bales a-joggle
below!
B rave bell, lone bell, bear upon the breeze
Tidings to the trader-folk who wait upon
the quays.
Big bell, which wrings from the soul of the
wave and the reef
Sadness and sorrow, to toll in the moment
of grief,
Toll in the moment of rest for a man and
his boat
Who goes like a child to the breast with a
sob in his throat!
Toll long for the brave old ship in the wane
of her strength
Who waits for the opening wave; and rest
cometh at length ;
For a gale gathers darkly to lee, stirs now
the first breath,
And Night settles down on the sea —and
Night bringeth Death !
routine Bell! Death bell, brazen throat and
tongue,
Toll! The cruise is ended, the last lone
chanteys sung !
MAORI!. A N D.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Strawberry Patch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TWO p.m.' The sun like a furnace over-
head, the soil like a furnace beneath.
Shoulders scorched and knees blistered
as higher, ever higher, we crawl up moun-
tains, picking strawberries.
They are not really mountains, the
native-born tell me; only “slopes,” “a bit of
a rise” or “just steepish.” Whatever they
are, grovelling close to Mother Earth and
clutching my bucket as I go, I scale them.
When I can snatch a moment from an
endeavor to break the picker’s record of
yesterday, or when the excruciating pain in
my shoulder-blade will let me, I turn my
eyes upon the scenery—beautiful enough,
Heaven knows, to make a paradise. Green
hills and brown, melting into blue hills and
grey. Giant gums, gaunt and stark; gums
golden; gums roselipped. Wattles black,
grey and silver. And ferns! Ferns every-
where, all threaded about with the dark leaf
of blackberry, the white of dogwood, the
purple of sassafras.
At the foot of the hill over which I grovel
there is a little creek babbling through the
undergrowth ; and for music the cracking note
of the whipbird, the droll, sweet carol of the
magpie, and soon the hoarse chook-chooking
of the laughing jack. Over all, the shifting
shadows thrown by the clouds on the brown
soil over which we shuffle.
* * * *
Who but those who have lost the pliancy
of youth can gauge the agonies of bone and
sinew after two days’ crouching over the suc-
culent strawberry? What other occupation
could induce such an ache across the waist-
line, such a finely-graded stab in the ribs,
such a pitiable collapse of leg, such a rending
of thigh muscles, like the untying of knots
in dried and ancient cordage? Who, save
one who has been there, can estimate the
cruelty contained in the effort to rise slowly
from cramped haunches in order to wipe the
sweat of exhaustion from greying features
and smile? And smile, I say; for here the
smile—of sorts —is currency, and to meet
the smile of derision at one’s uncouth atti-
tude or of pity for one’s age one must be
ever ready with the grin of pretended in-
difference or ache-free youth. And then,
having attained the perpendicular, to totter
down the mountain side as though all were
well and there were no fox gnawing at one’s
vitals, like the Spartan of old.
Not yet is the day of the hero dead when
even I can do these tilings—when I, pro-
prietor of this unique collection of aches, can
still compete for the record. Nor yet is past
the age of miracles, when one, so seeming
brittle, may bend and bend and yet not break.
We have worked since eight o’clock, after
a two-mile scramble down bills, up mountains
and round the base of mountains —all of them
wet and slippery, for it has rained torren-
tial ly during the night-. We have crossed
creeks, blundered over logs, been caught in
wire fences, and dragged and encouraged up
narrow cow-tracks by the kindly native-born.
We have talked snake, have grinned chum-
mily at people in the doorways of inaccessible
bungalows who shout to others within,
“Pickers!” We have waved our hands as
“Pickers” has echoed down the slopes in
tones interrogative, corroborative or comba-
tive.
The city people among us are now all
pretty nearly “cooked,” “knocked out” or
“all in,” according to the native-born. These
latter are seasoned workers, with everything
in their favor —quiet voiced, wiry men, brown
and gnarled like roots, who waste no breath
in useless complaint. Suitably clad, too, in
wide “straws,” loose shirts and leggings.
For who but a novice like Mr. Bullet, who
has never seen a strawberry outside a re-
freshment room, would essay the picking in
narrow-brimmed “boxer”? Mr. Bullet is
doing the row next mine. Like some great
frog, grotesque survival of a swamp era, with
knees bent outwards and great feet sending
down showers of soil, he jerks himself con-
vulsively forward on atrophied knee-muscles-.
I know he suffers. He has cramps and sees
the berries through bloodshot eves. Avaunt.
Bullet! I h ave no time to pity you.
The first thing parted with on a straw-
berry farm is one’s dignity. Bullet parted
with his long since ; but he still clings to one
of its symbols—his collar. Or, rather, it
clings to him, wet, insanitary, and the fleshy
neck above it appears to be strangling in its
own tie. Ilis coat is missing; thrown over-
board early in the day it now lies God
knows where. Bullet doesn’t —except that
it is on one of the back-breaking.slopes over
which he has crawled since morning. I
judge by his bucket that lie is another con-
testant for the record. True, he makes no
boast; but that is not so much virtue as low
cunning. He means to be a record breaker.
I feel it. But he shall not. I and I alone
shall clear a ten-shilling note to-day; and all
the better for me that he groans and sweats,
that the flappers and knitts who arrived by
the “twelve-o’clock mixed” waste time in
playful fooling. To every berry they eat or
pelt I pinch off a handful. Presto, two hand-
fuls! Then painfully upward, on scarified
knees, till my bucket brims over. What
matter that my bones rattle, that to-night I
shall have to anoint me with oil of the euca-
l.vpt, that my scorched eyeballs shall pursue
sleep all night without a catch, till kooka-
burra-call in the morn? This will be as
naught against a ten-bucket record! And,
anyhow, is not pain the penalty of the picker
technically new but physically old?
Men pickers there are here who crop up
annually like the fruit they are to harvest.
They bring swag of sunhat and fly-net. pitch
tents or “doss” in the pickers’ hut. Or they
put up at the Coffee Palace, where (says
Bullet), owing to the slackness of its morale
and its strange acoustic properties, one can
do almost anything except sleep. Fie stays
there. He tells piteous tales of the echoing
properties of the place—how the sound of
a man masticating a chop in the dining-room
chews its way. so to speak, right up the
stairs and into his ear, through his very pil-
low, under which he has buried his head in
fruitless efforts to escape hearing conversa-
tions (for he is an honorable man) of a
private nature on the next floor. Added to
these drawbacks are the mice, whole colonies
of them, nibbling bones all night behind the
canvas walls.
Fortunately for Bullet, strawberry-picking
is not brain work, or he could not hold his
own in the debating clubs that spring up all
over the patch. As I grimly hoist my frame
forward I am pleased to see that that young-
ish person, the local belle, is losing time
ramming statistics down the throat of the
picker of bitter mien who has not thought
it necessary to shave for ten days. Ordi-
narily he holds us spellbound as libel after
libel on this or that personage fall from his
beard among the berries; but to-day this
charmer holds him in the hollow of her
hand, and all around arguments wage on
every subject.
“Save us from that waster with the
whiskers!” mutters a worker to, me. “I
gotta strong stummick, but I carn’t swaller
him. He’s like me job—no good to me!”
(Continued on next page.)


HEALTHY KIDNEYS KEEP THE
The are the blood-filters of
the body, and when they are clogged
they keep back the liquid waste and
impurities from the blood, so that the
body fills with water. This is called
dropsy, and it is a very dangerous
disease.
Your danger begins when there are
sharp pains in the back,, puffy swell-
ings beneath the eyes or in the ankles,
sick headaches, nervousness and flutter-
ing heart.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
a special kidney medicine —they have
one set purpose —to relieve, tone up
and strengthen the kidneys, and they
do not affect the bowels at all. This
kidney medicine —the genuine Doan’s
—dissolves the crystallised uric-acid
which clogs the kidneys, * bladder and
connecting passages, and in this way
removes and cures the cause of dropsy,
diabetes, Bright’s disease, stone,
cystitis (inflammation of the bladder)
and urinary disorders. It is because
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure
the CAUSE of disease that cures are
LASTING.
BLOOD PURE
Every
Picture
Tells A.
Story"
,
\
/
p
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Cured to Stay Cured.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
FROM
ST. PETERS.
Mrs. E. Wilkinson, 29 Campbell Street, St. Peters,
Sydney, says : —“For some time I suffered agony from
lumbago-like pains across the small of my back.
These pains prevented me from bending or getting
proper rest at night, and seriously hampered
me when attending to my household duties. Some-
times I was so bad I could hardly move, and if I
tried to get about the house the pain was almost
unbearable. After trying all sorts of remedies with-
out success. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were
brought under my notice, so I got some, and they did
me good almost at once. After taking two bottles
of these pills I was ever so much better, and eight
bottles completely cured me. That was twelve months
ago, and I have been well ever since. I always keep
a bottle of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in the
house, and take a dose occasionally, and they keep me
in splendid health.”
Four years later, Mrs. Wilkinson says “I have
been free from backache since Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills cured me five years ago.”
FROM WAVERLEY,
Mrs. J. Maxwell, 23 Mackenzie Street, Waverley,
Sydney, says:—“lt gives me great pleasure to say a
few words in favor of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
this remedy having completely cured me of a had
attack of kidney disorder some two years ago. I
suffered dreadfully for some time, and was often so
bad with backache that I was obliged to lay up. I
could get no rest from the constant pain day or night,
and it was fast taking the life and energy out of me.
The kidney secretions were affected, being thick and
cloudy, with a red sediment, and there was puffiness
under the-eyes, this I knew being a sign of dropsy.
I tried everything I heard of, hoping to get well
again, but nothing seemed to suit me until I got
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This remedy acted on
the kidneys straight away, giving me relief in a few
days, and as I continued taking the- pills my health
rapidly improved, three bottles making ' a perfect
cure, and I have been free of kidney trouble ever
since.”
sdf
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
-*1
“What’s wrong with it?”'l ask.
“Rotten! I get seven bob a day an’ pick
nine. Signed on fer week-work no,t knowin’
how I’d shape; can’t help pickin’ quick—
seems sort of a gift. Oh, it’s a mug’s game,
any’ow. Squattin’ roun’ on damp ground—
gettin’ rheumatiz —’struth ! I’d rather be
backin’ the ponies.”
Still the debates go on, the love-making
among the dappers proceeds. Still we crawl
upwards on quaking calves, clutching our
buckets,-hugging old earth, bedewing her with
our honest sweat. ,
The-boss comes among us and takes a tally
of work done. What’s that? The local belle
has filled her ninth bucket? I don’t believe
it. And someone else is on his tenth!
Ananias, where art thou?
Sh! Sh ! What’s happened now? Mr.
Bullet, turning to go down hill, has neglected
to drive his heels into the soil, and has conse-
quently started to run. Just an accidental
trot at first, hardly more than a walk. But
his weight tells, he gains in speed, now can-
tering, now galloping. Faster and faster,
like a figure in a movie. Down, down, through
the strawberries, past the gooseberries, right
on to the raspberry slope! See him clutch
frantically at their stakes as he -Hies past.
To no purpose. His momentum is too great
and in a moment Bullet, who has all the
luck, is having a bath in the babbling brook
below. Thank God! He at least is out of
the running for the record and the ten-bob
note.
“What registry sent me up that pair o’
birds, 1 wonder? Look queer. Can’t seem
to classify ’em.” The boss indicates a couple
who have arrived in the morning train.
“Oh, them:’ answers the overseer. “They’re
Sonny and Sadie, down-an’-out vaudeyvillers.
Yes, actors. Queer fish all right—an th’
chap's got as much mag as a gramophone.
Dunno what the office ’ll send up next.”
And indeed the queerness of the pair
had made our whole industry pause. Sonny
wore the cut of trouser shown on tailors’
plates as “extreme peg,” which gave his legs
the appearance of plump, well-grown carrots.
His pleated coat had too many pockets ; all,
as he told us without shame, empty. But-
tons bespattered him and a leather belt bit
into his middle. His feet were immured
in abominations of tanhide with plaid top-
pings—footwear meet for a Scottish laird
in a farce.
And if Sonny was extreme, what of
Sadie? She was indeed of the ultra
smart or had been once. She was such a
girlish old girl, determinedly young, and
playing her gold tooth and her sagging eye
for all those assets were worth. In fact,
until to-day, she had fought age with pluck,
not to mention poudre-de-rose and other aids
for keeping the years at bay. Age. in her
case, had been a pampered hound, which, on
condition of spoon-feeding find soft-kennel-
ing. had consented to lie low, suspected, but
almost unseen. To-day, however, the dog
had been neglected. He had not had the
mollifying bone of the beauty shampoo, nor
Ins scrap of wrinkle eradicator. Worse he
had been exasperated by work and weather.
Small wonder that lie is now up and bark-
stiaining at the leash, glaring horribly
through the fading mask of girlishness which
was once Miss Sadie’s wear.
She has my pity. I know what she must
suffer, scuffling along the ground in her
knee-deep corset.
In trying to show her how lissom are my
movements without any, I almost take a
header down the hill. I advise her to
take her corset off. "Much freer without it
—muscles have more play, you know.” She
answers with simple pathos: "I couldn’t.
I’d die without my stays,” and remains in
its ruthless embrace. Meanwhile, she grows
visibly into an old woman —soon she’ll be a
rival to the oldest inhabitant.
Sonny, who has disappeared to Captain
Cook’s Hotel, not far distant, returns mel-
lowed. To Sadie’s reprisals he turns a deaf
ear. . “Don’t hoi’ un th’ accusing eye,
Kiddo,” he says; “I bin lookin’ roun’ for a
mountain to buy. I want to build a bun-
galow—l beg yours? No! No. We got no
stake in th’ city—goin’ settle here now,
an’ watch the little strawberry improve with
every shower. Ha, ha ! Not too bad that, is
it? Oh yes, used to composin’ all my own
‘rags.’ Hey, Kid, let the ladies an’ genel-
men hear us in our ‘Hug-a-you, Ma Honey’
rag.”
"No charnce! Go an’ get yer head read !”
And Sadie, clutching at her strawberry
bucket as to a lifebuoy, toils upward.
“Ah, poor Kid, she’s got a sore head,”
explains Sonny. “Had a bad time at the
’alls lately. Didn’t get a reception worth
a bean at some of the houses. Didn’t get a
’and, did we, old girl? You take it from
me, ladies an’ gents, the ’alls is done —
there’s no dough in ’em now, not for artists.
I bog yours. What’s done ’em in? Why, th’
movies, o’ course. Movies here and movies
there, an’ movies everywhere. But we’ve
’ad good times, ain’t vve Kid? Applause,
salvos, an’ all that. Every turn a ongcore—
an’ Sadie there fair smothered in garden
stuff. I mind the time a vaudeyville star —
beg yours? Yes, I said star, S-T-A-R —
showing at p’r’aps four ’alls a night, was
always sure of a ’ansom from the manage-
ment, or per’aps it run to a taxi. But wot
price now? Beltin’ roun’ in the tail of a
twopenny tram, draggin’ yer make-up grip
with yer like a dead-broke shoe-cream sales-
man —an’ no dough, no dough anywhere. It’s
the dirty limit.”
While a gentle melancholy at these adver-
sities envelops us, he bucks up again with
plans for the future. “But we ain’t goin’
back to the ’alls no more, ol’ mates; I’m
fair sick o’ the subbubs, an’ th’ subbuban
gardens-—all lawn, an’ tidy ’edges, like as
if they’d just ’ad a shave an’ ’aircut. Gimme
nature, an’ a bungalow in th’ strawberry
zone. An’ ’ere, Sadie, Kiddo, I got a notion
fer a catchy rag. We’ll sing it at the local
’all.”
He hunts through his pockets in search of
a pencil, bringing forth, among other litter,
a dab of butter, wrapped in an old pro-
gramme, and starts off with pawing move-
ments of the atmosphere—
Tee, te —e, turn—tu —m. I wanta buy—•
A bung—ga—lung—galovv
From some ole guy—- —-
But here he suddenly changes from com-
poser to financier. He scents money. The
boss is being “scaleu” for the day’s pay by
pickers whose heart and muscles have given
out entirely.
It is Sonny’s eloquence that finally wrings
the coin from a reluctant management, and
presently he and the aged Sadie are heading
the band of discontents downhill to the sta-
tion —presumably cn route for rest homes
and hospitals.
And just at that moment, when the last
berries are being hurrieti into the tally. Mr.
Bullet tries a new acrobatic act —something
novel, in which his boots and my bucketful
of fruit are partners. I don’t realise the
nature of the feat, but next thing we are all
chasing rolling strawberries, and our local
belle has broken the record, with a ten-
shilling pay slip.
WEEROONA.
The Cue of Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE chronic invalid who had only ten
minutes more to live but didn’t know
it sat on the front seat and talked
to the very wearied driver—his host
for the time being. “No, I’m no better
—no better at all. Never will be, I
suppose. But I must see it out to the end
and listen to the damned nonsense the
doctors talk. I’m sick of the lot of them
and sicker of their hills. I tell you when
you’re worn out you’re worn out and that’s
all about it! I’ve worn myself out and now
I’m waiting to die. It’s not so easy to die.
You get to a certain stage and then you
don’t seem to be able to get any further —
can’t push the door open, as it were, and
get out. Here I am on the brink of the
grave but I can’t get in—can't shift myself
any more than a billiard-ball can when it’s
on the edge of a pocket!” He relapsed into
gloomy silence, and his host made no attempt
to rouse him. lie had been listening
patiently for miles and had regretted the
impulse that had made him ask the invalid
friend out for the afternoon.
The motor hummed round a pretty bend
of the road and got away from the noise of
the following electric tram. The conversa-
tion of the two men on the back seat of the
car became audible. Dunstan, the alert and
cheery traveller, was telling one of his good
yarns to the luckiest man of the party:
“Terrible weather it was —Bombay at its
worst. Brown had endured this miserable
begging servant of his for weeks and given
him all sorts of things. The brute could
always find some pretext for asking for
money or anything else he fancied. This
night Fred was lying stark in his room with
ice on his head —just, about breathing, you
know. Everything black, still and suffo-
cating. Suddenly Fred heard a scratching
sound and got a devil of a fright—sounded
like a snake. ‘What the ’s that?’ he
barked. Then out of the darkness crawled
this swine of a nigger. ‘Oh, sahib !’ ‘What
is it?’ yells Fred. ‘Oh, sahib,’ says the
sweating brute, ‘I am a poor man, sahib!
the winter is coming and I have no money
for warm clothes ” Brown nearly murdered
him.”
“What did he say?” asked the invalid on
the front seat, roused by the laughter.
“Oh, only one of Dunstan’s yarns,” said
the driver.
“Joe tells me you’re going to India this
year. Dunstan?”
“No, England this time, and you bet I’m
looking forward to it! I tried to get away
to have a look at this war, but the cows
blocked me—said my heart wouldn’t stand
it. That’s the worst of these old racing
strains—they nearly scare the doctors to
death. But I’ll heat them yet. They say
it’s dead easy to get to the Front from Eng-
land. Fancy letting a thing like this war
go without ever getting a look at it! Why,
even the girls are keen to get away. I’ve
seen a lot of things in my time, but I’m
going to see a lot more yet, and this war’s
one of them. Damn the doctors, I say!
They love to order a big, healthy chap like
me about and frighten him. Guess I’m
good for another 20 years, anyhow. Hullo,
what’s Joe stopping for?”
The car ran into the shade of some
trees and the man who couldn’t die turned
in his seat. “I say, Dunstan, the wind is a
hit too strong for me on this front seat.
Do you mind changing?”
“Not a bit. old man ! Hop into my place.”
Tie helped the sighing invalid down and in,
shut the door, and took his place beside the
driver, who was obviously relieved at the
rearrangement.
And just round the corner, the ten
minutes being up, the shaft of the runaway
dogcart that should have speared the weary
invalid pinned Dunstan and all his plans
for the future to the seat.
Death makes some bad mis-cues.
KODAK.
Pamela’s Hands.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I would that I tho greedy bees might cheat
By gathering roses from the summer lands
In blossoms perfect—ere the bud expands
To show its heart —and steal the perfume
sweet
To offer kneeling at Pamela’s feet
The fragrance, subtle, as her fragrant
hands.
’Twere offering and rev’rence fit and meet.
The silent worship that a queen demands.
Oh ! Sweet and white as any pallid rose
That hides within its heart the plund’ring
bee,
Pamela’s folded hands of piety ;
But sweeter far than any bloom that blows
Her parted hands, that, opening, disclose
Pink palms that plead for kisses timidly.
N.S.W.
A. A. EVANS.


'reU£r
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves sper cent . on
Automobile
Fire insurance .
Price 55/ ■ each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14".
WORMAIF BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers ant/ Agents. Please write.
sdf
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co:, Ltd.,
SELL WOOL, & SKINS.
Personal-attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
as?
:
m
S
Waterman's
(ldlalL
Foun^m^en
THERE he goes, with a merry heart and
a springy step, glad to “do his bit,”
confident in his fitness and prepared
to rough it with the best of ’em. But not
prepared to put up with the discomfort of
camp pens and “ service ” pencils. Oh
dear, no! he believes in a first-rate equip-
ment, so he arms himself with a
“ Safety ” type Waterman’s Ideal —the
perfect and ever-ready fountain pen.
away from home, it will be
his easy means of com-
munication with relatives and
friends left behind. What a
v boon it will be to him !
Three types—
Regular, Safety, and Lever
Pocket Self-Filling.
0/Stationers & Jewellers everywhere .
L. G. Sloan,
Che?ea<£«nter,
London, England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence St., Sydney.
BeecDam'sPills
may be relied upon, at all times, to exercise a tonic,
cleansing, healing influence upon the digestive organs.
A sensible use of this well-known specific is generally
all that is needed to relieve and remove those disorders
of the stomach liver and bowels, which are always
associated with dyspepsia in any form. Beechanrs Pills
are unfailing as a corrective and invaluable as a safe
stimulant of that important organ, the liver, upon the
efficient action of which so much depends. As a cure
for constipation and for removing its attendant discom-
forts and dangers there is no more reliable remedy. In
fact, as an aid to health generally, the judicious use of
Beeeham s Pills is strongly recommended. They are
ft Boon to All
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10|d (36 pills), 1/1 2 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
53
A
wide and
comprehensive
range of Saddles for
Cycles and Motor Cycles
is listed by the house of
BROOKS
but one quality, and that un-
equalled distinguishes
them all.
OF ALL DEALERS
sd
If
any illustration appearing in T
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to
Manager, who will quote you price for it
When your child’s permanent teeth are form-
ing that’s the time to begin the use of
Dr. Lyon's
For The Teeth
Powder Cream
Prepared by a Doctor of Dental Surgery
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Dental Cream or Tooth Powder,
Victoria Street
Wellington, N. Z.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
109 Pitt Street
r, N.S.W.


MANGROVITE
LEATHER
SBLTING
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users,, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
The Mine* Manager’s Friend.
The Celebrated “An Eagle on a Globe”
Easy to Sharpen, Durable
and Efficient.
Mi
fsd
in OCTAGON and
SOLID SECTIONS,
HOLLOW SECTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Is 25% Reduction in Insurance
Worth Anything to You ?
Such are the fire-resistant qualities of
Hardie’s Genuine K SH -
FIBRO-CEMENT Sheets
that the Insurance Cos. of New South Wales
place them on the lowest basis. These Sheets
are wonderfully strong and are . rapidly-
replacing weatherboards, plaster, steel linings
and ceilings in all modern buildings. They
do not crack or chip and are rust and wliite-
ant proof. Write for Catalogue “D.”
Also ask about Hardie’s Oak Cover Battens
for handsome panelled effects, and “Fibro-€”
Cold Water Paint.
James Hardie &. Co.,
phone 0241. Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
9
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNAPPS
Tangye Portable Lampless Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Department
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Handling the following High-grade and Well-known Agencies:
TANGYE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers, Pumps of all descriptions.
TANGYE Suction Gas Plants, Winches, Lifting Jacks, Punching Bears, Chain Hoists, Etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction Engines. NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements.
JOHN BUNCLE & SONS Chaffcutters. E.R.B. Separator Engines. E.p.B. Farm Pump Outfits.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines and Cream Separators. GANE Milking Machines.
Interesting descriptive Catalogues of any of above lines Posted Gratis to any address.
&
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine,
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
A tribute to their merit:
Mr. ,T. J. Gavel, of Gulgo Station, Conctoholin (where nine men recently got a
“tally” of 1835 sheep shorn in a day), writes: “The plant—lo Wolseley machines—iias
now shorn 140,045 sheep. The charge for repairs in seven seasons has been less than
£3O. Apparently the top gear and fixings are as good as when new. The machinery has
given every satisfaction, and my shed is looked upon by the shearers as one fitted
out in an excellent, up-to-date way. Consequently I have the pick of the men offering.”
Best results assured users of “The Wolseley.” Write for details, post free, or call
for demonstration.
Australasian Agents: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD. —ALL BRANCHES.
Adapted for all Services —
Knowles
m.
t
SINGLE and DUPLEX
PISTON and OUTSIDE PACKED PLUNGER TYPES for—
Mine Sinking, Cyanide Works, Battery
Supply, Tank Filling, Boiler Feeding, etc.
You can depend upon a KNOWLES—they won’t fail you when
the strain conies at a critical period. Many years of use have
demonstrated their superiority in
EFFICIENCY, DURABILITY (SL RELIABILITY.
Sole Agents for Australasia-
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers, Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
ORE CONCENTRATING MACHINERY
99
Dorr Classifier Gyral Screen
Card-Bosco Sizer Elmore & Flood Samplers
JIGS, ROCKBREAKERS, ROLLS.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
Equitable Building,
350 George St., Sydney.
FT
■ ;
as
J
