

DEWAR’S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
LISTEN!
Our Brave Australian Boys are Calling for YOUR HELP!
The traditions of your race demand a willing and noble response.
Will you fail them in this hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF YOUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written.
|p aj| t .
JL* Jl \J J. I
R. G. WATKINS <Sb CD., Iron and Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney.
dfg
dfg
df
On all Classes of Security
mi/Iv® DISCOUNTED
Easylerms Interest
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castltereagh Street* Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
NSWM3NT DE PIETE-D&1C9175-
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREAGHST SYDNEY 74.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9825.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
gd
V
Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty'
VALUABLE FOR TAN i
AND SUNBURN /
f Made in Australia by “
fBraCKSItARHSC?
SYDNEY.
fg
Take it back, -
I must have-
HUT
Fine Apple Brand
TON’S
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBBS
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
Is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
u
df
*or INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
I
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
gs
“Not the same as others,'*
A very large percentage of the best roofs in Australia are made of Malthoid.
Malthoid stands alone —absolutely—for flat roofs, for bungalows and for farm
buildings; it ensures both efficiency and economy.
Withstands the severest tests of service; resists fire; unaffected by the worst
weather conditions.
Write for samples and booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chatlis House, Sydney*
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. & AGRICULTURAL. ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL Sc FARM WAGGONS. IRON Qc MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SHREDDER DISCS.
Srfrtfiur
6 (3
MACHINERY.
"Robey” High-class Steam Engines, “National” Gas, Oil and Suction Gas
Engines, Steam Waggons, Road Graders, Scoops and Flows, Nestable Corru-
gated Metal Culverts, Concrete Mixers, Discus Church Organ Blowers, Malleable
Pipe Fittings, etc., etc. ALSO MODERN MACHINERY FOR Read Building,
Earth Handling, Elevating and Conveying, Stone Breaking and Pnmping and
Irrigating. Drawings and Suggestions gratis upon receipt of Requirements.
Head Office: Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street
OPALOID
HXOOX
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 38.—E0. 1948.]
Registered at .the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, June 14, 1917.


the Best
Writer in
Short-story
tHe World.
A Complete Set of 0. Henry's Works for IS/-, or 20/- Posted.
O. HENRY SERIES.
rolling stones.
STRICTLY BUSINESS.
THE GENTLE GRAFTER.
OPTIONS.
THE TRIMMED LAMP.
SIXES AND SEVENS.
HEART OF THE WEST.
CABBAGES AND KINGS.
THE FOUR MILLION.
WHIRLIGIGS.
ROADS OF DESTINY.
THE VOICE OF THE CITY.
PRICE PER VOL.
1/6
Postage 2d. extra.
SPECIAL EDITION
ILLUSTRATED.
Set of 12 Vols.
for
50/=
Everybody Should Read
O. HENRY.
Strongly bound in cloth, good type, colored wrapper.
BOOK ARCADE, 340 George
FOR TH£ LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes,
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA, and the PREVENTION
OF CONSUMPTION.
Unlike Cough Medicines, Eumenthol Jujubes do
not interfere with the digestion. On the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the
food.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1 /6 post free on receipt
of Stamps, from
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Company Ltd.
19 York Street, Sydney.
w
A —The Larynx,
or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea,
or windpipe. C
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D—A lobe of one
of the lungs.
[3
THE NIGHT RAID.
The Red Page
In our office in Pitt-street
Smithson is working
On the March balance,
Blue-ticking the journal entries,
Crosschecking the castings in his patient way,
Slipping
Midway in the morning to the corridor
For a cigarette,
Dragging his club foot furiously,
Loudly.
It is dull for Smithson,
But his dreams are whole.
London glows for Smithson,
Splendid traffic canyons
Bright with the living glances of passing
armies,
Whereas
It is black —
Even its day is dull yellow,
Half-hiding sooty brick and stone monsters,
One of which
Squatting in Manly
Would frown the creamy cheeriness out of
the sand.
France for Smithson
Calls up sparkling girls, cafes, high voices,
..talking shoulders
And ribbons of colbred sunlight.
It is mud
Smoking with stenches
Trampled in endless marchings,
And it is only the Sun’s
Sick brother
That lights this greyness
They call the Old World;
While for Smithson there blazes
In his hearty, persistent, golden way
The good Australian Sun.
This longed-for time
Has only come to me
To cancel my dreams
— There’s tlic whistle.
How did it finish, Nurse?
I was sure.
We outplayed that Bavarian team,
Went through them?
Good.
j Oh,./the dreams I’ll alwuys have!
!I must get back to Smithson.
We’ll only have one good leg apiece ,
But 'dreams—-my > dreams !
Poor damned old Smithson!
Lame,
And no dreams,
No living dreams !
O. N. GILLEHPIE.
Fiction
“I have simply tried to show what a man
constituted like Shelley would have made
of his life had he been alive in 1917,” says
S. P. B. Mais, in his interesting and re-
markably up-to-date novel, Interlude (Chap-
man and Hall, per Dymock’s Library). The
hook is valuable as a picture of London in
this year of the war, though there is one
reference that will be resented in the Com-
monwealth. These are the passengers that
the hero sees in a railway compartment:
“Every type was represented, the distin-
guished-looking couple going home from a
dinner-party, the trio of chorus-girls, clean
and cheerful, the Anzac with a very fat
prostitute of twice his age, the down-at-heel
scavenger, the family of Earl’s Court people
back from the theatre, etc.” Mais may have
seen an Anzac with a very fat prostitute,
but, from the reports we have received from
the London police, that Anzac cannot be
regarded as typical. But the war is not
deliberately dragged in for the novelist’s
purpose; it happens to be his background,
and occupies its due position as a back-
ground.
The story is a simple one. Geoffrey is a
literary man, condemned to be a pedagogue,
who, being unsuitably mated, finds consola-
tion witli a London shopgirl. She is mar-
vellously beautiful, but has coarse and
'stubby hands, and says “anythink,” and
“absolootely,” and “reely”; but they love
I eajch other, and when he tells her that he is
married, and suggests a week-end, she con-
sents. The read er gets rather sick of the
realism of their frequent honeymoons. But
the character of the girl is poorly realised;
Mais: makes this common shopgirl talk like
this: “These vast spaces make for vast
thoughts; we are more likely to succeed in
our quest for Beauty and Truth here than
anywhere else in the world. We should not
get our points of view dulled and vitiated by
the lower aims of our neighbors.... and all
this has .come about because of my immo-
rality, my shame and everlasting ruin, as
everyone would call it, in obeying my in-
stinct and coming away with you: only
now have I learnt what pure pleasure means
by dabbling in what the world would call
impurity.” Shopgirls who say “anything”
dbn’t say anythink like that. And the
portraiture ’of the wife is similarly out of
focus.
Geoffrey speaks hot words against age—
the cause -feeing a Canon who protested
Against a disturbance created in a hotel by
two officers home on leave. These men, he
hotly tells the Canon, have “given up every-
thing that makes life worth living and
endured more than a glimpse of Hell, for
what? For you and your like. Because in
the past old men with experience have held
the reins; experience, my God ! this is what
experience leads to: they retrieve your mis-
takes with their b100d.... For far too long
a time has youth borne the gibes of age,
knuckled under out of courtesy to your in-
sensate codes.... The young men do your
work while you sit at home and shriek,
panic-stricken, about shirkers. .. .Don’t
think youth is going to listen to you any
more: you’ve had your day, and damnably
have you messed things up; the deaths of
your childrtu are on your own hands, and
England is tired of you.”
Well, Geoffrey mucks things up. He lets
his wife find out, clears with the shopgirl,
discovers her limitations, tries another girl,
and discovers the way out of his troubles in
a scene that is absurdly melodramatic.
J*
Conrad returns to his youth for his
latest story, The Shudow-Line (Dent, per
Dymock’s Library). Youth and the sea—
Conrad’s own subject. The sbadow-line is
the almost imperceptible border between
early youth and manhood. “One closes
behind one the little garden of mere boy-
ishness—and enters an enchanted garden.
Its very shades glow with promise. Every
turn of the path has its seduction. And it
isn’t because it is an undiscovered coun-
try. One knows well enough that all man-
kind had streamed that way. It is the
charm of universal experience from which
one expects an uncommon or personal sen-
sation—a bit of one’s own... .One goes on.
And the time, too, goes on—-till one per-
ceives ahead a shadow-line warning one that
the region of early youth, too, must be left
behind.” Only the very young have moments
of boredom, of weariness, of dissatisfaction.
“Rash moments... .when the still young are
inclined to commit rash actions, such as
getting married suddenly, or else throwing
up a job for no reason.” His hero, a ship’s
officer, chucks his berth in an Eastern port
for nothing but a caprice; and unexpectedly
finds himself in command of a sailing ship.
There is a mystery about bis ship. He finds
her at Bankok, laid up owing to the death
of her captain at sea. There is sickness on
board; the only cure, he knows, is to get the
ship to sea. The mate is almost dying, but
insists on accompanying the ship. So Youth
casts off and voyages into the gulf of Life.
But the ship seems bewitched ; she drifts day
after day without a breath of wind ; the men
sicken; the quinine gives out. The sick
mate has his gruesome theory of the uncanny
influence that is tethering the ship in that
glassy gulf. There are marvellous pages of
description of that ship becalmed ; there is
a vivid picture of the terrible storm that
comes at last.
And the human beings caught and immo-
bilised within that calm immensity are delin-
eated with an impressive realism. There is
one figure, a ship’s cook ivith a strained
heart, who shows, equally with the young
captain, Conrad’s deep conviction that man,
ever confronted by destiny, is able to rise to
heights of heroism that renders Fate’s ven-
geance futile.
The framework of this absorbing tale
is that of a short story; but each incident is
wrought out to its utmost meaning, and
each character is probed for its deepest
possibilities. Yet the tale hardly rings
true. For Conrad, instead of visualising the
action through the eyes of an onlooker —
and usually a loquacious Onlooker! —this
time allows his youthful hero to tell his own
tale. The false note is apparent. What
young man like his hero could give utter-
ance to a thought like this as he contem-
plates the captain’s chair in his cabin?
lie imagines “a sort of composite soul, the
soul of command,” saying to him: “You,
too, shall taste of that peace and that un-
rest in a searching intimacy with your own
self—obscure as we were and as supreme
in the face of all the winds and all the seas,
in an immensity that receives no impress,
preserves no memories, and keeps no reckon-
ing of lives.” A comment worthy of Conrad
—a comment impossible to the simple soul
of the very young captain. And the frag-
ments of the hero’s diary that Conrad repro-
duces are written in the diction of Conrad
and not with the terse directness of youth.
“As I emerge on deck the ordered arrange-
ment of the stars meets my eye, unclouded,
infinitely wearisome. There they are: stars,
sun, sea, light, darkness, space, great waters ;
the formidable Work of the Seven Days,
into which mankind seems to have blun-
dered unbidden. Or else decoyed.” What
was this youth speculating so impressively
about the destiny of mankind for? And with
such a deep sense of literary style?
Despite this inherent flaw, the book is a
minor masterpiece. The reader can no more
forget that ship becalmed than the ship in
the typhoon or the nigger on the Narcissus.
•
One guinea is offered for the correspond-
ent who picks most of the winners in. the
competition for the six most suitable persons
to be elected to the Republican Academy
of Australasia, a body which 'will ulti-
mately be the final court of appeal for all
matters dealing with Australasian literature.
The qualification for voting is the publica-
tion of verse or story in The Bulletin.
Voters should place their choices in order of
merit, since in case two or more voters pick
the six whose votes top the poll the award
will be given to the voter whose names are
nearest to the order of the declaration of the
poll. The poll closes June 23; and so far
only a few votes have been cast.
Yes-No
George Houston Reid obligingly buries Ms
reputation in a pretentious tomb, and on it
is inscribed My Reminiscences (Cassell, per
Dymock’s Library). The affirmative-nega-
tive politician creates another record by cuis
volume: he has written the dullest auto-
biography in the English language. True, it
is lightened by 1G photogravure plates, show-
ing Reid “in a characteristic speaking atti-
tude,” Reid at Hawarden with Gladstone,
Reid in the comic-opera costume of Court
clobber, with feathers on his hat and wear-
ing a sword; and an even more ludicrous
Reid in knickerbockers at Balmoral, sur-
rounded by Royalty. These alone are worth
the price of the hook. The rest of the illus-
trations are chiefly of royal personages.
The book is merely a record of politics in
Australia and of speeches in England. The
author takes us drearily through all the
political events of our history since ISSO,
without much enlivening comment, and
sums up his political friends and enemies
in commonplace and conventional phrases,
betraying little insight into character. Reid
claims descent from “a shadowy sort of
Scottish chieftain who flourished many cen-
turies ago.” As a schoolboy in Australia he
had no triumphs; when he entered a Sydney
merchant’s office as a very junior clerk he
could not parse a sentence. Ultimately, he
became acting assistant accountant in the
Colonial Treasury, and then secretary to
the Crown Lqw Offices. It was Julian
Salomons, struck by a smart answer made
by Reid when in the witness-box, who
advised Reid to study for the Bar. But Reid
was so lazy that he did not pass his exam-
ination till 14 years after he had begun to
study for qualification! Reid wrote a pam-
phlet on Free Trade'; and he records that a
London paper said that the diction had a
resemblance, to that of Macaulay! The only
luncheon Reid admits that he could not cat
—there are frequeAt mentions of luncheons
throughout—-was on the day fixed for the
meeting of the law examiners. And early
Reid discovered the value of a reputation
for saying “funny things,” though it was
apparently only in later life that he found
out the value of saying funny things about
his stomach.
When Reid went to England, and attended
the inevitable banquet, “I also spoke. Some
days later Lord Rosebery informed me that
some thought I had made the best speech.”
However, Reid, with becoming modesty,
thought that Rosebery had made a better
one himself.
As High Commissioner in England Reid
made the unpleasant discovery that there
were two Sir George Reids. This paper
had always thought so: the one who said
“Yes” and the twin who said “No.” How-
ever, the other Reid was. the President of
the Royal Scottish Academy. The author
not only quotes many of his speeches (punc-
tuated with “loud cheers” and “laughter”),
but gives the full list of the guests at his
official receptions, chiefly earls. Evidently
Reid set the precedent so admirably fol-
lowed by William Morris Hughes. Visiting
America, Reid recalls: “I don’t know that
I ever spoke with such happy effect as I
seemed to do that night. When I finished
the whole company rose and I received three
hearty cheers. Stay !” he modestly rebukes
himself, “Was it because I had finished?”
And he makes a characteristic admission:
“The success of after-dinner speakers is
more largely owing to the glow of the ‘inner-
man’ in those who listen than to the excel-
lence of the speeches. I ought to be a good
judge in both capacities.” Reid simply can-
not keep stomach out of his reminiscences.
The reader who looks for revelations will
be disappointed. The author is discreet: he
never gives himself away. The impression
left on the mind is that throughout his long
and distinguished career the author was
inspired solely with a passionate devotion
to the public service, without a single impor-
tunate thought of self. His explanation of
bis historic Yes-No speech is lame. “The
point that quite fairly exposed me to attack
was the fact that, whilst I criticised some
parts of the Bill so strongly, I intended to
vote for it. The position of an ordinary
elector who said, ‘Well, there are some
parts of the Bill I don’t like at all. but I am
in favor of federation, and I will vote for
the Bill in spite of its faults,’ could not be
attacked. But it is difficult for leaders to
escape abuse if they pursue such a course.
They become a target for both sides. That
was my fate. It earned for me the epithet
of ‘Yes-No’! I did not wonder at it. and
did not resent it, because that is a reproach
to which everyone who looks fairly at both
sides of a burning question will, always be
exposed. It can be said of every judge who
holds the balance fairly between any plain-
tiff (‘Yes’) and any defendant (‘No’).”
The cardinal fault in the volume is the
omission of any reference to his dry dog.
e
A second edition of Val Jameson’s
Peter’s Nationality (W. Brooks, Sydney)
has been issued. The object of this simple
tale is, in the author’s words, “to see the
State children receive as much consideration
as the prisoners in our reformatories and
inmates of our asylums, who are provided
with attractive garden areas for out-door
exercise and recreation.”
A slab of common- or moke-sense appears
in the latest issue of The Round Table,
the half-crown quarterly devoted to the poli-
tics of the Empire. “Though the;war is now
well on in its third year hardly a week
passes without some English Minister or
public man expressing his ‘deep gratitude
for the noble sacrifices which the Dominions
have made in coming so loyally to light for
the Old Country in her time of trial.’ In
spite of their natural good manners, our
fellow subjects from overseas have, on vari-
ous occasions, expressed their aversion to
this form of compliment with such uncom-
promising bluntness that one cannot help
marvelling at the force and obstinacy of a
tradition which has caused the most eminent
persons in the United Kingdom to go on
stubbing their toes against the same stump.
So far as the Dominions conceive themselves
to be engaged in a chivalrous adventure, they
are thinking of Belgium, Servia and France.
So far as they regard the struggle as a prac-
tical matter affecting the subjects of King
George, it appears to them as one in which
they themselves have quite as much at stake
as the rest of us. The Dominions are not
fighting this war for the Old Country but
for the British Empire.” Even so, that
hardly expresses it: our practical view-point
is that we are fighting this war for Aus-
tralia. The remark appears in an interest-
ing article upon the Imperial War Confer-
ence.
The most important article is one upon
the new German Empire, in which by
means of extensive quotation from German
writers the meaning and the menace of Ger-
many after the war is made clear. It will
, consist of an alliance of Middle Europe,
stretching as far down towards India as we
allow ; the Bowers that will compose it will
be in league for what they can get out of it.
but it will be bossed by Germany. It aims
to be a self-sufficient empire. It will not
be a commonwealth or community of citi-
zens. “It is not even an autocracy of the
familiar type. It is something different and
more sinister: a military and economic unit,
a barracks and a plantation, an area in
which the normal concerns and functions of
government and social life are subordinated
to the demands and requirements of an
economic and military General Staff. In
peace its inhabitants are no more than a
‘labor-force’; in war they are simply ‘man-
power.’ ” In the Australian section someone
in Australia writes about something called
the Conscription Referendum, and explains
why the result was what it was—whatever
it was; but the thing happened so long ago
that the reasons for the result hardly matter.
There is also a reference to a coal-strike,
written as long ago as last December. And
there is a long article upon the U.S.A.,
written before President Wilson made his
speech to the Senate explaining his views.
And many ultimatums have flowed , over the
situation since- last January. We shall
doubtless hear about them in the next issue,
three mouths ahead
WAH.
l had expected it and did not flinch.
“Really,” I said, “how sad! We knew him
well
And liked him very much. So good-looking.
I remember, and his mother
Wasn't strong; it will be terrible for her.”
And then I sighed. Sighed when I could
have shrieked
Maddened, torn my flesh and agonised
I sighed and said it teas a dreadful war.
And then went on with talk of flowers and
weather,
Children, and elothesj would be making for
the summer,
And wondered if the tram would ever stop.
Or if I would grow to hate the things I saw,
Or Kate, who told me, whom I’d alwuys liked.
She had a kind, stupid face and did not know.
Nobody knew, lie never Knew.
Only I knew.
And I knew he would be killed
As one knows strange, certain things like
that.
And so I finished things, and I remember
I sang about the house when I got home,
I told them in a natural voice, and made a
cake,
And stayed up late, and talked, and saw it
through.
That night, when I went upstairs, my room
was dark, and the window
Was a square of night blue.
A fete lights glimmered yet, then one by one
Went out.
A sweet wind stirred the mint, a frog
throbbed, there was no other sound.
And the peaceful sky wus unveiled.
Time still held the same world, and I did not
hate it. ■
After all. it had been nothing. And he was
nothing.
The war teas larger than he.
/, too, had become nothing, if anything in the
universe could be called nothing.
For nothing cannot be, there is always Some-
thing. |
I turned into a deep, quiet sleep.
And for many nights since I have watched
the stars '
And fcqrqd nothing, not even Tithe, and gone
quietly to sleep.
For there is this
My heart holds, always holds
Everything. I
“SPINSTER."


w <ute
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
ARDATH Cabinet CIGARS
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are justly popular, for the reason that they
are beautifully mild and aromatic, filled with a delicious blend of Selected
Tobacco, Uniform in quality, and contain only a minimum of nicotine.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS are distinctly in the first rank of medium-
priced Cigars. They are made under perfect conditions, and combine every point
of excellence demanded by the Cigar connoisseur.
ARDATH CABINET CIGARS, No. 444 and No. 666, can only be obtained
at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, and are Cigars that will be smoked with
appreciation by the most critical. We recommend these Cigars with confidence.
AIiDATII CIGARS are packed in
artistically-prepared cabinets, fitted with a
spring catch, and make an ideal present for
any man. Ohr Unique system of spot Cash
trading enables lis to sell these High-grade
Cigars at prices which offer absolutely the
best value in the land.
Box of 25 50 100
No. 444 ... 8/6 166 32/6
No. 666 ... IJ/6 22/- 42/6
Postage.—Box of 25 : N.S.W., 6d.; other
States, Bd. extra. Box of 50: N.S.W., 9d.;
other States, 1/2 extra.
™ NO
□ A
•J 5444
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST of TOBACCO, CIGARS and SMOKERS’ REQUISITES,
Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
VALUE IN BOOKS
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what
its name implies—a library for the professional
man, the business man, the young man, the
student, and all lovers of literature. There are
over 700 titles to select fl’om in the EVERY-
MAN’S LIBRARY, embracing the works of
foremost authors in the realms of Fiction,
Poetry, History, Theology, Travel, Biography
and Essays of famous writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is under the
general editorship of Professor Ernest Rehys,
and contains the best works that have been
written in all times and tongues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens, Scott,
Ruskin and the great Literary Lights of the
Victorian Era.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
is uniformly bound, and printed in .large, clear
type on specially made paper, and many are
illustrated.
Sectional Bookcase, to
hold 50 vols., 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, 1/3 ; Full Leather, 2|6
Postage 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free. Send Is. sd. for a
sample volume. The value cannot he surpassed.
Handsome Oak Bookcase (as illustrated) specially designed for Every-
man’s Library, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with novel interlocking device,
to allow for extension. Top Section, 6/-; Base Unit, 6/6; Book Section
(to hold 50 vols.), 8/6.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE SILENT
WHITE Sewing Machines
The WHITE embraces all that stands for efficiency in SEWING MACHINES.
ggMsmiyS
25
No. 25V (shown partly open).
THE WHITE PINCH TENSION is with-
out a peer. It pinches the thread just enough
to produce a smooth, elastic stitch.
THE WHITE TENSION INDI-
CATOR shows the state of the tension at all
times.. A tension can be changed or dupli-
cated in an instant.
THE WHITE TENSION RELEASER,
operating with a lifter bar, instantly removes
all tension from the thread.
THE DUST CAPS on needle and pressor
bars prevent the ingress of dust; hence easier,
smoother working.
THE WHITE DROP-HEAD AUTO-
MATIC LIFT is the latest improvement in
Sewing Machines, and is a WHITE feature.
The WHITE Vibrating Shuttle Machines are
elegantly constructed, and each machine has
nickel-plated head wheel, hanging centre panel,
and drawers at each side, with beautiful
swell-.’ront furniture, the most attractive style
yet brought out. All WHITE Machines are
fitted with ball bearings, and supplied with
a full set of the latest-style Steel Attachments.
THERE is no better Hachine made than the World-
Renowned WHITE, which combines simplicity, quality
and economy with faithful construction and elegant
finish. Write for Illustrated Price Lists, posted free on request.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR THE
Bushman’s Universal Bicycle
The BUSHMAN’S UNIVERSAL BICYCLE, built at ANTHONY HOR-
DERNS’ BICYCLE WORKS, is specially constructed for use on rough country
roads. Genuine B.S.A. parts are used throughout, and the frame is further
strengthened by an extra back stay and bv a arirder stay for the front forks. It
is, therefore, the STRONGEST BICYCLE BUILT.
Free Wheel with Dunlop
Buihman’s i overs.
Note the Strengthening
Stays which stiffen the
Frame.
0
The Tubing is of the Best Weldless Steel. Double Butted. The bicycle is fitted
with an EADIE TWO-SPEED COASTER and BACK PEDALLING BRAKE,
and is shod with DUNLOP BUSHMAN TYRES, the sort which will resist bad
roads. This is the bicycle which shearers and other station-hands require when
shifting from place to place.
This Machine is complete with lnflator and Oiler, fully guaranteed for
12 months.
With B.S.A. fixed wheel £l4
With Eadie Coaster Hub £l4/10/-
With Eadie Two-speed Coaster Hub, giving free-wheel
on both gears, and break-pedalling brake on
each £l5/10/-
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST POSTED FREE ON REQUEST. ■
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield. Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m/
r
4 11
x
'uusm.
LOOK OVER A
Winchester
AND YOU WILL
FIND NOTHING
OVERLOOKED.
That’s what has made the reputa-
tion of Winchester Rifles, aside
from their own peculiar and suc-
cessful construction. The system
being all right, the next thing is to
make them right. This the Win-
chester people have always done.
They spend large sums of money
in testing materials, in inspecting
and gauging parts, and in testing
finished guns for manipulation and
shooting, so when the gun reaches
W
you—it’s a perfect shooting iron.
There are Winchester Single Shot
Rifles, Repeating Rifles and Auto-
matic Rifles, and you can get
them in various calibers suitable
FOR ALL KINDS OF HUNTING
m
cJJ
JC Vi- V
«C3U> 5 '~
=>fcry
£
**
u
SP
Reliability Supremacy
exclusively Held by tbe Ariel
Unrivalled- in excellence of construction and in efficiency of
road service, there is no rival to Ariel Reliability—no
challenger to dispute its reliability supremacy. Read
this: —
The Ariel is the only motor-cycle that has ever secured in one season
the Team Prizes in the English and Scottish Six Days’ Trials, and
the First Prize in the Irish End-to-JSnd Trial.
If you insist that your after-war motor-cycle must be an all-quality machine
—speedy, powerful, economical and consistently reliable—you are going to be
an Ariel owner.
Ariel Pedal Cycles have given equally good service for over years.
32-PAGE ART LIST MAILED POST FREE.
ARIEL WORKS LTD
36 BOURNBROOK,
BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Agents• TURNER BROS.
.SYDNEY: 363 George Street.
ADELAIDE: 152 Bundle Street.
MELBOURNE: Elizabeth street.
dfg
Special Offers in Guns & Rifles.
TRADE MARK
LOOK, SPORTSMEN !
XO\Y IS THE TIME TO BUY A MUZZLE-LOADING GUN. CONSIDER
''•OUR OUTLAY ON CARTRIDGES! With a muzzle-loader you get the same
sport for 5/- 100, whereas cartridges will cost you 15/- 100.'
D.B.M.L. GUN, best barrels, walnut, stock. Usual Price, £4.
SALE PRICE, 40/-
S.D.M.L. GUN. ( sual Price, 25/- SALE PRICE. 20/-
5.8.8. L. DUCK GUN, 12-bore, long- distance, heavy breech, -pistol grip, walnut
stock, steel barrel PRICE /1 *> /
SPORTING RABBIT RIFLE PRTCE, 15/-. Cartridges, 2/_ 100.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARMS CO., 229 ELIZABETH STREET. MELBOURNE
(' > ''
I
18881
111
rn:\
%
cS,
ffpm yrmmQ'
a
/
mOAVTi
People who
work hard all day,
often without a sup-
ply of drinking water, find
WRBGLEV’S the famous chew-
ing sweet, a delicious, long-lasting
refreshment.
It quenches thirst, aids appetite and
digestion, keeps the teeth clean and
breath sweet.
Welcomed by the forces in
Europe. Send some to
your soldier or sailor.
MUDE mi ausTßaua
Two Flavours
3d. per packet of
5 big bars at Chem-
ists, Confectioners
and other stores.
Or send 3 penny
stamps for trial
packet to J. C.
Gambles & Coy,
Commerce House,
Melbourne.
Tv*
El
IS
-c^
%
<l9
s*>
o
o
\S
Chew it after*
every meal
The
Flavour Lasts
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished b.v
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared! with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientili
callv prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post l/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
ARE, YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
'■egarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT arid SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collins St.. Melbourne, Vic.
p
LOCAL
if
/\©/
'" j
A&-'-
PATRIOTISM
. Your
Aim? e
Then have a JHOT
P| at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
1
X


CELEBRATED
22
>
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cored
MtS,*.' USffi
of Corns old .and hal^ T sV ’\ V hioh
that remedy is A( OKN SILIv,
removes the worst Corn in a few. days, an
tlie sufferer is free from pain. It is a ceitain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
vou don't feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five (lavs docs it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets. 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz. :
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
Actress Tells Secret
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her gre.v hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment: “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum and a small box of Orlex Com-
pound. These ingredients can be bought at
any chemist’s at very little cost. Apply to
the hair twice a week until it becomes the
required shade. This will make a grey-
haired person look 20 years younger. It is
also fine to promote 'the growth of hair, and
relieves itching and dandruff.” — Advt. [1
CARRY A TUBE OF CINNAK.
IT BTOPB A COLD FROM
DEVELOPING.
Cinnak
7r
fc'CINNAK'-.
Transfer from (he
palm to the tongue
and the cure begins
AT ONCE.
China k can be taken
anywhere.
Cinnak clears the air passages
instantly and leaves them open and
free. Get a tube now,
All Chemists, PER TUBE.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackfill P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I teas a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for U days /
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now."
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
In Grandpa’s Courting Days
—Yes, as long ago as that—there was a standard, safe-
and-sure, proved effective family remedy for
all throat and chest troubles, and its name was
A
JM
1
To-day it is still the satest, speediest,
surest Remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis Whooping Cough and
Influenza, relief of Asthma and a
preventive of Pneumonia. If it isn t
Bonnington’s it isn t any good.
Large & Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
sd
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes, and must
have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most effi-
cacious equivalent to Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the battle.
Then what a boon to the mother to
use a food which requires no tiresome
cooking or preparation.
Send for sample
of Mellin’s Fo< d
and Handbook
for Mothers
“The Care of
Infants in Aus-
tralia " FREE
MellinsFdod
is made in a flash—needs no cooking
MESSRS. GO.LLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
i
itisw
Match the Record of
firestone
Tyres
WithAnyOtherMileageFromAnyOtherTyres
THE RESULT will be in favor of
Firestone Tyres. We are sure of it.
TKe tough, resilient tread with its
gripping Non-Skid letters is built to
stand rough roads and trying cli-
mates. Built to save wear and tear of
hard going, both for you and the car.
Firestone Tubes are dependable. They
stand up under strain of rough wear and
hottest climates.
Grimley, Ltd.,
Sydney, New South Wales
F. A. McCarty & Co., Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Victoria
and Tasmania
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Australia
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.,
Perth, Western Australia
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
Wanganui and Wellington,
New Zealand
Obtainable at all Garages Write for Illustrated Literature
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Afternoon
All cool and blue and luminous is the sky
That crooning stoops to woo the afternoo .
Blue deeps are purpnng in the Last, ai (
Night?” breath will chill the dusk that
dawdles by ,
Leisurely with gold eyes, while vague owls
Morosely, and bats weave their endless rune
To mock the languid dilatory Moon
And the slim vestals of her company.
Dusk comes, and night; but we at last have
In golden sunlight, free and unafraid—
Gold and yet gold on hill and leaf and sea.
Not yet, dear Dusk ! Ah. fond grave Night,
not yet!
Still let the gold flood all this whispering
glade .
Where we are glad together, I and She.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
The Lesson.
You and I and happiness
Ran away from Care one day ;
Threaded through with jewels priceless
Were the waters of the bay.
Blue the sky and bright the sunshine ;
Earth had on her dancing shoon ;
Flower and breezes ran like red wine
Through the radiant veins of noon.
See, you said, how all things growing
Lift their faces to the sky,
To its sunshine, to its glowing —
Why look earthward, you and I?
One day brimmed with happinesses,
You and I from care were free;
Kissed and laughed and gave caresses,
While the birds sang joyously.
Kissed and laughed and gave caresses.
Said the thing we meant to say—
Not as staid convention dresses
The cold phrase of every day.
But we bade farewell to gladness.
Trod the path where duty lay,
While the black night wind of sadness
Rent to shreds our golden day.
To mv soul comes truer knowing—
Heal the-furrows, soothe the scars
That the spires of all things growing
Point to the eternal stars.
N.S.W.
NORA MCAULIFFE.
A Strategic Retreat.
I sat in the old orchard, in the apple-orchard
shady, ,
With a lovely little lady underneath a
spreading tree.
And across the starry darkness, as i whis-
pered softly “Sadie!”
A far. rude cry of “Sarah!’’ sounded, some-
what suddenly.
“Oh, it’s dad,” she giggled, “hast it! Dadda s
always interfering!”
I could hardly stop from cheering—.ves. 1
kissed her on the spot!
Do you wonder I forgot
To beware a prowling parent seeking Sadie
in a scot?
The night lay dark around us, still and cool,
with curlews calling
On the creek-flats and the drawling ot a
bull-frog in the tank,
As we sat among the windfalls. Up the hill
that caterwauling
Of “Ili, Sarah!'’ soon declining, into brood-
ing silence sank.
Ah, the mem’ry of that melting, sweet mid-
even. kindly darkling,
And the splendor of the sparkling eyes so
near, so near to mine,
With unwonted warmth a shine !
And when things began to happen it was
only half-past nine!
So w y e sat there, little recking of the price
we’d soon be paying,
Under broad boughs lowly swaying with their
rich autumnal load.
While in silly dudgeon Dadda, with Ins
temper swiftly fraying,
Sought his daughter. In the gully, gently-
murm’ring waters flowed,
And the night was for us only, there was
precious little lacking
Till all suddenly a whacking apple hit me
on the head!
Do you wonder what I said
As I dizzied there a moment with the stars
all glowing red?
It was Dadda, coarsely strident, not unlike
a sailor’s parrot,
Cracking apples on my garret, keenly eager
for a row
As he circled in the starlight; and his aim
was 18-carat
When lie did his best to break the orchard s
wealth against my brow.
It was Dadda, wild and foolish, filled with
measureless annoyance,
Crashing in upon our joyance with rude
vigor in his wrist.
“Come on, Dadda, then!” I hissed,
As I hurried into action with a Five Crown
in each fist.
Swiftly, softly Sadie faded when she heard
her Dadda utter
What he uttered, with a flutter of her
flounces up the hill,
And. thus skedaddling, “Bust it!” once
again I heard her mutter,
And my heart went pit-a-patter, for I knew
she loved me still.
So I nerVed me then and pipped him with a
pippin, an eiglit-ouncer —
Solar-plexed him, such a bouncer!.. . .Dadda
rested, with a sigh,
And I let him rest, for I
Was booked to sit in Dadda’s barn, with
Sadie, by-and-hye.
VICTORIA.
O. L.


PERDRIAU RUBBER HOSE
FOR ALL PURPOSES
fhs
RUBBER BELTING.
The largest endless rubber conveyor belt
ever manufactured in the world was made
by us, and is now in use at the N. S. W •
Government’s coal-loading plant at Port
Kembla.
We can supply belts for high-power driv-
ing, and during manufacture the cotton
duck is subjected to an even strain
throughout its entire length, which re-
duces stretch when in use to a minimum.
If you require Hose for Steam, Suction, Gas.
Water, Divers, Air Drills, Fire, Dredge Sleeves,
Pneumatic Tools, Vacuum Cleaning, Chemicals,
or for any other use whatever, we can fulfil your
requirements.
Our. Factory is thoroughly equipped with all the
latest and most up-to-date machinery and is capable
of turning out any special lines at short notice.
As actual manufacturers we invite enquiries from
Engineers, Industrial Manufacturers and Produc-
ing Corporations for any Special Hose or other
Rubber Goods, and will be pleased to furnish
samples and estimates on request.
'
m
rv
ENGINE PACKING AND JOINTINGS.
We manufacture a number of very high-
grade packings and jointings suitable for
all types of engines.
We can supply you with packings to
withstand the action, of oils and grease,
and the various chemicals usually so
detrimental to anything that contains
rubber. For high pressures you can rely
upon Perdriau Packings to see you
through.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, NEWCASTLE. PERTH.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENVER
PRICES
■Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
df
s
df
gs
RICHARD m
“A horse! My kingdom for a horse,”
cried the stranded motorist who thought
that any old spirit was good enough. Like
his royal predecessor he needed motive
power that would serve him at the most
urgent moment. He needed, more than
anything, the ever-reliable
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting Sweet Running —More Miles
The care with which “Plume” Spirit is
distilled results in producing power and
speed. It vaporises quickly, and having a
maximum of heat units is quick in action
and of great energy even on the coldest
nig-ht. “Plume” is famous for easy starting,
besides giving more mileage and ensuring
a clean cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
Have you seen the Manufacturer’s Recom-
mendation Chart, telling you the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloil with which to
lubricate your car ? If not, write us and it
will be mailed free. “A grade for each
type of Motor.” For sale at all dealers and
garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
Oa/io^
ert
ser
<&
m
<s!
C 3
0
as 9
©
©
Eli
SJ
BEST in THE LONG RUN
RIJVAI & CO 13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM , PERTH.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, iiobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.— N0. 1948.
THU US DAY, JUNE 14, 1917.
Price 6d.
THE OVERLANDER AND HIS PRUSSIAN WOLFHOUND.
Mr. Williams (Macquarie) said that any person advocating Conscription should be “driven down to the lowest depths of Hell."- Report of P.L.L. Conference.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL Ai TRAHAN NEWSPAPER.
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, oi
■Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Thk
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have Thf.
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Pest free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Lndgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.- —•N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu.. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. F. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commoniuealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., td.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 21 d.;
lOoz. to T2oz., 3d.; elsewhere, I/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
tlleZzai.
THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 1917.
BRAINS OR BOOTS—WHICH?
When the I.W.W. chose a boot as its
■i emblem it chose well. Its intention was to
display the article as a weapon of offence;
but in modern heraldry the thing stands for
a pseudo-democracy which bases its aspira-
tions on a count of feet rather than of heads.
To stand mankind on its skull and cause it.
to wave its boots in the air is an interesting
performance and has some spectacular value ;
but as an aid to reform or more bread-and-
butter or the development of larger world-
ideals it is rather futile. The theory of
democracy rests on the supposition that men
think, that their united thinking amounts to
Avisdom, and that, given perfectly fair play,
the people as a Avhole will act with discre-
tion and definite purpose. It is a theory
that has never yet been proved, owing to the
fact that a machine of absolutely fair play
has never yet been devised. With all the
electoral devices and constitutional improve-
ments of the lands that call themselves demo-
cratic, there remain legacies from the past
in the shape of custom, tradition and blind
political superstition that twist and tangle
the threads of poular government until
modern representative, institutions become
a mere mockery of the thing they might be.
A vote is merely .. scratch on paper; two
boots can carry that vote to the poll, and
the brain which should guide the citizen’s
action is of no account if the feet can be
persuaded to act Avithout it. And so it
comes about that the essential difference
between a mailed fist and a nailed boot is
often a very small one as far as the progress
of the world is dependent on either.
Democracy, however, or the thing that
looked most like it, has had some fine achieve-
ments. In times of extreme stress, when
the issue was plain and death and destruc-
tion were at the very door, the people in
all ages, from the time when the kings mis-
governed Ancient Rome to the hour when
the last French monarchy fell with a bump
in Paris, have done some united thinking
to good purpose. It is those successes of
the communal mind that have fanned into
flame the world-faith in democracy. Always
it has been felt that the people had it in
them to do great and straight things, and
that with a decent chance mankind at large
was the best guardian of the rights of man-
kind. But the disappointments have been
many, and the tramp of boots that carried
no thought to the poll has had a distressing
and discouraging sound in the ears of those
who have realised that there were big things
to do and little enough time for the job.
* * * *
Democracy is now on its trial as it has
never been since first the germ idea of the
thing caught the imagination of Athenians
who had grown tired of Fat in high places.
Balfour told the Canadians the truth last
week. “We are backing democracy,” he de-
clared, “with the last copper. If that fails
us then we are bankrupt indeed.” The
three big nations that have put most stress
on the voice of the people are in the vast,
scrap shoulder to shoulder; and four Eng-
lish-speaking States, numerically smaller
but still more completely under alleged
popular- control, are giving their united
shoulder to the slow but tremendous push
in the direction of victory. Added to these
is the new Russia, not at present a democ-
racy or even a nation, but a gigantic up-
heaval out of which democratic force may
grow. If this far-reaching (combine of
peoples, who more or less control their own
destinies, lets itself down and permits an
anti-democratic idea to triumph, the
world must as a natural consequence lose
faith in democracy. Yet the bitter fact
stands that at the very moment when the
roar of the cannon of liberty has so swelled
in volume that it can be heard day and night
in London, and when Armageddon has
reached its crisis, alleged democratic insti-
tutions are waving their boots in the air
and claiming that the triumph of Man must
consist in scratching the skies with a hob-
nail. The Leeds Conference, with as many
delegates apparently as it has supporters,
makes a noise indicating a complete lack of
knowledge of history, race aspirations and
geography. The P.L.L. uproar, which has
been seething in a corner of Sydney, is
truculently desirous of taking its political
cue from the meanest and most ignorant end
of the Russian revolutionary movement.
Even in splendid France, where democracy
has meant most and cost most, there are dis-
cordant elements that want the boots up
and the head down on the very eve of the
national vindication of its people’s sacrifices.
None of these things can be taken to mean
that the hearts of the nations have failed
them. It is not in the coldness of the feet
that the trouble lies, but in the numbness
of a section of the public brain. Democracy
has not yet been taught to think as a
democracy; and the tremendous danger of
the time lies in the fear that the better and
more thoughtful elements in the community
will lose all faith in the thing before their
own weight and influence has given it full
force and real meaning. If the world turns
down democracy, the Kaiser will have won,
even if he dangles at the end of a rope in
his victory. The resultant smash, if man
should lose faith in man, would be a bigger
calamity than the fall of the Roman Empire,
which subverted civilised life for a thousand
years.
* * * *
In no country has democracy made such
large claims as in Australia. Here more
than in any part of the planet the rule of
the people is supposed to have had fullest
scope and freest play. Yet the results are
not exactly encouraging. Judged by the
opinions expressed in the newspapers, the
words of the man in the street, and the atti-
tude of speakers at innumerable conferences,
our representative institutions are distrusted
and our politicians held in contempt. As
these have been up to now the mouthpiece
and working arm of democracy, the public
view of them is very like a condemnation of
democracy itself. Hitherto, of course, Aus-
tralia has never been compelled to face at
short notice any grave danger in connection
with which a popular decision might have
seriously affected our national future. The
Australian nation was born and nurtured in
peace, and some of the political issues on
which parties were divided were little more
serious than those which caused punters to
hold their breath while a Melbourne Cup was
being run ; but side by side with these lighter
matters were others of real importance, to
face which the democracy failed to rise with
real earnestness and zeal. The political
parties have made all possible use of the lack
of seriousness on the part of the electo s.
Machines have been created and systems
evolved for the benefit of the players in a
big game, and the men thrown up from the
ranks by these contrivances have seldom
possessed the character or ability to hold
public confidence. The brain and thought-
power of the democracy has never been given
a chance; always it has been the count of
boots rather than the appeal of ideas that
has had chief consideration. Lately the
P.L.L. expelled its leaders —some of them
rightly; some of them shamefully. The re-
sult is seen in the conference of the leader-
less body. Its brains, such as they were, are
gone, and only numerous and noisy boots
remain. That a party which was proud to
consist of boots rather than of intelligence
should produce the wrong sort of leaders was
inevitable. The whole field was made broad
and pleasant for the trickster and exceedingly
difficult and unpleasant for the straight,
thoughtful man. The result is not a failure
on the part of democracy, but a failure on
the part of a thing that usurped the name
and title of democracy and barred its path.
The coercive methods of the Labor body in
proscribing men for their honest opinion was
the Avarrant and guarantee of humbug.
Labor supporters were not asked to think or
encouraged to think; and abusive names were
at once attached to men who disliked or
opposed a single plank of a long and complex
platform. All this was a plain denial of the
theory and spirit of democracy; and there is
little enough sign that what is left of Labor
sees the error of its ways or feels any touch
of penitence. Yet Australia has a right to
give democracy a test, to keep the boots to
their proper job of carrying the brains about.
The vast majority of Australians desire to
think straight and act well; and there is still
the possibility of a system of politics and
government entirely clean and free from hum-
bug. But to bring it about the people must
take things into their own hands and turn
down the tricksters and party cliques. If
this is not done, democracy may pass out as
a dishonored and unworkable idea without
ever having had a trial.
GERMANY AS A WINNER.
It is no use spinning words about the
miseries the people have to bear because of
war. Everybody knows all about that.
There is probably not a man or woman in
Australia who does not look upon war with
loathing—who does not realise how mon-
strous an outrage upon civilisation all this
butchery is, nor fails to see that where
war is * there hell is yawning wide. But
reflections of this kind are not useful when
the horror is on the premises. The naked
facts of the hour have then to be faced, for
the issue turns on those facts and not on
theories of what ought to be or might have
been. And one of the outstanding facts of
to-day is that yells of “Stop-the-war!” ad-
dressed to an enemy who has not been
induced to stop by armed force cannot be
regarded by him as anything but an accept-
ance of defeat and an intimation that the
prize is his.
* * * *
What material or moral advantage could
be looked for by Australia in a peace thus
realised? If the Allies stop then Germany
wins, and the Mailed Fist rules the earth.
A victorious Germany straddling Europe
from Antwerp to Constantinople, with a
cowed and beaten France and Britain before
her, and behind her a disorganised chaos that
once was called Russia —such a nightmare
may be lightly thought of by some people. A
return of Germany flushed with victory to
the Pacific may also be regarded by the
knock-off crowd as of minor importance, and
the arrival of truculent German traders in
the Commonwealth considered an incident
calculated to give the brotherhood-of-man
doctrine a shove forward. But to The
Bulletin the mere mention of even these
superficial consequences sound like the open-
ing passages of a burial service over the
grave of the Australia that we know to-day
and of the hopes that we had of its future.
Australians need not make any mistake
about the kind of winner Germany would be.
Everything worth while that Australians
have stood for would wither before such a
conqueror. Australians would be the
helots of Berlin, their country Germanised
through and through within a generation,
their infant democracy a memory. As France
and Britain are fighting for the right to live,
so is this country. If they go down, Aus-
tralia goes down, and a braggart military
autocracy goes up. That military autocracy
was bad enough before. If it is given this
proof of its omnipotency, it will be simply
unendurable. Yet the men among us who
should hate it most are the very ones who
propose to put our necks under its heel!
When the cannibal consumed a missionary
the barbarian probably took his nourishment
in spite of frantic appeals from the victim to
suspend operations. If the visitor could
have managed to smite his captor many
severe blows on the head or the equator, jump
on him with both feet and rub his face in the
sand, it is more than likely that a truce
could have been arranged much more satis-
factory to the missionary. The position of
the people who are fighting with and for Aus-
tralians for their own safety and ours is very
much the same. It may be beyond their
powers to strike the German down. When
that is proved to be so the day will have
come to say so. But a lot of things will
have to happen before that can be said. It
may be that the invader can be thrown baca,
the nations he has ravaged taken from his
grasp, the people he has impoverished given
back their own again—their rights, their
liberties, their freedom to live as they want
to. But this could never happen by opposing
the enemy arms with allied yells to the
effect that war is barbarous, and that this
struggle is an infraction of pacifist princi-
ples. If a summons to the belligerents to
slyp the war could be worth 2d., the
United States would not be where they are
to-day, preparing to stop it by the method
France followed when the German crossed
into Belgium—the only possible means by
which it can be stopped except that of turn-
ing tail. And, while the moral dangers are
common to all the people of the world, the
dangers of the material kind that threaten
are to Australia incomparably greater than
they are to the United States. If, therefore,
a yell to stop the war was not sufficient for
the United States, far less can Australia
afford to use any such futile implements.
CHINA’S LATEST REVOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Another revolution at home —the fourth
in six years! The first, in 1911. destroyed
the old Manchu dynasty; the second, in
1913, which failed, was a protest against
Yuan Siii Kai’s administration as Presi-
dent; the third, in 1916, defeated Yuan’s
bid for Imperial power. Now nine provinces
have revolted and a provisional military
Government in Tientsin has applied to the
Powers for recognition. In effect this
latest rising is an attempt by the Conserva-
tive factions (the old regime) to maintain
their autocratic powers against the Radical
and Republican parties, which are battling
for a workable Constitution, and in part it is
due to the absence of a strong man with a
punch.
Politically, China may be divided into two
parts—Southern China, where the Republi-
can movement centres, and Northern China,
the stronghold of the Military party, who
are the crusted Tories of those regions.
Political power rests with the army, which
although paid by the Government is not con-
trolled by it. It is really a collection of
armies giving loyalty to various generals,
usually the rulers of the provinces. In
Manchu times the strength of the monarchy
or Government depended on the support of
these generals, or, as it worked out in prac-
tice, upon the support of some individual
general or statesman who held the others
together by his personality. Li Hung
Chang, for instance, kept the Manchus in
safety, and another man. a protege of Li
and almost his equal in craft and brain, did
the same until his death last vear This
other was Yuan Siii Kai. who. moved bv a
grent ambition, became President, made him-
self Emperor, enjoyed a short and shakv
reign of 12 weeks and then funked it and
died.
In 1913 a rebellion broke out in the
South because Yuan was not plaving the
game according to the rules laid down in
the Republican’s Handbook. Yuan won
again and chased Sun Yat Sen and other
kindred spirits off the premises. Then he
dissolved Parliament, suspended it indefi-
nitely and otherwise hinted that the time
was ripe for the restoration of the monarchv
with himself in the star part. Thus was
begun the dynasty of Hung Hsien. which
being interpreted signifies Brilliant Pros-
perity—the prosperity, that is, of Yuan and
his 40-odd children and his 30 wives.
Persons likely to prove troublesome were
banished, imprisoned or assassinated. Yuan’s
agents silently spread through the provinces,
working secretly but effectively to prepare
the people for the change; and it was
arranged to take a ballot on the question of a
return to the monarchical system in
order to ensure peace, order, stability,
good government, etc. The ballot was so
well managed that not a single vote was cast
in opposition to Yuan’s view. Still, the
crafty Yuan refused the throne until a
lengthy and flowery petition signed by the
great and noble of the land had been pre-
sented to him. That being forthcoming, on
December 12, 1915, he took the chair. But
in the hour of victory his nerve failed him.
One of the southern provinces threatened to
revolt. The Yuan of other days would huve
wasted not a moment, but gone for that pro-
vince with a big bamboo, and come out top-
dog or in pieces. The enervated Yuan hesi-
tated and was lost. The revolt spread; he
climbed down again from the Emperor’s
throne to the President's chair, and was still
haggling with the .Republican provinces,
which demanded his absolute retirement,
when he died on June 6. 1916.
Li Yuan-llung, Vice-President, who suc-
ceeded him, and who, at time of writing, is.
according to the cables, “virtually a prisoner
in Pekin,” has none of lluan’s personality
or force. During that dominating person’s
Presidency, Li, indeed, suffered himself to be
confined in luxurious quarters in the Im-
perial Yamen. I believe he would much
rather have continued a prisoner than become
a President. But he had no option. He was
made President. He was a vague sort of
person, unlikely to do anything of his own
volition, and therefore the very man the
warring factions wanted. He would not in
terfere in their struggles. On Yuan’s death
the Parliament he had dispersed came
together again ; and ever since a battle has
raged round the adoption of a Constitution,
the Republican and Radical sections fighting
against the efforts of the old regime to block
reform and trying to smash the Cabinet and
the Premier, Tuan Ciii-jui, who had re-
fused to recognise Parliament or to report to
it. The public offices, all in control of the
Military party and the supporters of the
Manchus, are likewise beyond the reach of
Parliament, which, composed of a House of
Representatives and a Senate totalling 700
members, has nothing to do but talk.
The present fracas is the immediate out-
come of the Constitutional struggle, aggra-
vated by the action of the President in join-
ing with America in a protest against Ger-
many’s submarine campaign. Hitherto, China
has never interfered in any way in the
affairs of the outside world, and although the
old regime does not sympathise with the
Hun, it disapproved of the steps recently
taken as a departure from old-established
custom and “the usual order of things.”
The new Military Government will prob-
ably maintain a neutral attitude towards the
war and devote its energies to securing a
Constitution that will suit the autocrats and
restrict the rights of the Republican pro-
vinces in the South. If, on the other hand,
the South wins, there will be a broader Con-
stitution, and probably participation in the
war. But between now and then anything
else may happen.
J. J. S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Dread of Knowing the Public Will.
The anger which is produced -- in certain
alleged democrats by the suggestion that a
matter of vast concern should be re-sub-
mitted to the people wants explaining. Why
do the opponents of compulsory Service pro-
fess to regard it as treason and infamy to
suggest that Australia might be basked again
what it thinks on the Question of system
versus chance in military affairs? Referenda
on other questions affecting the Common-
wealth have been taken again and again
with the full assent of those who wish the
Conscription issue to be regarded as settled
for ever. There is a stronger reason why
this, question should be resubmitted. Aus-
tralia was asked last spring to; agree to
compulsory service in order to hasten victory
and peace; and the reply was a by no means
emphatic No. Since then conditions have
changed considerably owing to the turn of
affairs in Russia. To ask Australia whether
or not those events have affected its opinion
is quite as reasonable and desirable as it
was to ask whether it had an opinion in the
first place. The will of Australia to-day
should be the law of Australia, not what its
will was last year or 5D years ago; and
any party or organisation which tries to
defeat the ascertainment of that will or to
prevent it becoming law when ascertained
is a traitor to the community and an enemy
of democratic government. Failing any
other explanation of their attitude, the anger .
and fear of these people is in itself a solid
reason why another referendum should be
taken. For it suggests strongly that they
believe Australia will say “Yes” next time.
Does Pearce Fill the Bill?
Australia wants a Minister for Defence
who is up to his job. In the field of admin-
istration it wants nothing so badly,
for no other department in the Common-
wealth comes anywhere near that of
Defence in its immediate importance to


the nation. It is responsible for
organisation and the expenditure of «
f 7.000.000 per month. At the head of this
vast business is Pearce* an ;
appearances, Teakce is as hopelessly
overloaded as if he wete cftri> a s
brewery. True, appearances may ,
an injustice; in that case it should be •
immediate task of the Federal Governm
put him right in the eyes of the community
—to satisfy Australia by a report nom
independent Board of Inquiry which
been for months past at work that .
partment has been well administered. .
are iSO reasons why the Government sho
do this. It would be hard to guess ev
one reason why it should not. If an un e -
standing” was arrived at in a cellar orsome-
V.here during the incubation of the husion
that no change was to be made at the Detenc
Office in the event of a win at the pons,
there would still be an obligation upon t e
Government to justify itself. If there wa
ho such pact, a report from the lnquiiy
Board is quite as necessary. This is not a
matter to be approached in a spirit of paity
rancor; but every patriot, no matter wha
his political hue —every man who wants to
win the war —is entitled to at least have
Some reasonable assurance that the Com-
inbnwealth Parliament is honestly convinced,
oh all procurable evidence, that I earce s
administration has been satisfactory. And
it cannot have all procurable evidence until
it calls for a report of what the Board ort
Inquiry has discovered.
The Trail of Party Politics.
If bulk-handling of wheat had been intro-
duced during the last few years any time
since it was definitely promised by politi-
cians—N. S. Wales to-day would have 10U
million bushels or more stored snugly in
elevators, instead of millions of hurst bags
and collapsing stacks. No one can say what
the mice plague is going to cost, but Home
pessimists reckon that CoCky is mote likely
to receive in the final settlement another
threepence per bushel for his wheat than the
Is. to Is. 6d. he had been led to expect for
the 1916-17 crop. With elevators the mice
could not damage the stored wheat. It is
problematical, indeed, whether there would
have been a plague at all, as the little beasts
have multiplied so appallingly by reason
of the plenitude and availability of food
and snug quarters. Now, for 10 years at
least bulk-handling has been promised by
both the old political gangs. The Oarru-
Thers and Wade Governments both dangled
this bait before the wheat-farmers at elec-
tions. But neither built any elevators or did
more than obtain reports another elec-
tion was approaching and it was necessary
to appear to be doing something. The
McGowen-Holman crowd likewise pro-
mised the speedy establishment of the sys-
tem, and in country districts made much of
the other fellow’s failure. In power for six
years, they simply played the old game,
however, successive Ministers for Agricul-
ture betraying wild enthusiasm in the matter
about election time and obtaining more
reports. So the trickery went on. By a
strange irony the first definite move in the
way of calling for tenders was made within
the last few months, when money bad
become scarce and dear. Then the business
was opposed, on the grounds of economy, by
the Liberal press which had barracked for
bulk-handling for years. Th i real reason,
of course, was that a Labor Government had
introduced the actual scheme. So this can
be said quite definitely: had there been no
party politics in the way, our arrangements
by this time would have been such that
the mice plague would have been a mere
circumstance instead of a tragedy.
Misrepresentation in the Senate.
It having again been shown that the Aus-
tralian Senate is a preposterously unrepre-
sentative chamber, the public once more
hears that the joke or whatever it is can
be easily remedied by adopting a propor-
tional system. Well, it is clear enough that,
as a general thing, somewhere about half the
Australian people either have no representa-
tion at all in the Senate or manage to get
only a few lone representatives through the
front door. At various times _ Labor has
achieved overwhelming majorities, bearing
no sort of relation to the vote recorded in
the constituencies. Last month the other
thing happened. Liberalism, which had been
scandalously under-represented in the past,
swept the board. Labor was overwhelmed
and emerged from the demented proceedings
with an undiscoverable minority, 45 per cent,
of the populace being represented by a voting
strength of 0. Wherefore many well-mean-
ing people, scandalised at this travesty on
popular representation, rush to the conclu-
sion that the proportional system applied to
the Senate would give the electors a fair
deal by returning members in proportion to
the strength of political opinion in the elec-
torates. The answer to this is that it would
do nothing of the kind. Violent hands must
be laid upon the very foundations of the
Senate and the whole concern turned upside
down before proportionalism can get a
chance. To apply the proportional _ system
to the election of a branch of the Legislature
rooted upon disproportion—which gives one
voter in the Speck the strength of 10 voters
in N. S. Wales —would be a mockery of the
voting system employed. By use at last
election of the single transferable vote or
the scrutin de liste and the double simul-
taneous vote, it is possible, though not at
all certain, that from each State a Labor
candidate might have been returned to the
Senate. But the composition of the Chamber
could not possibly have been made in any
rational sense proportional by such polling
methods, for the Senate is based upon a terri-
torial representation, and this is a negation
of representation in the human sense. People
have a right to be dissatisfied with the Sen-
ate because its membership is invariably a
distortion of popular sentiment. But if
they really want to achieve reform it can
only be done by throwing the Senate into
the melting-pot; and then the question of
what method of election shall be followed
becomes a secondary issue. Swapping opinions
about proportional representation may even
be a convenient method of keeping the real
Senate problem out of sight.
German Dreams.
In that impressive booklet, “The Pentecost
of Calamity,” Owen Wister. writer of “The
Virginians,” quotes from the letter of
an American parent recently living in Berlin,
who had placed his children in a school
there
The text-books were unique. I suppose there was
not in any book of physics or chemistry an admis-
sion that a citizen of some other country had taken
any forward step ; every step was by some line of
argument assigned to a German. The history of the
modern world is the work of German Heroes. The
oddest example, however, was the geography used
by Katherine [his daughter, aged 13]. This con-
tained maps indicating the German spheres of in-
fluence in foreign lands in striking colors. In North
and South America, including the United States and
Canada, there are said to be three classes of inhabi-
tants —negroes, Indians and Germans. For the
United States there is a black belt for negroes, and
a middle-west section for Indians ; the rest is German
Sphere of Influence. Canada is occupied mainly by
Indians. The matter was brought to my attention
because one of Katherine’s school friends asked her
whether she was of negro or Indian blood; and
when she replied she was neither her friend pointed
out that this was impossible, for she surely was not
German.
The disputed question whether Owen
Wister’ s book contributed much or little to
America’s national resolve to join in is of
little importance. What really matters is
the fact that the next generation of Huns
can hardly be any wiser than the swollen-
headed sayages who went mad in August,
1914. Man and maid are, for political pur-
poses, not so much what they eat as what
they have learned at school. The Hun infant
of to-day, carefully educated to believe that
the German is the super-man, will be the
drilled soldier of to-morrow with whom Aus-
tralia will have to reckon if the Fatherland
recovers its colonies after the war and re-
tains its Fleet. The idea of a mentally-
recreated Germany within the next *.O
years is only a pacifist’s flabby dream.
America is at last in the gory turmoil
because her thinking statesmen realised the
danger in Germany’s poisonous creed of
World Conquest. And Australia will get
more earnestly into it when she quite under-
stands that Germans regard this, too,
as a continent of Deutsche Gehiete, which
“vill soon belong to Us.”
Our Chances.
Geokge D. Meudell writes from the United
States: —•
Every day one lives in a state of comparison
seemingly unavoidable, contrasting the conditions of
life in America with those of Australia. And every
day deeper into one’s bones sinks the truth that we
Australians are an exceedingly fortunate people. We
have a splendid country, with fine climates and
good soils; we are fairly free, as things are (there
is really no free people on this earth) ; and we
have not to contend with the presence of millions of
foreigners, aliens by race, by faith, by language, y
tradition. So let us thank God wholeheaitedlj.
The people of the United States face two problems
of importance: the making - of America and the mak-
ing of Americans. They have encouraged immigra-
tion of unparalleled magnitude. In 1914 nearly two
million strangers arrived in this Republic! In some
communities their numbers actually preponderate.
No effort is made to bring them into the body politic,
and nobody tries to make them Americans, so they
remain aliens by the million. In some cities and
districts there are solid blocks of people who neither
understand nor speak English. They came here to
make a better living and to escape military service.
Lacking love of native land and birthplace, they can-
not be expected to care for the country of adoption,
and they simply do not. A large number of them
do not even make permanent.homes here and do not
marry. They have no acquaintance with the his-
tory or traditions of this great nation. They live in
their own way, and, retaining their own attitudes
of mind towards government and religion, they are
never properly absorbed by the community, and in
consequence do not become good citizens.
The Americans have become too rich and successful
too suddenly, and live in an era signalised by
unrestrained individualism. They have been more
anxious to create wealth than citizenship, and have
neglect d posterity for prosperity. Without any
desire to ‘decry them, the travelled observer would
say they lack “balance” and need character. To
millions of Americans good food and plenty is a new
joy, and liberty a gift of the gods. They attain
these boons of food and freedom so quickly and
easily that they become conceited, and their vanity
is boyish. In future I shall laugh internally, but
not out loud, at American claims to universal superi-
ority, and not complain when they admit they are
the finest people on the earth, inhabiting God’s only
footstool —which this continent is not by any means.
Here, then, is an unorganised commonwealth,
choked ’with human beings, lacking co-ordination, in
the mass ignorant, and as to blood and faith im-
pure and becoming worse. Pray God we Australians
may never forget our ideals, national or ethical! Our
politics are unmoral, our present politicians the
crystallisation of incompetence. But those things
are merely transient, and if we native sons of Aus-
tralia do our duty and properly regard our national
welfare, we ought soon to have proper government
and honest finance. And the beginning of that
accomplishment is to abolish party government, and
suppress the half-educated political larrikins who
control our policies and politics in every Australian
State.
The Moratorium.
Concerning another postponement of the
evil day :
Hughes’s intentions when he proclaimed the
moratorium were no doubt good; he desired to
encourage recruiting by preventing greedy dealers,
who believe in getting their own and as much of
other people’s as possible, from harassing the women-
folk when the men were away. But the man’s posi-
tion was not apparently considered at all.
Accustomed to receiving a few shillings each week
above her rent and housekeeping expenses, and finding
herself with money to burn each fortnight, and no man
to tell her not to waste it, the woman on the dealer’s
books is having a rare old time. The man at the
Front fancies from his wife’s letters that the debt is
being steadily reduced and looks forward to the time
when he will return to a free home. His wife, who
is making her neighbor green with envy because of
her now smart hats, boots and dresses, does not un-
deceive him. She is having a good time while she
can. If the furniture people only were affected the
trouble would be bad enough; but it is enhanced in
that so many satisfied and steady, decent women in
the pre-war days have become almost “fast cats in
their altered and uncontrolled circumstances. What
was good enough wheft Bill was here is not nearly
good enough now. There will be Sheol to pay when
the men return and find that the old debts still have
to be wiped out, with 6 per cent, interest.
Where Hughes erred was in failing to make pro-
vision for ascertaining each soldier’s responsibilities
when he enlisted. Had this been done con-
fidentially by the appointment of magistrates or
other tribunals to ascertain just whether each man
could afford to have a small percentage taken for the
reduction of his indebtedness, much of the misery and
domestic disturbance which is looming ahead could
have been obviated. The Government itself might
have undertaken the steady reduction of these debts
during the time the soldier was in the service of the
country. That would have given a great impetus to
recruiting, for while it is true that many men
enlisted to escape their debts, many others who are
buying homes —and these make the best fighters—
have refrained for fear of their families losing every-
thing if they should fall in the fight. Even now it
is not too late for the Federal Government to move
in the matter of securing such information. If only
ss. or 10s. per fortnight was deducted from the
military pay, and distributed pro rata among the
creditors, it. would ward off some of the impending
trouble.
♦
The next time Conscription or citizen ser-
vice, or whatever you like to call it, is advo-
cated, for Heaven’s sake let no apologies be
made for it; let it not be put forward as so
questionable a thing that it is requisitioned
for this occasion only. It is not a bad
thing; it is not even a questionable thing.
In the raising of an army in a democratic
country it is the only right thing. Every
other plan is wrong. This is the only one
that is not unjust, wasteful and -uncertain.
It is based on principle, not expediency ; and
it is on this high ground that its opponents
must be met and fought. Suppose this war
had never been. Suppose, instead, that
some nation or combination of nations had
invaded England; and suppose we had
definite information that, if victorious, it
proposed to re-introduce slavery—plain slav-
ery—throughout the British colonies. What
system would we adopt to defeat the enemy
and his purpose? Would we say then that
the man who liked to take a hand might, and
that the man who didn’t care to needn t a
We should if the voluntary system is right
and compulsory service is wrong.
Our system of recruiting has been a bogus
voluntaryism all along. The other day, at
Broken Hill, Barnett, the secretary of the
Miners’ Ass., which runs a local paper,
was fined £IOO, in default nine months”
gaol, for publishing an article “prejudicial’
to recruiting.” Under a real voluntary
system press and platform would no more
be punishable for opposing than for advo-
cating enlistment. If a citizen is to be
perfectly free to go or not to go to the
Front the press and platform ought to be
as perfectly free to advise him either way—
to show him why he should go or to give
him reasons why he should stay at home. It
was the Labor Government that imposed
practically all the restrictions against free
comment and advice; it was under one of
the regulations of the Labor Government
that Barnett of Broken Hill was dealt with.
This shows that the Labor Government dared
not go the whole way in voluntaryism--dared:
not carry the absurd thing to its logical
conclusion. Throughout we have been try-
ing to win this war in an unhealthy atmo-
sphere of humbug and make-believe. It is;
time we filled our lungs with good, clean air,,
and frankly and openly took the straight
path.
John Bull professes to see appalling danger
in the proposal to grant Home Rule to Ire-
land ; yet he has, right under his nose, three
other communities that have enjoyed com-
plete self-government for centuries and re-
main healthy and loyal. The Isle of Man
has a Parliament of which the Lower Hou,se
(the House of Keys) is said to be older than
the Parliament at Westminster. The Upper
House, the Tynwald, is comparatively an
upstart, going back only five or six centuries.
A couple of years ago the two Houses fell
out over a question of finance, and the Tyn-
wald went on strike, the Peers refusing to
transact any public business whatsoever.
You may speak in the Manx Parliament in
either English or Manx, or in both, if you
please, and all laws must be read out at the
close of the session in both tongues. No
man on this occasion may make any disturb-
ance “under pain of hanging and drawing.”
Even Royal assent does not validate a law
passed by these Chambers unless it be subse-
quently promulgated on Tynwald Hill.
Although Man has two Houses it has no
parties, and manages to get on quite well
without them. The Channel Islands also
have Home Rule. Guernsey (including
Alderney and Sark) has both Lords and
Commons. The Governor may speak in the
Lords, but cannot vote; the “States” or
Houses cannot, however, meet without his
consent. Jersey, the third self-governing
community in English waters, has discarded
the bi-cameral system, and rejoices now in
one Chamber only. French or English may
be spoken in all the Channel Assemblies,
though Guernsey clings to a quaint old Nor-
man-French patois that beats a Frenchman
and baffles an Englishman—quaint proof, in
the circumstances, that it isn’t only English-
men that England can afford to trust with
Home Rule. To the Australian these facts
are interesting as showing that a commu-
nity may flourish with two Parliament
Houses or with one only, and that the party
system is not vital to their welfare. To the
Irish-Australian they are doubly interesting
as exemplifying the truth that self-governing
communities under British rule may exist
within a few miles of the English coast and
yet be healthy, loyal and prosperous.
The Bulletin’s old contributor, Professor
Delmek, for many years past in Berlin, has
been exchanged at length for a Bosche, and
has reached London. There, in a series, of
articles in The Times, he has been warning
Britain that the stories of riots in Germany
and the impending collapse of everything are
all moonshine. Some food is scarce, and the
German star is waning, but the nation
hasn’t got its tail between its legs by any
means. To any suggestion that the German
isn’t a winner so far the reply is the same
as that flung over his shoulder by a Hun
prisoner, who was asked by a ribald Tommy,
“Well. Fritzie, who’s winning now?” “Look
at the map,” Tommy was told. It is all-
important to know the German mind when
we talk peace proposals. Believing himself
a winner, he must believe the Allies a loser;
and talk of peace from the party that he
believes is losing only confirms him in his
belief that that side knoivs it is losing.
To talk of peace at present therefore merely
bucks up the German and inspires him with
the confidence which is such an enormous
asset in war.
♦
Nine months ago Gilruth was summoned
from the national backyard to Melbourne.
The idea was that he should confer with
the Ministry about the vague, intangible
thing spoken of as “the policy relating to
the Northern Territory.” After prolonged
conferring that Ministry fell into the tomb.
Apparently Gilruth had then to confer with
the next lot. Before the proceedings ter-
minated they, too, hit a snag, and for a long
time there was nothing but uproar, in the
midst of which Gilrutii’s appointment
reached the end of the section. The situa-
tion was saved by hurriedly re-appointing
him pro tem. and keeping him handy to con-
fer with later on. Thus Gilruth goes steadily
on with his job of lifting £SO or so a week
and waiting for conferences about a policy.
At the risk of seeming impetuous and dis-
tracting attention from the war, Tile Bul-
letin feels obliged to remark that the time
seems about ripe for the Commonwealth to
do something.
♦
“Copabella” : Publicity more than anything
else accounts for the craze for imported
whisky (B. 24/5./’l7. Nobody ever hears
of an Australian brand, while even the tem-
perance advocates “boost” imported names.
I took over a stock the other day and found
several dozen Australian whisky, bought
many years ago. Well-known imported
quarts were beginning to climb up to half a
sovereign, so I made a strong bid to “unload”
my Australian stuff. I offered it at
the old pre-war price. I dropped
Raiding.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Halt! Who’s there? Sergeant to report.
Low! Keep low, till the last star sets.
Muster in the fire-bay nearest to the port.
Near a score of blackened faces, hands and
bayonets. , . ~
Pray the little gods that watch make the
gunners blind, .
Guide their traverses awry, strike then
sinews slack ! , _ ,
Shed your badges, drop your kit, leave your
discs behind— ia
Something for a keepsake if you don t come
back!
Duck along the duckboards! Steady, or
you'll slip! , .
Where the mud comes up between, watch the
going first! .
Keep your blooming mouth shut! 1 litnic
you're on a trip .
Out to LIZZIE’S ragtime-sliop, back in uar-
linghurst ?
Trained? Yes, fine —like racers for the Cup!
Yonder lies the winning-post, still as death
as yet —•
Fritz and his machine-gun {pup-pup-pup-
puh-up!). ..
Soon enough you’ll hear ’em sweep down the
parapet.
Toss aside the sandbags that smother up the
sap; |
Coming back — if we come back —we 11 pack
’em snug again ;
Past the gate to No-Man’s Land, pouring
through the gap,
Charge and scream like forty fiends, yelling
through the rain.
Ducking past the duckboards, stakes and
rusty wire,
Common swad. and officer, men as good as
you; . .
Sooner have our slippers on, sitting by the
fire; , ,
Rather be at home in bed —but there s worn
to da!
Holes! ’Ware holes! Look and leap and
pass—
Quick! Stride quick where the rotting
bodies lie,
Crashing through the ribs of men in the hip-
high grass. ,
Cursing, sweating, stumbling—hear their
lines reply!
Hear the scary gunfire break ! See the Very
lights!
Pace and squatter through the mud (is it
mud or glue?).
Fritz, you’re where we’d like to be on these
winter nights;
Shame to drag you out at all —but we re
wanting you !
Rip and fumble through their wire, swing
and tear and shift,
Fall and lie or find your feet (some are lying
still) ....
Foot and fist and butt drive home, club and
side-arm lift—
Ho, the hounds of war are out, smelling for
the kill!
Back! Strike back! Mad and fighting-
blind !. . . .
Home, turn home —and chance your way
across!
Many a gunner and his gun lie in smash
behind —
Many an empty funk-hole beneath the
parados!
Scatter for the lines again, dodge and run
and stop,
Crawl, and thread the welcome grass, till the
trench you win;
Press the wound and struggle on, and if you
should drop,
Find a friendly shell-hole —and we’ll bring
you in !
Ducking to the duckboards through the
sally-port,
Rear a score of us went out —ten are
overdue.
Nine of us with naught to lose (time and
joy are short) —
Call again and call for men, we'll be here
for you!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


An Urgent Reminder to New South Wales Farmers;
ON JULY 1 only a fortnight from this date —every farmer in N. S. Wales is liable to compensate any employee injured in his service. The new Workmen’s
Compensation Act, which operates as from July 1, provides these allowances: Death, £500; Permanent Disablement, £750; During Total of Partial Disable-
ment, up to £2 per week.
There is only one protection against these risks —insurance with a reputable company.
Ti e Farmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
is THE Farmers* Insurance Company*
It is a co-operative company owned by farmers.
The co-operating farmer secures his insurances at absolute cost price—the profits from his insurance business being returned in dividends.
WRITE THE MANAGER AT ONCE. Give particulars of your wages sheet, and the lowest rates will be quoted.
DO NOT DELAY—Your risks begin on July 1.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. BRANCHES IN VICTORIA AND SOOTH AOSTRALIA.
below that. I marked it “4s. 6d., for-
merly 6s. 6d.” I tried all the sales-
methods I knew and a few others I got from
America. I gave free samples. But no one
would touch the “ colonial stuff,” except
as a sample. The store was one of those
relics of the digging days where old clients
were taken down to the “end counter” when
they drove in for their weekly purchases, and
refreshed with “three fingers” of the best.
The store’s traditional “best” was “Whosit’s
No. 90.” Refreshments ran to two or three
bottles per week, and it struck me that here
was an opportunity to pass out the
unwanted Australian disguised as a gift
horse. I therefore substituted a nice decan-
ter for the black bottle and the Australian
pot-still for Whosit’s No. 90 inside it. I
don’t know whether the action was strictly
moral, but as a teetotaller and a cynic I got
a lot of amusement out of seeing well-
seasoned connoisseurs hold up nobblers of
my native brew to the light as they ex-
claimed, “That’s the real McKay! That’s
different from the colonial stuff you
tried to ring into me for 4s. 6d.!” Judging
by the district opinion of that little lot of
Australian whisky there should be no trouble
to create a liking for it if local distillers
dared to spend a bob or two in telling folks
about it.
The Long - , Up-hill Road.
This at least can be said about Russia: the
bad thing that has happened probably pre-
vented a far worse. If Czardom had re-
mained on deck there seems no reasonable
doubt that Russia would have been sold body
and hones to Berlin. It was to prevent this
that the revolution was launched, and though
the disturbance has, for the present at any
rate, called into existence new groups of ex-
tremists and wild-eyed visionaries, it does no
harm to remember that the blame cannot he
laid against the revolutionists. From them
the Allies can at least expect something:
from Czardom there was nothing to come
but betrayal. If a revoluting Russia is
not what France was looking for, it cer-
tainly is not what Germany hoped for or
expected. Meantime the fact that “Mr. and
Mrs. Romanoff” and the political heads of
the old regime are prisoners at Petro-
grad is of more than passing import-
ance, and may lead to the revolution
getting its second wind instead of a
quick knock-out. Wherefore, although
news that Von Hinpenburg is wheeling his
legions westward has an ugly look, it is less
depressing than would have been an an-
nouncement that they were tramping through
to Petrograd and Moscow, with the Czar
waiting to discuss the matter. Further,
though the position is hideously bad, it has
within it the elements of redemption. That a
wholesale quit by Russia would be a terrible
blow to the Allies is, of course, certain; but
the arrival of Uncle with the goatee takes
from even this peril many of its more sinister
possibilities. Nothing can be more certain
than that Brother Jonathan is in this dis-
turbance with his coat off and both sleeves
rolled up. And his presence is going to
hearten Russia and all the world besides.
Carrying his mighty symbol of freedom,
he is not going into the ghastly job before
him with wild yells about Germans and
Prussians, but with the grim realisation that
if what the Hoiienzollern dynasty stands
for remains unbroken, then what the democ-
racies of the United States and France and
Britain stand for goes down beneath the heel
of a blasphemous tyranny. How big the job
is we in Australia have scarcely commenced
to realise. But neither our Governments nor
our people will be making any mistake by
bringing themselves to believe that the end is
yet far off, and that every nation taking part
in the struggle will be shaken to its boots
before the clean-up begins. There was a vic-
tory the other day over the Germans at the
salient near Ypres. It was a brilliant feat
of arms; but the worst use we can make of
it is to exaggerate its significance. The
enemy is still powerful, courageous and re-
sourceful, and the last thing on earth he is
thinking about is a smoke-oh. By men and
a steadfast resolution alone may the free
nations of the world pull the teeth of a
despotism well supplied with both.
“Mujik” : The yarn about the “impossi-
bility” of levying Federal and State income
taxes in one hit is no good; nor does the
further allegation that making the tax pay-
able in quarterly or half-yearly instalments
would involve a tremendous increase in the
cost of collection look any better. Red Tape
always argues this way, and always will.
The facts are simple. This writer during the
year receives stationery from two different
authorities calling upon him to furnish par-
ticulars of income. He complies, and in
return obtains more stationery commanding
him to make two separate payments. Obvi-
ously there is work being done up to this
stage by two gangs of computers, clerks,
bookkeepers, stamp-lickers and letter-carriers
that could be done by one. After deduction
of life-insurance premium and an allowance
for maintaining tw o kids, who are officially
supposed to exist a diet of locusts and
wild honey, one Government taxes the rem-
nant of a small income on the curve of the
first degree, and ii isists on getting £5; the
other Government lobs on a super-tax, and
also wants £5. I’o allege that one clerk
cannot manage tlnase transactions is to in-
vite the derision of every accountant in the
land. Even if it were true that instalment
payments would lead to additional clerical
work, this could at least be done by the
crowd set free frcn n the task of pursuing the
citizen with one d< mand instead of two. The
public convenience of splitting payments is
unquestionable. ,How many life-insurance
premiums are paid in one annual lump?
And how many new policies could the offices
get if they ruled out all but annual pay-
ments ?
According to Federal Works Minister
Watt, the Government doubts whether it
should spend more money at Canberra. It
had better get rid of the doubts at once.
Armageddon has happened since the fool-
ishness or crime was decided on, and a
vast debt such as Australia didn’t then con-
template will keep Australia scratching hard
for many years to come. The whole - thing
should therefore be considered anew —just
as the Bank of N. S. Wales has considered
anew the question of shouting itself a new
capital in the shape of head offices.
Since the war started Maoriland’s finance
has been more tricky than ever. The coun-
try has made millions out of the war and
cadged additional millions of loan money.
The evil results to- the common herd have
been twofold: they have been saddled with
the war-cost of loejal produce and with the
burden of immense trading profits converted
by the holders into permanent debt. When
Joe Ward was trumpeting about "the
success” of last year's local borrowing, this
paper pointed out that the profiLmonger
was the gainer—that the accumulation of
debt, instead of using the national earnings
to liquidate the war bill, would, impose terri-
ble hardships on the community. If it is
possible in Maoriland without getting into
gaol to point out that yells about the Ger-
mans and the Empire ought not to cover up a
conspiracy to defraud the people—that run-
ning a war on p.n. and get-rich-quick prin-
ciples is an abomination —there is certainly
something to talk about.
Jockeying for position in the race for Mel-
bourne’s gaud-mayoralty is again going on,
with the same field as last year. Importer
Cabena, photographer Weedon and David
Hennessy, who still wears the dog-collar of
office after five years of the round of pink
cakes and fat cigars, are the three starters.
The betting, as usual, is on Hennessy, but
Cabena is reckoned to have at least as good
a chance as last year. Weedon is the dark-
room horse.
Exit Thomas Henry Lempriere, 92, son of
ex-Commissary-General Lempriere, of V.D.L.
He was one of the last links with the Sys-
tem, having been Commissariat Clerk at
Port Arthur under O’Hara Booth and
Champ in the early ’4o’s. On some maps of
the Tamar is still to be found Port Lem-
priere, called after Tom, who iron-mined
there with the aid of English and Victorian
capital nearlv 50 years ago. The enterprise
was opened with a great flourish of trumpets
by Governor Du Cane, and one of the old
T.S.N. Co.’s steamers, under charter, con-
veyed Victorian shareholders and, their
friends to the scene. But the auspicious
kick-off didn’t prevent the mine turning out
a wrong ’un. After expending over £70,000
in raising ore and erecting works the iron
was found to be too brittle, owing to the
presence of a small percentage of chromium,
which the metallurgists of that time were
unable to eliminate. Though latterly the
world had not wagged too well with T. H.
Lempriere, he preserved his marvellous
cheerfulness till the ringing down of the
curtain.
George Fuller, Acting-Premier of N. S.
Wales, asked what he thought of holding up
the building of Canberra, said he couldn’t
approve of any change—it was he who, years
ago, as Home Secretary, had proposed that
the work should go ahead- Apparently
Fuller doesn’t notice now that a war, the
costliest in history, has broken out since
then. But he noticed it all right when, on
the pretext that everything else but the war
should be forgotten, he joined in advocating
a “National” Government. If Fuller is
entitled to be where he is, he is equally
entitled to turn a somersault on Canberra.
Ninety this week, Thomas Burgoyne, one
of the numerous grand-old-men of S. Aus.
Welsh by birth, he has been in Australia
since 1848. He was mayor of Port Augusta,
founder and editor of the local Dispatch,
member of S.A. Assembly for over 30 years
(only dropping out at 88), chairman of the
old-time Independent Country Party (now
extinct), and a member of several of the
quick-change Ministries at the end of the
century.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Canary Cottage”
Criterion “Penelope’
Palace “Turn to the Right
Tivoli . .. Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
St. James’ Hall (16th) “The Jaekeroo”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pink Lady”
Royal “Grumpy”
King’s “The White Chrysanthemum”
Tivoli “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” and Vaudeville
Auditorium The Cherniavskys
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Olimpia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Athenaeum Hall Gerald Massey
“Canary Cottage” had been run up at Syd-
ney Majesty’s about three-quarters of an
hour before Dorothy Brunton arrived and
put a light in the window. It’s astonishing
what slow starters these puff-pastry shows
are. After the cheerful but unexplained chorus
of well-dressed idlers has sung a little and
dancqd a great deal, a couple of second-line
principals with running-on-and-off parts
arrive breathless with excitement. But the
audience knows them of old and remains
calm. Their mission in life is to explain to
each other at great length that someone’s #
rich aunt is just arriving, and that the 25
singing girls and their 18 sedate gentlemen
friends must be concealed under the table at
once, otherwise all is lost and Dicky will be
disinherited. The present stage delusion is
that the musical-farce audience —long since
broken in to accept gay inconsequences—
must be started off with the idea that there’s
going to be a real plot thin time. No doubt
it pacifies the author whose work has been
cut to ribbons to see some of the darned
stuff left iu. So for more than half an hour
on Saturday a big house existed on a couple
of numbers, including the opening chorus.
It was too long between drinks.
# * * *
The composers and authors of “So Long,
Letty,” haven’t done so well in the “Cot-
tage,” which hasn’t as many song-hits and
lacks the humorous contrast of the first show.
There are very few comedy chances for Field
Fisher (who could use them as an inane
chauffeur) and a great many for William
Greene (who is a matin6e god and can’t).
Alfred Frith, as a cheerful dipsomaniac,
spends the whole evening wandering about
in a dark-green suit of pyjamas cut like a
rifle-clubman’s uniform, and the d.t. joke
which the librettist invented for him is never
allowed to go home, though the knock-off
whistle should be blown after he has plodded
silently across the stage, pipe in mouth, with
all his faithful imps crowding and leaping
round him like dogs. That and Dorothy
Brunton’s five-second imitation of a puffy-
dheeked, broken-stayed matron folding her
arms are two of the brightest fragments in
the show. Maud Fane, whose robust voice
seems to have survived the winter so far,
sang clearly while most of the other princi-
pals seemed throaty. She pairs well with
Dorothy 8., looks dainty as a flirtatious
flapper, and always kindles interest in the
cream-puff proceedings. Fred Maguire duets
nervously with her as a false-alarm Irishman
of the most flagrant description. Connie
Fdiss has querulous “So Long” moments in
a bashed sort of white costume and hat, and
makes a second-act change in full view of
the audience, stepping into a crinoline while
wearing a species of silk boxing costume.
That and the lingerie-ad. glimpse given by
some changeful chorus ladies is evidently
what upset a Melbourne press critic. He
must have been fresh from reporting the
Methodist Synod. Madge Elliott, rapidly
improving as a star dancer, wears a cleverly-
designed greenery-yallery costume, and, with
Jack Hooker as the Cat, leaps and whirls
through the “Cat and Canary” episode—
music by conductor Andrew MacCunn. It’s
a good feature. The dresses range from
pretty to cheerful and on to insane, the
futurist scenery is striking, and the work of
the eight grave velvet-footed gentlemen who
constitute the Dorothy Brunton Glee Club
and silently appear from nowhere to har-
monise with their leading lady, deserve a
vote of confidence.
To-morrow evening is Sydney’s last chance
of seeing Marie Tempest and Graham
Browne share the acting honors in “The
Marriage of Kitty.” On Saturday these
two finished exponents of the art of pure
comedy turn to “Penelope.”
Through the barrenness of Sydney Town
Hall on Monday evening the Cherniavsky
brothers, long since grown out of the frilled-
shirt fronts with which they first enslaved
the Australian flapper, poured waves of still-
youthfully buoyant musical warmth ; piano,
’cello and violin blending with the sympathy
of a long chumship. The brothers have
gained in color and breadth of interpretation
since their last visit. Jan, the pianist—who
looks mox-e frail—captivated the audience
. . 1S Chopin interpretations. Leo, the
Molmist, had chosen the Ernst concerto in F
IT ‘ nllnor ’ his bow danced over the
dimculties of this work. The ’cellist plaved
with a mellowness of tone and a delicacy that
his listeners were quick to appreciate. So
amid encores and double encores the trio
renewed acquaintance with Sydney.
The Taits are still keeping the home
crooks turning to the right at Sydney Palace.
As the great heart of the public seems to
prefer “The Story of the Rosary” to “Ham-
let,” William Shakspeare has been further
postponed till next Monday evening at Syd-
ney Grand Opera House. William Sha'ks-
peare must be kept quite busy nowadays
turning in his grave.
On Saturday night there was a crowded
Sydney Town Hall to view the picture pro-
gramme provided by the Waddington man-
agement. During the interval Goossens and
his pupil Gladys Phelps sang. The lady
possesses a voice of extensive range, and
Goossens has plenty of promising raw
material to work on.
* :s *
The Sydney Tivoli ads. are crackling and
exploding like fireworks to celebrate the
arrival of Ada Reeve. Ada as an artist has
about the best claim in vaudeville to the
bombs and rockets of advertisement; but she
has filed an additional claim by campaigning
successfully for funds to keep the invaluable
Anzac Buffet going in London. Sydney will
be afforded a chance to draw its cheque-book
when she gets settled. The part of the
Tivoli bill that isn’t occupied by Ada is
covered by the Adareevian supporting stars.
Sydney movies this week :
Hoyt’s : “The Power of Decision,” the story of a
girl who took the wrong turning but knew when to
apply the brakes.
Lyceum : “The Snare,” a first-class Triangle drama
concerning the doings of twin sisters, and in whieli
some remarkable examples of dual photography are
shown; and “Teddy at the Throttle,” a clever and
hilarious dog film.
Crystal Palace and Lyric : “The Cure,” in
which Charlie Chaplin takes charge of a sobering-up
■anatorium.
** * *
“The Pink Lady,” which lasted many
weeks in Sydney, looks likely to do the same
at Melbourne Majesty’s. Compared with
recent shows of the type, it is notable for
variety of music, matter and suggestion.
Running through the proceedings is one
sustained love-yarn, flanked by broken
threads of narrative, and the broken threads
tangle the main plot oddly. Even a common
or suburban sausage is not more full of
mystery than “The Pink Lady” is full of
French complications. Persons of human
interest in the scheme of things are ex-
pected to appear, but don’t. One, for in-
“THE WHITE CHRYSANTHEMUM,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Barry Lupino dis-
guised as a Jap.
Leslie Donagliey as a
Jap “cop .”
stance, is the alleged “satyr” of the Forest
of Compifegne. Another is the daughter of
Phil Smith, whom Baroness Florence Young
comes to inspect (with her colorless son in
attendance) when the young woman has
already eloped with the mild assistant-shop-
man of P. Smith aforesaid. Another is the
long-ago sweetheart of Leslie Holland, now
a woman of 35 or so, who holds his fidelity
in thrall on the banks of the Saskatchewan
River. These people are only sung or talked
about in their persistent absence, though
they count in the story. Somebody sup-
posed to be the Saskat lady certainly appears
in a vision in the course of one of the pretti-
est musical numbers, but she never turns
up to claim Holland’s carefully-preserved
hand. Holland, in fact, is a mere occasional


sver
H E N K E S’
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely ideal tonio.
Awarded many gold medals -for purity.
gvs
"S'kx
WSMBA
%'y
SSu^TtSL
S.B.
COME UP TO %
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge.
the wonderful hinterland
.Sunshine , Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
v anil Scenic splerdogr
A Booklet telling all aboutl(
v is yours for the asking
/=?// in fhts coupon •-
SVame
' f -\ Address..
'V
/t> Mi* Director- of
Brisbane, QUEENSLAND.
-S’. .yC
7^l
TiSjjssw
■
NHH
in
4m
1
Tk “WARREGO” Shirt
is designed FOR the worker.
It is the best worker’s shirt so far produced. It will
withstand solid wear in scrub, farm, stockyard or
mine. •
The material is a strong cotton of good weight and
the patterns comprise tiny squares, giving a neat
pinhead effect. It does not easily soil. Two spacious
pockets with button flaps to prevent articles being
lost. Our own make—a great success last season.
Colors: Grey and Buff. Ready to wear. /I /
WE PAY POSTAGE. Of 0
Please state size of collar usually worn.
PEAPES & CO LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
idiot who accepts any smacks on the mouth
that come along, whereas the smaller
comedian stays in the foreground (after the
first act) as a wealthy shopkeeper with the
temDerament of a cold potato and a
strangely-earned reputation for being the
missing satyr. Phil Smith is really enveloped
in an atmosphere of domestic tragedy, only
he never notices it. Celia Ghiloni, his spouse,
craves for a satyristical rather than a cold-
potato husband. She tells the absurd little
man that if he is a satyr she will tame him,
and if he isn’t a satyr she will continue to
hate him, but her suggestion falls on stony
ground.
“THE WHITE CHRYSANTHUM." AT
MELBOURNE KING'S.
Vernon Irving as
Lieutenant Armitage.
John Beck as
Perks.
Minnie Love revels in a rose-pink outfit
and the name part —the part of the con-
ventional don’t-care actress who carries, on
with Roberts, beloved of Gladys Moncrieff,
and accounts for all the trouble. Minnie has
the charm of an individual gracefulness and
an appealing sincerity in all she does, not-
withstanding that she suffers from a natural
flatness in her clear little voice, and a ten-
dency to accentuate her facial expressions
and mouth her word . The charm stays
with her even when she perches on a lonely
little chair in the centre of the stage and
sings a mushy ragtime ballad of the “Baby
Doll” species. Miss Moncrieff warbles
charmingly as the maiden whose infatua-
tion for Roberts survives every discovery
of his giddy mendacity; but she is a rather
hard, unfeeling actress, convincing only
when she is rating her young man. Be-
sides, she stands with her feet too far apart.
Roberts lacks the attractions expected of a
young man whom all the girls are after, and
his attempts at dashing deceitfulness are
somewhat painful. Ralston is satisfactory
in the straight part of a rival suitor of the
heavy baritone persuasion, and much might
be said in favor of Clyde Cook as a detective
told off to track the mythical satyr ; also of
Celia Ghiloni, Alice Bennetto and Nellie
Payne (in small parts), Florence Young and
Phil Smith. Miss Young is great for five
minutes, when she is stating in song that
Dondidier kissed her on the cheek, and Smith
has much fat which he sometimes makes
the most of. With a little more restraint
the small, broad comedian would be always
funny. Maie Baird is a winsome bare-backed
dancer, and Ivan Caryll’s score provides
honorable employment for an efficient
orchestra and chorus, not to mention the
Nymphs of the ballet.
“Joyous Jones,” at Melbourne Princess’s,
wants larger audiences; otherwise the good
old farce carries its burden of minor musical
items with a jaunty air. Willoughby’s auda-
cious bagman travels in merriment as of
yore, and' the show provides as much laughter
to the square inch of audience as any comic
opera in the business. If there is a grow-
ing demand for limited musical comedy at
popular prices there is still a lot of room for
it to grow.
Melbourne Royal is preparing for an
Event on Saturday. Cyril Maude and co.
are to introduce “Grumpy” to this country,
and the reputation of the actor and the
play are equally up-to-date. Also it is gener-
ally admitted that an artist who could win
a reputation in aged character-acting for
such an unpromising name as Cyril Maude
has proved his family claim to valor in the
field. He deserves the V.C.
“The White Chrysanthemum,” at Mel-
bourne King’s, has been compressed and is
all the better for it. The music, too, mostly
improves on acquaintance, and the three
soloists (chosen from the chorus) who sing
before the screen are doing it with more con-
fidence than on the first night. Shades of
Night,” sung by a Miss Thorold, is as sweet
as the duet shared by Lilian Tucker and
Vernon Irving—the tall, tame, strange new-
comer with the diminutive tenor warble.
But four or five of the songs in Act Iwo
are not warbled at all. They are mostly
talked by Higginson, Daisy Revette, Fayette
Perry and John Beck in turn, and the effect
is monotonous. Nan Taylor plays a Japan-
ese lady maid, and Emily Fitzroy is the
awful Chinese cook who comes forth in the
gloaming to lead Lupino captive to his bridal
couch.
Melbourne Tivoli is recovering from the
departure of Ada Reeve and preparing for
the advent of Nellie Stewart, who will pre-
sent Act 1 of “Sweet Nell” during the week
that begins next Saturday. Ada Reeve fin-
ished with a bang last Saturday, after add-
ing another £lOOO to her Anzac fund with
a matinee show on the previous day.
The carry-on bill includes some turns
that will stay on after Nell conies to hand.
Willard and Wilson, humorists who black
their faces in the cause of art; Alf Grant,
who talks Yankee; Billy Seaton and Archie
Onri, the Wonder Boy; Daisy and Sydney
Yates and Malcolm McEachern, also others
not new to Melbourne —all these have been
doing their bit since Monday.
Two more Melbourne matters are impend-
ing for mention in this column. At the
Athenaeum Hall the signboard announces
Gerald Massey for Saturday and thereafter,
and the Cherniavskys are coming to Taits’
Auditorium next week.
The Melba screen in Melbourne this week
is eloquent with the emotions of Valeska
Suratt in five rounds of trouble entitled
“The Straight Way.” Valeska follows the
Narrow Track with great enthusiasm, and
blazes her trail with a series of resplendent
fashion-plate effects. “Aladdin from Broad-
way,” a World film-subject with a moral like
a clout in the dark, is the Melba’s second
course promised for to-night. The Britannia
next door has Dorothy Dalton and W. S. Hart
in their latest vanities, “Back of the Man”
and “The Square Deal Man.”
“The Witching Hour,” Hoyt’s latest pic-
ture-vehicle in Melbourne, affords students
of the occult a mental joy-ride, while giving
ordinary citizens any number of thrills. Fea-
tures of the excitement are a cat’s-eye scarf-
pin of mysterious power, and a gaudy swin-
dler who makes a successful side-line of
hypnotic suggestion. Hoyt’s followers are
also pursuing “The Child of Destiny,” who
leaves father and farm for roof-gardens and
rou6s. In this example Irene Fenwick is the
fresh young flower doomed to waste its
sweetness on cabaret air.
The Fullers, who have just been to
Adelaide consulting about the future of their
theatres there, found last week the advan-
tage of having two, as they could simply
move the whole variety show into the little
King’s while the Bunyip panto, held the
Majestic. A praiseworthy effort, this Aus-
tralian production, with “Stiffy” Phillips
and the Jew-impersonator and Miss Mer-
ritt’s female Dame all working just a little
too hard to be funny. The singing and the
variety turns are really good. There is big
business doing, twice every day. The Royal
had another crowded week, with quick
changes. Memories of the perversely mourn-
ful Carrie Moore and of the hard, brilliant
Florence Young as the Merry Widow made
Minnie Love’s human and alluring render-
ing specially welcome; and Leslie Holland,
though without much singing voice, had a
real chance as Danilo. But what poor stuff
the words of the songs are in this play! The
eo. raced through “Geisha” and “Arcadians”
(Holland a brillia'nt Peter Doody). and
ended—a midnight-special waiting at the
theatre backdoor —with a rollicking and free-
gagging revival of old “Floradora.” Phil
Smith did good work all through the season,
and coming juniors are Nellie Payne, Maie
Baird, Cyril Richards and Victor Odgers,
who needs to let himself go.
The S. M. Herald got a little of what it
deserved from the P.L.L. Conference in Syd-
ney. When the red flag was hoisted in
Russia the Herald “rejoiced over the revo-
lution” ; now the local red-flaggers take the
dear old lady by the arm and call her sister.
The Herald’s outburst of appro /al of revo-
lution was one result of the stupid habit the
Censorship got the press into of hailing
everything that happens as necessarily favor-
able to the Allies. The press was not to alarm
the people. That meant you must not tell them
that something has just happened which will
make it necessary for them to do a great
deal more than they have done hitherto if
they want to escape a licking. So the great
deal more has been left undone until a new
story has been told months afterwards. And
that has meant a protracted war and
avoidable slaughter.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Judge Pickburn, who died the other day,
•wore a wig for the first time 20-odd years
ago in Sydney, on the stage of what is now
the Little Theatre, then the Royal Standard.
Pickburn was in those days an active mem-
ber of the long-defunct Dramatic Society at
Sydney Uni. —-“The S.U.D.S.’’ —which had
Gregan McMahon, then ah undegrad., as its
secretary, and old-time mummer Charley
Burford as stage-manager and coach. He
played in most of the society’s efforts
between 1893 and 1897, about his best part
being Puff in Sheridan’s “Critic,” produced
in 1895. Later in the same year he appeared
in this part at a charity matinee in the
Lyceum. With poet Le Gay Brereton as
partner, Pickburn prepared for the S.U.D.S.
a comedy based on Shakspeare’s “Henry
1V.,” “Henry V.” and “Merry Wives of
Windsor,” in which he was to play Falstaff;
but the production fell through, as none of
the female talent at the ’Varsity would take
on the over-realistic part of Doll Tearsheet
in Pickburn’s acting version.
“Ancient Prompter”: Cyril Maude was
the original Little Minister when Barrie’s
Scawtch play was produced in England.
Two other mummers well known to Austra-
lian audiences were in the London cast.
There are Eardley Turner, at present taking
a part in “A Little Bit of Fluff,” and Clar-
ence Blakiston, who is the King Charles in
the Nellie Stewart revival of “Sweet Nell
of Old Drury.”
LOUISE LOVELY-CARBASSE and her
husband, WILTON WELCH—two Aus-
tralians who are doing well in films —
watching the film tragedians and film
comedians at a baseball game at Los
Angeles in aid of the American Red
Cross.
“Cockaigne”: Cyril Maude, son of Cap-
tain and the Hon. Mrs. Maude, was born in
’62. He is a relative of General Maude, at
present in Mesopotamia, or thereabouts.
Cyril studied under our friend Cartwright
and the veteran Miss Le Thiere, the original
old Marquise in “Caste.” Looking for
health, he went to Canada, and at Denver,
Colorado, he made his first appearance with
Bandmann’s company as the Servant in
“East Lynne.” Back to London, he made
the best of a good chance as Pilkie, in “The
Great Divorce Case,” played at the Cri-
terion, 1886. Then he made a hit as Cayley
Drummle, in “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray.”
But his best mumming was at the Hay-
market (1896-1905), in “Under the Red
Robe,” “Little Minister,” Hardcastle, Acres,
Sir P. Teazle, “The Second in Command,”
Lord Ogleby in “Clandestine Marriage” and,
markedly, in “Beauty and the Barge.” He
was Blount, in “Money,” at Drury Lane,
on a command night before King George and
his old pal the Kaiser.
Dorothy Brunton’s special “Canary Cot-
tage” dresses lost their way between Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and the Australian star
had to get through the first two perform-
ances of the Sydney season in scratch cos-
tumes out of the J.C.W. wardrobe. This is
a more serious matter than most washer-
women might think. The everyday world
hangs dresses on lines, but the musical-
comedy actress hangs lines on dresses.
Irma Caron tamed the savage breast of
Port Darwin at a concert she gave at the
Town Hall there while passing through on
her way to Java. The white Australians, -
including a Government House party, booked
up solidly, and the hind part of the hall
was strained to bursting point with a cosmo-
politan congregation of Greeks, Russians,
Filipinos, Malays, Chinese, abos., mixtures
and a few wild Australians. The manage-
ment was duly advised beforehand that the
artists would be counted out and told to get
work if they did not produce the goods ad-
vertised. So the versatile little daughter of
the late Leon Caron spoke sweetly and in-
troduced her numbers; and the Habanera
from “Carmen” and the “Shadow Song,”
with popular ballads and comic-opera selec-
tions in character as encores, did the trick.
The wild bullock-slayers from Vesteys’ works
even yelled for more.
An Australian writing from Noo Yark
reports that tenor Corona (once our own
Hal Cohen) struck the city in April, but did
not set fire to Broadway. Hal probably lives
too well now that he is the singing husband
of a wealthy widow. He always admired his
dinner.
“Props” : A hoodoo in theatrical parlance
is an understudy who brings bad luck to the
principal and good luck to herself or him-
self. Dorothy Brunton is, or was, a hoo-
doo, because so many of her advances were
made as understudy. One English actress
said of her: “No, I won’t have that hoodoo
for understudy.” Dorothy’s first big chance
was when Florrie Young had an unex-
pected hoarseness. When the little girl
went on there were shouts for Florrie; but
Dorothy got ’em. Frank Thornton used to
moan because he was not a hoodoo. At the
Savoy he understudied Grossmith in
“lolanthe.” He was on deck for 300 nights
and got no show. One morning Thornton
said to Grossmith, “You’re not looking well,
George. Allow me to recommend a little
pill.” George: “No, thankye, Frank, I
don’t take any of your pills.”
“Stargazer” : The numerous girls in “The
White Chrysanthemum” are all dressed from
a little above the head to well below the heel
in ugly black rugs and uglier Jap costumes,
and throughout not one inch of shin is visi-
ble. If the favor of the Society for the Pre-
vention of Unseemly Publicity Among Fatted
Calves is sufficient to make a show success-
ful, J. and N. Tait’s latest will have an
enormous Presbyterian following. But I
have discovered that, after all, my real objec-
tion to this class of entertainment does not
spring from the prominence usually given to
exquisite contours. I find that without them
such shows have nothing left to live for.
“Barnstormer”: Commodore Tyrwhitt
(pronounced “Tirritt”), who is reported as
having had another successful scrap with the
salted Huns, is the husband of Evie Greene,
who was the original “Country Girl” at
Daly’s Theatre in the beginning of this cen-
tury. She was, probably, the most fascinat-
ing of all the singers of “My Little Grey
Home in the West.”
“Hussar”: It was Cyril Maude’s daughter
Pamela whose married life was so sadly
shortened last year. She married Major
William Congreve, D. 5.0., M.C., and three
weeks later was a widow. Congreve was
awarded a posthumous V.C. “for most con-
spicuous bravery during a period of 14 days
preceding his death in action.” He had been
married only about a week when he returned
to the Front to die.
(Continued on page 26.)
“ORANGE, APPLE, LEMONADE!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Horange, happle, lemonade I
Waltzin’ on their tender toes
Up and down the crowded rows
Witli me bloomin’ stock-in-trade.
B’naner, orange, gingerbeer!
Don't want peanuts? Don’t want gripe'
Don’t want pears or lollies ? Cripes 1
What is your sort doin’ here?
B’naner, orange, gingerbeer!
Horange, happle, gingerhale!
Whato, Nosey, here’s the tack-
Strawb’ry hices, ’arf a zac.
Gawd, you’re lucky out o’ gaol!
Peanut, peanut, penny bag.
Here y’ar, ’Enr.v, back yer truck—-
Buy Her Stockin’s one fer luck.
Strewth! there goes the bleedin’ rag—
Peanut, peanut, penny bag.
B’naner, orange, gingerbeer!
(Can’t yer move yer bloomin feet?)
Strewth ’n’ all, what do you eatf
(Mind yer fav’rites, shift yer ear.)
Orange, happle, lemonade.
Pigswill play, ’n’ rotten plot,
Arf the actors should be shot.
On’y blocks a feller’s trade—
Orange, happle, lemonade!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
NATURE’S WILD APPLAUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The holiday actor stood at gaze;
The water fell in a hundred ways;
It dropped straight down from the rocky height,
It leapt and floated in spray-clouds bright;
A rainbow hung in the foam-cooled air
And bubbles went sailing everywhere.
“No, not bad falls,” the old guide said.
The actor nodded his shaggy head.
He spoke no word on the river’s brink ;
The guide was soulless and fond of drink,
And roaring water was less to him
Than water jugged in a bar-room dim
And mixed with spirits. He sat and smoked
While the musing actor, posed and cloaked,
Listened and breathed to the river sands:
“Just like the crash of ten thousand hands!”
N.S.W.
KODAK.


USHERS
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
Amcricti or the Continent. Hath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You’re child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act naturally
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember,
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals California Syrup of Figs
“Califig”—for children's ills; give a tea-
spoonful, and in a few hours all the waste
matter, sour bile and fermenting food clogged
in the bowels pass out of the system, and
you have a healthy and playful child again.
All children love this harmless, delicious
fruit laxative, and it never fails to effect a
good “inside cleansing.” Directions for
babies, children of all ages and grown-ups
are plainly on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “Califig”—California Syrup of
Figs—then look and see that it is made by
the California Fig Syrup Company. Refuse
substitutes. All chemists sell “Califig”—
California Syrup of Figs—in bottles of two
sizes, Is. ljd. and Is. 9d. [4
Man—the Britisher especially
—is a clean animal. He de-
lights in his bath, his spruce
appearance, and his every
morning shave. Millions of
his race have adopted the
NO STROPPING NO HONINg
for keeping up that tradition
of spruceness for which he is
famed. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hoffnuug & Co., Ltd., Put Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, E g.
WORLD OVfcfc.
KNOWN THfc
Society
THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF
WOMAN.
SHE: “I would love to be able to swim.”
HE : “Well, it’s good practice for a woman.”
SHE : “In what way?”
HE: “It teaches her to keep her mouth shut.”
“H. 0.”: On returning home the other even-
ing I was handed a crumpled piece of green
paper that looked as though it might be the
remains of a packet of pins. I was told it
had been left by a telegraph boy. Had it
been placed on my table and blown on to the
floor it would have been thrown into the
wastepaper-basket. I guessed that it was
one of Webster’s new envelopeless telegrams,
and fell to pondering how it could be opened
without inflicting fatal injuries on the
message. Obviously it could
not be torn open in a casual
way. I put it on the table and
stood off and examined it from
various angles, but the job of
getting at its innards looked
impossible. After fooling about
with a paper-knife, a cork-
screw and a cigar-cutter, I
called in the wife. She suggested
a tin-opener, but as no tin-
opener can ever be found when
wanted, neither of us took the
suggestion seriously. The wife
got to work with a hairpin,
with which, as a rule, she can
open anything from a bottle of
stout to a child’s money-box,
but Webster's puzzlegram was
too much for her. I did not
attempt anything with the axe,
as ours is the bluntest in Mel-
bourne, if not in Australia;
but I tried dashing the telegram
on to the stone floor of the scul-
lery in the hope that it would
fly open. Next day I took the
thing to a friend in the Crim-
inal Investigation Branch, who
attacked it with a jemmy. After
10 minutes’ work he managed
to prise it open and handed
it to me in a horribly mutilated state. I
suppose one should not complain, if this, is
Webster’s way of effecting economy and win-
ning the war; but at least I think a red
flag should be attached to each message, so
that it will not be thrown away in mistake
for a piece torn off a penny prize-packet.
* * * *
From the architects :
You take up the cudgels (B. 31/5/’l7) against
the Building Committee of the Catholic College Uni-
versity of Melbourne for selecting so-called Japanese
or Manchurian oak instead of native woods for in-
terior fittings and furniture in that building.
The statements made by Mr. Trapp and others may
be true; but, if so, why did they not tender for
the supply of the material when tenders were adver-
tised for in the open market, and prove their truth?
Tenders were called for not only in one oak but in
Australian timbers. The result was that 18 firms
tendered in oak and only six in Australian woods.
These six-tenders ranged from £350 to £lOOO higher
in Mr. Trapp’s “cheaper” Queensland maple than in
the oak. The committee in charge wanted to use
the Australian woods and the architects made every
effort to obtain favorable tenders, but you can
imagine the cry that would arise from those whose
money is being spent if they should hear that the
committee was spending hundreds of pounds unneces-
sarily.
The furniture, by the way, is all of built-up veneer,
most of the cost of which is represented in labor,
and the mueh-talked-of “imported material” repre-
sents in prime cost perhaps 5 per cent, of the total.
• * * *
Sydney Supreme Court archives entomb
some interesting documents. One cobwebby
screed is the Precept, dated February 10,
1.788, convening Australia’s first Criminal
Court, consisting of the Judge Advocate and
six other members, The Court’s ’prentice
job was to try a desperate character who
was charged with “abusing the sentry and
other soldiers on guard; abusing a drum-
major of marines and striking the drum with
a cooper’s adze.” The Court convicted the
linguist and ordered him “one hundred and
fifty lashes on the bare back with the cat o’
nine tails.”
* * * *
A delightful old English legal fiction has
been dropped, after formal consideration, by
the S. Aus. Supreme Court.
It was that misconduct of Mrs.
A. with Mr. 8., though ad-
mitted by her, is not proof of
misconduct by him with her.
It sounds idiotic; but it has
persisted for centuries. Prob-
ably it began with a married
woman’s confession, which can
be accepted as fatal to her,
but needs proof before being
conclusive against him. In
the present case, the Court"
said the cp-re. had had notice
to appear and had stayed
away; so he was guilty also
for costs-paying purposes,
at any rate.
From Sydney Stjn :
D. McColl, of Bellata, whilst branding colts, was
kicked on the forehead by one of the animals. He
\yas severely injured. The colt broke its leg.
That ought to teaph ’epi tp be careful where
they kick a man.
The coastal town of Deal (Eng.) has a
front seat at this war. When ships were
pounding Ostend last week the vibration of
the guns made the Deal knockers play an
incessant rat-tat-tot up and down the stieets.
VALVE RECEIVED.
BIG SISTER: “ You're a bad little girl!
Yesterday I gave you a penny for being
good , and to-day you're as bad as you
can be.”
THE HOLY TERROR: “Yes, but you had your
penn'orth yesterday."
A town where war literally knocks at the
door—what an ideal place for a P.L.L. Con-
ference !
* * * *
“Ben Netto” : The average returned Anzac
can settle down in civil life all right if he
is allowed to. But here’s what happens.
Vernon de Smythe, comfortably embedded in
a club armchair, with his
cigar describing circles in the
air, solemnly tells Crecy de
Bones, his clubmate, that one
of his clerks finds it impossi-
ble to reconcile himself to
office life again. “And it’s)
not that the work’s monot-
onous ; as a matter of fact,
I’ve pushed him right round
the office.” And that’s the
whole trouble. The experi-
ences of my three returned
cobbers, and my own, bear
this contention out. Since
we resumed our civil duties
we have been treated like so
many irresponsible school-
boys. Our bosses won't re-
gard us as unchanged—we
are, for some reason or
Other, supposed to have been
turned into freaks.
•* *
“Hussar”: “The Old Sol-
dier” (B. 10/5/T7) remarks
that in modern war ele-
phants have to be kept well
to the rear. I was in Itawal
Pindi in the early ’9o’s, when
a heavy gun-team of ele-
phants got frightened at the
“furious joy”—it was the
Queen’s Birt h d a y—and
charged the cavalry. Horses
hate Jumbo, and the whole
line scattered ingloriously.
Elephant gun-teams are not
used now.
Tasmania is in a weird tangle. A number
of State members, seeing a chance of
six hundred a year instead of two
hundred, and thinking that assent
would be given to the Electoral Amend-
ment Bill passed last session (this
provided that should they be unsuccessful in
their Federal enterprise they would auto-
matically return to their State seats), sent in
their resignations to the Governor. The
Federal Parliament had already passed and
received assent to a measure declaring that
before the nomination of a State legislator
could be entertained by a Federal Returning
Officer, the candidate must resign his seat.
So the Speck’s State Parliament really asked
the King to climb over the barrier which the
Commonwealth Parliament had got him to
place in the path of State member's’ ambi-
tions. As might have been expected, the
State Parliament’s steep request has been
hung up, although feverish cables have been
desoatched to speed it on its course. The
consequence is a by-election in Denison,
Bass and Darwin (two members). Add the
vacancy in Franklin caused by the Earle
“elevation,” the vacancy in Denison through
the death of W. 11. Burgess, and the
Federal vacancy through the death of
Howroyd after his victory over King
O'Malley, and it looks as though at least
six by-elections will have to be held in little
Tasmania during the next two months.
An interesting case of cruelty to animals
was proved against the Collingwood (Melb.)
Bench the other day. A publican charged
with selling a bottle of beer on Sunday
morning stated that he really gave the medi-
cinal mixture to a friend who wanted it for
a sick horse. The patient in this case was
only one of many. Other horses are apt
to be taken bad on Sunday morning of com-
plaints which are only curable by beer. The
Bench practically condemned these wretched
animals to suffer by lining the publican £5.
Henceforth Melbourne bungs in general wili
refuse succor to sick horses during pro-
hibited hours. Many a good steed will have
’ to writhe in pain for want of the only lotion
that gives it relief. But the inhumanity
of magistrates is proverbial.
* * * •
“L’Fou”: “Adelaide’s” par. (B. 31/5/T7)
about invalids and their handicapped chil-
dren points to a defect in our national ser-
vices. The ideal baby clinics, besides secur-
ing the child’s best development both before
and after birth, would discreetly advise on
the best ways of preventing the unwanted
babe’s conception in those unfortunate cases
where it hadn’t a hope of health or decent
life. Holland has such clinics, and the low-
est death-rate in the world. The distribut-
ing of such information is permitted in
France and Germany, but these countries
have not the organised clinics, and that is a
grave defect, because the right people don’t
get the instruction. It is surely worth while
aiming to prevent the national incubus of
piteous defectives.
* * * *
“Hussar” : I engineered two race-meetings
at Jewburg during the S’African war, in
July and August, 1900. On one occasion a
nervous General sent an A.D.C. to me say-
ing that all officers were to go armed to the
meeting, as Boers were known to be in the
ON THE JOB.
“Bay, Boss, the blokes in my tent tell me
I can put in for a commission
“So you can,”
“Well, I don't want to be too strong —do you
think they would stand two and a half
per cent?”
neighborhood. I told the A.D.C. I had
something much better than a sword or a
revolver for an occasion like that. He
asked me innocently what that was, and I
told him —“A fast pony.” As a matter of
fact heaps of the Boers came as peaceful
spectators to the meetings. Yes, that war
was a bit different.
THE HARD WORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The keen recruiting-sergeant came and tackled
Harold Jones,
And put the acid on him. as in honey-laden tones
He told a moving story,
Full of glamor and of glory,
And mentioned that no decent bloke could possibly
say “No!”
Till Harold murmured fervently: “I’m simply mad
to go!
‘“l’m twenty-five. I’ve got no wife. I’m physically
fit.
I’m satisfied it’s up to me to do me bloomin’ bit! ”
The sergeant interjected :
“All! It’s just as I expected ;
AVe’U waltz along at once, my lad, and visit the
M. 0.!”
But Harold sheepishly demurred —“My girl won’t let
me go!”
“Won’t let you go!” The sergeant smiled a com-
prehending smile,
And twirled his cane, and clicked his heels, in most
impressive style.
“There s no girl I’m afraid of —
I’ll show you what I’m made of” —
Ilis eyebrows bristled fiercely, and his lip began to
curl,
As sternly he commanded: “Introduce me to your
girl!”
Then Harold hopefully complied. The sergeant made
his bow,
And set forth every argument, the wherefore and
the how;
He wheedled, and he pleaded,
He cajoled, and he succeeded
When he stated his conviction that a hero Jones
would be,
With his picture in the papers, and a double-sized
V.C.
Here Jones’s girl began to sniff, and sob, and wring
her hands,
Which signs of full surrender every soldier under-
stands.
“I know,” she wailed, “his duty
Is to fight for home and beauty”
(She simpered as she added: “No one ever called
me plain!”)
“I’ll let him go this once; but, sergeant, never ask
again!”
The sympathetic sergeant strove to soothe her maiden
fears;
He gently patted both her hands, and wiped away
her tears.
He said, “There, there!” and “Dearie!”
And assumed a manner cheery,
And, being a good soldier, placed his arm around
her waist
While he tenderly suggested that young Jones had
perfect taste.
“There, now!” he said, “you’ve simmered down, I
hate to cause you pain,
But tell me what you meant just now by ‘Never ask
again’ ?”
Said she: “I felt downhearted,
For, since first the trouble started,
I’ve .sent away as volunteers eight bonzer boys of
mine;
I’m scared of double figures, and poor Harold’s
number nine !”
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


By Special Appointment to His Excellency Lord Islington, ex-Governor of New Zealand
Nurse Ellen Everett, Medical and Electrical Masseuse, writes her opinion to Clements Tonic:—
Wellington Electrical and Medical Institute,
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., Altken Street ' Welhn d ton ' Ist Ma D f 9D-
“As a Specialist in Neurasthenia and Nerve Work /find Clements Tonic
one ofi my best nerve foods to recommend to my patients T
Yours truly ,
(Nurse)
For the relief of Indigestion, Loss of Sleep, Anaemia, Constipation, Sick headache, Brain-fag and Debility get it to-day.
All Chemists and Stores sell it throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
Australia’s white-plumed egrets are still
being slaughtered without mercy, and under
the most savage conditions, to provide the
less-civilised Australian woman with part
of her personal decoration. Of late little
has been hoard of this horrible business, the
birds being unable to protest, and most
people opposed to the practice having a diffi-
culty in making their voices heard. Up in
tile birds’ Belgium, however, the frightful-
ness continues unabated ; and every day brings
nearer the moment when there will be noth-
ing left of the white-plumed egret but a few
bald nestlings dying of cold and starvation.
The voice of the occasional agitator was
heard the other day in Melbourne, w'hen
Charles French, State entomologist, got off
a few biting remarks at a gathering of the
Sweet Pea- Society, during a lecturette on
insect pests and pest-killing birds, of which
the plume-provider is one. The Sweet
Peaple applauded loudly and groaned bit-
terly in the right places; but the men who
are in a position to do the drastic thing
were of course engaged on matters of State
elsewhere —theatre-going, or playing a hun-
dred up, or breaking in a new box of cigars.
* * * *
From the report of a military court-
martial :—•
Captain-Surgeon G. M. Teague, of the Third Aus-
tralian Military Hospital, describing the conduct of
accused, said that accused was, in a military sense,
sober.
But that leaves us guessing. How much
less sober than a Judge does a General have
to be before he becomes drunk? And are a
General and a Corporal equally sober if they
are equally drunk ; or if one is more sober
than the other though they are equally
drunk, which is it?
* * * *
“Red Tape” : When Premier Holman de-
parted for Europe to see what W. M.
Hughes, farmer Massey (M.L.) and lou
Ward had left undone in order to win the
war, a proposal to appoint a Commission to
consider the grievances of N. S. Wales pub-
lic servants was gone into by Acting-Premier
Fuller. So far, he doesn’t seem to have
made any headway. At present we have
(1) a Public Service Board of three, which
delegates its powers to (2) a Departmental
Board of three, which does ditto to (3) a
special committee of four, which usually gets
lost. When No. 3 does report to No. 2 the
latter objects to the finding; and when No. .2
is satisfied, No. 1 snorts. To cure this it is
proposed to appoint one man to take the
place of the whole outfit. Might be a good
plan, but only if the commissioner were under
a heavy penalty not to delegate his powers
to anybody. I propose that Dick Meagher
get the job. It must be fully a week since he
was appointed to anything.
A KNOWING OLD BIRD.
“How do you manage to keep so well?"
“I get more rice than I can eat by keeping
my eye on the wedding announcements!"
“Nuki”: The Maoriland Military Appeal
Board was inquiring into the case of a youth
who asserted that he was indispensable to
his employer. “But if you went,” said a
member of the Board, “I suppose the busi-
ness would go on without you?” “I suppose
it would,’’ admitted the appellant. “But if
I stayed the war would go on without me,
too !”
THE RETORT DISCOURTEOUS.
WIFE: “ There were plenty of other men who wanted to many me."
THE BRUTE: "Yes, and not one of the ungrateful hounds has been round to even so much
as thank me."
“Corio” : The s.s. Rosedale is said to have
been sighted lately, a submerged derelict, off
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.). Considering her
cargo this isn’t impossible. Five years ago,
with Richmond River pine in her hold, the
low-powered coasting-vessel left port and
never returned. She had an evil notoriety
for “barging” in the seas, and it is most
likely that in a storm she dipped a bit more
than usual in a trough. A similar disappear-
ance is of more recent date. The clipper
Candidate, engaged in the Sydney-Laurieton
timber ■ trade, left the latter port during a
southerly buster. That was the end of her.
“Foundered with all hands,” was the Navi-
gation Department’s report. Formerly, while
in the Port Macquarie service, she over-
turned at the harbor entrance, drowning all
but one of her crew. If I must keep at sea,
Heaven send me something besides a timber-
carrier to bucket in !
“Centre” : The old voluntary
system floats toward the tomb
on floods of amateur oratory.
Most returned-soldier re-
cruiters orate about war as if
it was blood and agony all
the time. Yet even this war
isn’t all tragedy. Mixed up
with the discomforts and dan-
gers there is good comrade-
ship and adventure, travel,
freedom from many small
familiar worries, and good
money to save. But not one
speaker in 10 remembers to
put it like that when he gets
his boots above the crowd.
He’d get it out in conversa-
tion, but never when he’s
orating—it’s all death and
glory then. They don’t know
their job like the old London
recruiting-sergeants who used,
to tell the wavering down-
and-out about the joys of the
King’s service. Those chaps
cut the melodrama and got the men.
* * * *
“8.A.”: For many years the Argentine
Army was run on French lines, from in-
structors to uniforms and equipment; but
about a decade ago Hun agents got in such
good work among the military “heads” that
French influence was cut out and the
pickelhaube and goose-step became the vogue.
So impressed were the political and military
bosses with the superiority of Hun Kultur
that army officers were imported and well
paid on a gold basis, which caused much
heartburning among those who were still
paid on the old paper basis. French continued
to be taught in the National Schools, but
German was introduced as an optional study
as against English. In fact, German methods
and ideas ruled the roost. But the Beast
having shown his cloven hoof, word has now
gone forth that on the expiration of existing
contracts no more Huns need apply. Inci-
dentally, the newspaper which announced
this decision, commenting on the fall of
Bagdad, said: “At last the glorious flag of
Grand Albion floats over the tomb of Zobeida
and the city of Haroun-al-Raschid and the
Thousand-and-one Nights, thus definitely
frustrating German ambitions in Asia.”
# * * *
So-called voluntaryism is developing a
military caste all right; and that is the very
thing the anti-militarists say they want to
avoid. Under the voluntary system the sol-
dier naturally, and to a great extent prop-
erly, thinks himself a cut above those who
stay at home s and therefore entitled to
special attention; wherefore the Returned
Soldiers’ League is running a Parliamentary
candidate for a by-election in Tasmania on
this platform:—
(1) The cultivation of Australian loyalty.
(2) Direct representation of soldiers and their
dependents.
(3) The maintenance of good government.
Nos. 1 and 3 are the vaguest generalities, to
which all the world says “Hear, hear” ; the
only plank that means anything at all is
No. 2, and the object of that is to float sol-
diers off into a class apart. If they manage
it the voluntary system, which allows some
men to do their citizen duty and others to
shirk it, will be entirely responsible.
Love laughs at gunsmiths, too. A rash
young Strephon of 19, who had poured lead
at his Phyllis in a moment of jealousy,
arrived in the dock at Darlinghurst last week
to stand his trial on a charge of shooting
with intent to murder. The solemn pre-
liminaries having been gone through, Phyllis
tripped into the box to coyly admit that she
and the accused were now one, and she
didn’t want to give evidence against her
husband. Then the jury said “Not guilty”
with orange-blossom trimmings, and Strephon
began his life-sentence.
Anyone believe in omens? England, a
seaman, was found dead at the foot of some
steps in Napoleon-street, Sydney, last week.
Alleged to have been fighting.
“Ilaberdash”: Two years ago, when we
asked what we could do towards winning the
war, Lloyd George told us : “Leave our manu-
facturers free; attend to your own require-
ments.” We have talked oceans of blither
since then about winning the war; but we
so spurned the help that we were told we
could give that to-day the intermittent mails
from England come in loaded with type-
written apologies from manufacturers who
cannot fill Australian orders. A Hudders-
field firm adds to its apologies the informa-
tion that the looms not busy on British khaki
are going at full speed to clothe the Bel-
gian army. Also : “Prices are still on the up-
grade, and cloths are all on the dearer side.”
And such cloths! If a man were to come
to me now and ask me for one of my old
suits I wouldn’t give it to him. I’d buy the
beggar a new one and get an old one
cleaned for myself. It is some small satis-
faction to know that we are being thus made,
to pay for being mere hot-air patriots.
* * * *
Lamanoff, the youthful chemistry student:
who led the revolt against the rocky Gov-
ernment at Kronstadt, the island seat of
the Russian Admiralty, “promised the Ger-
mans a surprise if they dared to attack
the forts of Kronstadt.” Presumably the
Germans will not attack the forts, seeing
NO CLOUD IN THE SKY.
REBECCA : “ Ikey, Ikey, doan't make so much
noise!"
IKEY : “ But, mine tear, I hafen't enjoyed
mineself so much effer."
REBECCA: “Yes, Ikey; but der beoples vill
know ve didn't haf to pay for our
tickets."
that a state of revolution within a revolution
ought to suit them nicely. They will leave
Lamanoff to pi'each his gospel of Russian dis-
ruption if he can ; and when Russia is quite
persuaded that disunion is strength the Ger-
mans will walk around and % take, control.
Just at present what Russia is suffering
from isn’t so much a revolution as a drunken
spree. Deprived of their vodka the peasant
and workman are getting gloriously drunk
on something else. Man is a queer animal
who must have an occasional drunk on some-
thing.
MY GEOLOGICAL GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At Yarraville (Vic.) Milestone is being turned
by the ton into fleecy wool.”
Her dress was made of bluestone and she wore a
granite hat;
A muff of old red sandstone hid her hands so white
and fat;
A fichu made of marble gave the final little flick.
She’d dressed herself so cheaply—she was a little
brick.
N.S.W.
HERBERT STONEBROKE.
OUR DAY FOR BEING OBLIGING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What Russia needs ia a man.” — W. M. Hughes.
What do you lack ? Take your pick of the stock!
We import as well as produce them;
We’ll supply seriatim, or furnish en bloc,
To anyone caring to use them;
Single shades, or all-colors, and guaranteed fast,
Dense-textured, and proof from bacilli.
Oh, we don’t care a cuss if your fancy is cast
For Joseph, or Alec, or Billy.
Come, ere we repent (it’s our generous day!),
Choose what you fancy—and take them away!
VICTORIA.
BASH.
OMENS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The German press predicts heavy fighting on the
Western Front.”— Cable.
We guess it when we see across the sky
Swift aeroplanes come racing down the wind,
Smashing our own in places blue and high
To keep our guns behind the trenches blind.
Yes, with these airy signs in constant sight,
We more than fancy there will be a fight.
We prophesy a scrap will soon take place
When night and day a wall of flying steel
Tears with great wounds the broad earth’s bleeding
face,
And the long thunder echoes peal on peal;
When our deep warrens tremble with affiright
We skilfully prognosticate a fight.
When all the hells are rnet in every place
And every face is blenched with utter fear,
When not a shred of guarding wire we trace
And none can re-enforce us from the rear,
Then are we sure as day will follow night
That after such a lull there'H come a fight.
We are prepared to lay large odds on this
When we are fairly licked before we start,
Nervously shrinking from the fuse’s hiss,
Bombed, scared and battered out of hope and heart,
Then our prophetic spirits soar in flight;
We wire Berlin about a coming fight.
N.S.W.
FRITZ VON FUNK.


THE QUESTION.
FRANCE: “Are you going to play soldiers or turn dog? What about it?”
THE OTHERS: “Yes, what about it?”


lN»C_o 600
EX pend 1 tore
£6OO
MOTHER : " From this on we must economise strictly
You will, of course, begin by giving up cigars.”
FATHER : "Here, gimme a pipe jind a pound of tobacco,
and a tobacco-jar, and—and all the rest of it.”
, FATHER (who now carries his lunch to the city
daily): "Hang it all, a man must keep his
strength up.”
FATHER (reduced to the
economy of wearing
old clothes): " Any-
way, this new over-
coat will hide them.”
FATHER (after a week’s economic gardening): " Rheu-
matics, doctors’ bills, physic, two weeks’ loss of
time—Phew! ”
FATHER (losing steadily, as usual): " Oh, well, if a man
gives up theatres he must have some amusement.”
YEA.r? OF WAi?
Economy
I NlCOrvif £ Goo
Expend I tore
/~7 oo
MOTHER (to the girls): "After all this strict economy I
think we well deserve these furs.”
And still, somehow, it doesn't seem to work out right.
THE THRIFT CAMPAIGN.


COUGHS ARE DANGEROUS.
USE TAR AND SUGAR TO GET QUICK
RELIEF.
Coughs and colds are dangerous because,
if neglected, they so frequently lead to more
serious complaints. Pneumonia, bronchitis
and lung trouble would be almost unknown
if coughs and colds were taken in hand in
time. To be sure of getting quick relief and
to prevent danger of your cough becoming
deep-seated you should always keep on hand
a supply of bitrate of tar cough syrup,
which can easily be made at home at a small
cost by dissolving half a pound of sugar in
half a pint of hot water and then adding
2oz. of bitrate of tar. Stir thoroughly, pour
into a pint bottle, and when cool it is ready
for use. One or two teaspoonfuls of this
simple, inexpensive, home-made cough syrup
taken every hour or two will quickly relieve
a bad cough or cold, loosen up. the phlegm
and clear out the head in the most surprising-
manner. Tickling throat coughs may be
stopped by slowly dissolving in the mouth a
lump of sugar on which you have first put
15 to 20 drops of bitrate of tar. Be sure to
ask your chemist for the bitrate of tar, as
this is the only form containing the valu-
able remedial agents found in the pine and
guaiacol, and is also very pleasant to the
taste. — Advt.
/
the
'M99*
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
arc buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
V-Oaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
LC-WIS&WhITTY
my w+r
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY.
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRING
Judge Pickburn, of the N. S. Wales In-
dustrial Court, who went out to haemorrhage
of the brain this week, was only 46 —a mere
youth in this State of old Judges. A day or
so before the blow fell he was hearing the
claims of the ladies who make frills and
flounces, when a witness said, regarding the
fixing of prices. “And then I have to see
Mr. Bussle.” “Bussle!” exclaimed I’iekburn.
“What an appropriate name!” Pickburn
was home-grown, the son of a Sydney doctor,
and had been wearing the Hush of ill-health
ter a year past.
A QUESTION OF MANNER.
SATIRICAL LANDLADY: “ Here, leave off your
Art, and tell me, if you can, 'when yon
arc going to settle up my account?”
THE ARTIST: “ Madame, I cannot. I do not
belong to the Futurist School.”
In the middle ’9o’s, when Melbourne was
strewn with the wreckage of banks and build-
ing societies, a dark, determined young man
with a square jaw and a gift for figures arose
at one meeting that was getting nowhere and
took charge. He developed Ms gift of taking
charge and became Premier Watt. Last
month, as Federal Minister for Works, he
had a long look at Canberra, and where the
expensive national experiment didn’t remind
him particularly of the building society he
dragged together it reminded him of the
whole lot generally.
Bigjohn Forrest drops a note to lay out an
old story that was repeated in a recent
Bulletin :
The statement that I was over the Coolgardie
goldfields and passed Bayley's Reward without finding
it has often been made, but it is altogether incorrect.
I was never within 200 miles of Coolgardie before
Bavley discovered the Baylev’s Reward mine.
Averaging them over a period of 30 years,
N. S. Wales has seen about J of a Gent One
struck off every 12 months, the legal decree
of banishment from court having kept 21
solicitors from c-hasipg Costs since ’B7. Four
of them were luckier than R. D. Meagher in
their appeals, and got back on the rolls—
three of them to stay.
J. D. CONNOLLY, who leaves shortly for
London to take over the Agent-General-
ship for Westralia.
Old John Wood Fleming, who was 80 on
June 1, lias seen bushrangers hanged in
Russell-street, Melbourne, placed on top of
their and driven away to be buried.
The old boy, who has been in the Brunswick
Municipal Council for 50 years, .was born in
1837 on the Yarra bank, near where
Edwards's boatsheds now stand, and bis
father. Robert Fleming, a Scot, ;was the first
to bring sheep from the Speck to the Cab-
bage Garden. Flemington was named after
him. . *
Lieut.-Governor and ex-Cliief Justice
Stone was at the Bar in Westralia when
tioket-of-leave men had to be indoors by sun-
down and other strange customs prevailed.
Once lie successfully defended a Nor’-West
squatter and pearler, and lie plumed himself
on being responsible for the accused’s acquit-
tal. When he got outside the court, how-
ever, lie saw a number of flags displayed, and
upon inquiry was told that the houses on
which they were flying belonged to the jury-
men, who were all down at the pub celebrat-
ing the part they had played in getting his
client, and their cobber, off. Later on. Stone
presided as a pusine Judge over the trial of
a native for tribal • murder. As the court
was filled with a most awful smell, lfe asked
where it came from. The reply he got was
that Exhibit A was probably responsible. It
was the nigger’s remains, which had been
pul in a bag under the Judge’s table, and
had been waiting for his Honor for many,
many weeks.
Hobart pressman Leonard Hubbard, the
Speck’s crack* rifle-shot, after vainly strug-
gling to be sent 'away to the Front, where he
thought that, even if his sniping was no
good his remarkable knowledge of languages
might be, has at last got into khaki. But
only for home service. The trouble with
Hubbard is that he has only one good eye;
and though with his single eye he has won
all sorts of prizes at Bisley and elsewhere,
the Defence Department thinks that a
soldier should have a spare eye, other-
wise it might have a pensioner on its hands.
It is, of course, a fact that a few soldiers
have been sent to the Front without a spare
heart or an extra nose; but the Defence
Department evidently doesn't reckon that
that is any reason why Nelson should have
been allowed aboard the Victory.
R. B. Smith, of Yorke’s Peninsula, one of
the two brothers who invented the stump-
jump plough, and have since made thousands
of them, is still living in S. Aus.
Edward Miller, who received a King’s
Birthday knighthood, earned his little gaud
by strict attention to charity business. He
is secretary of the Australian Red Cross, and
has perseveringly kept his cheque-book in
use from time immemorial for the benefit of
public funds. An elderly citizen with a
short nose and a plump, pink chin, Miller is
the sort of person who fits naturally into a
frock-coat and a seat at a Board meeting or
committee wrangle, and it is probable that
nobody will be better pleased with his knight-
hood than he is himself. “Money” Miller
was his dad.
Professor Edward Stirling, of Adelaide
Uni., whose K.B. has arrived when he is 69,
is an elder brother of Lance Stirling, who
got his tag long ago on becoming merely
President of S.A. Leg. Council. Edward has
been Professor of Surgery since 1900; he was
one of the first Australian-born to occupy a
chair. As a side-line he has always had a
guiding eye and voice at the Adelaide
Museum, and has come to be recognised as
one of the world’s authorities on Australian
aboriginal curios and customs. He went to
Central Australia ns ethnologist with the
Horn expedition in 1894.
Dr. Truby King, whose name was in an
“honors” list the other day, is a man who
has done things, anyway. He is a specialist
in mental diseases by trade, and because of
the experiences gained in this calling he has
of recent years toiled like a coolie lo impress
upon the public the social and national im-
portance of the well-nurtured baby. Out of
the child, the local milk supply and the
ignorant mother he made a jehad, and after
a few mouths of the campaign of expostula-
tion, protest and instruction all Maoriland
was taking notice. To-day there are infant-
care circles all over the islands, working in
a practical way through specially-trained
nurses to secure the youngster the right sort
of drink, and Maoriland has the low r ost in-
fantile death-rate on earth. Truby King’s
public services, given without foe, have been
valuable beyond computation, lie is a thin,
restless wisp of a man, native born, addicted
to forgetting where he left his overcoat, and
60.
Anglican-bishop Gumbleton, of Ballarat,
imported a few weeks ago chiefly on the
strength of his record as a financial expert,
is already launching a scheme to scrape up
an extra £23,000 each year. . Eight thousand
is to go on church buildings, and the next
biggest lump is for stipend-raising. This
appointment of expert canvassers as bishops
opens up new possibilities for lately-defeated
King O’Malley. He ought to be at least an
archbishop yet.
Attended his last mooting, May 25, Henry
Fowler, aged 96, for 47 years secretary of the
South Melbourne Dispensary. This useful
servant never missed a meeting, and walked
every night threequarters of a mile to his
job. Towards the end lie was slightly deaf,
but was alert, and enjoyed the advent of the
first woman president, Mrs. 8. Hudson, a
fluent. and witty speaker, and a capable and
charming “chairman.”
LAWYER JOE WOOLF, of Melbourne.
Richmond (Vic.) claims the oldest worker
for Billjim. She is Mrs, Emma Thomas, and
apologises for not knitting as fast as she
used to because she is 96 now. The old lady
came to Victoria 65 years ago, in a ship that
had 75 deaths aboard during the five months’
voyage—mostly the result of bad food.
John Thomson, • M.ILR., was recently ap-
pointed consul for Portugal in Victoria.
Senhor Thomson fills his new uniform with
dignity, and on State occasions looks like a
hidalgo who has ripened slowly in a warm
climate. A previous rep. for Portugal in
Melbourne was Mrs. Thomson's first hus-
band, the late Langlayds Jack. Quite
naturally the lady wanted to keep so aurifer-
ous a uniform in the family.
VICTORIAN STATE COMMANDANT
BRIG.-GENERAL SELLHEIM, C.B.
C.M.G.- Fat, fair and forty or so.
Two Ballarat boys in the Birthday Honors
list —Lieut.-Col. T. E. V. Hurley, G.M.G.,
of the Army Medical, and Lieut.-Col. L. .7.
Morshead, 1 ).S.O. —had the State for their
earliest schoolmarm. Under his father as
headmaster, Hurley won enough scholarships
at Elmhurst to take him.to Wesley College,
whence exhibitions carried him to the ’Var-
sity. Here ho won honors, graduated M.l>..
M.S.. and became the youngest medical super-
intendent MelbQiirne Hospital ever had. His
brother, Leslie, broke off his studies to go as
a private to Gallipoli. Returning, he com-
pleted his course, and is now resident-surgeon
at Melbourne Hospital. Morshead, who is
28, went through Mount Pleasant State
School, and when he enlisted in the 2nd Bat-
talion was a teacher at Melbourne Grammar.
Following upon the clean sweep of the
Vic. State Becruiting Committee, Lieut.
G. .T. C. Dyett, the new organiser, who has
done good work at the Melbourne Town Hall
Depot, is tackling his big job in a hopeful
spirit. Dyett, who is a Bendigo boy, and
was at Lonesome Pine, refuses to waver
from his decision to employ none but re-
turned soldiers in recruiting work. Though
he is still in his twenties there is silver in
his hair, and there will be more before he
has finished.
When Unc. Sam’s fleet was here in 1008,
many efforts were made by would-be sight-
seers to chew the Vic. Government’s ear for
free railway passes to Melbourne. But in
those days Tommy Bent was the Govern-
ment. and Tommy’s ear was thick. One
request which he turned down was from
Captain Adeney, of the Ballarat Naval Cadet
Corps. Nothing daunted, Adeney showed the
mettle of his boys by marching them to Mel-
bourne by road. Two of them —Slater, son
of a Defence Dept, official, and Doepel. a
Ballarat College boy—are now on the march
to Berlin, and have each gathered in a
Military Medal on the journey. Slater has
won bis stars into the bargain.
“Ah S.” from top-side:—
In connection with the very latest Chinese revolu-
tion T sec the cables are wondering what side my old
friend General Chang Hsun will take. I set that
doubt at rest. Chang will be on the side of General
Chang Hsun. He is a delightful scoundrel, who can
neither read nor write, but has risen from the post
of groom in the Royal stables to he ruler of a
flourishing province and 25,000 ent-throats, and is
reported to possess a fortune of £5,000,000. Chang
is neither a Republican nor a Monarchist, neither a
Democrat nor a Conservative; he is a Changite. He
does not care a hoot for the Government. When the
Government ordered the abolition of queues Chang
refused to cut off his. or to allow his 25,000 soldiers
(who, by the way, are paid by the Government) to
cut off theirs. His doctrine is to do as he likes, and
do it often. So much so that he maintains a
private printing press for the purpose .of printing
passes for the railways. And the Government honors
them! When it did kick mildly some time ago
Chang replied to its protest by merely informing it
that his passes were good also for the Pekin-Mukden,
the Shanghai-Nanking and other lines! That is the
sort of material the new Republic is made of.
JOHN ROBBIN’S WIPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pair Hannah in the drawing-room
Neat-handed and demure was she—
A handsome, well-bred wife, than whom
No less exacting mate might be.
Plump Peggy down the kitchen stair,
She washed, and scrubbed, and baked the meat,
And handled all ibe household ware.
John Robbin, fat and free from care,
Expanded to the fragrant heat!
John Robbin was a fellow blest
With plenty always in his cribs,
Tn linen neat and good cloth drest,
Well lined with comfort on his ribs.
Three dimpled children climbed his knees;
liis homo was ever spick and span,
Set round with drilled and barbered trees.
All times a kind of fragrant ease
Caressed and laved the little man.
John Robbin thanked the kindly fates
Por Hannah, noblest household queen;
All things he saw within his gates
Precisely as they should have been.
liis floors they shone like polished glass,
And faultless,' too, were board and lied.
He saw his darling children pass
Like roses tossing on the grass,
So round, and radiant, and red.
“God bless my wife!” he said, and ate
His dinners (each the very best).
Then Hannah died, and by his grate
John Robbin sat no longer blest,
lie grieved to think how soon must go
The splendid order she had kept.
■l!is children could no longer know
Her tireless care. liis walls were low.
Beneath the falling roof he wept.
Months passed. John Robbin ceased to fret.
He wiped his eyes, for naught was gone—
His table still was bravely set ;
llis’ house was trim, his children shone
With cleanliness and health, nor missed
A mother’s hand. Down stairs lie fled.
Plum Peg ho found; Plum Peg he kissed.
“Nay, kiss me; kiss me, 1 insist!
“I thought,” cried lie, “my wife was dead 1”
Victoria.
EDWARD DYSON.


m
C
u
m
m
*
►
I
I
51
1 1
1
1
i
I
1
111!
■
lllid
S
5
m
i
9^l
PENNANT
Manufactured Expressly for
CIGARETTE and
PIPE SMOKING
from FINEST VIRGINIA LEAF
By
W.D.& H. O. WILLS
(AUSTRALIA) I_TP SYDNEY.
PIPF OF QUALITY—
400
LMN
Cl
, ery Pipe


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMOXIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buvers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
ADAMAX ROOFING will not Rust, Rot or Pinhole.
It is the most enduring roofing on the market —a permanent roofing made of long-fibred felt, thor-
oughly saturated with pure mineral hydro-carbon. The saturated felt is then heated and the finishing
process deposits a surface on the roofing which time cannot wear off. It makes ADAMAX ROOFING
timeproof, waterproof, weatherproof and fire resisting—makes it impervious to the ravages of acids,
gases, chemical fumes, etc. ADAMAX ROOFING contains no fish oil, tar or resin. It is ideal for use
on Mine and Station Buildings, Refrigerating Plants, etc. It costs one-third the price of iron. Get
full particulars in the Free Booklet, “The Adamax Series.” A copy will be sent FREE on request.
WILLIAM ADAMS CSb CO. LTD., 175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, EC. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Australasia :
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
A pi., ’OB. .212,(129 14p.c.= 112,000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct., ’OB.. 187,691 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl., ’09.. 174,111 14 ~ ~112,000 12,000 1,676,906
Oct., ’09.. 177,566 14 ~ ~112,000 15,000 1,727,472
Apl., ’lO.. 193,722 16 ~ ~128,000 18,000 1,775,194
Oct., ’lO.. 198,531 16 ~ ~128,000 20,000 1,825,725
Apl., ’ll.. 198,460 16 ~ ~128,000 20,000 1,876,185
Oct., ’ll.. 205,889 17 ~ ~136,000 20,000 1,926,074
Apl.. ’12.. 208,171 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 1,978,245
Oct., ’12.. 216,303 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 2,038,548
Apl.. ’13.. 206,644 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 2,089,192
Premiums on new shares, £600,000. . 2,689,192
Oct., ’13.. 220,977 17 p.e.= 170,000 20,000 2,720,169
Apl., ’14.. 233,897 17 „ ~ 170,000 2,784,066
Oct., ’14.. 210,509 17 ~ ~170,000 2,824,575
Apl., ’15.. 208,778 17 „ ~170,000 - 2,863,363
Oct., 15.. 201,743 17 „ ~170,000 2,895,096
Apl., ’16.. 206,663 17 ~ ~170,000 2,931,759
Oct., ’16.. 200,905 17 „ ~170,000 2,902,664
Many things have happened since October,
when 1 liese accounts closed ; and the figures
look like dim, ancient history with so much
battle-smoke in between them and us. One
thing is still worth noting, though : this bank,
being notoriously careful not to make things
out to be better than they are, shows a
smaller net profit than was disclosed just
prior to the war, notwithstanding that the
gross profit is considerably greater. In the
first place, the ’Asia is an English bank,
and the British Government long ago decided
upon its war-profits taxation. Because the
Australian Government has persistently side-
tracked that duty, the disclosed profits of
Australian cos. have been merely tentative
for the last couple of years. In a few cases a
wild guess has been made at the probable
war taxation and a contingency account has
been created to cover it. But mostly the
accounts have taken no heed of this contin-
gent liability which was piling up against
them; and the fictitious profits (fictitious,
that is, if a retrospective tax is presently
passed) have caused a lot of dissatisfaction,
and have been made great use of by the
anti-conscriptionists Look at this bank’s
taxes for two periods :
“Colonial.” British.
Oct, 1913 .. £15,203 £16,093
Oct., 1916 . . 40,208 73,868
The taxes were just about equally divided
prior to the war. Now, because the bank
knows what it has to pay in Britain and
doesn’t know what it will be called upon to
pay in Australia, the British figures are
80 p.c. more than the Australian. Probably
the directors are stowing something away
to pay an Australian war tax. Anyway,
whereas until recently the gross profit wa's
shown “after making provision for all bad
and doubtful debts,” it is now shown after
providing for bad and doubtful debts “and
for other contingencies.” And that, though
it makes the disclosed profit a mere arbitrary
group of figures, is better in the circum-
stances than publishing inflated figures.
Going back to the October balance before
the war, we get these comparisons:—
Oct., 1913. Oct., 1915. Oct., 1916. .
Notes.. .. £168,818 £263,038 £404,549
Bills, etc. . . 2,768,848 3,241,754 3,075,117
Deposits . . 18,088,955 20,578,326 19,672,174
Liquid assets 8,349,113 10,126,930 8,164,237
Advances . . 17,565,435 18,993,744 20,093,667
Premises .. 2,241 27,540 26,600
Liquid assets have kept fairly steady; War
Loan and similar investments are over a
million more, but loans at call are nearly a
million less. Advances have steadily moved
up ; but the total given is for October, 1916,
when the wool position was still unsettled.
Deposits have furnished the ’Asia with
another million and a half, and a quarter of
a million has been added through increased
note circulation in Maoriland. The bank has
£4,962,664 of its own after paying the last
dividend. An extra 1 p.c. earned by this
money—and Governments have to pay a
good deal more than 1 p.c. extra —means
£24,813 per half-year. That and the increased
net earnings of borrowed money have taken
the gross profits from £399,840 for the half-
year ended October, 1913, to £489,522 for the
past half-year. Even then something has
been knocked off the past half-year’s figures
to provide for contingencies. Yet, though
the earnings have been so excellent, the
outgoings have increased so much that the
net profit is £20,000 less than it was at Octo-
ber, 1913. Salaries and allowances in Aus-
tralasia have sprung from £108,289 to
£130,300 ; so in one item £22,000 is accounted
for. Between them, labor and taxation call
for an extra £105,000 per half-year, without
taking into account the proportion of extra
labor-cost in the item "general exes.”
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1907.. £9,249 10 p.C. = £4,126 £5,123 £45,955
1908.. 9,535 124 „ „ 5,659 3,876 49,831
1909.. 12,018 124 „ „ 5,836 6,182 56,013
1910.. 13,691 10 „ „ 5,190 8,501 64,514
Transferred to capital, £5807 .. ' 58,707
1911.. 24,624 10 p.c. = 6,301 18,323 77,030
Transferred to capital, £9670 . . 67,360
1912.. 33,737 16 p.c. = 12,760 20,977 88,337
Transferred to capital, £9308 .. 79,029
1913.. 35,351 124 p.c. = 11,209 24,142 103,171
Transferred to capital, £39,774 .. 63,397
Cash bonus distributed, £ 145 63,252
1914.. 30,263 8 p.c. = 10,482 19,781 83,033
1915.. 30,556 9 „ ~11,790 18,766 101,799
Transferred to capital, £ 26,057 .. 75,742
Cash bonus distributed, £147 .. - 75,595
1916.. 34,789 9 p.c. = 14,136 20,653 96,248
Apl„
1917.. 16,587 9 ~ „ 7,068 9,519 105,767
The last line covers the transactions for a
half-year; . and that makes the figures as
good as for any period before the war, ex-
cept 1912 and 1913. It would seem an
astonishing performance if we didn’t know
that the war, so far as Sydney is concerned,
has been up to date mostly a matter of
spending borrowed money in lavish fistfuls.
For a while after the trouble started the
building trade slumped; but now it is
almost as brisk as ever it was—in the
suburbs, that is—and houses are still being
sold and let on the plans, so keen is the
demand. Hence it isn’t very wonderful,
after all, that this co.’s profits are main-
tained. Presently? That’s another matter,
We’ve got to pay as well as spend; and,
when it comes to paying, how the commu-
nity is going to escape very hard times this
paper doesn’t know. .Jfist at present we
think we are far richer than we really are,
and we are gloating over the millions we
are dropping into the savings and other
banks. Those millions don’t mean wealth,
though. They mostly mean debt —we have
still to earn those millions. But because the
figures are soaring we are paying extrava-
gantly for almost everything, and sometimes
are borrowing to pay for more at the present
absurd prices. Smith lends a million pounds
to the country. The country scatters it,
and, though it goes into 10,000 hands, a few
hundreds —merchants, manufacturers, specu-
lators and bankers—-get hold of it. But it
is not these few, it is the many, who have
to pay Smith his interest and finally his
principal. The big profits that are being
made now, in spite of so great a number of
our men being on an unproductive job, con-
sist of little bits of Smith’s million. It is
because thousands of taxpayers are not
hanging on to any of the million, though
they are handling it in the shape of higher
wages, etc., that presently the pinch of re-
payment will be felt.
And that is when people who have sold
things on long terms at present high prices
are liable to be hit. This co. is in that
business; but it is an old hand at the
game, and if it isn’t proceeding very cau-
tiously this paper is greatly mistaken. Its
share capital is now £157,074; reserves
carry the total of its funds up to £262,841.
Its liabilities are only £38,616. Against that
it has £236,196 in advances and balances on
sales < after deducting suspense accounts) ,
£45,995 in freeholds, and the balance of
about £20,000, after providing for the divi-
dend, in War Loans and sundries. That the
land-subdivision and advances-for-building
business will fall off seems certain ; but this
co.’s freeholds are in at so low a valuation
and its visible reserves are so large in pro-
portion to capital that (unless it makes a lot
of bad debts) it could almost take its sign
down and still pay the present 9 p.c. out of
rents and by buying War Loan with its
funds as they come in.
* * * *
The Electric Light and Power Supply
Corporation, Ltd. (Sydney), which started
in 1908 with a deficit of £9576, representing
Parliamentary rights and other preliminary
exes.:—
Profit. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit. -
Dec., 1910. . £1,104 . £530 £11,652
June,l9ll.. 1,406 5 p.c. = £1075 531 11,852
Dec., 1911.. 2,321 5 „ „ 1075 680 11,286
June, 1912.. 3,255 7 „ „ 1505 1164 10,700
Dec., 1912.. 3,158 7 „ ~ 1505 1000 10,047
Debenture capital exes., £527. . 10,574
Apl., 1913.. 2,666 7 p.c. = 1003 840 9,751
Debenture capital exes., £lO9. . 9,860
Dec., 1913.. 7,020 Nil 3340 6,180
Debenture capital exes., £7531 13,711
June, 1914.. 4,429 7 p.c. = 1795 3000 14,077
Oct., 1914., 4,795 T „ „ 1588 10,870
Debenture conversion exes., £504 11,374
Apl., 1915.. 8,826 7 p.c. = 4409 5300 12,257
Oct., 1915.. 11,628,8 „ „ 5776 3500 9,905
Apl., 1916.. 9,523 S ~ „ 6177 4000 10,559
Oct., 1916.. . 14,132 8 „ „ 6602 4280 *7,309
Apl., 1917.. 11,174 8 „ „ 7405 4929 8,469
If £4920 is a fair thing to put by to pay for
repairs and renewals of plant, then the div.
at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. was not quite
earned in the six months. But this is the
half of the year when the sun favors the
customer, and on the full year the div. was
earned, witli £2090 over. Working costs in
this, as in most businesses, have been racing
ahead; but fortunately this co. has been able
to increase its output and thus show a larger
profit. This traces the remarkable progress
of the business: —
Period to Consumers. Units. Revenue.
Dec., 1908 £246
‘ 1909 . . 73 99,000 1,340
1910 . . 267 628,090 5,589
1911 . . 640 1,486,179 12,804
1912 .. 1203 2,469,470 20,564
„ 1913 . . 1950 2,803,730 30,462
A pi., 1915*.. 2911 6,662,040 52,945
~ 1916 . . 3648 6,068,539 47,844
„ 1917 .. 4421 6,664,932 52,709
•*Sixteen months.
During the period covered by this table the
capital outlay has, however, been largely in-
creased. At the outset the co. had only a
concession to supply Balmain with current
in return for consuming its garbage. Subse-
quently as contracts were made with New-
town, Leichhardt, Petersham and Ashfield
new capital had to be got in. At the end of
1909 the capital was £50,000; as at April
30. 1917, the share capital was £202,400 and
the debenture capital £62,600. During last
half-year 60,000 shares were offered to share-
holders only, and were over-applied for. So
far, only ss. has been got in on this lot, but
that has just about freed the co. from all
but its debenture debt. £50,000 of this
-is at 54 p.c.; the balance, £12,600, is all
that remained of the convertible 7 p.c.
second-mortgage debentures on April 30, and
further conversions are still being made.
Later on, the 15s. unpaid on the new shares
will certainly be wanted to provide for ex-
tensions ; but this job is mostly hung up
until supplies fall back to sane prices again.
A Government which has the taxpayers’
pockets to rifle may carry out works that
cost twice as much as they would in normal
times; but a co. which looks ahead and sees
that it will presently have to compete,
directly or indirectly, with plant provided at
normal prices can’t afford to be so riotous.
The net profits of a co. of this kind are
merely an estimate, because nobody can tell
exactly what amount must be put aside to
provide for repairs and renewals. This co.’s
plant and machinery (exclusive of buildings
and land) now runs to £82,670, and mains,
services, etc., to £162,418; total, £245,088.
A moderate 4 p.c. on that lot means £9803 ;
and there is some wear and tear also of
buildings (£22,181), The present provision
for depreciation will probably be found too
lyttle rather than too much ; and as metal
manufactures will probably be dear for a
good many years to come, it is doubtful
whether the co. will be able to get past an
8 p.c. dividend in this decade. In fact, it is
very doubtful whether 8 p.c. should have
been started ; and probably it wouldn’t have
been had it not been so necessary to attract
more capital. All the same, the concession
and contracts are unquestionably very valu-
able.
* * * *
The Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydney)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’04.. 2,012 6 p.c. =1335 677 8,464
June, ’05.. 4,783 6 „ ~ 1335 1742 1706 10,170
June, ’06.. 9,526 6 „ ~1335 3183 5008 15,178
June, ’07..10,669 7 ~,,1559 4523 4587 19,765
Written off securities, £2615 .. 17,150
June, ’OB.. 8,066 7 p.c. =1560 2504 4002 21,152
Written off securities, £2840 .. 18,312
June, ’09.. 9,572 10 p.c. =2229 2924 4419 22,731
June, ’lO.. 16,482 10 „ ~2229 6283 7970 30,701
June, ’ll.. 10,779 10 ~ ~3973 5311 1495 32,196
Mar., ’12.. 7,555 10 „ ~3000 3669 886 33,082
£4OO written off . . . . . . 32,682
Mar., ’13.. 5,976 6 p.c. =2400 3164 412 33,094
Mar., ’14.. 10,018 7 ~,,2800 3784 3434 36,528
Mar., ’15.. 3,457 7 „ ~ 2800 2945 34,240
Mar., ’16.. 10,670 7 „ ~2800 4547 3323 37,563
Mar., ’17.. 9,631 7 ~ ~2800 5902 929 38,492
Providence may temper the wind to the
shorn lamb ; but the good old ram, knowing
the ways of the world, can be much more
confidently relied upon to build a breakwind
for himself. And if he doesn’t build one for
himself he. can generally manage to make
good use of something else. When the war
started it looked as if the rich wool-grower
was going to have a cold time. But, one way
and another, he has managed very well; and
the people who handle his clips and his meat
have had three meals a day, too. This co.
certainly shows rather less profit for the past
year; but when the accounts closed the
appraisement of wool in hand under the
Imperial purchase scheme had not been com-
pleted. At March 31 the co. had 12,442
bales of wool to be still valued, compared
with a carry-over of 2718 bales the previous
year; so practically there are about 10,000
bales which the co. last year had the expense
of handling and on which the commission
will be credited to the current year. Fur-
ther, because of the very high prices ruling
for wool, this co., working on co-operative
lines, has been able to increase its rebate
from 20 to 30 p.c. of the commission. “Even
this,” the directors claim, “does not fully
represent the total saving effected by the
co.’s clients compared with selling at the
Sydney Wool Selling Brokers’ Association’s
charges without rebate, inasmuch as our
small clients would come under the higher
scale of commission, viz., 2| p.c. and 1| p.c.,
if they sold through any members of that
assoc., whereas we have adopted its mini-
mum wool commission charge of li p.c. for
all our clients, large or small.”
The co. has a share capital of £40,000;
add reserves before payment of the dividend,
£41,292. The whole of this is represented by
store buildings at Pyrmont, £71,356, and
Commonwealth War Loan, £lO,OOO. To
finance its customers (£73,166) it has there-
fore had to lean, apparently, on the bank or
depositors for an approximately equal
amount. This liability is shown vaguely as
sundry creditors, £73,384. As indicated
above, the co. plays a lone hand; but after
20 years it has firmly established itself, and,
besides appealing to the smaller man, who
has a natural bias towards co-operation, it
has the backing of Samuel McCaughey
(president), C. S. McPhillamy, of Forbes,
Duncan McMaster, and Harry Osborne, of
Currandooley (directors) —men who wouldn’t
be suspected of anything revolutionary.
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd.: —
Written De-
Profits. Dividends. Off. ficit.
£ £ £ £
Mar.,’ll.. 11,005
Aug.,’ll.. 8,192 11 p.c.= 2277 3908 8,998
Feb.,’l2.. 9,624 10 „ ~3035 5416 7,825
Nominal
Reserves.
Assets transferred to other cos. and written
up, apparently (net) £67,228 .. 59,403
Pref. Ord.
Feb.,’l4.. 11,120 10 p.c.= 1600 5 p.e.= 6070 62,853
Assets further written up, £3BB .. 63,241
Feb.,’ls. . 11,219 10 p.c.= 1200 10 p.c.= 6070 67,190
Assets further written up, £46 .. 67,236
Feb.,’l6.. 7,473 10 p.c.= 1200 10 p.c.= 6071 67,438
Feb.,’l7.. 4,267 10 „ ~1200 5 „ ~3035 67,470
This was the Tait portion of the moving-
picture business. The first amalgamation
was the General Film Co. of Australasia;
after that, when the J. D. Williams Co. came
in, two combine cos. were formed —Union
Theatres, Ltd., and Australasian Films, Ltd.
These are referred to in the accounts as
the parent cos. In addition, Amalgamated
Films, Ltd,, has whole ,or part interests in
subsidiary cos. which run picture theatres at
Northcote, Moonee Ponds and Geelong.
Also it owns the freehold oP the St. Kilda
Theatre' and the leasehold of the Majestic,
which is one of the theatres leased by Union
Theatres, Ltd. So its revenue is derived,
roughly, from four sources: (1) parent cos.’
shares; (2) subsidiary cos.’ shares; (3)
rents; and (4) interest on loans, mostly
debentures issued by the General Film Co.
in payment for assets taken over. No. 1 was
the principal source of revenue originally.
But things have not gone so well with the
combine cos. The directors say:—
Owing to the excessive Federal duty on film, the
parent cos. have deemed it prudent to conserve their
funds, and this co. has not received for the period
under review any dividend on the shares held by it in
such parent cos.
How this co.’s revenue from that source has
tailed off the. following comparison shows: —
1915. 1916. 1917.
Debenture interest and dividend
from General Film Co. and
other cos. and interest .. £10,658 £6457 £3052
Net revenue from properties . . 3,798 4867 5833
It looks as though the parent cos. paid 6 or
7 p.c. in the year to Feb., 1915, half of it
in the next year and nothing at all in the
past year. But this cannot be fairly taken
as a guide to the future. The war has seri
ously disturbed this trade. Practically no-
body but the American has been offering
film to Australia; and the American producer
has been bitten by the Yankee bug—that curi-
ous insect which makes a builder want to go
up 67 storeys high and leads the film-pro-
ducer to think that the thing to aim at is.
the expenditure of a million dallars on a
picture.
Amalgamated Pictures’ assets are not the
sort that would suit, say, the trustee co.
looking for safe securities for its maiden
aunt. Here they are (figures as at
February) :
1914. 1917.
Shares in parent cos. . . . . £87,616 £87,616
Leaseholds and freeholds (less mort-
gages and sinking fund reserve) 23,597 28,055
Subsidiary picture cos. .. .. 3,500 4,500
Debentures and sundries ... ... 25,403 22,058
How much of the £87,616 is froth and paper
and how much is represented by hard assets
this paper has no idea. There is more of the
former than of the latter, most likely. The
liabilities (apart from mortgages) are not
worth mentioning—they have kept under
£lOOO. No new capital has been got in:
throughout there have been 12,000 £1 pref.
shares and £60,710 £1 ordinaries. Consider-
ing the difficulties of the past three years
the co. hasn’t done so badly, then, in paying
10 p.c. on the prefs., averaging over 8 p.c.
on the ordinaries, providing a sinking fund
for its leaseholds and adding a shade over
£2OOO to its-more solid assets.
Australia Electric Steel, Ltd. —This
is a co., with a capital of £40,000, formed
last year to produce high-grade tool and other
Steel; and a plant has b-en running for four
months past at Alexandria, Sydney. Practi-
cally thd maximum output of this plant has


Every mine manager and electrician lias fre-
quently experienced difficulty with his signal system,
due to battery troubles. The Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, and corner
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne, can over-
come all your troubles by the installation of a special
“Bell Ringing Transformer,’’ which has been designed
to meet the conditions of the Coal Mines Act. Give us
particulars of your system, and we will be pleased
to advise and quote to your requirements.— Advt.
A new invention that is attracting marked atten-
tion is an all-steel fence made and designed in
Australia, by the Rawson Moody Manufacturing Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney. It is built with powerful
steel posts and droppers, in conjunction with which
is used a powerful non-stretch steel wire, and the
whole makes a dandy fence that b simple, strong
and cheap, as it costs only lbs. to' £1 per chain
complete. Catalogue on request.— Advt.
* * * *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, gud harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & C!o.,
Ltd , Svdnev, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt.
9 "* * * *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete ; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with anv series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
The weak point of metal pipe has been made the
strong point of Pioneer Wood Pipe. In which the
minimum amount of metal surface is exposed to rust
—a telling point when taken in conjunction with its
many other satisfactory features. Write for our
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company,
Limited (Head Office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Fac-
tories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic.;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State
Governments. — Advt.
* * * #
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd., 56 Pitt Street, Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.— Advt. #
There’s no element of the '“gamble” about an
investment in an Asbestolite Home. Fire and Ant
risks are eliminated. Age improves the material, and
owing to the large range of sizes there’s no wastage.
Finish the interiors with Three-ply Veneers and
Amiwud. Complete stocks carried. Get Booklet
“B.” Spriggs’ Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— Advt. [5
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If,
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Gyratory Rock Crusher from Australian stock: the
worid-renowned “McCully.” No. 4 manganese-fitted.
Capacity 20 to 48 tons hourly. Apply sole represen-
tatives : Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, the
Quav, Sydney; or, The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., 130 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt. * « *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for narticulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 o’Connel*‘fsTTWt, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne. — Advt.
WANTED, Two good PORTABLE ENGINES 20
to 25 h.p. Quote lowest price. Box 422
G.P.O.
!lllllllll!!i:illillllllllllllllllllll!llmllll!!llll!llillll!lllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllll
' p'jVT " 1 V i'o'Ji" " jjfu i'ji n*av j nuiew
ifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiirmiiiiiiii i ii I iiiiAiim til ill
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
fgtinppusf
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works: Tralford,,Park,^Manchester, England.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tt * 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
AV. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
X HE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
-1 fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed fOl-
- Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite '
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
now been at length reached. There is no duty
on hDh-grade steel, and only the war and the
dislocation, of shipping has made the estab-
lishment of the industry commercially feasible
in Australia, where the labor costs are ap-
proximately double those in England prior
to the war. Later on, therefore, though
something will have been gamed through
establishing a market, the business will call
for Protective treatment.
That this will be forthcoming ought to be
a foregone conclusion. Quick access to high-
grade steel is absolutely necessary to a manu-
facturing country —or indeed to a country
which employs machinery at all. For almost
all machinery somewhere or other calls
for material of a higher quality than can be
produced from open-hearth furnaces such as
those at Lithgow and Newcastle. The de-
velopment of the electric furnace has made
the production of such steel commercially
possible in Australia. Formerly only the
highest-grade ore, almost entirly free from
phosphorus, was employable. Now ordi-
nary scrap or pig can be worked up; in prac-
tice* scrap is used. On tests made by
Professor Warren and others orders were
placed with this co. by various Governments,
and as a result the co. has entered into an
undertaking with the Westralian Government
to put up in that State a plant similar to the
one operating at Alexandria.
The full possibilities of electrical steel-
production will not be realised until cheap
current from a hydro scheme is available.
Meantime, however, in consequence of the
great difficulty of procuring imported tool
and other high-grade steel, this co. has done
a national service in making it possible for
manufacturers to carry on and in some cases
extend industries which were stuck up for
comparatively small machinery parts.
* * * *
Though he hasn’t found a gusher yet, Dr.
Wade, the Commonwealth’s oil expert, is
still trustful that wells will be opened up in
Papua. Owing to transport troubles the
progress of drilling is slow; and the diffi-
culty of getting heavy machinery made has
been, another drag. The best outfit yet seen
in Australia will, however, soon leave Syd-
ney, and then the tale will be more quickly
told. At a couple of hundred feet they got
a flow of 100 barrels a day. The light
quality of this oil satisfied Wade that it was
a percolation from the main supply, and he
decided to bore on. At about 1100 ft. there
was a remarkable burst of gas—oil-gas with-
out a doubt —which threw up the column of
water in the tube to a height of 100 ft. This
gas roared out for a couple of hours. The
plant has plugged away for another 500 ft.
or so. At this part of the field it is pretty
evident that the oil can only be expected to
be reached by deeper drilling than had been
anticipated. The new plant will hammer a
hole down at another selected spot where, at
surface, oil seepages and gas hold out great
hopes. This is quite handy to the coast.
* * * *
A parcel of 7f tons of picked ore from the
Mammoth, near Bathurst (N.S.W.), being
part of about 40 tons of picked ore taken out
of No. 1 cut, has been sent to Sydney for
treatment, and has yielded 12fcwt. of con-
centrates, assaying 95.6 p.c. molybdenum
sulphide, which at 935. lOd. per unit (the
price paid ex store, Sydney), is worth £291
35., or over £36 per ton of ore crushed. Now
we’re waiting to hear about the bulk.
* * * *
Old Nymagee (N.S.W.), now the
Maroubra, and owned by an English co.,
consisting largely of people in the munitions
business, is enjoying a third or fourth life.
At present it feels quite prosperous and put
out 92 tons copper last month. In fact,
water is scarcer at this moment than ore.
Carpathia (N.S.W.) wears a smile be-
cause 25 tons of concentrates valued at
£3OOO were despatched to Sydney in five
tveeks to June 2. In addition a few tons
of rich crudes have been bagged on the mine
and despatched direct. The half-yearly
revenue should show a big improvement.
* * * *
James Hebbard, of Broken Hill, puts
things about the New Langi Logan, Ararat,
thus: 3? miles of the Langi gutter by 300 ft.
wide = 154,000 fathoms; 2500 ft. by 200 ft.
of the Cathcart gutter = 13,900 fathoms. Say
a total of 170,000 fathoms of available wash.
Then: —•
170,000 fathoms at loz .. .. ..£680,000
Less development costs .. £70,000
„ extraction at 40s. .. 340,000
. 410,000
Profit £270,000
This on a mine valued by the market at
£15,000 ought to have brought bad dreams to
the specker; but the proposed dash into calls
saved thines. The programme set forth by
Hebbard is to fire out all extraction parties
and call up 4d. or 6d. a month for the next
half-year. This should give cash to shove
the big main-reef drive down the gutter,
link up the balance shaft off No. 2 shaft with
that drive by cutting across the Cathcart
junction, and finally allow the Langi gutter
to be crossed away down south by the main
east drive off No. 2 shaft. Calls will put
£12.000 on to the £126,000 already dropped
into the Langi mine. Yet Hebbard is right.
The weak point in his report is that he esti-
mates what’s in 2% miles of a lead. The
bit of work done on the Langi South two
miles away and on the northern workings,
of the New Langi itself can’t afford con-
vincing evidence that the big block of the
lead between consists of ounce ground. The
Langi is a big lead. It has never been
crossed even after five years’ work, so that
what may lie on the east bank v or in the
big block between the south main drive and
No. 2 shaft east crosscut has to be guessed.
In the Cathcart gutter 14oz. dirt is assured.
There ought to be enrichment in the Langi
gutter below the junction of the two leads,
just as there was in the Duke gutter below
where the main lead emptied into it. So
while the Hebbard estimate cannot be exact
and cannot hide that the New Langi is still
a gamble, people would be very spiritless
if they bucked at the few pounds Hebbard
wants in order to get the mine into trim. As
one of the biggest holders in the show he
evidently won’t shirk doing his bit.
*■■***
The Corella, Cloncurry, has had dis-
appointing results in its Bosebud mine,
which was once considered a fine property.
The Board intends to close down as soon as
the bit of surface ore is used up. The
Corella has simply got to discover a new
mine, or go out, and new mines don’t grow
under every saltbush.
*** • *
Three of the principal mines at Meeka-
tharra (W.A.) —Queen of the Hills, Inglis-
ton Extended and Marmont —are now shut
down, one or two others are under a cloud
and some on the outskirts have passed
away. A few of the shows are open to
tributors, but under conditions which are
declared to be intolerable. In fact, through-
out the West a howl is being raised about
present tribute conditions. The chief com-
plaint is the difficulty of obtaining agree-
ments to work areas for a specified time or
until a particular block is cut out. Under
present conditions no sooner does the tribu-
tor strike a rich patch than the mine-owner
comes along and wants to elbow him out;
and if there is no binding agreement he
often manages to do it. This is an intoler-
able system ; and the Minister should kill it
stone-dead.
* * * *
Edna May Battler's results for the half-
year ended March are not convincing; the
co. treated 960 tons for only £3355. And
no better results can be hoped for. Tailings
and slimes averaged sdwt. lGgri; and the
erection of a cyanide plant is suggested.
What for? To treat about 770 tons of the
aforesaid 960 tons of residues, plus future
product! It almost makes you think that
the idea is to affect the market rather than
the gold yield. The report still refrains
from making any mention of the width of the
reef.
* *• * *
Edna May Consolidated's report for the
March half-year reads more encouragingly
than that of the Battler. Still some things
remain untold. So far as width and value
are concerned, the Consolidated has two
promising ore-bodies, but they do not look
so well when length and depth are. consid-
ered. The directors omitted to mention that
the main reef at 210 ft. is underlying very
rapidly into Central ground, and, should it
go down, will be in Central above 300 ft.
The co. has decided to erect a treatment plant
with a haste that is quite uncalled for.
* * * *
The market value of the various mines at
Westonia at present is approximately as
follows: Edna May, £85.000; Central,
£60,000; Deeps, £50,000; and Consolidated,
£33,000. Edna May is not looking so well.
As a matter of fact, in about two years
nothing of the Edna May will remain but
some holes in the ground and its £BO,OOO
plant, which will then be worth about £BOOO.
At the same time Edna May is an El
Dorado compared with any of the other
ventures at Westonia.
* * * *
J. Hunter, new manager and checker-up
of bores at the Nullagine, Pilbarra (W.A.),
comes out with a lusty “all-right!” Hence
the joy of Dick Hamilton and Sid Yeo,. to
say nothing of the “I told you so” chorusing
of the Billee Bobinson crowd. Colin Fraser’s
estimate of Nullagine was: Gravels, 598,500
cub. yds. = £85,3 79 : working costs, 6500yds.
weekly at Is. 3d. per yd. = £32,418; leaving
a working profit of £52,761. Hunter only
oromises to handle 3500 yards weekly at Is.
9d. per yard. That jump in costs may
shred off. 80.000 yards of Is. Sd. dirt in
Grant’s flat, where 348,560 yards were to
average 3s. 2d. The rest of the dirt runs
from ss. lid. to 2s. 3d., so that if the
Fraser-pZifs-llunter sampling is right some
hunks of profits stick out. By tacking Bd.
per yard on costs, probable profits are
written down from £85,000 to £68,000. Or
if the 2s. dirt in the One Mile Creek has to
be scrapped through being too close to the
firing line, another £lO,OOO will have to go.
Bob Turner’s Biverina South (W.A.)
seems to be feeling worse than ever. Driving
north at 200 ft. hasn’t been profitable nor
pleasant. To get the nasty taste of that out
of the mouth the co. should not only hark
back to the south shoot but try pot-luck on
the Biverina lease. H. G. Walton, once
with 8., M. and Co. at the Oroya-Black
Bange, Hannan’s Prop, and the Yuanmi, is
the new boss, vice Bichards, dead.
The dying hope of Lefroy (Tas.) fluttered
out last week when the Back Creek Deep
Leads closed down. Where the co.’s drive
struck the wash the bottom of the gutter
was smooth and sloping and the wash angu-
lar and unpayable, so, as funds were out,
work was stopped. The co. is considering
ways and means of raising the wind so as
to be able to drive and cut the lead lower
down. The directors will no doubt try to
bite the ear of the Government for a bit
more help.
Added to the lists of the Stock Exchanges,
Mt. Bead and Bosebery Mines, Ltd., which
mopped up the Hercules, Tas. Copper and
Primrose mines at Bosebery fTas.). The
Mt. Lyell is the happy parent, and takes
300,000 paid-ups. Shares on the market are
25,000 given to the Primrose Co. and 2500
applied for by directors. Others to find
their way out later will be 120,000 handed
to the Hercules, 100,000 allotted to the
Tas. Copper and 40,000 issued to pay up the
debts of these three'has-beens. The rest of
tlie 1,000,000 £1 shares of the Mt. Bead are
in reserve till the co. wants cash, when the
underwriting will have to be faced by the
Lyell. Robert Sticht is in U.S.A. hunting
out plant and electrolytic processes for the
treatment of the mixed stuff Mt. Bead will
have to handle. Echoes say that his jaunt
iias been a joyous success.
Mammoth (N.Q.) is nowadays bagging
ore for export to Kembla (N.S.W.). For
the first quarter of this year the co. des-
patched 108 tons, bulking over £23 per ton.
But the mines don’t open up well at depth.
Blair Athol (N.Q.) pays its tenth divi-
dend of 6d. per share. The net profit for six
months to March 31 was £2532; for the pre-
ceding term, £3185. The div. of Gd. all round
requires £2500. Thus there wasn’t much to
spare last half; but a good deal of time was
lost through floods. The pity is that the
co.’s splendid seam doesn’t give coking coal.
That’s what Queensland wants —and never
so badly as just now. Ipswich is doing its
best to produce a good hard coke, and is
making very fair progress; a record con-
signment of 800 tons was recently dispatched
to Cloncurry. Altogether the State now
wants 50,000 to GO,OOO tons a year, so
Ipswich is sparring for a big trade.
* * * *
Holders of Hampdens shouldn’t be discour-
aged by the low assay values frequently
reported. There must of course be large
quantities of .low-grade ore in the many
claims owned by this co. The brightest
feature of recent development is that in
going south from the main Macgregor shaft
the drive (depth 320 ft.) has run into a fine
69in. of 15 p.c. ore. The Macgregor, with
its southern drive in nearly 400 ft., is de-
veloping into a fine property. The Treke-
lano is a fair mine, too, with large quantities
of valuable basic ore. It may even be better
than fair. The opening of the next level at
400 ft. should settle that. The Duchess has
been the co.’s most disappointing card lately.
It has failed so far to make good at 1000 ft.
* * * *
New Minnie Moxham (Q.) has just
crushed 146 tons for 1520 z. (£3 18s. 6d. per
07,.). There are only two levels, but the
reef on the eastern side of the old workings
shows from sft. to 6ft. of good stone. The
reef appears to be making strongly in the
hillside beyond the old workings; so No. 1
level is almost as important as No. 2, which
has been driven 195 ft., the reef tapering off
to 15in. of good stone at the end. The
Moxham doesn’t mention ore reserves. Such
talk isn’t fashionable in North Queensland.
As the market expected, Union Steam has
decided to create a colonial register for P.
and O. stock. Dividends are to be free of
English income tax.
* * * *
“Karaji”: The Commonwealth is hunger-
ing for potash, and efforts are being made
to obtain it from prickly-pear and other
vegetable curses and blessings. In the
U.S.A., from which we get most of our sup-
plies, it is extracted from alunite,' of which
we have here a huge mass compared with
which the American deposits are insignifi-
cant. Our unused pile is at Bullahdelah,
has a height of 1013 feet, a length of 14
mile and a width at the base of three-
quarters of a mile. The alum it contains
was once extracted on the spot; but this
did not prove profitable.- Until the war
broke out the stone, worked by an open cut.
was run by gravitation to the wharf in deep
water a mile away and conveyed by steamer
to Port Stephens for shipment to Europe.
The outbreak of war stopped the trade, and
now a towering asset is lying unused for
want of chemical knowledge and commercial
enterprise. The deposit is the largest and
richest by far of its kind in the world.
“Good Australian” : A timber combine of
Pacific Coast sawmillers is the latest weapon
welded to hammer Australian trade. Most
of the big lumber cos. of Puget Sound have
joined together to put up prices against
Australian buyers, the increase in several
instances being 50 pic. Mining lumber used
at Broken Hill has gone from 50s. to 755.
per thousand feet. On top of increased
freight rates this makes the cost of lumber
landed at Port Pirie or Sydney well over
£9 per 1000 ft. Very little beyond this figure
and Australian timber merchants will be
compelled to use local timbers. Ironbark is
in active demand on the Pacific Coast, but
scarcely any other Australian wood goes
that way. If seasoned, it would.


fleerinsfs
Co
en
en
Est. 1818.
a sm
heerihg
LfIERRYBRAHW
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
ai£ ifte Corfcct
expression <~f
Goodi S&fe
<J
PAULINE et CIE
Announce that they have Greatly
Reduced all their Present Season’s
French, English and American Model Hats.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
Ceorgre Street, Sydney.
Weetr j
Lossard
w coßsSiyrs
ThqyLace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
gvs
BV
APPOINTMENT
ergv
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & QO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
sver
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVIN
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, .June 11, 193 7.
My Dear Arini,---
The Stricklands landed at Malta, owing
to the serious ill-health of the mother of the
flock. It is overmuch for a strong woman
to face the worst of the submarine zones.
To a very sick woman like Lady Edeline,
with a slender hold on life, it has been the
very-—you know what. The better idea of
putting up in Egypt for a few months seems
to have gone overboard on the voyage.
Anyhow, the poor lady was carried ashore
at the bleak rock that’s chiefly hospital
these days.
, The tall Clifford A.D.C., who was on the
stair of Governor Strickland, doesn’t go on
with the Deputy-Gov. Cullen. .It present he
is recuperating in the Itiverina. lie came
here to convalesce from the trenches, and
. hasn’t finished doing it yet.
How criss-cross are the threads of tem-
perament ! Late knight Matthew Harris,
apparently one of the most matter-of-fact
mortals, was full of the romance of old
ivories and any other antique thing he could
gather from the four ends of the globe. His
late wife was still his sweetheart through
the long illness that came before her death;
and perhaps it was she who made him a
curio hunter in the long ago. For she was
a born collector. She married at 16,
when Mat was a young man “finishing” at
the Sydney Uni. For the rest she is remem-
bered for her plain speaking and generous
gifts as Sydney’s Mayoress. When Beau-
champ was Governor—he had the same ache
for odd things—a friendship sprouted over
chats about ivories as old as Methuselah; and
for years after he left Sydney he kept in
touch with the kindly, homely lady at
Etham. In great measure to her is due the
handsome collection recently given by her
husband to the Mitchell Library.
Papua’s Excellency .T. 11. P. Murray is on
the wing to his mosquito-netted home in
Moresby, though business may call him to
Melbourne again before ho takes the boat.
Eldest son Terence —the lad who has been
wounded and mentioned in dispatches vari-
ous times in France —at last got leave to
bo present at his own wedding. A cable
says it took place about a fortnight ago.
The bride, as you remember, is Philippa, a
niece of Lord Kitchener.
Soldier-statesman William Redmond
whose death in buttle is reported this week,
was the husband of the elder daughter of
James Dalton, of Orange. His brother John
married another Dalton girl, an aunt of.
Mrs. W. Redmohcl. Only child of deceased
died some 10 years ago.
Henry White, of Belltrees, near Scone,
collects more than big wool clips. As a
kiddie, he had the stamp fever —in the inter-
vals of shinning up trees after rare birds’
eggs—-and later on bought a valuable
Queensland collection. Unlike most col-
lectors who would an they could carry any-
thing, from old door knockers to Queen
Anne mugs, over the Styx, the Australian
man has made a gift of his postage curios
to the Mitchell Library. The value, from
a philatelist’s point of view, is about
£15,000.
The Officers have gone back to their bun-
galow at Black Rock (Vic.), after seeing
Edward’s exhibition of pictures come to a
good end. The Red Cross pockets £620 as
the result of sales and art union.
Sheila Loughborough—you’ll remember
her as pretty Sheila Chisholm —is mother of
a son and heir. “Luff,” as the young lord-
ling daddy is called by the other boys, met
Sheila in Egypt, where she was “helping”
the _ soldiers, in the early days of local
Society’s rush for that fashionable sand-
spit.
Young Redfus Bestic, only son of the
George Bestics, is in port doing his bit on
a vessel recently arrived from England.
Too young to get into khaki, the Sydney boy
4s working on a transport. Father and
mother —do you remember her wonderful
frocking when they lived at Darling Point?
• —-are still on the other side. Bestic, senior,
who is a smart yachtsman, is doing patrol
work in the North Sea.
Mr. Theo Marks is advertising the sale
by auction next Thursday of his household
furniture and effects. liancliff, in Ocean-
street, Woollahra, is said to' be one of the most
superbly-furnished and-appointed houses in
.Sydney. The handsome owner has been for
long an interesting figure in Sydney society.
He married a. few years since Mrs. Darcy
Osborne, who was formerly a Miss Mail', of
Darling Point. Amongst the pictures starred
in the auctioneers’ notice are Waller’s “The
Ruling Passion” and “The Day of Reckon-
ing.”
Little Trevor Grant, who lately became
Lord Strathspey, was the second native-born
Maorilander to join the House of Lords. His
brother, the last Seafield Earl, was the first.
Grant, who was a Government servant in
Wellington, married a tall wife, gained a son
and streaked home to await the title and
something to support it. He got his first
show to talk at the Lords lately on the
double income-tax. As though that was
anything special! Why, in this land of sun
and seven Parliaments it’s the common lot
of man.
On Saturday afternoon Evie Yates, of Bondi,
took the arm of Lieut. Arthur Nunn Pattrick
from the altar in old St. James’s Church.
The man in khaki was invalided from the
Front with eye-trouble some time ago. A?
the trouble hasn’t eased off enough to admit
of active service, he has got a Home Do
fence billet. The pretty bride was in soft
white flummery, with a cloud of Limerick
lace. A long tail of silver tissue was touched
up with snow-white roses. The bride’s
sisters, Muriel and Lilian, were aglow in
wattle-bloom yellow frocks. Millinery to
match, with black leaves to finish their
Smart-Setter shapes. A wedding party at
Petty’s followed.
The brand-new Spanish Association, fath-
ered by A. P>. Piddington, got a recent airing
in the Education Building. The assoc, has
a subject of King Alfonso’s, Enrique Ortiz,
as sec., and he touched lightly in his native
tongue on the comparative emancipation of
the lady in the mantilla. It’s only compara-
tive, of course, though Donna Anna Maria
is said to bo eager to get her lord and master
(who’s as jealous as Othello) to, so to
speak, let her handle a latchkey now and
again.
Soldier Wallack, still in indifferent
health, is on the sea again in charge of
another transport. And Brig.-Gen. Syd
Christian, whose wife died lately, is on the
way out with another.
Little Mrs. Sep Levy is still in London
nibbling her war ration at the Carlton Hotel,
where she dispenses much hospitality to
Anzacs. Her t\vo soldier sons, Maitland
and Douglas, are at the Front.
In 191.” Margaret Chisholm, a clever Lis-
more girl, won the Emmeline Woolley
Scholarship. This gave her three years at
the Royal College of
Music, London. Fin-
ishing her term last
Easter, she made her
good-bye bow as a
collegian at the stu-
dents’ concert, when
she played the
famous Greig Con-
certo, with a full or-
chestra, under Sir
Charles Stanford.
“II e r success,” a
London gossip
wrote, “was beyond
all expectations, and
the press has loaded
her with its nicest
adjectives.” After the
show, Sir Charles
Parry and other
musical bigwigs dived to the artist’s den to
congratulate the girl. Here is a recent
London photo of Margaret’s round, peachy
face.
For two 'years the Soldiers’ Club has been
mothering Billjim on his drifts into the city.
When Dr. Mary Booth founded it in 1915,
she got a live committee to back her efforts.
Violet Day pushed a handsome cheque into
the till, and there has been no cadging since.
But the tide is getting low, and Something
Avill have to be done if the club is to remain
solvent. It costs just over £2OOO a year to
run. Some of this comes back from Bill in
modest sixpences for refreshments. But still
ends don’t meet. Yet the club must be kept
open, for often 1000 men are in and out of
it in a day.
A big tea-party for soldjers celebrated the
club’s second anniversary the other after-
noon. District-Commandant Lee made a few
remarks, and two returned men flung a
bouquet at the management. General Legge’s
mother, a bright-eyed old lady who takes a
keen interest in the hostel, was in the crowd.
Reinforcements from a bazaar for the Raw-
son Institute came along later. They looked
hot and puffed, for the mariners’ affair, held
in the Naval House, had broken all records
in the struggle to put two quarts into a pint-
pot.
At this sailors’ wives’ rally for the Raw-
son Institute, Miss Henderson was in charge.
After wafting the Cullen lady to the front
to open the affair, Miss Henderson got her
statistics in older. Her story was worth
telling—a story of something like £5OO added
to the funds of the mariners' shore-cabin near
the Quay.
Do you remember the pink-cheeked Phil
K. Wrigley, who was in Sydney a year ago?
lie brought out a team of motors and “did”
Australia at top speed. The lad is now in
the first rush of U.S.A. millionaires’ sons
to enlist for service in France. Just 22,
a graduate of Andover College, Boston, he
is the only chick of multi-millionaire Wil-
liam Wrigley, who makes his pile out of
chewing-gum. America is going the whole-
hog nowadays, and some of its privates could
float a war loan on their own.
In the past Lhe
Senate of Sydney
’Varsity was popu-
larly supposed to
consist of solemn
old gentlemen who
“sat” on any sugges-
tions that lacked an
early - Geo rgian
flavor. But the
swinging club of
Time gradually
knocked out the
older Tory element.
Nowadays the Sen-
ate habitually ap-
points Australians to
high seats. Follow-
ing Frank Levcrricr,
K.C., as Vice-Chan-
cellor, comes one of
the most sunshiny of home-grown profes-
sional men, Dr. Cecil Purser, the first medi-
cal graduate to wear the heavy gilded robes
of the office. Grandfather Purser came to
N. S. Wales with one of the early British
regiments, and eventually settled down out
Castle Hill way, where his son successfully
•embarked on the great adventure of fruit-
growing. The busy man whose picture I
send you preferred medicine to fighting the
ills that oreliardists are heir to. A graduate
of Sydney Uni., he grew up with Prince
Alfred Hospital. As student, medical-super-
intendent, lion, consulting physician, and
one of the Board of directors since 1909
the year in which ho became a member of
the Senate —Dr. Purser has watched the
P.A.H. buildings gradually eat up the dusty
Newtown paddocks. A Macquarie-streot
plate locates him when he isn’t doing some
hon. work elsewhere.
France’s Day—don’t forget what the Tri-
color means to us! —is, getting hatched in
half a dozen local nests. The July 13 auc-
tion sale of what the committee, dubs “use-
ful articles” is the special charge of raiders
who met in the dawn of this week at the
Town Hall. They want the names and
addresses of householders who have domestic
gods they can give to the hammer. Storage
is promised at 7 Young-street. Hon secs.
pro tern., I. E. Learoyd and H. S. Holt.
The Woolbuyers’ £5OOO goes into the
French cap. Little Mrs. Harry Austin, who
put her small shoulder to the wheel for
France in 1916, was the prime mover in har-
vesting this windfall.
Dr. Emma Buckley is on her way back
to London and the Lister Institute, where
the brilliant Sydney woman is a research
worker. During the war the Institute,
where they call old microbes by pet names
and discover new ones that keep wounds
agape, has been going at full speed. It
recently lent the Australian woman to
Prince Alfred Hospital, her former head-
quarters, and while in her native State she,
with other bacteriologists, peered into the
origin of various mysterious illnesses that
had broken out in N. S. Wales. I don’t
think she had any doubts about the matter.
“The Jackeroo,” by the late Thomas
Spencer, put up a good record in laughs at
St. James’s Hall the other night. Ellis
Troughton as the Jackeroo; William Chap-
man; Nellie Lawson, a handsome damsel
with flashing eyes; Fred Veitch and J.
Clarence Lee; Violet Haldane .in grey cork-
screw curls —these and others supplied a
mirth-making performance. Proceeds to the
Soldiers’ Club, and there’s to be a repetition
on Saturday night.
Sydney’s Industrial Blind Institution- had
an evening out at the Town Hall last week.
On the platform, C.J. Cullen, Prof. Andy
Stuart, Archgaiters Wright, his Grace Kelly
and sundries —the sundries including motion
pictures that showed blind soldiers tuning
and polishing pianos, etc. A concert fol-
lowed, with Ella Caspers in the programme.
The Crown-street Women’s Hospital broke
out in a linen tea on a recent afternoon.
Mrs. Earp, on the Board, provided the
music, which fiddled in an adjacent room.
Miss Margaret Harris was hostess for the
tea party. Judge Backhouse, one of the
trustees, and his cheery missus were in the
crush.
The Gardener’s Daughter hat is a threat
for springtime. It’s so large and flat and
cabbage-leafy in shape that the girl under-
neath will look like a threepenny bit with
half a crown perched on top.
The Royal Society’s last meeting listened
to the learned chat of Dr. H. G. Chapman.
The minor miracle of germ-growing on
peptone was the text. Chapman, M.D., is
the recently-elected president of the T.in-
nean Society and the hrst local doctor t<;
occupy the chair. On the sunny side of 40.
the brilliant Melbourne graduate is now
Assistant-Professor of Physiology at our
'Varsity.
The hopeful country committee keeps
a grip on its Triangle Day stocking .till not
another penny can be wrung out for it.
Final statements, therefore, still hang fire,
pending Mrs. Wattle-Gum’s reinforcements.
But there’s no reason to doubt that £lOO,OOO
will be far off when the last copper is in
the Y.M.C.A. mug.
How the scone and tea does draw the knit-
ting sex to be sure! On Bed Triangle
Friday the Red Cross Book folk, who had
a tent for the sale of tea and scones, took
over. £5OO. They served 4000 persons
with 4000 indigestions. And the flag that
they stretched taut to lure coins had £OO in
coppers thrown on to it. As for Mrs. Mae-
kinnon and Miss Edith Hill, they combed
£l4OO out of the public, but they had eight
stalls and a legion of girl helpers.
At the Old Gold and Silver stall a man
whose identity none there knew* paused long
enough to detach his watch-chain and hand
it over to the fund. It was valued at £lO.
The things the O. G. and S. ladies said
about that generous, modest donor would
make , him blush, like a summer sunset. O.
G. and S. have had various bits of luck.
Melba on her last visit to Sydney bought a
little antique watch from there and paid well
for it.
The A. E. Hughes quartet—father, mother
and two pit tty youngsters—had a seven
months’ trip to India, and have a waggon-
load of impressions. Through A.D.C. Vcr-
ney—now Colonel and something gorgeous
besides on the staff of his old chief. Viceroy
Chelmsford-—they were guests of tin* Begum
.of Bhopal for a few dazzling days. The
train landed them at their destination at
midnight or thereabouts. A glittering staff
'of liveried servants and a couple of car-
riages then sped them through the exquisite
Indian night. “Sped” is the word. For
the pace of horses in that land of turbaned
mystery is something to be remembered if
you get through with whole bones. Even
Australian driving back from an up-country
“picnic” race-meeting is said to be a mere
walk compared with the pace of the nags
that rush a Begum’s visitors through the
mystic scenery. The Hughes family arrived
intact, and had a wonder-glimpse of the
stout, elderly hostess’s glittering circum-
stances.
That small spark of galvanic energy,
Nellie Leach, the girl who learnt to sing
with old Marchesi, is rounding-up a big list
of performers for a gala matinee. It’s for
France’s' Day, and Mclntosh lends the
Tivoli. Mrs. Alex. Gordon and some of the
other Gordon clan —Barbara and chorus —
are in the bill. June 26.
Mrs. Jack Ramsay, widow of a Sydney
pressman, is going to turn her hands to
chicks and incubators. She is off up to
Hawkesbury College for the winter course
of lectures, after a useful bout of practical
work on Miss Brace’s poultry run.
London Bank premises are going to rise
on the dust of the block now yawning on the
corner of Pitt and Moore streets. The pull-
ing-down business turned out the Red Cross
toymakers to another lair in Wynyard-
street.
Have you noticed the big pockets, like'
donkey’s panniers, on the hips of the latest
overseas frocks? Lined with a light satin,
to pick up a touch of color in the wintry
cloth, they show their innards with unblush-
ing candor. Splendid hauls for the sneak-
thief would be inevitable, but —this is war-
time ! —and the lady inside the panniered
bags doesn’t trust her purse in such open
thoroughfares.
Latest effort of the Maoriland Returned
Soldiers’ Reception Committee is to help
French Day by building a stall in Darling-
hurst. They want customers in crowds on
July 13.
Sydney High School’s old girls and young
ones are going to man a coffee stall on
France’s Day at the Commonwealth Bank
corner. And they’re a persuasive lot —
especially wheh reinforced by Mrs. Hickey’s
more or less famous collecting bulldog.
Yours affectionately,
VANDOKIAN.


Hardy Brothers
LTD
JEWELLERS.
THE “SERVICE” LUMINOUS WATCH
PLAINLY VISIBLE AT NIGHT.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED I'OK MILITARY USE.
! m
7C=3
7"!
ED
©
Solid Silver High-grade Swiss Lever Watch, Fully Jewelled, Fitted
in a Strong Pigskin Leather Strap with Covered Metal Cap. A
Thoroughly Reliable and Accurate Timekeeper.
£3 3 0
AIX WATCHES Cl CABANTEED BY HARIIY BROS. LTD.
I’ive Per Cent. Discount on all Cash Purchases.
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W.
The POWERS 6B
is the Biograph
that Gives Perfect Projection.
gsve
Most Biograph experts, all over the world,
prefer the Powers 015, because of the per-
fect definition that it gives all over the
picture, the unerring accuracy of the mechan-
ism. and the high-grade quality of its
component parts, which means lasting ser-
vice.
It is in use in most of the leading Picture
Theatres all over the world —in Sydney it is
used in Waddington’s Theatres, the Lyceum,
Crystal Palace, ..Empress, Iloyt's. Lyric,
Australian Picture Palace, Woollahra Picture
Palace and many others. It is also used
by the Progressive Film Service, and the
Co-operative Film Exchange, for the private
projection of their films.
We invite inspection of this machine.
If you live out of town send for our Cine-
matographic Catalogue and Operator’s Guide
—post free to any address.
Send Your Residues and Assays
= to HARRINGTONS’. =
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal Workers can depend
on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 57-59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying-, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give ns a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (3 lines).
L T °
Photographic anti Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St.l27Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide / Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
I went to buy
a Gramophone
I found something' infinitely
g'reater the VOCALION!
■
1(1(1(11
m
uvuv
Iff/
SSi
:s :
LIII
mm
, !
B EFORE 1 purchase'l. I i oolced
at many types of disc playing
instruments. Fine though
some of them were, the differ-
ences seemed trifling. ATI looked,
alike. One may have given a little
better results in instrumental music,
and another with the human voice.
And then my quest led me to the
NEW INSTRUMENT, tho Aeolia-
n and all others faded from,
mi nd.
In the \ ocalion I heard music.
I never dreamed a Phonograph
could produce. Sweet, full rich-
ness of tone vibrant with the
very quality of. life, delicate
tonal tints marked the differ-
ence of instrument and instru-
ment. Mere was the model to
satisfy my desires, its appeal
was irresistible. 1 was charmed
with the “GRADUOLA” ex-
pression device ; by gentle pres-
sure the music seemed to melt
to ray touch, swelling forth to
a full flood of melody at will;
what joy at expressing my own
feeling, and then "at the end
(vf the selection all was silent ;
ii had automatically stopped.
The Aeolian-Vocalion
THE GREATEST OF ALL DISC PLAYING IN-
STRUMENTS WAS THE ONE OF MY CHOICE.
Call and hear it, or write for Catalog showing models and easy terms.
Sole Manufacturers :
Pianola Cbtnpant^
Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney.
252 Collins Street, Helbourne,
436 Queen Street, Brisbane,
88 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Send Us this Coupon
and we will mail an interesting‘descriptive Catalog, showing
the easy terms of payment that will place a Vocation in your
Home without detail.
Please send me Catalog M, describing the Vocation, as adver-
tised in Bulletin.
Name . ...
Address


GstablithtO 1640
rgsv
artners
STARTLING
1 wjaae
IQF.FLRI
2000 PAIRS!
All made on smart, pointed-toe lasts —a shape not at
present in demand. Boots actually in many instances
worth twice the price.
ALL 14/6 PAIR.
UJJ7 GLACE KID LACE BOOTS, patent toeeaps, welted
soles, high-quality kid, easy fitting, a boot of everlasting
life. ’
jrjjjg GLACE KID LACE BOOTS, welted soles, self toe-
caps, splendid for city or country wear, worth double the
price. WE PA y CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
erg
UR7.
14/6
PAIR.
ser
URB.
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Foujtd in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in Oct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
Missing Friends.
FRANK GRAHAM.
INFORMATION is required as to the
whereabouts of FRANK GRAHAM, for-
merly of Ambleside, Westmorland, who
emigrated to Australia about 28 years ago.
The last letter received from him by his
mother was written from Brisbane, and he
then stated he was about to go up coun-
try in charge of cattle. He has not since
been heard of. If he wishes to benefit under
his Mother’s Will he must send in a claim to
us before the 6th March, 1918. Anyone who
can give any information is requested to
communicate with GEORGE GATEY &
SON. Solicitors, Ambleside, Westmorland,
England.
SPECIALIST EXPLAINS CAUSE OF
STOMACH TROUBLE.
VALUABLE ADVICE TO SUFFERERS.
“There are many different forms of
stomach trouble,” said a well-known
specialist recently, “but practically all are
traceable to excessive acidity and food fer-
mentation. That is why the results obtained
from the use of drugs are usually so dis-
appointing. Admitting fermentation and
consequent acidity of the food contents to be
the underlying cause of most forms of indi-
gestion, it naturally follows that the use of
a reliable antacid, such as bisurated mag-
nesia, which is so frequently prescribed by
physicians, will produce better results than
drugs or combination of drugs. Accordingly
I almost invariably advise those who com-
plain of digestive trouble to get some
bisurated magnesia (note the name care-
fully, as other forms are not so suitable for
this purpose.) from their chemist, and take
half a teaspoonful of the powder, or two
5-grain compressed tablets, with a little
water after meals. This, by immediately
neutralising the acid and stopping the fer-
mentation, removes the cause of the trouble
and insures normal and healthy digestion."
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne. June 11, 1917.
My Dear Yarrxe, —
Lady Helen opened the Hawthorn Red
Cross fete on Saturday, and was provided
with an Anzac guard of honor. When poli-
tician Bob Best got up to “introduce” her
Ex. the people in the Town Hall were too
busy crowding round the stalls to take any
notice of Robert. Still, his big voice could
at times be heard booming above the din.
Mayor Russell, looking very pink and shiny,
chirped a request for silence “while her Ex-
cellency is speaking.” The crowd remained
quiet for four seconds; then the din broke
out again. Lady Helen spoke her piece im-
passively ; but his Worship grew steadily
pinker while the long and unnecessary cere-
mony lasted.
Purple Cross enthusiasts gathered at Gov-
ernment House gates on King’s Birthday
and proceshed to Richmond racecourse, where
they corroboreed to raise funds for the St.
John Ambulance—the society which under-
takes, with very limited resources, to reinove
Melbourne’s motor-car and apoplexy victims
out of the way of the traffic while the
authorities are otherwise unoccupied. The
Purple Horse-women were mostly in khaki
habits with purple sashes, and had garlanded
their animals with ribbons of the same fierce-
ness. At Richmond there were bazaar-stalls
and horse and motor-car events. In the
ladies’ hack race, Sybil Horne, mounted on
the likeliest-looking nag, got away to
a bad start and came last, but the
crowd gave her loud, consolatory cheers.
The Fitzsimmons centauress won this race,
as well as the hurdles, and took a second in
the jumping-contest. Lieut-Colonel Embling’s
wife, who marshalled the parade, won a prize
for being the best rider. Several thousand
sympathisers turned up to watch the fun and
help the fund.
The raffle got up by the Brodribbs, the
Norman Brookes dame, the Russell Grim-
wade girl, and Mrs. Orme Masson for
a cupboard of linen raked in £1770. Mrs.
Cottee, at Mont Albert, won the precious
thing. Every prospective bride in the town
plunged on tickets.
Ada Reeve made a tremendous hit with
her Anzac Buffet matinee at the Tivoli on
Friday. Something like £2OOO was gathered
in. The •programme started at midday, and
was still trundling on at six o’clock. Melba
boxed there all day, autographed a tray-
clotli that Ada Reeve had worked, and
bought heaps of things, livening up rival
bidders with £5 advances. Mrs. Lempriere
acquired a kookaburra for £5O, and Mrs.
Frank Clarke bought pearls and made a
descent on her friends in the audience to
rouse them about the Jumble Fair in which
she is interested.
The Mayoral Wynnes of Kew bought up
the Glenferrie picture theatre for a night
and sold the seats for Red Cross, gathering
£5OO for the good cause. Mrs. Wynne, in
black and purple, received at the head of
the stairs, and naice girls acted as ushers,
and found it awf’ly exciting.
'Oliver Winter-Irving, the bright star of
the four polo-playing brothers, who relin-
quished that brand of sport in favor of Hun-
chasing last year, is now detailed for duty in
Ireland. His wife and children are flatting
ia South Kensington.
Lawyer Wishart’S son Jack was listed as
“missing” for six weeks, and his mother
suffered the usual agonies. Now the news
comes through that he is a prisoner in Ger-
many, so cables are flying to London rela-
tions to send him food-parcels. He was a
mere schoolboy when he left with the artil-
lery for France. He joined the Flying
Corps later. Two other Grammar School
pals vanished with him —young Hawkins and
Mrs. Guy Sherwood’s second son.
Aubrey Officer, who, with his brother
Geoffrey, has been posted missing since
April 11, has got a word to Dalgety’s in
London, who report him “wounded and
prisoner in Germany.” “No news of Geoff
to date,” they add.
The Ashdown widow, who had crossed
from Sydney to the Speck to meet her Army
Nursing daughter Maud (now Mrs. Percy
Mann), was told on stepping ashore that
her eldest son Arthur had fallen in action,
just three months after the passing of her
youngest, Cecil. Another son was lately
invalided home severely wounded. But
there is a fourth to still represent the warrior
family in the firing-line.
After two months of tent-sweeping and
dixie-slushing, gunners Franklin (Grammar
School “head”) and Wallace (Uni. pro-
fessor) have been handed three stripes
apiece and admitted to the Officers’ School.
The night the stripes arrived an uproarious
gathering of Public School soldiers invaded
the ex-headmaster’s bit of tent for a con-
gratulatory corroboree. Their veils of appre-
ciation were taken up by gunners right down
the line.
Aeting-Brig.-General Hal Grimwade, who
gave up a transport job last year to take
big guns and gunners across, is C.M.G. now.
Golden-haired Mrs. Hal, with daughter
Gwen, is in London.
The sword, alas, was mightier than the
pen! Corporal G. B. Crerar, author
of that line example of Billzae verse, "Lp
and Down the Duckboards,” printed some
months ago on the Red Page, died of wounds
at the 6th General Hospital on May 20. He
had reached sergeant’s rank, and had seen
two years and three months’ service in Gal-
lipoli and France. Aged 34.
“Measles drear with spots” are the fashion-
able agony of the moment in London. It
all began with pretty Princess Pat. She
set the fashion, and soon Audrey Chirnside,
Sheila Macdonald, Airs. Jack Fetherston-
haugh, one of the Mitchell girls, and half a
dozen others were laid low in a bunch.
Fred Fairbairn’s breezy wife is coming back
to see after her husband’s health. She has
elected to voyage in a troopship—to ensure
lots of able-bodied help “if anything should
happen, you know.”
Wealthy widow Horsfall is giving up her
proposed gallop around Bananaland, and in-
tends sheltering at the Carlton in Sydney
for a while.
The Forrest dame is acting as devoted
nurse to Bigjohn and abandoning heaps of
engagements. The bandaged is
looking like “the lock of a Rugby scrum,” an
English friend of mine put it.
Rupert Clarke, looking heavier and in the
very best of health, despite his experience at
the Front, has been over to Sydney to talk
New Guinea rubber with his Port Moresby
manager, who had tripped south to meet the
warrior.
British Consul Fulford, down from Tien-
tsin (China) on a six-paonths’ visit to his
native Australia with his wife and the little
daughter, has been saddened by the sudden
death of Mrs. Fulford’s mother, widow of a
one-time noted Melbourne doctor. The blinds
were drawn on Thursday last.
The reward of “National” virtue arrived
on Saturday night when Ted Mitchell, K.C.,
fed all Federal candidates, successful or
otherwise, who happen to bo Melbourne
Clubites. Bigjohn Forrest, out on the spree
for the first time since his recent illness,
attacked the rich food, and never once heard
the echo of a warning voice: “Jack, you
rnust not eat pOte de foie gras!" Willie
Kelly sparkled carefully, and even Senator
George Fairbairn lighted his melancholy
countenance with a smile. Defeated candi-
date Jowett looked hopeful of better things
to come, and soldier-headmaster Franklin sat
with the political headlights wearing his
sergeant’s stripes.
Noel Stewart, youngest of the Ken Brod-
ribb girls, comes down from Shanghai this
month and will shelter under the maternal
wing at the Melbourne Mansions flat. Rumor
says husband Kenneth has booked for the
trenches.
Mrs. Harrison Moore, wife of the learped
Professor of Law, is wrapped up in Thrift
meetings; and the League which is devoted
to the discussion of the virtue found time
at the last meeting to say some nice things
about the pocket-edition birthday honor that
had been handed to the little Professor. Mrs.
Arthur Robinson was deputed to go the
rounds of unfortunate outpatients at Mel-
bourne Hospital and preach thrift to them
Another batch of leagueites, in beautiful
hats, are to preach it to soldiers’ wives.
Mrs. Charlie Timms has acquired a brand-
new baby daughter, and the advent of the
youngster caused even more excitement than
the two wonderful new racehorses that hus-
band Charlie has just bought and added to
his string of about 40 gallopers. Mrs. Timms
stayed in Adelaide with baby, and so missed
the Melbourne Birthday meeting. Sister-in-
law Mrs, Joseph Timms also deserted this
autumn, and went to Maoriland.. The ladies
alwavs provide a dress sensation for the
promenaders. They also roll round in lovely
motor-cars and approach the subject of
thrift in priceless furs of the most fashion-
able cut, thereby impressing the poor-an -
’umble with their sincerity. The poor’s sense
of economy is aroused. They start thinking
more than ever of how to save their lives.
Sister Adelaide’s budget
Brewster Jones’s concert for .the Y.M.C.A. war
funds, at the Victoria Hall on Saturday night, was
a credit to all concerned. lie and his dark-haired
sister won the honors with a piano and violin duet,
but Dorothy Terrell and Coralie Godfree were not
more than a bar behind in the applause. On the
same evening Miss Lucy Stevenson was responsible
for a concert in the hall of the Blind School. Harold
Parsons and Harold Wylde were amongst her helpers.
The Cheer-Up and Red Cross Societies found trade
more strenuous than usual while 700 returned
wounded were here on their way to the Eastern
States. The Red Cross indefatigables turned the
annexe of the Exhibition Building into a rest- and
reading-room, and arranged lunch for any man who
liked to roll up and produce an appetite. The
Cheer-Ups lunched over 600 of the party,
ran about a hundred of them, per drag and motor, to
Glenelg for tea, fed the remainder in town and
attended to business as usual. On the second day of
the men’s stay they went by special train to Mount
Barker for lunch and sports. Meanwhile feminine
patriots were “going it - ’ at their stalls for
the Household Fair at Ruthven Mansions. At that
busy centre you could buy anything from a joint of
beef to a boudoir cap. Over £7OO was netted for
the Red Cross and Mine Sweepers’ fund. Miss Edith
Young and Miss Fergusson were the organisers.
The series of Uni. lectures on the application of
science to the development of the resources of the
State begin on Tuesday, when Lady Galway will
speak bn the practical and economic value of modern
languages. Did you know that we had neither chair
uor lectureship in any modern foreign language?
Dr. de Crespigny, who was medical superintendent
of the Adelaide Hospital and in charge of the patho-
logical laboratory, has got his D. 5.0.; so has Major
Parsons, one of the original officers of the 9th Light
Horse. A D.C.M. has come to Sgt.-Major Harring-
ton, eldest son of the manager of the National Bank
of Australasia; and an M.C. to Chaplain Durnford,
who was in charge of the parish at the Burra when
he enlisted 18 months ago. By the way, Major
Loutit, who got his D. 5.0., is only 22. Lieut.-Col.
Butler, one of the Richard Butler sons, has also been
awarded that decoration.
The Military Consumptive Hospital at Bedford
Park is to be opened on June 21. On the previous
day the foundatibn stone of the receiving-house for
mental cases will be bedded at Enfield.
Burglars and temperance agitators are equally
prominent in Adelaide just now. Both professions
are thriving. By the way, a Renmark settler who
had £lOO worth of jewellery stolen 14 years ago had
a slice of luck when the swag was unearthed the
other day under a tree two miles away from his
house.
Saturday night saw the inauguration of the Win-
the-War League at the Exhibition. Senator Newland,
Brig.-Gen. Forsyth and Miss Scobie were the speakers,
and other attractions were a military band and
chorus of women’s voices. Rather than give infor-
mation to the enemy I will say no more.
A happy woman in Bute is Mrs. G. Cousin, whose
17-year-old son has been retrieved from the trenches
and will be kept out of them till he’s 19. Already
he has been in the front lines seven times, but
now he has the job of batman to one of Gen. Bird-
wood's staff. The General himself has written to
Mrs. Cousin congratulating her on her spirited
soldier-boy.
Mary Iveast, eldest in the young family of
Iveast, M.L.A., is engaged to Bert Abrahams,
son of the departed Laurie Abrahams. The
jolly little girl got her ring at Mornington,
where the Iveasts have been rusticating.
Bert runs the Australian Knitting Mills
while his brother is away on active service.
Dolly Castles is billed to marry Captain
Finn, D.S.O. Dolly is said to be prettier
and fluffier than ever, and is going into
musical comedy again in America while her
soldier hubby is busy tuning up the Hun.
Cesca Rubinstein, sister of beauty-special-
ist Helena, was married the other week. She
kept it a deep, dark secret for a fortnight,
and then allowed bridegroom H. Cooper to
spread the glad news. He is a paper mer-
chant who has been looked upon as a wary
eligible for years. Cesca held his hand sym-
pathetically through a convalescence from
appendicitis.
Undismayed by floods of rain, slim arid
stately Ethel Box said “I will” to G. Schol-
lick (her brother-in-law) last Wednesday.
It happened at the flat of a married sister,
Mrs. Jack Currie, at Melbourne Mansions.
The McCullochs, Harry Boxes and various
other relatives stood round and threw flowers.
The bridegroom at one time managed Wan-
dook, the Alex. Landales’ Deniliquin station.
When the polls were declared at the House
on Friday the seven Senate candidates re-
sponded in varying moods. Vida Gold-
stein sang a shrill song of defiance. She
was not unhappy at her defeat —not
a bit of it! She gloried in the good votes
she had wrenched from a wretched, man-
infested country. Like the lady in the song
she counts them over one by one- —her
Rosary.
The Russian concert, the other Wednes-
day, scored the most fashionable audience
seen lately. The night was almost washed
off the calendar by the rain, but. in spite
of that every seat was filled by social super-
dreadnoughts. Melba gave her blessing, but,
being ill with a cold, did not venture from
her fire at Coombe Cottage. Mrs. Grebin,
the lecturer in Russian language who has
just been appointed to the University,
arranged everything. There was a . small
orchestra of sweet-sounding Russian instru-
ments, and violinist Max Selinsky played,
though he was grey-green with illness.
An Australian in Noo Yark tells me he
met Amy Castles recently. She is getting
much thinner, and is hugely delighted over
the fact. She was due to sing “Rule
Britannia” at the Metropolitan in May, and
had made a great hit with an April recital.
Many folk in art circles in Melbourne
will be sorry to learn of the death of Mrs.
Web Gilbert. In the days when she was the
wife of the Australian sculptor (now in
England) she entertained a good deal and
everybody was sorry when a matrimonial
difference a few years back parted the clever
pair.
Ferdinando, treasurer for many years of
the Victorian Artists’ Society, has resigned,
much to the regret of the members, who
rose up and made speeches at him the other
night. A gold watch and chain of remem-
brance was handed to him amid applause,
and much music was woven round the event.
Ferdinando has been a member of the
V.A.S. since its inception, and increasing
years and added responsibility decided him
to take a rest. He toils in an aldermanic
way for Brighton, and is related to the
artistic Hoyles and Colqubouns.
The Victorian Artists’ show ended on
Saturday night with a Meldrum lecture. The
president screened photographs of works that
will live through the centuries because of
their inherent truth, and contrasted them with
other works —or jobs—that were slung
together for effect and will be slung out to-
morrow. Some pictures from Australian
galleries were held up as shocking
examples; but the diplomat avoided
showing any Victorian exhibits. He
extolled the dominating qualities of Japanese
art and implored the congregation to reach
out after Truth, Simplicity and Directness.
A large crowd of Eastern Hill people took it
all to heart, applauded and then drank coffee.
Mrs. Meldrum played and a few Conserva-
torium voices were uplifted.
Bananalander Stella Marks, wife of the
versatile Monte Marks, of Melbourne, is
getting ahead with her miniature painting
in America. Since her famous little portrait of
Princess l’nt of Connaught (copies were sold
for lied Cross to the tune of many thou-
sands) she has been rushed with commis-
sions. She is now “doing” the Lady Maude
of Devonshire.
Perhaps you have (or will) come across
a new Australian novel, “Painted Clay.” The
author is “Cupel Boake.” This is the weird
name assumed for literary purposes by Doris
Kerr, a serious Melbourne girl, who takes a
large size in ambition. Doris is quite young.
She spends her days in a city office and
moves in literary circles in the evening.
There was almost a pre-war appearance
about the audience that crowded Her
Majesty’s for the .christening of “The Pink
Lady.” Cyril Maude, who looks like the
charming, middle-aged man of the world you
meet in Pinero’s comedies,'was on exhibition
in a dress-circle box next to the managerial
pen, which was occupied by the Tallises and
Minnie Everett. In one of the opposite
boxes was young Clifton Boanas, who has
lately been winning success as a composer
of ditties full of sighs and crushed roses, and
a party of matrons. C. H. Workman looked
on from the d.c., and Walter Kirby was
observed gazing around the house with an
expression of infinite melancholy. The pre-
vailing idea was that he was looking for the
lost chord.
Dorothy Brunton and her mother had a
farewell supper-party at the Grand Hotel
just before the departure for Sydney. About
50 people were there and the small Dot
danced and sang for them till she was tired.
A crowd of returned soldiers serenaded her
before she started the packing up.
Dot Brunton had a farewell at Her
Majesty’s when the “Three Twins” died. There
was a big party of soldiers in front, and she
made good use of them when speechmaking-
time arrived. She loved them all and a lot
of them loved her, said Dot, and she hoped
after the war to spend her honeymoon with
an Australian soldier. (Roars.)
Cyril Maude was in front —a large, brown-
faced man in a massive brown overcoat. He
went behind the scenes afterwards and
cheered the departing star-girl.
The Girls Who Stayed at Home (and went
away to Tasmania) made £5OO while they
were there. Gwen Watt stayed a few days
after the season closed as the guest of Mrs.
Codrington Miller, the grass widow of an
ex-genthelp who is busy in France. .
Little Fayette Perry is giving intense
satisfaction to feminine playgoers with her
latest gowns. In “The White Chrysanthe-
mum” she spreads 20 yards of green silk
shot with gold (like the bush beetles) in
pleats and puffs from waist to knee. There
is little above the waist besides net and fur
and white shoulders, The skirt has an in-
turned hem —a device which makes a
woman’s dress look like a barrel or trousers,
according to the wearer’s figure. Then she
wears about 18 yards of striped black-and-
white silk, puffed so that the stripes cut
across. A she-comedian who plays a Japanese
bride invites a laugh with the wreath she
wears for fyer second marriage; there are
oranges among the orange blossoms.
Right on top of the high Auditorium, in
Collins-street, gum-trees are beginning to
wave branches against the sky. Artist
Chris Lorimer is the proud nurser of the
gums. She has grown them on the roof-
garden that she shares with physical-Cultu-
rist Ethel Webb.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANANA.


3
l-
-3
9M
s
U
r\
D
ni
Q
35


Make Your Own Cough Mixture
and Save 10s.
The practice of using such habit-forming opium extracts as laudanum, paregoric,
morphia, etc., for the home-making of cough mixture cannot be too strongly dis-
couraged. Their frequent use does untold harm, especially to children of tender
years. Besides .dullimr the brain, opium preparations cause constipation, one of the
greatest sources known of human suffering. The discovery of HEENZO (registered
name for Hean’s Essence) has made the use of all harmful drugs entirely unneces-
sary. By its aid anyone may, in a few moments, prepare a pint of the finest-quality
cough, cold, croup and sore throat mixture it is possible to have. There is certainly
no other medicine which acts more speedily in the loosening of phlegm, soothing and
healing inflamed mucous membrane, and allaying bronchial distress. 'Besides being
so good medicinally, HEKXZO (Hean’s Essence) is a great money-saver. A pint
nf ordinary cough mixtures, put up in a lot of little bottles, would cost at least 12/-.
HEENZO costs only ■'!/-. thus effecting a clear cash-saving on each bottle used of
10/-, a big consideration these times. If your chemist or store cannot supply
HEENZO (Hean’s Essence) you may obtain it direct from the manufacturer,
Q. W. lIEAN, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. In addition to being such
a wonderful cough cure, when diluted. HEENZO, used full strength, quickly stops
toothache, earache, stomaeh cramps and diarrhoea. ■ For this reason many people get
two bottles, one of which they make up ready for use when coughs and colds come
along, and the other they hold undiluted for use as. occasion may arise.
A Signal Success
*3
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Pick": “Bareoo" (B. 10/5/T7) says
that he can keep the koala happy and contented in
captivity for years. Well, by letting- out his know-
ledge of how it is done he may teach something
hitherto unlearnejl by the caretakers of every zoo in
the Commonwealth, and many abroad. Hundreds of
koalas have from time to time been caged in the
Sydney and Melbourne gardens, and there fed with
every dish recommended in the gmnleaf cookery-book,
but not one ever survived his loss of freedom for
longer than a few months. My experience has been
that when caged or tied up, though the koala feeds
readily and becomes pleasingly gentle and docile, he
soon adopts a mopish attitude, and uncomplainiijgly
passes in the marble.
“Waudi”: “James E. D." (B. 17/5/M7)
says that, “although a pommy and consequently
supposed to know nothing,” he proposed to correct
my statement that the apostle bird, the white-winged
chough, magpie lark and swallow are the only Aus-
tralian birds which build mud nests. “On the
North Coast,” he says, “there’s a little bird called
the peewit. Tie builds a mud house.” James is a
pommy, all right, for peewit, or peewee, is only
another name for the magpie lark (Grallina pieata >.
This dainty little black-and-white bird was com-
monly called peewee, in imitation of its cry;
but as peewit is the name of a European plover it
is now popularly known as magpie lark. I don’t
know what “May D.” (same issue) means by magpie
robin, but presumably that is another local name for
the same bird. Other local names arc Murray mag-
pie, mudlark, soldier and pugwall. “Sarto” (same
issue) asks what about the kingfisher and diamond-
sparrow? The latter, properly diamond bird, of
which there are several species, tunnels into banks
and builds a nest of grass, fine bark or fibrous roots
at the end of the tunnel. Some of the kingfisher-
tunnel likewise; others excavate in arboreal ant-
nests. Others, again, are content with dry tree-
spouts. None of them belongs to the Pugwallers’
I nion. Anticipating ' other critics, the mound-
builders arc also excluded.
“Bad Australian”: Back in the late 70's
or early ’Bo’s Lieut.-Colonel Rudeclndo Ibazeta, who
was in charge of exploratory work and “pacification”
of the Rio -Bennejo territory, Argentina, planted
eight white “moscatel” vine cuttings around his hut
at the old Soormiento fort. The cuttings were
brought from Salta, and in the third year bore
fruit, and for several years after yielded crops of
fully-matured grapes in June and December of each
yijar. This phenomenon gave rise to much specula-
tion and controversy at the time, but the reason for
the extraordinary occurrence was never satisfactorily
■ explained. It is vouched for by several officers of
the old 10th Regiment of cavalry and Colonel Don
Juan Sola, who was at that time Governor of the
province of Salta.
“Hay” : Wliat is euro meat (B. 17/5/H7) ?
It is the flesh of the nail-tailed kangaroo, also known
as the euro. The animal is a small dark-brown
kanga with a tail like any other ’roo’s except that
the end of it is hairless and tapers off to a couple
of inches of hard, bony substance. Euros used to
be fairly plentiful in the Gawler Ranges, in the far
north of South Aus. I don't think the meat tastes
as good as the flesh of the blue or red-plain hoppers.
The hide is remarkably tough, and was much prized
by old-time bushinen for making bootlaces and
surcingles. Come to think of it, I’ve never seen a
nail-tailed ’roo in any of our zoos.
“Alfonso”: “Ossian’’ mentions the rifle-
fisli and wants to know" if it has other addresses
than N. Bananaland (B. 2-l7f>/’l7). Well, I don’t
know, but a peculiar fish that T met at Botany. Bay
(Sydney) might- be its cousin. 1 had just hauled
him to the surface and got a glimpse of Ins head
when ho discharged a stream of water which caught
me in the face. I was momentarily blinded and let
go the line to rub my eyes. During the interval he
'made a dive and escaped from (he hook. 1 asked
two fishermen about it and one called my assailant
a “Squib,” while the other held that he was a
“Squirt.” I personally put him down as a cow.
lias this marine fire-brigade hosed any other fisher-
man'?
“.Titcko” : I know a cooky who has worked
out a way of getting back on the blowfly. Anyhow,
he claims that since adopting the dodge no flies
have been found on his property. Bunny is skinned
and tin- meat tossed into a kerosene-tin until it
becomes fairly ripe. A pound of arsenic is then
boiled in five gallons of water (washing soda ensur-
ing dissolution), and the mixture is poured on the
rabbit flesh. The flies simply rush it, scrambling
madly on the wire netting placed over the can to
keep the birds from suicide. Cocky reckons tiiat
even when the tins are freely scattered over the
landscape late-arriving- customers can’t get right
down to the feast and have to use straws. The
method is cheap, clean and decisive.
ODIOUS DEDUCTION.
“Hullo. Henpeck! Glad to see your wife has recovered' from her illness!"
“Mimosa” : An inquirer recently asked for
a ’cure for a horse that devoured his droppings. Try
this. Prepare him on bran-mashes for two days; then
give a. drench of a wineglass of turpentine. If this
has not the desired effect, pour a very small quantity
of Stockholm tar over the droppings.
ONE VIRTUE.
SHE: “ When you proposed to me you said you were not worthy of me."
HE: "Well, what of it?"
SHE: “ Nothing. Only I will say for you that. whatever else you were, you were no liar."
“Montalex”: The Queensland rifie-fiab
(B. 25/4/’l7) is the Australian representative of the
genus Tozotes. The largest species, Toxotcs jacula-
tor, I have often watched in Malaysian rivers, and,
though I have never seen it “shoot flying,” as
described by “Ossian,” I have marvelled at the cer-
tainty with which it would bring down an insect
perched on a leaf or a grass-blade as much as 30in.
above the surface. The missile is a tiny water-
drop, how projected I could not discover. A re-
markable fact is that the fish instinctively makes the
necessary allowance for refraction. Light-rays pass-
ing from air into water are deflected in such a way
that aim must be taken at a spot considerably below
the apparent position of the mark, just as a man,
shooting at a fish in water, requires to aim at a
spot nearer to him than the optical location of the
fish.
“De Oriel'’: The whole animal republic
(bar cats) at last recognises the mouse as its own
particular Him and is working double shifts to cal
him. I have seen the little pests attacked by grey-
hounds, ferrets and pigs. The pigs root them out
of the burrows and chase them, but never catch any.
By day-, dogs, hawks, ’hurras, fowls and magpies
patrol the wheat stacks, and at nightfall they arc
relieved by owls, mopokes, night hawks and other
toilers. In one night at Swan Hill (Vie.) my boots
were eaten down to sandals and my hat converted
into a circular saw. While I was still swearing I
discovered a couple of mice canoodling in my coat
pocket.
“Leo Lear" : Regarding butcher-birds (11.
-26/4;" 17), “E.S.S.” states that the common species
is our finest singer. He is good, no doubt, but his
cousin, the larger black-throated butcher, can beat
him. The big fellow is not so common, except on
the East Coast. Here both species can be heard
together, and the clear flute notes of the black-
throated one silences all other warblers. This was
the opinion of an English bird admirer who was
with me in Bananaland, and who was prejudiced in
favor of the skylark, blackbird, etc.
* * * *
“Whare”: Among our singers one silver-
throated musician is often overlooked, viz., tin-
native canary or white-throated flyeater. Possibly it
is Because the bird is a tree-top haunter that it is
seldom observed. It is capable of brief floods of
high-pitched, trilling melody, resembling that of its
caged namesake, but less sustained. I have met with
it only twice in southern N. S. Wales, whereas the
brown flyeater is common in most coastal gullies.
Browny is migratory in habit. Coloring, light grey-
brown above, throat white, and underparts pale
yellow. It is not unlike the familiar yelldw-belly 01-
yellow-tailed tit-warbler, and belongs to the same
family. Another occasional vocalist is the singing
honeyeater, but for sustained melody give me a
choir of Monaro magpies lined up on a fence just as
morning begins to interfere with night's business
and the sun is sparkling over an inch or so of frost.
“Wal”: Balolo is not peculiar to Fiji
and the other groups of islands in the
Pacific. In the Trobriand Group, near Papua,
the. worm is collected in wholesale orders
every November, the natives knowing the .time
to a. day when to expect the little wriggler.
Apparently, it is a denizen of the coral, though what
it is and how it lives I cannot say. The worm is a
great delicacy with the islanders, who gorge them-
selves ill at every opportunity. They- make it
into cakes with cocoanut and roast it on the coals.
Being a good and rare food it is taboo to the young
people, and would convert them into sharks and sea
snakes if they- ate it. For guile the old-man Papuan
could give Bret Harte’s heathen Chinee a point or
two.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE CASUAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill was an ordinary country chap,
Born and reared on a dairy farm.
Six foot two, had a slouching gait,
Steady- eye, and a brawny arm.
Worked like a slave till he turned eighteen,
Then got tired of the weary drag,
Rose one morning before the rest,
Snatched a blanket and rolled a swag.
Trudged away on the western tracks,
Looking for labor of any sort;
not employed as a rouseabout;
Easy job, and the hours were short.
Followed the shearing- round for years.
Starting first on the Darling Downs,
Shed to shed, and the cheques lie earned
Blewed ’em up in the Outback towns.
Met his brother one day in Cairns,
Four years after he’d left his home.
Torn was like him in every way—
One of the casual chaps that roam.
Worked as partners for just a month;
Tom went pearling around the Strait.
Bill had heard of a steady job,
Took on ploughing at Bogan Gate.
Ten, years later the war broke out;
Bill had a clearing contract then ;
Heard the call and he came from Parkes,
Passed to, camp with the other men.
Splendid stamp of a soldier, In:
Soon advanced till he earned a stripe,
Worked his men like he’d worked himself;
Reached the Front when the time was ripe,
la a charge was shot through his sun-tunned cheek.
Bound tlie wound with a bit of shirt,
Told his mate, with a twisted grin,
“The blaiiky- thing didn’t blank well hurl."
Stabbed and shot till his strength was done,
Stumbled back down the battered hill.
“Did you kill the cow?” was a question asked.
“Me tally is twenty,” gritted Bill.
Bill, as the weary months went on,
And trenches seemed like a million hells,
Stuck it out, thought the job was good,
Was never disturbed by the shrieking shells.
Drifting round he was sure to find
Chaps he’d worked with in former days;
They’d sit and yarn of the times they’d had,
Of shearing cheques, or the big mine “pays.”
One day in a company tramping by
To the front-line trench and its seething hell,
Without a c-arc for the rifle cracks,
A reckless laugh for a whining shell,
Was Torn, the brother fie hadn’t seen
For fifteen years. ’Twas the hand of Fate
That threw them thus together again
In the midst of a chaos of blood and hate.
Bill, near naked, his wounds half healed.
AVas squatting down on a blood-stained rock
Driving spikes in a broken boot
With the end of a shattered rifle-stock.
“ ’Struth, Bill! Wotcher doin’ in France?”
Said Tom, as his mates went marching by.
•Bill waved his hand, and he gave a grin.
“Aw, mendin’ a boot,” was his calm reply.
N.s.w.
GORDON BENNETT.


Even in
These
Days
gse
is all You Need Pay
for a MURDOCH
Suit-to-Measure.
p
Call and inspect these Suitings, or
write for pa'terns to-day.
Other prices for
Murdoeh-to-
measure Suits,
70/-, 84/-, 95/-
No use saying it can't be done. \\ e get over that
difficulty by doing it. Hove? Well, now that
you’re interested, let us explain that we have
Stacks of Smart
Suitings from
which to Choose.
We took time by the forelock and got in
early, and in spite of a depleted market
we secured big stocks. .
Now it's your turn to follow our example
and
Get in Early with Your Order.
Though we’ve no shortagenow, there is every
likelihood of importations being cut out
altogether. Be wise—order Suits for present
and future needs. We guarantee satisfaction
or refund your money.
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch's in Park Street, Limited.
Sydney.
Please forward patterns of suitings at
the Suit-to-m ensure with tape and
setf-measurement form.
NAME .. .
. \ DURESS
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney
tt
COMPLETE OUTFITTERS FOR MEN AND BOYS.”
HOTELKEEPERS!
I V
When you taste the quality of Soda made
with the Victory Bar Arm. you marvel at
its sparkling brilliancy, clean flavor, ancl
thorough saturation. Drawn ice-cold on
draught; better than high-priced bottled
soda.
LEMONADE & DUNDEE ALE, of deliri-
ously clean flavor. No sign of any twang,
as present with other makes of machines.
OUR LATENT WATER-FLU SI UNO
SYSTEM enables all pipes io he thor-
oughly flooded every night by simply turn-
ing on a tap. We absolutely guarantee
Lemonade and Gingerale free from objec-
tionable taste and smell.
sIMI’LICITY. —THE VI(T<)HY is the
result of years of experience and the
adaptation of the best Mechanical skill.
We have done away with all springs com-
ing in contact with Soda or Syrup.
We show our confidence in this machine
by covering same with a written guarantee
PKICE.—Our large factory organisation enables mto offer this leading
Bar Arm at a lower price than any competitor.
On receipt of Postcard we will mail you full particulars.
Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.
219 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Queensland Agents: J. W. Painter Ltd., Cork Manufacturers and Importers,
Grey Street, South Brisbane.
Adelaide: Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street.
Perth: A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street.
New Zealand: Bannatyne & Hunter,‘Ltd., Wakefield* Allen Streets. Wellington
PHONOGRAPH
X ever before has it been possible to manufacture
a Phonograph at anywhere near the price to
approach The Stewart Master Phonograph in
quality of music, in volume, in tone, richness and
beauty. Only the great Stewart Factory facilities
and perfected organisation make possible such a
manufacturing feat.
amili)
or
mm iii!
J
9
boVGsOld'SwwtSo
rrr
Iff
ft/
The Price
is but
45/-
•r- r
ft
THE MASTER DISC
PHONOGRAPH,
45
SPECIAL FEATURES
EQUIPPED WITH THE STEWART UNIVERSAL REPRODUCER.
Plays Any Type of Disc Record, Any Size, Any Make, Any Price.
HAS STEWART INSTANTANEOUS TIITE CONTROL.
Fitted with Automatic Needle Stop, which Prevents Gouging Records.
UNPROVED STEWART SILENT MOTOR.
The perfectly-designed tone-arm and scientifically-correct sound-chamber give
a clear, life-like reproduction. Its motor is remarkably quiet and smooth-
running. The case is nicely finished in a rich verde green—the color so
often used on costly clocks and fine vases. It will prove an ornament in any
position you might place it. The whole outfit weighs but 81b., and can be placed
on any table, chair or other convenient position. It can be taaen with you in
the motor-car, motor-boat or other conveyance, and will prove a great com-
panion either for outdoor or indoor entertainment.
The Stewart Disc Phonograph can be secured from any Music Dealer or Talk-
ing-machine Stores.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS:
dr
1
31
E 5
*5
Wills & Paton Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
King & King Limited, Brisbane.
Jackson & Macdonald, Sydney.
Cornell Limited, Adelaide.
Wills & Co., Launceston.


Martin s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladiec recommend them. Be sure
jou get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un- '
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-3GO-G COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E: S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELE STREET, ADELAIDE.
rgs
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
The most effertive and
pleasing' Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & C0.,-63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P, MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
a
iff
m
ca,'
HOW TO CURE CHRONIC INSOMNIA.
WELL-KNOWN SOLICITOR PROVES
NEW THEORY CORRECT.
A well-known, city solicitor, while reading
the recent pnblication of the remarkable
nerve-building and strength-increasing pro-
perties of bitro-phosphate, became interested
in the claims made by several eminent
authorities that bitro-phosphate, being a
valuable remedy for most nervous disorders,
would be equally effective in the treatment of
insomnia and all other troubles due to
worry, nerve strain and decreased nervous
energy. Having suffered for m,any years
from persistent insomnia he decided* to give
it a trial, and he now writes: “I am more
than pleased with the result. It is a great
relief to find that I can now get at least 50
per cent, more sleep than I could before
taking bitro-phosphate. My wife has also
derived much benefit from a similar course.”
Owing to the wide interest shown by profes-
sional men, bitro-phosphate is now readily
procurable from all chemists in 5-grain tab-
lets, one of which should be taken with each
meal. As a nerve- and strength-builder and
health-restorer it is of the greatest value-
and doubtless vastly superior to, as well as
cheaper than, patent foods or dangerous
drugs.— Advt.
“Werrimee”: Referring to an item in
explorer McKinlay’s bill of fare, to wit, “some
baked roots commandeered from aboriginal ovens,
which were voted first rate’' (B. 17/5/’l7), “H.”
says these were probably nardoo. But nardoo, the
breadfruit of the Central blacks, which formed the
last food of Burke and Wills on Koopa Creek, is a
seed, or, more correctly, spore. It is produced
abundantly by a small flowerless plant ( Marsillca )
which grows on the flooded areas of inland rivers
and creeks. The fleshy foliage somewhat resembles
trefoil, or clover. The seed is oval in shape, very
hard and about the size of a split pea. The blacks
grind it between two stones and make damper with
the flour.
* * * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: Fiji for its size has
as many imported troubles as Australia. Johnstone and
Para grasses are pests to reckon with in sugar produc-
tion in western Fiji. Their amazing root-spread has
so far made eradication impossible. The sugar-cane
is heir to a variety of ills. The borer is the most
destructive. Boring from the roots up through the
centre of the cane, this white-yellow grub causes
an annual loss of about £2OO to average-sized
(6-7000 ton) cane plantations. On Spreckels's plan-
tations at Hawaii the borer was for years very detri-
mental. Finally a fly, a natural enemy of the borer,
was introduced with excellent results. The C.S.R.
Co., in entomology, at least, working hand in hand
with the big American firm, introduced the fly to
its Fiji plantations. But there it has proved a fail-
ure and is dying out. It met in Fiji one of its
enemies, a native spider, which lustily attacks the
fly for food. Then there is the wire worm, well known
to Australian vegetable-growers. And there is yellow
leaf and Fiji disease. The latter affects cane grown
on the fat and moist lands along the coast. The
leaves on affected cane wither, take on a rusty
appearance, split and curl up, and the plant dies.
The only remedy is to use seed-cane from the poorer
and lighter soils of the upland plantations, where
Fiji disease is rarely present. Some importations to
combat sugar-cane pests have in their turn become
inimical to planters without seriously interfering with
their intended victims. Of these the wasp is now
troublesome and has to be fought. Building in the
tall grass on the roads it frequently attacks and seri-
ously stings coolies and other wayfarers, and on the
plantation list of expenses for “Eradication of
Pests the wasp has his place. So has the pig, which
the Fijians are paid to hunt with dogs. And there
are William and Nanny goats. The mongoose, trans-
ferred from India, is frequently seen skipping across
the plantation roads. Without disdaining his in-
tended diet of rats and mice,- the mongoose has
developed a partiality for poultry, and under his
PURE SUPERFLUOUSNESS.
SOBER TRAVELLER: “Any pubs along this
road, mate?”
BOOZED BILL : “Blue me, where'd yer think
I got me load? From a hareoplane!”
unceasing foraging the useful native birds are
disappearing. The Indian minah, having done
undoubted service in keeping down grasshoppers, now
turns to other articles of diet. I have at Ba and
at far Tavua seen • minahs pick open and eat ripe
guavas. Flocks of minahs follow the plough through
the canefields devouring earthworms, which would be
much better left in the soil. Finally, in the eastern
part are the sensitive plant and Hosier's curse, a
vegetable of the lantana variety; and everywhere
there is the unpaid politician working strenuously
for his own ends.
OFF.
WAITRESS (irritable): "Well, wot d'yer want?”
DINER (also) : “Politeness, for a start."
WAITRESS: “Stick to the menu."
“Wart”: In Tasmania we have half a
dozen species of sundew. I don't know that most of
them differ from the mainland varieties, but one
little chap, Drosera pygmcea, can be completely cov-
ered by a sixpence. It is bright red, and grows close
to the g|r°und. Has any Abo. ever tried to fool a
sundew with a piece of pebble or stick? The plant
takes no notice whatever of it, but place a piece of
raw meat on the leaf and every hair within reach
immediately bends in towards it. How does the
plant know the differ-
ence? There is another
carnivorous weed in
Tassy known as the but-
terfly plant. It is usually
taken for an orchid. The
flowers are generally a
pair at the top of a long
slender stalk, purple or
white, and somewhat re-
sembling a butterfly. It
grows in swampy ground,
and the leaves are small,
narrow and green, only
one or two close to the
ground. Sometimes the
vegetable grows in water,
and the leaves trail into
long strings, which have
numerous- little colored
pouches on them. The
pouches, have a mouth
which allows an insect to
enter, but provides no re-
turn passage. Once in-
side, the gastric juices
soon dissolve the victim.
Someone asked why the
maggots of certain horse-
flies are not dissolved by
the gastric juices of the
Albany plant. The reason
is that all living cells
seem to be protected
against gastric juices. If this were not so, a stomach
would proceed to digest itself, which indeed it does
immediately after death.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: Murri is a patient soul
when in pursuit of an elusive .dinner. Sometimes he
is seen, with spear half-poised, creeping stealthily
along the edge of a lagoon; and he may creep
along for miles befpk>|afiything happens. Then sud-
denly the spear is plunged into the shallows, and in
a moment, impaled on the point of it, a big wrig-
gling eel is thrown out on to the grass. At other
times he stands in the shallows at night, holding a
club in one hand and A light in the other. Like the
waiting crane, he remains motionless for perhaps over
an hour. The light attracts the fish, Murri himself
being part of the night; and when a big inquisitive
mullet swims within reach, the club descends with
great vim and promptness.
“O.S.II.”: llow’s this for a novel variation
of the usual £1 or seven days? The locality was a
largo railway-construction camp, and pavdav was
accompanied by the usual orgy. So at last a local
branch of the law was set up. There was no lock-up,
but that did not worry our ingenious John Hop. He
had plenty of handcuffs and a convenient wire fence
with No. 10 wire and 18ft. panels. The drunk and
disorderly had one bracelet fixed to his wrist and the
other to a wire—the height of the wire depending
on the degree of soddenness. The drunk had to
parade up and down the panel until the Law decided
that he had meditated sufficiently on the evils of his
way.
* * * *
“11.V.E.’ : I think the only new Australian
mammal discovered within the last decade or so is
the. naliodeo (Phascologale blighi) of Westralia, but
it is rare and very local in habit, having only been
found in the country east of the Pilbarra goldfield
and towards the Maedonnell Ranges., The nallodee
lives in burrows like those of rabbits, and resembles
our common native-cat ( Dasyurus ) in both appear-
and smell. In coloring the beast is light yellowish-
biown, with - white belly and a nose tipped with
lemon-yellow, while the tail ends in a brush. ■ The
animals were dug out of their burrows by an explor-
ing party—clean out of food excepting for some bully
beef, mouldy cheese, tinned potatoes and a few pounds
of flour—in the hope of finding rabbits; but though
e natives are said to relish nallodees they were too
strong for the white man’s stomach. Nearly a dozen
nallodees were subsequently unearthed from different
burrows, nine of which were brought in a bag to the
nearest seaport. I saw and handled a couple which
were brought on to Sydney and confined in a wire-
netted enclosure near Balmoral Beach. The beasts
however, burrowed out of their pen and escaped, and
were never seen again. Like those of the native cat,
the naked young of the nallodee are usually found
clinging to its back, and are probably born after the
fashion of other marsupials.
“Dac” : “James E. D.” (B. 17/5/’l7) is a
newehum all right. Doesn’t he know that the magpie-
lark and the peewit are one and the same? Also
“'Melos ’ (same issue) tells us of white ants’ nests
being used as barnfloors and in building ovens, etc. I
have lived in the bush all my life, and have yet to
find the white ants’ nest that could be used for these
purposes. But there is another ant whose big creamy-
colored nest is found thus extremely useful.
* * * *
The Immature Male”: The Billjims of
the nth Light Horse wear a band of ’possum fur
around their hats. One of these “Fight-On-Fight-
Evers” was on town leave recently when he noticed
a couple of Tommies following him about and
staring persistently at his cady. Billj. halted and
cleared for action. “Whadthehell are you starin’
at f ’ lie demanded. “Well, it's lark this, choom,”
replied one of Kitchener’s army. “Jock ’eflNtells
me as ’ow that’s er snike-skin yuv got rhand yer ’at
....an’ Hi’ve never seen a snike afore, choom!’’
* * * *
“11.V.E.”: Birds breed occasionally in
strange places. I have found the long, pendant nest
of the rock-warbler, or rock pipit, hung from beams
in the shafts of abandoned coal-mines near Mitta-
gong (N?S.W.). To get at the nests it was usually
a case of wading waist-deep through black, ice-cold
water. This plump, rusty-brown singer was at one
time a dweller in the freestone cliffs about Port
Jackson. Lewin in his “Birds of N. S. Wales”
described the bird, X think, over 80 years ago, and
of course it did not escape the artistic attentions qf
the great Gould at a later time. It is nowhere
common, but I have met with it occasionally on
the South Coast. Lichen and mosses cleverly inter-
woven with fine root-fibres form the chief nesting
material. The eggs are white. Many other birds
are eccentric in the choice of a lodging. A couple
of wagtails (black fantail flycatchers) 'fitted their
cup-nest neatly into the ring left for the handle
between the blades of a mattock which hung in an
outhouse, while a pair of tit-warblers (tom-tits)
laid out their egg-factory in the meshes of a fishing-
net hung to dry.
» # * *
“Harold L.”: Wo’ve had stories of close
calls—mostly stories of how we missed what we
deserved. Here’s one of the amazing way in which
a man got what was coming to him. On board the
Carlyle, one of the Philadelphia and Reading Rail-
road’s tugboats, we were running two lighters of
railroad cars across the Delaware River from Port
Richmond, and the combination of darkness, fog and
current kept the two Dago deckhands and myself
pretty busy. When we were half-way across one of
the for’ard lines carried away, and No. 2 lighter
swung outward against the stream. In the midst of
the scurry Ferrato, the elder Dago, gave vent to an
appalling curse and yelled out in answer to me that
Zovetti, the swine, had killed him. After we had
made all fast again I learned that whilst Ferrato
was taking in the slack round the bitts, Zovetti had
suddenly and deliberately jerked his elbow upwards
from behind. Thirty seconds later the skipper was
bandaging up Ferrato’s right hand, from which four
fingers had been ripped by the wire. Ten minutes
afterwards the receiving wharf materialised out of
the gloom, and the skipper bellowed for fenders.
BACK FROM THE FRONT (BAR).
“Hintocksh — (hie) — cated, be jiggered!
Nothin' of the short! Shell-shocked
worm marra wi' me (hie). Shim'ly
shell-shock. Unnershtan'? Just shell-
shock, shee!"
Zovetti rushed past me with a cork fender, holding
it over the rail ready to lower. A heavy body
splashed into the water alongside, and the next in-
stant a loud scream and the crash of the tug against
the wharf merged together. We recovered the broken
thing with a boathook and laid it out on a tar-
paulin. When the investigating lantern. flung its
light along the planking we saw that four mangled
fingers, upon which a boot had slipped, lay in the
midst of an elongated bloody smear which pointed to
the rail.
THE INGRATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McGill had got the job to do—
’Twas cleaning out old Hogan’s dam—
A painful disillusion to
Jim Hartigan, who took the view
That for such jobs from here to Yam
He was supreme, the Great I Am.
At Billy Crowe’s, with fearsome noise,
And o’er the usual pot of swill,
Jim started out to tell the boys
How base ingratitude annoys
A decent bloke, and just how ill
Such conduct came from Dave McGill. "
“Ungrateful sow he is! You know
I ain’t a one to stir up strife,
But I will pay him what I owe
If that means twenty years to go.
I'm blinded sorry, spare me life,
I ever ran off with his wife!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


box of State Express Cigarettes
exemplifies tbe pride of the expert
in evolving a Cigarette worthy of the
highest in the land.
Each new smoker, as the delights of
this superb cigarette are revealed to
him, becomes an immediate convert to
its pleasures.
SWTE SPRKS
CIGARETTES
are "something different.”
"That’s the reason.”
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
lO for 6d.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
m
ae
S 3
St-
&
3
a*
MOPW
r
✓s
5
I_J
isto
M
%
■A
IU
.Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
f$&C J St>U*6&
QCcL Ceun&u/*


School Children
are very liable to catch
cold. They have to
go in all weathers —
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from infection —especially when epidemics of
Whooping Gough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can he always FREE
of ANXIETY if they have a bottle of
Heames
Bronchitis
= Cure =
in the house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a “cold” will at*once “nip in the
hud” what might otherwise prove to be a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up —the rest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
, ./l f
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney. N.S.W.i Wellington, N.Z.
2/6
M’
m
m
1L
v
•'US
\
■Vn^?
12
s
4/6
Double
Size
“J.F.IL” (London) : As Australia hasn't
been consumed iu an avenging fire for its
hardihood in playing "Damaged Goods,” a
syndicate of moral reformers lias planked
down the funds necessary for the produc-
tion of the venereal-disease drama at St.
Martin’s Theatre, London, and the subse-
quent touring of the provincial centres. The
play was originally refused a license by the
Lord Chamberlain as absolutely impossible
for public production; but as the hidden
plague has been brought into hideous prom-
inence by the war. the Chamberlain’s depart-
ment has reversed its decision, and given
every facility for the production of a play
calculated to stay the scourge and dissipate
the fatal ignorance that is so prevalent on
the subject. A crowded and fashionable
Saturday-night audience acclaimed the first
public performance in London, and subse-
quent performances have given every indica-
tion that the philanthropic syndicate will
not lose any money by the crusade.
“Penden” ; Others besides vaudevillains got
their first show at Melbourne Temperance
hall. Ben Clark started there and landed
in London, where he was chief baritone in
a leading choir of 80. lie never returned to
Australia. Billy, Fred, Harry, Frank, Len
and Arthur Ilailes also started at the
“Temp.,” and at least three of the sextette
topped important bills later on.
“I>. J.”: Howard Carr, who used to pilot
a J.C.W. orchestra, and married Trixie
Tracy, one of The Bulletin’s Melbourne
chatterers, is a person of importance in the
London theatrical world nowadays, lie has
just completed the orchestration of a new
revue, “Hanky Panky,” the music whereof
is by Max Darewski. Also, he figures in a
select group, including actress Phyllis Dare,
photographed in a recent number of the
Sketch, and this is a sort of hallmark for
anybody connected with the theatre.
Martin Simonson left an Australian son
who is now landlord of tin 1 Hotel Blue
Mountain,,at Lawson (N.S.W.).
“Vic.”: Smythe’s financial trump card
was Charles Clark, who had been imported
for the Baptist Church in Albert-street, East
Melbourne. Clark had magnificent rhetoric
set off by a clarion voice. He had no power
of characterisation, but with his marvellous
voice would have been eminent on the stage,
lie attracted much attention by a lecture
on “Pickwick” in his church, and another
on “Christmas” at the Melbourne Opera
House. These fetched the Much Travelled
along with his cheque-book. Clark’s lec-
tures were delivered without a note, but
every word was carefully committed to
memory. “Westminster Abbey” was his
best effort, and decidedly the finest lecture
ever heard in Australia.
“Glen II.”: In “Three Twins” the gay
young chorus men who disport themselves in
tennis attire in the first act are seen in the
second as the numerous attendants at a
private lunatic asylum, through which the
female chorus wanders aimlessly, although
whether its members are intended to be in-
mates or visitors is not clear. I am now
waiting for a musical comedy, “The Belle
of the Sanatorium.” The chief scene will
be laid in a hospital for incurables, and a
chorus of pale young men and nice-looking
girls will dance and warble ragtime while
waiting for death. The idea is sure to
appeal to some “producer,” since apprecia-
tion of such scenes is merely a matter of
lack of taste.
“De Oriel” : Thanks, to “voluntary enlist
nient” Pyramid (Vic.) has already had three
free picture shows —“Life in the A.1.F.,”
“Why Britain Went to War” and another
of the same sort. They attracted no re-
cruits. The operators (civilians, of course)
draw £l5 to £lB a week, and find the pro-
jector and light. The bills say “No Chil-
dren Admitted” ; but the kids swarm in and
have a good feed of Belgian atrocities.
“Heck”: The Nhill (Vic.) movie which
drew an avenger on to the stage (B.
17/5/’l7) has a mate. At Matong (N.S.W.)
an ancient bloke came into town, spefft liis
month’s pay in the usual way, and then
rolled along to a travelling cinema, where
he managed to keep his seat until the calico
showed a brawl. “A fight!” yelled the old
bushman. rising, and then, as two attacked
the third, “No two on to one!” Throwing
off his coat lie bounded over the seats on to
the platform and hurled his fists into the
calico ghosts.
Francie Adler, who wisely married a show
manager, is still booming at the Metropolitan
Opera House, New York, as “Madame”
Frances Alda. Her brother, Albie, who used
to sit by her side in her dogcart as she drove
down Collins-street, nowadays trades infill
onza tonics and scented soaps in a Melbourne
pharmacy.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Copabella” : Of all “unsympathetic” sub-
stances Milestone road-metal seems the least
likely to yield “wool.” Yet this is one of the
genuine war-industries. The making of an
incombustible, non-conducting “packing” for
engines, steam-pipes, ice-cliests. etc., from
unlikely and inexpensive materials has been
successfully done in scientific Germany for
some years. Australia, though it has had
any amount of material, has always relied
on overseas asbestos for insulating pur-
poses. With the war-stoppage of supplies,
plus the poor quality of the sophisticated
asbestos that was about the only kind pro-
curable, the local tub had to seek some way
of standing upon its own bottom. It was a
Yankee firm that found it, and now about
35 men are busy turning out the “Milestone
wool.” The “wool” in texture is like a
somewhat harsh wadding, pure white, of a
“staple” running up to one inch, and having
through it the glisten of spun glass. It will
“tease” out, and is soft and mouldable in
the hands. It is readily adaptable for
“packing,” and it will make up into sheets
like asbestos. Fire has no effect on it. . The
“wool” is made at Yarraville, Melbourne,
and the basis of it is said to he ordinary
Footscray basalt, combined with freestone,
limestone, and, no doubt, secret ingredients.
In the manufacturing process the component
rocks are made fluid by heat, and a strong
head of steam is blown through the mixture.
The Vic. Bailway Commissioners have
made a success of one of their little schemes
for raising the wind. Three months ago
they began the hooking of seats on the Syd-
ney and Adelaide expresses at a shilling a
time. Since then over 20 per cent, of the
claims have been pegged in advance. In
some instances the figure has been as high
as 38 per cent.; and only in three weeks has
the catch fallen below 1000.
Springlmnk station, near Burra (S.A.),
owned by W. 11. Stevenson, an Adelaide
jeweller, and in the market through the
enlistment of both his sons who had been
working it, has been bought by the State
Government, which will cut up the 4050
acres into convenient blocks for smaller
holders. Springbank claims to have aver-
aged for the last nine years—even with the
awful 1914 thrown in—2o bushels of wheat
to the acre, a big figure for South Aus.
“Agricola”: Superphosphate may suit the
wheat lands of S. Aus. just: as it suits the
Wimmora ( Vic.) ; but it re-acts like strong
drink on most of Southern Vic. It seems to
boost up a crop or two, and then there is
a sad “morning aft< r” of sorrel and useless
grasses. Boor crops result if cropping is
continued with super. Absence of Hme is the
trouble, and the increase of acidity prevents
the growing of wheat. The use of the raw
rock phosphate of lime is advocated for these
sour lands, and especially for top-dressing pas-
tures where paralysis occurs among the stock.
The immense deposits of tri-caleic phosphate
in S. Australia are just what we want
spread out fine over our grass lands. This
suggestion should appeal to S. Australians,
as their stuff is not equal to the Pacific
Island rock for making super. Brought to
Portland it would be fairly handy to us at
Hamilton, and the enhanced value would be
much more than £1 per acre.
“Mirrool” : Even- if the country stands, as
it should, the loss of Government-purchased
wheat in the stacks, Cocky will carry quite a
big enough burden on account of the mice
plague. In the first place, he has lost tens
of thousands of bags of seed wheat. Worse
still, a good deal of it has been lost after it
has been drilled in. In the early part of the
winter especially, mice were in the paddocks
in millions and burrowed for the grain as
soon as it was planted. Many farmers got'
tired of wasting wheat that way, and there
will in consequence be tens of thousands ot
acres less under crop this year than would
otherwise have been the case; and on tens ot
thousands more acres the crop must be seri-
ously affected by the destruction of grain
after it has been planted. On top of that
Cocky finds his haystacks spoiled and his
chaffbags riddled. The former is a very seri-
ous loss. Last year, remembering the awful
time he had in the previous summer. Cocky
cut a reserve supply of hay, as he had been
advised to do a thousand times by all the
city cockies. Now he finds the hay so pol-
luted that his working horses won’t touch it,
and he has to dive into his pocket to pay for
molasses or something to mix with the stink-
ing chaff.
“P.X.”; They don’t need Thrift weeks
up in the N. S. Wales Cow Country. Lately
an Exalted Person was shown through those
parts by the local member. At one pub
where he camped for a night or so the
boarders were staggered to find sanitary
paper in the proper place for it. Then the
Exalted Person moved on; and the paper
was promptly put away until the next visit
of State.
“Harrison O.”: In remarking (B.
24/5/’l7) that “about 1)0 per cent, of pros-
titutes are such from choice and inclination
—inborn sexual perversity,” “Nil” is guilty
of a free and easy statement opposed to
ascertained fact. In his “History of Prosti-
tution” Sanger mentions that of 2000 cases
inquired into, only 513 appeared to have
taken to the profession from inclination.
Drunkenness was the cause in a large num-
ber of cases, others were persuaded to enter
the business by persons already in it, 307
had drifted into it after having been seduced,
and 525 were driven there by destitution.
Professor Woods Hutchinson, a noted
authority, reckons that only 5.(1 per cent, of
the sisterhood owe their habitual frailty to
“primary sexual appetite,” whereas 11.3 per
cent, are “the innocent victims of seduc-
tion.” Havelock Ellis, in his “Studies in
the Psychology of Sex,” quotes Ferriani, an
Italian authority, who classified 10,422 in-
scribed prostitutes and found that 3646 had
been either seduced or cajoled by lovers or
husbands into becoming harlots, 698 entered
the profession through “love of luxury,” and
in the remaining cases economic pressure in
one form or another was the chief factor.
Merrick, who compiled data relating to
16,000 promiscuous Juliets, says that in
very few cases was “sexual desire” the
motive for their entry into the business. It
all goes to support Lombroso, who makes a
strong point of the “sexual frigidity” of
prostitutes.
* # * #
“Canuck” : Copper, lead and tin have all
come under Government regulation, but
iron has been left alone. Thousands of
tons are annually ■ used in the Common-
wealth, and a man could buy a shipload
without arousing a suspicion that he was
on a gamble. Before the war it cost about
£l7 10s. a ton, a year ago £3O. To-day the
rate is £7O odd, and as supplies must
decrease as long as the war lasts and can-
not increase greatly for a couple of years
thereafter, it is a good spec, even at that
appalling figure. Some —er —investors have
already made a pile out of the article, and
there is one man in Melbourne who sold a
parcel long ago at £26, bought it back at
£3B 10s„ resold at £46 15s. and lately re-
bought most of it at £55. Except the few
tons that have gone into consumption this
lot'has never been handled by any but the
original owner, and still lies in cases in the
store in Melbourne to which it was taken
from the wharf. The owner reckons to
unload once more, and finally, when it
touches £9O. But what a ghastly game it
all appears when one remembers that, but
for the treachery of political frauds, Aus-
tralia would now be producing every sheet
and bar of iron she needs, and would also
be easing poor old Bull’s burden by export-
ing iron in her own ships.
• * * *
“1.4. U.”: “Double It” can take his high-
est priced dairy cow out of the ring (B.
24/5/T7). I lead in the roan heifer (spring-
ing) sold by O’Donnell and Stumbles at
Wollongong (N.S.W.) on February 24. This
proud beast realised in open bidding £3B.
¥■ ' * * *
“F.C.” : A friend of mine was driving a
load of honest vegetables to market the other
morning, when a quiet, stranger ranged
alongside and remarked that my friend was
driving a nice stamp of horse. The vege-
table charioteer admitted it. The stranger
said—looking sideways at the horse—that
he had always found old Prince a reliable
animal, and would be glad if the other
would hand him back without further bother.
Then the argument started ; and the end of
it was that my friend and several other
innocent purchasers of stolen horses found
they had to return the beasts and pocket
their losses. The thief was handed two
years’ hard ; but that was no consolation to
them. I am now wondering why the book-
maker who accepts great wads of the
embezzler’s money is never asked to return
the loot to the rightful owners.
* * * *
“Main”: The Commonwealth Line seems
determined to employ as few Australians as
possible. The captain referred to by
“Mizzen” (B. 19/10/T6) resigned in Lon-
don, and the man appointed to the vacancy
is not an Australian, or even a member of
the Merchant Service Guild of Australasia.
An officer and employee of the Line with
both those qualifications was available in
London at the time and was passed oyer, as
was another officer of lower rank in the
same steamer. Apparently headquarters
are in London, where all appointments and
promotions are to be made, as it is there
that the records of each officer’s service are
kept; and membership of the Australian
M.S.G. or Engineers’ Institute is distinctly
no recommendation.
THE POET’S WILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bush bard to the tvar has gone,
And hence, in endless lays.
Some properties that fitly shone
He’s willed to Olden Days.
The old bark hut that stood for long
A landmark on the rise ;
The wattle bloom and billabong,
The boobook grave and wise :
The dying stockman (sadly missed!),
The curlew’s lonely cry,
The sliprails where the poet kissed
A phantom girl good-bye;
The stockyard gate where cattle push,
And whence lean horsemen turn
To ride away through silent bush
Where campfires,ever burn:
The mopoke that when night descends
Salutes his brother owl ;
The horse-bells tinkling in the bends.
The dingo’s dismal howl;
The stockwhip swinging ’cross the plains,
And thundering down the Bland ;
The quartpot and the hobble-chains,
Also the station brand;
The packhorse jogging through the rack,
Where Western drovers go,
The blokes who blazed the thirsty track
Ahead of Cobb and Co.;
The coo-ee that came ringing far
Whence wilting grasses wave;
The wail in sheoak and belar
Above the swag-man’s grave :
A shanty damsel, plump and fair,
In old Bill’s bullock-dray :
A gleaming woolshed and a pair
Of bowyangs soiled with clay;
V lost soul east ’mid thirst and sand;
The digger’s Christmas cheer;
Some melancholy aspects and
A barrelful of beer.
All these are left to Yesterday ;
The bard is on the track
Of newer things a world away—
I wish that he were back.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
CELESTIAL POWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our manager in general
He is a haughty man. I guess
However long 1 live 1 shall
Remember Ms imperiousness.
He has a fierce and frowning brow,
A horrid, domineering eye
His little company to cow.
Vou ought to come and see just how
We cringe before his awful cry.
The grim stage-manager is worse. ~ *
He drives us almost to despair,
And, oh ! the terror of his curse
Takes all the henna from our hair!
We come and go just as he bids,
We shiver at his mildest growl,
And pros, and supers., men and kids,
In meek submission lift their lids
If only he emits a howl.
But we our moments have. At times
The manager in terror flees,
And sweats as if for all his crimes.
And soft of speech, with knocking knees,
The fell producer stands. Like guns
The leading lady’s thunders jar.
”l'is then we humble little ones
Are happy, for we sec our suns
Revolving dumbly round the star.
VICTORIA.
S. S..


BRIT
sn
THOMSON
L T °
C°
HOUSTON
sssfefes
’"A Vt>
RUGBY
ENGLAND
m
rami
w,
general
ELECTRIC C®
NEW YORK
At
& SS£ ■ ■£§ £&,-<-■ .-*??? •: • .
wmM^'
■! i : H
rj J ;\'
/y-f :
• «*'
I’M#
0
&»&»
y
&C4S*
: " r
v*y
m
,s
m
<i\
m
V
«
V
/*
/£*■«*
SBfe?&
seKr
;Cx>
&8X
m
'V,
a
A.
?W&f
X?M
Q S
|? s;4
mm, /
SSg
Wms '' y Li
w..smm
w •■■-■
Spi
.
< hd.H.'M&z ) da dictates a letter
MESSRS. SHIVERAN-KOLD, CITY
Dear Sir* —In reply to your enquiry for a clean, safe and economical electrical contrivance capable of supplying warmth
to your premises, I have pleasure in stating that we stock the very article for your requirements. Install a G. E. ELECTRIC
RADIATOR and transform the coldness of June days, into the mildness of September! Just place the Radiator wherever you
desire, attach the plug to any lamp socket, and a warm, luminous glow will immediately envelop the room.
Visit our Showroom, or write us for particulars—we look forward with pleasure to receiving your order. Yours, in comfort
Australian • General* Electric - G?
Wentworth Ay Sydney, Oof Queen &• Little Collins St Melbourne
Representing Thomson Houston, O? JCtd.dZu&by, Digfand
<6 GENERAL ELECTRIC C 9, NEW YORK. U S.A.


A. SAUNDERS, Diamond Merchant
A. Saunders’
i are Double-
cut Diamond
Circle Broocii,
15ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamonds,
Rubies or
Sapphires
Oval Cluster
Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
AU Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Necklace, luct., Gold
£22/10/-
Diamonds and Pearls, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
eut Diamond
Cluster Rins,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond
Cluster Three-bar Brooch, lsct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saundfers’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Crossover
Ring', isct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamond,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Three Pure
Double-cut
Diamonds
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
_ 3'
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent Ex-
panding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, Lever move-
ment, compensation balance, Oct. gold throughout,
£7/10/-
15ct. gojd throughout, £l2/10/*. Other designs,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6, £7.
1
mm
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 15ct. Gold, Patent Ex-
panding- Watch Bracelet, full jewelled Level- move-
ment set with Olivines, Red Stones or Pearls, £l2/10/-,
£l5, £l7/10/-. Diamonds and Rubies, £2O. All
Diamonds, £3O, £4O, £5O, according to size of diamonds.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Ex-
panding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled Lever move-
ment, compensation balance, 9ct. Gold throughout,
£B/10/-
15ct. Gold throughout, £l2/10/-; extra movement,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond and Pearl
Necklace, Isct. Gold,
£B/10/-. All Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut
Diamond Bar Brooch, Isct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
Larger Diamonds £2O, £25.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Five Pure
Double-cut
Diamond
King, lact.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Double-
row Half-hoop King,
set with six Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and six Rubies,
Sapphires or Olivines, 18ct. .
Gold, £6/10/-; All Dia-
monds, £l2/10/-, £l5,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds and
Rubies, or
Sapphires
Marquise
Ring, IBct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure, Double-cut Diamond
Half-hoop Bracelet, Isct. Gold, £25.
Set Pearls, £5.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite
Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Pure i>cuble-cut Diamond
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £5O. Larger Diamonds, £65.
Kill those Germs
Germs cause Sore antf Husky Throats.
EVAHS’ Pastilles .
are a scientific means of removing the cause.
Doctors prescribe them.
EVANS. SONS. LESCHER WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
Reduce the Cost of trustee Administration by appointing .
■ -
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/G posted. Mf.rrie
England, Bd. llow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Cali, Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus.,l/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Mare Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatcbford), rod.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2., Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
17- posted. House Painting and Papering. 1/2.
0
m
m
HOME CyCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,’’
By Db. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromes. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
W-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prof. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Solderins, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The W’hite
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator. 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, .illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man llis Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless- Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash.' iSfEstablisbed 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho’
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr'
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 .practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adah Lindsay. Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering,* 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Alor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Kev to all Decrees
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary’
Sd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works!
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted"
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. A\ ebstkr s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas’)
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors. 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-lime Songs (words and music
complete). 1/6 posted. • The Age of Reason bv
Pnine. posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR
cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)
-■ : ;


Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 26th April, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of an Electric Jib
Crane for Workshops, Henderson
Naval Base, Western Australia.
AMENDED NOTICE.
mENDERS will be received until 12
X noon. 16th July, 1917, for the supply
and delivery of an Electric Jib Crane tor
Workshops, Henderson Naval Pase, \\ estern
Australia. Delivery to be made f.o.b.
Fremantle.
Tender forms, specifications etc., may be
obtained on application at the office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; and at the Naval Staff Offices,
Brisbane; Edgecliffe (Sydney), Birkenhead
(South Australia), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Jib
Crane” on top left-hand corner of envelope,
and addressed (if by post, prepaid) to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office.
Melbourne; or the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, care of one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the ease may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted..
, JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 26th April, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Timber to the
Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Sydney, 1917-1918.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 27th June, 1917, for the
supply of timber to the Commonwealth
Naval Dockyard, Sydney.
Tender form, specification, etc., may be
obtained on application at the Office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; The General Manager, Coyimon-
wealth Dockyard, Sydney ; and at the Naval
Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birkenhead (S.A.),
Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to he endorsed “Tender for Tim-
ber” on top left-hand corner of envelope, and
addressed to the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; or the Director of
Navy Contracts, c/o one of the above-
mentioned addresses, as the case may be.
Tenders in all cases to be on the printed
forms, which can be obtained as above.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 17th May, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Soluble
Chocolate to H.M.A. Naval Estab-
lishments, Sydney, N.S.W.
TfIENDERS are invited, subject to ,the
X conditions of tendering, until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 20th June, 1917, for the
supply and delivery of Chocolate to H.M.A.
Naval Establishments, Sydney.
Tender Form, Specification and full parti-
culars may be obtained on application at the
Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; the Victualling-
Store Officer, Royal Edward Victualling
Yard, Pyrmont, Sydney; or at the Naval
Staff Offices, Birkenhead (S.A.), Brisbane,
Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Chocolate” on top left-hand corner of
envelope and addressed (if by post prepaid)
to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne ; or the Director of Navy
Contracts, c/o one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may be.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
forms, which can be obtained as above.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 7th June, 1917.
Tenders for the Construction of a
Launch for Quarantine Service,
Fremantle.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 18th July, 1917, for
the construction of a Launch for Quarantine
Service, Fremantle. Separate tenders should
be submitted for (a) Hull, (b) Machinery
and Accessories,
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette,
obtainable at any Post Office, or at the Office
of the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
ACCOUNTS DUE BY THE GOVERN-
MENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
ALL persons who have claims against the
Government of the Commonwealth are
requested to apply to the Department which
incurred the liability, on or before Friday,
29th .June, so as to avoid inconvenience to
themselves and the Department.
No accounts will be paid on Saturday, the
BOth of June, after 13 a.m.
JOHN FORREST,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
C. J. CERUTHY,
Assistant Secretary.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and .Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
insist on “ Singleton's’ —refuse all substitutes.
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres JLtd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
■p IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS 8; MATINEES WEDS. AND SATS.
An Epoch in Vaudeville.
COLOSSAL SUCCESS OF MISS
ADA Eli EVE,
World's most famous Comedienne and a brilliant
Vaudeville Co.
■piVOLl THEATRE, SIELIIOORNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JUNE 16.
At the Matinee,
MISS
NELLIE STEWART
as
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
In Serial Form. Vaudeville in Addition.
It I T 10 It lON Tll EA T It E, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Last Two Nights of THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 16.
MARIE TEMPEST,
England’s Greatest Comedy Actress,
in SOMERSET MAUGHAM’S
.REN ELOPE.
GRAHAM BROWNE in association.
IKK M A ,1 E 8 T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON ,LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
THE MOST WONDERFUL DRESS DISPLAY EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
CAN ARY COTTA GE.
The last word in loveliness and liveliness.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pA I ACE THEA T R E, SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.
J. and N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY CO.
in
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
CT. JAMES’ (HALE) T HEATRE, Sydney.
° THE JACKEROO.
First Performance of the Australian Comedy,
THE JACKEROO (Thomas E. Spencer).
The Aborigines’* Dramatic Club will present The
Jackeroo, in aid of Soldiers’ Club Fund, on 16th
JUNE, at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. and Is.
AGNES CHAMBERS, Hon. Org. Secretary.
NELLIE LAWSON, Hon. Asst. Sec.
J. CLARENCE LEE, Hon. Treasurer.
G. lIINDMARSH JAMIESON, Producer.
erg
Till AN (ilili I’JLAYS AT
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd). .
W. Barrington' Miu.nn, Managing Director.
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
NION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
u
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.ni.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, AIELBOLRNE~
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE PINK LADY.
The Greatest Triumph of the Royal Comic Opera Co.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til EA T R~E ROY A L, MELBOU RNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE IG.
K
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
CYRIL MAUDE
in his world-famous production of
GRUMPY.
INC'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT. >
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Australia of
THE WHITE CHRYSANTHEMUM.
A Musical Extravaganza from the Criterion
Theatre, London.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C. 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
UI) IT OKI lFm, ME LBOURN E.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
TUESDAY, 19th; THURSDAY, 21st; and
SATURDAY, 23rd JUNE.
Reappearance of the World-Famous
CMERNIAVSKYS,
LEO, JAN and MISCHEL,
in a series of Brilliant New Recitals.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. . Plans at Allan’s.
GERALD MASSEY (the well-known
Entertainer) SEASON.
ATHEN7EUM HALL, MELBOURNE,
SATURDAY, JUNE 16; TUESDAY, JUNE 19;
THURSDAY', JUNE 21; SATURDAY, JUNE 23.
A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
M
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
ENID BENNETT,
our own Australian girl, in
THE LITTLE BROTHER,
And WILLIAM DESMOND,
in the Ince Drama,
THE LAST OF THE INGRAMS.
any. illustration appearing in The
ulletin takes your fancy, write to the
anager. who will quote you price for it.
FOR COLDS, CRAMPS & SPRAINS
USE
Vaseline
Trade Mark Registered
Capsicum
Petroleum Jelly
Cleaner than a mustard plaster,
and will not blister the skin.
Relieves rheumatism, gout and
toothache.
For sale at all chemists and general
stores, in handy sanitary tin tubes.
Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
LONDON MONTREAL MOSCOW
NQ2
"MILLER 1 ’
"MILLER”
Lighting Fixtures and Lamps
of all descriptions—Electric, Gas and
Oil varieties can be obtained through-
out Australia
and New Zea-
land at moder-
ate prices.
The "Miller”
quality is known
the World over
and the name
stands for the BEST in all lamp ware.
Do not fail to look over the
''Miller” line, —it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
MERIDEN. CONN., U. S. A.
No. 08221
Amusements.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHK,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNF
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 'll a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and fid.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
tx^€/una
CURES ECZEMA.'
the very Reverend■ father treand,
M.S.H., of Randwiclc Presbytery, in a letter to Mr.
S. Fielder, dated May 21, 1017, writes: “I am happy
to testify to the wonderful result of your Eczema
Cure. One of our missionaries from Papua came to
Sydney a few months ago suffering from a severe
attack of Eczema. 1 advised him to try your remedy
—Exzerma —and the result has been beyond our
expectation. He has now returned to the mission-
field of New Guinea quite cured.” [1
All Chemists & Druggists, or
3, FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 2/6
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists a,nd Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
ser
A £l4 Machine
::il. £8 ios.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
Packet! and Delivered Free.
A.N. A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
gs
is now ob-
tainable at
no cost of
energy and
very small
one of
money, by
nsing a
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following firms,
Write or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth
St., Melbourne; R. R. Russack, Edge-
clitre, Sydney; Philip Erankel & Co.,
Edward St., Brisbane; Eyes and Crowle
Ltd., Pirie St., Adelaide; Mr. Geo.
Carter, Western Australia.
This Phonograph
will please you.
erg
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Edison Phonographs’
are the world’s
best entertainers
—they play and
sing the best of
music, without
complaint and un-
tiringly.
i, e “H otn c"
Phonograph, illus-
trated. is an ex-
cellent instrument,
and the price is
but £ll/11/-
Inspcct it at the
nearest Edison
dealer’s, or write
direct for illus-
trated catalog,
post free.


HOYT’S PICTURES
.. . i . . _- . 1 «
Two features every night, 3 hours-412.000 feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY. 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED;
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre, Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays. 1/- and 1/6.
’ - - ‘
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
at
v/rrofttPOPH^
Throat ari
MBB
&\*«»**!
Bipt*
a«v*»**i
tOHOO***^
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Chest
Affections.
Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Influenza
Prescribed by the medical profession for twenty-five
years, Angier’s Emulsion is now universally recognised
as a standard approved treatment for colds, coughs
bronchitis, influenza, asthma, consumption, and for all
catarrhal affections of the respiratory or digestive organs.
Angier’s Emulsion is soothing and healing to throat,
lungs, stomach and intestines, and it has a most invigor-
ating, tonic influence upon the general health. Pleasant
to take and equally useful for children or adults, it is an
invaluable household remedy for chest affections.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Rule No. 1 of any selection committee—
“■Shove thy neighbor and get it yourself.”
There are numberless complaints concern-
ing men who have pushed to the Front, or a
good way towards the Front, before some
hidden physical defect has been found out.
Serious citizens who have seen them turned
back realise that the enlistment of such men
means, not merely a loss of production
within the Commonwealth while they are in
camp and on the water, but a great waste of
borrowed money. Yet under the voluntary
system that. kind of thing is bound to
happen. Under a scientific system of selec-
tion the men who are most suitable for
fighters would be sent fighting, and the men
who could do best for their country al; home
would be kept at home. There would then
be no disgrace whatever , in- being kept at
borne. But under the haphazard voluntary
system every man within fighting age is
bound, sometime or other, to feel that,he is
•regarded as a coward for staying behind.
EXPLAINING MATTERS.
“One thing, they always run when they see
the bayonet , don’t they?"
“Well, p’raps; but, y’see, so many of
these German blokes are short-sighted."
The “no indemnities and no annexations”
cry of the British peace party is the stupid-
est on record. Why should there be -no
annexations and no indemnities? Why
should there be no punishments ? - There can
be only one reason-—-because the crime was
so staggering. Of all people in the world to
raise such a cry the Labor man ought to be
the last. All his life he has been battling
against class privileges i and this is a class
privilege—the privilege of the powerful to do
wrong and not suffer for it; the privilege of
the wholesale murderer to murder and not be
hanged; the’privilege of the wholesale thief
to rob‘and not be gaoled. The Labor man
who joins in such a cry says in effect: “I
am the worm that should suffer all the
crushing.”
Prime Minister Hughes is not very weU.
and the daily papers are asking us to re-
member that he has given his health for the
Empire and Australia. This paper hates to
see any man sick and miserable; all the
same, it seems a fair thing that, like all the
other Freetraders, Hughes should be prepared
to make some sacrifice. For it was they who
caused the war. since they furnished Ger-
many with the means by which it hoped to
win. When Blundering Billy talks about
tearing up German metal trusts and other
upas trees, instead of posing as a patriot he
might more honestly appear as a penitent.
He insisted on planting the noxious vege-
tables.
BLIND-MAN’S BUFF.
Immediately the House of Reps, meets on
this Thursday the Nationalists will demon-
strate that now none are for a party but
all are for the State'. They will therefore
at once proceed to kick McDonald out of the
Speaker’s chair for being a Laborite and
instal either Chanter or Alligator Johnson.
Even wfitli a “National” Government in
power it isn’t so necessary for a Speaker
nowadays to know the right standing order
after an election as to have the right riding
order before it.
Joe Ward,' Maoriland’s Treasurer, on his
way back from the London Conference, spoke
at Vancouver last week. There was one
arresting sentence: —
Britain is able to keep the .finance of war going
for another five years.
Joe Ward is by nature a great optimist; and
if there was a remote chant of the horror
being, terminated next week, the Maorilander,
who has been looking at it with the British
Cabinet, is about the last man on earth to
make irrelevant remarks about five years.
As it also transpires that he is “in favor of
conscription of wealth to a limited extent,”
it looks probable that he -is preparing to
gently break the news in Maoriland that it
is a serious business we are in.
The most humorous items of the P.L.L.
Conference at Sydney last week were the
proposals to form a peace basis upon which
to end the ‘war. One scheme was that “the
existing machinery for international arbitra-
tion be expanded to embrace a concert of
Europe.” And just by way of an example
in the way of honoring arbitration treaties
there was at the hour of discussion the spec-
tacle of Judge Edmunds hurling his resigna-
tion, at ‘the Northern miners because they
had dishonored their arbitration award, and
in Illawarra the South Bulli miners were
out. The miners thought the wheelers had
struck, so downed tools; the wheelers
had heard that the miners had struck, so
they ceased work. Arbitration and peace!
But there’s no reason why we shouldn’t in-
dulge in a little merriment occasionally even
in these times.
S. Australia has a fine excuse for trying
an Elective Ministry. If it doesn’t a mere
handful of members will decide the country’s
policy for a time. When Premier Vaughan
was cast out of the Trades Hall he took with
him all of the Labor members but four. Last
week the Barossa seat of lately-dead Coombe
was won by the Liberals by a small majority
from straight-out Labor, the Vaughan party
not nominating. This gives Peake 23 votes
in Opposition. Vaughan can apnarently
l9 ; Labor, four. Peake will not join
with Vaughan against the Labor party ; he
says openly that now is the time, with Labor
split, for the Liberals to get an innings. If
he persists in that, and an Elective Ministry
proposal is rejected, Vaughan is certain to
ask for a general election. But it is by no
means certain that a general election would
get the State out of the mud.
Now that the elections are over and the
Corio seat won by the Phewsion, no more is
heard of the Ozanne case. All that is known
is that Ozanne has received a “good” dis-
charge from the A.I.F. and his
badge from the Returned Sol-
diers’ Association. Presumably
neither of these is issued to a
deserter, which is what the
noisome conspirators accused
Ozanne of being. There can be
no doubt that Ozanne lost the
votes of hundreds of people who
believed the charge, but, having-
won the war, Hughes and Pearce
decline to take further interest
in the' matter. If the charge
was not true the Ilughes-Pearce
crowd was guilty of scandalous
conduct, in using it as an elec-
tioneering dodge ; if it was true
Pearce has behaved in an
equally scandalous manner in
granting Ozanne a clean dis-
charge.
W. J. Denny, Adelaide’s
young lawyer-Labof M.L.A., is
away in the trenches, and some
curiosity was felt as to which
way he would go in the local
political crisis. He lias settled
it by sending word that he will
not go with the Vaughans.
Denny was Attorney-General in
the Verran Labor Ministry. At
the next selection he was passed
over for Crawford Vaughan’s
brother; and, though that, of
course, was done by vote of the
the whole party, Denny became
a kind of freelance, with the
point mostly directed at the two
Vaughans and a brother-in-law,
Clarence Goode, who had all
been voted into the one small
Ministerial team. As all three
are well within military age,
but none of them had seen fit
to enlist, Denny, after he had
joined the ranks as a private,
used his satire unsparingly. So he really
hadn’t left himself nndi option.
The Vic. Political Labor body is to have
a conference next, and one of the things it
- will consider is whether compulsory training
should not be deleted from the Defence Act.
Well, there is no reason why it shouldn’t be,
provided the Conference i$ prepared to also
throw 1 overboard the White Australia doc-
trine and declare that it is quite willing to
submit to any terms and accept any labor
and other social conditions that any hostile
nation may at any time choose to suggest.
They are all getting tired of it. The
latest is the Hobart Mercury:—
During the war, at any rate, we might be all
National and should be if we possessed common-
sense,' And if during the war, why not drop party
rivalry after the war? Is there any good reason for
maintaining the party system, with all its attendant
evils and its obvious costliness, if we can manage
to do without it? If the National spirit became
prevalent it might be possible to try the plan of
elective Ministries, ,and so drop the present system,
by which half the members of* every House in-Aus-
tralia are perpetually obstructing, defeating and
denouncing the work of the other half, for no other
reason than to get into the same position themselves.
With Tasmania’s system •of Proportional Represen-
tation such a. system is not only rendered possible,
but is logically necessitated.
N.S.W. Labor Conference has pledged it-
self to continue barracking for the mainte-
nance of the £5OOO Federal Land Tax exemp-
tion. In this the Conference has merely
given Australia further evidence that, as long
as it gets into office. Labor doesn’t care.
There is not even a plausible argument to
justify the exemption of £1 from land tax.
It is advocated only by vote-hunting politi-
cians, and at the Conference this was cynic-
ally admitted—“We can’t win if we don’t
exempt the small man.” The Bulletin is
prepared to risk the prophecy that, if Labor
wants to keep its collective nose out of the
mud, it will have to knock off angling for
votes by handing out exemptions. And
especially in regard to land values. The
result of the State not taxing land values
is that the users of land pay the tax to
Private Enterprise.
-From Sydney D.T. report of the P.L.L.
Conference:—
Mr. Williams said that any person advocating con-
scription should be driven down to the lowest depth-
of Hell.
If it comes off it should be the longest drov-
ing trip on record.
Westralia is liable to fall to pieces any
moment now. It actually hasn’t got an
official Opposition leader; and Heaven
knows that no country can hold together
unless it has a Government to do something
and an Opposition to prevent the something
being done. When Jack Scaddan broke with
the Labor party, Phil Collier was appointed
in his place; but the arrangement was made
after both House's had gone into recess, so
Premier Wilson refuses to recognise Collier
or pay him the screw of £2OO a year attached
to the job.
Thus Doyle, M.L.A., president of Sydney
P.L.L., giving evidence the other day in a
libel suit against Hugh Dr Mclntosh,
M.L.C.:—
Mclntosh represented to me that the Ministry
was short of funds, and stated that if I secured
£lOOO, Holman would provide me with a seat in
the Leg. Council.
Of course, this is only one side of. the yarn.
Mclntosh was not called in evidence, so it
went at that, and Chief Justice Cullen, who.
for an old politician, preserves an amazing
amount of virginal innocence, made sorrow-
ful remarks about the matter. Also great pain
was experienced by many other right-think-
ing citizens. But what is there to be aston-
ished about? So long as the possession of
propputy is regarded as an “Upper House”
qualification, and in some States that is
frankly provided for, coarse-fibred men
with large ambitions are bound to take
some steps to prove tliht they are qualified.
The purchase of titles in Britain is as open
as the peddling of onions, and more than one
“colonial knight” owes his ribbon to a
judicious generosity at the right place.
Still these matters are usually arranged in
a gentlemanly way, bottle-oh methods of
diplomacy being regarded as bad form.
A deputation asked the Treasurer the
other day to sweep away, some of the
anomalies and absurdities of income-tax
assessment in N. S. Wales. There are
plenty of them. One glaring wrong which
the city man suffers is the refusal of the
Commissioners—who, of course, merely ad-
minister the law—to allow any deduction for
a leasehold sinking fund. This is a wicked
encouragement of rotten accountancy ; for a
fund to wipe out the money spent by the
lessee on a leasehold is as much a necessary
and proper charge against profits as the rent
is. How badly the law needs overhauling a
case of this other sort shows. The Act says
that expenses incurred in the production of
MORE HOPE.
HE: “ But, bai Jove, if I went to the — er —
Front I might get wounded, y’ know,
and come back a different — er—bally
man,"
SHE: “Oh! Then I would love you all the
more."
income may be deducted. But if. as hap-
pened in many cases a couple of years ago, a
man who. owns a wheat farm spent, say,
£5OO on it and the harvest w r as an utter
failure, he could not deduct a penny of that
£5OO from his other income. If he sold even
£5 worth of wheat he could deduct the whole
£5OO. But if the harvest is an absolute
failure the law is mad enough to insist that
he hasn’t spent a penny and assesses him on
his other income accordingly.
WAITING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
German heart, do not despair, even though the
entire’ world : blackens ynd defS'mes you. So long
as God believes in us, and He does believe in us, it
will be aIK light. We have become solitary, we are
the outcasts and the forsaken among the nations.
Those who once blessed us now curse us. Those who
once ate our bread now tread on us. German heart,
do not worry about this. Ingratitude isi the world’s
reward. It is all grotesque. Laugh at it. Laugh
your sacred, freedom-giving laugh.
—Professor Muller, of Berlin.
Keep on laughing, dear Professor;
Laugh your sacred, loud guffaw ;
Eulogise the Hun transgressor
Whilst be shatters human law.
Glorify your jubilation;
View the war-map with a smile;
Hope for all the world’s damnation
Yet awhile!
Keep on grinning, learned joker;
Bid the Allies go to Hell
(Hell’s aflame, and Nick the Stoker
Keeps the furnace burning well) :
Most grotesque, is Belgium's sorrow;
Eranee’s plight makes Germans scoff.
Laugh to-day, and damn the morrow,
Dear old Prof!
Laugh away whilst growing leaner
(111, the harvest Huns have sown,
Death the reaper—Hate the gleaner),
Laugh away, and laugh alone.
Wo, who now see nothing funny,
Wait for you to stand aghast;
lie laughs best, insensate sonny,
Who laughs last.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


PALING’S PIANOS
AND
Player Pianos.
THE VICTOR PRAYER PIANO.
The banislier of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument, which
everyone can play.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very Hue Player indeed, at a most
moderate price. Ask for particulars.
THE SUPERB CHAPPELL
PIANO.
These pianos have a most delightful
singing tone, and are distinguished for
their beautiful design and finish.
Also Estey Organs
These illustrations are but a few examples of the beautiful
Player Pianos and Pianos sold bv us. In their various
grades they fulfil the utmost expectation.
Each instrument has been specially selected by our experts
and embodies over half-a-century’s experience. Tone-
quality and durability are special features.
Any model can be purchased on our time-payment-system
if desired, this makes it wonderfully easy to at once purchase .
a high-grade fully-guaranteed piano or player piano.
If you cannot make it convenient to call at our Show Rooms
to inspect these delightful instruments, please write to-night
for our fully-illustrated Catalogue and particulars of our
easy terms. We will gladly post them to you.
W. H. PALING 8 CO. LTD.
338 Georg'e Street,
SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore 8 Toowoomba.
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
most artistic Player. Exquisite tone
quality and touch.
THE EKTEY PIANO. Model B.
Specially recommended for hot climates
Stands in tune for very long' periods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Renowned throughout Australia' for its
remarkable durability.
Everything Musical.
f ** mi O/j
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
THE STIFFEST BEARD
can be shaved with the greatest ease if you use
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
You will swear by the “PLUM” once you experience
its keen-cutting, perfectly-tempered edge.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
Plum Razor Stropping, 1/2 tube.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORGE STREET, BYDNEY.
Established, over SO years.
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “Plum" Razor
2 Necessaries
for Every
Household:
Cornwells Extract of Malt
Cornwells Pure Malt Vinegar
1. The best Tonic and Body-
builder for Children.
2* The most savory and purest
Malt Vinegar for Adults.
Obtainable All Grocers,
Stores.


The power of the British to blow their
■way through the strongest Hun defences has
been once more demonstrated at the Ypres
salient suggests that wise spirit King George
IV. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special Wh isky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Rediern, Sydney.
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free' to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
gse
TYRES
More Miles for Your Money,
HUDSWELL, CLARKE 8 CO.,
m-LWI.t.-T,, ft HW.T
mr
m
LEEDS.
Locos, of all Types.
ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BEST.
Agent—
J. GERMAN, Engineer, Ocean House, Moore St., Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
This year’s entries for Melbourne’s classic
jumping races seem to emphasise the difference
between the “sticks” at Flemington and Caulfield.
The V.A.T.C. Australian Hurdle Race has 70 entrants
as against 54 for the Y.R.O. Grand National. In the
nominations for the fencing events the difference is
still more marked. The Australian Steeplechase has
75 candidates, the Steeple at, Flemington only 36,
which is a confession that 39 of the alleged ’chasers
with some pretensions to go the four miles at Caul-
field over comparatively • easy obstacles are not
reckoned equal to the three miles one furlong on the
stiffer course at Flemington". The most notable of
the new hurdlers, entered only for the V.A.T.C.
event, is Barlow. He wants the extra month for
jumping practice, anyhow. King Mostyn and Greek
Fire are dangerous aspirants for both hurdle races,
Old Mungindi is down for both steeplechases, and
Red Corn is entered for all four events. Wonder-
graph is in three of them, but his owner shied at
the G. N. Steeple. The same statement applies to
Nick-a-Jack, who is a bit small for the big sticks even
at Caulfield. If the writer had to pick any doubles
lie would select from the abovemontionod, although it
usually happens that old and oft-tried battlers are
the best for the mid-winter tests, especially in
steeplechases.
* * * *
The totalisator was doing business at the
Moorefield (Sydney) course on Saturday, and as the
turnover amounted to £4105 what may be called
a record was established for N. S. Whiles. Yet the
figures are ridiculously paltry. The most invested
on any one race was registered on the Kogarah
Stakes —£535 on the inside and £271 on the out-
side machine. The dividends were calculated
separately. The meaning of all tin's is that only a
fraction of the money that was talking went through
the machine. The return to the club after paying
cost of manipulation would not provide the prize-
money for a single race. And so it goes on.
“Trot”: The mtblished comparisons
between the prices of the books and the machine on
N. S. Wales courses are futile, and when they conic
to be applied to Randwick they will be worse. The
quotations allegedly prevailing in Israel represent the
death-knock. So, too, do the tote divs. But there
is this vital point always to hear in mind—that if
the cash which drives a horse down from, say.i B's to
3’s had been emptied on to the totalisator, the divi-
dend with which the closing price is compared would
have worn quite another look. No man who can
deposit, say, £3OO at s’s is going to tumble it into
a pool when by the very act of doing this he will
shorten his possible win down to 2’s or 3’s. In Maori-
land the bigger the punter the more regularly he has
struggled for 20 years to keep his money off the
machine. That is why they cut the telegraph lines
off the courses over yonder. The arguments for the
totalisator rest on another basis altogether, and it
would not be a bad thing if defenders af the machine
remembered this and kept to the point.
* * * *
One of the minor virtues of the tote is that
it does away with the bitterness incidental to fal-
lacious s.p. quotations in the daily press. Take
the ease of Lost Time, an imported gee with donkey
feet that won a handicap at Flemington the other
Monday. Its starting price in Melbourne Herald
was 25 to 1. In the morning organs of public
deception it was 20 to 1. This was never the price
on offer to Dick, Tom and Harry. It might have
been obtained to the tune of a tenner by a big
bettor from his pet booky, after which the odds
would have dropped to 15’s, on the assumption that
the stable fancied the animal. When the writer
asked the price of Lost Time it was 10 to 1. A
friend of his got 12 to 1 just before the start of the
race. The 20 to 1 quotation was a delusion and a
sham, anyhow, seeing that anyone who had a auid
on the outsider at s.p. in town would be up against
a 10 to 1 limit. The only imagirfable purpose in
publishing these exaggerated prices is to glorify the
bookmakers and suggest to artless punters that they.,
would not be so very much better off with the
totalisator.
* * * *
“Uteara”; This sounds like a racecourse
tale, but it is dinkum. A S. Australian who toils in
the country and spends his week-ends at his city club
went to Morphettville to see the Goodwood Handicap
run. In one pocket he had five £5 notes tied with
a string to prevent mistakes and five single notes.
Before the first race, the Welter, he waited near the
tote .to get the oil from a friend, who delivered the
goods at sueh a late hour as to make the transaction
hasty. “Eastern Sea —get on it quickly before the
tote closes!” was the whisper. The man from the
country made a beeline for the £1 windows; but
to his dismay the jostling crowd was so great at
each window that his chance of getting a pound ticket
was nil. Excitedly he sprinted to the £5 window,
and pulling out five loose notes said to the clerk,'
“Give me a ticket on No. 3.” The clerk handed
him five £5 tickets. Our friend stood aghast and
said, “There must be some mistake.” The gong
sounded, the window banged, and the ticket-holder
was left talking excitedly to himself. Diving his
hand into his pocket to see how his fivers were getting
on he extracted five single notes. The string had
come undone and his fivers had gone into the window!
Off his block for the moment he hammered at the
window shrieking for the clerk to take back four
of the tickets. But the officials weren’t opening any
windows or doors at that stage. Nearly mad with
rage, he was wandering back to the crowd when he
heard shouts of Eastern Sea. He rubbed his eyes,
looked at the judge’s box and saw his number go up.
Later the hoist read, “Eastern Sea £lB 18s. for £l.”
Figure it out yourself: he collected 25 times £lB
18s. I can kiss the Book and swear to this being
authentic.
* • * *
Cheerful item from Narrabri (N.S.W.) :
“The last meeting of the Jockey Club resulted in a
profit of £lOO. Revenue from bookmakers, £55;.
profit from the tote, 195.” Apparently the yield to
the State was £2 4s. 4d., which is probably in-
sufficient to pay Red Tape its wages. Now, what
good is it to anyone to run the machine on sueh
lines as this?
The colors Carlita used to be decorated
with were worn bv voung Barden at Moorefield
(Sydney) on Saturday, but very few people noticed
the nag he was on until it led the procession home m
the Kogarah Stakes, a mile race for maidens. The nag
was Ballam, by Charlemagne II. —Demeter, at one
time known by the German-flavored name of Karl.
Most of the money was for Bernalda, Powdal and
Tawdry, wherefore the friends of Ballam got on
their bit at 15 and 12, which made the proceedings
Very agreeable. Ballam ran at Randwick two or
three times during the Christmas meetings, and did
it so unobtrusively as to be considered ,worth a spell
in the meantime. He arrived in “444.”
Ikey took no chances when the punters
charged up with cash for Dame Acre in the 1 lying at
Moorefield on Saturday. Nothing better than 2 to 1
was going, all*of which showed that neither givers
nor receivers knew as much as the lady herself, for
she shifted much less expeditiously than she does
sometimes and about as rapidly as she does at other
times. Instead of finishing up in front she trans-
pired at the other extremity. Meanwhile Asia Minor,
a grandson of Wallace, who had been knocking at
the door several times recently, and Galen, who had
been doing the other thing, carried on the argument
without interruption, the first-named winning by
half a length. Asia Minor was certainly due. In
four preceding starts he had run two seconds, a third
and a fourth. The stable apparently reckoned that
the time was ripe for something more. Anyhow, they
pulled him out again in the last race, a welter. This
time he was third once more. With different placing
the record might have worn another appearance.
“Baron” John Brown, of Newcastle, lias
nominated 15 yearlings for next year’s Rosehill
Guineas; and as John hopes to find in this lot worthy
successors to Prince Foote and Sir Foote, lie has
dubbed all the youngsters Princes and Princesses,
Dukes and Duchesses. But it seems very dull, this
system of christening, and might well be left
as a monopoly to the proprietors of bulls. If the
Brown horses must be decorated with the'names of
exalted persons, why not seize the opportunity of
doing something with words like “Alderman” and
“Lord Mavor”? A long-fought-out Struggle in the
A.. 1.0. Derby between Alderman Stought and Lord
Mayor Lunch might stir the public to its vitals.
Three jumpers gave encore performances
at the recent V.R.C. Birthday Meeting - . When on
the first day Lord Dudley took the York Hurdle Race
and Artillery Bill the Hopetoun Steeplechase, both
leppers were repeating their triumphs of a, year ago.
On the second day Ballista, continuing an unusual
sequence, scored similarly in the Marlborough Hurdles,
shouldering 71b. more than when he was successful in
the race last year.
LIEUT. AUSTIN DIAMOND, cricketer-
soldier, who is touring N.S.W. in search
of recruits for a Sportsmen's Battalion.
When old Ballista won the hurdle race at
Flemington on the second day of the Birthday meet-
ing Coincidence brought off a treble event. Ballista
was the third jumper in succession to repeat its
victory of the previous year in the same race. With
all the best of the weights he was followed home
by three other notable old stagers in CoronatuS, Obi
and Van Homreigh.
Talk about luck! Three times of late the
little Coldstream (Vic.) Racing Club has tried to
bring off a meeting at the Yarra Glen course, and
each time it been baulked by rail#
* * * *
There is a possibility of Half-a-Glass
developing into a horse of, say, St. Spasa’s class.
They are both of them English-bred ones that have
improved in appearance since they got acclimatised.
A while ago Half-a-Glass used to rush away from the
barrier and spin himself out. Being now bigger and
more steady-going than he was, the imported son of
Isinglass looks the sort to earn his corn in long-
distance races. -
**9 * »
The imported horse has tjeen a conspicu-
ously frequent winner during the current season and
is likely to be a still more frequent one next year.
One reason is that several of whfit may reasonably
be considered horses of high class have been added to
the collection, besides a considerable number of
animals which are believed to be pretty good. The
comfortable theory that the form shown by importa-
tions was a mere coincidence, having no relation to
the quality of the Australian horse, is no longer
taken seriously. The evidence points all one way.
And further evidence bearing on the subject
ought to be available before long. Breeders are
going in for the imported sire more emphatically
than ever. Now, supposing it turns out that the
progeny of these sires and imported mares continue
to do less than hold their own with nags bred and
reared in another country, questions relative to the
treatment and training of the immature prad in
Australia would surely be worth consideration.
*. * * *
It has been unusually easy to spot the
winners in the autumn campaign, the busiest time
of the year in South Aus. racing, now ended.
Cyklon won both the weight-for-age races, and has
now retired to the stud, after a brilliant but un-
certain career. Gold Cuffs ran second in each
case, and was also second in the Adelaide Cup; so
his win with 9st. 31b. in the Birthday Cup was
popular. Glad Eye had somehow been thrown in
with 6st. 91b., and always looked dangerous. He
finished second, and won the Alderman Cup on the
last day. In .spite of awful weather, except on
the Birthday, the totalisator aggregate of £48,000
was the best since the war began. During the
week contractor Timms bought Dr. Bennett’s prom-
ising colt Blue Bolt; with the above-named Glad
Eye, Green Cap (Adelaide Clip winner), and others,
he now has a strong string,
The usual batch of police-court cases came on
immediately after this Adelaide meeting. Betting,
except through the tote, is absolutely illegal in
S. Aus. The A.R.C. races on portion of the city
park-lands, with a Flat free to all-eomers, but
no tote on it. Consequently the thousands there
have to break the law to back their fancy at all,
while just across the track thousands are lawfully
doing the same thing in a very slightly different
way. Counsel for the bookmakers put up the obvious
arguments; but Mitchell, S.M., said he was there
to enforce the laws, and the proper place to discuss
them with a view to alteration was elsewhere.
Small fines, he said, clearly made the law a dead
letter, and he proposed to inflict penalties that
would make it respected. The newspapers have
since got busy on the undemocratic sort of arrange-
ment that helps the pavilionite to bet while bar-
ring the man on the Flat. The racing clubs quite
realise the position; but they are advised that the
present Act would not cover an extension of the
tote; and to go to Parliament, these times, asking
for extended powers to facilitate betting, might be
to stir up the whole question with Lord-knows-what
results.
* * * *
Major-General Chauvel. G.O.C. Anzac
Mounted Division in Egypt, affectionately declares
that he has never ceased wondering - how Australia
has continued to produce such a splendid lot of
horses. During the fighting at Romani, in the
hottest month of the year, the horses of one regi-
ment were without water for 52 hours. At the
raid on Mazar, in September, some of the nags were
waterless for 30 hours, under the saddle all the
time, and did 40-odd miles; and at the raid
on Magdhaba, in December, most of them were
without a drink for 36 hours, did nearly 50 miles,
and were not undressed at any part of the time.
“Trooper Bluegum”: Of course it liad
happened often before, likely enough, but I had never
seen a horse-race with the nags filing past the post in
the exact order that they were numbered in the book.
It was at Cairo recently, and in the Mameluke Handi-
cap there were six arabs on the card; (1) Beard’s
Cheerful, lOst.; (2) Bachler.’s Blitz, 9st. 101 b.:
(3) Michaelides’ Maintenon, 9st. 101 b. ; (4) Abdel
Aziz Bey Rahmi’s Rococo, 9st. 31b. ; (5) H.E. Omar
Pasha Sultan’s Gazelle, Bst. 81b..; and (6) Sheikh
Mohamed Megelli’s Ghatwan, Bst. lib. The run was
11 furlongs and the performers came home exactly
in their order on the card.
* * * *
■ Tommy Uren had another argument with
Fred Kay at Sydney Stadium on Saturday, and in
the judgment of Arthur Scott, called in as a con-
sulting accountant, Thomas emerged with a credit
balance. Well, this may be right, for the arithmetic
of biff is at times a mysterious business. It was
a good, vigorous scrap", anyway, and that ff> the
main thing. There were torrid moments when Kay
looked to be on the edge of the Never Never and
times when the other fellow seemed on the brink of
being afflicted with absence of mind. But both came
back armed with a clout, and peace was only patched
up by summoning the referee.
Ed Lynagh and Wave Geike met to dis-
cuss the Bananaland lightweight championship on
Saturday at Brisbane. For 10 rounds they behaved
like a pair of unsociable billygoats, head-to-head,
mingling short range biff with wild scramble. Then
the fireworks started, and Edward landed sundry
rights to the jaw that deposited Wave ungracefully
on the mat in round 12. Next round it was Mr.
Lynagh’s turn to repose, and right on to the 16th
mix-up he repeated the performance with such fre-
quency that the referee ordained the other fellow.
*** . *
Ex-champion Bill Squires was badly fouled
at Newcastle the other night. He was walking
along the street with a friend, when a wild young
Russian stabbed him four times alymt the shoulders
and cut the arm of his companion, one Hudson. The
shoulder-cuts suggest that the man with the knife
came at them from behind. What a beautiful wallop
he missed by not charging at Bill from the front!
* * * *
Guy Harden, who was in the threequarter
line of Sydney Uni. first-grade Rugby team, and
also in the first line of life-savers on Bondi Beach,
has been awarded the Military Cross. He has a
commission in the Royal Engineers.
Boxing has been made a compulsory part
of the training for Canadian soldiers. There seems
to be room for it. At a big evening’s show in Lon-
don, Canada v. England—all boxers on either side
soldiers —the Westerners did not win an event at
any weight. One contest went 20 rounds, and was
decided on points ; but two others were stopped by
the referee in the third round.
Francis Birtles has gone record-smash-
ing again, and knocked the Brisbane to Sydney motor
figures down to Y9hr. 35min. —2hr. 35min. off the
previous best time for the 660 miles trip. Exactly
what Birtles wants to hurry for this paper doesn’t
know. Perhaps he is full of remorse and wants to
get to some useful job.
* * *
A. T. Bedell, a Yankee motor-cyclist,
has splintered the 1000-miles record put up by E.
Baker in Victoria a few months back. Bedell
hurried over the distance in 20 hours 42min., which
is 21min. better than Baker’s time for the journey.
By the way, Bedell’s achievement for the 24 hours,
11534 miles, leaves Baker 1254, miles behind.
J. W. E. Baillie, skipper of the winning rink
in the old bowling buffers’ roll-up at Sydney re-
centlv, is a 76-year youngster. He was among
the pioneers of the Woolpaek Club (Parramatta),
which played in the early ’7o’s on the site now
adorned by the police-station in the heart of the
* old town.' When in the past he was not worrying
the jack, Baillie lifted the cane in the near-by
public school. The oldest lad in the roll-up was
John Hedges, of Randwick, who owns up to 89, but
is still as lively as most of the youths of three-score
years and 15.
S. H. Sparrow, formerly of Marrickville
(Sydney), who died lately in France, was the pivot
in the long-drawn-out fight over the question ol
amateur athletes playing League football, and when
the A. A. A. ruled against allowing a mixture he
crossed with many others to the League camp, riw
months ago, as a non-com., Sparrow won the Mili-
tary Medal in France, and afterwards was lifted to
the stars at Pozieres.
. * «• *
J. H. Morris, whose score on June 5 stood
at 86 not out, is one of the few surviving old-time
N.S.W. rep. cricketers. He was in the Ail Comers
XI which defeated Charlie Lawrence’s Aboriginal
team in ’6B by 15 runs on the Albert Ground, Red-
fern. Afterwards he swung a bat for N.S.\\ . against
Victoria. Hale and full of cricketing reminiscences,
the old man keeps on playing Father Time’s slows
with great confidence.
Sydney Cricket Ground trustees at the
request of the Rugby League have passed a rule
providing that any spectator convoying liquor on to
the ground or drinking it elsewhere than at the
pub bars may be removed by force. This rule is
made in the interests of (1) the bars and (2)
decorum, the idea being to squelch bottled-beer
parties on the hill. As the highly-respected mem-
ber sitting in the pavilion with a whisky flask con-
cealed about his clothes will also be liable to bo
vseized by the scruff of the neck and hustled into
Moore Park, justice may yet be done all round.
The Sydney Schoolgirls’ tennis tourney
discovered a budding champion in Miss 1). Akhurst,
who won both open and handicap events easily. The
young lady comes from Normanhurst, where Miss
Payten, the unbeaten lady champion; graduated.
“Nagrom”: It was a chilly night prior to
the shirks o’clock Act, and the fans were making
home. In a corner of the tram snored a beery indi-
vidual who, when the ticket inspector cropped up
with “Tickets, please!’’ moved not to comply. “All
tickets, please!” yelled the officer, and one of the
fares prodded the sleeper in the ribs. At that the
well-oiled party jerked up into a fighting attitude
for a moment, then fished his ticket out of his vest
pocket, and said, “There izh (hie) only shix in it,
thash all,” and resumed his snore. “Pass your ticket
along, sir!” demanded the irate officer, and again
the prod went home. The boozer reared, glaring for
fight: “Dam yez! Cam’ yer read? Feffeen-two,
feffeen-four, and a pair’s shix. Didn’ I shay before
there wuz shix in it?” Then the snore was once
more resumed.
* * * *
“Ajack”: “The Old Soldier” (B. 24/5/’l7)
is rather late in his denunciation of the importation
of the red deer. It was in “The Old. Soldier’s”
bird-nesting days that the animals were brought into
N. S. Wales by Osborne and let loose on bis station
(Currandooley) on the edge of Lake George. The
deer are very shy and can only be sighted if tracked
just about daylight in the morning. They inhabit
the rugged hills round about the Lake George basin.
But. shy as they are, 1 believe that more than one
shearer who does liarbering business in the vicinity
lias tasted venison free of charge.
* * * *
“Romney”: If a gun were fixed immov-
ably in a vyce it might be necessary to pull the
trigger when a duck was six, 12 or 18 feet behind the
line of fire; but if the gun be brought up from
behind the duck and fired as soon as the sight is
level with the beak, that duck dies, for the shot has
a double motion, towards the bird and in the direc-
tion of its flight. The gun must be moving when
the trigger is pulled, and it must be ahead more or
less when the charge leaves the barrel. How much
more or less depends on the man, and he cannot tell
anyone else.
* * # #
A couple of fishermen at the Bluff (M.E.)
had the run of their lives recently when they hooked
an outsize in sharks. The lawyer, going stark mad,
headed at top speed for the Vague Unknown, and
for an hour it looked as if he intended to drag the
launch to the terminus. However, his strength
failed him and he floated to the surface, where he
was killed. It took over two hours to tow the brute
to port, where he was weighed and measured. He
went 1 ton 2cwt., and 14ft. lin., with a girth of
9ft. 6in.
* * * *
When the N. S. Wales Amateur Fishermen
dined together lately, D. G. Stead, manager of the
State trawling industry, prophesied that the famous
fishing at Santa Catalina Island, California, would
one day be rivalled by Port Stephens, where the
locals now hunt Spanish mackerel and other sea
fighters. Ordinary fishing is no good to the man
who has once pulled against the Spaniard and his
mates; all other fish are ever afterwards scornfully
referred to as “surface rubbish” —which is the sort
of talk that jars the patient soul who has schooled
himself to sit as still as a turnip while waiting for
' something small to nibble like a nervous rabbit.


0
Deep Breathing is the
Vital Force of Life
The Passport to Good Health. - ™
It is oxygen that gives the blood its sparkling redness -
the body its warmth and energy—that makes it possible
for the food we eat to be transformed into bone, muscle and
Since' it is the duty of the lungs to supply the blood with
oxygen, deep breathing should be the foundation of every
system of exercise.
A great majority of people are shallow chested —-sufferers
from oxygen starvation —and yet they wonder why they
are fatigued, depressed, under weight—why their vital
organs fail in their duty.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my
POSTAL COURSE of HEALTH
and STRENGTH CULTURE
are most modern, efficient and successful.
They build up weak chests by strengthening the lungs,
developing the muscles supporting the chest walls, broaden-
ing the shoulders, and making you breathe in a natural
way.
The exercises you receive will be those most suitable for
your individual physique, just as the particulars you furnish
tell me vou require.
I have written a book entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells all about my methods,
fees, etc. It will be sent to your address on request. Just
write your name and address across this advertisement and
post it to me. 1 will know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”)
BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
619 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
A Battery
for All-
Round
Service
21
V
mlwsmil
COLUMBIAS are all-round utility
batteries, suited for either heavy
or light work. They have higher
voltage and amperage than wet cells.
No liquid to spill; no glass jars to break.
Dependable, uniform, and strong.
Columbia
Batteries
ring bells; operate telephones and sig-
nals; discharge blasts. And they run
engines, motor cars, motor boats and
tractors. Columbia
Batteries are designed
to give satisfactory re-
sults under all climatic
conditions. Specially
packed to reach desti-
nation in first - class
condition.
Dealers : I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
"Carbon Cleveland”
US. A
CTS
SfS/Bt
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS.
USE IT-AND PROVE IT.
SAMSON HORNS.
Every Motorist Wants a Good Horn, and they
get it in the “SAMSON,” which can be used
in five different positions.
No. 35 “Samson-Tiger” (11" over all), 25/- each
No. 36 “Samson-Tiger” (Motor-cycle), 24/6 each
No. 45 “Samson-Lion” over all), 21/- each
No.46‘‘Samson-Lion” (Motor-cycle), 21/- each
The above Hand Horns Post Free anywhere in
Australasia. Vibrator and Motor Horns from
16/-. Ask for Catalogue No. 3008.
RAMSAY SHARP & CO. LTD.,
217 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Write for Appointment as District Agent.
The Architect
saves time, and ke< ps in
closer touch with his work
The Surveyor
covers more ground,
does a bigger day’s work
The Rural Worker
has all Austr ilia as a
market for his labour
The Doctor
gets there quicker.
8218
Have You Thought
How Valuable the
might be in your Profession, Business or Trade?
Catalogue “D” with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.. 109-113
Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Miiledge Bros., 156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide
and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE : Eyes & Crowle Ltd.. 15-79 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON : Johrr King & Sons Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH : Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency, Hay Street.
PATON
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
JUST THE STYLE FOR YOU
—with COMFORT such as you have never
known —this is the ideal combination you
get in
RICNEY SHOES.
There’s a model to suit every taste, and a
fit for every foot.
We illustrate a choice Willow Calf Lace
Boot, Linen Lined, close and Medium Welts,
perforated Golosh and Lace Face.
24/- and 30/-
IN BLACK OR TAN.
BOOTS OR SHOES.
Postage 9d. extra.
mu
/p
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
.
M
/
H
»
o
i
■
H
§
SS
S'
12
g*; :
imHIMIIIBIIIaIHIHII
Evermore
Smile
You know this smile—but do you know-
EVERMORE
STROPPER
Price 13/-
The only automatic Strapper
which sves the true Slyde-Stroke
so essential in sharpenir^any
raTpr.
Special adapters are provided
with each Strapper jov the.
sharpening of anv make of
safety -razor blade both si jse
ana double ec^ed.
Ask Your Dealer i
to Demonstrated
i mm down^
; Rojgr goes A>*» when
| Lett hand pails
IF UNPROCURABLE WRITE BOX— 1003 GP 0 SYDNEY
OR BOX W <3 P O AUCKLAND . NEW ZEALAND • *
60JNG UP •]
' t&rcor j
when Kwi* (vend'
fu IU * j


SKF
Ball Bearings.
rgs
erg
Hanger Block and •Bearing.
l''or shafting you reach the high-water
mark in using our Plummer and Hanger
Blocks, self-aligning, saving in power
from 25% to 75%.
Double Thrust Bearings for motor-boats,
gears, etc. Single Thrusts for centrifuge I
pumps and all classes of machinery.
Double and Single Thrusts.
GARDNER, WJERN
& CO.— =
Melbourne 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane 369 Queen Street.
“De Reszkes,” by
Jove ! What luck !
Cigarettes are the only home
comfort a man can enjoy on
Active Service. Why not send
your friend a regular supply of
“De Reszkes’ 1 he's worthy of!
the very best. Buy some on
your way home. Post the parcel
with your own hands—
then you know they will
reach him safely.
Sold Everywhere
ft
-
Grey Hair—Home
Remedy.
An old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
-ho turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has only
to get from the chemist two ounces of con-
centrate of tammalite and mix it with three
ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair with
a. small sponge for a few nights and the
greyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula.—Advt. ro
flqu&peria
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hjunyadi .Tanos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20.1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with' Therapeutic
requirements.” - Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents'. —R. E. JONES & CO ,
Daily Teleukaph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; i
publicly acknowledged to be the most
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is
personal supervision of the owner, A.
n fact, it is
refined and
under the
FINNIOAN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
,
HL it l
inn
m
@45556*6
n
sr
a ITI
Si in
psaiafes
Old barn and sheds made weath-
erproof and as attractive as when
new by covering roof and sides
with RU-BER-OID.
Unchanged in Quality
for 23-Years
, Ru -BER-OIQ Roofing has always been made of the
highest grade materials, free from paper, wood fibre, tar,
asphalt and cheap mineral oils. Because of its proved
wearing qualities, it has had 300 imitators. We recommend
ftU-BER-0 Q
COSTS MORE-WEARS LONGER
because it has always given our
customers lasting satisfaction. We
cannot recommend cheaper roofings
because they will not Wear as
Ru -Ber-OIQ wears.
RU -BER-OIQ cannot tot, Oracle,
melt or run. It is permanently
waterproofed. Put on a Ru-ber-OIQ
roof and yoii will not have to worry
about troublesome and expensive
repairs.
Ru BER-OIQ Roofs applied more
than 20 years ago look good today
for many years more service.
We stand back of RU-BER-OIQ-
We're tight here to see that the
tooting yoti buy is all a roofing
Ought to bei We have never had
& Complaint Regarding JHI-BER-OIQ,
but tnany have told us that it is a
perfect roofing.
You get the genuine RU‘BER-OIQ
here. The “Ru-ber-oid Man”
(shown above) is on every roll.
We can also supply Colored
Ru -BER-010 (Ka-lor-oid) in per-
manent Tile Red and Copper
Green.
Agents: BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO. I.TO., Melbourne.
A. AV. SAND CORD & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown. Sydney.
to pm
T
m its
Canno
Cleans ]
British
lash.
elf.
turc
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(INCORPORATED BY ROYAL CHARTER, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the bank) . . ’ ’
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . . . ’
£2,000,000
2,840,000
2,000,000
EIGHTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
With the Ac counts for the Half-year to 16th October, 1916, presented to the Proprietors at the Annual
General Meeting, held on Thursday, 29th March, 1917
REPORT.
„ The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 16th October last with the
Profit Account tor the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current for British
and Australasian rates and taxes, and after making provision for bad and doubtful debts and other
contingencies, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £200,904 16s. 8d -
Ihe dividend and bonus will be payable in London and in Australasia on the 30th March,
and Freder,Vl- t0 V S p* 1 ??*- by *. rota T tlon are = T *jf Rt Hon. Lord Aldenham, Charles E. Barnett, Esq.,
re-election Livingstone-Learmonth, Esq., D. 5.0., who, being eligible, offer themselves for
The piopnetois will be asked to approve the election ■as s director of flu ■u- ~ ,
Midleton, K.P., in place of the late Viscount Quenington, M P ClUecto1 ’ of the Rt. Hon. discount
The auditors, Messrs. Welton and Bond, offer themselves for re-election
have been°clLed at Creswick > VietoHa > » ,ld pOTt Adelaide, South
Threadneedle Street, London, 19th March, 1917.
G. HAMILTON", Chairman.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from APRIL j.O, 1916, to OCTOBER 16, 191
Profit for the half-year to October 16, 1916, after deducting rebate on
bills current at balance date (£7102 10s. lid.), and making rami-
vinn fni* oil Kn rl mid ,1 1 r .. , i . . '
6.
siou for all bad and doubtful debts and for other contingencies
Less:
Charges of Management—•
Australasia:
Salaries and allowances to the staff, including the
Superintendent’s Department and 204 branches
and agencies.. £130,299 14
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationerv
travelling, etc. '. 28,966 18
London:
Salaries
General expenses
10,982 9
4,292 6
..£489,522 1 0
11. Rates-and Taxes-
Australasia
London
..£40,208 5 0
. . 73,867 10 11
£174,541 8 5
£114,075 15 11
£288,617 4 4
total amount of net profit for the half-year to October 16, 1916
Transferred to . Dividend and Bonus Account, March 30, 1917
Transfer to Reserve Fund
Balance brought forward from April, 1916
Balance carried forward per balance-sheet
£170,000 0
30,000 0
. . £2OO,
0
0
£2OO,
904 16 8
000 0 0
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 16, 1916.
. . 121,
. . £122,
904 16 8
759 2 6
Dr. LIABILITIES.
Circulation £4(4,549 0 0
Deposits . . . . . . . . 19,672,173 19 11
Bills payable and other liabilities,
including provision for contin-
gencies . ~ .. . . 3,075,116 12 7
€23,151,839 12 6
Capital . . . . £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 2,840,000 0 0
Dividend and bonus
payable March 30,
1917 . . . . 170,000 0 0
Profit account
balance ..' 122,663 19 2
5,132,663 19 2
£28,284,503 11 8
ASSETS. rT‘
Specie, bullion, Government Notes.
and Cash balances .. £5 194 097 4 2
Loans at call and at short notice 345,000 0 0
British Government Securities . . 1.221 628 9 1
Government Securities of Austral-
asia and India and other invest-
ments . . . , . , . 1,403,511 5 10
Bills receivable, advances on securi-
ties and other assets . . . . 20,093,660 14 °
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand, and London .. .. 26,599 18 5
£28,284,503 11 8
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. B. W. JEANS, General Manager
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the
transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg- to report that
in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balinc e-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true
and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments were valued
at market pride or under.
London, 14th March, 1917. WELTON & BOND, Auditors.
Fate plays some ironic jests. It allowed
.Rieliard Nicholas Humberstone to earn the
King's and Queen's Medals in the Boer war
and score the D.C.M. in the present out-
break of Hell. Then it killed him the other,
day in a Sydney street with a prosaic tram.
Sergeant Walter Higgs, of the artillery,
who dibd of wounds in France the other day.
left Sydney witli the first batch, fought
through Gallipoli from landing to evacua-
tion. and had been in France ever since. And
when the end came he was only 21.
Bertram Chambers, 11. X.. who spent some
seasons at tin* Australian Naval College, got
an admiral’s job the other day. He still owns
a tall, well-upholstered wife with a creamy
complexion, and they have lately annexed
an abode and some acres near Plymouth for
use after the war.
"Kaipara”: Isaac Selby, one-time Free-
thought lecturer, afterwards Unitarian mini-
ster and opponent of Joe Syme, is still
making a hard light in Melbourne. After
lecturing on all celebrities from Shakspearo
to Ingersoll to audiences of 15 or 20, he has
now taken up war themes. The other night
be lectured on Sir Douglas Haig and the
generalship of the war. and spoke eloquently
for an hour and a half to IS people.
"Sarto” : This is how we’re winning the
war in our district. Recently a recruiting
sergeant, a returned soldier, visited Ilenty
(N.S.W.). During his stay he was told by
some storekeepers that they would not dis-
play. any posters in their windows because
they might lose the custom of the German
residents of the place! Three more cheers
for the '‘voluntary” system !
"Country Fed”: The Vic. State War
Council is appealing to the Minister of
education to pay returned soldiers who are
to be employed as teachers a minimum of
£l5O per annum, instead of £l2O. Very
good. But what about the returned soldier
teacher who was receiving the present mini-
mum when In* enlisted, say, in 1915 V All
lie gets is his subdivisions! promotion .(£.lO
per year), which brings his present screw to
£l4O.
“Billy B.”: I have been familiar
with only one hangman—Tom Long,
of Maoriland. Once I went to see
that lie attended to bis business properly.
Out of the group in the “waiting” room he
jovially lifted a man. "I’d give you a 7ft.
drop,” he said cordially. There was nothing
reverent about Long—nothing of the spirit
of Marlowe, tin l daddy of hangmen (English,
of course), who invented the long dron.
When Marlowe had a case in hand he said
grace before taking off his coat.
Adelaide means to keep up its record for
being Rather More Particular than other
cities. Chief-Secretary Styles tells the pic-
ture-show people that his Censorship Board
must be revived. It went into recess when
the Federal censorship started, arguing that
there ivas no need to double-bank the job.
But now “the Commonwealth Censors
Board has not proved quite satisfactory,
and we recognise that we have a duty to
perform here.... The morals, of the. com-
munity must be protected.” They are to be
protected 'by T. E. Smith. Inspector of
Amusements, with Styles himself, the Police-
Commissioner, two doctors, and old cricketer
Harry Blinman, now Under-Secretary of S.
Aus.
Roger 11. Moey-Levy was lately handed
two months’ gaol for wearing an officer's
uniform without authority in London. At
the trial Levy was officially described as “a
man of fine military capacity and courage,
ruined by fast living and a craving for
swank.” Moey-Levy began in Australia as
a private, but got a commission and served
in Egypt. He was dismissed for drunken-
ness and sent. home. Being a qualified
master-mariner he easily got to England,
and then to Canada, where he joined the
Mounted Rifles, became a scout-sergeant and
was picked for service in England with the
Royal Flying Corps. Within a few weeks
lie was selected for a commission; then; his
passion for swank got hold of him and he
finished up by putting up the stars and cut-
ting a dash among West End swelldom as
“Captain Maxwell Farnham.” He is only
25.
N. S. Wales Divorce Court lias re-
fused. to follow the British practice of
allowing “service” on soldiers ; and it seems
a fair thing. Justice Gordon hit the legal
nail in the right place lately when, in
refusing an application for substituted ser-
vice, he reckoned that “soldiers actively
serving their country in the field should not
be embarrassed by legal process when they
had no opportunity of getting advice about
their position and rights.” Besides, one
Devil’s. Brigade is enough for any man to
deal with at a time.
The Vic. Farmers' Union came out with a
flourish of trumpets during the preliminaries
of the recent election campaign, subsided by
degrees and finally dropped out altogether
behind the swarm of war-winners. Now.
however, the Farmers have emerged again,
and are going to run candidates for a large
bunch of State seats. This time they are
likely to keep their promise, since prefer-
ential voting will enable them to go ahead
without falling over their own mostly-Lib-
eral feet. Only members of the V.F.U. are
eligible for selection, under the most rigor-
ous machine-made system that can be de-
vised, so it will be interesting to see if the
rod will be kissed by any of those untram-
melled Liberals for whose seats tenders have
already been called. Among those marked
down are Alf Billson, who represents Ovens
and is a frequent critic of the present Gov-
ernment, speaking with some authority as an
ex-Minister for Railways and Education;
the two Grays, Achilles and John, the latter
an ex-Minister and both representing irriga-
tion areas. Also Hugh Campbell from Port-
land, and squatting Dave Oman, of Hamp-
den; the McKenzie pair. Hugh (Railways)
and Malcolm; Tom Livingston (Mines and
Forests), and crusted old Jimmy Farrer, of
Barwon. Laborites Chatham and Tunne-
cliffe are also to be given a go.


CATASTROPHE
(m-, ■&) v
cX
r>
({Q\
o .jam
fc.
n
5
□
s.
/
LOW
1
Master-Painters’ Association Urges Everyone to Support the Big Australian Industry.
4t the recent visit to Meat’s Linseed Oil Mills, at Parramatta, of forty-five representatives of the Master-Painters’ Association
IT p“ ?l ATr Tj R inrisev and the Secretary, Mr. W. Mason, emphasised in their speeches that but for Meggitt s Mills the
tr-fdfto-lk v would be without supplies. Meggitt’s were standing by them splendidly; they all realised that there was no better
oil on the world’s markets, and for of Australia and themselves all should loyally stand behind the big Australian m us Iy.
From all Stores, or tull particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne ; Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
THE SING-SONG OF THE
BOY ON THE TIN.
My clothes ore blue and very : wet, all
splashed, with paint and oil.
There s one word for Meggitt s~-tt s m
Royal.
All the day I m hard at work, mixing
at such a. rate
All Australia s calling. Igo to every
State.
By ALISON FRASER
(io x / 2 Years).
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers
26 King Street,
Sydney.
N.S.W


&
// ■/
j KEEPING
J F,T "
rßornan
Rings,
Oumbells
and
Indian Clubs
will develop the
..uiscfoo and add to
the chest measurement
of man who lives a
sedentary life and who
never takes exercise or
exerts himself physically,
but
1 FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
develops brain power, energy,
strengthens the nerves and
aids the digestion..
It also banishes Headache,
Backache, Malaria, Rheuma-
tism and Neuralgia, and
compensates the system for
the waste occasioned by too
violent exercise or prolonged
physical exertion.
STRONG IN DIGESTIVES
RICH IN PHOSPHATES
ALL CHEMISTS 4 STORES
"I j- per Bottle. Four times the quantity 2/6
Chemists,
337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. .
F.155.P
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing 1 Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
R
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Meats Ear Phone nia , ny times as efficient
. NI . . . , an d powerful as the old
model. degrees of sound in eight
ln ?tantly. changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on even) occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 OEOROE STREET,
Tel 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearB Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
yfUSTRALIAN
PRODUCTS
SScNAVY
PICKLES
That ProLiant
Product
the
Fruity Flavour
. ' ' '
■MB
' < „ ' 7"
1
!«*M »k M uH«*W«»'>‘'
- For -
Quality
Unequalled.
YUM-YUW
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
yWanu/acAjre d bxj
j &
food SpecMMs Sydney
BRITISH MADE
from Australasian Wool.
JASON
HOSIERY
THE woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier and more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them, what an exifltant feeling she has of lightness,
buoyancy and freedom. On the top of this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that come
of being well-dressed and knowing it. For Bostock
shoes are always ■ designed with one eye on the
fashions of the day and one eye on the ultimate sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting and so easy, that they feel just like one’s best-
loved old pair, yet so dainty, so ‘original, so
thoroughly well-made that they look and, after quite
a lo* r.* y r-\- continue to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable.
Bostock No.
/
/
'
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
831
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Rostock" on the soles.
rn
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
In This Age of Economy
the use of BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS is necessary, because they
not only shine but preserve the leather.
ROSTOCK’S VIOLO CREAM for Patent Leather and Glace Kid gives a
brilliant polish, and keeps the leather soft and pliable.
Colors—Black, Brown, Dark Brown and White.
In 2oz. Tubes, Gd.; 4oz. Bottles, 1/-. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., SYDNEY.
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL ®. CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Fanning and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine=Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the soreness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
“SWAN SAFETY
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
se
The
Soldiers
Pen
Catalogue free on request. ~
MArilE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOBIT OF
17 6 will purchase a Cert
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 lO
£875 O
V
ficate for £1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win tVie War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.'
Application forms and all information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. VUth March, 1917
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character ) trill
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Bis T.: We’ll have to wait till after the
war to clear up that sort of idiocy. Till then it’s
prejudicial to recruiting, or subversive of discipline,
or something of the sort.... Capitatio: You may have
a grievance; but you haven’t managed to let us know
what it is. .. .4217 Gunner: Yes, but has he lost his
job?. .. .C.J.K.: Yes, but it’s ancient. .. .Lord Tooth-
pick: Ditto, ’only more 50.... Norseman: Is there no
ink in that school?... .Constant Reader: Thanks....
Edgar L. S.: Quite right; but you’ll never see the
end of that war—-nor anybody else... .Mubruana:
Only one yarn older than that and Methuselah, the
Censor, wouldn’t allow us to republish it. .. .Kate B.:
Will waive the point. Send it a10ng.... Sophie N.:
The Bulletin never made'such a dreadful indictment
against the results of 19 centuries of Christianity ;-s
you and St. Paul supply.... Bellevive: God’s in 11 is
heaven, so the judgment fails:-,
THE FATAL WITNESS.
“Upon your gory corpse
With triumph I’ll gloat.”
Cried a miscreant as lie grasped
lie’s wife by the throat.
He struck her down with a club,
. And ns. her life blood did flow,
Upon her gashed skull
lie dealt a second blow.
Witnessed was the crime
Of the drink-fronzie'd one.
Through a crevice of the den,
By he’s crippled son ;
Whose evidence condemned
The grim monster’s life;
Revenged upon the gallows
Was he’s murdered wife.
....Rover: It’s harmless, but lacks novelty....
C.W.R.: Nothing new in if or freshly put....R.5.:
Won’t work. .. . A. 11.: Nothing in “Local Color.”
....Mark Adi-long: The facts that some person can’t
pronounce the letter R and-that a writer of a work
oil English Grammar makes a uidiculous mistake
don’t, prove us wrong.... 8.D.5.: Doesn’t hold in-
terest. .. .Immature M.: “Trade with Enemy”
bright, but not much yarn.. . . A.TT.N.: Verse moves
painfully to obscure thought... .L. 8.: You have a
long way to go yet. Learn respcit for rhyme and
form. .. .G..T.11.: A touch'here and there might have
saved it... . Vagabond : Can’t let you win it in this
paper. .. .G.S. : Verses not tip K.G.: You speak
of his “broad shoulders and pleasant face blending
well.” How? Did he have chloroform?..;.
E.W.McE.: Five closely and infernally written pages
to sax- a tank fell off a roof and a man swore. . . .
L.G. : Even in “Hell” they shouldn’t tolerate the
rhymes “owe —move —love” in one stanza. ... 11. M.:
Pleasing, luff not strong enough.... W..T.11.: Runs
too thin... .G.8.D.: Well, if you want ministers
to sing the commonplace words, send them to them.
We can find as good any day in the W.P.B
LA.: Dull yarn of the obvious sort... .S.H.V.:
Not enough thought between “clummety dumbs.”
M.T.O.: Sure you’re fifteen ?.... B.B.: It has
a melody as of a hidden still in the leafy ways of
booze... .Rustler: Misses.... .Caroline: Send it to
some young ladies’ journal.... Square Dinkum : Poor
verse. Could have said it all in 20 lines J.R.:
No use.... V.R.E.: Heavy, dull, uninspired....
F. 0.8.: Awful... .J.C.: Not much idea of verse or
grammar either.... (iY.H.: Some ot it seems to
mean something K.1.A.: Not up... . T.F.G.: Not
for us. No idea whether you could sell it. Strange
tilings find a market A.W.11.: No Loony
Larry: It’s never too late to end V.T.: You have
'a vivid fancy:—
He thought he had a soft thing on,
When lie tackled Briton.
He’ll change his mind when his country’s gone
And he finds out where he’s sittin.
His bones will be collected,
And buried in a well;
His soul will be protected,
By the manager down in H —l.
. ...A.W.8.: Thin rhymes and bumpy verse....
L. : “Dress” is the usual pouring out of unat-
tractive words about nothing C.F.A.W.: Pose and
twaddle. ...J .11.: “Moon Madness” no use.... LAV.:
Very lame Glenda: Hopeless., VI.: Rough
verse; no point. If you want copy back send stamps
with it... .P.W ,S.: Not interested in Pocahontas or
any other savage dished up in had verse.... Ha refield:
Doesn’t grip or amuse 1.D.: Not for us; but you
have our sympathy J.R.: Walk in, as you’re so
insistent:—•
I know a quiet suburb, where there are nice trees and
flowers,
And Avenues, and structures white as snow, where
folks don’t venture out at night,
And stay at home all day, and never talk or read.
Hence the war
L iom them brings forth no word of comment.
Place and Power with them—don’t count.
For on each whitened structure is An Epitaph.
J.A.O.: You don’t give it the stained-glass set-
ting an event like that demands H.J.8.: Gentle
wobbling sort of stuff Tiki: “Sport” preachy;
“Hills” too obvious Tom R.: An idea; but treat-
ment all wallow and bump Cableite: Good plea;
bad verse H.H.8.: Brightly written, but there’s
no story there.... Gham: Not. much hope of love-
tenderness in the porpoise-like rolling of a metre like
that... .A. 11.: Not up.. . .8.5.: Sorry ; doesn’t strike
us Nairda: Try again L. 8.: Did you send us
M, Pal before i Somebody did ; and it seems
strange that two Australians should write the same
thing and give it a distinctively American flavor....
T.P.: If you look again, Sandy- mon, ye may
see the humor of it, ye ken. Incidentally, nobody
knows better than this paper thq disappointment
that -the staff feels and nobody is more sympathetic.'
... .Les: Well, maybe General Brusiloff is Ilector
McDonaid. No doubt Kitchener will enlighten us
on the point when he returns from Germany, where
lie is a prisoner, as any bottle-nose in any tap-room
can tell you D.F.F.: Don’t want a second helping
thanks.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M E.: Rough stuff.... S.C.: Don’t try to run yet.
. ...P.H.C 1 .: You have youth and enterprise; but
not enough skill or stamps. ... Dug P.: All “duds.”
Syd E.W.: Please explain it to yourself. Was
the second comic Scotchman an Englishman in dis-
guise? G.E.R.: Figures wooden; jest tinny
E.A.P.: Your drunk is cold sober at the top of his
lamp-post W.T.R.: Probably outed. You can’t
draw well enough to stand a sporting chance
Bill: It’s a recent London Punch gag... .E.N.: Don’t
scratch. You can’t hide all your young defects that
wav....Mac: The gag is an old friend. It walked
in and took the spare chair at once A.McI.: Its
proper refuge is some kind friend’s album. *.
Stremp: Can’t use it Alec: Going home.., ,D.G.:
Pass.... Frank M.: Joke creaks like an unoiled wind-
mill. .. .R.W.C.: No humor G.H.T.: Your parson
isn’t real... .S.E.: Let’s forget and forgive.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
fjrx&af.
‘Si&L
wzwm
‘SWsP
sX
tit?
■?'jy
>r
fee?
IfS:.
gfPF|
;-'r- £
?**3r »
s-ar
>i<^:
mm
r:g
scs
v
V"
P 5
S--CA-
MT -
oy
BH
ek^>3s
F*s
bSp
P
.
3&g
sii
■
V!
am
Q
f/
■
ft y /
a
X 3
/, U i
Bl
* m
V
?
>A
m
v*
g
as
X
j i ■} 1
■)&£&<*%
4S
iiist«f
! «
>»x
■■
sg£!@
? «fc»;
***{
IS
,
sll
••Xv
?V>'vS/* w .
%
■' J *-"~- 1 'A'-''-*‘' > ‘"--' -‘
ISwSS-3;SS^
VMgtinMSMPar
'”X*. V~
:<eciß»»*wr--aV' *
v\
: ’< vf]
o '- -
V
'*; -w^rrotgfi^
%^-v.' ■' : -T.-
£ '.Xv
a*
&.
•
.
f*-fcwss
ISS&4g£
fc SS?®;
im®
•v.'Kei
*****&£%*
m
<*?■&
<| '-;-
S^fes»s«s23^«
-v'3'.<;-'
v-4
l
sXIx
jacfti
a'
■&*!.
il^Sig*
(
N
yfefe-
>V
IX:--
in
ill
k#
j'S®
\
Ka?S
.
gp
:;..-X;-'
(
mmmrn
msmam
)
o.‘>
/
1»
Xf
f«3
$'X '^rtS"
.•^ ?,ir
k \
E»
»a
.
M
m0~:
1&
:C
§1
jg.-'i
-■■■g* . ■T'ZGZhrfl
-dvSjai
IP#
'<g^r
V&
§\
-:.rgf
w
Wg
It
V't&Pi'&M W*
;!
i.vgscr
WOZ&*
-^r4j2a
; ;•
-x-
-iPE
,' c tf.^ v
M
i %
,^-'-
Wa
K
m€cj
■-< *?■ < .' v - TSWaB 5,
/r ;:>
<<■ >
X-
* r ’
.C^--
II
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Or Akim h 00,
Knows that the
Is work to do.
At the front the
Bovs are ray
o ./
Knowing COBRA’S
On the way.
In the work of
Cleaning France
Generals will not
Take a chance.
4 ‘Someth in o' big is
o o
On!” all say.
“COBRA’S going
Up to-day!”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamer® all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lid.,
Tel.—City 4280, 2, 4. G Spring Street,
4287, ’ c j
4810. Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leuves Sydney, June 16.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, June 20.
Leaves Sydney, June 23.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, June 27.
Leaves Sydney, June 30.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping Cm
S.A. and \V.A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, June 10.
•Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hiiiilving, Public Companies, &c.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £95,000
Directors: Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman; George
J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ;
Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.; George F. Todman,
Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY. (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:—BRISBANE: 264 Queen St. Inspector
for Queensland: .7. N. H. Brown. Manager:
G. H. Howell. MELBOURNE: 825 Collins St.
Manager: M. B. Finney. LONDON: 37 Thread-
needle St., E.C. Manager : A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 places throughout New South Wales and
Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of Aus-
tralia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all Chief
Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £l^ooo,ooo.
Directors: TlfOS. WELSHY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, lit. (Deputv Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIJLP, Iv.C.M.G. ; Hon. A J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. . . .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
Ml new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [Med.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. ■ Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of ||eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinarv Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
CHANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods; and
transacts ail other uiu&l Banking busineu.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mall Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of tlie United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS. ,
An Unrivalled Ho’'day in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers-
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD M 9 Bridge Street.
rgs
erg
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
ser
£3,894,980
£2,800.000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles li. Maeliellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydnsy. London Office— 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
.T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
gse
Jfiank* f HustraKa
SYDNEY. |
Open
for a.ll
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 A S encics at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June , 1916 DENISON MILLER. Governor
THRIFT SUGGESTIONS
Thrift does not require superior courage, nor superior intellect, nor any supei’human
virtue. It merely requires a little patient self-denial. .“BEGIN” is its device.
Even 1/- a week deposited regularly in this Bank will amount to £2O/10/7 in
seven years.
This Bank Offers You Every Facility for Saving.
Deposits received from
1/- upwards.
132 Branches and 500
Agencies throughout
the State.
U 4
INTEREST
Interest paid at
3?4% P er annum on
every £ up to £5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
PARINGA, Saturday, June IC.
MORIALTA, Saturday, June 23.
RUPARA, Saturday, June 30.
Transhipping to all other Queensland Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
t le fiist Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. TUILL & CO.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY'.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,”
"Riverina,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
“ Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Kitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
„„„„„ MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorg'e Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
A
to
MERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. . 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
FOR
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(Spillarine
CAPILLARINE is a true hair-
grower, and never fails to produce
a strong growth of hair on the
upper lip. Hundreds have proved
its efficacy. Why not send for a
iar to-da.v ?
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, •“ "Kg? B *'
Established over 30 Years.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British AustbalasiaN
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tlw
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


/
mi
Ip
&S&K
I las
wmr.
WH 3 •■• • .
ealsws
lip
#4^
w&m
m
§#v
mmm
mm&rm
M &m 4
MM
m
: ?Vr
PSP
in
IliSilli!
pp@p|
#Hi
pf^
wmm
kL'j’-'ii'i*
*OM
mm
F _«BT"F
Flat Roofs Made
Waterproof
FEW roofing materials can long
meet the requirements of a flat roof.
Absolute imperviousness to water is a hard test
to meet. If you wish to have an absolutely tight and
lasting roofing on a flat-topped building, specify
Certain-teed
Reinforced Flat Roof
This is a superior type of built-up roof. It is built up on the job from alternate
layers of Certain-teed Roofing and Certain-teed Asphalt Cemenh It as
a smooth surface, washed clean by every shower. Always sanitary. Certain-
teed Reinforced Flat Roofs are spark-proof and fire-retarding. They are
unaffected by fumes, vapors, gases or acids. No painting required. And
they are fully guaranteed.
Our local representative will be glad to show you samples of this roof
and other Certain-teed Products. Write or call.
Mr. C.C. McCann—Perpetual Trustee Bldg., Sydney, N. S. W.. Representative of
Certain-te2d Products Corporation
Proprietors of s General Roofing Manufacturing Co,
Gregg Varnish Co. Mound City Paint & Color Co,
Wholesale Distributors.
NEW SOUTH WALES: John Hanks & Son Pt.y. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: John Hanks & Son Pty. Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLANH: James Campbell & Sons Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Gawler Place, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: McLean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 104 Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: W. Hart & Sons, Charles Street, Launceston; Tattersall te Co. Ltd.,
Wilson Street, Burnie; T. J. Cane & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C3M.G., M.L.C. ; lion. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.', Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern, Esq. Consulting Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £30,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its accion is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
There are Diamonds
and Diamonds,
just as there are Bank Notes and Bank
Notes.
One is a one-pound Note, and one
Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l2/12/-
Five Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l2/12/-
Two Fine
Diamonds, set
in Platinum,
£l5.
So ’tis with Diamonds. One Diamond is like a flash of brilliancy by night. Another Diamo d
is dead and dull. One is perfect in blue-white color, another is “oft” color. Both are Diam ..
As sole agents for one of the largest Diamond Cutters of Amsterdam and London, we handle,
first-hand only, the Best Grade of Gems; but our prices will be found to be lower uiuay
charged for lower grades. Our agency demanded an enormous turnover, and to do it we had t
quote to the trade at a mere commision on landed cost.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & *5 HUNTER STREET.
rg
The mart of superior
{motor carservtco'
A
!*f£.
i
V»
serg
ThtmarA ofsuptrfon
]*r olorcar'frvi'cg
Everywhere Hupmobile dealers are offering the evidence of Hupmobile performance
to help motor-car buyers settle the question of which automobile to buy.
TF YOU ask the dealer to demonstrate “pick-up” he will send the car from a
stand to 25 miles an hour within ten seconds. Or he will slow the speed to
5 miles an hour on high and then accelerate to 50 —smoothly and silently.
If you want high-gear hill-climbing d monstrated, say so: for if the Hupmobile
excels in any one of its virtues, it is pulling power on high gear.
Lacking a hill, ask to have the car pull through deep sand or mud on high, and
see how easily it is done.
Watch how beautifully it handles on high gear; how easily it steeis, what short
turns can be made; how nimble it is in the getaway with other cars. Yet it is a
big. comfortable car. And at slow speed or high speed or moderate speed, notice
how little motor vibration you feel.
We have told you what to expect from the Hupmobile.
Now have a performance test of several cars if you want the question decided to
your own satisfaction.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
T , - o. sra tpr with detachable winter tops. Motor: Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (32in. x 5Jin.).
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, ,-seater, sedan, 5 J " ... f .|ut-h™ Rear Axle floatin”- type, spiral bevel gear. Cam shaft and crank shaft bearings bronze shell, babbitt
Transmission: Three forward speeds and reverse; mu_ tiple disc 8 75 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2-*and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 4iin. on 7-seater. Electric
lined. Fong wheel base (119in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134in. oni ■ ' ick _ actin(r side curtains; door curtain carriers; deep upholstery; speedometer; ammeter; robe rail, foot
starting and lighting; ventilating rain vision screen or demolmta ble rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full set of tools. Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khalu
rail and carpet in tonneau; non-skid res an rear, =
hood and seat covers at small additional cost o\er list puce of car.
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, XJ.S.A.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


TO STOP FALLING HAIR.
Falling hair —the forerunner of baldness —-
is nearly always due to the presence of a
parasite known as the dandruff germ. If
your hair falls out the chances are ten to
one that the dandruff germ is the cause of
it, and you cannot do better than to get
your chemist to make you up a bottle of the
old reliable formula, consisting of 3oz. of
Bay Rum, loz. Lavona de Composee, and
!-dram Menthol Crystal. Apply night and
morning, rubbing briskly into the scalp with
the finger-tips. This preparation, which
enjoys a world-wide reputation as a hair-
grower and dandruff-destroyer, is claimed by
many to restore grey hair to its original
color as well as making the hair grow, and
destroying the dandruff germ.— Advt.
The Finney
FIT-U BEST
Hand-
Tailored
Suit,
b» & 3/
S'^
Here’s Your Weather
(You can no longer make that an excuse)
and Here’s Your Suit.
IT’S A FINNEY FIT-U-BEST i
HAND-TAILORED SUIT AT...
HAND TAILORED so well that both you and your pocket-book
will be better pleased six months after you buy it.
HAND TAILORED inside and out —one for appearance, one for
permanency.
IN SHORT: 84/- at Finney’s buys you the “Fit-u-best’ hand-
tailored Suit which, in every “jot and tittle” of its Material and
Making, is as fine as any living man need wear —whether he has a
“fiver” a week and hopes—or two thousand a year and complications.
JUST DROP US A POST CARD and we’ll Post
you a Batch of Samples by Return.
FINNEY’S
Rough - rider
HAT
This is just the hat for every Bushman.
Just the hat to wear when riding through
the bush at breakneck pace. The brim is
wide and shady—3l inches —specially
stiffened, cannot flop over the eyes. The
strap around crown can be adjusted to
make it fit tight with a “grip.” Impos-
sible to blow off. The color is a cool,
serviceable Brown, and the price is
12/6 ——no more than the cost of an
ordinary hat.
Send a Postal and your size; the hat
will reach you by return —post free.
SPECIAL
PRICE
126
POST
FREE.
The Drapers of
Queensland.
FINNEY, ISLES 8 CO., LTD.
The Big Block,
Brisbane.
S 3
The
Finney
ROUGH-
RIDER
Hat,
12/6
IN BANANA LAND
T. C. Beirne’s five thousand against Bris-
bane Sentinel marks the highest yet
awarded by Bananalancl courts for defama-
tion. Previous most was the £3300 John
Wren had to hand over to Dr. Ellerton, of
Woogaroo, and, before that, the straight
thousand lifted out of a Biggenden publican’s
till by an Anglican preacher.
Passed out in Brisbane, S. Richardson, a
Crimean veteran and a resident of Allora for
close on 50 years. A native of Yorkshire, he
hit Queensland back in ’64, and had managed
to weather the climate to the age of 86.
Allora is mourning also the passing of
another youth of 80 in Alex. Shannon—a
draught-horse specialist and a constant prize-
taker at Brisbane and Toowoomba.
The Northern climate again. R. Triffitt,
who reckons he is 99, bustled into the Rock-
hampton Bulletin the other day to thank
the local doctor for pulline- him through a
two-years’ illness !
“G.M.8.” : Here’s the latest big shout. At
the official opening of the new State Hotel
at Babinda. the Home Secretary invited all
and sundry to come and have one. Between
two and three hundred bent elbows at Jimmy
Government’s expense.
Robert Alexander, just dead at Warwick,
aged 80, emigrated as a youth fra’ Dumfries
to America, and several times was a ship-
mate with pilot Mark Twain on the Missis-
sippi. He came this way with the Gympie
rush.
“Val”: I hope Archbishop Mannix is cute
enough to cancel that contract for Man-
churian oak for the R.C. College at Mel-
bourne Uni. and order Bananaland timber
instead. If he has any hesitation about
doing so I invite him to take a trip to Bris-
bane and examine the large mantels made
of native timbers in the Executive Building.
These are left unpolished, so that the beauty
of the grain may be better seen. They are our
prize exhibits when any visitor interested in
forestry comes here. If there is a live
official in the State service he will send one
of the cards containing veneers of Banana-
land woods, polished and unpolished, for his
Grace’s inspection.
"McNorth” sends along a few friends :
New Guinea has had its share of restless, adven-
turous spirits. Amongst them was old Bill Buehannan,
the “king of the West,” who lived alone on the Gulf
of Papua 160 miles west of Moresby, and traded for
copra. On his rare visits to civilisation, as repre-
sented by Moresby, the drinks were on Buehannan.
Armed with a dinner-bell he would parade the street
and invite the settlement to give it a name.
Then there was Max Assmann, the trader who lived
for many years at Lese. Lese was a sand-island, and
one night the Pacific rose and swallowed it. Assmann
punted his gear across to the mainland and built
another trading station. He died a while back at
sea aboard his cutter, and the niggers set his body
adrift in a canoe.
Next there was “German” Harry, a Netherlander,
who knew the Pacific as a Sydney newsboy knows
George-street. And old Jimmy Robertson, who cap-
tained “German” Harry’s ketch Jeera whenever she
left New Guinea waters, because, although an able
seaman, Harry had no master’s ticket. Robertson
was a doer who alternated adventure with prayer.
Toughest of the seafaring crowd of those day's was
Nicholas Minister, better known as Nicholas the
Greek, the man about whom so many Ties are told
and the truth hidden. Nick was only about so high,
but he was the most concentrated bundle of devil
A SPIRITUAL GRACE.
THE WOWSER: “My -poor afflicted friend, was your deceased wife a Chri tian?”
AFFLICTED PARTY : “I think she was, Boss. She always give me my meals reg'lar?"
that ever ran a ’birder. His small, frail body was
covered with scars—mementoes from friendly canni-
bals.
Finnegan, who discovered the Papuan goldfield that
bears his name, and which resembled a jeweller’s shop,
was of the true prospecting type. He was a red-
haired giant with enormous hands and feet, and it
was his habit to quietly slip away into the unknown
interior with a swag and prospecting gear and return
a few months later with a hefty “shammy.”
Amongst the women who roughed it Mrs. MacCrann
is best remembered. In her youth she went with her
husband from the eastern coast of Australia to the
far Nor’-west. And in those days the blacks were
bad. In New Guinea waters on one occasion this
plucky woman was picked up holding on to an air-
cushion. She had been on a visit to her plantation
some hundreds of miles away and the canoe in which
she was travelling had swamped. Except for the
native rowers she was quite alone. Most of these
people are dead now, and with them went a pic-
turesque past. About the time British New Guinea
changed its name to Papua, the country began its
rapid descent into respectability and starched clothes.
“F. 8.”: The Queensland Government has
put a lot of money into station properties
in the Far North. These ventures were paid
for with debentures. The cattle thus bought
are now being sold ; and it is alleged that the
proceeds are paid into the Consolidated
Revenue. Is that so? If it is, then it is
tantamount to using loan money to swell
revenue.
“Barbwire”: Passing through Copra-
manna Lutheran Mission Station country,
the headquarters of jvhich is on the crossing
of the Cooper, I came on a couple of abos.
and a gin. I vainly endeavored to obtain
some information re water, etc., from the
first buck, and then asked, “What name
white fellar boss sit down longa Copra-
manna?” The nigger displayed sets of
ivory that would tear the flesh from a
gohanna from tail to head in one rip. “No
more white fellar sit down there, only plurry
German.” he said.
Home Sec. Huxham has just opened his
first State pub at Babinda and returns with
the joyful tidings that on the first day the bar
trade brought in £GO-odd, while the billiard-
tables contributed £5 towards wiping out the
next deficit. The Home Sec. also alleges that
he received an offer of £50,000 for the whole
outfit, or a rental of £5OOO per annum. Yet
Babinda, even in the cane-cutting season,
has a population of only about 1000. The
new pub will not be able to house many of
these; but it will sell long beers for sixpence,
which is a matter of the utmost moment
north of Capricorn.
The facility with which black brudder
acquires the vices of the white man and re-
jects his virtues makes him take on hypoc-
risy as a matter of course. One of him, in
reply to “Guilty or not guilty?” at a north-
ern court recently, fixed his eye on a distant
corner of the room and said sonorously: “I
have sinned against Heaven and in Thy
sight, and am no more worthy to be
called Thy son.” His Wus-up, taking into
consideration the fact that this was the
accused’s fourth offence, helped him to the
limit, and the holy light in Binghi’s eyes
flickered and died forthwith.
Good sport, good Australian, good fellow
altogether, Arnold Wienholt, ex-M.L.A.., now
on active service in German East Africa, has
been awarded the Military Cross. Taken
prisoner by the Germans last year, he ulti-
mately managed to escape, and, after a spell
recuperating, is now back with the columns
that are harassing the Hun in the only
Teuton colony not yet completely conquered.
The Sentinel, the yellow-pupper against
which T. C. Beirne was awarded £5OOO
damages the other day, has a circulation of
425. While it is looking for the money
the Sentinel can try to console itself with
the thought that this is probably the first
time on record that a paper has been found
to be influential enough to do any man
£ll 15s. worth of damage with every copy
circulated.
The Way of It.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To win the Lady Mary’s love, and eke her
father’s land,
There came a-many gallant knights, each
with his glitt’ring band.
(Oh, the cold grey eyes of my lady!)
They knelt before her as she sate in her
great high-backed chair.
They poured for gift at her slim feet a
wealth of, jewel ware.
(Oh, the pale curved lips of my lady !)
Necklets of amethyst they brought, and sea-
pearls whitely cold,
And emeralds and ciir.vsoprase to gem her
hair’s red gold.
(Oh, the dear gold head of my lady!)
Each day the splintered lances broke, each
day new wounds were red,
And on their cloven tourney shields three
knights were carried dead.
(Oh, the pink-tipp’d hands of my lady!)
But all their deeds and all their prayers and
all their jewels rare
No light could bring to her cold eyes, nor
warm her heart to care.
(Oh, the weary eyes of my lady!)
Then, on a day, a stranger knight strode
down the rush-strewn hall;
Boldly he drew her ’neath his shield, and
clasped her, ’fore them all.
(Oh, the glad brave look of my lady!)
“I bring no gifts, fair maid,” he said, “of
pearl or amethyst,
“Nor will I plead upon my knees and leave
your lips unkist,”
(Oh, the warm red lips of my lady!)
“The sword I wear is edged with deeds, and
I your knight will be.
O fairest rose of Christendom, while life
shall dwell in me!”
(Oh, the clinging arms of my lady!)
A fool is he who bends the knee to softly
supplicate,
For he who grasps and he who holds ’tis he
who wins his mate.
(Oh, the woman’s heart of my lady!)
BANANALAND.
EDITH SHIRLEY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 9, 1917.
My Deak Tiiargomindah,—
The Repatriation Fund had a day out
during the week and didn't do so badly.
There was a procession, of course, and
sports at the Exhibition Ground. And if I
were to whisper that the rattle of the girls'
collecting boxes was like hail upon the roof
you wouldn’t be surprised, would you?
Returned soldiers and trainees in camp led
the procession, followed by about 25 pretty
girls in neat riding costumes jogging along
in the saddle, each towing a riderless horse.
They didn’t have far to go unaccompanied.
Our next raid will be on Wattle Day,
July 13, and the rake-off is to provide arti-
ficial limbs tor wounded soldiers.
Artist Elizabeth Lahey has skied her
brushes and grabbed a spade. She went to
England to be near her soldier brothers,
hoping, incidentally, to do some study ; but
most of the galleries are closed, and potatoes
are the demand of the hour, so—what could
the poor girl do?
Last Saturday an At Home and coin tea
was held at Loretto, the hostel over which
the Sisters of Mercy preside. The Soldiers’
Residential Club was the object of assist-
ance. Several more entertainments for the
same cause are presently due, among them
a concert at the Exhibition Hall on June 26.
The Crfeche and Kindergarten Association
held its annual meeting the other dav. The
report showed that 650 children attend
the ’gartens each week, and about 270 are
made honorary members of the crfeches. A
handy £l2OO is in the bank.
J. A. Robinson, one of the staff at the
Teachers’ Training College in peace days,
is now a major with an M.C.
Austen Lennon, another man who can
display the M.C., is a son of Minister
Lennon. He has won to rank of captain
and has two brothers in khaki.
E. M. Smith, 1.5.0., Surveyor-General of
S. Australia, is staying at the Belle Vue.
lie will sample the sunshine in North
Queensland for a while.
Died this week, Miss Elsie McDougall.
eldest daughter of the late Ronald
McDougall, of Dalreel (N.S.W.L and of
Mrs. Philpott, Brisbane. Ever since the
war began Miss McDougall had used her
slight strength for the benefit of enlisted
men. All the battlers don’t meet their death
at the Front 1
A “knitting fortnight” in aid of the
Queensland Comforts Fund begins on June
15. Socks, mittens and kneecaps are most
urgently needed, and the secretary (she can
be found at Parbury House) will be glad
to receive several thousand pairs of all of
them.
On Friday night the council of the Art
Society went in a body to see Mrs. Muntz
Adams’s paintings at the Technical College.
This was the Society’s formal welcome to
the lady, all the members being too tied up
with war work to philander with a merely
frivolous gathering.
Mrs. and Miss Rainbow, of Sydney, gave
a dinner-party at the Belle Vue the other
night. A bunch of pink ribbons hung from
the ceiling; and to the end of each streamer
was tied a posy of pink sweet peas, which
reposed on the plate of every guest. Mother
and daughter have been tea-ed and dined and
have dined and tea-ed relentlessly since their
arrival. It will be a cold day for some of
us, my dear, when we get to bread-tickets.
Corporal A. G. Edwards, son of A. A.
Edwards, of Chevy Chase, Mitchell, was the
second of four sons to make the big sacrifice.
Ho put up the fine record of 205 consecutive
days on Gallipoli, went to France with the
first batch of Australians, was wounded at
Pozieres, and, after a spell in a school of
instruction, had been back on the job a few
weeks when he passed out at Bullecourt on
May 8. A few days previously Pte. J. M.
Edwards was reported killed in action. Pte.
F. R. C. Edwards is in France, and Pte.
O. W. Edwards, another Gallipoli man, is
helping to clean up the Holy Land.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


A CAR YOU ARE PROUD TO OWN
<r
mmm.
Jfe
,
~u 'j&q ■ sffi*
•>'•• .■ m.
■
t£
Built essentially for comfort-loving, quality folk —
Simple to drive —economical to maintain —dependable and durable —
famous for the many records it holds and for the general satisfaction afforded all owners —
Needed every day to make a full day’s work possible, bv the man on the land, the professional and
business man —
Backed by a service plan that is educational to the novice and preventive of trouble —a plan that
consists of free monthly inspections over a period of six months.
THE NEW SERIES “18
99
With a Hig'h-Tension Magneto
has only just been announced.
Buying has been heavy, and present limited stocks are diminishing rapidly.
It is advisable to write for particulars or make a demonstrating appointment now, while these new
model cars, with their many unusual and in most instances exclusive Studebaker features,
are obtainable at their old prices.
Soon prices will have to be advanced on account of the increased cost of materials and higher
freights, but even so there is a very real possibility of there not being enough cars to go
round this season.
Shipping space at any price is growing more difficult to secure all of the time.
’PHONE CITY 8892 or 3.
It will be a pleasure for us to demonstrate these new models over the roughest of roads for vou.
Of course the cars are electrically lighted and started, and in addition to a full complement of
tools include a spare tyre tube and rim at no additional cost.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
| Office and Showroom: 177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
State Importers: VICTORIA —Messrs. TURNER BROS., 398 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—THE CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LTD., 95-99 Pulteney Street, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—THE ARHSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, PERTH.
TASMANIA—W. GAH AG AN, Collins Street, HOBART ; CORRICK’S GARAGE, Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON.
NE.V ZEALAND—ADAMS LTD.. CHRISTCHURCH.


Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed :
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
ser
Carters
•ITTLE
IIVER
| PILLfc
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Dost,
Small Prloa,
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS,
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug: Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents :
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
Are YOU in Pain ?
WAWN’S
Wonder-Wool
Will Stop It! It is the most potent,
strongest, yet harmless pain-relieving
agent yet offered to sufferers.
WONDER-WOOL
creates an inner heat—quickens circulation
—dispels inflammation—restores the normal
flow of blood. It is impregnated with pain-
relieving essences. Wherever the pain is,
Wawn’s Wonder-Wool will stop it IMMEDI-
ATELY. It cures Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Backache, Gout, Lumbago, Abdominal
Pains, Sore Throat, Sprains, Chilblains,
Bronchitis, Colds and Coughs, Pleurisy,
Neuralgia, Headache. It acts like a charm
on Coughs and Colds. Great for Neuralgia
—unequalled for Neuritis. ’Tis a friend to
suffering humanity. Try it NOW.
All Chemists and Stores, 2/- per packet;
posted, 2/-
UROSAL
The Greatest Uric-Acid
Solvent Prepared.
A certain alleviate and cure for Rheuma-
tism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout, etc. Com-
pletely dissolves and thoroughly eliminates all
excess of Uric Acid from the system. Acts
also on the Liver, Kidneys and Bladder.
All Chemists, 2/6; posted, 2/9.
Use Wawn’s Wonder-Wool Externally.
Take “Urosal” Internally.
V. A. WAWN,
Manufacturing Chemist,
Grigor’s Pharmacy,
186 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
fl 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
l!
mb
§m
££*2ai!S
Hr a
5$
wm
mm
■«***■**
m
»
SBt*
ii3&*
Tn:
'■ <^mVv
ss
ftsa
NT
v
•,-fr
If*
ig=fsg;
as
i
mx
.
iSA
S*s
isfi
Vo#.?; .•;
r' Sk-7''s -°
Kg
SWwSt^S
3 3D
WBS
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World,
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved hjr
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Phosferine
Proven Remedy
mn
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely agedNe w Life and Energy.
See what a Well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority On all matters relating to health writes! —
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally,
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES, M.D., C.M.,
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton |& Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your eourtes:
With a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to M
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent In * "
| refunded to you.
•I if, being served
IQB Collins Street,
place, and the jeost of postage
st the package to 40S
r p, ~ r
5/4
Genuine
FOX’S
se r*<|>e
is always fashionable
Fasf Dye
See lhaf every Yard bears Trade
Marks as here Illustrated ••••
/Ivsfra/idn ffepresen/a/zras
Box. 1802 C PO Sydney.
BRITISH
M A. D E
gse
rg
£
</) <
SUNBEAM
experience of standardising extra-efficiency
in the guise of the increasing numbers of
UNBEAM-COATALEN
IRCRAFT ENGINES
being supplied to the British and the Allies’
Air Services, involving, as it does, perfection
of design, methods, workmanship and
materials, must inevitably exercise its
influence on our post-war production
of motor carriages for the public.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St., London, England
WORKS . • • • Wolverhampton, England
4
kN
ser
j/BxzUdzvL
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Exit John Lombard, at one time a notable
of the Bank of Australasia staff, and for
countless years manager at Ballarat. Many
of the ’Asia's “heads” attribute their success
to his training. Lombard was an Irishman,
looked a “swell” always, and was 00 when he
died in retirement at South Yarra.
The tetanus devil has been very active in
Sydney lately. And how swiftly it gets to
work! On May 19 a bank clerk fell
while playing football in Drummoyne Park.
His left arm was fractured, and the skin
broken. The arm was set, and all went well
for some days; but in the few moments that
the man lay on the ground the little imp
had found the break in the skin, and the
coroner’s verdict was given 11 days later.
Westralian Chamber of Mines has been
telling Minister for Mines Robinson how
to find new fields. It suggests business-like,
economic geological surveys by qualified
men, giving not only the accurate determina-
tion of the various rocks, but explanations
setting out the deductions to be drawn from
the various geological occurrences mapped,
and the possible economic value of the locali-
ties. A greater expenditure on tanks and
wells, to enable prospectors to examine at
leisure country at present inaccessible, and
deep boring are also urged.,
Someone in authority should keep an eye
on the patriotic two-stepping that goes on
here and there. The return from, say, 150
tickets at 3s. a head is not much to wave
flags over when the cost of the average
fashionable frivol has been deducted. The
argument for the defence that Billjim must
be amused, poor fellow, isn’t convincing
when you can only pick out about a dozen
soldiers in a sea of black-coated civilians.
The worst part of it is that Billjim is
always expected to pay for his ticket to the
dance allegedly organised for his benefit.
The other day when a shoal of 3s. patriotic
dance tickets blew into a camp the recipi-
ents glumly wondered where they were going
to raise the price of the civilian’s entertain-
ment.
“Musketoon”: “We don’t see The
Bulletin as often as we’d like,” a wounded
Billjim wrote me recently. “Here’s a choice
of addresses for any philanthropist with a
Bully and a penny stamp to spare: A
Wounded Australian Soldier, c/o 3rd Aus-
tralian General Hospital, Lemnos, via
Egypt; or 3rd London General Hospital,
Wandsworth, London ; AVoodcote Park Hos-
pital, Epsom, Surrey, England; Harefield
Park Hospital, Harefield, Bucks, England;
Australian Base Hospital, Helouan, near
Cairo, Egypt; Australian Base Hospital,
Malta; 2nd Australian General
Hospital, Ghezireh, Egypt; 17th Australian
General Hospital, Alexandria, Egypt; No. 2
Australian Stationary Hospital, Egypt.”
Mrs. A’ictor Sellheim, wife of the Vic. Adju-
tant-General, is literary by inheritance. Two
distinguished AVelshmen, who figured promi-
nently in England in the reigns of James and
Charles L, were ancestors on her mother’s
side. Thomas Howell was Bishop of Bris-
tol. His brother, James Howell, was Clerk
of the Council to Charles, and a staunch
Royalist. This annoyed Cromwell so much
that he rushed him into gaol, where he
stayed for seven years writing books. (They
didn’t teach prisoners useful trades in those
days.) The best-sellers are still in exist-
ence. His “Letters,” which were first col-
lected by the founder of Guy’s Hospital, are
counted among the curiosities of literature,
and make an intimate history of the period.
The “Letters” sometimes make you jump,
his personal opinion of contemporaries is so
lurid.
“Dokuit”: It was Sunday night. Amidst
a motley collection of bags, carry-alls and
fishing-rods, I managed to find room for my
feet on the rear platform of the last tram.
At the end of the first section a joyous party
of eight or more gathered their belongings
and poured themselves on to the road, leav-
ing a benevolent-looking old gent and myself
to share the seat between us. The tram was
under way again when my fellow-passenger
jumped up, grabbed a bag, and with a “Hi!
—somebody’s bag!” threw it towards the
fast-receding crowd of picnickers. Then we
rushed on into the night. A mile or so
nearer Sydney the conductor swung into
view with a brisk “Fares, please!” Sud-
denly his jaw fell. “Gorblime! Someone's
pinched me tucker bag!” The benevolent ass
who had thrown it away opened his mouth
as if about to confess. Then he thought
worse of it, grasped his whiskers firmly, and
filled himself with the air of reticence.
“Te Whare’s” confidences:—
The personality of Gould, the greatest of bird
authorities, is about as shadowy as that of the late
W. Shakspeare. Here are some facts. Gould spent
about two years in Australia with his wife Helena
(also an admirable bird artist) when William Denison
wore the cocked hat and epaulets, and Gould often
had his feet and his lady her crinoline under his
Ex.’s mahogany. Gould published his “Birds of
Australia” (in seven folio volumes at £ll5 —now
worth about £300), partly by subscription headed
by Victoria the Good. An old-time bookseller, C. B.
de Montille, once told me that he picked up some
parts of Gould’s magnum opus for the late Dr. George
Bennett at so low a price as 10s. apiece. Gould in
his last hours had certain of the plates intended
for his “Mammals of Australia” brought to his bed-
side, and considering that they lacked fidelity he
forbade their publication. His splendid works deal-
ing with our own birds, those of Asia, Africa and
New Guinea, not only blaze with color, but produce
for us the proper environment.
“Yambacoona”: “Wig” (B. 31/5/T7)
may be right in his objection to the appoint-
ment of a Luxuries Board when the inform-
ation it will gather must already be in the
hands of the Inter-State Commission; but
he does one member of the latter body an
injustice when he overlooks Lockyer’s con-
nection with the canteens. About'lB or 20
months ago Lockyer, on the eve of commenc-
ing six months’ leave from Inter-State Com-
mission duties, offered his honorary services
to the Defence Department. Colonel Wilson
(then Comptroller) having died in Egypt,
Lockyer was appointed Acting-Comptroller
of A.I.F. Canteens (camps and transports).
At the end of his six months’ leave he re-
offered his services and since then has been
doing the work in addition to attending to
his Commission duties— and he doesn’t get
overtime, either.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. W'/-
liave placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried bv thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; com pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
gse
THE FAMOUS
ADCRICXS SIWIWRO FOUR-CYOI DlGffll
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
Made by Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
See one of these engines working.
It will convince you; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of these qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OR CALL AT
Motor Showrooms: 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
53
f
-zti
N
S,
c^r
7
/
\
*
4U
5-Pv
■»
/
o
/ .
71
<2?
2?
£3
m
£2
£2
C
22
u
/
/
o'4'--
G RANNY CHAMBERLAIN
Sw (COPYBIGWTtD)
m
3?V*C
a
-k.'JAXS
Oil
27
'WELzt
n
Wet weather caused Phil’s bad cold. He got wet through
going to the office one morning and came home that night with an awful cold. But I
relied on my tried friends—Granny Chamberlain and Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy—to
get rid of it as quickly as possible. I gave him a few doses that night and he took a bottle
to the office next morning. That night he came home as well as ever.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
is certainly a preparation that can always be
depended upon to relieve colds at any time.
Any one who has had experience in the use
of Chamberlain's Cough Remedy will tell
you this. It is not necessary to take it in
time to get the best results for it relieves
colds—anybody’s cold—at any time.
I have found that when one has contracted
a cold it is no time to experiment. You
want to get rid of it as quickly as possible,
for every cold weakens the lungs, lowers
the vitality and paves the way for more
serious diseases.
“Now be sure
uou get
Chamberlain s’
G. (hcrtfve/l
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain’s
Tablets are a new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Diver and Bowels ; they have met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Liver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver. Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used they are a most popular medicine and everyone who has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PILLS and you would never wish to take another
dose of pills after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle in
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain's Tablets cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. per box.
DD
DQ
DD
t Q) \
BARfITCD
TALCUM PAWDCR
Mcmmcn CnvmcAkCd
\A.
/.nn/.rm/.nn.. .'
There is a Difference in Talcums
When “Mennen” found that the Italian Talc was the finest in
texture that money could buy, he secured the output of the
best mine in Italy. Such is the talc that is being used today in
Borated Talcum Powder
Not only is it the finest in texture, but through Mennen’s secret pro-
cess, all impurities and grit have been removed. It cannot scratch
FOR GROWN-UPS
Mennen’s Scented Toilet Talcums can be had in a variety
of Tints and Perfumes
Sen Yang— With a seductive yet illusive odor of the Orient.
Flesh Tint— Exquisitely perfumed with the odor of Roses,
and delicately tinted pink.
Violet— With the dainty scent of the delicate “Violette de
Parme.” .
Cream Tint— A “Rachel” powder, cream-colored and
scented with orange blossoms.
baby’s tender skin. Its borated quality makes it
healing and antiseptic when used for hives, rash
and other skin irritations common to babyhood.
INSIST ON THE GENUINE
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO,
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
Trade Mark
SAFEGUARD VOUR health
QtJ.Collis Browne's
CWorodync
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens
Seven
Prize Medals.
rg
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birmingham, Engrland.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
' •
PA
91
iHWift
/
ABBEY
SHOES
are the highest graxle in quality,
design and finish. They are the
choice of the man who dresses well,
and in good taste.
Being made in half- and full-sizes,
and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide—you are assured
comfort and perfection of fit.
We illustrate a very smart All-
Patent Oxford i Shoe. Very highest
grade.
Price, 35/- S 40|-
Tan Willow Calf, 32/6 and 357-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ab¥ey,
313 George Street,
Between G. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
HONTSERRAj
SAUCE
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
Fit
§
a n 0
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Wov
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Pi>opr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
|8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BREEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
fl 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it. will be posted to you for one year.
Little things that count,
Little things that please are shown in ever-changing
variety tor Presentation purposes at STEWART DAW-
SON’S —Headquarters for Gifts in Gold and Silver Jewel-
lery, etc.
Rolled Gold
Pocket
Knife, a
well-made
article, 10/0.
“Klip-Klip” Manicure. Best-quality, Silver-
plated Pocket Manicure, compact and convenient.
Price 2/6.
OUR NEW
CATALOGUE
is an excellent
money - saving
guide for tlie
gift-seeker. We
send it Post
Free.
G 074 2. —Pink Cameo Set
Oct. Gold Safety Pin
UrOOCh. Price 10/6.
C 6073 —Lady’s
Signet King,
9ct. Gold, 10/6.
15ct. Gold, 17/6.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sergser
'J&
■CTlie Modern
.22 Cal.
Rifle
A ttlodem ,22 caliber
repeating rifle must
Combine accuracy
with convenience and
safety. The Rfciningtoa
UMC Rejpeater has a solid
breech, is hammerlces, easily
taken apart and shoots with unfailing
" accuracy. Examine one at your dealers ot
send for descriptive Catalogue free upon requests
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO*
D. D. BRYANT, Mancger
Box 686, Melbourne
Remjnfoil
SAVE ELECTRIC LIGHT!
p*.
/ / \ \
! ! '
i
l a
Buy a “Dim-a-lite”
Attachment and turn
the light down
JUST LIRE, GAS!
There has hitherto been one, and only one, feasible reason
against the use of Electric Light. You had to have the
full light all the time —-an inconvenience in the sick-
room, and a source of waste with most of the house
lights.
NOW you can get the “Dim-a-lite” attachment, and, by simply pulling a
cord, GET FOUR CHANGES OF LlGHT—full, half, dim and night
light.
IT SAVES 30 TO 80 PER CENT. OF CURRENT.
Invaluable in hospitals, bedrooms, halls, porches, etc., etc.
Price
7/6.
There is a
You CAN’T AFFORD to be without one.
national appeal to SAVE WASTE!
Sold by all Electrical Supply Houses.
If unobtainable locally write for name of nearest
supplier.
The British Ever-ready Electrical Co.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY
,Y
Just a Little*
Sani-Flush
sprinkle.d in the toilet bowl every few
days will keep it white and sanitary.
It will make a hitherto odious task
easy. No dipping of water —no
scrubbing.
Sam-Flush
is unique nothing else like it.
It is meant to clean toilet bowls only
and does it thoroughly. Make sure
of a sanitary, odorless bowl by using
Sani-Flush regularly.
Ask Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani - Flush or can
get it quickly; or write us a card giv-
ing your dealer*s name and We will
■fHf ti-npl
fean‘l cftljrt
n
I
have you
supplied.
Sant-Flush
should be
used in all
Residences
and other
buildings
where there
are toilet
bowls.
Does not
injureplumb-
ing connec-
tions.
The Hygienic Product* Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St.,
Sydney N. S. W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
7 {.
+K
%
r*L
if.
r
Ok
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—
so ‘Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
TV
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new~~vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over x 0,000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY
•Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to-Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.


Do Not Worry
AWPnnples
g
serg
Cuticura Soap
to cleanse and purify,
Cuticura Ointment
to soothe and heal.
For pimples, redness,
roughness, dandruff,
falling hair and red,
rough hands these
fragrant super-
creamy emollients
are most effective.
Samples Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Ad-
dress post - card: ‘R-
Towns & Co., Sydney.
N.S.W.” Sold through-
out the world.
Cuticura Will
Remove Them
CHRIST! E 3
SPECIALS
TWO
LINES
S'
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
Zf fIONTER ST NEWCASTLE
se
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY,
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
ELEY Fourlong*
A .410 bore inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot..
rgs
erg
ELEY 450
No. I Rifle
srg
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
SI
S 3
m
W
3
ELEY 410
‘Universal'
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LOND 3 N
HATs
CAPS
AN
D
Of 6// First-c/ass Hatters throughout the Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OfTRESSsC°L td LONDON ENGLAND
f The
TRESS
reg 4 mark
guarantees
Qu§(ity
Finish
Character
f
9
V
(Pronounced Jell-LJoyds)
mmm
'J’HE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general "fitness'’ and well-being.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote :—“ Impoverished blood can be made rich and good
“ by means of Iron 'Jello.ds,’ the most effective and desirable treatment."
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/'
Manufactured only by The Jelloid’ Co.. 205. City Road, London, England.
JDeautij
Hints
Any woman nowadays may quickly reju-
venate her complexion at home by a safe and
painless process of gentle absorption. The
days of expensive and dangerous “operations”
are past, and each woman can be her own
beauty doctor. It has been discovered that
ordinary mereolised wax, applied like cold
cream, at night, will cause the thin veil of
lifeless, sallow or blotchy cuticle to gradually
and gently flake off in invisible, flour-like
particles, revealing the fresh, vigorous and
beautiful young skin underneath. Mereolised
wax absorbs only the unhealthy and un-
sightly outer fi'm, and does not affect the
healthy tissue at all.
The process defies detection, and unveils
a lasting and beautiful complexion, which is,
of course, a perfectly natural one. For this
purpose thousands of women are now, using
mereolised wax, which may be obtained at
any chemist's. Naturally the process also
THE SECRET OF A
GOOD COMPLEXION.
By MME. ST. CLAIRE.
removes all such surface blemishes as
freckles, blotches, pimples, tan, liver spots,
etc. It makes the face look years younger
and prettier, and renders the use of face
creams unnecessary.
* ■* * *
Another valuable piece of information,
which many women will appreciate, concerns
the success of the new treatment for Super-
fluous hair. A remedy for permanently erad-
icating this ugly form of facial disfigurement
now seems to have been found. It is simpli-
city itself. About one ounce of ordinary pure
powdered phemiuol, which can be obtained
at any chemist’s, is all that is needed to put
one in the way of completely ridding oneself
of superfluous hair. When applied to the
obnoxious growth this causes it to immedi-
ately disappear, and the continuance of the
recommended treatment is said to finally
destroy the hair roots, so that there will be
no renewal of the growth. [5
The Inky Way.
* IT •
There is a scheme afoot to make presen-
tations'to Bert Cook (Melb. Herald), Bill
Letcher (Argus) and George BrickhiU
(secretary of the A.J.A.) in acknowledg-
ment of their work in the preparation and
conduct of the journalists’ case in the Arbi-
tration Court. Both Cook and Letcher
devoted their annual holiday to the good
cause, and for weeks whenever they were
not working tliev were listening to a few
well-chosen remarks from their wives anent
neglect of home duties. Inky wayfarers,
especially those who have benefited by the
award, are invited to send subscriptions to
the sec. of their district. The award operates
in all States, and it is hoped that the pre-
sentation will not be merely a Sydney-Mel-
bourne affair.
* * * *
“Trallwm” takes a gloomy view of it: —-
Genteel unionism got it in tlie neck in the second
round, and the A.J.A. takes its predestined place as
a mutual admiration society. The award had hardly
shaken the bits of egg-shell from its fluff when the
dailies tossed down a challenge in the form of a •
curt dismissal of some 40 district correspondents.
The Association blinked a bit, and did nothing more
forceful than lodge a formal protest. The dailies
then “re-organised their staffs,” dropping a few
prominent members of the A.J.A. and regrading
the rest until the effect of the award was a mere
rumor. The Assoc, sat down heavily, wiped its brow,
and decided to do something. It decided to make
a levy on the beneficiaries under the award to pro-
vide a fund whereby the casualties might carry on
until they could get a job at navvying, etc. One or
two hot-heads said something about standing all
together—seeing the mechanical staffs —staff-men
refusing to go into correspondents’ districts —and
several horribly rude and drastic things like that.
They were swiftly suppressed: journalists were not
bottleblowers or miners or that kind of unionist!
The district correspondents were called together and
advised to use “moral suasion,” by refusing to make
use of “scoops” when they arose. Then a vote of
congratulation was passed to the beneficiaries and
another of sympathy to the casualties, and the world
resumed its customary wobble.
* * # *
“U.S,” : Wood-pulp paper is the outcome
of an accident. Wasps in the Hartz Moun-
tains build nests of wood fibre, and Gott-
fried Keller, a maker of paper from rags,
walking in the forest sixty-eight years ago,
trod on one of these abandoned homes.
Observing the resemblance to paper, he con-
sulted with Heinrich Voelter, and the ensu-
ing experiments produced excellent paper.
For 16 years none got out of Germany. Then
Pagenstecher Brothers. of New York,
exporters of petroleum for the Rockefellers,
imported some and with it a number of Ger-
man experts. The first mill was erected in
Massachusetts. Rag paper was selling at
24 cents, a pound at the time, and when the
pulp paper was on sale at 11 cents, the boom
set in.
* * * *
“M.W.”: R. S. Smythe came to Denili-
quin in the 60’s to edit the Southern
Courier, then just established by the big
landholders to “down” the Pastoral Times,
which had in some way offended the squat-
ters. The diminutive editor was a great
companion of the Then local medico, Hr.
Morrison, who stoocT about 6ft. 3in., and the
uneven pair were always trotting about
together. R.S. carried the Cross for several
months. Then the squatters thought better
of it. Crawford, the “devil” of that period,
afterwards established a printery in Mel-
bourne. and died some time ago leaving a
solid business and considerable cash.
* * * *
Edmund Mitchell, of Los Angeles
(U.S.A.), referred to in this column last
year as one of the founders of the Pastoral
Review, died suddenly in New York on
March 31. Mitchell had written his magnum
opus, and was correcting the proofs for a
New York publisher when the Head Printer
looked in. The old pressman was for many
years connected with Melb. Age.
They are not all so frank about themselves
as the Sydney Telegraph, which, in
announcing that various changes will have
to he made on account of the shortage of
paper, gives its present self this testimonial:
No stone will be left unturned to keep the Daily
Telegraph up to its full standard of efficiency, and
to make up in the quality of its news anything that
may be lacking in the number of its pages. It may
indeed prove an advantage to the reader to have a
newspaper from which he will be able to gather all
the important and interesting events of the day
without having to wade through superfluous
verbiage.
* * * *
“Cam”: “A.C.” honorably mentions the
late James Martin, of Ballarat (Vic.), as
having been a well-nourished pressman (B.
10/5./T7). The Victorian Inky Way is still
well ballasted by J. II- Elshang. who runs
the Benalla Independent. Last time I saw
him he c"’' l lm weighed 22st. He looks like
(j. 11. Reid, blit thinks differently.
THE SOLEMN SCRIBES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why is the journalist so sad?
Why is his spirit never glad?
What sins upon his shoulders lie,
To pinch his cheek and dim his eye?
Why do his moods to sorrow run?
What has he done?
Long vears I’ve known the solemn men
Who sit about and push a pen,
And ever were they men of gloom,
Dyspeptic, pallid blokes to whom
One source of brightness only came
The spirit flame. y
bs’t that mankind was never meant
To cower, curiously bent,
And earn its bread by massing words
In dreary, segregated herds.
Or bear the burden and the rage
Of all the Age?
Upon their shoulders have been hurled
The heavy troubles of the World ;
Yet might they not presume to smile,
And cheery be once in a while,
Though staggering ’neath the weary strife
And stress of Life?
VICTORIA.
Y.Z.


Door- Ways Are The Bug-Bear
of finished floors. They receive the hardest
wear, and naturally need most attention.
Busy housekeepers and careless maids allow
the finish to wear entirely off, and soon the
wood gets rough and splintery. It’s a very simple
matter to have beautiful floors if the doorways are
kept well-polished with
i
91 ;I.
‘The Dust-Proof Polish”
It is splendid for linoleums, too—for it brings out
the pattern and preserves it. Johnson’s Prepared
Wax imparts a beautiful, durable polish—easy to
keep clean. Less than an hour is required for pol-
ishing an ordinary-sized floor, and it may be walked
upon immediately.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempt-
ing. Hot dishes have no effect whatever upon it.
Have Your Piano, Gramophone and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish, Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently re-
moved with Johnson’s Prepared Wax, The Dust-
Proof Polish. Splendid for Craftsman Furniture also.
Worn spots
can easily
be repaired
with JOHNSON'S
PREPARED WAX
io *hiOa t ion OKint
4
fe: >
Every family has dozens of uses'
for Johnson’s Prepared Wax,
Keep a tin always on hand for
polishing your
Linos.
Floors
Woodwork
Piano
Furniture
Motor Car
Johnson's Prepared Wax comes
in the household and larger sizes.
It may be obtained from all
good dealers, or from
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St., Sydney, N. S. W.
nnHE tiling- that the people should have
JL been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are -you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand? •
Ilf
9SHM&2
of'a/L Chemists
HORLICK’S
jMALTED MILK
' 1 ——■ l * A.
Sample will be sent on receipt
of 2d. in stamps.—Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s is absolutely pure
because it comes to you
pasteurised.?
Hoflick’s will refresh you more than anything
else you can take, and will assist nature to
build bone, nerve and muscle,
Hnj it at
the Soda fountain*
sr
EVERY KIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
I
A*
TENNIS
We carry a Fine Range of Material
from Leading Makers.
RACKETS.
M.S'. Handicap, full size 6/-
(J. 8.8. Special 9/6
M.S. Champion 11/6
C. 8.8., cork handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8., Quadruple .... 15/6
M.S. llaymarket 22/6
Haymarket, Special ... 27/6
llaymarket. Selected . . 35/-
Haymarket, Kx. Special 37/6
Ayre’s Handicap 16/6
Ayre’s A 1
Ayre’s Double Central
Ayre’s Champion ...
Ayre’s S.N.D
S'lazenger’s Kens haw.
Slazenger’s Demon ..
Slazenger’s Whitehonsi
Slazehger’s E.6.M. ..
Slazenger's Doherty .
Slazenger’s Stadium .
17/6
18/6
25/-
47/6
18/-
28/6
29/-
88/6
42/6
47/6
(Postage on Packet: N.S.W., -9d.; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Uadi. Don.
Grey Regulation -/<} 5/S)
Dunlop Champion 1 /($ 17/6
Knell. Doz.
Ayre's Champion |/t) 20/-
Slazenger’s Champ. j/•) 20/-
(Postage on
one doz.: V.S.W., 1/-; other Slates, l S.)
STEAM-TARRED NETS.
Waterproof, full size 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 18/6
Waterproof, wire ffead line, 13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/*
Vets, Presses, Markers, Tapes and all Sundries
Stocked. Tennis Rackets Repaired and Re-strung.
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
gs
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
i
BOXING.
Our Gloves sire well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Sptof4
real leather, special value H/ii
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms... 9/(5
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz .12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting-, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
• 802 14/6, 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 02 16/6, 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 0 or
8 oz .>4 /.
HIGH-GRADE FTG HIING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6orB oz 25 /- 30/-
THE “LIGHTNING,’’ officially adopted and exclusively
used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
Personally recommended by Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker . ' 27 /O
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, (ioz... .45/.
(Postage on One Set: X.S.W., 1/.; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed ' ' 9/ '
~ Best napa, ~ ' t-1
~ Tan Leather, ~ ~ .
„ very superior, „ „ ||
Laced, „ ... 12/6 15/.
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)'
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND
Tin. wide (Post 4d.) ’ 'J/Q each
JOCK STRAPS, b'est quality (Post 3d.)....;. 3/6 & 4/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about B|oz. (Post tid.) ’ 4g/(j p a j r
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with All
Kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
/
PUNCHING BALLS.
/ We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Halls. A few minutes each 'day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
V, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7/6, 10/6
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, tine
leather, stayed seams', very fast.... 8/6 12/6 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-18/6, 22/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 40/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 9/6, 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 52/6
Above balls fitted with Moseley’s best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Rail Gloves 2/9, 3/9. 4/9 pr. Mitts 2/6 pr.
Punching Platforms 33/-, 50/-, 80/-each
Rail and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/6, 4/6, 5/- »
FOR SMOKERS.
ZIG-ZAG CIGARETTE TOBACCO, highest-grade imported. Very mild. Will not
dry the throat. Famed for its quality afid purity. loz. packet, with book of
cigarette papers 9d. (post free).
SUNOL TOBACCO, highest-grade Virginian, natural aroma. Awarded 4 gold medals.
Dark or light. Plug and cut. 2oz. packet, Hd (post free) ; a pound, 6/6 (post free).
Send for copies of our new edition illustrated Sports List (jBl) and ‘‘Sure Catch' ’
Anglers ('Uide ( P>2 ). All Sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
• •
msimuas greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
nm TOBACCONISTS
r.i »■ >;
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St also at
Tiewcastle l Brisbane


ANOTHER REXONA GIRL
MISS IVY BURNHAM
' ,; v£
I
(This is a photo,
by K. Stump of
Miss Ivy Burnham
as she appeared in
the. Rexona dirts'
Fancy Costume.
Miss Burnham is a
true Rexona girl.
Take her advice and
try the Rexona
Remedies. )
Dear Sir, —
I have been using j our Rexona and Rexona
Soap for over two years, and I think so
much of them that I want you to add me to
your list of Rexona girls. I think there is
simply nothing like Rexona, for I find that it
keeps the skin in perfect condition, prevents
chapping, and at once drives away any chil-
blains. Rexona Soap is a great favorite with
me, not only for the toilet and bath, hut as a
shampoo for the hair 1 find it truly delightful.
The many toilet soaps 1 have used before
cannot be compared with it, as it is miles
ahead of them all, and since first using
Rexona Soap I have never used or will ever
use any other.
My advice to all my girl
friends who w ish to keep their
skin, hair and complexion in tlie
pink of condition is to use
Rexona and Rexona Soap, first,
last and always.
May I subscribe myself as a
true Rexona girl?
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) IVY A. V. BURNHAM,
St. John’s Road,
Forest Bodge, Sydney.
REXONA
1/6 and 3/-
REXONA
SOAP
Try the Rexona
Remedies.
They consist of Rexona the' Rapid
Healer, and Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap—both universal favorites. The
wonderful healing powers of Rexona
have made it a password in nearly
every home in Australia. Rexona
Soap is the best preservative for the
skin and hair that is obtainable, and
leaves the hair soft, fluffy and
luxuriant. Try the Rexona remedies
yourself, and prove our words.
Rexona, 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap,
1/- per tablet.
Anh*eph
p^ri‘l* 5 •'f Ahsolufely
6 '' Reliable
%
e/xoria
A R«m-,dw Kir
es
v.VAIIS
SK\H & «-*CW»v-
Ir
□
<4s^
When Mrs. Nuliwed
Telephoned the Coal Man
She said:—
“Send us a ton at once, and be sure
it is good and fresh.” Young wives,
inexperienced in the ways of housekeep-
ing, need have no doubts as to the good-
ness and freshness of
“REX” Lorraine
Smoked Sausages
This is a new “Rex” Delicacy—a no-
trouble tasty dish for Winter Break-
fasts.
“REX” LORRAINE SAUSAGES are tender, juicy and flavor-
some —beautifully smoked by a special “Rex” Process, and
then packed in a rich jelly. Pop the tin into boiling water
for 20 minutes, and the Sausages are ready to serve. No
trouble, no greasy pan to wash. Ask your Grocer for a tin
To-day.
Str.N No
2Tui
And don’t forget—
Rex L mcheon Cheese
It is easy to spread, and keeps well after
being opened. Insist on “Rex” Brand.
&
UNCHEON
JOCCI r y
V^s
“Rex” Canned Delicacies include—
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, l£|b. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. (ins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues, in. jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” laineh Tongues, in jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues, in jelly, ljllt. aiul
Sib. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in soz. deco-
rated tins and soz. enamel jars.
Also “Rex” Card, for cooking purposes,
lib. prints.
Fog'gitt, Jones ©. Co. Ltd.
Cufers o f “Rex” Hams and Bacon ;
PacKers of "Rex” Pore Food Products.
The Vigil of Fand.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cuchullain, prince ot' the Red Branch and the
"■reatest of Irish national heroes, was loved m
Find a beautiful goddess who had been the bride of
], e <ea-<wl Manannan, son of Lir. Cuchullain s wife,
I'nier pleaded with her husband to return to her,
nd by the interference of Manannan, husband and
wife were brought together again. Both were given
hints of forgetfulness by the Druids.]
TIS soft are beds below the sea.
The windows salt are high;
Ocli, for the world where winds are
free
And gold hair shining dry !
'Tis wet I walk, ’tis wet I sleep.
The wet sun brings the day.
My lone I watch the wet moon creep
Through wet weed curtains grey.
The son of Lir is white and tall.
He drives the wide seas far ;
The long waves hear his hunting call,
The wet steeds draw his car.
Deli, why would I remember still
A man brown-limbed and strong
Who bent his thought to match my will
In summers warm and long?
Twas lonely in my silver hall,
-Twas lightsome on the shore,
1 laughed to feel the sunlight fall
Round the blue robe I wore ;
\nd he with wonder found me there,
Half-dreaming as I stood,
Sotting a blossom in my hair,
My lone in Tunis wood.
The world was full of light and play,
The birds were mad with sdng :
Sure, if I led his wits astray
He took my own along.
And, sure, if wrong 1 did or harm,
I had the word lie spoke—
The thought of me behind his arm
Made strong his battle-stroke.
tick, woman with the black, sad eyes.
You looked so wild on me.
You gave the call that made him rise,
My white king from the sea!
The salt was dripping in his hair,
He stood between us two.
And drew me down from good, sweet air
To this grey place I knew,
And he, my true man-king of men, .
They gave him bitter drink
To make his soul forget me when
Long thoughts were his to think,
The woman drank. They both forget;
But I r'emember still
The fine green rain that comes to set
The blossom on the bill.
Och, I remember night and day
The brown arms kind and strong
That, clasped about me, seemed to sway
The soul of me like song.
I wait. I watch. The long weeds trail
Wet-winnowed by the stream ;
The black, forgetful cup will fail,
And he will start and dream.
Sure, by the black-eyed woman’s side
His soul will wake and see
The sun on Innis laughing wide
And the gold hair of me.
Tis then that he will rise and cry
Along the wet, salt sand,
And I will come—ocli, heart. I die
For sight of love and land !
Was that his voice? ’Tis far and thin !
The chill wave lets me through.
Och, happy daylight let me win
To that high joy I knew !
His voice! 11 is eyes! How light he stands!
How pale his cheek and wan !
I clasp cold air that seemed his hands.
A mist that seemed a man
Och, what is this? Cold shadow, speak!
The thin shape moves on wind;
Grey winter makes the dry world bleak;
The trees stand bald and blind.
A laughter seems to swell and rise.
The son of Lir drives far.
A mocking triumph in his eyes.
He calls me to his car.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Armidale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOR the last two or three days the Little
Landlady lias bt'en pestering me inter-
mittently concerning tin l whereabouts of
Armidale. It appears that she has a distant
relation there, or one of her Sydney pals
has. She is very persistent, even for an
Australian of Scottish descent. Questions
and plans for the future which may seem
utterly ridiculous and mere feminine gabble
to others do not seem so to me; for I’m
always vaguely sure there’s something in it
—that she’s got a card of some sort up her
sleeve. She's been in business, and I’ve
seen her pull through too often.
She says she “'thought” that I. being an
old Bushman, and an Australian, would have
all these things at my finger-ends, (They
are always thinking, these women.) Therein
»he and many others make a great mistake.
But she was brought up as a coastal dis-
trict girl, and spent most of her life in
North Sydney. And if there is any place in
this wide world that is farther away from
Australia and the Australian Bush than
North Sydney. I should like to have a look
at it.
No. The real Australian never knows
anything about a place until he has been
there. At least not anything more than he
always knew. He knows, temperance town
or not, that there’ll be a pub of some sort
there; a post office, butcher’s shop, general
store, and a baker, a blacksmith and shoe-
maker : a progress committee at least, if not
a “league” or “association,” and a bit of
the Salvation Army. And, of course, a
Bummer Smith, a hard case, and all the
rest of them. Furthermore, he doesn’t care
—or, at least, he doesn’t bother. If anybody
suggests that he ought to try to find out
something about the place he is going to, or
starts trying to “give him the strength of
it,” he’ll say: “Plenty of time when I get
there,” or, “I’ll find out all about it soon
enough.” And therein he is very wise.
Ignorance prolongs the novelty.
And how much more does my theory
(it’s much more than a theory now)
apply to a place where you’ve got to go and
stop! Even after six months in our very
temperate and moral little township of
Leeton, in the Yanko irrigation area, there
are two or three things that I don’t know
anything about yet—though I could easily
have found out the first fortnight—or the
first week, for that matter. But I wanted
to postpone absolute, dead, brown, drab or
black Monotony to the last possible gasp.
Some Sunday night, when things are extra
monotonous; when the periodical “official
visit” is still afar off’, and the elections cer-
tain when our demijohn from Narandera
goes wrong at the railway siding on Satur-
day and all the sly-grog shops are sold out
—on some such night I shall start investi-
gating these few things that I have left
unknown and unspoiled so far. But I’ll use
them sparingly and one by one, so as to eke
out the last shreds of Novelty.
But I’m off the track again, as usual. •
•When Billjim, in Australia or “any-
wheres,” after an absence in the Northern
Territory, the Never Never. Klondyke, South
America, China, Siberia (I sent him some
books there recently—lie was away engineer-
ing), in training camp or at the Front,
wishes to “get to Armidale,” for some Bill-
jim reason (perhaps his girl, or, maybe,
what Benno would have icalled the “Old
’Uns” have shifted down there to stay with
“some relations” during his absence) —the
which town Billjim lias never been to and
of whose situation on the map of Australia
he has only the vaguest idea —then he
makes, per camel-pad, per snowslioes, per
liner, cargo boat, coach, camel, per any-
thing else handy, to the nearest rail-
way station or siding that will put him
outer the line ter Armidale. There he pre-
sents himself at the ticket-window and
wants a secon’ single ter Armidale; and, if
his particular Armidale happens to be off
the line, he might add “or somewhores near
it.”
So Billjim reaches the junction, where in
all probability he will have to stay all night.
He cross-examines the station-master, the
ticket clerk, the porter and the High Com-
missioner of the goods-shed (often all in
one) as to what time his train will start in
the morning; and he gets the “cab” man or
coach-driver, Joe Hardcase, Bummer Smith
and a boy to corroborate them. For Bill-
jim is anxious to get home—to the home he
never saw. In this case it is his wife
who has shifted down to stay with her rela-
tions in Armidale. In the morning,
already at home in the pub or accommoda-
tion-house he stayed in over-night, he has a
hasty and early breakfast, says: “Well! —
So-long!—I must be goin’ !” and comes on to
the platform, and, as it happens, gets into
the compartment that I am travelling in.
He is in khaki, of course ; and there is on
his face that half-furtive grin of mingled
satisfaction and anticipation that I have
learned to know so well since the outbreak
of the war. Somebody is going to get a sur-
prise. Shades of the Recent Bast, grant
that it be a pleasant one! And God grant
that it isn’t poor Billjim who will get the
surprise!
His Armidale happens to be Hay.
There are two other soldiers, belonging to
different battalions, and strangers to the first,
in our compartment. They are both “on
final,” as I gather, and en route to a com-
mon Armidale to say good-bye to their
people. One appears to have all the moral
rectitude of a member of the Young Men’s
Christian Association. The other is a young
Sydney type, of the rough-and-ready working
class. He had been gloriously, singingly, or
rather bellowingly, shickered; but, at Naran-
dera ( their Armidale was Hay, too) —at
Narandera a dose of raw and maybe
doctored Australian “port wine” had done the
business for him. He’d been very sick, and
was now leaning back very white and re-
morseful.
“An’ I was goin’ home straight,” he
wailed, not yet sober, “ter see me mother,
an’ me sisters, an’ me blind brother Jack —
’n’ the Ole Man They’re all out at Hay.
An’ this me blanky final.”
Presently lie said, half pitifully, half
indignantly:
“Fancy a blanker like me enlistin’!”
I thought of how many blankers like him
were heading charges in France just then,
and I gave him a judicious dose of something
I carried in a flask in the inside pocket of
my overcoat, and he brightened up consid-
erably. I told him he’d have plenty of
time at Witton to go across the road to
the hotel and get a good, honest long beer,
and he was very thankful for the informa-
tion. In answer to a delicate question he
said:
. “No, thank yer all the same. I hold it
yet, thank Gord. I ain’t as bad as that. I
(Continued on next page.)


Coughs
Colds
The immediate and continuous success of the Peps treat-
ment for coughs, colds, sore throat, bronchitis and other throat
and chest ailments is due to the fact that Peps provide, in
handy tablet form, a potent medicine
which is breathed direct into the bronchial
tubes and lungs. The dotted lines in this
diagram follow the direction of the air we
breathe, whether through the nostrils (i) or
the mouth (2). Passing over the tongue (3)
the air mingles with the fumes emitted from
the little Peps tablet dissolving on the tongue, and both are carried through
the opening (4) to the throat.
Note that the Peps fumes pass down a separate passage (5) direct to
the lungs, not down the gullet (6) to the stomach, which is the way all
liquid medicines must go. To swallow any medicine into the lungs is utterly
impossible 5 and no medicine taken into the stomach Can reach the lungs.
a
41
’I
&
A
tofhe
Lungs
I
Free from all
drowsy drugs,
always pure
and constant in
c o m p o sition,
Peps are of
i n ca 1 c u lable
value as a
soothing, heal-
ing, restoring*
and ger m-
destroying
remedy for the
throat and
chest troubles
so prevalent at
this season.
Sold Everywhere
r/6 3] • per box.
z
0
©
©
//lliiil/h
////////ri//l/n/lniili/11//in n /,,,///
ilWm
rg
Guard Against Substitution
The “VALET” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/6 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN
NO SHAVE SO CLEAN.
aiii t goin’ home to loaf no more. I put it
away orlright in the savin’s bank, and it’s
gom on ahead of me.”
Our soldier friend of the “port wine”
tragedy reminds me of another I met going
,up (or down—whichever they like to
call it) to Sydney, on the Southern line ; but
lie was more of a typical Billjim. whereas
the victim of “his land's own wine” had
been too long in the city. This soldier was
travelling from a training camp somewhere
in Victoria to see his mother in Sydney,
where he had never been. She had gorn
over some five years ago, he told me in the
frankly-communicative manner of the travel-
ling Billjim, an’ was managin’ a big board-
in’-house fer a sorter relation of hers —a
distint relation.
Some compelling spirit—l don’t know
which it is—prompted me to ask him if his
mother knew he was coming.
“Know I’m cornin’!” he echoed. “Blime!
She don’t know I’m in khaki! I’ve
been a bit of a bad egg,” he explained
presently, “but that’s all over now. I
didn’t write because I wanted to be sure
of myself. Besides, I’d promised so often.
But I’m through with my training now.
I’ve been saving up fer this. She'll be all
right—-she won’t be there much longer.
They always said I had no will power,” he
added, after a while, and then laughed.
“Every man has it if he gets the right
chance.”
This was about Goullnirn, and after mid-
night, and I noticed that the vernacular fell
from him as he neared Sydney and his
mother, till at last he dropped it altogether.
I have noticed such cases often. I believe
I take it up and drop it myself, uncon-
sciously, according to environment. Out
here, in the Bush after many years, and
amongst many of “my own people” and iny
own bushwomen, I often catch myself saying
"Wot 7” instead of “Beg pardon !”—or even
“Beg pardin’.”
And lest it be objected that I, a sort of
Government official, should be “travelling
second” w r ith all sorts, 1 should like to say
that it was always the same with me. In
old, pre-London years, when I had a pass
or a first-class ticket, I invariably finished
the journey travelling second with common
persons like- myself—-and sometimes even
with low persons. And sometimes in the
brake-van of a luggage train, frying eggs
for breakfast in a tin plate over the stove
with butter for fat; and sometimes on the
engine, when I had uncles on the line. The
last time I came west I was so disgusted
with myself, and everything else, that I left
the sleeper at Junee and finished the jour-
ney in a second-class “smoker,” thinking
bard with two Chinamen. I reckoned we
were the only three people on the train that
understood each other perfectly. The elder
Chinaman said it was “All same opium.”
And lest the eternal “I” be objected to,
let it be said that deaf persons are driven
more and more to talk about themselves,
because, except in some cases in a noise
as of machinery, or in the train, they never
bear conversation unless it be directly
addressed to themselves. Some people are
always talking and writing about their
blanky selves without any excuse at all.
* * * *
When I reached the big Bush-people’s
boarding-house in Sydney where I usually
put up, and where they put up with me,
and after investigating a hotel restaurant
of my acquaintance and bringing away some-
thing in a bag, I found our young soldier
friend seated on a sofa in the passage open-
ing on to the street, just outside the dining-
room door.
“Mother’s inside!” he whispered hoarsely
as I bent down to hear. “She doesn’t know
I'm here yet!”
lie bore up well, but I noticed a tremor.
“Can' you keep one down first?” I asked.
“No !” he said. “Thank you, all the same.
Afterwards.”
I knew his mother. Stout and cheerful,
in spite of all her troubles, and motherly-
very motherly to any young boarder (or old
one. for that matter) who was ill and in
trouble, whether through drink or anything
else. They all went to her —they all con-
fided in her. She had boys of her own, she
said. She sometimes spoke, but very gently,
of her youngest son, who went a little wild.
But it wasn’t his fault, poor boy. “Tom
was very steady, and so was Will. But
Jack—he was too good-hearted, my Johnnie
was, and that’s how But I’m sure he’s
enlisted now,” she’d break off and say hope-
fully, “if ho was anything like his father.
But I wonder why he doesn’t write to his
mother. Perhaps”
And here the strange thing happened. I
had paused outside the dining-room door and
saw her sitting at breakfast, at the “first
table,” the door end of the room.
She happened to turn her face to the
door while speaking of “Johnnie,” as they
told me afterwards (perhaps she vaguely ex-
pected to see him, as, no doubt, she was
always vaguely expecting) and she saw me.
But I couldn’t have been responsible for the
strange thing that happened. She’d seen
these classic features too often and too re-
cently for them to cause her any emotion.
Anyway, she suddenly stopped talking; she
rose, slowdy but firmly, like one in a trance,
and came right out of the door. But the
“queer turn” seemed to pass away as she
reached the passage and turned towards the
foot of the stairs and the sofa on which the
strange soldier sat. Then I heard the one
word “Mother!”—as near a sob or a choke
as*a. brave man could get.
And then I went out and had a beer.
When I saw them next they were sitting
at the late breakfast-table and she had an
arm round her soldier son’s shoulders. Oh,
but she was a proud woman that day—and
he, on her account, a proud son !
During the morning there was a very
deaf, elderly old fool in his little room at
the back, ' doing a little irrigating on his
own, because of many things—including the
beer.
But never mind, old wasters and rejects!
Also, old regrets. It’s not all over yet, and
the Lord knows what might come these
times. Some of us might yet land, some fine
morning, in the Armidale of our dreams, and
in the khaki of our dreams, and give the
grand surprise to the lost ones of our
dreams, and not of our dreams. The ones
that were lost to us.
And now I’ll go and look up Armidale on
the map for the Little Landlady.
HENRY LAWSON.
Specs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f "> RANDPA, Grandpa, children shall
m _. him vex,
Beating of his baldy head, and
stealing of his specs;
Little windows for his eyes to grandpapa are
boons,
Shining, shining in the night like a pair of
moons.
Four eyes, four eyes scaring all the kids;
Four moons burning before his ivrinkled lids.
Note the bridge of his big nose curving wire
decks,
Grandpa, Grandpa, staring through his
specs!
Youth and courage, hope and I,
Looked at the sun’s eye at noon ;
Stared him down as earth rolled by,
Wrote by high lights of the moon;
Dreamed dust of the desert run -
Made gold ladders to the sun.
Saw with youth’s clean eyes the flower,
Visioned values of the tree;
All my senses in their power
Measured starlight and the sea;
\\ eighed the moon the world loves well,
Grass and grove and blossom bell;
All the things that vision gilds—•
Flower and woman, sky and star—
All the castles beauty builds
Ere the mire of earth can mar—
Children playing on a lawn,
And the dark of pines at dawn.
Children laughing on the grass;
Clean young love with fears confest;
Days of splendid strength that pass;
Women of the nursing breast;
South wind’s gracious canticle;
Sunlight’s daily miracle:
All my capital of sight—
Thrift-spent, guerdon and largesse—
Thrown as time and space by right
All were mine for wantonness!
And the broad sun said to me,
“Comes the day thou shalt not see!”
Then on one pen-weary night
Blurred became these eyes of mine;
Printed papers in the light
Tangled to a single line—
All one line their smug pretence '
And the Censor’s lack of sense.
Soon, so soon, when 1 shall write,
I who stared the sun front birth,
I must steal the stolen light
Of a pebble dug from earth ;
1 who skyward sight did crave,
Borrow vision from the grave.
As when childhood’s sight I lost,
When the gutter was the sea, '
And a mast the corner post
That I vaulted merrily,
So this second childhood’s sight
Makes the printing large by night.
Yet at last, at last I see
Life with wider opened eyes,
Know false lights that cozened me,
Differ folly from the wise,
Know that many a sun I’ve seen
Was but a paraselene.
Beauty still I see as true,
All the trees the forest arch,
Though the new sight I must rue—
Puppy-blind a year, come March—•
Glad am Imy sight can trace
Single-heart and Double-face.
Still I see as sees a child
All the great sights of the earth,
Flame of sunlight on the wild,
And the sun-god’s daily birth ;
But I must have eyes of glass
For the daily lies that pass.
Truth and beauty, which are one,
Are for sight of inward eyes;
So when outward sense is done,
Memories still with beautv rise;
Saving all the mental sight
From the long maroon of night.
If I see not all my dead
Youth and childhood come again;
If the years wrap me in lead
Buried yet alive to pain ;
God ! I beg of Love and Hate,
Make my heart cold, indurate.
If I be not blind to all
Those foul things that smirch our youth
Blind me not with lead and pall, ’
Let me see, though darkly, truth •
Still let beauty-twilight bless—
Lies are always ugliness.
Let me also see my sins
Gather round my midnight bed;
And the crime that grins and grins
Until it shall see me dead,
And the hate, at noon or dew,
Of the youth and love I slew'.
Soon, so soon, when I shall write,
I who stared the sun from birth,
I must, seal the stolen light
Of a, pebble dug from earth;
T who skyward sight did crave,
Borrow vision from the grave.
N.3.W,
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


srg
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi?
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTI
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featheraton Street, Wellington.
VictoriarMlffice—SjJQueer^treet^rtelbourne^^^
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
r
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves 5 per cent . on
Automobile
Fire Insurance .
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
> UR* MAMOUt Mini
CAILLEI9I6 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR- ''
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
A'ole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
s
0
n
Cleaning them
is better than
painting them
r I 'HE special compounds that
A are made for whitening shoes
do not clean them, but merely
paint over the dirt.
The Bon Ami way is better.
Bon Ami rubs away the dirt and
stains, and restores the original
whiteness and freshness. That
makes the shoes look like new.
When the shoes are old and the original whiteness is really worn
off, then is the time to begin using paint; but even then the
shoes will look nicer if they are always cleaned first with Bon
Ami. You will find that if you use Bon Ami on your shoes they
will not need attention so often.
Bon Ami also cleans windows, mirrors, kitchenware, painted
woodwork, copper and brass.
A* your Grocer’s.
I ÜBSP^For alt tHe
Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleanlng
DHISSIW
AS*
I
5*
£
\
J
if
v.- —/i
:a>
«/p
i
H*jfi
ItfliW,
d^
/
fg
Don’t forget to use
■
Q
1
P
to-night—and again
in the morning .
For the cleaner your teeth a v e
kept the longer they will last
and the better they look.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
r ade by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
sdfg
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
sd
We Specialise in Sundries
for the Explosive Engine.
If you possess a Motor-car, Motor-boat, Motor-
cycle, Portable or . Stationary Engine, or Aeroplane,
whether propelled by Petrol, Oil or Gas,
we can supply you with all the necessary fitments to
make it go better for less expense.
Sparking Plugs! Sparking Plugs!!
fgs
LODGE SPARKING PLUGS, in Metric, in. taper,|in. x 18in. 5/- each.
Weatherproof, in Metric only, 0/- each. Special Racing, 7/6 each.
dfg
CHAMPION SPARKING PLUGS, the equipment of
80 per cent, of the ears made in America. A plug for
every make of car. In Metric, % in., Sin. x 18in.
Ford “X” 2/9, Regular 3/-, Overland 3/3, Hy.
Duty 5/-, Reliance (Sparks in water) 5/6 each.
REFLEX SPARKING PLUGS. A splendidly made
plug. Will not foul with oil, soot or carbon. Once tried
always used. Ford Special 2/9, Torpedo 3/-, Giant
Reflex, 4/- each.
Illustrated List describing all these plugs in detail free.
Send for other Lists.
Country Garages write to us. We will put you on the
right track.
Robert C. Swan &Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. [i
sd


INGROVIT
leather!
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowlol,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advloe and Price List on application.
Ask for “DOUBLE EXTRA’ Steel
The Finest Grade of Steel for all ordinary
that can be manufactured. Strongly
recommended for work where
High Speed Steel is
not employed.
fgs
SUPPLIED
7n BARS SPECIALLY
ANNEALED for EASY MACHINING.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J, Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Chemicals
Best Prices from Stockor Indent.
Soda Ash
Caustic Soda
Sulphide of Sodium
Alum
Sulphate Alumina
Borax
Hypo Soda
Naphthaline
Bicarb Soda
Bichromate Soda
Carbolic
etc., etc.
British Aniline Dyes.
JAMES HARDIE 8 CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
Little Collins Street, Melbourne, js
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS "REGRINDING VALVE,”
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 82 Pin STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, NZ
PERMASITE
Quality ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
GYPSUM and
PLASTER OF PARIS.
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. U
safe
O
taAO<
Vi
o
o
V,
&
*
Tj
o > Vt °iX.OL
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: 11b., 50/-; 11b., 35/-; 20z., 7/6.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
Cast-Iron Brazing Co. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Victoria.
20-inch Back-geared Shaper.
STEPTOE
—SHAPERS
High Grade, designed
for Rapid Production.
LOW IN PRICE.
Sizes: 14in., 16 in. and 20in.
For Prompt Delivery
from StocK.
Sole Agents:
R.L. Scrutton # Co. Ltd.
Machinery Merchants,
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Motorists, Garages 8 Others
When Requiring Gear Wheels, Machined Parts,
Milling or Grinding Work or Repairs,
Send to our Modern Workshops for
Quick Despatch and Moderate Charges.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.
307-309 Kent Street, Sydney.
dfg
śd
fgs
dg
FARM ENGINE
FEATURES—
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
Type ‘‘Z'
1917
Model.
sd
WORKS ON KEROSENE which
STARTS ON PETROL . . which
THROTTLE GOVERNED which
GEAR-DRIVEN MAGNETO . , which
MECHANICAL SPARK PLUG which
SPEED REGULATOR ... which
OUR PRICES which
means Fuel Economy.
means Quick Start —No Waiting.
means Uniform Speed—No “Cut Out.”
means Hot Spark—Nothing Better.
means Fewer Spark Plm> Troubles.
means the Speed You Want.
mean Best Engine Value ever offered.
ASK FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
ECONOMY, DURABILITY, EASY STARTINC.
You want these FEATURES in your OIL ENGINE;
if you are wise you will insist on having them,
and you get them in the
OIL ENGINE
(st-grade Kerosene —about Vz pint per B.H.P. per hour. No Magneto, no Bat-
teries, no Diuw-iauiy, o. Also you vary the consumption to suit load.
DURABILITY —The Engine is solidly built of BEST MATERIALS to withstand years of wear.
EASY STARTING —Two or three turns of handle and it starts up from cold on kerosene.
HOOE
ECONOMY —Because you use coi
DANGAR, GEDYE 8 CO. LTD.. 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
m
Manufactured by N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building. 350 George Street, Sydney.
