

pBWAR’S THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
Machinery Merchants,
B,ent Street, Sydney,
107
Mining and Contractors 4 Plant, Engineers* and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : ALCIIONEERS FOR .MACHINERY , etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants al* ays available.
W-
.
€
u
5
advance,
ON ALX CLASSES oC SECURITY JJ
TRADE BIEES DISCOUNTED. V
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N.S M MONT DE PIETE D.&1.C9 LTP
HEAD OfflCE: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telesraph” New Bail*
186 Castlereagh Street, S’ dney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street. Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
City 9325.
?laide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Genera! Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
i
WRITE TO-DAY FOR
50-PACE BOOK.
OSCILLATING
WALL
ratfiEJ
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR A MONET
fcOLO MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
and Out-door Steeping,
■* ’
For In
American Wall Bed ‘Co
380 George Street, near Q.P.Q., Sydney
>nr \v &Gr> j
( T ossara
u
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
Y7_
n;
- "" '»A Great Recordl”
HUTTON’S
- PINEAPPLE” BRAND
_ CfOR 45 YEARS THE BEST
Hams & Bacon
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD. [
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business*
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JINKET made from these genuine Tablets
is Recommended by numerous doctors as being
himlily nutritious and umgorating for the
digestive organs.
k
L
nke^
u
HANSENS
TABLETS
INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Tfc* Standard Remedy which has outlived the On tori am
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and h'avy men.
Used since 15&6. CURES Write for Boo*
AfISTRALi AH BLIGHT, FAUiMC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. 1 -A.
Insist on “ Singleton's refuse all substitutes.
SPECIHY
I^eaS^
GENUINE ALBANY COMPOUND GREASE.
MADE BY ADAM COOK’S SONS, NEW YORK.
6 Grades on Hand.
Write for Pamphlets.
Specially suitable for High-grade Machinery.
Equally useful for Motor Cars, etc.
All Engine-room Wants Supplied.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
THE ENGINEERS’ DEPOT.
161 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
IT’S ECONOMICAL.
Ik
4C
EA
B.L. WHISKY ■
ORHE. KEIGWXN Ob CO. LTD., XYDNII -S ole Agents.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. (MELBOURNE) PROPY. LTD.
PUMPS FOR EVERY SERVICE.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Qives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.38.— N0. 1969.]
[Thursday, November 8. 1917,
Registered at ine General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“An Irish Heart,’
Verses by David McKee Wright.
riIHIS book of Mr. Wright’s best work w
1 not be offered for public sale ;bu - ■
limited edition will be printed for subsen
Subscription, 3/6. to The rwge
Irish Heart,” The Bttlletin, 214 Georg
Street. Sydney.
E 2
bein? unsweetened and containing a large proportion of Juniper, is specially
recommended by Doctors to those suffering from kidney complaints and for
rheumatism. The best GIN to take with Vermouth.
SEE THAT YOU GET "GILBEY'S.” Obtainable in quarts an 4 pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY, Sole Agents for N.S.W. [2
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
mmm®
m
9d. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H-,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, ana
sample tin will be sent post
free, or forward 9d. in sta P
for fall-size tin.
DUERDIX & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents
The Red Page
War
Arthur Conor. Doyle’s second volume of
his history of the war, The British Cam-
paign in- Prunse and Flanders, ll>ls (Hodder
and Stoughton, per Angus and Robertson,
Sydney: 6s. in England), is a disappointing
work. He lacks the broad, illuminating
sweep of the historian; he is accurate in
detail, but from his detail he draws no con-
clusion. He can tell you what each regi-
ment did; but not what the English or the
Germans aimed to do, and to what extent
they achieved or failed in that aim. The
reader cannot see the campaign for the
colonels. x
Conan Doyle deals with famous battles:
Neuve Cliapelle, Hill 00, Ypres, Richebourg-
Festubert, Hooge, Loos. All through the
British were hammered; they were shock-
ingly inferior in artillery and munitions;
they flung away their lives in glorious, hope-
less attacks against unsbattered wire; and
yet they stuck it. Doyle notes that at
Neuve Cliapelle “for the first time in the war
the Germans finally abandoned a position
tbat they had lost, and made no further
attempt to retake it.” And eight months
after the British entered the war the whole
of the original expeditionary force would
have absolutely disappeared but for frequent
reinforcements. Many of the veteran corps
had lost twice their original numbers!
Speakiug of the heroism of the Canadians in
the first gas attack at Ypres, Doyle remarks:
“Little did Bernhardi think when he penned
his famous paragraph about our colonial
militia and their uselessness upon a Euro-
pean battlefield that a division of those very
troops was destined at a supreme moment
to hold up one of the most vital German
movements in the Western campaign.”
Doyle is perfectly frank about the appalling
losses of the British troops: he gives details
of the actual casualties suffered by many of
the battalions. Thus at Loos a British bri-
gade lost 78 officers and 2000 men out of
about 3600 engaged in the attack. If there
is one axiom clearly established by the war
it is i bat no human heroism can carry
troops through rncut vire.
A just wmrd is inserted in praise of the
£r 6 iisn uiVioilor's. Doyle notes that the
English and the English press, with true
generosity, have continually extolled the
valor of the other elements enf the army.
Thus a false impression has arisec* that the
finest fighters are the overseas divisions, the
Scots, Welsh and Irish. Yet, “four-,fifths of
this great army was purely English, and he
English divisions have shown a sobru ty of
discipline and an alacrity valor Which
place them in the very first place
fighting races.” It will be r» memo ~d,
though Doyle does not mention it, ‘.bat the
Anzacs protested against the praise be-
stowed, as they believed, too exclusively upon
their picturesque selves,
Doyle wastes much indignation over the
German use of gas and of flame-throwers.
He has the old English idea that war is a
sport, and he stigmatises these methods as
unchivalrous, as, indeed, military crimes. He
is annoyed that “the gallant profession of
arms was degraded to the level of the
assassin.” Nowadays even England recog-
nises war for what it is; and since the fight
is “all in,” the British have taught the Hun
a few new forms of frightfulness, with doubt-
less some much worse to come.
So modest were we in 1915 that Conan
Doyle finds “a just 'cause for sober satisfac-
tion tbat a British force, half of which con-
sisted of new formations, should have driven
such an enemy out of a triple line of forti-
fications, and should afterwards have per-
manently held the greater part of the field
against every effort at reconquest.” Yet a
move hack of a couple of miles at Ypres,
and a move forward of the same extent in
the south, were all tbat either side could
show for a year’s bard work and the loss of
so many thousand lives. “Bloch, the military
prophet of 1898, had indeed bqen justified of
his wisdom.”
Amdrg Chevrillon writes an interesting
analysis erf the British in Britain and the
TFnr (Hodder and Stoughton, per Sydney
Book Club). It is not altogether a compli-
mentary analysis, but it is penetrating and
acute. With the Boer War three cei. vies
of territorial expansion came to an end; .he
empire was finished, and all that England
thought she had to do was to administer her
estate, to eliminate from it injustice and
suffering, and to organise society for the
welfare of the future. So she sat down in
the comfortable illusion of a world peace,
hardly conscious of the curious obstinacy of
a Germany that wanted a big fleet to play
with. Now Germany’s grievance against
England is that, by her incessant attempts
for 10 years to avoid war she bad induced
.Germany to believe that she was afraid of
it. Then, having thus meanly incited Ger-
many to hit the other fellow, Britain had
butted in herself. For Germany never con-
ceived it possible that a people who had re-
fused to arm themselves for war might
nevertheless determine to undertake it for
the sake of a duty—at the call of its con-
science. “England was innocent of the war,
and she went to war like an innocent. She
had never fought Germany; she had no idea
of the German methods of warfare.” Eng-
land expected, so the author was told, a
rather rough game of football; and Chevril-
lon justly complains that “from sheer con-
science and humanitarian generosity” Eng-
land delayed fur months declaring contraband
indispensable imports, allowing Germany to
accumulate fresh stocks of wheat ami
cotton, “which threaten to prolong the war
indefinitely.” This Frenchman cannot under-
stand why the commander of the Emden, un-
deniably a pirate, had his sword returned to
him with compliments, nor why memorial
tablets should during the war be set up in
Oxford to former German Rhodes Scholars
who died fighting England. Donnington
Hall, a country-house especially fitted l T
German officers at public cost of _ £20,000,
seems to our ally an absurd romantic anach-
ronism. .
Across this foolish atmosphere of illusion
in which England enveloped herself came
suddenly the stories of the atrocities: the
horror which they raised “may be regarded
to-day as the principal and invincible ele-
ment of the English will to conquer. In-
sults to captured English prisoners hardened
that will. The author holds that it is psy-
chologically impossible for England ever to
give in. And once England gets an idea
into her head it is impossible for Germany
to expel it. “The war will come to an end
one day, but England will never forget.”
In fact, we may add that as it took England
three years to realise that a real war was
on, so it will take England three years after
the declaration of peace to get into her head
the unexpected idea that the war is over.
Germany thought she had foreseen every
material contingency, yet the appearance of
the immense British army is one of the
largest and most decisive of contingencies:
Germany omitted to take note of a spiritual
reality—the English mind. This logical
Frenchman cannot understand why England,
with an immense improvised army, should
not merely number the regiments. Such an
arrangement was too abstract and logical for
the English mind: so each regiment was
affiliated with old British regiments, with all
their queer complications of fanciful names,
badges and mascots. The Germans were
bewildered and annoyed in the presence of a
nomenclature so devoid of technical and
mathematical qualities. But Chevrillon does
not forget to insist upon England’s main
mistake, which was not to have prepared for
war: for 10 months while France impati-
ently waited, England, the classic country of
mechanical industry on the great scale,
showed herself powerless and incompetent.
But during that 10 months, when she had
>t enough munitions to supply an adequate
s ]- : to change her whole method
of life.
\ The author d’Mioses we extraordinary
Pressure brooch.' to beat upUn the slackers
beti) nr nii ml an d rose Led to euw. .
every eligible man in England was tackie_
and worried and threatened with English
pertinacity and thcruugi<ness—a ip l , o*
terror in comparison with which eTonscno-
tion was peace. All this merely in order to
be logical to English ideals, to preserve the
alleged liberty of the subject. As a result of
the war England will lose a great deal of all
that made for her intense color and the
unique figure she presented to the world.
Under the spur of the alternative of decay
and death she has become greyly rational.
Some Magazines
Hermes, the magazine of Sydney Univer-
sity, appears in its August issue in an
enlarged and more dignified form. It isn’t
very bright; but satisfactorily covers the
various activities of the University. Ex-
cuses must be made for the conditions
inherent in the production of a university
magazine, the chief of which are that the
work usually devolves upon a small band of
enthusiasts and that the editor rarely holds
office for more than a year. The present
editorial staff, however, has done much to
give Hermes its important place in univer-
sity life. But an educational body in which,
theoretically, the best brains of the com-
munity are to be found, should show more
evidence of originality, clarity of thought,
sense of style and even humor than
appears in this journal. The least pretentious
magazine produced by Billjim at the Front
has in it more vitality; and Billjim is not
usually picked for Ms scholastic attain-
ments.
S
The Zodiac, a sixpenny illustrated
monthly produced by the staffs of the East-
ern and Associated Telegraph Companies
(Electra House, Finsbury Pavement, London
E.C.2.), has interest for all Australasian
cable men. The June issue contains a valu-
able article telling all that may now be told
of the exciting part played by the submarine
cable stations in the war. What the Censor
would not permit publication of would doubt-
less be even more interesting, but enough in-
formation is given to satisfy most readers.
At Fanning Island, after the cable had been
cut by the Hun and all extra parts de-
stroyed, Hugh Greig improvised extraordi-
nary means to make the connection. The
Cocos Island staff were equally resourceful.
And we learn that the cable ships played
parts of great value in the Gallipoli adven-
ture. Finally, the company has laid new
strategic cables in many parts of the globe,
“in an atmosphere of high adventure” ; and
when it is permissible to mention these
achievements the story of one of them, \ve
are told, “will be spacious in its setting.
J*
Having written 17 novels, seven fanta-
sies, three volumes of short stories, eight
dramas and 15 volumes of belles lettres, and
considering it about time that he had another
book on the stocks, Arnold Bennett allowed
a friend to ransack The New Age for the
articles Bennett wrote under a pseudonym
in 1908-1911. These are collected as Books
and Persons (Chatto and Windus, per Dym-
ock’s Library). Bennett was evidently a
bright youth, even for the Five Towns, and
he writes vivaciously upon topics that are
now quite dead. Interesting to glance over,
but impossible to read right through.
3
Science Progress (quarterly, 55., Mur-
ray) is always of interest to the scientific
student. Thus the mathematician will dis-
cover from the latest issue that G. H. Ilardy
and J. E. Littlewood “gave a remarkable
trigonometric series which is never‘conver-
gent or summable for any value of its argu-
ment, and is thus not a Fourier’s series;
and a function which has no finite differen-
tial quotient for any value of its argument.”
Why argue? Also, another scientist “estab-
lishes a method which enables us to deter-
mine the Cremona transformations with
seven fundamental points which correspond
to a given linear transformation of the
quartic curve.” In an entrancing article
upon the structure of gels we learn this re-
markable fact: “The gels of camphoryl-
phenylthiosemicarbazide investigated by Hat-
schek led him to suspect a crystalline struc-
ture formed by growth of amicrons into b.
network... .These gels appear to be typi-
cally elastic.” But it isn’t all like _ that.
In the July issue there is a non-technically-
written article upon the various theories of
the origin of the solar system, and an illus-
trated article, by W. M. Flinders Petrie,
upon “History in Tools.” The editor, Sir
Ronald Ross, writes trenchantly upon the
Indian civil servant, chosen from Oxford to
govern India, chiefly for the candidate’s pro-
ficiency in Greek and Latin, and lacking all
knowledge both of science and scientific
method. And this issue even includes a
poem, “The Song of the Ion,” from which
we steal one verse:—
I steal and I slip through Death’s ogre-like grip
That crumbles all else to dust;
And I bum like a star to my brethren afar,
With a sheen that can never rust;
Though a grain of sand were a Universe
To my realm,
!, my o’-biv should swerve-but a hair-fii’eadth’s curve,
Every planet must »• its helm.
Jt
The Sep term. Lsue of The Nev East,
edited by J. W. Huoeriauu oi-uui, puDiYsnea'
Tokyo, 50 sen, hast a remarkable leading
article dealing with the Japanese view of
the war. Referring to the Pacific, on which
a leading Japanese editor makes strong
Japanese claims, the editor of The New
East says: “The war vessels of Australia
and Maoriland have made a contribution to
the peace of the Pacific which should not be
overlooked. It is certain that the people of
Australia and Maoriland do not overlook
it. The British Government can no more
ignore the susceptibilities of Australia than
the Japanese Government can ignore the
interests of Formosa.”
J
Birth Notice: —To the Melbourne Literary
Club a boy ( Birth ) . Both doing well.
The infant is very small and very pink,
and is priced threepence. Its nappies are
made of neat sonnets, saftied with free
verse, and its bootees are knitted with edi-
tors’ notes. It is already Yol 1, No. 10
old; and if it gets some more fairy god-
mothers, each bringing her gift of a sub-
scription, Birth hopes to grow three times
as big. The kid has this page’s benedic-
tion ; even so tiny a voice yelling so lustily
in the literary wilderness of Melbourne
breaks the monotony of our commercial
environment.
•
The two most awkward and uncouth
words in the Australian —or Australasian—
language are Australasia and Australasian.
The noun and adjective serve a useful pur-
pose ; but a shot ter and less clumsy word
would equally well soothe the susceptibilities
of the Maorilander, who with a proper pride
objects to be lumped with this larger com-
munity as an Australasian. Ansae must
not be soiled for common use by the stay-at-
homes. Austral would perhaps do as the
needed adjective—though it still retains too
preponderant a flavor of the continent; but
we need also a noun. Hasn’t some Aus-
tralian or Australasian got a neater, shorter
adjective or noun to express our bond of
»ace and propinquity?
The competition for the best inscription
for a local memorial to our soldiers slain in
the war closes on November 17. The inscrip-
tion may be original or a quotation from an
Australian author. Entries must be
addressed to this page. Fuller particulars
on R.P. 11/10/T7. Half a guinea for the
best.
Australian as Spoken
“Baldhead” : “Copabella” recently made the Rea x>
blush with a selection of solecisms which he
peculiarly Australian; as a matter of fact thev* 8
mostly imports, like our shirts and eho’es iL 81 ?
from “Home.” But Australia can boast a few
mens of “Kultur” its very own. Take the word
school: a recent test has shown that almost invar;
ably the schoolboy, young and old, pronounces it
ske-ule. Likewise ke-ule for cool. Why’ He- W
only knows. Again to is twisted to tew, and 12
to youse, but this latter is born and bred in the
bush and rarely travels to town. The greatest
literary criminals (for we look to them for miid
ance) are our Sydney newspapers. Never a day hnt
Lindley Murray is grossly garrotted by them Two
singular nominatives coupled by the conjunction
and are generally accommodated with a verb in the
singular; but if separated by neither or nor to
equalise matters, the verb will be in the plural ’The
indicative mood generally stands to attention when
the subjunctive should fall in line. “None were”
has a fatal fascination for the Herald and Evening
News. Now that the strike is over, why not set to
work and build an up-to-date Australian academy’
The sooner our very own “Immortals” cart a lot of
literary garbage to the destructor the better.
An ex-public school-teacher: Isn’t all speech
largely imitative? If the child at home hears bad
English daily, formal grammar lessons won’t make
it speak correctly. The only thing for the teacher
to do is just what he is doing now. Instead of the
formal grammar lesson two or three times a week
he is always on the alert, stops the child when it
makes any error, shows it how to express the same
thing properly, and insists on repetition until the
correct phrase beoomes familiar to the child’s ear.
For pupils from 10 to 12 I found it an advantage
to take a short passage from, their ordinary reading
lesson, change the words into the usual fault”
grammar which they use, place the two side by side
on the blackboard, and let the class read them both
orally, as the ear wants training more than the eye.
At first they are amused, but soon they “sit up and
take notice,” and once you get them to take notice
that is another big step gained. Soon they will be
correcting each other in the playground, playfully
or sarcastically, according to their nature. By this
you will know their intelligence is aroused,' their
ears are being trained, and they are ready to take
a live interest in their formal grammar lesson.
“Bill R.”: The syllabus by which every teacher is
directed specifies English from the infant classes
onwards; and by a carefully compiled system of
phonetics even the baby’s class is regularly instructed
in correct pronunciation.
Alex. E. Montgomery: “Copabella’s” instances of
local grammatical lapses do not point to the coming
of “an Australian form of English.” They are just
plain, ordinary vulgarisms; not referable —like the
anomalies of' Canadian-French —to any dialectical
modification. Australians, by the way, are fond of
asserting that they have no dialect. Depends! A
dialect diverges from the parent first, in
sound, then in syntax, and, finally, in signification.
Change of meaning has, with us, hardly yet got
beyond such misuse of cognate terms as reckon,
for think or suppose; gammon for pretend; crack
for boast; and the syntactical perversions are merely
blunders. But Australian pronunciation has cer-
tainly reached dialectical status. I have taken
infinite trouble to prevent my daughters from acquir-
ing at school the vile vowel-sounds which, as “C."
sars, rr.ay one day be unquestioned Australian usage,
but which are absolute phonetic atrocities. I had
trouble enough with gouing, biby, cyaou; skyeeool,
winda; yeh for you; ynr for my; smaoll for small,
and so on. P the'hardest task of all was to make
the nroper Jffind of broad a supplant the curious
_> that turns man into mee-an.
“Mark Adelong,” after declaring that our
mistake j are of Cockney and not Australian origin,
tells us how to pronounce cow: The awful Australian
pronunciation is due—and I have had quite a decent
amount of success in combating it—to the misplacing
of trie v oice. Place the voice correctly, well out on
the lips, and the faulty pronunciation of “ow” and
“ad" requires an effort; place it wrongly, as most
Australians ur' tunately do, right at the back of
the mouth, the correct pronunciation requires
ar. effort. Ti> ’orward voice placing can be incul-
cated by the following method, patiently repeated
again and ag :in : Hum the sound “m" on the lightly-
eioaed lips with the teeth apart; then, without pause
or stopp g, c >en the lips to the sound “oo” ; treat
all the pure vowels similarly, then follow up with
the diphthongal vowels.
“Chink”: There’s a very urgent need for someone
to arise and shout the word Australia in the collec-
tive ear of the varlets who run the State School
Magazine of N.S.W. They are doing much ham to
Australian writers by virtually training every kiddy
from Hungerford to Albury in the belief that his
(and her) country is so drought-stricken in letters
that it has to loaf on other lands for literary pabu-
lum. Take the current issue. October is the Biro-
month” throughout the Commonwealth, and the
School Papers of the period are expected to devote a
good deal of attention to our infinite variety or
winged Australians. It isn't a difficult job by an}
means ; for Australia now has about the premises any
number of birdologists who are willing at any tiin
to give kiddies a helping of short articles ami Photo-
graphs of wild birds. And this is how N.S.W. n
risen to the occasion: One grade of the
has six alleged articles on the bird-topic, of whm
batch five contain no reference to Australian nr *>>
the four sets of verses were all made in England
U.S.A. ; and not one local photograph is incluaea.
In the next grade Australian bird-notes have
slightly better run; while the upper-grade l
hands out one local bird-article (illustrated
an English photo and a sketch shocking!}
representing the Australian mudlark.) C ?P
this trageav with the corresponding School r y -
of Queensland. In these are included
prose contributions from Randolph Bedford,
Rudd, E. S. Emerson, “Beachcomber” B
half a dozen other local scribes known directly
bird-men; M. Forrest, Emerson and the
Ernestine Hemmings supply original v^ r ® es ' ~v
Quinn and one or two others are * ev £“ an( }
quotations from The Bulletin and Lone ,
the illustrations comprise nearly 30 ori S ll **V
artistic photographs of Australian birds or *


a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
ECONOMY IN UNI-PHANE
Q VvV
:,«W'
Sly;
I?- 1 -,
UNI-PHANE, a particularly fine
Cambric, is woven in England,
specially to our order, from the
finest Egyptian Cotton. It is I2in.
wide and of unsurpassable quality.
It is silk-like in texture, of exquisite
softness and purity, and is strongly
recommended for the highest grade
of Dainty Lingerie for Ladies and
Children.
The shipment now offered was pur-
chased at pre-war prices, and offers
wonderful value. Indeed, it could
not be obtained to-dav in London
at the prices we now quote.
Heavy-weight, 12/9 doz.
Light-weight, 14 6 do i.
Exceptional Value in Towels.
British-made Towels are exceptionally scarce in England. Our
stocks, however, are large, and they are offered at prices below which it
would be impossible to purchase them in London to-day. Here are a
few examples:—
FRINGED WHITE TURKISH TOWELS.
Size, 24 x 39, 20 x 40, 21 X 46, 24 x 46, 22 x 46, 25 x 50, 26 x 50, 27 x 52, 28 x 58, 28 x 57, 30 x 58 in.
1/- 1/3 1/6 1/8 1/11 2/3 2/6 2/9 3/3 3/11 4/3 ea.
HEMSTITCHED WHITE TURKISH TOWELS.
Size, 24 x 45, 25 x 52, 24 x 49, 30 x 58 27 x 56, 32 x 60, 42 x 63, 41 x 57 in.
2/6 3/- 3/3 3/11 4/6 5/6 6/- 6/9 ea.
ECONOMY in DINNERWARE
The Dinnerware here
illustrated is but one of
the many different pat-
terns on offer at the
NEW PALACE EM-
POKIUM. All kinds of
Crocdcery, owing to the
war, have greatly in-
creased in price, and they
are bound to further rise
in value. By sending
an order now for a Din-
ner Service, the saving on
future expenditure will
be considerable.
•a
v?
amaLtsmsmtfixnai'iixtt
YfMS- f
r >»* > ~-
DINNER SERVICES.
GREEN POPPA’ (as illustrated) .... 32/6
BROUN POPPY 33/6
GREEN FLAX MAN 37/6
BLUE JEWEL 47/6
SHIVERY ORIENTAL 49/.
CANTON PRESTON 43/6
GREEN LELAND 43/6
IMPERIAL 31/-
ST. REGENT 28/6
BLUE MADELEY 55/-
GREEN FLORIDA 33/6
ROYAL FLUTE 27/6
NYE 43/6
GREEN BOMBAY 49/6
GLADYS (Royal Doulton) 55/-
CHRISTMAS BUSH (Royal Doulton) £5
ECONOMY in PLATED WARE
Nothing Adds more Attractiveness to the Dining-room than High-class
Silverplate. The Wonderful Variety of Silverplate we stock is by far the
Most Complete in the land. Not only is the Quality of the Highest, but
the Goods can be Bought at ANTHONY lIORDERXS’ FAMOUS LOW
PRICES.
sSMSfvfin
r
Dinner Cruet, .Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut-glass
Hottles, 30/.
F t VT fVT
t]Ai
m
Butter Dish, Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver. Cut-glass
Dish. 25/-
if!
rrfti
m
Dinner Cruet, Elec-
tro-plated on Nickel
Silver, 6 Cut-glass
Bottles, 37/6.
tea
Jam Dish, Unity Glass,
Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver Stand, 10/6.
"W
Oak Biscuit Bar-
rel, Mounted Elec-
tro-plate on Nickel
Silver, 20/-
Jam Dish, Silver-plated
on Nickel Kilter Stand,
with Ruby Glass, 17/6.
ECONOMY IN CLOCKS
The King Ansonia.
ENAMELLED CLOCKS.
AXSOXFA Clocks have gained a world-
wide reputation for their accurate time-
keeping qualities. Anthony Horderns’ sell
Ansonias in Wood, Marble, Gilt, Bronze and
Enamelled Iron, all of which can be relied
upon to faithfully proclaim the passing hour.
The Ansonia Wood Mantel Clocks here
enumerated are 8-day, half-hour strike time-
pieces with Gin. dial.
%
//
m
m
m
The Venice Ansoma,
THONY HORDERN L SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


HUDSON
HUDSON
SUPER
SUPER
■'AX
JU£
' y
±
■
PLENTY OF POWER in HUDSON CLOSED CARS
The tremendous reserve power of the Hudson Super-Six motor carries the
Hudson closed cars with ease. None of the sluggishness so common to most
o o
cars of this type is found in the Hudson.
Hudson Limousines, Town Cars and Landaus are masterpieces of design.
In beauty and luxury they are distinctive. Many cars that cost more do not
equal them.
On the boulevards of all the leading American cities and throughout the world
you see Hudsons. They are the choice of fine car owners .
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalg'ety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Cane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson &. Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J. Brien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address: HUD3ONCAR—DETROIT.
•STS* '^Xn^
sll
B
•--I
r* '
fo?
M
/'
V*
» ..
LCf^.
SSW
#
ft
*#2
*
WA
< ¥^\\S^
VA
■'■■
7JM
&
\>>
\ y*
M
1 fgggllgl mm MW
.
f
■ .. 1 ..* v sf Q;
mm m
m, J
4-:
,V;i ;!
■ ; , ■-.. ' ■
; : W
:; iani:-
ix': i: : i. . .•>:■
: . i ■. ■:
IJa
' Hi
• .
: V
a
111 i|i
1111 l Wmm
yyyy-
NATURALLY, THE COW WAS ASTONISHED
YOU WOULD ALSO BE ASTONISHED
If you saw Samples of the many Dainty Dishes that are made with
NBSTLESMIiIK
A VALUABLE RECIPE BOOK. POST FREE (on mentioning this paper) on application to
NESTLE & ANGLO-SWISS CONDENSED MILK CO.
SYDNEY BRISBANE MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART
NESTLE’S MILK


CHRISTIE?
SPECIAL/^
lines
s# 5
WG.TE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS?/
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
/iO/MTER NEWCASTLE
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT **
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout A Co.. 229 Strand. London.
ARE YOU n
Ruptu reD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WIN SLOW" CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
s£nvt> tKv? Tcde <sf a
&ch>a£ic'ttuj ‘cfe&r I
ISeshpre t>cfut
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
n plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Constipation Bugbear
cases of chronic constipation, which
no longer respond to the usual physic and cath*
artic “cures”, may be successfully treated by the
use of Nujol as an internal lubricant
The Nujol treatment for constipation has received
the endorsement of leading specialists both in this
country and abroad. It has none of the dangers of
the habit-forming physics, and is of particular value
in the treatment of constipation in children.
Nujol is not digested or absorbed into the system.
It acts merely as an internal lubricant.
Nujol is not a drug. Drugs give quick, temporary
relief but they aggravate the very condition they are
meant to cure. But Nujol is a genuine remedy in that
it relieves constipation in the most natural way by
jubricating the lining of the intestines, softening the
intestinal contents, and thus promoting healthy and
(SlliSfiiifallSl
'TV'"
+st.
rNsMlii mU l
normal bowel activity. The use
of Nujol is not attended with the
griping or distress that follow the
use of drug remedies.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(New Jersey)
U. S. A.
Nujol
TRADE U MARK
FOR CONSTIPATION
Atk yoor chemist (or booklet. Najol
h sold only in 16 ounce bottler bearing
the Nujol tredenierk. Never in bulk.
Avoid substitute*
13
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
1
9
Right Makes Might
RIGHT ideals of building, the rule
which puts quality first; here is the
might that has built Firestone fame.
Right design, right materials, right work-
manship, right service; this has been
the Firestone standard for 16 years. It
is the secret of a success without rival in
sales-increase and industrial prestige.
Ride on Firestone Tyres for luxurious
comfort, insurance against delay or acci-
dent and the economy of Most Miles per
Shilling. Let your nearest dealer serve you.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing- Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Katrkk & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand,
Obtainable at all Gcraget
Write for llluetrated Literature
TYRES
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rainbow.
Down in the garden the rainbow is spinning
Little loose bobbins of beryl and blue.
Creamy-white fairies their curls are unpin-
ning,
Shaking pink pinafores woven of dew.
Hurry up, little girls! Hurry up, little
boys,
And catch the big bow with its lapful of
toys,
Where Puck and his pixies are clinging and
flinging
Pale, pearly-white bells from their fingers
and toes—
Their round little toes—
And when the breeze blows.
It’s only the children w T ho hear the bells
swinging,
High-ringing and singing,
As all the world knows.
Get out your bucket, and put on your bon-
net.
Quick, or the little blue bobbins will go.
Dig up the gold, wfith the roses upon it.
Growing in heaps at the end of the bow.
Hurry up, little girls! Hurry up, little boys!
You’ll miss the bow bending with junkets of
joys,
Where Mab and her maidens are tripping
and dipping
On tiny green slippers, like slim little girls,
Like rosy-white girls,
All ribbons and curls,
That over the lavender beaches are skipping,
Are flipping and tipping,
All bubbles and pearls.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The March of Life and Death.
Last night, when wolfish weather
Howled loud on land and sea,
A friend and I together
Foregathered, knee to knee.
We talked of song and story
And battles won and lost,
And war and warrior-glory.
And all that glory cost.
The loud winds ceased their riot
As though to gather breath,
And in the moments quiet
We heard the March of Death.
Beneath the blast of battle
We saw the legions fall
And heard the rifles rattle;
And Death was lord of all.
With scornful pennons flying
He marched from town to town,
And filled the air with sighing,
And struck the temples down.
No force might stay his motions,
His slow, resistless tread ;
He swept across the oceans,
And dyed their azure red.
His jaw, grown wide with gorging
The lives of men, red-glowed ;
And. through the thick smoke forging,
His mighty shoulders showed.
Beneath his bulk titanic,
Towers crumbled into dust;
And pallid hordes in panic
Ran shrieking, arms out-thrust.
Before him swept his minions—
Disease and battle-wrack ;
Huge limbed, with night-black pinions,
He kept his triumph-track.
Beneath him, rent and sundered,
The pipes of Peace lay mute;
Tongues told and cannon thundered
His kingship absolute.
And then the loud wind’s riot
Died down on land and sea,
And in the sudden quiet
We shivered, knee to knee.
The dull fire, greyly sleeping.
We stirred to light the gloom,
Till ruddy flames, upleaping,
Made roseate the room.
Red wine, big-bodied, fruity,
We poured to hearten us;
And then of Love and Beauty
We thought, conditioned thus.
The loud winds ceased their riot,
Their tumult and night-strife;
And in the soothing quiet
We heard the March of Life.
Despair and doubt reproving,
It came with comfort sweet—
That merry-measured moving
Of Life’s untiring feet.
Where Death had wrought, thereafter
She came with healing hands,
And touched to light and laughter
The bruised and wounded lands.
On earth and air and ocean.
All things proclaimed her reign :
She set the sap in motion,
And burst the shell in twain.
Sweet gifts on cot and palace.
Down-bending, she bestowed;
And from her golden chalice
Exhaustless beauty flowed.
And thus, gloom trampled under.
Bright burned the lamps of hope.
’Tis Life not Death with wonder
That fills our mortal scope !
With flowers and fruitage laden.
Through time and space she wends;
And Love is her handmaiden.
And Peace her first of friends.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


if'
'lf
/#!
yw
mm,
\\s~
*''v /
f”--
S’’
m:-:*
V.
I
r- r V
. *v/ *
' •
•^ V
r?K
mm&r *%
i
lilll
v" fc/A V '""uS
Rubber Garden Hose
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
In the purchase of Garden Hose as in the purchase of other lines,
Quality Counts. The higher grades are without a doubt cheaper in the
end because of the greater durability of the better quality rubber and fabric.
“WATERSHED”
RED RUBBER GARDEN HOSE.
We are the originators of this Red Hose
which has proved to be far superior to any.
Will not peel, kink, crack nor burst.
“ PROSPECT”
BLACK RUBBLR GARDEN HOSE
A good reliable hose at a
very low price
Obtainable from all Storekeepers.
PLRDRIAU
RUBBER CO. LTD..
Australian Manufacturers of all Rubber Goods
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE.
V
G
John Lysaght Limited wili be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee '
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
THE
ABBOT
Drip Filters.
FOUNTAIN
GLASS PORTABLE
WATER BAG
POCKET
WATER
FILTER
it Pressure Filters.
HOUSEHOLD
TAP
COUNTER
May be obtained from Storekeepers throughout Australasia or from the Manufacturers.
MANUFACTURED BY
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
UO a
/
“SAFETY FIRST.”
YOU, MR. CAR-OWNER, HAVE A TREMENDOUS INTEREST HERE!
So Has Every Member of Your Family—
and Every Friend Who Rides in Your Car.
THE RESPONSIBILITY RESTS RIGHT ON YOU!
GOODRICH sends you a message and Points Out a Protection
SAFETY— .
When the road is dry you won t skid. Rut
Unfortunately the rain, the mud and the muck are often with us.
And with them on the job, when you make a sharp turn your Tyres have
nothin«■ to grip; they skim over the ooze, and then comes that dizzy, sickening
slide around the corner; and if you .don’t go smashing into the kerb or piling
into a ditch you're lucky.
The solution is obvious —STOP TIIE SKID!
Rut how? There's the problem.
GOODRICH has solved it for you—with the GOODRICH SAFETY
TREAD. , , ..
just take a look at those cross-bars, on the trend and you 11 get the idea.
It's simple—one row scrapes away the grease and mud and the next has a
clean, hard space to grip—and you bet it grips. Direction makes no difference- —
the skid doesn’t even start.
There’s sense to the principle. It is based on scientific reasoning, and each
bar is there for a real purpose—not for ornamentation or difference.
Jon the SAFETY FIRST MOVEMENT —equip with GOODRICH
SAFETY TREADS —ride care-free and safe.
THE GOODRICH SAFETY TREAD TYRE
The Cheapest Insurance You Ever Bought.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St., 13 Castlereagh St., 300 Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE.
Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; A. C. MacCallum, Perth; Robt. Nettlefold, Hobart.
Martell’s has a reputation of 200 years, and its richness
in higher ethers makes it of inestimable value in case
of sickness.
MARTELL’S
Fine Old Cognac
BRANDY.
The quality
that delights
Thorne’s is an exceedingly good whisky, and the more
cultured a man’s taste the more he enjoys. Thorne’s.
It is of matchless flavor, undoubted purity, and quality
that has stood the test for 80 j^ears.
Ask for Thorne’s next time.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.-No. 1969.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1917.
I’kick 6d.
“YOUR TURN NEXT!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
‘‘Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every iveek for a
■year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 lfis. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
tvords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
ivhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town,-Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., l/I/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu .—Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt ,—lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Hone Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id: Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2sd.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1917.
THE SOLEMN BUSINESS OF HELPING
BILLJIM.
The Bulletin makes no excuse for recall-
ing its solemn and reiterated warning, when
„ . War-
Hughes was tiumpeting hs -
Ministry up and down the country, that
William was once more preparing to sell
the people a gold-brick. Every day since then
has brought proof that this was true. And
. . 1 ~ . ~ .
now it is not even in the mouth of the mos
windy blatherskite of them all to deny, with-
out provoking derisive laughter, that the
brick is on the counter. If Parliament were
, . , ■ , , ......
anything but a party-ridden institution,
capable of prostituting the national\ inter-
ests, it would be unnecessary to ask how
much longer such a Government was going
to endure—because it would have crumpled
up long ago Meed 'were the: Ml. i»
ritj^ovef 1 the
wealth, no such trick would be possible as the
one which was played upon them when they
were six months younger and the machinery
f „.2
whiS V had“surreptitiously decidedl to carry on
But it is with things as they are not as
they might be, that the citizens have to deal
YVherefore the peisistence of a Government
which on its own admission is without
authority to do anything except give exhi-
bition side-steps, and the possibility of in-
during it to face responsibility, acquire a
spine and be reasonably decent, are matters
incidental to another question of overwhelm-
ing importance to Australian men, women
and children.
*. * *
That question is the war. Than the up-
shot of the mighty struggle there is nothing
and never has been anything within the
whole range of human affairs so vital to
Australia. Everything turns upon victory
for the Allies—not only the nitre issue of
where the greatest military strength rests,
but the fundamental question of Australia’s
liberty and life. The war is not yet over.
It is neither won nor even nearly won. If
it is not won Australia will' pay the price
within the lifetime of men now living as
surely as to-morrow will last all day
long. Look at even the superficial
facts (and let us be sure that we know only
the best of them) —the Russian steam-roller
helplessly ditched ; Roumania and Servia in
the enemy’s grip; Belgium under his heel;
Northern France a shambles; Italy reeling
and divided ; Poland in danger of joining our
enemies; the submarines sinking a dozen or
more big steamers every week ; and the Ger-
man armies holding off what are probably
the most violent and most prolonged attacks
ever launched in war. What is the good of
talking about the war being won or going to
terminate at the Spring push, or of there
being anything certain about it all except a
desperate, demented struggle for existence?
And what could it be but the basest treach-
ery to this Australia of ours and to the
armies of those other nations which threw
themselves across the track of an invader of
the world and there perished in defence of
all those finer ideals of freedom that we in
this country have glibly talked about —what
could it be but treachery if the people of the
Commonwealth allowed their fighting
strength to run down when defeat, or some-
thing that meant the same thing, was still
very possible? It will take every ounce the
Allied peoples possess to strangle the mili-
tary monster bred in Middle Europe. The
naked reality for Australians is that their
power is not being exerted to the full, and
that if they go on as they are going now,
foolishly dreaming about a beaten enemy or
feebly wondering where reinforcements are
to come from, the Commonwealth will
soon be in the position of being able to offer
no more than a wasting resistance to the
German. How many Australians wish to
see this? In the judgment of The Bulletin.
very few. In the event of all going well and
the Commonwealth being relieved of the in-
cubus threatening it to-day, how many would
derive anything but mortification from the
knowledge that our own endurance had
failed under test and others had done for the
liberty of the world what we had refused
to face? This paper still thinks very few;
it resolutely declines to believe that any Aus-
tralian would find reasons for giving three
cheers because the population included
thousands of men fit for military service who
had not struck a blow for their country or
their mates. It may be all very well for
Frank Tudor, leader of the Labor party in
the Commonwealth Parliament, to babble
beside the Yarra about the time having
arrived for “representatives of all nations to
sit down and discuss terms of peace.” It
may suit the Federal Ministry to talk about
its anxiety to win wars and keep the practi-
cal side of the business hidden away out of
sight. But neither of these things damage
the enemy. What they do succeed in doing
is to exasperate an enormous number of citi-
zens and prove to them that in this matter
the politicians have got themselves and the
electors tied up in a knot.
The bald fact is that recruiting has fallen
away to next to nothing, and that unless the
methods now followed are changed it will
fall down dead. This is where the Win-the-
War party comes in and all the fatal blun-
ders and the cowardly evasions and promises
of the general election arrive in a heap.
What are these war-winners going to do?
Badly as they like the job, they have to
decide, or it looks as if they will be chased
by their own friends into the bush. Four
courses are open to the Ministry by which
it can get the handcuffs off and roll away
the stone now resting on the nation: —
(1) To go to the country on a definite war pro-
gramme.
(2) To take another plebiscite on compulsory
service.
(3) To pass legislation providing for compulsory
service and make the concrete measure the subject
of a referendum.
(I) To resign and give the other side whose
policy it has been following a chance.
Of these the most workable is probably the
third. It would certainly be better than
having another nose-count on a bald project
such as formed the basis of the last disturb-
ance. It would give the people a fairer
deal than they would get out of an election
at which at least 726 other subjects would
be flung into the' riot. It would bring down
to bedrock the question of whether Aus-
tralia was to be a quitter. One of these
courses the Ministry must follow. And it
owes it to that great host of Australians
who genuinely want to win the war that it
shall cut itself adrift from every influence
which has hitherto contributed to the
humiliating failures of the past. The
Bulletin supports compulsory service with
as much enthusiasm as ever, but it would
find it hard to imagine that a Win-the-War
party which went to the country either
directly or by referendum under the guid-
ance of William Hughes was as honest in
intention as it would probably try to make
out. Hughes killed the plebiscite weeks
before it was cast and kept on slaying it
right up to the ballot-box. That done, he
bound a majority of the new. Parliament
hand and foot before they were elected, and
gave the Commonwealth an Administration
so paralysed that within a month it was
an object of contempt. Why should a Win-
the-War programme be again jeopardised by
this loquacious Jonah? Why should its
supporters be doomed to carry on a cam-
paign directed by a man who has earned
for himself universal distrust? This paper
knows of no valid reason. Instead it sees
a scorg of reasons why, in the interests of
Australia and of winning the war, Hughes
should sacrifice himself by wagging a vain
and valiant tongue off-stage somewhere. The
strengthening of our armies raises an issue
that every Australian citizen has a right to
demand shall be given a fair run, unencum-
bered by an individual who, by his fumbling
and bungling, has twice converted it into
a degrading orgy of personal hates. It is
simply no use Hughes trying to win this
war with anything but his chin, and The
Bulletin seriously submits to Australia
that the present situation in Europe is too
menacing and the need of recruits for the
national army too grave for the Common-
wealth to place its trust on that weapon.
Hughes’s chin is simply played out.
THE BLADE OF DAMASCUS.
When men first made coins to facilitate the
exchange of goat-steak for Rhodian potteiy
or the script of Sapphic odes for sweet wine
they found a metal called electrum, which
was a native mixture of gold and silver. The
counters stamped with a picture of some-
thing or somebody and marked with a Greek
letter or two proved useful, and the idea of
money became general. Next, silver was found
and used in the place of electrum, and after
that copper and gold got to the mint and
were tried in turn. So it went on until in
the course of ages trouble arose over the
fact that some countries had a gold standard
and some a silver, and that consequently the
relative values of things which should have
been steadfast were always moving and hop-
ping about. Then bimetallism arose in all
its armor of words, and, harking back to
the primitive electrum coinage, and stating
itself in terms of the entire dictionary, plus
a vocabulary of angry American, drove whole
communities partially insane. It was one
of those things that with infinite wrangle
and jar wasted the time and distracted the
attention of civilisation while Wilhelm
matured his blood-lust and ripened his fire-
works ; for bimetallism had another mean-
ing than any those who advocated it
dreamed of. The smiths of Damascus had
discovered, and afterwards lost, the secret of
welding gold to tempered steel. There was
the hint of the real bimetallism —the
material out of which the modern coinage of
death could be made —and the Kaiser under-
stood the grim and awful possibilities of the
mixture. Steadily day by day and year by
year he hammered them in the German work-
shop. The gold-earning ships that came and
went under his imperial flag and made. Syd-
ney a port of call were a part of his coiner’s
outfit; the importing craze which placed a
“Made in Germany” mark in every house in
the continent was a chemical element in the
flux which made that welding of discordant
metals possible. For gold and steel have no
natural friendship. They are utterly apart
and distinct alike in their habits and their
purposes; but under the hammer of state-
craft they can be mixed as surely as they
were when the miracle of the Damascus
blade first splashed its delicate inlay work
with red. The Kaiser used that hammer to
fearful puprose; and now from dire neces-
sity other nations whose dreams were bigger
than a sword are forced to use it also.
The old chatter about bimetallism has been
completely drowned-out in the death-chorus
of the guns; but it is time the real bimetal-
lism was considered. In fact, it is the one
thing of most serious import to the human
race in this time of calamity. In exchange
for the lives of their enemies the big nations
of Europe are giving their wealth. That
wealth is their gold and their credit blended
into murdering steel. It is a real coinage
that Haig throws on .the. counters of Flan :
ders and the Austro-German armies toss
down at the foot of the Alps—a coinage that.
buys wihat its owners desire. If there could
only be enough of it, it would purchase the
wreckage of the whole planet. Such a
bimetallism is the world’s supreme tragedy.
A bragging Greek philosopher declared that
if he had a place to put his lever he could
shift the world. It is no idle figure of
rhetoric, but the most tremendous fact, that
with enough gold to weld into the steel a
person of the disposition of the Kaiser could
smash the world. Fortunately for the rem-
nants of civilisation and the people in Aus-
tralia who won’t help to finish the war, there
appears to be a lot more gold to put into the
Allied coinage of ruin than the Kaiser is
ever likely to dig out on his side of the
Rhine; and England and America, bidding
higher in the death-market for the carcase
of Germany than the Kaiser does for the
dead body of the world, are likely to have the
thing knocked down to them by auctioneer
Destiny. Then we can get busy thinking
about our universal coinage and endeavor to
find a new mode of conducting international
commerce. Hitherto the ships and the shops,
the factories and the sheep-runs and the
cornfields have been, in the last resort, only
adjuncts to murder. Civilisation itself has
but piped a tune to hearten the gunsmiths.
From age to age the wealth made has been
used up in trying to drive sections of man-
kind off the earth; and the real trade of
peoples resolves itself into the attempt to
murder the rival storekeeper.
Some means must be found to destroy the
bimetallism of princes, potentates and
ambitious statesmen. Human creatures,
wrestling with their conditions for bread
to eat and a rag to wear, do not hate their
fellows merely because they come from the
other side of a political dividing line. It
is true there are elements in the human
make-up that may leave us in danger of
some sort of war even when the dove is
roosting on the peace trumpet and the
nations have been fanned with olive wreaths
into comparative quiet. Men may stampede
one another into actual bloody conflict
through the minor misunderstandings likely
to arise when racial heads are of different
shapes. But wars of that kind, bad business
as they are locally, have no real resemblance
to the vast, cold-blooded horror which
Wilhelm prepared. All humanity—even
the German part of it—must feel that. The
big resources of the country beyond the
Rhine, the ability and energy and industry
of the people who lived there, 40 years of
steady toil and trade and education —all have
been taken by a force quite outside the
thought of the simple Hans and Fritz and
turned to the abominable business of mak-
ing corpses. Because arbitrary power held
the German gold, which stands for German
wealth, and could fu§£ and weld it with
destroying steel, every soul, good or bad.
who lived and died in Germany during the
last 40 years has lived and died for
the purpose of murder. Not even the fiercest
anti-German would ever say that the people.
• as a people, meant that or desired it. It
is the bimetallism which kings are able to
handle that makes it possible. And very
clearly the remedy lies with the peonle.
Within the last few days Norway has taken
away from all future governments the power
of making war on another people. Exactly
how that might work out in days to come
it is difficult to say ; for there are conceiv-
able circumstances in which Norway
be unworthy of its nationhood if it n l
reach out a strenuous fist to an aggressor
who could understand no other language
On the other hand, there are simple method*
by which any war that may be waged mZ-
be the peoples war; and a people's™
would m the nature of things be a verv
rare event. Ages ago the cash supply of
the English nation was vested entirely in
the hands of the Commons, who Were sun
posed to represent the blacksmith baker
and corn grower. Only the Commons could
give the king money to carry on a war
That is still the case; and in some sense
British wars must always be people’s wars
though in practice the people have no direct
say about them until they are over. Then
they may punish a Ministry for its mis-
deeds. as they trod upon Beaconsfield at
the first opportunity after his bolstering of
the Turks against the Russians, and as
they outed with scorn the Conservative party
after the Boer calamity. To speak after
the event is not much good; but the root
idea is there all the same. An extension
of the power of the people so that they
only can weld gold to steel for fighting pur-
poses is a thing that need not be too diffi-
cult of achievement. The making of fight-
ing machinery should be absolutely forbidden
to Private Enterprise; and every penny
required by the State for that purpose should
be directly vpted by a Referendum of the
nation. That would be a safeguard of
peace ; and it is not beyond the bounds of
possibility that the war-scourged and war-
saddened nations might accept it in prin-
ciple and practice. That the Kaiser and his
like would never accept it is clear enough
They are bimetallists; and the union of gold
and steel is necessary to their very exist-
ence. But the world, in spite of all chances
and failures, has still a big hope that the
Kaiser will be hanged early and well; and
when that happy and holy event is past
there will be room for a great revival of
sanity in human endeavor.
THE CRADLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Contact !” said the young man who fiddled
with the engine, while his friend twirled the
walnut-wood propeller.
“Contact!” echoed the pilot in the seat
behind.
“Splut! splut! splut!” spat the engine.
“All right!” and two other young men
stepped aside from in front of the extremi-
ties of the lower planes. The wind rushed
back, as the grass raced under the rubber-
tyred wheels, and we sped along the level.
In a slanting fashion the green earth
descended, and we slid up a long slope of air,
the wind shrieking through the taut stays,
and always the drone and hum and roar of
the strong power that drew us towards the
scudding clouds above. Some farm build-
ings, with gum-trees about them, drifted
back beneath us, and the surface of the
earth became as a map, tinted in chocolate
and green, of a land-agent’s subdivision.
Far down on the left —rapidly becoming
nearer in direction and more distant in ele-
vation —lay the old settlement of The Green
Hills, which Lachlan Macquarie re-named
Windsor, after Mr. Surveyor-General Oxley
had aligned its streets out of reach of the
flooding ITawkesbury. Up and up we lifted
to the bases of driving clouds that trailed
wisps of sleety vapor in our faces. Their
grey bellies came very close above the upper
planes, like the sagging rumpled canvas of
a great circus tent stirred and shaken by
the wind.
Far down below, the little, ancient, sleepy
town lies along its ridge, from the dull-
brown brick pile of St. Matthew’s Church
to the old Barracks and the tiny, pitifully
dilapidated cottage which Macquarie built
for Government House. Some bright creeper,
growing on a trellis, is a vivid splash of
yellow amongst the dark roofs of the sur-
rounding buildings. The grassy square oppo-
site Andrew Thompson’s century-old
dwelling—which was named after that re-
markable young Scot —is the size of a
girl’s pocket-handkerchief. Beside the town,
and up and down across the map m
serpentine twistings, gleams the long rib-
bon of the Old River. It wanders through
the wide plain of the Ilawkesbury flats from
beside the indigo mountains to the west-
ward, down into the gorges and ravines that
begin where the long narrow trench of the
Colo, straight and deep in its bedding or
black forest, runs into it beside a closely
cultivated isthmus. Three thousand hye
hundred feet beneath us the white fowls m
the back yards of little Wilberforce sc^. rr J
violently for cover from the fearful bird,
roaring and spitting in the heavens abo\e
them. They are curiously distinct and P lain
from up here. No other living thing is so
visibly moved by our passage overhead, tm
deed, we must be the very deadliest sort
super-eaglehawk to those respectable an
worthy Leghorns so far below the spread 0
our yellow 7 pinions. Somehow, their terr
adds to one’s self-esteem. ,
The whole world is infinitely vaster than
one is used to seeing it. Far and far,
every side, the long lands stretch into
haze of a tremendously expanded horiz _
Straight down below —on the spot tha
would bump if Mr. Gravity had his way
is the middle of the world. Away from >
the terrain slopes upwards toward the
of a huge saucer. It is all level. n
valleys and high hills are no more ‘
the roughness on the rind of an. orange,
the whole landscape were a uniform c ’
the earth, from 5000 feet up, would seem 1
be one extensive, slightly concave •
Mountains and molehills would mane u
difference. All that would count won , g
rivers and roads and lakes. As it is.
only the color of the tops of. things
enables one to realise their mdivid
The dark green of the tree-tops, the ww -
and whites and reds of roofs, the J
and emeralds and burnt-siennas or re
lar fields, the gleam of water, and t , gV
lines of the highways are exactly a- .•
might be in a tinted map. Altogetn , j
ing dow T n at the planet, one seems » A
to realise the possibilities of some
Dimension. . \ u s-
But the main consideration to an -
tralian w r hen he is flying a mile a


Hawkesbury Valley is that he is taking as
comprehensive a glance as it is possible to
take at the Cradle of his Race. Down
below, along the banks of the twisting yellow
liver that meanders, from mountain to
mountain, through the well-defined angle of
alluvial that makes up the famous district, is
the land that bred the Australians. Not the
sandstone and pipeclay of Port Jackson, or
the ridges around Parramatta, or the pas-
tures of the Upper Nepean, or anywhere else
in the whole continent, can claim to have
suckled at its bosom the new man-child who
was born at the commencement of the Nine-
teenth Century. That is the claim of
Mother Oxberry alone. There is no one
by to observe a display of emotion but the
pilot —and he also is an Australian with in-
sular prejudices. Presently he stops the
engine, waves a hand out over emptiness and
calls to you against the rushing wind as we
drift gently through space:
“Fine, isn’t it?”
“My word !’’ you respond in the old idiom
that was coined below, a century back.
“ fine !”
It is not the scenery that is so inspiring
down there—the clouds are the finest
scenery when you are high aloft and the
earth is at best a: patchwork-quilt—it is
the whole sentiment of the place, the sort of
awe it fills you with, the esteem and affec-
tion that you must possess for the land that
bred you, be you never so unworthy of it.
For whether you come from the Hunter, or
the Western District of A*ictoria, or Darling
Downs, or Spencer’s Gulf, or Albany Sound,
or the Valley of the Derwent, when you have
come to the Hawkesbury you have come
home. This is your final spot, the nucleus
of your land, the heart of your country. It
should be the Mecca of Australians.
North, west and south they started out
from here—those brave pioneers who were
bred upon the river flats below. When you
rush downward to the aerodrome at the end
of your flight you are fifty feet or so above
old Clarendon House, where dwelt William
Cox, who made the road across the Blue
Mountains into, Australia—that wonderful
road to Bathurst Plains over which Lach-
lan Macquarie pompously progressed in the
year of AVaterloo, showering benediction and
his name broadcast over the country. You
sweep over the point where old Solomon
AA’iseman lived and the great North-road
passes onward to Cape York. Down to the
south, over those rolling dark-blue ridges,
young Hamilton Hume journeyed to the
Murray, and Major Mitchell made his way
down into Australia Felix. It was the
people of the Hawkesbury who went abroad
in the new lands, toiling in the footsteps of
these men. It was this virile race which
trekked with its women and its babies, its
oxen, its sheep, its corn-cobs, and its pump-
kin-seeds, over the ranges and the rivers, into
the wide world that was all Australia.
There are names down in those villages and
farmsteads still that are the names best
remembered in a hundred places a thousand
miles apart as those of the strong men who
pioneered the district. All over the Com-
monwealth the type of the Hawkesbury
native exists to-day. Their long bodies, their
tense sinews, their open eyes, their deep
chests are bred miles and miles away from
the river bends and wattle clumps where
their great-grandfathers made love to their
great-grandmothers —still is reproduced the
Cornstalk type, true to the standard that
was established by the Old Hands. It was
the spirit of the Hawkesbury native that
overcame mountain, and wilderness, and
desert. It was the same spirit that rushed
the beach at Anzac and walked into
Pozieres.
If there were nothing else that might lie
noted when you look at the valley from the
ceiling, there is one thins that would impress
you with the fact that here is the Cradle of
Australia. Up and down the river, from
AViseman’s to the Grove, there are the circu-
lar and oval tracings of training-tracks. And
some of them are so hidden in the dark foli-
age of the trees, and must be so difficult to
find when searched for on the ground, that
it is obvious that here also, was developed
that Australian domestic animal —the Dark
Horse. Long ago the young Cornstalk bred
him on the Hawkesbury, and Australia has
never lost him.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Simple Test—Where Are the
Men?
Talk about there being “no need to be
ashamed of what Australia has done and
“the splendid results achieved under the
voluntary system”—talk to which Defence
Minister Pearce is very prone-—has nothing
to do with the matter requiring attention.
The Australian armies have fought with a
fine courage. The Australian people have
for the purposes of war involved themselves
in enormous obligations. But the war
still goes on. If the conflict had termin-
ated last week the voluntaryism would at
least have been able to say that his system
had produced something that, was holding
its end up at the finish. But it had neither
terminated nor been brought anywhere near
termination. Wherefore the problem is
whether is it better that voluntaryism should
be justified by the valor of troops, who were
denied reinforcement, or should it be sup-
plemented by something that will keep the
voluntary army in condition to stand against
the enemy? Praise of our soldiers will not
defeat the German. Admiration of volun-
tary enlistment will not strengthen the oppo-
sition to him if when our men fall their
places are not filled. A voluntary rush for
enlistment a year or two ago and a painfully
inadequate enrolment now are two different
things, and it is the enlistment to-day and
to-morrow and the day after that matters.
Whether voluntaryism was successful yes-
terday is not worth arguing about. It it
pleases anyone The Bulletin will say that
the results were splendid, magnificent,
superb. But the enemy is unbeaten. Is
voluntaryism to be clung to merely for the
defence of a sentiment or a conviction, when
what has to be defended is a line of en-
trenchments and the nation behind it?
That is the crux of the business. If the
voluntary system cannot fill the blanks, is
it enough to say: “Very well. It provided
a brave army, and having done this there
is nothing more to do except make remarks
to that effect and wait for the exhausted
army to be wiped out!” The test must be
the continued strength of the army, and the
question for Australia is—Where are the
men? If the answer to that consists of
observations about something else, or assur-
ances that the men do not really matter,
the vital problem being whether a great
principle is to be maintained, the only com-
ment this paper has to make is that the
German could wish for nothing better.
♦
The Old Job at the Old Address—
After the War.
The snorts of “Never again!” that dis-
turbed the harmony at numerous “patriotic”
guzzles in Australia a year or two ago have
not been repeated very often lately ; but at
appropriate moments W. M. Hughes has
been heard frantically announcing that the
upas-tree had finally been dragged up by
the roots and Hamburg could no more expect
to get goods from this part of the world at
any future date than the Kaiser could hope
for a front seat in Heaven. Apparently
Hughes still clings to the foolish notions
which sent him on his journey to the Paris
Conference. Meanwhile an inconspicuous
item in the newspaper cables the other morn-
ing is worth remembering when an agitated
little man next tells them what he thinks
about foreign and enemy trade. Here it is:
The Washington correspondent of the United tress
Agency, referring to President Wilson’s dictum that
there shall be no commercial boycott after the war,
says that the various Allied missions to America have
informed the Tariff Commission that all the impor-
tant nations have abandoned their plans to deny Ger-
many markets.
They were silly plans, anyhow, and impos-
sible of realisation. Long ago this paper ex-
pressed the opinion that the “Never again !”
howl was mere hot air, and it still sticks
to the forecast that the first signs
of peace will be the gathering of multi-
tudinous commercial travellers behind the
struggling armies ready to leap across the
devastated battlefields with a bagful of
samples and easy conditions of payment.
The thing is inevitable, and it would be
just as well for Australians to get it into
their heads that all this talk by Hughes
is mere gas. If the German has the money
to buy wool after the war he will get the
jumbuck’s waistcoat either here or in Lon-
don, directly or indirectly, as certainly as
he will catch a cold in the head if he tries
the experiment of dressing in copies of Der
Tagblatter or the Argus. And Australia
will want that money as urgently as the
German will want a warm shirt. In any
case, the idea that there could be any pos-
sible gain to the world by trying to cooper
up of people in a trade boycott
belongs to a period covered with the dust
of ages. The fiscal and industrial lessons
of the war have not been to show that it
was an evil thing to sell the German wool
and metals and apples and all the rest of it.
The danger was in allowing the German
or anyone else to do what we and our
countrymen were too lazy or unenterprising
to do for ourselves. Germany did not grow
rich and powerful by refusing to trade with
other people, nor can Australia. The Ger-
man got the hang of his job and stuck to it.
The job the Australian has to become
acquainted with is that of using to the best
commercial and social advantage the material
at his hands —to acquire the technical and
scientific skill that will provide for his
own wants. Blither about post-war boy-
cotts is a poor substitute for resolution to
get out of the rut, besides being a fairly
certain method of prolonging the slaughter
now in progress.
♦
British Naval Administration.
The performance by German cruisers in the
North Sea the other day, when a dozen
merchantmen and a naval convoy were
sent to D. Jones, can have no pos-
sible influence on the war. But the
incident gives critics of the navy some use-
ful material for illustration of their case;
and so does the explanation made by First
Lord of the Admiralty Geddes last week.
The undisputed facts are that the vessels
left Norway for the Shetlands protected by
two destroyers, one of which was fitted
with wireless, and three s .all craft, of
which one also had wireless. This latter
vessel became detached from the main body.
Wherefore when the first shot fired by a
German cruiser in the early morning carried
away the aerials on the destroyer, the whole
outfit was at the mercy of the attacking
force, being too weak to make an effective
fight and unable to call for assistance.
Whatever may be said about the width of
the sea and various other things, all this
looks more like bad management than any-
thing else. If it is part of the game to keep
fast cruisers ready to dash to the help of
convoys, it is obviously poor business to
have the little convoying vessels so wretchedly
equipped with wireless that one shot can
destroy the connection between them and
their possible protectors. And as the Navy
has had frequent proof that the enemy is
addicted to rushing out in pursuit of these
collections of merchantmen, the events .of
the other day suggest that the cheese was
put on the rat-trap with a rather clumsy
hand. The gravamen of the criticism
launched at the Admiralty is that it has
shown lack of imagination; that its initia-
tive has been poor; that it has been con-
tent to be a shield instead of a sword ; that
its influence has been of the merely nega-
tive character, and that its positive achieve-
ments have yet to be heard about. Natur-
ally enough all this leads to nothing much
more than vague disputation. But getting
away from, the big general question, and
coming down to the details of particular
incidents, it is not improbable that John
Bull may conclude that, if the major
operations of the Navy are directed on the
same lines as are revealed by this North
Sea occurrence, the Admiralty has not im-
proved very much since the Dardanelles were
in the picture.
An Industry which Prospers on Its
Losses.
Price-fixing commissions, State control of
the marketing of products and other inno-
vations arising from the international car-
nage have yielded some queer results. The
moment there was an attempt to depart
from pre-war conditions and interfere with
the sacred law of supply and demand, every-
body with any product to sell was discovered
to be a patriot who was running his busi-
ness on the narrowest of margins. The
number of industrious people who simply
existed while appearing to be extremely
prosperous was amazing ; yet it is doubtful
if the ordinary public was either surprised
or convinced. The most stupendous ex-
posure of all was in the Kingdom of Cow.
Of all despairing industries butter-making
was the worst. Certainly for years past
the press had told a different story: pic-
tures of the prosperity of the industry, of
the wonderful growth of cow districts,
where the monthly cheque was certain and
sure, were regular features when space was
wide and the columns many. But appar-
ently all this was the outcome of a per-
verted imagination and consummate igno-
rance, for, according to evidence recently
given before the Inter-State Commission, the
cost of producing butter on the farm for
1914- “averaged Is. 4d. per lb.” The
1915- season was a pretty good one on the
North Coast of N. S. Wales. Yet the
cockies who got the good price of Is. 2d.
per lb. for their butter must be hopelessly
broke. And as within recent years they
have received 9d. and lOd. per lb. from the
factories, their condition must be indescrib-
able. Before a distress fund is started,
however, The Bulletin suggests, with a
hungry desire for enlightenment, that cer-
tain circumstances should be explained.
How is it that the many towns on the
North Coast, entirely depending upon the
Cow business, have gone ahead at almost
boom speed; that numerous cockies have
amassed wealth and retired, renting their
farms at more per acre per year than, in
many cases, they originally paid for the
land; that dairying land is selling at from
£3O to £4O per acre, with no sign of a
slump, and is leased at from £1 10s. to £2
per acre per annum; that cockies paying
such rents, as men in touch with this
industry know, are seeking renewals at even
higher figures, assured that it is the only
chance of keeping in possession? How is
all this thus if cow cockying is such a losing
game—if it costs Is. 4d. to produce what is
sold for Is. 2d.? The community is entitled
to know the truth. The cew-cockying
industry has some objectionable features,
but, all the s*ame, it is one of the most
important in the country. If it has fallen
into or is dizzily hovering about the edge
of the pit, it is a national necessity to haul
it back to safety. But before any hauling
is undertaken it is a fair thing that the
facts should be established. Otherwise any
rush to save an industry which has the habit
of placing record prices and rentals on any
soil lying about its back door, and also at its
front entrance, may be a shocking waste of
national effort.
Glass Houses.
The Italians were still sustaining the awful
shock of the Austro-German army, heavily
reinforced by drafts from the Russian
Front, when Sydney Telegraph spent a
leader in asking whether the descendants of
Julius Ctesar hadn’t been bribed with
German gold. The Rome Tribune might
reasonably reply with something like this:
THE POSITION IN AUSTRALIA.
Is German Gold Responsible?
It is time the hard-pressed Allies in Europe asked
some questions of Australia. Before Italy joined
forces with them, Australia promised to support
the Allies with its “last man and last shilling.”
This undertaking was given by Signor Fisher, who
subsequently became Prime Minister. At that time
the Minister for War was a member of the Universal
Service League. For two years no attempt was,
however, made to put universal service into practice
in order to obtain the promised “last man.” Then,
instead of passing a universal service law, an appeal
was made to the individual electors in circumstances
which rendered it practically impossible to obtain
an affirmative vote, the Censorship having been
employed to prevent the people knowing the extreme
seriousness of the military position in Europe, Africa
and Asia. Subsequently an Administration which
dubbed itself a Win-the-War Ministry was formed;
and this body pledged itself not to redeem the early
undertaking, given before Italy consented to join the
Allies, and agreed not to call up any citizen for
service. Meanwhile a Censorship was still vigor-
ously applied to such war and other news as might
create alarm; large numbers of German and other
enemy aliens were naturalised; labor strikes were
permitted to prevent the despatch of such few re-
inforcements as optional enlistment made available;
large numbers of German and other enemy aliens
were allowed the freedom of the country, and were
even given employment on the wharves where re-
inforcements and supplies for the Allies were loaded,
and anybody was permitted to purchase any quantity
of explosives such as might be used in the construc-
tion of mines and bombs for the destruction of ship-
ping. Knowing the freedom with which German
money has been employed against the Allies, the cir-
cumstances in this case are clearly such as to invite
the attention of Great Britain to the policy of
broken faith which has been pursued by her
dependency.
Having pondered over the case which might
be thus made out against Australia, the
Telegraph and many other newspapers
might perhaps be a little less free with their
imputations regarding the successful use of
German gold among the non-English speak-
ing Allies.
There are 254 returned discharged soldiers
on the list of the Vic. State War Council who
want work and cannot get it. Ine Council’s
secretary asserts that many of these men
have become temporarily unfitted for the
monotony of city life and indoor occupation.
They wiil not resume work with their former
employers, he says, and it is hard to find new
jobs for them. Well, it may be hard, but
we shall have to struggle to do it. It is our
own fault that many returned men are diffi-
cult to handle. Instead of insisting that
national service was a duty, we have pre-
served the voluntary system and been driven
to flattery and every species of cajolery to
get recruits. Incidentally, the politicians
for their own purposes have talked airily
of scores of millions. All foi: Australia,
the paper which the Win-the-War party
issued to Billjim in England and at the
Front prior to the last general election,
talked more of these millions than anything
else. Pearce and his colleagues have thus
made their job difficult; b.ut they have got
to face it, all the same. And the longer we
maintain the voluntary system, which has
largely boiled down to a system of bribery,
the more difficult will the facing be.
Sydney Ferries, the co. which controls
three-fourths of the passenger service on
the Beautiful Harbor, last week absorbed
the Balmain Ferry Co. ; and now the only
outsider, apart from the owners of the
Manly line, is the little co. which plies to
Watson’s Bay. Before the big co. goes any
farther the Government ought to have a
heart-to-heart talk with it and put it under
restraint. The Government has every moral
right to do this, because probably four-fifths
of the co.’s passengers are landed on to its
wharves by State railways and trams. For
15 years or more the co. has been claiming
that, though providing a public utility, it
was justified in paying large dividends
because of the risks it ran in the way of
competition, etc. In order to make the divi-
dend appear less colossal the co. has
repeatedly watered the stock; and, having
got from a Government Commissioner a
favorable report, it has lately bumped up its
fares until they are far in excess of those
collected by trams for services over equal
distances. With this to go on there is
nothing to prevent the co. repeating its old
performances in the way of stock-watering;
and there is nothing to stop it continuing
to charge the present rates when circum-
stances no longer in any way justify them.
Ifecently the Parliament passed a bill
designed to stop the gas cos. from doing any
more stock-watering and fixing a standard
dividend rate for old and new capital; and
the same principle ought to be applied to
harbor ferry services. It may be unfair to
pull any of the teeth the co. has got, but it
certainly ought not to be allowed to grow
any more.
♦
Peacock hits State enterprise heavily in his
scheme of Melbourne suburban transport.
Millions having been put into suburban rail-
ways, he stipulates in the Tramways Control
Bill which is dangled before the electors that
these lines shall not be operated so as to
injuriously affect the railways. On the same
principle, if the State had owned the bullock-
teams, Peacock would have stipulated that
the railways should not be operated so as
to injuriously affect Poley and Boxer. At
the bottom of the absurdity, which hangs a
heavy weight upon progress, is the abomin-
able practice of borrowing money for public
works without providing for a sinking fund,
on the dishonest plea that the works are
“permanent”—which really means that the
world has done its dash, and that no more
mechanical inventions will come to light.
From George Meudell’s address to the
electors of Grenville (Vic.) :
Why am I asking you to elect me? Because the
finances of Victoria are rushing down hill, and
because I can help to avert the crisis and smash.
Is a crisis likely? you ask. Yes, most positively.
Taxation has doubled in 10 years, and is now ss. 6d.
in the £, and more taxes are threatened. Reckless
borrowing during war has added £10,000,000 to our
[Victorian] public debt. Deficits amounting to
£1,467,000 have been made by the present Govern-
ment. Expenditure has been increased by £1,643,930
per annum within a short three years, not for war
but for waste. Useless Public Works and needless
railways which ought to wait for better times have
been built and do not pay their interest: 613 miles
of unpayable railways have been made in the last
six years at a cost of £10,000,000. In 1910 there
were 154,031 persons on the land farming, dairying
and grazing. In 1916 there were only 147,655, a
decrease of 6376. Surely the spending of all these
millions of loans and taxes ought to have added to
the people on the land, and not have had the effect
of driving 6376 fiom the country to the city. In
11 years the population of Melbourne grew by
178,514 and the country population by a paltry
2694. Melbourne holds half Victoria’s inhabitants
who live on the primary producers. This drift and
the money drift must be stopped if we wish to avoid
a terrible financial disaster. That is why I am stand-
ing, being an earnest, enthusiastic Australian who
dearly loves his native land and hates to see it being
hurled into the financial hell of insolvency, bad
times, want of employment, dismissals, poverty and
stoppage of enterprise.
“Bill Badd” : That the Victorian farmer is
waking up to the benefit of effective co-
operation is a distressing conclusion now
being forced on the big houses that handle his
produce ; hence I was waiting for something
to happen to the Producers’ Co-op. Co. It
has happened all right: the organisation has
had its fast-growing wings clipped in the
Wheat Marketing Bill just passed. The
co. started in the first pool some weeks after
the big agents had completed their arrange-
ments ; nevertheless it secured, mainly from
shareholders, 2,000.000 bags. Last year the
tally jumped to 4,000,000, and this year the
co. looked like gathering in most of the next
crop. A brake of some kind Was plainly
called for, and it takes the form of a restric-
tion on the quantity handled to 3,500,000
bags. In the course of the debate a mal-
adroit individual named Hogan upended
himself to remark that some members of the
Cabinet were, because of their business asso-
ciations, not properly qualified to decide
who was to handle the grain. He pointed
to the existence of various firms bearing
names that you’ll find among the list of
Ministers, and declared that they were all
in active business opposition to the farmers’
co. Hogan asserted that, through the
Victorian Producers, commission on stock
sales had been reduced from 5 per cent,
to 34 per cent., and this didn’t make some
of these firms whoop with joy. If Parlia-
ment was a more respectable institution
than it is, Hogan’s plain suggestion would
have caused something like an earthquake;
but, politics being what they are, nobody
took any serious notice of it. At the worst,
it was only a charge of fattening on the
farmer; and the farmer, as all the world
knows, has been sent into the world for the
benefit of the parasites that live on him.
The idea that it is the duty of even a,Minis-
ter for Agriculture to range himself up with
the farmers against the parasites is quite
absurd.


Centre 0 f
Life and r
The Premier Motel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
.New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
R. ths.
New Furnishings.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Koom. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals—a la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply Manager. WHAT AVE ADVERTISE AVE SI’PPEY.
&
ySr.
*
E
iU
MLL.
m
7m
m
<€&
Gddustralia"
Wfnier Garden
An Architect of Castles in Spain.
Having sold quantities of wheat, wool and
butter, and being now faced with a demand
for Conscription, W. M. Hughes at the
beginning of the week tried to sell the com-
munity a red herring. So far as this paper
knows, he took the fish back with him to
Melbourne. He called it “reorganisation
of industry.” It all led nowhere and
meant next to nothing. The pith and
marrow of the project was that Australian
primary and secondary industries should be
grouped into sections for purposes of con-
sultation about marketing and so on, all
under the direction of and associated with
trade committees and a Federal Department.
His main idea seemed to be that, by this
means and co-operation with Federal officials
appointed to over-sea billets, production
would be increased, new markets secured
and our export trade go ahead by leaps and
bounds. The whole thing turned on ex-
ports, and that is just where Hughes missed
the bull’s-eye. Germany is his trade-model.
But German trade did not grow out of an
imposing superstructure of industrial trusts
and banks. These were reared on the
foundation of established industries and a
production -which overtook the local demand,
and through them German manufactures
competed in foreign markets with the goods
of other countries. Australia has never
been faced with difficulty in finding markets
for wool or butter or metals or meat in the
Avay Germany was in relation to micro-
scopes, razors, ornamental socks and per-
fumery. What it has been troubled
Avith is the fat-headed politician -who by
borrowing millions abroad and erecting no
Protective tariff at home has brought into
the country a flood of goods from Germany
and elsewhere, thus making the Australian
market the preserve of foreign manufactu-
rers, instead of a place in which the products
of Australian factories would meet the local
requirements. Hughes says “it is clear that
to develop export trade something more than
mere production has to be considered.” This
is merely throwing words about. Production
is the foundation of export. Hughes could
appoint 175 trade commissioners and 746
committees to push the marketing of Aus-
tralian frying-pans in foreign places, yet this
would not achieve him a single implement
for shipment. Characteristically he makes
no effort to come down to any specific busi-
ness or possible industry, thus illustrating
how his queer ideas would operate in detail.
Instead he covers all industry with a blanket
of words. At the finish there is not a single
practical suggestion for protecting the home
market or increasing the production of even
one commodity. Apparently it is easier to
knock up a scheme of industrial sajvation
overnight than to produce plans and specifi-
cations for winning wars.
To realise the fact tnat air-raiding is still
in its infancy one has .to remember that
Louis Bleriot’s first flight across the Eng-
lish Channel happened only eight years ago.
Only 44 years before the outbreak of the
war! The engine on Bleriot’s machine
•was not a circumstance compared with the
engines that thousands of aviators use to-
day ; nevertheless his pioneer trip was a
strong suggestion of what the future had in
store for German militarism. Evidently
militarism, as the Huns had cultivated it,
was going to be rendered obsolete by the
possibilities of bomb-dropping from the
clouds. It thus became a question of Now
or Never with the Kaiser. His unrivalled
military equipment had to turn its superi-
ority to account before other Powers could
put tens of thousands of big bomb-carriers
into the air, with orders to drop destruction
on the foe’s factories, poison-gasometers, lines
of communication and civilian populace, if
necessary. There was threatened the crea-
tion of a new force that would laugh at
masses of “chosen shock troops” all fattened
up and eager for the attack—a force that
would turn IJindenburg tactics into pork-
and-beans and make goose-step drill as ridic-
ulous as it sounds; an airy organisation in-
tended by Providence to deal martial swank
a death blow and put fat generals out of
business. Forty years of preparation were
to be reduced to the merest waste of time
if the Kaiser didn’t go to war on earth before
the sky became the all-important battle area
and Fronts were established overhead. So
the Kaiser, hoping that Zeppelin’s gas-bags
would help to shorten the campaign, cried
“HaA’oc!” and let slip the hogs of war.
Bleriot had bustled him.
Some things m; be taken as axiomatic.
One of them is that, no matter how and
when the war ends, the world will have a
staggering bill to foot. Another is that the
only thing that can do the footing is produc-
tion. Yet another is that the country
which produces most in the shortest time
is the one that is soonest going to throw
off its share of the debt-burden. All these
truisms apply to Australia equally with the
rest. In preparation for the big job of debt-
shifting, the Commonwealth Government has
appointed a Committee of Scientific Re-
search ; but, doing its best, that body can
handle only a fraction of the big job. It
is good to see, then, that at least one of the
States realises the importance of the sub-
ject. The other day the N. S. Wales
Pumpkin Department advertised for an
assistant experimentalist. And, presumably
to prove its whole-souled enthusiasm for
Science in Industry, the Department offered
him £75 a year and quarters! It is wicked
to thus tempt young men to a life of easy
self-indulgence.
John Verran has had his third annual
shot at getting the S. Aus. Parliament to
disfranchise “Germans.” He got a majority,
but not enough majority to alter the State’s
Constitution. Feeling waxed very bitter
in the Assembly, as those who support
Verran are accused of practical unfairness
to old friends and good Australian citizens,
and those who oppose are accused of cadging
for the German vote in the Murray and
other districts where it is strong. The chief
trouble consists in deciding what is a Ger-
man. Verran hit too wide, and wanted to
generally penalise descendants of the origi-
nal German stock which S. Aus. found so
valuable about 70 years ago. A notable case
—which was freely mentioned in the debate
—is that of the sheriff Schomburgk, son
of the great botanist of the last century, and
himself Australian-born, with no interests
outside, and with a lot of near relatives in
the trenches. (One nephew, son of Judge
Herbert, was reported killed just as the
debate came on.) Premier Peake and many
others held that actual “Germans” should
be interned, and that to punish good Aus-
tralians in panic is unfair. Old John
Blacket, the parson-historian, with a lot of
sons in khaki and one killed, pluckily wrote
to the papers in support of this view. But
most letter-writers take the other line, and
there are many threats of remembering the
division-list at the next elections.
These elderly Judges waste a lot of time
making unnecessary remarks to convicted
persons. A young man of 26 who had been
found guilty on three separate charges of
horse-stealing was admonished by Judge
Docker, of N. S. Wales. His Honor sadly
pointed out that prisoner was liable to 10
years' gaol on each charge, “and it would
be a. terrible thing if you were sentenced to
30 or 40 years’ gaol.” It would indeed!—-a
terrible thing for the Judge who did it-
What Avould Docker have said if the young
man had borrowed 10 horses —or 20 Y
Should Nationalist Tommy Ryqn. ex-
railway porter and land agent, win Willie
Watt’s old Essendon seat at the Vic. elec-
tions, he will be in the unique position of
being a member of two State Parliaments,
Tommy has permanently settled in Victoria,
but, for party reasons, has not resigned his
S._ Aus. seat, and recently made a flying
trip to Adelaide to. occupy it for an hour
or so in order that it would not be declared
vacant. His Parliamentary salary is being
paid to patriotic funds. The volatile little
man will be missed by S. Australians. A
trifle more ballast and he would have gone
far. His bitterest disappointment was when
he was excluded from the Vaughan Ministry.
He had set his heart on the Education port-
folio, and looked upon it as his right after
his really fine work as Chairman of the
Education Commission.
Some heartburnings have been caused by
the decision of Agar Wynne, ex-M.H.R. for
Balaclava—the man who, when P.M.G.,
changed the postage-stamp design and put a
new letter-pillar at the corner of Smith
and Brown streets —to accept the about-to-
be vacant St. Kilda seat in the Vic. Leg.
Assembly. The friends of Henry Barnet,
who lately completed a term in the muni-
cipal rabbit-wraps, had the billet all cut and
dried for him, and everything was over bar
the shouting when Wynne heard the call of
Duty. Barnet is a Hebrew and would have
had a strong vote in St. Kilda; but as
A\ ynne will have the heartfelt sup-
port of the Moneybags family and its numer-
ous connections, Barnet left John McFar-
land. a local “Nationalist,” and Laborite
McGowen to struggle for the crumbs that
fall from the rich man’s table.
That the old stagers need rooting out of
Victoria’s Assembly is shown by the case of
Keast, AA’ho has sat for Dandenong about a
score of years and whose chief accomplish-
ment was to clear himself of an imputation
of adulterating chaff with salt. Keast sits
behind Economist Bowser, and this is how
his ideas of economy panned out when
addressing the fruit-growers of Bayswater:
Pool stores for Bayswater, a canning fac-
tory for Bayswater, more monev to be spent
on developmental roads, a better train ser-
vice for Bayswater. better postal facilities
tor Bayswater, and advances from the
Treasury to the orchardists who people
Bayswater. This isn’t bribery. You can
always free yourself from that charge bv
showing that it was public money you pro-
posed to scatter.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion •••• “L’Aiglon”
Her Majesty’s “Mr. Manhattan
Palace “The Waybacks”
The Playhouse “Quinneys’ ”
Wirths’ Hippodrome ... “The Chance of a Lifetime’
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “You’re in Love”
Royal “Mary Goes First”
King’s “Hamlet”
Princess’s “Robbery Under Arms”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Dk Luxe k Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
,\iei.l l a Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Wirths’ Hippodrome AVirths’ Circus
.—^ —
At Sydney Criterion on Saturday Kathlene
Macdonell reached the third stage of her
Australian career with a brilliant imperso-
nation of L'Aiglon, the hero of Rostand's
fervid, rhetorical, poetic, historical drama of
French patriotism. In this young Canadian
actress is a stage personality of great pro-
mise, but young enough to retain crudities,
slowly enlarging her scope, and deliberately
attacking diverse problems in order to emerge
from the easy-going rut of mediocrity. For
the character of Napoleon’s son she has the
qualities’of a boyish figure, vivacity, elan,
and a voice equal to the tirades of scorn, the
invocations to glory, the fire of patriotism
and the suggestion of pathos in Rostand’s
subtle conception of the doomed weakling.
She 'is rightly hysterical almost to unintelli-
gibility as the child seeks to give utterance
to his passionate thoughts of his father and
his France; but in the quieter scenes every
Avord is measured and sharpened. It is a
triumph of virtuosity—with here and there
discords as yet unresolved: a sincere and
“L’Aiglon,” at Syd-
ney Criterion.
Kenneth Brampton
as Count Prokesch.
serious attempt at a
most difficult part.
Sharing honors with
the star is E. W.
Morrison, the pro-
ducer, for in the
action of the piece
and the procession of
the host of characters
there is no hiatus.
Charles Waldron
makes of the crafty
and cruel Metternich
a gentlemanly inqui-
sitor. Roy Redgrave
revels in the “fat”
part of Flambeau;
both he and Charles
Waldron fulfil nearly
all the demands made
of them by the exact-
ing dramatist. A clever
bit of minor charac-
terisation falls to
Eardley Turner, but
Gertrude Boswell’s pic-
ture of Marie Louise
lacks the recklessness
that the dramatist,
following history, im-
plied. The play, per-
haps, is too foreign to
be as popular a suc-
cess as it is an artistic
one—and the present
war has rendered us not very sympathetic
to Rostand’s conception of glory.
“Mr. Manhattan,” though he fled from
Sydney Criterion to Her Majesty’s, is still
being pursued by the tango-ing taxi-driver
who wants his money.
The British Admiralty reports that the
new method adopted for the trapping of
German submarines, in which green gauze,
spot-lights, stage-carpentry and Fredetc.
Watts are employed, is accounting for the
destruction of one U-boat per night at the
Sydney Opera House.
Since The Bulletin last saw “The Way-
backs ” staged by Philip Lytton at the
Palace, practically all Australia has had a
good healthy laugh at it; and, judging by
the audience on Saturday, Sydney was await-
ing another chance to risk a waistcoat-
button. The rough-cut fun of “On Our
Selection” and “The Waybacks” is served
out with rolled-up sleeves; you swallow it
whole and choke with laughter. The “in-
tellectuals,” of course, scorn these Aus-
tralian plays, and perhaps they are right.
Occasionally they are. But if they would
shelter behind the disguise of rainbow
whiskers and topboots, and spend an evening
with either “Dad” Bailey or “Dad” Stewart,
they’d feel better. “The Waybacks” will
continue to make money at the Pitt-street
stand for two weeks more.
* * * #
Some plays can’t be killed with an axe,
and “The Christian” is one of them. John
Storms along and Glory Quailes not,
though all, or rather Hall, is piffle and
deserving of the batch of eggs laid by the
first lien in Noah s stable. Bilanderson OTn
duced the piece on Saturday at the Hinn 0
drome (Sydney), and the co. did as well
could be expected. George Cross, i n tbl
lead, stood out by himself, the contrast hein!
more marked because of the passionless work
of Horn a h orbes as the lady who wanted m
Another change of bill on Saturday nieht~i
“The Chance of a Lifetime,” a sporting nlov
to set off Cup week. s piay
Harry Roxbury’s revue “The Prince of
Monte Carlo,” was No. 3 turn at Svdnev
Tivoli last week-end. Harry Roxbuiv
comedian, pulls Harry Roxbury, author
through; but the three-spasm frivolitv
doesn't work up any pace until the duel
scene, in which the star’s fooling is excellent
There are brief bursts of music and song and
the mounting is good. Peggy Peate, Daisy
and Sydney Yates, Billy Rego and Charles
Albert are all implicated. “The Beauty
Shop,” with its interesting transformation
of the cheap and dowdy wife from Oklahoma
into an expensive bird of fashion, ends
abruptly like an instalment of a daily-paper
serial and leaves the audience guessing as to
the effect on the straying Oklahoma senator
The high-diving announcement in Niemaii
and Kennedy's tramp turn is one of the best
laughs in the show, and George Welch as tlm
photographer’s patient victim is another.
Race week at Sydney Lyceum, with Enid
Bennett as a daslung jockey who wins the
race for love and wealth in “They’re Off!”
Another feature is “Transgression,” in which
society and good frocking are toned up with
the hot blood of youth, a little affair with
shooting-irons and the foiling of political
intrigue. The Crystal Palace screen
vibrates with Muriel Starr’s old thriller,
“Bought and Paid For.” Alice Brady is
the purchased lady and Montagu Love is
the gent, who offers spot cash. Beautiful
Pauline Frederick handles a mop and pail
with great charm in the Paramount’s “Love
that Lives” at the Haymarket. The semi-
allegorical “Destiny, or the Soul of a
A oman, ” at Hoyt’s, thrillingly conveys the
triumph of the spiritual over the corporal
without stressing the religious note. At
the same house Catherine Calvert has a ro-
mantic time as flapper Alice Rowland, the
heiress orphan who finds her soul-mate in
Henry Whitmore, a former sweetheart of
mal’s.
* * * *
Some musical shows are doomed to be
enjoyed and then casually dismissed from
memory. “You’re in Love,” which came to
Melbourne Majesty’s for Derby night, is just
one of them. The story radiates from a cen-
tral character, conscientiously played by
Connie Ediss in .her chronic tone of peevish
bleatitude—the character of a thrice-married
lady who professes to detest tl > animal Man,
and expresses her animosity to the opposite
sex by drawing up a contract that places
insuperable difficulties in the way of her
niece’s honeymoon. An incidental boat-
swain (Field Fisher) of surpassing
and a wowser in unholy orders (Frith), who
appears to have been Connie’s last victim at
the altar, are minor characters. The more
musical members of the co. are merely per-
sons who have no force of character at all.
while the chorus consists of a number of
young people, mostly girls, who claim no con-
nection with the narrative and happen en-
tirely on their own. Eight of the girls are
identical in purpose with the pink-and-gold
octette in “So Long, Letty,” their athletic
gambols being an important factor in the
brightness of the proceedings. In fact, the
dancing all round is all that is really excel-
lent in “You’re in Love.” Madge Elliott
is a charming toe soloist, and Tom Preston,
Jack Hooker and litle Rita Nugent-form a
quaint triumvirate of steppers on the quarter-
deck of the s.s. Lligh Hope.
The best of the flowing music, which is
equally plentiful and undistinctive, falls to
Msude Fane and Tal-
leur Andrews. Singly
and together supported
by the chorus as a
rule, they sing of love,
loveland and dreams
in sugary strains that
strive hard to catch
“ L’Aiglon ,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Katlilene Macdonell
as the Eaglet.
the public by the ear, but never quite ge
there. Finally the mast of the High Hope
is rent in twain and half of it is let down
by a chain to serve the same purpose as a


YC
OOORD & SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
A
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., SydneyJ
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
C'Af'lE'T'V I HITTER Head Office: Corner Pitt
OUuILII LIMII LI/. & King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G - HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Study at Home and then See the World at No Cost
Become a Wireless Operator in Five Months.
Write or Interview
the Superintendent,
Marconi School of Wireless, Dept. G, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
LIGHT COTTON RESEMBLING TWEED.
A “No-Veste” Unlined Summer Suit made of a strong Cotton
patterned in a pinhead Black and White Check resembling
Tweed. A strong washing fab rie excellent for either city or
country wear. Coat has 3 butt ons, 3 outside patch pockets,
plain back with seam. Trousers —side and hip pockets, belt
loops and hip straps.
Ready to Wear 27/6.
We pay postage. Please state height, chest, waist and inside
leg measurements.
New Summer Catalogue now ready.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men's Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
swing, whereon Maud Fane passes over the
front stalls while warbling. Sometimes her
feet are so near to the populace that men
grab at her pink slippers. Eventually
somebody secures a slipper, and the lady
kicks the other one from her coquettish
tootsie. Thus are two souls made happy
with advertising souvenirs of the show. Pre-
sumably they are 2s. lljd. slippers which the
Williamson firm buys by the gross and
charges to advt. exes. The writer foresees a
good time coming when leading ladies will
have to shed silk stockings under similar
“THE STROLLERS.” AT MELBOURNE
AUDITORIUM.
Sydney James as a
night-watchman.
G. W. Desmond as
a sea-dog.
circs., and in some distant age, maybe, the
idea will be worked upward through the lin-
gerie kingdom until it gets to a camisole.
In the words of a French general on a his-
torical occasion—“lt is significant, but it is
not Art.” Maud Fane has pretty golden
hair and the same sort of notes in her voice,
but wants pungency. Talleur Andrews
is straightforward and emphatic as usual;
William Greene succeeds in seeming almost
manly as an utterly unmanly bridegroom;
Cecil Bradley plays a nice sort of unim-
portant wife in a tuneful manner; and
Robert Greig is an American judge, in fair
round figure with good capon lined. Care-
ful lighting, smart dressing and a few
touches of novelty in the evolutions of the
chorus help to bring “You’re in Love” under
the broad definition of Bright but not
uazzling.
* * * *
At Melbourne Royal the doings of Marie
Tempest as Annabelle the Hermit’s Bride
will be done for the last time on Friday
night. On Saturday, the 10th, Miss Tem-
pest and Co. will appear in “Mary Goes
First,” which comedy by H. A. Jones is for
a few nights only.
On Friday the long innings of Gran’dad
Rudd at Melbourne King’s will come to a
conclusion. The stage where Gran’dad has
been wont to raise the rent on Dave will be
dignified on Saturday by lan Maclaren’s
production of “Hamlet.” Memories of recent
Shakspeare plays at the King’s justify the
expectation of an expensive revival of the
Melancholy Dane, with enthusiastic gather-
ings of public to hear the young man talk.
And Hamlet does talk well —much better
than a Peacock Government candidate at an
election meeting.
The mild violence of “Robbery Under
Arms” will hardly upset a populace schooled
to shock by the incidents of the last three
years. Wherefore a modest house mostly
yawned over the resurrection of Starlight
at Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday. It is
a new Starlight (Guy Hastings) who tries
to efface the local police by the drumfire of
half a dozen revolvers. Also it is the most
honeyed ruffian that Melbourne has yet seen
—one who always remembers that his
manners were manicured at Eton or
Harrow, and who talks poetic truisms
about maidens and moonlight as if
he were accompanied by a flute obli-
gato. The Marstons seem rather abashed by
this Byronic bushman, and not even Aileen,
who loves him madly, ventures to ignore the
difference in their stations. Nellie Bramley
plays Aileen in a simple fashion without
calling on her natural comeliness to take an
active part. As for her male relatives, they
vary in behavior from the ornate chivalry
of Dick (Clive Farnhain) to the rugged
malevolence of Ben (Bert Frawley), but they
are alike in their hatred of policeman Gor-
ing (Fred Francis), who represents Fright-
fulness in a crude form. Another ruthless
personality is bushranger Moran (Frank
Cullenane), who roars his wild creed through
a mat of black whiskers. The cast includes
various neddies and a kookaburra, and some
Australian atmosphei’e has been brushed into
the scenery by J. J. Ricketts and Reginald
Robins. Incidentally the management has
given the interior of the theatre a new
buff uniform with gold facings and has put
the d.c. and stalls seats into durable leather
overcoats. And even then the Fullers found
enough in the cashbox for a neiv red curtain.
Ada Reeve and her co. are back at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, but any further comments on
the reappearance of the versatile little woman
are postponed, owing to the delay of the
steamer that bore her from Maoriland,
whether by Labor strikes or enemy activi-
ties is not stated. The difference just now r
between Labor stoppages and Ilun activities
is hardly worth considering, anyhow.
These are the last two nights of the admir-
able Strollers at Melbourne Auditorium.
Any intelligent person who has never heard
the Strollers or laughed at Billy can be
recommended to remedy the deficiency ere it
be too late. A Scotney-White concert hap-
pens on Saturday at the Auditorium, and
two last farewells are billed for next week.
Edward Cahill, the young pianist from
Queensland, is due at the same building on
Wednesday, 14th.
It is remarked of Wirths’ Circus, at
present in Melbourne, that the combination
of arena and stage enables the show to be
speeded-up as it never was in earlier days.
Things are quicker and slicker than of old,
which is a matter for much calm rejoicing
when the programme lasts 24 hours sans
intermission. Bailey 9 s Poses Plastiques,
with whitened bosses and dawgs in the
poses; also the acrobatic Jap Family and
the Drunk on the wobbling wire—these are
still sharing the honors of the stage with
the. performing lions and the humorous bear,
while human feats in the ring continue to be
less appalling than the elephants and more
exciting than the clowns. But any adult
criticism of the painted revellers who revel
so ingenuously is beside the mark. Re-
garded as diversions for the young the
clowns are a success. The writer would
willingly take back 50 years of life in order
to shriek at ’em.
At Hoyt’s, in Melbourne, Marie Corelli’s
gaudy hero of “Temporal Power” is having a
short reign, and is putting into a few ex-
pressive gestures all the anguish that Marie
took reams to describe. The film is the work
of the Tiber firm, which never spares the
melodrama, especially in the scene where the
monarch joins “The Idealists” audi writes
the signature of membership in blud. “The
End of the Tour,” with Lionel Barrymore in
charge of the plot, is a useful antidote to the
foregoing tumult. The story is rather brain-
less, but Lionel gives it deft turns with his
priceless fatuity.
“An Even Break,” at Melbourne Majestic,
can be regarded as a valuable lesson in the
preparation of knuts. The film shows how
the N’Yark benedict eats his way through
the small hours with the wife home in bed
and All the World on his knees. Olive
Thomas, a Yankee cabaret artist who tries
to dress like a flower that is mostly stalk, is
one of the alluring Worlds in the midnight
effusion. Florence La Badie, a graceful
French actress, is the heroine of the Majes-
tic’s second feature, a six-act version of Wil-
kie Collins’s “Woman in White.” Our
bachelor-tax is made more bearable by the
Keystone comedy which finishes the bill. The
excitement is entitled “Dangers of a Bride.”
Adelaide shows are quiet. Maude Fan-
ning and her coon co. have come in at the
Majestic, where Tom Haverley’s Murphy
sketches are different each week, though
there’s a strong family resemblance running
through the lot. The Romas of both sexes
do some big weight-lifting feats at this house.
The Anderson co. shows a strong Klondyke-
and-London drama at the Tivoli, “The Mock-
ery of Marriage.” At the Royal, where “V.
G. Eddie” is shortly to come in, the fine old
“Scarlet Letter” is written on the film; and
John Dempster’s fine women’s choir has given
one of its first-grade concerts at the Town
Hall.
“E.T.”: The Player Queen in lan
Maclaren’s “Hamlet” will not be Audrey
Anderson’s first part on the professional
stage. The clever Gregan McMahon ama-
teur started as a pro. by playing the maid-
servant in “Penelope” when Marie Tempest
put up Maugham’s comedy at the Melbourne
Royal. Succeeding that piece the youngster
had also a part in the Cockney “London
Pride.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
Geelong, Ballarat, Billy’s Lookout and
other Australasian villages to which Cyril
Maude and his hard-working press-agent
never penetrated will later on have a chance
of viewing “Grumpy.” Bert Bailey has
secured the Australasian rights of the play
and hopes next year to take it on tour.
Bailey himself will represent the old gentle-
man w r ith the remarkable repertoire of
noises.
“De Oriel”: “Country Ped.,” who in a
recent issue suggested the itinerant picture-
show for returned Billjims, surely wants to
break them almost as rapidly as dilatory
horses could do it. I admire the bargain
prices in his inventory—two good horses
and waggon, motor and dynamo, films and
etceteras, all for £lOO. I hate to discourage
him, but the lowest for the engine and
dynamo is £llO (list price), and 8000 ft. of
films at Is. (worn-outs) will cost £32; wag-
gon and horses, £5O; projector, £5O to £BO.
As to showing in the schools, the Department
objects to that because biographs are not
fireproof. I also know the man who blos-
somed from horse-van to motor-van, but he
won the latter in a Red Cross raffle. He
doesn’t play schools, and his outfit is worth
nearer £lOOO than £lOO. The Victorian Re-
patriation Committee put some returned sol-
diers on the roads, and they lost their com-
plete plant and money in two strenuous
weeks.
“Ancient Prompter”: In answer to my
query as to how many local plays the lead-
ing Australian theatrical firms have been
guilty of producing, the ingenuous “Harri-
son O.” triumphantly mentions two panto-
mimes, an opera and a dramatisation of an
opera by the Williamsons, while the record
of the Taits and Fullers, it appears, is one
solitary pantomime between them! Yet
“II.O.” suggested in a breezy, light-comedy
manner that any Australian playwright,
good, bad or indifferent, could easily get a
hearing' Again I asked him what Reper-
tory theatre in this country produces origi-
nal plays nowadays? His l'eply is that
Gregan McMahon used to! I really think
somebody ought to beg pardon for wasting
my time.
“Stargazer”; Again I congratulate the
film censors. A picture play called “The
Overcoat” is now at large in our sxxburbs.
It is really all about a street-walker, with
a profitable run in some out-back Yankee
town, who takes up with a dishonest young
feller of good instincts but rotten judgment,
and makes so noble a working-man of him
that he eventually spurns his father's mil-
lions and goes honorably and joyously out
to the mixing of mortal’. This preference
for the society of soiled doves over that of
American millionaires may show an exceed-
ing uplift, but that is not the point. The
dame in question is a sti-eet-walker who
“ROBBERY UNDER ARMS,” AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS'S.
Maginness (J. S.
Stevenson) of the
police.
Dan Moran, hush-
ranger (Frank Cul-
lenane).
walks the streets for choice and because she
likes fine food and expensive clothes. She
talks of “going out to-day,” and explains
as a special virtue that she never has men
in the rooms to which she has taken the
young feller above mentioned, and is made
to appear, on the whole, a commendable and
right-thinking young person in whom any
nice girl might find a model. The censor-
ship has seen to it that there is not a single
bare back or one discoverable female calf
in the wdiole five reels of it; and as long
as the outside of the platter is clean, what
does the inside matter?
“Hugh” : On a recent Saturday evening lan
Maclaren became the possessor of a vast quan-
tity of ship’s cable with a huge lump of dog-
flesh hanging on to the extreme end of it. On
Sunday morning the actor and the dog went
for their first spin, but Maclaren had barely
covered two yards when the animal slipped
its collar and got loose. Two pretty
daughters of a U diversity professor standing
at the corner of Toorak-road saw the dog
approaching and took refuge behind a
friendly gate. Maclaren recaptured his pet
and apologised to the girls, who, after all,
were more interested than frightened. They
wanted to know everything. Archie Strong,
they said, knew the doctor who had for-
merly owned the dog, and he had told them
it was a Great Dane. Could Mr. Maclaren
tell them if that were really so? “Oh,
yes,” replied the actor; “it’s a Great Dane
all right.” . “Then, of course, you call him
Hamlet?” lan blushed, stammered, hesi-
tated. “Um....” said he—“l7m.... I’ve
done the best I could. I call her Ophelia!”
“B. J.”: When Maggie Knight’s days as an
infant phenomenon were over, she came
here under Williamson and scored in the
ingenue part in Burnand’s “Turn of the
Tide.” Maggie succeeded Annie Mayor in
both the Wybert Reeve and Williamson cos.
Dora in Sardou’s “Diplomacy” was pro-
bably the most notable of her earlier Aus-
tralian successes ; this was with Reeve at the
old Melbourne Bijou in the early ’eighties.
But Reeve failed to boom, and Maggie passed
to 'Williamson, Garner and Musgrove to sup-
port Genevieve Ward in “Forget-Me-Not.”
Aftqr a season of melodrama she went to
London for a holiday, and while there
accepted an engagement at the Adelphi. On
her return she played Ophelia and Desde-
mona, with Rignold and Miln, in 1889. That
carries us up to her career with Bland Holt,
Meynell and Gunn and Williamson, all too
recent to need revival.
“Glen H.”: Australia is to have yet
another Hamlet —lan Maclaren, who opens
shortly under the Bailey-Grant management.
How many melancholy Danes have there
been in this country? We have had at least
four lady Hamlets —Louise Pomeroy, the two
Roses (Edouin and Evans) and Louisa
Cleveland. The he-Danes include Adams,
Anderson, Arabin, Bandmann, Barrett, Bat-
ten, Bentley, Booth, Brooke, Byers,
Buchanan, Creswick, Dampier, Defries, Dew-
hurst, Duggan, Fairclough, Griffiths (who
opened in the part in Sydney in 1842 and
was nearly driven off the stage, but won
popularity later with a performance of
“Coriolanus”), Heir, Holt, Hoskins, Howe,
Ireland, Irving, Kean, King, Maddocks,
Miln, Montgomery, Nesbitt (while acting in
“William Tell” at Geelong lie was carried
off the stage and died in the hospital; there
is a monument over his grave in the Gee-
long Cemetery, placed there by G. V.
Brooke), Shearcroft, Stark, Sullivan, Tal-
bot, Waller. Warner and Wilkie. Are there
any others?
“Melb” : I think it’s a record. Three of
our four dramatic theatres are giving Aus-
tralian plays: King’s, “Gran’dad Rudd”;
Princess’s, “Robbery Under Arms”;
Palace, “His Natural Life.” All of them
equal to the best imported of their class,
unless you will insist on introducing “The
Silver King.” In this connection we owe
one man much. “His Natural Life” might
not have become so well grounded but for
Alfred Dampier’s persistence, and as for
“Robbery Under Arms” —well, you can’t
think of Starlight without remembering the
same good pioneer.
When Wirths’ kings of beasts went out
to capture Queenie, the lioness who had left
the circus in consequence of some slight
difference of opinion with the proprietors,
they found her in Snowden Gardens, and
nearby- a youth of 20 was making frenzied
attempts to climb a shrub 4ft. high. Several
years ago the Fitzgerald Bros, were showing
down on the Yarra bank, and during
rehearsal one afternoon a large tiger got
away and wandered abroad. The hunters,
after half an hour’s search, found the brute
coiled up under a sapling, with a woeful-
looking Weary Willie in charge. Willie
was not actually holding the tiger by the
tail, but he was standing near, “seeing that
the beggar did not get away.” The trainer
was very fierce about it. “Suppose the damn
tiger had eaten you?”' he said. “Wouldn’t
care a hang if he did !” replied Willie. This
annoyed the trainer. “That’s all very well.”
he yelled, “but you don't imagine you’d do
a tiger any good, do you?”
(Continued on page 26.)
“Stripes”: The bomb which rattled the
Defence Department’s dug-out re Billjim’s
claim upon the soft area-officer’s job (B.
12/7/T7) was not fired in vain. Other-
wise well-endowed Government officials have
been relieved of the bui'den which afflicted
them; and in the case quoted in the Syd-
ney metropolitan district a lieutenant who
was smashed up at Gallipoli now pockets
the money and gives value in work. An
aspect that compulsory trainees are not
slow to be cheerful about in the new order
of things is the absence of that frill and snob-
bishness which have irritated Young Aus-
tralia for a long while; and unless early
impressions are misleading, compulsory
training will be much more popular than it
has been.


UL
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of purity of a freshly-blowm rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I wull absolutely prove to you before
your own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dapt. 52, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, a n(l *
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A small S. Aus. township comes into the
limelight in connection with the East-West
railway—Eurelia, where the train pujls up
for dinner on the gauge-broken journey from
Adelaide to Port Augusta, and for breakfast
when the train reverses. Hitherto it has
been known solely by the local joke on the
varied ways of pronouncing its name.
According to the story, a stranger happen-
ing into the township said “This is Urell.ver,
isn't it?” and was met with cries of “You’re
a liar” and “You really are.” Custom now
makes it rhyme with Amelia.
“N.K.”: I agree with “Globe”
(B. 18/10/’l7) that the wireless
station at Perth is badly placed.
My experience is that ships able to
“reach” Perth are also able to work
with Geraldton. But. as “Globe”
states, ships south of the Leeuwin
are “dead to the world.” Of course,
these remarks apply mainly to day-
light conditions, though on account
of “screening” it is difficult to work
Perth even at night. A small
station about Albany would have
closed the Leeuwin gap, and given
much better service than the costly
affair at Perth. Esperance station
could then have been erected 100
miles or so further east. Similarly,
on the other side of the Bight.
Adelaide and Mt. Gambier stations
(205 miles apart) are needlessly
close together, with the result that
they cover practically the same
ground. Ships between Melbourne
and Adelaide invariably hold one
station till they pick up the other.
There is then an interval of 900
miles to Esperance. Right across
the Bight ships are out of call.
With the superfluous Mt. Gambier
station somewhere about the head
of the Bight, ships between Mel-
bourne and Fremantle would have
had daylight communication all the
way. Erecting wireless stations at
capital cities instead of in the most
effective positions has been a foolish
proceeding—as foolish as if the
Otway light had been built at (say)
Warrnambool.
“Brigade Padre”: “Staff-Sergeant” (B.
24/5/’l7) has “no knowledge of any Aus-
tralians having had to undergo F.P. No. 1
during this war.” Then his knowledge of
France must be limited, as this -“sunny”
land is dotted with F.P. stations where the
No. 1 article is dealt out to Australians as
well as others. C-O’s (not O.C’s) are noti-
fied from time to time of vacancies therein.
It is even laid down in the Standing Orders
of certain Camp Commandants that first-
class punishment must be awarded in speci-
fied cases. I have seen an Australian tied
up to a rough-and ready crucifix made for
the purpose right in the centre of the suf-
ferer’s own battalion. The lads pulled it
down the first night, but after hearing the
crime-sheet of the chap concerned, re-erected
it before morning. Pearce is supposed to
have forbidden F.P. No. 1, but what can he
do in face of the law? Its indiscriminate
infliction is unknown and would be criminal.
But its total abolition is another question.
Many humane officers deem it useful and
necessary, and say that even The Bulletin
would admit this if the “heads” knew the
types who get it. They don’t like it, but
reluctantly confess that it is the only way to
deal with the “out-and-outer” found even
among Australians, who are not all angels.
It turns out that George V. didn’t look be-
fore he was pushed when it was hurriedly
decided to eradicate the German taint from
his family name by substituting “Windsor.”
Inquisitive philologists assert that “Wirid-
Q.E.D.
BIGGS: “ Charming woman your wife is!
Think there is anything in the theory
that opposites make the happiest
marriages?"
sor” is derived from the Saxon “wildelesora
eles,” the genitive of two ancient Gerhog
proper names, and lingual moles are now
busy digging amongst the records to ascer-
tain whether the tale is true or not. If it
is the two Georges of England will have to
hunt up another name. What about George
Atkins I.? Incidentally, there is trouble over
the Prince of Wales’s German “Ich Dien.”
A Welshman has found that the motto is all
wrong. Originally Welsh for “Your man,”
it was corrupted into the German for “I
serve.” The yarn is probably true. Until
the cannons actually boomed, nothing home-
grown was.quite as good as anything foreign.
w * * *
The old convict
hulk Success, which
was one of a fleet of
prison ships in Hob-
son’s Bay in the ’fif-
ties, and which housed
many of those who
took part in the mur-
der of John Price in
March, 1857, is again
coming into wor k.
She has been a
“show” ship for many
years, and lately has
been on exhibition in
the U.S.A. Now she
is to be rigged out and
put into the lumber
trade; and even it
that business isn’t too
reputable, s h e’l 1 at
last escape the lurid
lies that have been
the greater part of her
stock-in-trade. She is
solidly built of teak,
and not nearly 100
years old, though the
showmen have put her
back to the convict,
days of Bot’ny Bay.
“Billy T.” : My friend Wall is a congenital
humorist. He is also a little mad in other
ways, and goes for a sea bath every morn-
ing. Cold or freezing it’s all the same to
Wall—he never misses his dip. But one
piquant Melbourne morning last month,
while wallowing in the brine at St. Ivilda,
the chill got him, and cramp supervened.
Feeling his last hour had come, he made
sounds like a drowning man, and at length
awakened some little interest in another
dippy dipper who was on the end of a
spring-board. Eventually the crank above
was impelled to make inquiries. “What do
you want?” lie asked calmly. Wall went
under 1 . “What do you want?” the man
repeated when Wall came up. It was too
much for Wall; his crowning passion
asserted itself. “ V cu-cu-cup of wa-water,
if you please,” said he.
“C. 8.” : Playing at policeman has become
a popular pastime with a number of middle-
aged Melbourne citizens. Following a riot
a few weeks ago in which considerable dam
age was done to plateglass windows, Gaud
Mayor Hennessy swore in 400 special con-
stables. These burghers, recruited largely from
three or four city Clubs, were never called
on to do anything more desperate than “re-
port for duty” in batches on a certain night
weekly. “Reporting for duty” mostly con-
sisted of calling at the
Town Hall and then
adjourning to the Club
for poker, billiards
and other loyal and
patriotic purposes. It
was understood that
if a mob tried to
sto r m Parliament
House or abduct
David Valentine Ileu-
nessy, the specials, n 0
matter how fine their
hands or how bloated
the kitty, would rush
out and do something
heroic. The Police De-
partment put up with
the jest for a few
weeks, during which
nobody even so far
forgot himself as to say
“Boo!” outside the
Argus office, and then
sent a letter to the
Gaud Mayor thanking
the specials for their
“services” and inti-
mating that their in-
valuable assistance
was no longer re-
quired. But the ama-
teur John Hops had
tasted the delights of
freedom from domestic supervision and were
unwilling to sacrifice the finest excuse for
leaving home, sweet home, that had ever
come their way; so they met and solemnly
decided not to adopt the official suggestion
that they should disband, but to continue
to serve king and queen (not to mention
Jack and the ace) until the termination of
the war.
A Melbourne suburban candidate tells of
kindly intervention by a total stranger. The
cand date, a resolute Liberal, with a bitter
repugnance against Labor, had struck a
most unsuitable locality abounding in gas
workers of the most unrelenting kind. It
was a fairly large meeting, but every time
the poor candidate opened his mouth some-
IN THE INTERESTS OF SPORT.
“Aw, go on, lend us your kitten a minute.
Tiger's tired o’ chasin' stones."
body put his foot in it. Gasping and in
great distress, but determined to stick it, the
candidate went on, till suddenly the gentle
stranger appeared at his elbow. “Here.’ lie
whispered sympathetically, “you get down
and take a spell. I think I can do some-
thing with this crowd.” The candidate,
believing he was in the hands of a faithful,
if unknown, friend, backed down, and when
he had recovered his breath and got through
mopping his brow, discovered that the
benevolent stranger had taken complete hold
of the meeting, and was rapidly selling it
a “Patent Corn Tape” in shilling rolls.
THE OLD TROUBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, Adam built the fowl-house strong,
And built it high and fine ;
He drove in billets deep along
Where hens might undermine.
He fitted door and wicket well,
With wooden locks and keys ;
He told his wife to “shet her head”—
And then he sowed his peas.
Now, Adam’s wife was there, of course,
And prigged and prigged about,
Until she opened all the doors
And let the chickens out.
She said because of lice and fleas
They ought to have a run ;
And so they dug up Adam’s peas
And ate them —every one.
Now, Adam built his homely shed,
And furnished it with care ;
He placed a table and a bed
And kitchen-dresser there ;
So Eve she let the fowls come in
To warm their blessed selves ;
They laid in the potato-bin
And roosted in the shelves.
Young Eggbert, cockiest rooster there,
He fought old Addlebert;
They broke a lot of earthenware
And made a deal of dirt ;
But Eve she cleaned it up, and then,
While Adam shifted rocks,
She set the broody speckled hen
In Adam's figleaf box.
THE OTHER ONE'S FORECAST.
"Engaged to him, is she? What are his
prospects?”
"Rotten —with HER!”
Young Eggbert and the pullets took
The footrail of the bed,
With Addlebert and his old chook
Just over Adam’s head ;
The old bird dropped his ragged tail
And tickled Adam’s nose,
And, ere the stars began to pale,
He’d wake him with his crows.
And so began domestic strife—
Eternal nags and growls;
The gardener Adam and his wife
Fell out about the fowls.
When Adam stopped, his wife’s tongue kept
Its nagging, nagging way ;
Till Adam in the fowl-house slept—
He’s roosting there to-day.
No hags were there to sympathise,
So Eve grew pale and thin
Until she called, to hear her lies,
The baboonesses in.
The baboons (who were only men)
They got it hot and soon ;
They sympathised with Adam then —
They did, to a baboon.
And, though I know I am a brute,
I'll say it, frank and free,
It was a hen that pecked the fruit
On the Forbidden Tree.
And so the bailiff, Jerry Bimm
(Somewhat to Eve’s alarm),
Came down one morning grey and grim
And turned them off the farm.
And so to-day, you’ll find it true,
Where pampered wives are found,
They lie about their husbands to
The baboonesses round.
They leave the broken plates and let
The fowls roost on the shelves,
Till men (they’re only baboons yet)
Fall out amongst themselves.
The human baboonesses stir
The muck of married life,
And force the poisoned cup on her,
“The poor ill-treated wife” !
Until she takes the case to court,
Assisted to the tune
Of dirty costs by any sort
Of legalised baboon.
And .Eve goes in for politics
(She goes in more and more),
Until she piles and lights the sticks
And fans the flariies of war.
Nor all the folk with commonsense,
Nor all the men unhung,
Nor famine stark nor pestilence
Can stop her blessed tongue.
N.S.W
HENRY LAWSON.


LADIES'
COURT
SHOES
42/- the pair
Your size sent on approval, on
receipt of remittance, which will
he refunded if the shoes are
returned as unsuitable for your
requirements.
When writing please state size
and give full address.
The illustration shows a neat, all-enamel Kid
Black Court Shoe, with Cuban heels, pump
soles, and black-and-white buckle.
Price. 42/- pair.
Posted free to any address.
PIKE BROTHERS
Townsville BRISBANE
LIMITED
Toowoomba
SI
Electric FANS
All Standard Types
■ -i n Stock
British General Electric Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY
257 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE WELLINGTON, N.Z.
590 Bourke Street. 8 Willeston Street.
From this paper's Court chronicler: —
It. was to the discredit of the late Prince Chris-
tian that he lived to be 87. He might have appro-
priately died of shame three years ago ; for he was
the father of a treacherous dog who has done his
worst to hasten the abolition of the old Royalty
institution. Deceased Christian was a Dane by
birth, brother to the Duke of Schleswig-Holstein,
whose little kingdom was stolen by the Prussians in
1864. Therefore Christian, by the law of human
natuie, was anti-German in his sympathies when
he was chosen to marry Queen Victoria’s third
daughter, Helena. Marriage into the English Royal
Family was practically all he had to live upon,
his income being his wife’s allowance and the
salary attached to any sinecure he could get. He
was, for instance, Ranger of Windsor Park.
SUPERSTITION.
BOOKMAKER (to wife who has sent him to
drown black kitten) : “I thsay, Rebecca,
wouldn't it be petter to vait till after
der Cup meeting’s all over before ve
drvown it?”
Seeing that he and his wife were pensioners of
;he British, where should “loyalty” flourish if not
in the Prince Christian family? And who should
have hated Prussianism more bitterly than Prince
Christian’s sons? The eldest one appears to have
been British enough; but he died of enteric in
S’Africa, during the Boer War. The other son,
Albert, went to Germany to live, that he might
step into the shoes of his childless cousin, the
nominal Duke of Schleswig-Holstein, when Gott
ihould call him to his Danish fathers. As soon as war
had been decided upon at Potsdam, the Kaiser sent
this Albert to his native England to find out
exactly how unprepared it was. He posed as a
German officer spending his leave in dear old Eng-
land, and stayed on until a week before France was
invaded. Then he went quietly back to the Kaiser
with all the information the British Royal Family
had given him.
Royalty has never advanced a stronger argument
against itself than this prince’s treachery. As
the son of a dispossessed Dane he is false to the
principle of patriotism on his father’s side. As an
English born and bred grandson of Queen Victoria
he is false to the principle of loyalty on his
mother’s side. No wonder the trucklesome Asquith
tried hard to distract public attention, in the early
months of the war, from the fact that some of King
George’s family connections were wearing British
titles whilst fighting with the enemy. If the
Hidden Hand, which was always said to have
Asquith by the ear, and is not unsuspected of hav-
ing at least a finger on Lloyd George, be not a
royal hand, it is 'at least in a social position to
shake with royal hands. The German royal
courts, so closely identified with other royal courts,
are now revealed as nests of spies, and the Allies
are already known to have suffered much from the
machinations of the Kaiser’s Sovereign Family.
Hence the dread that the Hidden Hand’s effort to
prevent the destruction of Kaiserism "may succeed.
Obituary notices of the stodgy old royal nonentity
who died last week may serve as a further sugges-
tion of the danger that threatens.
Very different is the mind of the church-
man who has never seen beyond the texts on
the walls of the little bethel and that of his
brother who has been where the big guns
boom. The other day a khaki-clad member
of [Melbourne Anglican Synod strenuously
advocated the wet canteen and (while the
brethren swallowed hard) even urged that
beer—good, moist beer —should be on sale at
church tents for soldiers! The community
had scarcely recovered from this shock when
Chaplain-Colonel Davis, at the annual
assembly of the Congregational Union, held
in Melbourne, announced that, “in the light
of information received from soldiers, doc-
tors and nurses of- Christian character,” he
could not oppose Billjim being given a tot
of ruin in the trenches or stimulants in the
hospital. “Men who want the issue of the
tot stopped,” declared the chaplain, “are
unable to appreciate the conditions in the
trenches. The men have thanked God for
the issue before an attack” —and once more
there were shocked cries of “Oh. oh 1”
Nothing in the world can be quite as obsti-
nate as ignorance when it buttons its collar
at the back.
“Sergeant W.” : Jack Sommers,
in his par. (K. 17/7/T7) on the
N.C.C.’s(Non-Combatant Corps),
spoke the truth when he said
“they’ve a devil of a lot of pluck
to stick it out” It falls to my
lot to have to make a daily in-
spection of two Tommy labor bat-
talions. Every man of them ex-
cept officers, N.C.O.’s and certain
tradesmen is in some way defici-
ent. Some are either naturally
or through accident or other
causes mentally weak ; many have
so defective eyesight that they
have to wear glasses so strong
as to make their eyes appear to
be leaving the sockets. Others
are maimed or cripples, while
many appear so physically weak
that they give one the impression
that they have not had good
health for one whole day in their
lives. At first I was inclined to
treat them with contempt, but
when I found out that nearly all
of them had been turned down
several times in England before
being accepted under the Derby
scheme, I wanted to salute the
lot, especially as they are all
volunteers. Someone may ask
what is the use of men of this
type. It would be forbidden to
state all their duties, but I can
say that behind the lines there
are many jobs, and these N.C.C.’s,
by releasing stronger men for the
actual fighting, are up with the
best.
Raul Joseph, former paison and
present soldier, has been recalled
tfae memory ’ of Adelaide b y a
Supreme Court application. Rutt,
the architect who designed Joseph’s
“Temple” on North Terrace, which
was abandoned with the walls
b igh, and so remains to this
day _ claimed a lien on the land ;
bn ' t ’ Chief Justice Murray held, as
might have been expected, though
with admitted regret, that it would he
straining words to call such professional ser-
vices “work done on the land.’’ The practi-
cal effect of which is that the Workmen’s
Lien Act does not apply to architects.
* * * *
“Tito” : Holman's remarks about the pro-
Germanism rampant in the Dago Parlia-
ment surprise nobody acquainted with the
public life of Italy. Von Biilow, the Kaiser’s
ex-Chancellor, who has an Italian wife and
a fine villa in Rome, has always been a re-
markable political influence. He is almost
the only personage in the world who can
ignore the niceties of diplomatic intercourse
with the Vatican and the Quirinal by con-
sulting either one without offending the
other. Though he has no official status, he
and his sinister friend, ex-Premier Giolitti,
who leads a strong pro-German party in the
Chamber of Deputies, very nearly prevented
Italy breaking with her old partners of the
Triple Alliance. In addition to Biilow, there
is a capable Hun advocate in Erzberger, of
the Centre party of the Reichstag, who was
sooled on to official waverers with such effect
that Italy didn't declare war against Ger-
many until months after she had got her
teeth into the Austrians. No doubt Italy’s
Allies have 1 expressed faint surprise at the
prevalence of Erzberger in Rome. Also they
must be rather sore at the liberty enjoyed
by the pro-Hun press. One journal, the
Ossekvatore Romano, which surpasses the
Berliner Tageblatx in its strafing of
Britain, is still licensed to pour blessings on
the cause of Frightfulness. If Italy is mak-
ing towards a separate peace, the conditions
are riper for it than ever they were in
Russia. Holman talks about the pro-Ally
Italian Cabinet; but I would respectfully
inform him that the strongest man in it,
Baron Sidney Sonnino, the Foreign Minis-
ter, was a fanatic supporter of the Triple
Alliance. He may have changed his opinion,
but he was one of Crispi’s young men, and
Crispi’s enthusiasm for the Alliance made a
very enduring impression on his lieutenant,
despite the boasted influence of the latter’s
English mamma.
“Yarra Bend” sends his contribution: —
In the absence of my friend and colleague “Cal-
lan Park,” I have been deputed to put forward this
community’s latest views on the war.
The whole trouble about it is that it is altogether
too illogical and insane. For instance, if bombs
may be dropped, why not disease germs? They are
much lighter to carry, and if thrown on water-
catchment areas of big towns would be particularly
effective ; and our idea of letting poison snakes glide
to earth by means of parachutes has not been tried.
Prisoners have been done to death far behind the
lines. This is a waste of prisoner. Why not crucify
them up and down the battle-line as Titus did at
Jerusalem when the Jewish trenches and blockhouses
opposite looked too hard to take? Officers could be
given the alternative of fighting tigers in the arena
with boxing-gloves or a pocket-knife. Turks could
THE PERPLEXED EXPERT.
STINKER (the authority ): “Well, blokes, I must admit this Cup has got me beat.”
be publicly boiled and fed to vultures on the edge of
the desert. People outside talk about reprisals.
But people outside, having their own living to
make, have not the time to think. Therefore they
propose reprisals so mild that they don’t shake the
nerve of the person in the spiked hat, and are
wasted.
Among people who still pretend sanity, the pre-
tence that war is an orderly game played by rule is
steadily kept up ; but the difference between it as it
is and as it might be is not greater than that
between a pound of chops and a piece of beef-steak.
If we really want to end the war with speed and
certainty it is the psychological aspect that must be
looked at. One of us who feared neither man nor
devil, and who was as inferior with the sword as
with the gun, had an excellent mode of meeting
challenging duellists. Given choice of weapons and
ground, he always elected to fight with revolvers
over the space occupied by a handkerchief. No
adversary would ever face that ordeal. Now that
is what the Allied nations should do. They should
A DIFFICULT TARGET.
“Fashion Note. —Dresses at the races were a medley
of stripes and spots.”
CUPID: “Well, I’ll be blowed! As if busi-
ness wasn't bad enough, the women must
wear a camouflage dress.”
mention that if the Germans are in arms by May 1
next, no peace terms will ever be concluded which
do not embrace the execution of every person in
Germany holding any rank above colonel. By this
simple expedient the people who are the German
murder-leaders could at once be made the enemies of
the people. Every person with an ornament to his
name would walk with a rope round his neck, and
every woman with a lord of any distinction would
secretly strive for peace at any price.
Billy Hughes may pass this idea on to Lloyd
George.
“Marinoa”: The seamen’s strike has
opened up a new line of graft. A pal of
mine who runs an oil business had been try-
ing for weeks to get a ton of stuff shipped
to a client in Tasmania, but every time he
visited the wharf he was informed by the
agents that there were cargoes held up, and
he’d have to wait his turn. That was true,
but he noticed that Jones, a shrewd head,
was getting his stuff away promptly and
regularly. My pal sought Jones out and
asked him for the recipe, and, Jones, being a
decent fellow, told him that a little judicious
“persuasion” was advisable. His goods are
now going forward. But other merchants
have also been given the tip, and are doing
it. So everybody is on the same mark again
and a little worse off. And up goes the cost
of living a farthing or so further.
“Australian Native”: The Anzacs in
France are and have been for some time
feeling very sore about the way decent
estaminets and hotels in French towns are
put out of bounds to the man in the ranks.
To give a concrete case. The Australian
base is at ——, about three miles from .
Passes are issued occasionally to the latter
town. My pass bore the names of quite 60
restaurants, and even certain areas, which
I was barred, under certain pains and
penalties, from entering. On every side one
meets in large print the notice “For Officers
Only.” Practically the only place available
for the ranker is the Rue de , a very
unsalubrious quarter, and other regions
which the demi-monde frequent. To the
democratic Australian the inference that
the man in the ranks is not “class” enough
to enter any respectable quarter is particu-
larly galling. And no wonder venereal cases
are many when the Military Headquarters
only allow our men access to these places.
THE MOTHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Walking to church, alone, along the street
Where he walked with her, strong of step, and light,
She heard ring out the hells use made so sweet,
While half her life groped faintly in thick night.
And as the dead leaves drifted from the trees
About the churchyard, in her heart she said
“Far off in France our soldiers fall like these.”....
And memory stabbed her, saying “lie is dead.”
And always when she sought to find his face,
Her strong man-son, her soldier of the King,
A small hurt child came sobbing in his place,
And leaned against her breast for comforting.
Silent she sits in her accustomed seat,
And hears, unhearing, praise for victories won,
Vague, vexing murmurs which upon her beat—
“ That I had died for thee , my son....my son!”
MAORILAND.
ALICE A. KENNY.


THE VILLAIN DIES.
“The Emperor was for years obsessed with a dream of being the centre of a great moving picture controlling the destinies of the world.”
JUSTICE: “Yes, but the lust film of all is MINE.”


THE SPIKE Y SUITOR.
MISS PEACE: “Once and for all, Wilhelm, I don’t mind you bringing flowers, but I will NOT let you sit down and hug me until you take off all that horrid ironmongery.”


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute e@se. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester.
England. It's All-British, and economical in use. [2
A CLASSICAL MASTER’S LETTER to CLEMENTS TONIC
Mr. G. A. Lundie, M.A., formerly Assistant-Headmaster High School, Palmerston North, N.Z, writes of this Medicine
And recommends it to all professional people, especi-
ally to teachers in the Educational service of Aus-
tralia, who suffer from weak nerves, insomnia or
brain fag.
“Palmerston North,
“New Zealand.
"CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“I am an unsolicited witness to your remark-
able remedy.
“I suffered for years from a form of nervous
complaint, which manifested itself in profound
melancholia which I could not throw off.
tents Tonic Utd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
“My appetite was capricious to a degree, and
I developed ill-health, till life was a real burden.
“I was, furthermore, threatened with a com-
plete nervous breakdown. I could hardly fol-
low my duties as a high-school master, much
less give attention to serious teacher’s duties.
“I can honestly say your potent medicine
came to me as a revelation in healing, for T
regained my'health completely through its con-
sistent use.
“For teachers engaged in mental strain and
arduous study, your tonic is indispensable as a
stand-by.
I have recommended it to dozens of other
teachers, with most beneficial results.
“I am, Sirs, your faithfully,
“G. A. LUNDIE, M.A. r
a , re hundreds of teachers of both sexes employed in
the N.S.W. Educational Service to-cjay.who suffer from weak
nenes or acute nervousness, through continuous nerve strain in
caching and study, who never really enjov good health. It is
as much the worry of keeping their schools up to the educa-
lonal standard as the work which accounts for their feeling of
general ill-health. They should keep Clements Tonic on hand
cn a s^? nd * by ” medi cine, feeling certain that in its possession
hev will have a sweet soother of the nerves, a promoter of
keen appetite, and a general healer of the rundown and over-
wrought system. It makes weak people well and strong people
stronger. Get it to-day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRING
EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES
Ages of some Australian artists: Julian
R. Ashton, 66; Will Ashton, 36; Rupert
Bunny, 53; Norman Carter, 42; A Datillo
Rubbo, 46; Hans Heysen, 41; Geo. W. Lam-
bert, 44; Lionel Lindsay, 43 ; Norman Lind-
say, 38; W. Lister luster, 57; Syd Long,
45; John Longstaff, 55; David Low, 26;
Fred McCubbin, 62; sculptor Bertram Mac-
kennal, 52; Mortimer Menpes (born at
Port Adelaide), 58; B. E. Minns, 53; Chas.
Nuttall, 45; Ambrose Patterson, 40; John
Shirlow, etcher, 48 ; Sydney Ure Smith, 30;
D. H. Souter, 55; Percy Spence, 48; and
Arthur Streeton, 50.
ALL THAT WAS KEEPING HIM.
PUNTER: “Whatcher think of this talk of
bringing in Conscription?”
RUSTER: " Wot’s it matter? The Cup's over
an’ the bloomin’ tote’s a frost —a bloke
might as well be at the war.”
Alderman Denis Guihen, ex-president of
Sydney Labor Council, who died lately, aged
40, was of the very best type of Trades Hall
official —a hard thinker, an earnest student
of economics, and a forceful speaker. He
was one of the leaders who were told to
“stand aside” after the tram strike of 1908.
Thus he became assistant-sec. of the Trolly
and Draymen’s Union, and then sec. of the
Hospital Employees’ Union. Some years
back, when Hughes (then Federal Attorney-
General) was coquetting with the president-
ship of the about-to-be-appointed Inter-
State Commission, some in the know tipped
Guihen as his successor in the West Sydney
seat. However, Hughes thought better of
it, and “Dinny” missed the chance.
Another S. Aus. lawyer has been killed in
France—Louis Whitington, who served his
articles with Leslie Gordon, one of the first
to fall in the war. Whitington was captain
of the Adelaide Uni. lacrosse team for sev-
eral seasons, and practised his profession at
Naracoorte. He was kept on the staff for
some time in England, where they used
his services on court-martials, and he had
been only a month in France.
Archbishop Bartoleineo Cattaneo, the new
Papal Delegate to Australia, travelled from
Rome to Spain, embarking there on the
steamer Montserrat for New York. On
entering that port the vessel flew the white
and yellow Papal flag in honor of the dis-
tinguished passenger. On his way to Aus-
tralia, and while crossing America, .the
Archbish. spent his 56th birthday. He was
ARCHBISHOP BARTHOLEMEO CAT-
TANEO, the new Papal Delegate,
greets Australia.
rector of the Propaganda College of Rome,
where students of all nationalities for the
R.C. priesthood are trained. When he left
that job to come to Australia 30 Australian
students bade him so-long. The Archbish.
before entering the Capranican College to
study for the priesthood attained degrees in
Law, and was an Artillery officer at Genoa.
Harry Julius, the caricaturist, who hap-
pened to be his fellow-passenger to Aus-
tralia, found him very human and very
gentle, with a quiet, mellow sense of humor.
Angliss, M.L.C., of Melbourne, in spite of
the whitewash of commissions, is not popular
w-ith housewives nowadays, when a lamb-
chop is a luxury and a bit of fillet steak
ambrosia for a Croesus—as a mixed mytholo-
gist might remark in a bosky moment. The
ingenuous William, who recently declared
that he was making no profit at all out of
certain of his shops, not to mention the
word “profiteering,” has latterly been turn-
ing his attention to rabbits. Hence, prob-
ably, large advertisements in the Melbourne
dailies announcing that certain kind gentle-
men have rabbits for sale at from 6d. to 9d.
each at various suburban markets. True,
the name of Angliss doesn’t appear in the
ads., but, then, the Meat King is a modest
soul. For the rest, he is still a bachelor
and no more than 55. He doesn’t drink,
smoke or swear, and always looks twice at
tuppence.
Major Alec Steele, killed in France, was,
in a measure, another of the brilliant pro-
ducts of Duntroon. Born at Mount Gam-
bier (S.A.) 28 years ago, he blew a bugle
at 16. and after distinguishing himself at
the military school at Albury, became assist-
ant-instructor in machine-gunnery at Dun-
troon in 1913. He went to the Front with
an m.g. section, and was among the first to
land on Gallipoli, where he promptly won
the D.C.M. by maintaining his gun after the
rest of the section had been casualtied. A
mention and his commission followed. He
opened his French campaign as a captain,
having recovered from his Gallipoli wound,
and before 1916 was over he was a major,
and presently there was the D.S.O. along-
side the D.C.M., and at least one mention
by Haig behind it.
Killed in France, on October 12, Major
Gother R. C. Clarke. M. 8., son of Mordaunt
W. S. Clarke, of North Sydney, and a grand-
son of that distinguished geologist, W. B.
Clarke, who as far back as 1844 described
the gold occurrences in the Bathurst dis-
trict. Gov. Gipps, fearing the cupidity of
convicts and laborers, requested Mr. Clarke
to keep his discovery secret; but subsequently,
for this and other services as a geologist,
the great man was awarded £lOOO, and,
later, £5000: and Victoria also presented
him with £lOOO. His son —father of the
dead soldier —for many years- represented
the London and Liverpool and Globe Insur-
ance office, and now lives in retirement at
his father’s old home in North Sydney.
Died last week, in Sydney, Miss Mary
Newcombe Balcombe, daughter of Thomas
Tyrwitt Balcombe, an artist who flourished
in Sydney in the ’fifties. The original Wil-
liam Balcombe and his family were personal
friends of Napoleon on St. Helena, and when
the Emperor died William Balcombe came
to Sydney as first Colonial Treasurer.
One man, if elected in the coming Vic.
State elections, will be an undivided party.
This is George Greenslade, the anointed of
the very sanguine National Laborite, who
is to try a fall with Johnnie Lemmon in the
industrial stronghold of Williamstown —
which includes whole-hog Yarraville and
part of Footscray. Greenslade is an elderly
man, of late a piano salesman, but a
unionist of the old Spence school and a con-
temporary and helper of his in A.W.U.
affairs, being one of the first organisers of
that militant union. Fed up with red-
raggery, Greenslade was one of the first
National-Labor insurgents.
“Copy Boy”: Despite the figures at the
last Federal elections, Vic. Labor-leader
Elmslie should be able to keep his seat at
Albert Park. He will if personal popu-
larity counts for anything. In the old days
his opponent, John Baragwanath, better
known then as “Barry,” was a hefty foot-
baller, and he used the fame thus acquired
as a stepping-stone to municipal life. He is
a South Melbourne councillor, a J.P., and
a member of the Board of Health and the
Board of Shirks, and in all these positions
his pose is that of the rough-and-ready, no-
damned-nonsense-about-me citizen ; he is fond
of announcing that anyone “with any com-
monsense” must inevitably see eye-to-eye
with him, and makes no secret of his opinion
that a South Melbourne councillor is the
noblest work of God. Elmslie rqay be inef-
fectual, but he is also inoffensive, and he can
rely on obtaining a few votes which would
go to the “Nationalist” candidate were he
somebody other than John Baragwanath.
Dead, at Strathalbyn (S.A.), Matthew
Rankine, one of the State’s very oldest in-
habitants : he came from Scotland in 1859,
and was nine years old then. He was a
mighty farmer, rifle-shot and ScotcliDy-
terian.
MACKIN NON,
Director of
Recruiting,
making the best
of a bad job.
Forster Rutledge, lieutenant of artillery,
killed near Ypres the other day, came of a
family which has been raising sheep round
Bungendore and Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) for
the best part of a century. Young Rutledge
enlisted as a gunner, and won his commis-
sion on the other side. A few years back he
was a crack athlete at the King’s School
Parramatta (N.8.W.), and was also one of
the school rifle-team. His widowed mother
is the authoress of the little blue-bound
“Goulburn Cookery Book,” known to most
Australian housewives. Twelve of the Rut-
ledge family have worn Australian khaki in
this war, and three of them will never
return.
Three years ago, Jack Godfrey, a drafts-
man in the Government service at Darwin
(N.T.), was offered a good job in the Feder-
ated Malay States;
but just then he
heard the Belgian
kiddies crying, and
decided that the
comfortable billet
could wait. There
was talk of a com-
mission if he would
go through an offi-
cers’ school at
Duntr o on * but
Jack was in a
hurry, and a pri-
vate’s uniform was
sood enough for
him. He got across
m time to be in
Gallipoli, and was
quarter-master of
hi s battalion in
France when the
curtain was rung
down the other
day. He was born
24 years ago at
Maitland (N.S.W.).
MICHAEL
O'KEEFE,
M.H.A., Tasmania.
Captain Richards, of a trench-mortar bat-
tery, was a clerk in the Ma State’s railway
service when the burglar-alarms sounded
Jumping out of bed, he went as a private in
the force which made New Guinea safe.
Back in Sydney six months later, lie was in
time for part of the Gallipoli tragedy, in-
cluding Lonesome Pine. After the evacua-
tion he was transferred to France as ser-
geant, and before the Last Post sounded had
got a captaincy and a Military Cross.
Archibald Niven Sinclair, killed lately,
belonged to the well-known Sydney engineer-
ing family whose business shingle reads
“Wildridge and Sinclair, Ltd.” He enlisted
as a sapper in the Engineers, but was wear-
ing a captain’s stars when the end came. A
few months ago he was fastened to the Mili-
tary Cross “for conspicuous gallantry.” A
brother is an engineer-lieut. in Australia’s
navy.
Gone aloft, Henry Penner, an old hand in
the Newcastle-Sydney coal trade and one
of the best-known tug masters on the coast.
Ilis worst experience was 10 years ago when,
in charge of the Helen Nicoll. he was towing
the coal-laden schooner Jones Brothers out
of Newcastle. The weather was fair
enough, but suddenly three huge seas rose
up on the bar and the schooner with seven
men on board disappeared like a stone. Two
or three years ago Penner went to ’Frisco,
where he died in a longshore berth.
Another name to add to the N. S. Wales
Public Service Honor Roll is that of Cant.
J. C. Burges, late of the Education Depart-
ment. During 26 years he had taught the
young idea how to shoot at Bega, Fort-
street, Granville, Ivempsey and East Mait-
land High School. Latterly he had been in
England doing instructional work.
F. B. Bennett, lieutenant in the A.1.F.,
killed lately in France, was a brother of Aus-
tralian actress Enid Bennett, now'a “movie”
star in U.S.A. Their father was Frank
Bennett, an old-time master at the King’s
School, Parramatta (N.S.W.), and after-
wards headmaster of the Grammar School at
Guildford (W.A.), where he died 20-odd
years ago. The mother—now Mrs. Gillespie
—who lives at Rose Bay (Sydney), was a
Miss Walker, of the old Parramatta cordial-
brewing firm.
Gone the way of all flesh, aged 75, W. L.
Christie, one of the best-known men in Wel-
lington (M.L.). Born in England beheaded
south 57 years ago and joined an uncle in
Queensland. Then he pursued the yellow
metal at Bendigo and on various other fields,
including Otago (M.L.). During the Maori
war he saw a lot of fighting, and when peace
came settled down in the Defence Office in
Wellington, and stayed in the service
for 45 years, retiring in 1909. He was
the first Maorilander to bag the 1.5.0. His
youngest son, Lieut. 11. A. Christie, was
killed at Messines.
HOME-HUNGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am an alien in England old.
Her hallowed haunts and ways
No large, rich memories of beauty hold
For me these strange, still days.
The Abbey air should fill me with the dreams
Of older poets - song.
I can but hear my Lawson lilt the themes
Of my own land along.
They say these streets are peopled with the shades
Of Nelson and bold Drake—•
That when the soft, pale evening droops and fades
A myriad heroes wake.
I care not. All my thoughts are with my heart,
And that beats far in France —
Safe where my old battalion breathes a part
Of Joan’s land and her ljmce.
Oh, send me home to it! These sounds and sights
Of England weary me,
When ’cross the Channel through the dizzy nights
I see my company ;
I hear mate-voices, and their words awake,
Boyhood and Youth again.
I see the tassels of the wattle shake
Free o'er the leagueless plain.
Moon-darkened by a wound, I bow my head,
A wandering alien.
I would be gathered to the brother-dead,
Or in the ranks of men.
V.C.


VACATION TIME SOON
—the Xmas and New Year Holiday
Season is but Seven Weeks Ahead.
vt? Y^i
$
nUOWARDS the end of the
$ year the days go by with
-! amazing quickness, and
busy men are apt to over-
look their needs of dress until the
last moment, unless reminded of
the flight of time.
Christmas Day is even less than
seven weeks ahead, and the
wisdom of ordering a suit to
measure now or very soon will be
apparent to every man who
wants to have his outfit quite
complete before the holidays.
m
1 '
m*
VhW/fa
m
m
j-.+
• * •• «
i
m
S
■
%
1A
t*r'
. ; i
1/ AS
-S''- r
s
1
m
m
Wi
m
:■>
*****
y&.
4*4^
:■
a*
<&
-•••
56^-'
*3
V
os
• •
I'IS
--
\Ti
? r . .srV
r»
tm
m
*'f|»
>~-v
-#i
&
•A#r
►v
iff
S-
•■s
***
/l
SSF
X
\h
w
ft
“Austral” Sac
to Measure
75/-, 85/-, 95/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126147/-, 157/6
Patterns and measurement-forms are
sent post-free to any address on request.
Carriage is paid on all Country Orders.
COWING BR“ L T r
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484-490 Georsre Street, 3-17 Royal Arcade, and 304-306 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 02 Rrookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Read
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
BUYERS OX A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAS
Lead Drosses, ete
Brand.
all inquiries to be addressed to the secretary.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dyrmmin
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Special Steel Castings
„ CHARriYr CASTINGS required to complete
\vnsi'e GI Tu MACHINE for the BROKEN HILL PTY. STEEL
moot are ’ we believe, the LARGEST AND
MOST INTRICATE MADE IN AUSTRALIA TO DATE; the
15 a FEET V LONG°' ER 7 TONS ’ another weighs 3 TONS, and is
particulars are interested in Steel Castings, write us for further
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Mar., TO.. 175,590 10 p.c.= 142,500 33,090 115,972
Sept., TO.. 196,714 10 „ ~ 142,500 54,214 170,186
£150,000 of reserves capitalised.. 20,186
Mar., ’ll.. 207,42 S 10 p.e.= 150,000 57,428 77,614
Sept.,’ll. . 210,830 11 „ ~ 165,000 45,830 123,444
Mar., T 2.. 225,601 124 „ ~ 187,500 38,101 161,545
Sept., T 2.. 229,629 124 „ ~ 187,500 42,129 203,674
Mar., T 3. . 233,530 124 „ ~187,500 46,030 249,704
£250,000 of reserves capitalised.. I - 9 nlq
Sept., T 3. . 255,440 124p.e.=203,125 52,315 j
Mar., T 4. . 263,761 124 „ ~203,125 60,636 112,655
Sept., T 4. . 256,361 124 „„ 203,125 53,236 165,891
Mar., T 5.. 272,708 124 „ ~203,125 69,583 235,474
Assets written up, £3,250,000 1
Bonus to shareholders (in Fiji I 235,474
and N.Z. Co. stock), £3,250,000 J
Mar., T 6. . 261,250 64 p.e.= 211,250 50,000 285,474
Sept., T 6.. 143,004 64 „ ~105,625 37,379 322,853
Mar., T 7.. 145,758 64 „ ~105,625 40,133 362,986
Sept., T 7.: 136,502 64 „ ~105,625 30,877 393.863
*Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
Don’t compare the figures in the last three
lines with those above them without noting
the entry “Bonus to shareholders in Fiji
and N.Z. Co. stock, £3,250,000.” The lat-
ter co. balances only once a year, and it
pays a dividend of 6 p.c.; add the dividend
paid by this co., and the total received by
shareholders is the old £203.125. In the
Fiji and N.Z. Co.’s first two years the aver-
age half-yearly profit was £152.000; so that
the total profit hasn’t diminished at all. This
co. has the thick end of the stick. If it is
hurt by wars and strikes and droughts and
other pestilences, it has an amazing capacity
for hiding its wounds. Legislation and
weird Arbitration Court awards may
threaten the sugar-farmers w-itli ruin; it may
stand aghast at the infamies which are
fastened upon the people who run sugar-
mills ; it may, giving Australian legislators
and administrators and working-men and
weather a rest for a moment, look to Eng-
land and find that, in connection with Indian
immigration, the authorities have joined in
the conspiracy to do this co. an injury.
And still it manages to pay its little 124
p.c. on stock which has been very largely, if
not mostly, provided out of surplus profits.
If the essence of good management is the
capacity to turn threatened evil into good,
then the management of the C.S.R. is extra-
ordinarily good. That it is autocratic to
the last degree is equally true. For in-
stance, when a while ago it cut off the Fiji
and Maoriland business and formed it into
a separate co., it so arranged matters that
the shareholders, holding £3,250,000 of the
capital, have no say whatever in the control
or management. That is vested in the
directors of the old C.S.R. Co. and their
nominees; and as any new director is a
nominee of those already on the Board, for
all practical purposes the shareholder
doesn’t count even so far as the old co. is
concerned. Yet there is never a rumble
from within. A 124 p.c. dividend, with an
occasional share bonus, is a wonderful
soporific. From without there are, how-
ever, frequent threatenings. Some day they
may result in something definite. It looked
three or four years ago as though the
Queensland farmers would insist on getting
for themselves some of the quarter-million a
year which the C.S.R, grinds out of the in-
dustry in that State. But even the men
who have been hardest hit —men who would
be glad to get out of the sugar-growing busi-
ness at a loss of a third of their capital—are
only here and there to be found railing
against the co. In particular the Dickson
award overdid things and turned the rancor
of the farmers away from the C.S.R. and
towards Arbitration Courts and that politi-
cal muddling which this year has caused
the absolute loss of hundreds of thousands
of tons of cane.
A note to the table at the head of these
remarks mentions that the reserves, and
consequently the profits, are exclusive of
Replacement and Depreciation Fund. This
fund now amounts to £727,450; £17.628 was
added to it last half-year. This is very pro-
bably not the only provision for depreciation.
It certainly has not been in the past. In
addition £265.340 is standing to the credit
of the employees’ provident fund; and. re-
garding that, general manager E. W. Knox
has addressed a note to shareholders. Actu-
ally, it appears, the Fund owns £360.000
worth of shares plus an unspecified amount
in deposits. In 1890 the co. established this
fund frankly in order to prevent strikes in
the sendee. Absence for a Week without
leave constituted resignation; those who
lately thus “resigned”—3o p.c. of the co.’s
wage-earners—have, in consequence of the
recent strike, been “paid out,” which appar-
ently means that they got their subscrip-
tions back, but lost their interest in the
co.’s subvention; and, that subvention hav-
ing been put into shares which have in-
creased enormously in value, what the men
have forfeited is more than they have re-
ceived. The general manager admits that
“this is the first strike of any importance
that has occurred in the co.’s history”;
and seeing that almost every other large
industry in the country has had many
strikes during the past 27 years, it might
at least be conceded even by the general
manager that the co.’s scheme has served its
purpose with extraordinary success. Yet
he professes to see in this one strike a “grim
commentary on the theories advanced about
profit-sharing”; and there appears to be no
disposition on his part to treat the sadly-
misguided strikers under the First Offenders
Act. For him Shylock seems to be the
hero; Portia with her plea for mercy the
villain. That he should “confess to a great
disappointment” is natural enough. Nobody
who knows will disbelieve that for 47 years
he has aimed at making the conditions of
employment in the C.S.R. service “as good
as or better than those in other services.”
But it is surely something in their favor
that the co.’s employees desired others
to enjoy good conditions also. They
“neither then nor since claimed to
have any grievance against the co.”
That they should have struck in such
circumstances Mr. Knox seems to regard as
peculiarly abominable. It may have been
peculiarly foolish. But it at any rate shows
that they were not altogether selfish. And,
after all, that is what Mr. Knox’s own
scheme has been des'gned to teach—to think
of others as well as themselves. If, for once,
they thought of the wrong people, it surely
should not be impossible for the great C.S.R.
Co. to do something less drastic than it
appears to have resolved upon. Mr. Knox
himseif would think it very hard if, because
ot one mistake made under great stress, and
to assist another employer whom he believed
hardly dealt by, the whole provision for his
old age was confiscated. And that is what
the loss of their pension rights means to
these men —too old, many of them, to start
making provision anew.
* * * *
State Accident Insurance Office of
Victoria :
June, Revenue. Outgoings. To Reserves. Reserves.
1915.. £27,546 £7,837 £19,709 £19,709
1916.. 25.951 17,791 8,160 27,869
1917.. 26,922 19,393 7,529 35,398
The reserves include provision for unexpired
risks; if you deduct the amounts set aside
for that purpose, profits, etc., have been as
follows :
Profits. Reserves.
1915 .. £4,245 £4,245
1916 . . 10,964 15,209
1917 . . 7,047 22,256
Out of that reserve it is now intended to pay
a bonus to policy-holders. As to this dis-
tribution the Commissioner says: “It has
been arranged on an equitable and scientific
basis, calculated to yield to policy-holders
the best return possible, dependent on the
main factors which have assisted in making
such profits, viz., individual claims experience
and premium income.” But the office believes
that it has given the State something much
more important than a bonus. Listen to the
Commissioner: —
1915. —Premium rates as at present charged are
on the whole cheaper than in any other State of the
Commonwealth or Maoriland, while no policy as
liberal has ever been issued in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.... Regulations have been framed requiring
various employers to submit their actual experience,
and this... .should prove the means of all rates being
placed on a more scientific basis than ever before
attempted.
1916. —Some 134 rates have been substantially
reduced. The saving must be very welcome when it
is borne in mind that the trend of prices generally
is upwards.
1917. At November 7 last some 270 rates were
reduced in accordance with the underwriting experi-
ence gained, and a similar method will be followed in
the interests of employers generally until such time
as experience proves that absolute'bedrock rates are
charged.
All the same, it is not desirable to go on
cutting and cutting rates until no profit at
all is shown. The office has no capital in
the ordinary sense, though it has the backing
of the State ; so contingencies must be pro-
vided for out of accumulated profits,-because
it would be most undesirable to fall back on
the Treasury. The rates ought, certainly, to
be as low as any private competitor can offer;
but any advantage the State office can offer
beyond that would be most safely and effec-
tively given by way of bonus, especially if
in the calculation of bonus the claim experi-
ence of the policy is taken into account. In
other words, the reduction of rates through
a bonus has the great advantage of being
governed by the claims. The policy-holders
who prim a facie have been paying too much
because they have made hardly any or no
claims get the largest rebate.
This office differs from that of Queensland
in one important respect. In both States
the insurance of employees is compulsory;
but while in Queensland the State office has
a monopoly', in Yic. this State office has to
battle with competitors. The result is that
this office can't offer as cheap insurance as
it would be able to if it didn’t have to pay
commission. In Queensland the exes, are 1-1
p.c. of the earnings, and may be expected to
be less as preliminaries are done with; in
Victoria the exes, are 20 p.c. Thus the
policy-holder pay's 8 p.c. for the privilege of
having the competition of private offices with
the State, and what he gets in return isn’t
visible. Above all things, in Australia we
must increase production ; and this generally
means that we must reduce the costs of pro-
duction. If there is a waste of 8 p.c. of
premiums on insurance which the State com-
pels the employer to pay for, then by so
much do we handicap production and damage
Australia. This country has got a sickening
of State action in many directions. But we
must be careful. Nobody should be so
stupid as to propose to abolish public
fire-brigades or State-paid policemen. And
it is difficult to see why we should penalise
employers by compelling them to take out
accident insurance and then permitting 50
offices to scramble for the business and em-
ploy a few hundred agents and h few' score
motor-cars, etc., in the process. A mutual
office, to which the policy-holders send their
business without canvass, is better than a
State office run on those competitive lines.
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves,
1905.. £6724 10 p.c, *= £2500 £4224 £14,023
1906.. 5172 10 „ „ 2500 2672 16,695
1907.. 5118 10 „ „ 2500 2618 19,313
1908.. 6013 10 „ „ 2500 3513 22,826
1909.. 5712 10 „ „ 2500 3212 26,038
1910.. 6463 10 „ „ 2500 3963 30,001
1911.. 6241 10 „ „ 2500 3741 33,742
1912.. 5833 10' „ » 3000 2833 36,575
1913.. 6237 10 „ „ 5000 1237 37,812
1914.. 6488 10 „ „ 5000 1488 39,300
1915.. 6609 10 „ „ 5000 1609 40,900
1916.. 6724 10 „ „ 5000 1724 42,633
1917.. 6758 10 „ „ 5000 1758 44,391
The directors take a chip off the book value
of the O’Connell-street property when they
can; and that has reduced the past year’s
profits by £S6S. But even allowing for
that, profits have not grown in proportion
to the business. And this is why:—
Gross Salaries, Fees Taxes and
Earnings. and Bonuses. Office Charges.
1910 .. £11,743 £4167 £763
1914 .. 13,041 5551 827
1915 .. 14,515 6102 1501
1916 .. 16,988 7548 2716
1917 .. 17,504 8177 1951
One line of the costs may be reduced a bit
when Billjim comes home, because the office
is paying out a good deal for staff-men who
are doing something more strenuous than
pushing a pen. But the public conscience has
been more or less awakened regarding the
clerk’s pay; and that pay will never again be
permitted to be so miserable as it was a few
years ago. Add to that the extra taxation
that will bowl along, and it isn’t likely that
the outgoings will be much if at all reduced
for some time to come. As to gross earn-
ings—turning to the other side—the first
thing to note is the competition of the State
office. Its statutory duty is to reduce
charges to the lowest point at which the
business can be done; and that is going to
make it difficult for private offices to main-
tain some of their rates. The private office
isn’t, however, going to get a knockout, for
these reasons: (1) The fatter a man’s purse
is, the more disinclined he is, as a rule, to
give State enterprise a chance; (2) this co.
has £5,005,429 of estates in hand, including
£4,545,628 of trusts, as against £3,029,970 in
1910; (3) though earnings may be affected
by shrinkages in the value of some estates
because of threatening taxation, income will
be substantially improved for some years to
come by the large increase in the interest
earnings of many trust estates. Five years
ago the first-class mortgage security could get
money at 4£ p.c. or a fraction less ; this and
other Sydney cos. had nothing recently for
the same securities at less than 64 p.c.
In spite of clouds in the sky, a collapse of
earnings is, therefore, not at all likely.
This shows the position from the point of
view of the capital:—
1905. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Capita!.. ..£25,000 £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Liabilities .. 23 16,679 17,111 16,103
Assets: —
Treasury
deposit . . 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages .. 20.289 21,558 23,103 24,353
Premises .. Nil 67,902 67,902 68,118
Sundry debtors 98 98 759 661
Cash.. .. 959 30 30 30
Thus practically everything is in the
Treasury deposit, the new city office
premises and mortgages; and the mort-
gages are the only one of those items
about which there can be any uncer-
tainty. The man who thinks of making the
co. his executor will no doubt view alf that
with satisfaction, and note further that
there is £950,000 of uncalled capital. But
of far more practical importance is it that
the co. depends for its living upon the wav
it does its job. It is this which distinguishes
it from the trustee and executor with whoifi
being a trustee and executor is merely a
sideline, more or less accidental. J
* *
The Solomon Islands Rubber Planta
tion Ltd. (Brisbane).—This co. took over
the beginnings of a plantation from Captain
Svensen seven years ago, and certainly ex-
pected to be making profits before now. Its
hopes were largely built on 112 acres of rub-
ber, which had been planted in 1908-9. But
a rubber-plot of 112 acres is a doubtful com-
mercial proposition; they reckon in the
Malay States that it takes 300 acres to make
it worth while. After a few trees had been
tapped in 1913 and 1914 the knife was put
away. Nevertheless, Capt. Svensen, who is
still a large holder and a mortgagee (the
co. oVves him £BOOO payable 1925), thinks
that this rubber might be worked in with
the copra; and certainly an attempt should
be made to do it. There are 12,500 trees
of which fully 95 p.e., he thinks, are fit for
tapping; and the manager has been in-
structed to do a bit of experimenting.
Meantime it has been the usual slow busi-
ness of watching cocoanuts grow, and adding
slowly to the plantation as money dribbled
in. Even now there are only 916 acres
planted, all, apparently, along the foreshore.
So far 175 acres are in bearing (not all
full) ; that^ means about 9625 trees out of a
total of 50,393. Last year’s crop was
117,3761 b. A fair price in Sydney for copra
is about £24 per ton, which means 24d. pet
lb. or thereabouts. On the experience gained
by this co., harvesting and making copra and
getting it to market will cost lid. It
ought to cost less; but labor is scarce in the
Solomons and recruiting will probably grow
steadily dearer. Last year’s crop was
117,3761 b. In four years from now, il
hurricanes and other pests keep away, the
yield should be four times greater than it is
to-day, and in six years at least six times
greater. Thereafter it should grow for
another three or four years. A profit of Id.
per lb. can be figured on with reasonable cer-
tainty, provided, of course, the market doesn’t
break. Thus within six years from now the
co. should be earning 10 p.c. on its present
capital; and it is more than possible that
meanwhile copra will show a considerable
improvement in price over the old level, to
the advantage, of course, of the co. The
weak point is finance. Development has
been expensive ; it has cost £38,000 to add 660
acres to the original plantation, and it will
cost a lot more yet to bring the last 500
acres into bearing. The capital is £60,000
and £57,404 is now paid. Liabilities (apart
from the £SOOO mortgage due 1925) are only
a. few hundreds and are about balanced by
liquid assets. The three estates comprise
14,000 acres ; the area planted is 1028 acres,
and it is doubtful whether the uncalled £2500
of capital plus the proceeds of the copra
crop will bring even the present plantation
into full bearing. To try to get round the
corner the co. is “working with the smallest
labor force that is possible,” and apparently
has introduced cattle to help keep the clear-
ings free of weeds. Two or three years ago,
feeling doubtful whether it had the strength
to do justice to the estate, it was proposed
to sell out; and an option was actually given.
But William spoiled that. However, there’ll
have to be some change if the estate is to
be reasonably used. Shareholders certainly
w r on’t go on indefinitely throwing their little
fish back into the sea in order to fatten those
that may be hauled out later on.
* * » *
The Brisbane Permanent Building
and Banking Co. :
Dividendsand Written To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1905.. £2,867 Nil £16,322 £5,195
1906.. 1,353 Nil 542 £Bll 6,006
£24,393 capital written off and added to
reserves . . .. .. .. 30,399
£22,874 written off properties .. 7,525
1907.. 1,970 2 p.c. = £l7 4 6 1,181 6,568
1908.. 2,633 2 „„ 1746 1,632 5,823
1909.. 3,800 3 „ „ 2620 828 352 6.175
1910.. 5,716 4 „ „ 3495 2221 8,396
1911.. 5,957 4£ „ „ 3714 550 19TS 10,089
1912.. 7,370 4} „ „ 4151 3219 13,308
1913.. 7,824 5 „ „ 4369 3455 16,763
1914.. 9,915 5 „ „ 4369 5546 22,309
1915.. 8,899 6 „,, 5308 3591 25.900
1916.. 10,624 6 „ „ 5308 5316 31,216
Transferred to capital, £10,454 .. 20,762
1917.. 9,553 6 p.c. = 5902 3651 24,413
This co. fell into the usual difficulties when
the big boom burst in Queensland, and for
many years it toiled with a towel round its
head working off a whole mob of dead-
horses. In the year when the table opens
it found that, though it had resumed divi-
dends previously', it had done it prematurely:
so it starved shareholders once more and
also wrote down the £1 shares to 16s. 6d.
Then the resources of the great State re-
asserted themselves ; loan-mongering was also
resumed, and the co. was able to get rid of
the old written-down properties and inci-


For
31 Years
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company
(Limited)
has been in busi-
ness as a Corporate
Trustee.
Since its incorporation
it has never been held
liable by the Courts
for a breach of Trust
of any description.
The Company acts as
Executor and Trustee.
Administrator in Intes-
tacy, Attorney Under
Power, Agent, etc., etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Manager:
r. COPLAND LETHBRIDGL.
The Pacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery m Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning. „ . -
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
/9d. (minimum
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6 15/. 20 words)
New Zealand..
Canada
4jd.
2/4
. j 7d. (minimum
11 i 1 11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/41
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
W ee k.end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Bydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen's House, Queen Bt., Melbourne. Tel. 2688.
J MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
■ 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
fills the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applitations. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars. — Advt.
Everything is going up, even writing-paper which
is suppQ'Cd to be stationery. And as for roofing-iron
prices—they look like seeking altitude records. How-
ever that need cause no worry to the man who has
to buy roofing, for he can get Adamax Roofing,
which costs only one-third the price of iron, and” in
addition is unaffected by rust, fumes or acids.
Adamax is a better roofing than iron at its lowest
price. It costs less to buy, less to lay, and the
freight is less. Write to-day for sample and booklet,
“The Adamax Series.’’ William Adams and Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and
Adelaide.— Advt.
For grind inf; all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
For hydraulic mining and dredging Pioneer Wood
Pipe is the ideal piping to give satisfactory service.
It withstands erosion and carries the heavist material
brought up by the dredges without deterioration. It
is light for transport and easily handled, connections
and disconnections being a very simple matter. AVe
manufacture a special line of Pioneer Wood Pipe for
this purpose. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Woodpipe Co., Ltd. (Head office), Burns
Bay Road, Longueville. Contractors to all State
Governments. Factories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W. ;
Footscray, Vic., and Port Adelaide, S.A.— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.—Advt.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. —Machinery. Head office:
Sydney. In spite of war and submarines we can supply
immediately: “Robey’s” famous Steam Portable
Engines, 8, 14 and 16 nominal h.p. ; “National”
world-renowned Oil and Petrol Engines from 1$ to 7
brake h.p.; “National” Suction Gas Engines, 18 and
46 brake h.p.; “National” Suction Gas Plant for
about 100 brake h.p. engine; “National” Town’s Gas
Engines, ii to 26 brake h.p.— Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.—Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa’
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling'
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, a
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; am
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ' 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. R, CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: City 4375. Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
dentallv make shares up to ISs. again. At
August 31 this year so thorough had the
clearance been that freeholds, apart from
o ace premises, stood in the books at only
t 53. Meantime, however, the co. had
■neatly increased its advances; and on the
same date these stood at £270,373. In the
past three years the co. has obliged borrow-
ing customers to this extent: 1015. £47.411;
1016. £66,536: 1917, £66.034. Apparently,
therefore, a very considerable proportion of
the advances now outstanding consists of
comparatively new loans —loans, that is, on
which there have been only moderate repay-
ments. Now, new loans are those which are
liable to cause a finance co. of this kind the
worst trouble in the event of a sudden slump ;
and, as a slump beyond that which has
occurred is highly probable, very much
depends upon the margin which the manage-
ment has insisted upon in making advances
during the last three years.
How the directors view the position this
paper does not know. In October. 1915,
they said, to excuse the smaller advances for
the'preceding term, that “for a period at the
beginning of the war and during the first
half of the co.’s financial year, we, as a
precautionary measure, thought it prudent
to restrict advances to some extent”; but
afterwards they seem to have decided that
no such precaution was necessary. At any
rate, they proceeded to make larger advances
than thev had done prior to the war. They
mav be 'right. Things may go on just as
they did before the war. This country’s
expenditure of £200.000,000 and upwards on
war may make no difference. The taxation
to pay the interest on the debt, not all of it
local, may make no difference. Values, in
spite of taxation to come, may stay where
they were. The sudden stoppage of the
issue of paper money, the lavish expenditure
of millions of borrowed money, the sudden
ending of war prices for wool and meat and
copper and other products may not be notice-
able. But it will be just as well to assume
that, by reason of all these things, the posi-
tion may be changed just a little. Possibly
this co. has prepared for all that. It is to
be hoped so, at any rate. If it hasn’t pre-
pared so far, it is to be hoped that it ■will
get to work at once. And getting to work
in this case means discounting present values
severely in making new advances; and using
every effort to get in all the instalments
payable as they fall due.
The co.’s own funds amount to £125.303
and it owes £211,480 to depositors. So me
of the deposit money (how much The
Bulletin doesn’t know) is on current
account, interest being paid on minimum
monthly balances. Liquid assets, nearly
all in cash, total £61,067. It looks a
solid holding; but whether it is all it should
be depends on the extent of the current
accounts. There is, however, no visible
reason whatever why depositors sh°Uid not
feel quite comfortable. Total liabilities,
including the dividend payable for the hall-
vear, were in round figures £216,000. De-
duct £61.000 of liquid assets, and there
remains £155,000 of debt represented by no
less than £251.000 of advances and other
assets. Among these advances are no old
dead stock; so the margin of safety for the
depositors is very wide. #
Svdnev Ferries is issuing 50.000 shares
in payment for the Balmain
Co.’s property. That will mean four Sj dney
Ferry shares' for every five Balmains.
** * * * *
In view of the price that it temporarily
went to after war broke out, it is not sur-
prising that a good deal of misconception
exists concerning the value of manganese oie.
Manganese deposits are distributed so pro-
fusely throughout the world that only the
purest and handiest deposits of m r B e Size
were worked before the war. The woild s
price, roughly £3 per ton, was so low that
even if a deposit was pure it could not get
much of a chance in the world’s trade unless
the owner was prepared to spend a huge sum
in opening up on a large scale and searching
about for a market. The probable reward
was not good enough to tempt any .^ ew f
ccmer to do this. Consequently the bulk of
the manganese-ore supplies of the world
prior to the war were produced by Russia
and India, both of them old at the business.
The United States was an importer. She
consumed all that she could produce at com-
petitive rates, and imported the balance.
The annual consumption of the ore then
approximated 3,250.000 tons, and although
everv country on earth had its deposits,
Russia. India and America held the trade.
The Balkan troubles gave India her chance
over Russia. The British dependency in
slightly over 10 years raised her
from 200,000 tons to approximately 1.000. WU
tons per annum. The war having knocked
Russia out of count, everybody more oi less
found himself short of manganese, and
unfortunately for many industiies
require very pure ore, the Russian supp .v
was essential. _
Briefly, the world’s use for manganese ore
can be divided into two classes: (1) Tim
steel industries; (2) the chemical indus-
tries. Concerning use by the steel indus-
tries. manganese ore to be worth considera-
tion at all must comply with the following
conditions: Not less than 48 p.e. manganese
as metal; not more than 0.2 p.c. phosphorus;
not more than 8 p.c. silica. For a few weeks
after war broke out ore of that grade—that
is to say, ore just acceptable—was worth £6
or £7 per ton ; but at that figure many de-
posits were quickly opened up, and soon
the over-supiily of this relatively impure ore
brought the price back to normal again. And
the normal price only pays a few of the
lucky pi-oducers who have cheap transport
facilities and are near big steel works. Con-
cerning the use of manganese ore for the
chemical industries the requirements are as
follow : The ore must contain at least SO p.c.
manganese dioxide, and it nlust not contain
more than 4 p.e. iron. This is the pure
stuff that is supplied in abundance in times
of peace by the Russian from the Caucasus
at about £3 per ton. and this is the stuff
for which it in reported America paid as
high as £6O per ton at one period of the
war. No such price was, however, available
for any length of time, and England has
been able to get her supplies of this high-
class stuff at about £25 per ton.
Australia has plenty of deposits of man-
ganese ore. but only one or two of them so
far opened up are yielding a product low
in iron and high in manganese dioxide. Pro-
bably when we get a new brand of politi-
cian we will start in earnest to develop ail
the secondary industries. These secondary
industries have their beginning in steel, and
when we are making about five times as
much steel as we are to-day, the idle man-
ganese deposits of the country will be able
to get a move on. Until then our operations
will be so small that the bigger producers
of the Old World -will continue to undercut
us. Since the war the local deposits have
had some measure of Protection, and we
have actually produced for our own use
about 1000 tons per annum. Prior to the
war we imported the Russian. It may be
that if the war continues long enough our
industries will actually get a start.
* * * *
There is still a kick in Lloyd’s old mine
at Burraga (N.S.W.). It is now owned by
the Abercrombie, an English co., which dur-
ing the past four weeks got out 12 p.c. con-
centrates containing 63 tons metal. About
equal quantities of old slag and new ore are
being treated for a recovery all round of
slightly under 2 p.c.
* * * *
Westonia yields for October don’t compare
well with previous crushings. Edna Con-
solidated's first run with its own plant was
an 84dwt. average from 1533 tons, com-
pared* with a 14dwt. return from 277 tons
crushed in May from the Middle reef. The
explanation that only 500 tons of the pre-
sent milling came from that formation
doesn’t explain the cause of the drop in the
average. Central netted only £21)10 from
1940 tons, against £3327 for September,
showing how much Oiblin must want to
get into better-grade dirt at No. 4, especially
as the bullion from the cyanide isn’t making
much of a splash. Deeps bettered the Sep-
tember average of 27dwt., but it will be
hard going to maintain that grade. Edna
May put a bit more stone through for slightly
less gold. It is paying another 2s. div.,
which means that the co. has been on the
list for four years and has ladled out £6 13s.
per share, or a total of £284,953.
* * * •
From Westonia: —
Edna May Deeps is stoping out as expeditiously
as possible all the £6 ore above 560 ft. and showing
about £3OOO per month profit. As the quantity
of ore of this grade above that level is distinctly
limited, grinding pans are to be installed. These
will enable a greater tonnage of lower-grade ore to
be milled ; but, of course, expenses will swell accord-
ingly. A winze is being sunk on the rich shoot
from the 560 ft. level, and the average values
obtained range from 40 to 50 dwt. The prospects
of Deeps for the next few months are good, but if
sinking of the main shaft is not soon resumed, ore
reserves of decent grade will get very small.
Consolidated continues to expose additional ore
reserves above 210 ft., but prospects as regards length
and depth of ore body are poor. Width and value
are all right, but the mine is an awkward one to
work, the ground being bad and filling expensive.
Central is making preparations to contend against
the heavy inflow of water which is tiireatening at
321 ft. The co. continues to pay expenses, but there
is nothing in sight—unless it be the possible striking
of the Consolidated lode at depth—to justify the
hone that it will show improved performances.
Edna May has located what appears to be a new
lode near the surface. The ore is about sft. in
width, worth 15dwt„ and should it prove of any
considerable extent it will provide a timely addition
to the mine’s reserves.
Hamilton, of Boulder, and Dorrie
Doolette were recently introduced to a new
find at Nevoria. 25 miles south of
Southern Cross. Both took options over
various leases, but the latter soon abandoned
his because leaseholders asked too much.
Although in 99 cases out of 100 the seller
of a mining lease gets the better of the deal.
owners still open their mouths very wide
whenever a buyer comes along. The Nevoria
finds look promising, but up to the present
very little work has been done on them.
The almost worked-out Brown Hill Ex-
tended at Kalgoorlie will probably be
absorbed by the Westralia Mines Develop-
ment Syndicate, a venturesome concern
which already owns one forlorn hope on that
field and some wild-cat interests in South
Africa. A majority on the Extended’s regis-
ter has already agreed to the proposal. v
* * * *
Dr. Laver is most optimistic over the
prospects of some gold shows at Binti Binti,
beyond Kauowna (W.A.), known as the
Melba Prop. Values ranging from half to'
over an ounce are reported to be in sight,
and fortunes are declared to be ahead. Some
years ago an Adelaide crowd prospected the
same blocks but gave up for want of capital
to get water and instal a mill. And the
reefs weren’t good enough to command capi-
tal.
* * * *
“Quinax” : Re the Wild Cat’s remarks (B.
18/10/T7) on Dalmayne Collieries (Tas.),
please permit me a few observations: —
(1) The eo.’s aerial tram is guaranteed by the
makers, Ropeways Limited (Eng.), to carry an
average of 500 tons per d y, and the reputation
of Gibson, Battle and Co. (the agents in Australia
for Ropeways Limited) stands behind this guar-
antee.
(2) The two existing mines at Fingal (Tas.) which
“have the benefit of direct railway communication
to Hobart and Launceston,” have to pay 9s. 6d.
per ton to Hobart and os. 7d. per ton to Laun-
ceston for the privilege. The sea carriage, how-
ever, from Piccaninny Point (the Dalmayne Col-
lieries’ wharf) is only about 4s. 6d. per ton to
either Hobart or Launceston.
(3) For steaming purposes some (not all) of
the coals of N. S. Wales are admittedly superior
to Tasmanian, but much inferior to those of the
Island State for household use.
(4) The Dalmayne Co. has a seam of 13ft. of
coal, calculated to contain 28,000,000 tons (apart
from four other seams), and it is believed the
cost of production will be found easily the lowest
in Australasia. If so, big profits can be expected.
(5) As over 12,000,000 tons of coal are raised
in Australia every year, the Dalmayne Co.’s output
of 150,000 tons should not greatly ruffle the market.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff Extended (Tas.) comes
along with a sixpenny. Numerous faces and
stopes carry from lGin. to 36in. of payable ore
assaying over 1 p.c. tin. The latest monthly
clean-up returned lt> tons of concentrates
from 1242 tons of crudes. Necessarily costs
are high, for the lode is narrow and the
ground hard. But a combination of circum-
stances makes an occasional div. possible.
The workings extend through nine levels
and there are numerous stopes to feed the
mill. Also the concentrates after they have
been calcined are of good grade and easily
marketable. So far the deep levels have
hardly realised expectations, but No. 9 hasn’t
been driven far.
* * * *
Blythe River Iron Mines, Ltd., is out-
lasting its directors. Two of them died
during the year—Tolhurst and Keats.
Formed some time last century, it has ever
since lived in hopes of selling its great
deposit to somebody; and once more
“negotiations are in progress which the
Board is hopeful may lead to a satisfactory
result.” In order to keep the wolf —repre-
sented by the Tasmanian Government —at
bay, a little labor has been done when the
co. couldn’t get exemption ; but the surplus
of liquid assets over liabilities was down to
£73 on July 31, and, though the current labor
exemption runs to January, “the directors
may in a short time have to place a scheme
for the creation of required capital.” Present
capital is £500,000.
Clark’s, Charters Towers, has declared a
3d. dividend (£1125). The last return from
421 tons was £5904 = £l4 per ton. The pre-
vious crushing of over 400 tons realised £l9
per ton. The output has been at the rate
of 70 tons per fortnight, but this from a
reef averaging about 9in. will be difficult to
maintain. Nothing can be said about re-
serves, because the future depends on the
value of the reef in hard country below No.
8 and on lateral development.
* * * *
The Speck’s King River hydro-electric
scheme is a big thing, according to the report
of the Public Works Committee —probably
bigger than the Great Lake scheme. The
Committee endorses the statement that a
safe 45.000 h.p. could be got from the gorge,
and reckons the total cost, including trans-
mission lines to Zeehan and all the other
exes., at £900,000. Mount Lyell wants
25,000 h.p. for its Read-Rosebery zinc-ore
proposition, and though the figures aren’t
given the Committee reckons that the price
would be payable. There are other outlets
for power, present or prospective, and an
interlocking line to link up with the Great
Lake works would enable current to be
switched across the island if it was wanted.
Some weeks back a party of Sydney
mining men visited Gundle (Hastings River,
N.S.W.) to look into its tin-mining possibili-
ties. Nearly 200 acres were secured, and
operations will soon be in full swing. Possibly
because the Hastings is not a mining dis-
trict, Gundle has evaded the eyes of the
expert. Twenty years ago some work was
done with an obsolete plant on the lodes;
more or less ore of good quality was won.
but the market faltered and operations
fizzled out. Tin at the time went to about
£4O a ton ; at the end of October it was six
times as much. Lode-tin mining in Aus-
tralia has with extremely rare exceptions
held out just enough hone to be tantalising;
but the present market will give a decent
show a run for the money put into it.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
CfcartesHeidsieifc
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
MINIATURE PICTURE CAMPAIGN
In aid of ST. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE.
500,000 Miniatures of Famous Pictures
for sale at 1/- each.
Mr. John Wren will Buy the Winning Miniature
for £5OOO or £lOOO. 49 Others will be Bought
for Sums ranging from £l2O to £5.
Campaign closes Nov. 30. Drawing on Dec. 8.
Apply THE SECRETARY, ST. VINCENT’S
HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply-^
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
GBi PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
A AVAR-TIME BEAUTY SECRET.
HOW TO LOOK BEAUTIFUL ON LESS MONEY.
In these days of economy we welcome
anything which enables us to cut down ex-
penses, and many lady readers will gladly
accept my advice and try this excellent and
inexpensive recipe for the complexion. Any
chemist will mix it up for you, and it is
made up from 2oz. rosewater, 1 dram tinc-
ture of benzoin and 2oz. flowers of oxzoin.
M hen well shaken it should be applied with
a sponge and allowed to dry, then dust the
face with a soft cloth. Even if you have
been using expensive creams, powders or
rouge, you will be surprised how much nicer
this lotion will make your complexion and
how delightfully smooth and soft your skin
will become under its influence. It will save
you money, too, because it takes the place, in
your daily toilet, of the best cream, powder
or rouge you can obtain, and the cost is com-
paratively small.—Advt.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FE.SQ (Sb CQ. LIMITED, Sydney,
Why
“Fx. & R.”
Ring's?
2 Pine Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum.
£l5.
5 Fine Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum.
£l2/12/-
3 Pine Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum.
£l4.
Because of their surprising value.
Because of their , super-excellence.
Because the lower grades of gems 'are not stocked.
Because superlative expresses our only quality.
Because they are made on the premises.
Because there are no intermediate profits.
Fairfax § Roberts Ltd
Plain Figures. Cash only.
Because we are sole agents for one of Amsterdam s
largest and oldest diamond cutters.
Because all our rings are set in pure platinum
ami 18-carat gold.
Because every 'newest design is at once shown.
Because our prices are lower than in London.
Because there is no duty on loose gems.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 5, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
Think of it! Five pounds a minute!
That’s the bill the British Red Cross foots
for sick and wounded. Our men get their
bit; and the little countries such as Servia
and Montenegro hold out pitiful hands for
more. _ So N. S. Wales is to be asked to
replenish the stocking of the greatest war-
relief organisation the world has ever known.
To make “Our Day”—November 30—a
scintillating success a crowded meeting was
held at Government House. Speaker Cohen,
quiet and forceful, opened with an appeal
that warmed up our Best People. Joe
Cook had to scamper off elsewhere, and ex-
Acting Premier Fuller was tip-country.
Hence the useful Cohen in their stead.
J. O. Fairfax having further stated the
case, the sensation of the afternoon, one of
the most eloquent appeals this town has
heard on behalf of the wounded, was made
by Miss Henderson, sister of the naval
skipper who used to be in charge of Garden
Island. Hankies were surreptitiously used
to dab eyelids as this star orator tracked
the blood-stained trail with the British Red
Cross. Speaking as an Englishwoman who
had once wondered at the typical Austra-
lian’s absorption in his own country, she
lightly flicked the “shoddy” class" that
wants to be re-made English. If a collec-
tion had been taken up after this address
there would have been a glittering re-
sult, for the ballroom was full of money.
Mrs. Mackinnon also took the floor, with
Russell French (who admitted he was beaten
by the feminine Demosthenes) on her heels.
Long and loud the trumpets sounded, and
then Education Minister James set off with
the accomplished aviator Stutt on a flight to
Melbourne. But being a politician, with
constituents to flatter and flutter and im-
press, he had of course to alight at Goul-
burn. That was the end of it so far as
Augustus James was concerned. In re-
ascending the ’plane damaged one of its
wings; and the politician took off his
mummy-wrappings and crept away by train.
At the King’s Hall, where the Tlieoso-
pliists’ high priestess. Mrs. Annie Besant,
looks down from a big canvas on the wall,
Consul-General Shimizu and his little lady
welcomed a throng of visitors the other
night. The flowers—always a decorative
feature when Japan passes the teacups—
were red and white. With the national
colors were twined the Union Jack and the
emblem of the Rising Sun. A rear-admiral
and other naval officers were the guests of
honor. They stood covered with a blaze
of decorations, a glittering wall of naval
uniforms, while the company filed in and
pecked, so to speak, at any outstretched
hands. Small tables abloom dotted the hall
with islands of food. Miss Chalmers made
the piano tinkle, Ella Caspers sang, and
loxall of the Consulate, the owner of a
melodious voice, startled the echoes with the
national anthem of the Chrysanthemum Isles.
Mrs. Shimizu was frocked in silver lace fine
as hoar frost.
Died, after months of bad health, Mrs.
Douglas Mackenzie, widow of the old colonel
who used to scintillate with anecdotes in
Sydney’s Victoria Barracks. That was in
the booming days of peace, long ago, when
a senior artillery-officer’s evening duties were
to curl his feet under the mess dining-table.
Mrs. Mac. in those halcyon years was the
clever, managing mother, not only of her own
brood, but of the regiment. Her capable
hands—she was president of the then Per-
manent Soldiers’ Wives Beague—cut out
and stitched stacks of garments for the
Eight Infantry, and her place was never
filled as the unofficial commanding-officer of
Mrs. Gunner and her babies. Mrs. Macken-
zie, a daughter of the late ,T. B. Suttor, of
Bathurst, died in Victoria, at her. daughter’s
home, Rupertswood.
A very suave and smiling gentleman. S.
T. De Goes, one of this country’s leading
authorities on cookery, returned to Sydney
last week. Formerly Consul, his labors
have been rewarded by his Government. He
is now Consul-General for Australia. Mr.
I)e Goes has been spending a holiday in
Sweden, which he represents, and he comes
back loaded with figures to fire off at any
suggestion that Sweden is more friendly to
the German than it should be. For himself
he has moulted tfie “von” which he carried
in the list of Consuls prior to 1914.
Genial Captain Shardlow, who died sud-
denly of heart failure last week, was re-
lated fo the Mackenzie clan which has lived
long in the land. Mrs. Alex. Mackenzie, of
Bondi, who died a couple of weeks ago, aged
SB, remembered Sydney as a youngish sea-
port town. The old captain at one time com-
manded the fast and favorite clipper ship
Macquarie.
Several well-known Sydney folk have
lately got back to home and summer. Mrs.
J. Toohey, of Wahroonga, who has been
war-working in England; Mrs. Ward-Macken
(she was a Foy), who ran a rest-house for
Australian soldiers near London at her own
expense; Mrs. Clarence Bridge, who has
been in India seeing her two warrior sons;
Captain Lindsay Browne and his bride —
these were not all on the same boat, but
arrived within the same 4S hours.
Dr. Gother Robert Carlisle Clarke, who
died in France lately, was a grandson of
that Captain Gother Mann, an engineer offi-
cer, who was one of the first to pitch a
wigwam in Woolwich last century, and
called the suburb after the engineers’ depot
where he had been trained in England.
Clarke was an old boy of the North Shore
Grammar, and took his medical degree 15
years ago at Sydney Uni., where he was a
crack cricketer of his time. lie was using
a stethoscope and growing roses at Wah-
roonga till 1915, when he left Australia with
the Army Medical Corps.
It isn’t so easy to manage quick promo-
tion in the Artillery as in some branches of
the service; but Sep. Rowe is a major of
field-guns at 22. Of course he had advan-
tages. Dad was a colonel, and the boys
breathed a military atmosphere before the
3 7 ounger ones passed into the cadets.
Mayor L. W. Robinson, of Woollahra, a
well-known Sydney solicitor, who took a
more direct way of settling Fritz than by
presiding over win-the-war meetings, has
been seriously mauled in the recent fighting,
having lost a fore-arm. He was a sergeant
with the field guns.
“L’Aiglon,” with Kathlene Macdonell as
the Eaglet, filled Her Majesty’s, on Satur-
day. The patient gallery-girls had camped
for hours outside the gates of the temple,
and thereafter their vociferous applause, as
usual, drowned the occasional silence of the
critical. Marie Louise (Gertrude Boswell
in the part) is a sumptuous figure with
the Austrian’s traditional reddish-amber
locks and a much more handsome face and
arm than that fat and fickle royalty is
credited with. To Plumpton Wilson, the
Austrian Emperor, goes the tailor’s bun. His
entrance in the tight-fitting garb of the
period, of a brilliant purple hue, put the
satin tail of Louise out of joint. Many
conventional first-nighters were in Mel-
bourne., but the Kelso King duet, with Gen-
eral Finn and his lady, and a score or two
of well-known coiffures, were in the stalls.
Maggie Moore (Mrs. 11. R. Roberts)
hurried round to Ivathlene’s dressing-room
after the show, and kissed her with resound-
ing enthusiasm. The Eaglet’s elegant mother
beamed over a cartload of blooms.
Ruth Beale, lion,
sec. of the National
Economy Exhibition,
and one of this city’s
best-informed women
on industrial affairs,
gives you a ppnsive
look just here.
Things dry as old
bones to most of her
sex take on pink
flesh in the hands of
this forceful woman.
Her b rain holds
statistics on the
work and wages
problem like Miss
Fluffytop’s holds
dates of coming
frivols. She is the
. terror of the badly-
informed woman who may address a meet-
ing before her; and even seasoned speakers,
who often rely on the shortness of the pub-
lic memory, cling to their notes if this domi-
nant industrial priestess is lying in wait.
There is to be a Women’s Exhibition in the
Town Hall on November 14 ; and Ituth is
lion. sec. With her as organiser is Grace
Burrows, who can sit back while fluent Ruth
pours economic facts over the firm that is
asked to help the show with an exhibit —-
especially if it has something to do with the
saving of infant life in which she is im-
mersed. The handsome lady is a daughter
of manufacturer Octavius Beale.
The Hospice matinee at the Tivoli last
week was an unqualified success. Josephine
Marks, who gathered £7O worth of advts. for
the programme, deserves to be mentioned in
the rush.
At St. James’s Church the other eve
Eileen Harte —daddy is Major A. E. Harte,
of Queensland —was transferred to Lieut.
Alec Crystal, a returned soldier, and, by the
way, a station-owner who “belongs’’ near
Wellington (N.S.W.). Crimson and white,
the ’groom’s battalion colors, decked the pro-
ceedings. The bride inherits her mother’s
looks, and she was a Bananaland belle.
The girl with the
ropes of black hair in
this little picture is
Lilian Mitchell, a
Sydney soprano—
one of Andrew
Black’s old pupils—
who recently came
back from London.
War broke out when
she was on the way
to England. But,
though much dis-
turbed, she kept to
her plans. Mrs.
Alan Carroll helped
and took her under
her wing. For three
years she worked
hard, with the boom
of aircraft guns as a
frequent accompaniment. Part of the time
Allan Gill, who trains many embryo stars,
was in charge. In the intervals she sang for
wounded Australian soldiers, and accepted
occasional engagements in the Fog. Though
she was chosen as the soprano at Clara
Butt’s big concert at Epsom—there were
3500 soldiers present—and starred as the
Australian singer at a Queen’s Hall affair,
with Ben Davies and Margaret Cooper on
the programme, Lilian is happy to be home
in Sydney. “Australians can’t know how
well off they are, unless they’ve lived through
the strain of wartime in London,” she says.
“My nerves began to give way—l have seen
women and children killed by bombs within
a few feet of where I stood —and I got too
homesick for words.” Before discovering
she had a voice Lilian was the pet oars-
woman of the Western Suburbs Ladies’
Rowing Club. Its first craft, built and
launched a few years ago, was called after
her —the Lilian Mitchell.
The Maoriland Government Agent here,
the energetic Blow, can at last lift his head
above the cables and letters that came down
in a recent shower. Over 900 Maorilanders
were stuck fast in Sydney, the poorer ones
stranded, owing to the shipping strike. Some
of them, after saving up to bring the missus
for a three-weeks’ holiday, had to find the
cash for 10 weeks’ board. Others were so
badly mauled by the wolf that the M.L.
Agency had a strenuous time acting as official
next-of-kin.
Mrs. Dunlop Jackson, a big-hearted Aus-
tralian^—she was formerly Miss Dempster—
died in London a few weeks back. The
widow of-Captain Jackson, R.N.R., who was
lost at sea years ago, the war brought her
into great prominence amongst our lonely
soldiers in England. She kept the home fires
burning under grey wintry skies for lots of
weary convalescents in the Big Fog.
After reading so many apparently reliable
yarns about surgeon Fiaschi’s chances of
doing fine work in France, it was surprising
to hear that he didn’t get there after all.
So his lancet was unsheathed on other
Fronts. After the war many screeds will
be written of the brilliant men who have
been bumped by unseen forces. And as
many about stupid men and worse who re-
mained unbumped.
Chatswood has a Y.A.D. girl brigade
which bubbles with patriotism under the
smallest commandant in the State. She’s
the little damsel, Miss Dinliam, who, with
a hefty Amazon band, organised a Red Cross
Hallowe’en fair on the local cricket ground
last week. But the rain-soaked oval was
slushy grass approached by very wet mud.
The witches hurriedly gathered up their
goods under cover, dispensed tea and sold
some of the perishables. Boy scouts in
attendance slithered gaily over the wet land-
scape, and a military band from Liverpool
cheered the spoilt party. Mrs. John Mackay,
representing the Red Cross, went from
Ivimbilli to open the affair. But the gate
was left ajar, and the witches’ broomsticks
folded away for a fine day.
Donald Nettleton, only surviving son (a
brother was killed at Gallipoli) of the late
Sam Aettleton and Mrs. Nettleton, of War-
rawee, has persuaded charming Alice Purser
to accept a diamond ring. She’s the prettv
daughter of Dr. Cecil Purser, and hasn’t
recorded her first vote yet. The lucky voting
man is head of the big Nettleton, Son and
C o. firm, with interests in Sydney and Bris-
bane.
Artist Julian Ashton for once admits he
isn t feeling very bright. A fine son—his
youngest—has just been killed in France.
Afteg two and a half years on service he met
the fatal bullet in October. After a pre-
vious damage a cosy billet was given him
m England as a convalescent. But he wrote
out. I can't stay here—every man is
wanted at the Front—and I’ m o ff to Franr.
again. Don’t worry about me, Dad—T’,
sure to pull through all right.” That W,!
came the day after dad had a cable - “KillpH
instantaneously, in action.” Before leavin’
on his last journey across the Channel voum!
Ashton married an English nursing sister S
Sister Harvey, who left on active service
some time ago, has annexed a Right Ilever
end. He’s the youngish Bishop of Sarawak'
The engagement happened on the Mooltan—
now in Davy Jones’s locker— and shipboard
society seethed with excitement. Sistpr
Harvey w-as trained, by the way, in West
Maitland. The wedding-cake will be cut at
Christmas. Then home to Borneo and the
heathen.
Marjorie Innes-Noad, who works for Bill
jim at the Anzac Buffet in old London
town, has been co-organiser of a great
matinee on the Buffet’s behalf. Inez Ben-
susan was her partner. The show was
booked for the Victoria Palace and was to be
an Australian pageant in which Lily Bray-
ton was to figure as England, Ada Crosslev
as Australia, and Rosina Buckman as Maori-
land, with Madge Titheridge and Ivy Shil-
ling adding their brightness. The wily co-
organisers were, when the last mails left
angling for Julius Knight to take charge of
the production.
An old friend, marooned in Italy since
fatal 1914. sends a programme of a salon
concert, with a comment on one of the per-
formers—“a fine contralto and a charming
girl.” She is “Signorina Irene O’Brien,” a
daughter of Dr. O’Brien, of Hay, formerly of
Melbourne. She, too, is kept in foreign
parts by the submarines.
Donald “Pannikin” Fraser, burliest, busi-
est Inspector of Schools, has found that bat-
tling for a hundred rights ami against a
thousand varied wrongs is a wearing busi-
ness ; and at last he has had to take six
months’ sick leave. I don’t know exactly
how many juniors there are in the Depart-
ment; but they will all wish their champion
a quick and complete recovery.
Eliot Gruner, wdio promises to be one of
Australia’s greatest landscape painters, has
been wrestling with a divided duty for over
two years. The only son of his mother, he is
now fixing up the home nest, and will get
into khaki as soon as the forthcoming
Society of Artists’ show is over. It is dated
the first fortnight in December.
The sth Artillery Depot—York and
Erskine streets —will be plunged in a sale
of work on November 16. Mrs. George
Fuller will open the event. Money raised
will be cabled to the other side to buy
Christmas duff, etc., for the sth gunners.
Prior to their departure for the Cup local
Society drank tea together in smart hostels.
But the Flemington carnival has been over-
shadowed by the war loan and other painful
duties.
Black-and-white artist Harry Julius, just
back from U.S.A. with wife and youngster,
chats of ’Murka’s fine army in the making.
He was in Fifth Avenue, N’York, when one
little lot. 25,000 strong, marcheid through.
That’s the scene the Sydney public has been
cheering on the films. They’re lean, well-set
up men, clean-shaven, a good deal like ours,
though their hats are more like the Maori-
lander’s. And. according to Julius, they’re
cocksure of finishing the job. The day after
those 25,000 stalwarts had marched through
N’York, that city published a British casu-
alty list. In one little engagement as many
had been put out of action as there were
Sammies in the jaunty procession.
Sydney -war-correspondent Martin Dono-
hoe w T as in Russia when the roof fell in.
He has been touring that amazing Land of
Revolution, and addressing thousands of
Russian soldiers on the Allies’ cause. He
enjoyed the task. So did they. The Aus-
tralian, however, found it embarrassing to
be kissed by bearded Generals as a sign of
their appreciation.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


A SUGGESTION
for a
Christmas Gift.
BECHSTEIN.
THESE WELL-KNOWN PIANOS
have been converted into
Player Pianos
and are giving the utmost
satisfaction. We will be glad
to give you the names and
addresses of the owners of these
instruments, as well as many
others who have had their
silent pianos converted.
Mr. G. H. HORTON,
Factory Manager.
L 3
■ -
J.
***<*?S
'V;
Ni.
STITCHEL,
LIPP.
The
Player Action
can be inserted in your upright
or grand piano, and understand
every instrument is fully
guaranteed.
Sold by over 1000 representatives
in the United States of America
alone, which fact speaks for itself.
75he
PLAYER PIANO.
THE PLAYER WITH A SOUL.
THREE INDISPUTABLE FACTS.
♦
Easiest to Pedal.
Easiest to Play.
Cannot be detected from the
piano played by hand.
IMPORTANT.
The inventor of this world-famous instrument has in the latest 1917
MODELS (a huge shipment of which has just arrived) eliminated the wind
chest, thereby giving the player 50 per cent, greater repetition with one-
third of the amount of pumping, and at the same time has so simplified and
perfected the mechanism that it enables him to give a 10 YEARS’
FACTORY GUARANTEE, which we pass on to our purchasers. It has
the lightest and smoothest air-motor ever designed, and is practically
frictionless, with indestructible rotating metal valves instead of the usual
cumbersome wooden slides ; and, in addition, has a transposing device which
enables you to play a song accompaniment in any key to suit any voice.
YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF TO TEST OUR STATEMENTS.
IT’S THE LATEST AND BEST.
We also stock the famous Gulbransen and Dickinson Pianos.
If unable to call, send for catalogues (posted free).
CASH OR TERMS—£S DOWN AND SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
E. F. WILKS CO. LTD.
Macdonell House, 321 PITT STREET (Next to y.m.c.aj, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street).
FACTORY: CORNER RENT STREET and ALBION PLACE.
Tel.: Showroom, City 10752. Factory, City 1144.
Newcastle Representative: A. COHEN, Piano Warehouse, Maitland Road, Hamilton.


'1 -A
m
■ • •
V-" :
v.
Made specially for Farmer’s from the purest
ingredients, and under the most hygienic
conditions.
ESTABLISHED 77 YEARS.
r**
armor
Delicious Sweets
Delectable, wholesome and sustain-
ing are these delicious Chocolates,
daintily packed in Brown Boxes
and tied with ribbon. In 4 sizes.
Prices: 2/6, 4/9, 10/6 and
17/6 Box.
Also Special “Pink” and “Blue”
Boxes Assorted Chocolates, Creams,
Fondants, etc., in two sizes.
Prices: 5/6 and 8/6 Box.
PARMER’S CHOCOLATE
CHERRIES, covered with a
rich cream and Chocolate. Daintily
boxed.
Price: 3/- Box.
We Pay Carriage.
Meltoman
I ▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
{specialties
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD ,
Barrack St., Sydney:
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN @ SONS LONDON
OVER « THE • WORLD
Feeling
Delightfully Cool
—Even in the
Dog Days.
Maybe you are looking forward with
misgiving to another sweltering Summer
in the City.
You will find comfort in a Summer
Suit from
BUCKLEY’S
This Suit in “Florida Cloth,” an
ideal fabric for business or holiday
wear. In all sizes, in attractive pat-
terns.
Price
When you order by Mail give your
height, chest and waist measurements
over vest.
We like you to know that you are
guaranteed “money back if not satis-
fied” when you place a postal order with
Buckley’s.
Melbourne’s Premier Store
BUCKLEY « NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, November 5, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Luck gave the Derby a fine hot day that
brought out parasols, flimsy frocks, bees,
butterflies and all the pansy blooms in the
lawn flower-beds. So far as gowns are cap-
eerned, it was as rich as any Derby of the
pre-war period. A girl in a cream serge suit
and an embroidered orange silk hat returned
thanks for the whole Sisterhood of Best
Dressers. “Thank goodness for a bright
day!” she said. “If you don't wear your
new dress at Flemington, you never get a
chance to show it anywhere.” Even the
small-hat devotees came out under shady
cartwheel lids this time. Melba’s daughter-
in-law, Mrs. Armstrong, bloomed beneath a
huge black-satin top with green jade hat-
pins. Marie Tempest had a lace-draped
covering to shade her eyes. Mrs. Sam
Mackay supported a big straw mushroom.
The Ranee (it is said that her husband
selects all her clothes and hats) looked very
well in putty-grey straw with feathers on
top. She wore the new “choker” of navy
tulle hitched up behind her back hair. Mrs.
Arnold Westley wore the cutest blue ribbon
tying on her hat behind one ear. (Her
ears, by the way, were loaded with huge
gold ear-rings.) The crowd was so dense
that only hats and shoulders were visible.
Mrs. Tom White, just back from a country
jaunt, wore navy blue and a slightly sun-
bronzed complexion. Mrs. Leslie Stuart, in
black-and-white chiffon, chaperoned a daugh-
ter of the Philip Mortons. Mrs. Jack Stern-
berg, in pale pink and blue, had a Shepherd
girl with her. The Shepherds rejoiced
greatly over their Lingle.
Bachelor Dr. Nihill had a big lunch
party—mostly girls. The Manifolds,
Mackays, Armstrongs and Buessts hosted
other parties under the elms. Mrs. Eric
Connolly spread flares of white crepe de
chine etched in black. Mrs. Etheridge, with
recent good news of her wounded son in
France, beamed under a hat decorated with
a huge gold dragon-fly. The Maoriland
Steads had a win in the first race. Mrs.
Stead wore ivory-white cloth. Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald looked like a magpie, with slen-
der grey-booted ankles and a black-and-
white dress. Alex. Gillespie led a large
party of women to tea. Mrs. Gillespie
wore pink and a Dolly Varden hat. Mrs.
Barry Thompson was in brown. Mrs.
Dick Hawker (Adelaide) was among the
tailored. Mrs. Spencer Brunton spread
lace and chiffon.
The Spencer Bruntons, over from Sydney,
made a gala-week of the interval between
Caulfield and Flemington. They gathered
together the other big millers and banqueted
them, took a hundred or two on a motor-trip
through Ilealesville, and had various dinner
and theatre parties.
Some of the Cup visitors. The Maoriland
Wilfred and Gerald Steads with their hand-
some wives. Jimmie Nott Osborne without
his Maud. John Spencer Brunton and his
upstanding popular wife. The Rajah, the
Ranee and her pearls. Steenie Osborne, who
owns half of Bronzetti, and his kinsman
Valentine Osborne with his dimpled little
wife. Coal-baron John Brown, with more
than eighteenpence. Philip Morton and a
pretty daughter without her brilliant mother.
King-Salter, of Cockatoo Dock. Major Fred
Osborne, purple with military enthusiasm
and just fitting his uniform. Pauline Cur-
ran, a Tasmanian belle with an Apple Island
complexion. Bootman John Hunter, from
Sydney. Dr. and Mrs. Allan Newton (Adel-
aide). The Alma Bakers, from the ’Arbor.
Natty little Irish Colonel Peacock, who
knows a good horse when he sees one. Smil-
ing, chubby, optimistic Sam Hordern. Not
to mention the Best People of Mirboo North
and Bungaree.
Willie Bayles, brother of Norman, is back
from England, where he did duty as a special
constable at Buckingham Palace. This had
a great effect on the Toorakese at the wel-
come home hostessed by Mrs. Bullivant last
week.
The Sam Mackays gave a party at the
Quamby to welcome the Hughes pair from
Sydney and the squatting Grubbs from the
Apple Island.
Dr. Cully is busy curing Muriel North’s
“nerves.” Muriel, left behind by auntie
Forrest, wears an effective pale droop and
gets a lot of comfort out of having her hand
held sympathetically by feminine friends. At
tea parties she has only to murmur, “Feel
how cold my hand is—it is all nerves!” and
she has the attention of the table at once.
Governor Stanley and his little lady
opened the Rose Show together last week,
and had nearly as much fun as the G.-G.
pair had opening the Wild Flowers. Alister
Clarke came in for a big share of congratu-
lations. He grows roses and every other
flower at the big estate beyond Broad-
meadows. Mrs. Alister roams about the
garden and holds converse with the not-so-
wild birds that come in flocks to her whistle.
The Ilennessys did their last Gaud
Mayoral job when they opened the Amelia
Brascli memorial at the Austin Hospital
foi Incurables. The memorial is a fine
building called the Zeltner Hall, and will be
used for the entertainment of the inmates
of the Heidelberg hospital.
Mrs. Peter, from the squattage on the
Murray, is taking life easy in the company
of some lovely gowns after an appalling fight
with mice. It will take more than one mouse
to scare an Australian woman after this
plague. Mrs. Peter acted as the station cook
through the trouble, and had to keep every
pot and pan in a separate box as carefully as
she would care for her Paris hats, Mary
Ann won’t go to the country just now. And
you can’t find her in the city. I’m afraid
the poor thing is lost.
The Gillespies, who have milled flour in
this city for many years, have shifted the
burden of management to the shoulders of a
syndicate which has taken over the big
mills, the Gillespies retaining an interest.
Father Gillespie is an old man now, and the
two sons are out after other fish.
While at Bendigo last week, Governor
Stanley visited the studio of Marion .Tones
and gazed admiringly at some of the young
artist’s paintings. Amongst the exhibits were
portraits of ex-Mayor Beebe and S. H.
McGowan, president of the local Agricul-
tural Society. Marion is a native of Bendigo
and studied at the National Gallery, Mel-
bourne.
Lady Helen, the Stanley dame, niece Doris
Blackwood. Genthelp Haskett-Smith and a
brace of small Stanleys filled a fecial pen at
Melbourne Grammar sports on Friday after-
noon. All the Best People were present, and
her Ex. sat in black draperies under the first
really becoming hat she has aired in Aus-
tralia.
The suburban Red Crossers are toiling like
bees and ants preparing a show of Christmas
work. Mrs. Raltho, of Fernhurst. Kew,
has lent house and grounds to the Kew
Crossers for December 1, and every woman
who wants something for the Santa Claus
season should take a few shillings or pounds.
Mrs. Wischer is secretary.
Tw t o personages have just hopped off Tas-
mania towards Japan—Mrs. L. A. S. Mande-
ville. who is related to the G.-G. and her
daughter. Mrs. P. M. Watson, whose hus-
band is Rritish Consul at Ajaccio, Corsica.
Whilst in Japan they will yarn with a
cousin, Count Charles Bentinck, who is
attached by redtape to the British Embassy
at Tokio. Then, submarines permitting, they
will move on to Vancouver.
Adelaide’s donation:
On Saturday the Commercial Travellers set them-
selves, by personal appeals, a street collection and
a carnival at the Adelaide Oval, to add £5OOO to
the Army Nurses Fund. The weather was dead
against the compliment. It was wet, squally and
cold, but nobody took any notice of that, and there
will be a good deal more than £5OOO in the clean-
up. During the afternoon the Governor presented
some military decorations, among them the D.C.M.
to Acting-Sergeant E. L. C. Hodge.
Two old identities passed on during the week—
Matthew Rankine, of Strathalbyn, and E. J.
French, of Mount Gambier. Mr. French was the
son of the late Capt. E. French, who arrived at
Glenelg, in ’37, with 300 immigrants. He settled
at Port Adelaide 12 years later. In 1860, when
Port Mac Donnell was declared a port and big
things were expected of it, he established an agency
there and in one wonderful year £lO,OOO was paid
in Customs due by French’s firm alone. Now,
unless you were warned, you would pass the port
without noticing it.
Prince Alfred’s Old Collegians have elected as their
new president A. A. L. Rowley, w’ho has also just
been appointed hon. director of the War Savings
Committee, a billet in which he will find his 20
years’ banking experience useful. He was a member
of the first inter-State lacrosse team that visited
Melbourne in ’BB.
Miss Annie Hornabrook will be a candidate at the
municipal elections, with the Women’s Non-Party
Association as her bottle-holder. She has done no
end of useful work, particularly in connection with
child welfare; but the party machine has captured
municipal politics, and what is useful work if it
hasn’t a party stamp?
Dr. Jefferis has resigned his seat on the Uni.
Council. He was a member of the original Council
in ’74.
Simpson Newland, one of the hardest workers for
the River Murray League, and who preserved a good
deal of the early history of the State in his “Paving
the Way,” has just enjoyed his 82nd birthday. He
has been in S.A. since ’39.
Miss Edith Aird, one of our women writers, has
been praised for her playlet, “Wanted, a Baby.” It
was written to bring in money' for patriotic funds,
and made its debut, with a purely feminine cast, in
some of the suburbs. Later, with an added act, it
was staged at the Queen’s Hall. The critics are
urging Miss Aird to try her hand again.
Ex-Premier Vaughan left on Saturday for U.S.A.
and possibly Canada. He means to be back in time
for the elections, due at the end of March —unless
the Government decides to prolong the life of this
Parliament.
Capt. Harry Cuming, an old Grammar
boy, has now a bar to his Military Cross,
bearing out “Birdy’s” prophecy when he
handed out the first award and a pat on the
back. The young warrior—he is 29 —is a
son of James’ Cuming, of Cuming, Smith and
Co. He got his commission in 1915. and
most of his service has been on the staff of
the Eighth Brigade.
Pride shines above the beard of Dr. Mar-
shall, of Scots’ Church, on account of the
D.S.O. just won by his son Norman, now
lieut.-colonel. Norman, who joined the
Anzac Push as a sergeant-major, is 51, and
his honors include several “mentions” and
the M.C., which he secured just before get-
ting his commission on Gallipoli. Foot-
baller, rower and boxer, he is as tough as
nails. A brother recently gained his first
star in the Artillery.
There was an impressive service in St.
Paul’s Cathedral last week in memory of
Arthur (“Boy”) Charlwood, a much-loved
youngster of 19 who gave his life in France.
He was a chorister at St. Paul’s in his
earlier youth. The young soldier was a
nephew of Miss Charlwood, a prominent
Melbourne ptnwoman.
Frank Brown, half-brother of playwright
Louis Esson and a persistent traveller in
the lonely places of the Northern Territory,
is amongst the artillery reinforcements who
have their kits ready to go aboard at any
moment.
The Auburn Macrows are flying their very
best flag in honor of son Billy, who has just
captured a Military Cross, lie was on leave
in London just recently, and was able to ex-
hibit his treasure to sister Zoe, who is still
doing V.A.D. work there.
“Char” Crespin, who has been at the
war almost since the beginning, is being
shipped home among the invalided. He has
lost his hearing but has retained his good
spirits. Char was a curly-lmired Sassiety
young man in pre-war days and the first of
the local darlings to be made use of as a
gentlielp.
Poet-artist Hugh McCrae will make his
first appearance on the professional stage in
his native land (he was with Granville
Barker for a time in America) in lan Mac-
laren’s production of “Hamlet,” at the
King’s. Ilughie took part in a repertory
one-acter a week or two ago, and his tall
figure almost obscured the plot—that is, if
repertory plays have anything so common-
place as a plot.
Addie Pnnkhurst, who is still living the
simple and not-too-strenuous life at Pent-
ridge, has blossomed forth as a dramatist,
with “Betrayed, a Tragedy,” which has been
printed under Socialist auspices. The be-
trayal mentioned in the title is not the sort
that takes place in a Palace melodrama, the
victim in this instance being a fictitious
country which has the of being
Ireland.
Cyril Maude had a great house for his
finish in “Caste” at Her Majesty’s last Fri-
day. The wealth and winsomeness present
made it like a first night, but there was also
a large quantity of the simple and old-
fashioned who came to snivel furtively over
favorite scenes. Mrs. Tallis had her’ usual
box, and next door was the Ranee. Stalls
and d.c. were snrinkled with politicians.
Boyd, M.H.R., yawned steadily in a corner
near the orchestra, and Assistant-Minister
Groom made an unexpected appearance in
a lower box. The Vere de Vere features of
Jowett, the new member for the Grampians,
were among the classic profiles near by.
Cyril Maude said good-bye in a procession
of bows across the stage and an impromptu
speech that had all the air of having been
prepared at leisure. Maude’s greatest regret
was that he would miss the Melbourne Cup.
Yet many who will see the race will wish
they had been Maude when the numbers
whiz up.
Stella Payter, niece of actor George
Bryant, who is at present with the Cyril
Maude eo., is off to ’Frisco as soon as the
Maoriland tour is over. Cyril has promised
to take her with his American co. until she
finds her feet in Wilsonland.
Bertha, daughter of Colonel Ballenger, has
apparently made good on the ’Murkan stage.
Anyhow, the young woman has cabled dad,
‘Don’t need any more money.” Bertha
and Dorothy Cumming set off hand-in-hand
in the hunt for fame. They flatted together
in New York and shared each other's earlv
disappointments. Dorothy came back i y
Australia with Maude, and now Bertha 2
playing a lead in an American 18
of “The Man Who Stayed at IlJ m !^ Uetlon
“Niobe,” which the Broughs exploited of
old, will be given at The Playhouse 0 ™
Saturday November 24, by amateur" with
Harry Ihll directing, to help the YMO a
war appeal. '
A packed Derby-night house witnessed
You re in Love” at Her Majesty’s. The
Tallises and Minnie Everett were in H,
managerial pen and Mrs. Geoff. Syme hZ
a party in the opposite box. Mrs Maim
Genera! Monash and daughter Bertha were
in the d.c., and so was our most beloved
tenor, rather pale and drooping p r , n
spicuous in the stalls were Evelyn Muret-
McEvoy and Pressy Preston, accompanied
by the genial Burnett, who has made him
self agreeable at almost every place of note
between the U.S.A. and Menzies’ The
audience, which had evidently had a bit on
Biplane, was in excellent humor, though
the theatre was like an oven, and when
Maud Fane took to flirting in her sleep from
a swinging boom above the stalls, those in
the front seats entered uproariously into the
fun of hunting her slipper.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


‘ \
/j
i .*t~ST4
■-V%
n
\k.
i
n'nilWiiii!Wi^imm , rn
tf»M>»>»m tn i ihmum iti ii milt»»ii i'i t iTnmum > i fmi y~i nn i»i fn n t
!l|HimiUi)l)in;t|i!im!iiiiun)MP>iiii
iKHii n*
5
y 2
8
*J:
E
2 3
H
2 5
vJMi
2
Ov
<fVh
> ■
v
£
£l3 ,
A'III Li
7T
V:
s®
1
2
m
w jD
[UP?-
5%
m
WM.
m.
wz
£2
m
,iii"ilfl| Jff!
r*«
m
m:
li
f/v • “s
Mm
rTT//A
m
IR
■NKIv
SK%V/S
%
5%55
-
=
SK-:-
m
m
3
2
R
ess
ffw
M
1
1
E
**
U/- 12
IPS
r £>Hs&s
w
mSikmM
m
*1
;\il
PS
s^lr
4<f'
i
IW
W)Ti
fv.n.
mm
& 'A 1 '
% f m
a
3
i
-j
*/
ffr «r,
f?>»
>
M
v>;
Miiiiiiii'iTriTinniMiiiimiiiiiHuiiiiiiinnuiiiiiiii'ii^gr^
■ "^,""i",uMi | “.i"“"“ii‘iiiimu
111
m
WJU&t
aWIM
>. ''»/
Swi
i
WE2F=3
HSHIS
gl
=sCE_7
iii i lUiiiiiiuuiii lilllLiiliiilLi Uiiiiii!
Atfe is the Crowning Stage in a series of fermentations. Fermentation means Life. Age dissipates its roughness.
S rounds off its edges, and refines its character, leaving nothing behind but the Rarest Elixir of Life. Dewars
is the Veteran of Stimulants It is ripe for Promotion to your Palate.


■
I
Lake Manapouri , New Zealand.
NEW ZEALAND
Why not visit NEW
ZEALAND, the Wonderland
of the World, and enjoy
A Real Good Holiday?
Special Tourist Excursion
Tickets on Railways,
Pamphlets and full informa-
tion supplied free at
New Zealand Government Offices,
SYDNEY: 14 MOORE STREET.
MELBOURNE: 59 WILLIAM ST.
V
it
m
m
i
I The TOP-NOTCH "Scotch
V"> r •SayWHEH MaoH
1'
(
flbO
HP
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Nobody in Partickler”: “Ornis” (B.
IS/10/’l7) says “that trees of the Leptospermum
genus were called tea-trees because some chump
used the leaves as a substitute for tea is, I think,
moonshine.” The “chump” was Captain Cook, and
you will find what he says in his “Voyage towards
the South Pole and round the World, performed in
the ‘Resolution’ and ‘Adventure,’ 1772-75,” Vol. 1.,
page 100. Speaking of Maoriland, he says: “The
tea plant is a small tree or shrub with five white
petals, or flower-leaves, shaped like those of a rose.
.... The tree sometimes grows to a moderate
height.... The leaves are small, and pointed, like
those of the myrtle. .. . The leaves were used by
many of us as tea, which has a very agreeable
bitter flavor when they are recent, but loses
some of both when they are dried. When the infu-
sion was made strong it proved emetic to some, in
the same manner as green tea.” Plate 22 gives a
picture of a twig of the tree, which is the
manuka of Maoriland, botanically known as
Leptospermum scoparium, and very common in N. S.
Wales. This is the tea-tree of Captain Cook, and
I quote the passage because, although 140 years
have elapsed since the publication of Captain Cook’s
statement and his admirable plate, many people
still persist in refusing to believe that Captain
Cook meant tea when h" said it, and prefer to con-
fuse it with the ti-tree, which is the cabbage-tree
of M.L., and a member of the lily family, and found
in many South Sea islands. The ti-tree has a root
which contains sugar, and the fermentation of the
crushed root, and afterwards the distillation of the
spirit which is formed, has been the cause of
endless trouble in M.L., Norfolk Island, Pitcairn
Island and the islands generally. Men who could
not get grog made it themselves out of the ti-tree,
with results well known to historians and travellers.
The tea-tree and the ti-tree are just about as differ-
ent from each other as they can possibly be. Ti is
a native name, and “Ornis” says “there is no sense
in it.” I do not know sufficient of South Sea
Island languages to say whether there is sense or
not.
“Merrigal”: Though one egg is the cus-
tomary find in a plain turkey’s nest, two needn't cause
excitement. Dr. MacGillivray attributes the variation
to local conditions, having observed on the heavily-
grassed plains bordering the Cloncurry River (Q.) that
two chicks constituted a brood, whereas on our
smaller and lighter clad Western spaces more than
one nipper in the family was a rarity. Thirty years
back 40 or 50 of these birds might be seen in a
day on Merri Merri and Marthaguy pasturages,
while it’s testified that a mob of 1000 was in-
cluded in the stock passings between Hay and
Booligal in 1896. One shot at Marebone (lower
Macquarie) in 1884 by Donald Cameron, of Buddah
Lake (Trangie), weighed 221 b, and that was a chick
in comparison with the 30-pounder that squatter
and amateur birdologist Tom Austin, of Cobbard
(N.S.W.), once potted on his dad’s walk-about in
Victoria.
* * * •
“Montalex” : First and second for venom-
potency, “Mahovir” (B. 27/9/’l7) places one of the
Hydrophidia and the krait. He writes from India.
Well, the estimate I used was made in India, after
careful experimentation. The sea-snakes were not
included; so that, though I cannot identify the
Enhydrina “M.” mentions, I can say nothing about
its claims to first place. But the krait’s poison was,
by the investigation above-mentioned, placed un-
equivocally in the third place assigned to it, not
only by Fayier and other leading authorities, but
by general opinion in the India of my day.
THE NEW BOARDER.
FOREMAN (to landlady ): “Oh, tee'll get along quicker next week—there's a steam navvy
coming along.”
L ANDLADY: “Thank ye, sir, for mentionin' it, and I hope ye'll say a word for me. I've
got a bed or two still impty.”
EXPERT OPINION.
SWEET YOUNG THING: “Why do they call you sailor men tough old salts?”
CAPTAIN HARDCASE : “King Sammy, of the Eatemall Islands, tried some of us.”
“Pharms”: Snake poison exerts its action
on the heart as a powerful depressant, and therefore
there must be employed a heart stimulant, powerful,
speedy and safe. Strychnine fulfils two of these
conditions, but is r.ot safe except in qualified hands.
Brandy, whisky, etc., are good, but are not speedy
enough nor are they very powerful; but aromatic
spirit of ammonia (commonly known as sal volatile)
has lately been proved of great value. It is powerful,
safe, and almost instant in its effects. After liga-
turing and scarifying ' the bite, one to two tea-
spoonsful mixed with two to three teaspoonsful of
water are given and the dose repeated whenever the
pupils of the eyes show signs of contraction. The
eyes must be carefully watched till the patient is
out of danger. Allowance must be made for the
age and condition of patient when reckoning up the
dose. For instance, to an adult who is beginning
to show contraction of the pupils one teaspoon of
the spirit in two of water would be given. If he
is far gone two in two of water. Then the dose
would be regulated by the effect produced—dilution
of the sal volatile to make it weaker or by using
less water to make it stronger. Emphasis must be
laid on the necessity of getting the patient to the
doctor (or vice versa) as soon as he has been bitten.
These directions are essentially first aid and are given
for the benefit of those living some distance from a
medical man.
“Pick”: The ribbon-gum, inquired after
by “Private Room” (B. 27/9/’l7), is so named
because, unlike most eucalypts, the long streamers
of thin bark that dangle from its branches remain
pliant when dry, and may be rolled up like bands
of ribbon. The tree grows in many parts of Aus-
tralia, but only in very open forests. It prefers the
hills that border our plain-lands. Its timber is short-
grained and snappy, and so given to dry-rot and
insect-auger that bushmen give it the go-by except
for firewood.
“E.A.C.”: Of all Australian birds (the
cow, of both sexes, included) the yellow-crested white
cockatoo owns the most penetrating voice. My neighbor
assures me that the boisterous beauties never fail to
give him due notice when raiding his wheat paddock,
which is at least If miles from his home; and it’s
not in a windless valley, either. I think the crow
and Johnny Burra are about equal favorites for a
very bad second. The curlew’s lung-power is only
apparent by reason of the still night air in which he
practises and the retirement to roost of the rest of
the bird orchestra while he does it.
* * * *
“Flam”: The New England (N.S.W.)
blacks, with whom I was well acquainted 50 or
more years ago, never used the coo-ee call, but, as
I remember it, a high-pitched “yarrawondi.” Only
one person as -far as I know ever used the coo-ee
around Armidale. That was my mother —and she
was a Londoner, so perhaps it’s only a cockney veil
after all.
“Captain”: Put into a New Guinea port
recently the auxiliary schooner Lorengau, leaking
badly. Being placed on the slip the sword of a
sword-fish was found to have pierced through
the copper sheathing, six inches of cement, and two
inches of hardwood. The sword had broken off, and
was projecting a foot inside the vessel. Lest this
be dubbed a fish yarn of the deadliest calibre I
enclose photos. At what velocity was the fish hurl-
ing his frame when he bumped?
“Moana” : How’s this for a staple of wool?
Recently at Fort Hardy, D’Urville Island (M.L.), a
full-mouthed Lincoln-Romney wether was captured
after long dodging the musterers. The barber clipped
521 b. of wool off the jumbuck, and when the stuff
was measured the staple was found to be 31in. long.
* * * #
“Machete”: It’s true that the “euro”
kangaroo is a willing scrapper; but most of the
breed, like the curate pugilist in the legend, have to
be forced into it. On one occasion, however, I was
trying to snap a bailed-up grey with a small camera,
and while I was gazing into the “finder” the object
leaped enthusiastically on top of me and a willing
go on the ground was only ended by the two tired
dogs deciding to intervene again. I was nearly as
thorough a wreck as the camera. Another bailed-up
'roo, as the writer dismounted 30 yards away, broke
past the two dogs and came right at me. A revolver
prevented what might have been a regrettable inci-
dent. Again, my dad ran a big “old man” into a
blind corner on Jura station, on the Darling Downs.
The ’roo charged at once, and as the scared horse
wheeled round, jumped on the hindquarters and
grabbed the rider round the body. The 'noddy saw
to it that the pair finished their argument on the
ground. When that was over, dad went home on
foot minus a shirt and a yard of skin. The other
made off to his family serene in the consciousness of
a fight well fought.
“Merrigal” : Here’s my little lot of death-
adder. Two pets, reposing in the Museum at
Sydney, tape respectively 32in. and 354 in. The
latter was a Quirindi (N.S.W.) native.
* * * *
“Lantana” : At Cobargo (N.S.W.) they're
cocking their hats about a Jersey heifer which
recently gave birth to a fully-developed calf. The
mother, which is the property of E. Chegwidden,
and fashionably bred, is only 11 months old. If a
stranger desires to argue with the neighbors that
this isn’t a world’s record he’d better do it by
telegraph.
“W.A.C.” : To quieten a horse while shoe-
ing, harnessing, etc., slap quickly with the palm of
the hand between the gee-gee’s eyes and he will stand
as quiet as Albert the Good’s statue.
(Continued on page 24.)
AFTER DRAFTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Night has fallen, night and darkness,
Night with star and planet splendid;
And the earth lies like a Titan
Wrapt in sleep, with limbs extended.
Rest has stolen on the homestead,
On the long day’s rush and riot,
And no sound of horse or rider
Breaks the soft and dewy quiet.
Yet, like heart-cries
After battle,
Comes the calling, ceaseless calling,
Of the dun and dappled cattle.
Sleep is sweet and sweet is silence,
When the long day’s work is over,
For the toiler and the moiler,
And the rider and the rover.
Not a breeze abroad at night-time
Sets the silken grass aquiver,
And from dewfall on to sunrise
Sleeps the curlew by the river.
Yet no slumber
Anguish smothers;
Hark the calling, fruitless calling,
Of the robbed and stricken mothers!
Oh, how still are plain and river—
How all-sweet, how all-amazing!
By the stars’ march night is numbered—
Rising, setting, zenith-blazing.
Peace has come upon the homestead,
On the long day’s rush and riot;
Only from, the drafted cattle
Comes a note of sad disquiet.
Dun and dappled,
Homed and poley —
They are lowing, lowly lowing,
With a helpless melancholy.
N.S.W
RODERIC QUINN.


ORIENT Cowhide
SUIT CASE
Made by DAVID JONES.
from 32/6.
The ‘Orient’ Suit Case is “made by David Jones’,” of polished
cowhide, on a light but strong steel frame, hand-sewn edges two
sliding nozzle locks, inside straps, strong leather handle. Drill ’lined.
A D.J. standard value, combining good workmanship and material
with moderate price.
Sizes.
20 x 13J x 6 inches
22 x 131 x 6 „
24 x 134 x 6 „
2G x 134 x 6 „
Prices.
32/6
35/-
38/6
42/-
COWHIDE ATTACHE CASE
from 15/6.
'M
Attache Case, “made by David
Jones’,” of best polished cow-
hide, moirette lined, and fitted
with good sliding nozzle locks.
Sizes.
12 xlO x 4 inches
14 xlO x 4 „
10x10x4 „
18 xlO x 4 ~
Prices.
15/6
18/6
21/-
23/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
TUSSORETTE “NOTHING” SUITS
These famous 3-Garment Washing Suits are made
by and obtainable only from The Leviathan.
“Nothing” Suits are as cool as ocean breezes.
They are so light in weight as to give you a feeling
of having “Nothing” of weight on —hence their
name. They are skilfully tailored in the style
shown, from strongly-woven Egyptian Cotton
Tussorettes, and may be had in PLAIN OR
STRIPE DESIGNS, in Biscuit, Straw, or Stone
shades.
Wear a “ Nothing ” Suit and
enjoy Summer comfort
(Suits measuring over 42-inch Chest,
2/6 extra.)
“TUSSORA ” SHIRTS
Buy some of these for wearing with your “Nothing”
Suit. “Tussora” looks just like Tussore Silk, but
wears better by far and retains its good appear-
ance after many washings. Made with Soft-
double Cuffs and Soft-double Collar to match.
Fitted with “SPLIT-SLEEVES” (to give correct
set to cuffs) ; “SLEEVE-LIFTS” (to regulate
sleeve length), and REINFORCED INLAY
FRONTS (to double the life of each shirt).
COMPLETE WITH COLLAR TO
MATCH,
7/6.
(3 for 21/-)
* 9
STRAWBOATERS
Most of our Boaters are fitted with
the famous “Ivy Grip” attachment
which makes them* conform quickly to
the shape of any head.
RUSTIC STRAW BOATERS.—
With 3-inch Crowns and 2-inch
Brims 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6
FINE PEDAL STRAW BOATERS.
With Crowns and 2§in. Brims,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6
COOL PANAMAS.
JAP PANAMAS. —
Extra light and cool; newest
shapes, 2iin. Brims .. 10/6, 12/6
WHITE BLEACH TOYO
PANAMAS 15/6, 17/6
REAL NATIVE PANAMAS.—
Made in South America. The cool-
est and lightest hats that money can
buy 21/-, 30/-, 35/-
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE
LEVIATHAN
Cor. Swanston 8 Bourke Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
HOLDER of THE FREEDOM of THE CITY of LONDON
RECOMMENDS THE USE OF
Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
0 KTmtirmt
K ol J&lit.
njdrt/yx/ cl- W
„.,... —■ _ , * -urriA aJ>Utitttb
UkKo He Si'iceEoue aferuocub auE> uuxEc He 1 <£cuv He .of
\\fiMtn™, GPiAnsi/i*, y 'lhjpfrmti.' itiviE- 2Kaq<n aa£> C&c3t‘.bou.*§><A S(XKpII (ioc4ftC&> oOU6^o£c.6axt.. pc.kcvo
G cuxd io cx<4oxeb cu, xHc book faxyucb He Jlottox. fo He p af
Srcciknuo aW) h£c of (to W) file— <S<vtj of iu, tkc y'f&. of
\kc xexeyx of Edward VII ofUv£ tw He of owl Soxb xvivcxcof He H)ceA of xk
C(fxoc of (l&xiudboxbzxix of Hie /yaxb k<M\ to ilexeuxeto affixed H)cUce> ue \itc (itlauxbc'i of Ikc (i>-uv('MlcHl o
Hie .xwitc v tvj He 6xvtj axeb Vfoa/i cd>ovc&aei)
4
Mr. H. 8. .TENDA X.
It falls to the lot of comparatively few men to have conferred upon them the distinguished honor of the Freedom of the
City of London. Since the outbreak of the war several of our prominent public men have been granted the Freedom of
London. Mr. H. S. Jerdan, the eminent Sydney optician, received the honor some few year's ago, when he brilliantly passed
the examination of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers, the highest degree obtainable in the optical profession.
Knowing that Mr. Jerdan was the holder of the Freedom of the City of London, we sought his permission to have it reproduced,
feeling that many of our readers would like to see such a certificate.
Others who suffer from nerve troubles will be more interested in reading what Mr. Jerdan has to say about lIFAN’S
TONIC NERVE NUTS. Here it is:—
387 George Street, Sydney,
G. W. Hean, Esq., Chemist. August 29, 1917.
Dear Sir, Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts are highly efficacious, and I can thoroughly recommend them for any
form of neurasthenia which most eye sufferers develop.—lours faithfully,
H. S. JERDAN.
MEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS
The Modern Home Remedy for
Headaches
Backache
Neuralgia
Lassitude
Brain Fag
Anaemia
Dyspepsia
Palpitation
Hysteria
Insomnia and other
Neurasthenic
Conditions
Are obtainable from all Leading Chemists and Stores, or by post, from G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing Chemist,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Besides being effective health-builders, HE AN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS are very economical; boxes containing 12
days’ treatment cost only 3/- each, or six boxes for 17/3.


Martin's Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
MEGGITTS
UNSEED OILMEA[
m
MEG
PAR (i
t
VI
<©
4s
\V r
>
X»^j
ft
V
J*
J2L
Cows, Calves and Pigs Do Well on Meggitt’s Oil Meal
TESTIMONY OF SATISFIED FARMERS.
SERIES NO. 7.
cows M pi| 3 ' fnd ß^l^’^ ra S S Y S: ‘VT > nore than P leased with J’our Linseed Oil Meal. The
cows pigs and calves ha\e improved wonderfully and the milk-supplv has almost doubled.”
to a^ r ‘othef L fodder° CKI TH,^ al «iS h ’i? e ii ing ? r River ’ \ ri , tes - “I consider your Linseed Oil Meal superior
greedily Your Meal wants'mdv thrlvln f? wonderfully, the cows’ teats bursting with milk —they eat
g eeunj. lour Meal wants only to become known to command an enormous sale ”
Leave T ? FEED COWS WITH MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
} y ra ion as it is and give 31b. Linseed Meal and 31b. of bran per day, soaked or dry.
From all n ° r ß^ ,pa^'o ularB from Agents : Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R 8. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane;
and Hobart - ri/i/d* Me,bourne : w »" Adams* Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston
and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD.,
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers,
26 King Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“Naina Nucla” : Is it true that male birds
of paradise do not grow their gaudy verdure until
they are too old to be fascinating in the harem ?
The natives round about the Sepik (Kaiserin Aug-
usta) River on the north-west coast of (German)
New Guinea, where the birds are in large num-
bers, definitely' assert that it is so, and that, con-
sequently', it does not help to exterminate the
species when the plumed birds are removed. I
once came on an extraordinary sight near Angoram,
a German station about 70 miles up the‘river,
which lends a suspicion of truth to the above.
There were about 10 hens sitting round in a ring at
the foot of a tree, and in the middle was a magnifi-
cent gentleman cataloguing his various charms. The
ladies merely appeared to be bored.
“O’Regan”: Is there any reliable first-aid
for a poisoned dog? Recently, when rabbiting, my
foxy picked up a bait, and not having any of the
usual remedies handy I was compelled to shoot an
old friend. I was afterwards told that I should have
taken the afflicted by the hind legs and swung
him round for some time, which would have caused
him to vomit the bait. Is there anything in this?
* * * #
“Murkah”: Let recent Abo.-writers who
expressed surprise on the subject glance at this,
quoted, on the authority of the naturalist Humboldt,
by Haeckel, in his “Evolution of Man.” “In a
South American forest he found a solitary settler
whose wife had died in childbirth. The man had
laid the new-born child on his own breast in despair;
and the continuous stimulus of the child’s sucking
movements had revived the activity of the mam-
mary glands. It is possible that nervous suggestion
had some share in it.” Haeckel (no mean authority)
states that such cases have been observed in other
animals.
“E. 8.”: What’s the meaning of this? I
have a Maggie that has laid for three successive
seasons, and on each occasion the eggs have proved
unfertile. I had two birds, which I thought were
a pair; but after two lots of eggs had proved
barren, I introduced another Maggie into the harem,
believing him to be a gentleman. Again, however,
after four weeks’ sitting, the eggs turned out to be
chickless. Does anyone know how to pick the
gentleman bird?
* * * *
“D.F.”: Melbourne Museum has already
16,000 specimens of the stone tools and weapons
used by black brother, but the institution won’t be
satisfied while there are good finds still to be
made. In August it sent A. S. Kenyon out with
H. S. Officer, of Killara station, on the Darling
River, on a motor-trip through w-estern N. S.
Wales. They brought back loads of stone
scrapers and knives, mortars and pestles, the caps
of clay that native widows used to wear as the main
part of their mourning, and lots of other odds and
ends.
* * * *
“D.F.” : According to one Earl, who pub-
lished a book about the Eastern seas in 1839, the
Northern Territory nearly' got a brown patch on it
at a very early stage. Talking about the old settle-
ment at Raffles Bay, which came to a full stop about
1829, he say's that trepang-fishers from the Celebes
discovered the settlers and opened up trade with
them, and that when they came down from Macassar
next season many of them brought their families,
intending to settle in Australia; but finding that
the camp had been broken up they went home
again.
AN HONEST DEALER.
OLD CHARLIE : “The parson’s goin ’ to hold
service at the homestead, Coolum,
We’ll all have to go up and bring our
threepences to put on the plate."
COOLUM : “How much longa plate last year?"
OLD CAHRLIE : “Same as now — threepence.”
COOLUM : “By cripes, he no plurry rogue
likeit butcher and storekeeper, pattern
up price every week. Good phella that!”
CYNICAL.
THE ONE WHO HAD A WIN ON THE LAS RACE ( excitedly ): “What’s that on the
rails?”
THE ONE WHO DIDN'T: “ Can't bloomin’ well tell at this distance whether it's paint or
whitewash.”
“Mark Lane”: I have had a fair experi-
ence of mountains and plain, and I’ll back “wah-hoo”
to distance “coo-ee” every time. It is also less of
a strain vocally. The “hoo” is given as a howd.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: In Australia we used
to blame the indiscriminate ringbarking whenever
there was a decreased rainfall in the district. But in
this part of Argentine there is nothing bigger than
a stunted, semi-occasional shrub like kangaroo
acacia, and the ringbarking theory
doesn’t seem a satisfactory explana-
tion. For the last two or three years
the rain- or rather snowfall in the
Cordillera hereabouts has been practi-
cally nil, although in former years it
averaged about 12ft. level fall. It is
possible to cross over to Chile to-day
by the Uspallata Pass (13,000 ft.)
without treading on snow, and fresh
grapes are being sold in the streets of
Mendoza at 10 cents per kilo, a shade
less than Id. per lb. When you con-
sider that Mendoza is 2000 ft. above
sea-level and about the same parallel
as Sydney, you will understand what
fresh grapes during the last days. of
June mean. Another singular thing
about this amazing change is that for
about a year w'e have felt no earthquakes. For-
merly more or less severe shocks were of fre-
quent occurrence usually once or tu'iee a month.
Now everything has altered, and the average
Mendocino is so scared at the unusual state of
things that he is quite convinced that the day
of reckoning is at hand, and instead of passing
his evenings taking in the latest cinematographic
indecency from Paree, he sits in his ancestral dobe
shack in meditation and prayer awaiting the Wrath
to come.
“Eddyson”: Waddy has a lively recollec-
tion of the man w'ho came back. He arrived at
the Shepherd’s Arms on the Burrumbeet-road on
Wednesday night, and was bewildered to find the
pub a new' color. He had been absent getting-on
for 30 years, but this revolution seemed to stun
him. Then it was broken to him that old Tom
Box no longer kept the Shepherd’s Arms. “What,
ole Tom Box ? Him ? Why, you cud ’ave took a
least of his life!” Old Tom Box had died 10 years
earlier at the ripe age of 87, but Tindle could not
grasp the fact. It seemed altogether unbelievable.
“Ole Tom Box gorn?” he said. “I wanted to see
him pertickler. He’d ’ave remembered me. I stole
a cow of his once. None of yous remember me, ’n’
I don’t remember none of yous. Newcomers to
Waddv, ain’t yeh? Where’s all the ole blokes?
Where’s Johnnie Dodd?” Nobody present had heard
of Johnnie Dodd. “Had that tin house down by
the toll-bar.” Tindle was told there w T as no tin
house and no toll-bar. Nobody could recollect that
there had ever been a toll-bar. The man who came
back looked reproachfully around and ordered him-
self another drink. “You’re havin’ a loand of me,”
he said, “but I’ll see for meself in the mornin’.
I\e come to have a geek at the ole place
I was born in: the palin’ house next to Crad-
dick’s.” Nobody responded. “The house with the
shingle roof,” he continued. “Me mother died
there, an’ me father. 1 was born there, an’ so
was the rest of us, an’ I’ve come back to the ole
place. The other drinkers had ceased to comment;
they were looking at Tindle gravely. They assumed
that he “had weevils.” Coleman ventured to assert
as much. “Weevils in his dough,” said Coleman.
Tindle did not heed him. It was agreed, though,
that Tindle's first daylight view of Waddy would be
worth noting. The party assembled for the event
at seven next morning. Tindle came out, half
dressed, stood in the middle of the road, and gazed
down over the flat where Waddy had been, and where
W addv was not. He was utterly amazed. He
rubbed his eyes and gazed again. ‘‘Why, it’s gorn!”
he gasped. “It’s all gorn—everything, everyone!”
Then he set off almost at a run, like a dog after a
lost scent, peering for landmarks, staring distractedly
at the'empty earth. The little push found him
standing with hopeless eyes, from which came tears.
For many minutes he was silent; then he pointed
a tremulous finger. “Who cut down that tree?” he
said. “Who cut down that pear-tree we used to
climb in? There was a swung to it, ’n’ we used
to swing on it, me V Jane V Dick. Who cut down
that tree? Who done it?” He ceased talking, and
bit back his tears. After a few minutes he spoke
again. “This is bitter,” he said—“bitter. I was
goin’ t’ ’ang myself to that tree!”
“J.R.S.”: An Abo. par (B. 27/9/17)
refers to the omission of the prickly-pear from the
list of vegetables proclaimed as “noxious” within
shires and municipalities in N. S. Wales, and deduces
that the authorities have this pest well in hand.
No. It’s simply because the Prickly Pear Destruc-
tion Act of 1901 is administered by the Lands De-
partment, and the. only say that local government
councils have in the matter is to set a good example
by keeping their roads and streets clear.
* * * »
“John Quill” : Gentlemen of the bush, per-
mit Walter Scott from his “Legend of Montrose” to
prescribe for scorpion bites:—
“Ay, but still, you must remember, my lord," re-
sumed Anderson, “that to cure the bite of a scorpion
you must crush another scorpion on the wound.”
Now you know what to do.
* * * *
“E.W.” : Wynbring, where the East-West
railway is to be officially opened on November 12
(three weeks after through traffic began), is nearly
50 miles beyond the westernmost edge of such settle-
ment as there ever has been in this part of South
Aus. But it was pretty well known to Giles and
other old-time explorers. The surrounding red-soil
plains hold water about as well as a sieve; a man
has been known to ride all day in the rain and to
have to camp without water at night. But at
Wynbring Rock the granite comes to the top. A
bare round patch of it rises above the scrub. Small
as the patch is, all the rain there is in those parts
(not very much at the best of times) runs off, and
there is usually a drop stored up in the holes around
the rock.
* * # *
“E. Brown” : “Paul Tardent” and “Larri-
kin” in their argument about Burenda shearing
tallies are both correct. The tallies mentioned by
them were shorn on different days. On “Tardent's”
day 7328 ewes, principally four-tooth, were shorn by
44 men including four learners (first shed). With
the exception of one rouseabout (“shot”) all hands
went through from start to finish.* After many
years’ experience I consider the team the best I ever
saw. Sheep cut 81b. 12oz. of wool, 122 bales being
pressed, dumped, weighed and branded by four men
and a boy; classed by P. J. Cosgrove, of Geelong;
broker's report on get-up of clip, “All that could be
desired.”
SOMETHING FOR HUBBY TO GO ON
WITH.
WIFE ( rapturously ): “I saw that lovely
Johnson man to-day.”
HUSBAND ( jealously): “Did you shake
hands with the Beast?”
WIFE (hurt): “Yes, and his moustache
pricked frightfully.”
HIS SPLENDID RESISTANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day was very hot indeed,
And steam arose from Billy Wise
Who bore his bulk with laggard speed
The while his thoughts, like butterflies
That toy with flowers in Spring-shine dear
Coquetted with a pot of beer.
He came to Cannon's bar, and there
He stood a moment by the door,
And to his nose the playful air
A tantalising odor bore.
It was the fragrance from a pool
Of malted liquor fresh and cool.
Bill turned to enter. On his wrist
He felt a grip. The parson spoke.
“You promised, William, you’d resist
Temptation,” said the goodly bloke.
“Resist! Resist?” cried William. “Say,
D’you know I’ve passed three pubs to-day’?”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


DUNIjOP KELLY
SOLID
CLE TYRES
!
/
/
/
r 4
jMU
4
/4
%
a
/
0*
* ■
;
•a ' *
r P<* '■
After you have enjoyed the pleasure of a drive
on Dunlop Solid Rubber Vehicle Tyres you will appreciate their many advantages. The absence of noise and vibration
coupled with the fact that they double the life of a vehicle—means additional comfort, plus economy. The high
grade Rubbers wear for years, and are attached by electrically welded steel wires—precluding any possibility of tyres
coming off. Prices from £4 per pair and upwards, according to size. Fitted by all leading Coachbuilders—but
accept no substitute, for the “DUNLOP” and “OCEANIC” Brands are your guarantee of satisfaction.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Price List on Application. Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Launceston, Wellington, Christchurch & Auckland.


Man (76) and Wife Twofold Triumph for DE WITT’S
Kidney &
Bladder
PILLS
The subject of kidney and bladder trouble is a very complex,
wide and far-reaching one. There are so many different forms or
kidney and bladder trouble that it would need a large book to
adequately do justice to the subject. One of the most painful, and*
at the same time most serious, forms of this particular human
ailment is the formation of stone in the kidney or bladder. Stone,
in either of these organs, is serious and at the same time most
difficult to overcome. People of both sqx.es suffer with it, and so do
people of nearly all ages.
It is difficult to overcome in young people, who have all the
resources of youth and vigor on their side, but a case of stone in
the bladder and kidney becomes very serious indeed when old
people become affected. Surely, then, when a cure is effected
person nearly 80 years of age, this can be properly described as “a
triumph.”
‘‘About four years ago, in the early part of 1910, I became very
unwell. I had most awful pains in the back, and a burning, aching
pain internally, as well as great urinary weakness. The natural
functions were greatly disturbed and disordered, and there was
much sediment in the urine. I became very ill, the pain was so
bad I could not bend at all, not even turn over in bed. I put it
very mildly when I say I was in misery.
“I tried all kinds of advice and remedies, including so-called
backache pills, none of which touched my case. Everything proved
to be totally useless.
‘‘One day I w r as looking through Lloyd's News and saw an
advertisement about the wonderful results obtained by taking De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. I had also heard people talk well
about these pills, and I finally decided to give them a trial, so I
went to Messrs. Boots’ shop in Caledonian Road (the largest retail
drug stores in the world) and got a box of them. The result was
wonderful, for the quick relief after those years of suffering aston-
ished me. I had proof within 24 hours that these wonderful pills
were doing me good. I finished the first box, and got another, and
while taking the second box I passed two large rough stone 9,
covered with sharp-pointed crystals. This happened on December
31, 1913. about six o’clock in the morning. The pain was very bad.
but not half so bad as I would imagine an operation would be, and
furthermore, whereas I)e Witt's Pills acted quickly and gently, I
would not care to run the risk of a surgical operation at my age.
because it is generally supposed that stone in the bladder cannot be
cured except by operation. I am not a young man—now 76 years
of age, and have led a life which exposes me to all inclemencies of
the weather, with the result that I feel sure the kidneys must have
become weakened.
“The size of these stones seemed so extraordinary that I showed
them to a well-known physician, who was astonished that such
stones should have been passed without operation, lie said: ‘Mr.
Watts, if I had not known you for some years I would not have
believed it.’
“I have heard of young men and women being cured of stone, but
to cure a man of my age I consider very wonderful, and so did my
doctor.
“Since I was cured by De Witt’s Pills I have been quite
different, strong and well, and can go fox - , long walks, whereas
before the slightest movement caused awful pain; in fact, I now
feel like a new man.
“But De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are good for some-
thing else besides stone in the bladder, for not only have I cause to
be thankful to De Witt’s, but my wife, also, not only suffered with
backache continually for over a year but was also troubled with a
It makes no difference,
old or young, both sexes
benefit from these “little
wonder workers.”
Mr. C. J. WATTS (from photo).
Husband—Stone in the Bladder.
Wife—Backache and Bladder
Weakness.
DE WITT’S RESTORED BOTH
TO HEALTH.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold by Chemists and Storekeepers everywhere, 2/9 and 5/G per box.
size—-most advantageous. TRIAL BOX FREE and plainly packed if you send 3d. stamps for postage, etc.
with the blue sea) on the cork —send your money to E. C. De Witt & Co., Ltd., 42-44 Pitt Street, Sydney,
weakness of the bladder which caused great personal inconvenience.
“As I was so wonderfully cured, she thought she would try De
Witt’s, with what both she and I consider wonderful results. She
found relief from the first dose, and before she had taken a dozen
pills the back-breaking pain disappeared. Since then she has been
quite well, she has not had the return of the pain, and the bladder
weakness of which she complained has become quite normal.
.“Many people might doubt the truth of my story, but a great
number of people know Charles John Watts (that’s me), for I have
lived at 02 Huntingdon Street, Barnsbury, for a long time. I have
only stated the bare facts, and if anybody still doubts whether De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills really do cure, then let them refer
to me and see for themselves. _ '
“I can never be too thankful for the benefit I have received from
De Witt's, and I think others ought to know of this splendid and
reliable remedy.”
•This is a wonderful story, and seems almost unbelievable. Mr. Watts was
ill for four years. He took De Witt’s Pills, he got relief within 24 hours, ami
was cured. Stones were passed in December, 1913. The thing' is, was he
permanently cured ar.d does he remain well ?
Mr. Watts writes in August, 1915, nearly two years afterwards, and says.
“I am very pleased to say I am going along well. I have had no further
trouble with stone in the bladder. I am now an old man in my 78th year,
and I have not felt the least pain or any symptom of the old trouble. b' e
Witt’s Pills seem to have set me up in every way; indeed, I ft we a deep
debt of gratitude to this excellent remedy, for they have completely cured me
of my old kidney and bladder trouble.”
How was it that Mr. Watts was cured after these stones had been fornung
for so many years? We know he took De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pin B '
but what was it caused the stones to be passed away in an almost natural
manner? It was this —De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills go straight to
the kidneys and not to the bowels, as most so-called kidney remedies ao-
You know that they have passed through the kidneys and also through tm?
bladder when you see that the urine turns that muddy, bluish color. Tli“.'
gently but surely clear away all impurities, and when passing through the
leave a wonderful healing, soothing effect, strengthening up the weakens
organs in such a manner as to prevent the complaint returning.
When you take De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills you can have no doi 1
in your mind as to whether they really have been to the kidneys and bladder.
They prove it to you before your very eyes, and after a course of them vou kno«
that they do relieve all symptoms of kidney trouble, and in most cases gi' e a
gcod, permanent and lasting cure. ,
Those who are inclined to kidney trouble should be on the look-out o
symptoms which will prove to them whether their kidneys are weak or not,
and these symptoms should not be overlooked or disregarded, because sen 0 ';
ai d incurable forms of kidney and bladder disorder start with very slig :
symptoms and gradually get worse. How are you to recognise kidney a
bladder trouble? Jiist ask yourself the question: “Have I any ot ■
following symptoms? Have 1 a nastv taste in the mouth first thing m t
morning, puffiness under the eves, general feeling of weakness and irritabinr .
aches and pains in various parts of the body? Have I constipation, cloua
urine or sharp, stabbing or aching pains—a pain ‘as though my back
break’?” These are the sure and certain symptoms of kidney trouble, and 1
who suffer from backache, rheumatism, gout,. sciatica, gravel, stone, cvs ■
(inflammation of the bladder) or pains in the muscles and joints, are
suffering these pains .through weak or diseased kidneys, for these are positi
the symptoms of kidney trouble. . •
These signs of kidney or bladder trouble are caused by the poisonous a
in the blood which the kidnevs should remove, but they do not, owing
their being in a weak state. ' De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills Q
remove these symptoms. You should go to your chemist at once for a '
of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and prove for yourself that withm -
hours these wonderful pills have without doubt commenced their healing v> '
—guaranteed. Do not put off, because weak kidneys very often
Bright’s Disease in the end. But when you buy the pills be sure you r
De Witt’s—in large white boxes printed in blue and gold—with a bine 'V.
seal on the top of the bottle. Refuse any of similar name without t■■
special seal. Make absolutelv sure of this, and if you suffer from any cur
form of kidney or bladder disease you will experience just as good results
did Mr. Watts.
Large size contains two-and-a-half times as many as the 2/9
If you have any difficulty in getting genuine De itt sli
who will gladly supply by return.
“B.” : Teddy Finn, of Melbourne Punch,
is probably the Methuselah among theatri-
cal critics. He has been scanning shows for
the McKinley organ since the early seven-
ties of last century, and before that was a
theatrical paragraphist on the deceased
Daily Telegraph. He confesses that he
has been a constant attendant at the theatre
for a little over GO years, and has not yet
lost the generosity of soul to spout a tear
when an artistic sob demands it. “Camille"
or “East Lynne” won’t affect him, but
“Struck Oil” can set him furtively search-
ing for his bandana. Finn is a kindly-dis-
posltioned little man, as the mummers bear
witness.
“B.O.”: Librettist Basil Hood's death
seems to have been caused chiefly by over-
indulgence in work. When the war started
he went to the War Office and toiled day
and night. On the verge of a nervous break-
down, he took a holiday and—engaged in
writing another play! Soon he was in a
condition to construct cryptograms found in
the works of Divine William. lie told his
brother that lie was helped by “mystic influ-
ences,” and had already extracted a secret
message from “Hamlet.” Next he reckoned
that he worked better on an empty stomach,
and of course it was soon all over then.
“Harrison O.”: “Sceneshifter” mentions
(B. 11/10/Y7) that when W. M. Hughes
was a sceneshifter he tried to foment
a strike, and his boss, George Rignold,
promptly fired him. There is another yarn
which relates how the old man dealt with
one whom he apparently regarded as a more
formidable antagonist. The supers, in a Kig-
nold production, having met and decided that
the time was ripe to demand an additional
few bob, appointed their leader, who was
six feet-something-unusual and built to scale,
to interview the boss. George listened
politely. “Four shillings a week more you
want, is that it? And you're worth it, tool
he told the giant. “In fact, a man of your
type is worth six shillings a week more, and.
my God, I’ll see that you get it. But I’m
certainly not going to give any more to those
weeds. Not another penny, that’s final !’’
The pleased agitator thanked the boss and
left*. Outside a couple of dozen of his cob-
bers were waiting, eager to learn the result
of the interview. “Yes, I told ’im what you
wanted,” he informed them; “an’ he says you
won’t get it. I can’t do any more you 11
have to fight your own bleedin’ battles !” But
the strike had lost its shoving power, and the
“noblest English” continued to scrap at
Harfleur at the old rates.
A grand-daughter of playwright Tom Rob-
ertson, Miss Madge Robertson, is nowadays
a resident of Panjil South, near Moe (Vic.).
She has never seen any of grandfather’s
plays, but wrote to the Firm to say that
she was going to Melbourne for the Cyril
Maude production of “Caste.”
“Invictus”: The dance of La Sheila in
“You’re in Love” makes one wonder why the
Williamson firm went to the expense of the
importation. Not that it is not good, but
Madge Elliott could have done it just as
well. Still, with Maggie Dickinson and young
Elliott in two cos., Bob Greig and Beatrice
Holloway heading a comedy co. and Doro-
thy Brunton and Cecil Bradley playing pro-
minently in musical comedy, the Firm can-
not be accused of not encouraging local
talent. And apparently it is so well satisfied
with this policy that it intends continuing it,
as witness the chance given little Rita
Nugent at Her Majesty’s.
From Walter Bentley, general sec.:
“Norbell” (B. 18/10/’l7) says that “the Actors’
Assoc, has been rather a startling proposition.
Originally created as a counterblast to the struggling
Actors’ Union, and as a kind of superior protest
against—haw —Trades Hall ideas, and to demonstrate
the beauty of Art for Art’s sake, etc., the Assoc, did
its damnedest" to help the managements squelch the
Union. Having succeeded, it now throws a complete
somersault and wants to register itself as a beastly
trade organisation!” This is all a misstatement of
fact. The Actors’ Assoc, was not started as a counter-
blast to the struggling Actors’ Union, and the Assoc,
has not done its damnedest to help the managements
squelch the Union. What it did some years ago was
to assist the managements to protect the profession
against a bogus attempt at .unionism. Against the
second application, made a few weeks ago, the Actors
Assoc, took no part, and a careful perusal of the
court records will show that the Union failed, not
from any external opposition, but simply because it
didn’t comply with the law. 1 The last sentence
quoted is, of course, ridiculous. The Actors’ Assoc,
doesn’t want to register itself as a beastly trade
organisation. It does all in its power to assist actors
and actresses whether they are members or not, if
their cases are deserving.
That blessed word Mesopotamia! No
sooner did Maude begin liis return season
in Melbourne than press announcements
were made that “Mr. Cyril Maude has sent
a cable message to General Sir Stanley
Maude his cousin, congratulating him on
his recent victory.”
it- i on
“J.F.11." (London) : Genevieve Ward, 80
and a bit is about to start on a long and
ana a mi, is auuu _
trying -winter provincial toui ot I - _
toe-rat,” the latest success at the St. James s
Theatre, in which she shared the limelight,
tile applause and the box-office takings with
Sir George Alexander. George does not reel
well enough to embark on this tour, but
Genevieve is as blithesome as if the whole
thing was a holiday. Fifteen cities are to
be visited, and a week played m each:
Liverpool, Manchester, Birmingham, Bristol
and Edinburgh among them. When an
interviewer inquired whether Genevieve did
not feel a bit alarmed at the winter pro-
spect, she merely “laughed heartily. All
through life, she explained, she had taken
care never to “over-stoke herselt tor
breakfast a pint cup of cocoa with biscuits,
at midday a good substantial meal, and just
before going to the theatre in the evening
a little light refreshment. And that, so tai
as she knew, was all there was to explain
everything.
At latest London advices “Damaged
Goods” had reached its 200th performance
« *«• *?«*>'? Theatre, was still .oing
strong nine times a week. Ihe society
formed to produce the piece reports that le
profits to date have enabled it to distribute
£lO,OOO among certain charities.
’ „ , . ~
O. : Ihe charming backcloth in the
first act of “General John Regan,” repre-
senting the cliffs of Ballymoy and the blue,
blue sea bevond. is the work of Australian
Leslie Board. Cyril Maude is so pleased
with it that he has arranged to take it with
him to the U.S.A.
T , „ , , .. .. /.a.i,
London Referee celebrating its 40th
anniversary, looks back to 18 1 7 and finds
the stage great y improved. It was just in
R) r t lC ( , T !, lbei \ .
’ Ihe Sorcerer, and Our Boys aud 1
Dominoes weie in full swing, but ot
London was given up to me odiam ( o }
adapted from the French) or burlesqu .
Artnur Roberts was about the o y PJ’
prominent then and now. A marked pa a
improvement is in dramatic criticism. The
critics of 18 <7 were almost always unsuc-
cessful playwrights, poorly paid, and fra y
despised by actors and managers, who said
freely that they could get all the praise they
wanted in exchange for a little chicken and
champagne judiciously administered. The
open and paid press-agent has saved the
journalist from a lot of undignified work
which used to be expected of him.
The War Precautions Act comes hard on
a showman w’ho gets burnt out. This hap-
pened to young Upton Browm, who was
running a prosperous picture business
at w’hat used to be the South Yarra
(Melb.) skating rink. The building
caught fire one morning and was destroyed
The landlord is not disposed to rebuild
while the war is on, and Lpton Biown
is not allow’ed to erect a domicile for pic-
tures elsewhere because the war is on. He
could find the capital, but he mustn't start
a new show’ on a new site. Lately he has
been trying a mixed music and recitation
entertainment at Melbourne Athenamm
Ilall, himself being the reciter. The schol-
arly entertainer has a taking appearance, a
good \oice and cultured diction, and does
well for a professional beginner. But
another sort of burnt-out picture showman
wouldn’t have those assets to fall back upon
-„ . „
J.1.1L : Hew many Australian play-
goers can recall Clarence Holt, the father of
Bland? In reminiscences just published in
c ondon he is referred to as a “rough old
tragedian.” In conjunction with Billy Hos-
kins he was a prime favorite on the Gold-
fields, particularly Ballarat, in the ’so’s and
’oo’s. They specialised in Shakspeare. One
0 £ tbe mos t curious entertainments ever
beheld was made up of selections from
ghakspeare and Dickens by Clarence Holt
sandwiched with comic songs by George
Heybourne,. creator of “Champagne Charlie.”
Dickens dropped into this show’ one night
anc j afterwards went round to compliment
Clarence on his impersonation of Bill Sikes
g croo ge and Jingle. In his latter years
clarence Holt ran the Grand Theatre in
Islington, a northern suburb of London, and
£ or tbe sake of auld lang syne gave hospit-
abje openings to Australian plays and
players. I remember a season of George
Darrell's plays there, and good I thought
them. Clarence died in Great Ormond-
street, London, and the Times said that he
left a volume of recollections behind him in
kltT P&glS
f a i ns some interesting sidelights on the Aus-
fj-alian theatre of the ’so’s and ’6o’s,
„
‘Glen Huntly : Over the Hills, theone-
act play lately done in Melbourne by the
Repertory Co., is one of the poorest things
Gregan McMahon has given us, yet it is from
the pen of one of the cleverest and best-
informed of present-day English dramatic
critics, John Palmer, who succeeded Max
Beerbohm on the Saturday Review. “Over
the Hills” is scarcely more than a sketch,
suitable for vaudeville, and there is no good
why it should be offered by a rep.
isati( / n except that it happens to be the
w *. k Qf Qne who> ag a critic , has helped to
boost the rep. movement. Palmer seems
to be another of the little army which can be
both interesting and stimulating when point-
j ng ou t the shortcomings of Pinero, Jones,
y[ aug h am and others, but are dull and un-
original when they set about play-making on
tb eir own account. First-class critics do. not
usua n y ma ke first-class dramatists, Shaw
bei a brilliant exception to this as to other
ru j eg Charles Lamb, a rare critic, failed as
& p i aywr jght, and sitting in the pit at Drury
jane j 0 with the rest of the audience in
hi . J hig farce “ Mr . H .” Max Beer-
bohm s hag done original work as caricaturist,
nove ]j s t a nd critic, but if he achieves immor-
t it will not b e through his play, “The
Happy Hypocrite.” Clement Scott is another
critic who made several attempts at drama-
tic writing without achieving anything nota-
ble, though judging bv his noisy heroics he
should have made an excellent melodramatist
0 f the George R. Sims school.
Bairnsfather’s comedy, “The Better ’Ole,”
f 2500 . the firgt week at the Oxford
(London) and was promptly acquired for
Australia. Film rights were also rushed,
.
You never know your luck in theatrical
matters. The gloomy and unpleasant "Dam-
aged Goods” has got itself accepted in Lng-
land to such an extent that there are now five
companies playing it up and down the coun-
try.
SILLY ASS-ETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Among current Chicago sensations is the emi-
nence of the alleged Australian barefoot dancer
Saharet. An admirer’s financial affairs ended in
chaos, and at an auction of his effects 87 photos
of the divinity brought the Yankee equivalent of
Ts. 7d.”
Eighty-seven photos
Round my den I’d see,
And I’d swear that no toes,
My divinity,
Twinkled e’er like yours did,
On the limelit stage.
I got dilly (scores did !)
When you were the rage.
Eighty-seven photos
Bare up to the knees —
Most expensive ten toes,
Those extremities!
When you’d cost me more, dear,
Than I could afford,
Knocking at my door, dear,
Came a dunning horde.
Eighty-seven photos
My chief assets were;
Nemesis on slow toes
Tracked me to my lair;
Bankrupt, through those pro. toes,
Bust my dream of Heaven !
Eight-seven photos
Sold for one and seven !
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


G.E. 3-Phase SKELETON FRAME
INDUCTION MOTOR
Foi Heavy Duty
SIZES
VOLTAGES...
20 to 200 H.P.
415
Si
m
i
i
11
i I
s
Wk
ft
f
i/ m
■ I
m
m
m
m
wm
Uhe NEW FREEDOM *
m FROM POWER TROUBLES
Let “G.E. Electric Motors do your work.
STARTING COMPENSATOR
fitted with no voltage and overload relays
for Squirrel Cage Induction Motors
1
All relays are
furnished
with enclos-
ing covers
rl
I
il; J
m\
mm
w
Jk
\
Sat’
s
*a»
=dr
is3grrjr‘v3r
*3*
No-voltage
release
Coil heavily
protected
Oil tanks
removable for
inspection,
renewal of
oil. etc.
Observe the
sturdy con-
struction of
all switch
parts
Overload ’
relays give
effective pro-
tection against
effect of
overload a
Heavy covers
afford ample
protection to
internal parts
Operating
lever "Off"
"Starting”
and
“Running”
( He»vy 1
wiping positive
contacts for oil
k immersion i
READ THE SCORE
OF ADVANTAGES POSSESSED BY
G.E. SKELETON
FRAME MOTORS
Extreme Simplicity
Great Overload Capacity
Internal Ventilation
High Commercial Efficiency
All Parts Interchangeable
Special Insulating Features
Low Heating
Efficient Starting Accessories
Heavy Shafts & End Shields
▲
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, CP OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.)
I.td.. corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins £ Co. (W.A.). I.td.. Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun St .Johnstone. 100 Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical £ Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock £ Co., Ltd., Launceston: Messrs. Oliver
and Oliver. MacQuarie Street. Hobart.
SttlTHfc-
%|UUU,s


A. Saunders’ pure ' double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15et. gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Earring's, set
with pure double-
cut diamonds,
£3O.
A. Saunders’ five
pure double-cut
diamond-set Ring,
18ct. gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ three
pure double-cut
diamond-set Ring,
18ct. gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ . 15ct. Gold
Links, set pure double-cut
diamonds, £5. Larger dia-
monds, £6/10/-
A, Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. gold,
?fr
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ five
pure double-cut
diamond-set King,
18ct. gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
gold, £lO.
-—$ —‘
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Necklace,
set aquamarines or
tourmalines, 9ct. gold,
£2.
A. Saunders’ single-
stone diamond
circle Brooch,
15ct. gold,
V
tn>
m
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Necklace, set
diamonds and pearls,
£lO,
All diamonds, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS,
DIAMOND MERCHANT.
«r .tf.-TM
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, compensation balance,
9ct. gold throughout, £B/10/-. 15ct. gold throughout,
£l2/10/-. Extra-jewelled movement, £l5.
A. Saunders' 15ct. Gold Lady’s Expanding Wristlet Watch,
jewelled Lever movement, set olivines or pearls,
£l2/10/-, £l5. Set diamonds and rubies, £2O.
All diamonds, £3O, £4O, £5O.
ALL ORDERS POSTED FREE.
SEND FOR LATEST ILLUSTRATED
GIFT BOOK—IT’S FREE.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, compensation
balance, £7/10/-. Extra quality, £B/10/-.
15ct. gold throughout, £lO, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Cold Necklace, set
with double-cut dia-
monds and pearls,
£B/10/-
AU diamonds,
£l2 10/-
A. Saunders loct. gold
Circle Brooch, set
with six pure double-
cut diamonds,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ diamond
and pearl Necklace,
15ct. gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Brooch, loct. gold, £4/10/.
A. Saunders' pure
double-cut dia-
mond-set Ring,
18ct. gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut diamond
Half-hoop Ring,
18ct. gold, £5.
Larger diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
gold cluster drop
Earrings, set with
pure double-cut
diamonds, £25.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set pure double-cut
diamond, £3/10/-. Larger
diamonds, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond boat-shape
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£7/10/-
Smaller diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ three
pure double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
gold, £25.
—§r“~
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £3/10/-
Jeweller, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
\l
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per (lay, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
ON ALL OCCASIONS
when you may require a specially strong antiseptic Soap—for
instance, to protect yourself against mosquitoes and other insects,
or to antiseptically cleanse their bites —use
CALVERT’S
20% Carbolic Soap.
Use a light lather only, that is all you need with a Soap like this,
which contains such a large proportion of Carbolic.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers. Each tablet in metal box.
Makers: F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester, England.
BOOKS AT AUSTRALIA’S BIG BOOK STORE.
I Will Get You Any Book You Require.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH .
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS—LOVE, BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc.,
with full directions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to Win at Cards.
1/3. Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, &c., 1/6
posted,’ How to Play Billiards, illustrated, 1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-,
posted 1/3. Camille, 1/6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-. Piano Tuning
and Repairing. 1/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules
for all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man from Snowy River, 4/-.
Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic, 1/3. Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, 1/-.
The Doctor (Cures for all Diseases), 1/3 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches & Toasts, Public Speaking Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly
Gang of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; posted, 1/2. Electricity
Made Simple (new). 5/-. Self-Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted Cabinetmakers’ llandybook, 1/6. Complete Book-keep-
ing, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. Parlor Magic. 1/- posted. How McDou-
gall Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3. French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan-
nan’s Engine-Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many others, all at 3/6 each posted.
Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted. The Woman of Fire, 2/-. Send a trial order NOW.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and save your cash, a#" Established 25 Years.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1/6 posted. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/3. Sappho, genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3 posted.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2/6. o/o
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry, 1/5. Guide
to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret History Court of England, 1/6 posted. Lover
Letter Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry ax-
posed, Key to all Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary
30d. posted. Tokology. r ~/Q posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d., 2/-. How to Kea
Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 postMj
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assistant, 1/6. The wife
Handbook, 1/2 posted. Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted. I RUi
of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New Recitations and Readings, 1/3. aervou -
ness and Its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary,
pages, 1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 16/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas. >■
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3. M° ORE /fi
Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, n/o
posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200 Old-Time Songs (wora*
and music complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this Advt,
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the AsKing.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANY
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, g 69 Market Street, Sydney miv.


“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. “The ‘PLUM'S' the Razor for me.”
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case. 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case. 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
_ Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM”
Razor.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors -Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £86,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YE\R
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000
TTie Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delav.
IT’S GREAT
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on mv
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Philip Frankel & Co., Edward St., Bris-
bane; Eyes & Crowle Ltd., Pirie St.,
Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300
G.P.0., Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto Sup-
plies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St.. Melbourne;
R. R. Russack, 377 a., Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
HOR LICK’S
MALTED MILK
a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grams
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltu.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Soda Fountain
©
If You Want a
Good “Knockabout”
Watch —get
the “Boyproof.”
We call it “Boyproof” because the double-
back case, stem wind and set make it practi-
cally foolproof. Gives honest service for
many a year.
Boundary Riders, Teamsters, Si hoolbovs,
Campers, should invest in the “BOY-
PROOF” Watch. Stands plenty of rough
and tumble in all sorts of conditions.
Price 6/6 Post Free -
eoYPQOor
Send for our Catalogues of Watches, Rings, Jewellery, Military Souvenirs, etc,
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
u
A breath of Blighty”
/
“3=*e_
1
\
'A
/
Kj
<*l
»
/
'cr
iO
DRIVER : “ ’Ere, you blighter, you’re lettin’ my tyre down ! "
THE RECUMBENT ONE : “ Doctor’s orders, matey ! The M.O. said I was pinin’ for me native
air, an’ w’en I spotted these ’ere Avons I reckoned they prob’ly ’adn’t bin pumped up since they
left ’ome —So * ’ere goes for a breath of Blighty, Alf,’ I sez 1 ”
A N A.S.C. driver, campaigning in Egypt (driving the G.O.C. the
—th Division), writes to Mr. H. E. Clark, of Highgate, as
follows: —“You will be interested to know that I am running Avon
Tyres all round on my big 4 Vauxhall.’ I have got the same Avons
on as I had when the car was at Ferant Camp, Salisbury. I have
never had a puncture, or even had to pump up one of the covers
since I took the car over last October.”
1
Kifti
Tim
s
N.S.W. Agents: Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Victorian Agents : H. C. Pannifex, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents : The Queensland flotor Agency, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
G
EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
T.arc-pst Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
ABBEY
SHOES.
Your footwear should combine cor-
rect and distinctive style, with the
utmost comfort and SERVICE.
You get all these essentials in
Abbey Shoes.
Our footwear is made in half- and
full-sizes, and in three fittings—
narrow, medium and wide.
We illustrate a special Patent
Derby Shoe, in a very smart,
“made to-order” style.
Price - 401-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.


SAYS DYSPEPTICS NEED MORE
MAGNESIA.
TAKE A LITTLE BISURATED MAGNESIA IN HOT
WATER IMMEDIATELY AFTER EATING, AND
ENJOY HEARTY MEALS WITHOUT DISTRESS.
If people who suffer more or less con-
stantly after meals with acid indigestion or
dyspepsia, sourness, gas, bloating, etc., would
make a practice of taking half a teaspoonlui
of bisurated magnesia in a quarter-glass or
hot water after eating they might there and
then put an end to all fear of storaao
trouble. For bisurated magnesia mixing
with the digesting food and stomach juices
promptly and effectively sweetens all excess
acid, prevents fermentation and souring
food, and ensures a normal and pamles
digestion that possibly you have not expen-
enced before in years. Get a few ounce
of ordinary bisurated magnesia from r
nearest chemist and try it and see. It is bar -
less to the stomach and inexpensive. *
stomach purposes be sure and get oiSMfn
magnesia rather than magnesia in 0
forms, as this is specially prepared
neutralising stomach acidity.— Advt.
::
BHI
BUI
■■r
■■sir
See the Masterpieces of the World’s Foremost Authors in
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
Paramount Productions bring to your doors those wonderfully human men
and women —those absurdly delightful situations —thrilling adventures,
beautiful romances and astonishing climaxes —stories that haye made
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
THE CYNOSURE OF THE WORLD’S EYES.
Sweeping in their magnitude, they are the essence of wholesomeness, expert
knowledge and foresight—they bring a vital message, and contain a meaning
fraught with appeal and human interest.
There are a hundred reasons why you should see Paramount Pictures, chief
of which is that they are the best. Ask for them at your theatre.
MARY PICKFORD,
DOUG. FAIRBANKS,
LOUISE HUFF,
VIVIAN MARTIN,
WALLACE REID,
PAULINE FREDERICK,
MARGUERITE CLARK,
SESSUE HAYAKAWA.
■BBI
POLITICAL
POINTS
W. A. Holman, lately back from Europe
and the U.S.A.:—
On arrival in England... .the feeling of optimism
fell from me like a dream. I had thought the Ger-
man military authorities inflated with conceit. Con-
sultation with British and Allied leaders showed me
that this was a wrong idea —that the Germans were
working on a plan and had succeeded in perfecting
their plan. They had demobilised Russia ; they had
a chance of demobilising Italy ; they had inflicted a
measure of exhaustion upon France ; and they hoped
to starve England.
The time seems to be ripe for someone to
explain (1) what sort of a plan Australia
has been working on, and (2) in whose
interest a Censorship was devised to keep
us in the dark abot t these things, and thus
prevent either Conscription or voluntary
recruiting being taken seriously.
THE RACING SEASON.
TERCY: “ Y’know it’s been truly said, ‘ln the
Spring a young man’s fancy’”
MISS PERT : “Often gets left at the post!”
A young unnaturalised German, one Karl
Ouvrier, was charged at Melbourne City
Court with having helped to load a trans-
port under false pretences. Karl belongs to
the mob of Huns whom Pearce permits to
remain at large on parole. He is under
contract to report himself to the police once
a fortnight as his own enemy alien self. But
when the National Service Bureau was
opened Karl Ouvrier enrolled himself as
F. Turner, and got three jobs in succession
—an alien on parole drawing wages from
Government under an alias! Our War Pre-
cautions Act leaves enemy aliens so much at
liberty that they can change their identity
for transport-loading purposes, yet we won-;
der why those enemy aliens think us fools! ;
War is a queer business; but the queerest
aspect of it that came under Holman’s
notice is the payment of rent for the ground
where Billjim has his little dug-out; —
The Belgian and French farmers and landowners,
instead of going to their own Governments and
making claims which would be settled with the
British Government, personally come to the British
adjutants or other officers on the ground and begin to
haggle about the trench rents and rent for other
occupied territory. So Australia pays its share to
the British Government. The Belgian and French
peasants are sometimes grasping, and show them-
selves in their Worst lights.
Holman found a few things that made him
wonder whether the organising genius he had
heard about wasn’t a myth; but he reckons
this method of settling the rent payable for
a battlefield, is well able to hold its own for
foolishness.
The anti-Conscriptionist expresses tremen-
dous admiration for the men who have gone
to the Front as volunteers. But to defend
and protect the shirkers who refuse to go
to the assistance of the volunteer when he
is hard-pressed is an odd way to show him
either gratitude or admiration.
“I trust, however, that nothing will be
done in the way of a testimonial. I only
did my duty in the responsible position which
I had the honor of holding.” — N.S.W. Act-
ing-Premier Fuller’s castigation of the
crowd which threatened to hand him a “sub-
stantial” insult.
An alleged “crisis” in S. Aus. politics was
discovered by the Register last week. The
idea, so the paper
claimed, was for certain
of the “National” lot
who helped to form the
present Coalition Min-
istry, but did not them-
selves get into it, to
turn it out. with the
assistance of “a few
weak-kneed Liberals.”
Whether it was all any-
thing more than a blue-
duck or a mare’s-nest
may never be quite cer-
tain. Anyway, the
paper announced next
morning that, of course
owing to its timely
warning, the danger
was already over. The
one definite result was
that Clarence Goode,
brother-in-law and re-
cent colleague of Craw-
ford Vaughan in the
Labor team, threw off
all shackles and stood
out on his own. “Or-
ganic union is no good
to me,” he told an in-
terviewer. “It is not
union but absorption.
All the Liberals have
conceded is votes for
soldiers for the Leg.
Council —t hr e e years
hence.”
Brazil is the 25 th
nation to break off rela-
tions with the Kaiser.
The other two dozen are
Belgium, Bolivia,
China, Cuba, France,
Great Britain, Greece,
Hayti, Honduras, Italy, Japan, Liberia,
Montenegro, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru,
Portugal, Roumania, Russia, San Domingo,
Servia, Siam, U.S.A. and Uruguay.
“0.K.”: A while ago, when our highly-
censored cable news swelled with stories of
the Italian advance, nothing from the Ger-
man side was ever published save a curt
suggestion that the Italians hadn’t Buckley’s
chance of capturing Trieste. This was given
no prominence, and was ignored in the cross-
headings. No caustic enemy comment on
a campaign ever is cross-headed. Yet judging
from recent happenings to the Italian forces
the German criticism was the very item
that should have been featured. The effect
cf the Censorship has been to fool public
opinion all along the line. Everything is
done to delude the public into a sense of
perfect security. Nothing is done to alarm
anybody, or indicate a pressing need of
Conscription. The influence of the Censor-
ship is narcotic ; its object might be evil for
all that has ever been proved to the con-
trary. The one thing certain about it is its
military direction, and the most evident
thing about British military direction is its
tendency to blunder.
Premier Peacock has been practising
economy, after all. Thus a State school
teacher recently married a man going to the
Front and was in consequence compelled to
resign, as per regulation. Hearing that the
Department was short of teachers she applied
for work and was offered her old billet but
at £BO a year instead of the £llO she used
to get.
The chairman of the North Shore Gas Co.
and the deputy-chairman of the Australian
(Sydney) Gaslight Co. having been lately
appointed to the N.S.W. Leg. Council, the
time was ripe to introduce a bill to amend
the Gas Act. Five years’ experience has
shown that it wasn’t quite all that the gas
cos. hoped for, though a good deal more
than they expected ; and one or two alleged
“anomalies” were to be cleared out. Appar
ently so that the whole position should not
be too closely inquired into, an attempt was
made to rush the amending bill through in
the last few minutes of the recent session.
But, though two or three of the easy-going
Ministers had been persuaded, somebody got
hold of the ears of the rest of them, and the
little scheme was spoiled. As a matter of
fact, the Gas Act has more completely failed
to protect the public than any other measure
passed through the N. S. Wales Parliament
during the last*seven years, and that is say-
ing a good deal. If the gas cos. desire amend-
ments they should get them only on copdi-
tion that the whole measure is thrown into
the pot; and there is hardly a section of it
which won’t need alteration in order to even
begin to accomplish what the House set out
to do. In any case, even though the State
may have to stand by the shoekingly-bad
financial part of the bargain, the provisions
regarding the quality of the gas supplied
should be overhauled at the first opportunity.
Vic. Railways-Minister Hugh McKenzie,
formerly of the Lands Department, who has
persistently barracked for Clause 69 of the
Closer Settlement Act containing a resi-
dence-on-the-farm condition, has lately got
three cheers from Elwood Mead, now in the
chair of Rural Industries at the University
WHICH SHALL IT BE?
In a fortnight’s time the Federal Cabinet, with a
full knowledge of the recruiting figures and of the
requirements in the matter of reinforcements, will
come to a decision. —The Minister for Defence.
WIRELESS OPERATOR PEARCE: “S.O.S.! Yes,
it’s all very well for them to call
S.O.S.; but what we’ve got to consider
is whether we will get hurt if we try to
help them!”
of California. When in Victoria as chair-
man of the Water Commission, Mead would
have agreed to a time limit, but now declares
himself entirely convinced that residence is
necessary to prevent aggregation. Certainly
something will have to be done. Pushed far
out on to rockeries in the Backblocks, already
a few returned soldiers are failing to make a
crust owing to lack of suitable soil and
absence of transport and general facilities.
Relic Peacock and most of his followers
ought to be given a long rest from their
Parliamentary “labors” this month, and some
of them will be if the electors seize the
opportunity the preferential vote offers them.
Victoria has, in fact, a fine chance and every
reason to bundle out the old party hacks
and return new men, pledged to no party
whatsoever but to a policy of progress tem-
pered by sane economy. Unfortunately
Peacock himself is, at latest, opposed only
by another has-been, W. B. Grose; so Allen-
dale has its choice limited to King Log and
King Stump.
PERFECT PROTECTION.
HERMANN : “Lot’s der news, fader?”
MR. SMITH : “Dey vos hold der pig hublic
meeting in Sydney to demand ob der
Goberment for to intern all der Sher-
mans.”
HERMANN : “Veil, vot matter? Ve vos still
Smith —vos ve nod?”
The late Vaughan Government in S. Aus.
appears to have been straight enough: it
only seems to have been, in practical affairs,
incapable of taking care of itself or anybody
else. One of the big rows it got into was
over the comic Glenelg breakwater —a gro-
tesquely unnecessary work to which Parlia-
ment was never given the chance of agree-
ing. The contractors now state that the
specification allowed for a maximum wave
Bft. high and 30ft. long. Last winter they
carefully checked the worst storm that
occurred, and found the waves 13ft. to 14ft.
high, with a length probably even greater in
proportion ; so they assure the public that
even if they are able to ever complete the
work, it certainly will be washed away soon
after it is finished. None except a handful
of yachtsmen wanted it started, and they
didn’t ask for anything like this. The
milk in the cocoanut is that, as with the new
Zoo in Sydney, work handy to town had to
be found for Labor supporters.
KEEP HOPING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Another year will see the end of the war.”
Summer is here with bluster of hot airs ;
The Spring grows weary with her song and dance.
War on his brazen foghorn loudly blares,
And death finds.-heavy reaping still in France ;
But hope has yet a feather oiled and curled
To greet the turning of. the war-sick world.
“It will be over in a week or two,”
Men said when first the cannon thunder broke.
In long blood-written language soon we knew
How much hot life old Europe’s fields must soak
Before the hate awakened turned to love
Or earth could hear the flutter of the dove.
To finish things at least in two black years
The new-made armies thronged the place of strife.
The promise faded in a mist of tears,
And death laughed loudly in the face of life.
Not yet, not yet! But still the purpose stood
Through gathering fear and disappointment rude.
Once more the prophet gazes through the gloom.
What of the night, O watchman of clear eyes?
Let the world spin her turn from bloom to bloom,
And victory above the wrecks shall rise.
Press home the fiery surge of flying steel —
The stalwarts of the foe begin to reel!
This summer brings us only lists of death.
What of the next? Shall the warm days and fair
Bring us their peace upon the happy breath
Of nodding flowers scenting all the air?
There will be blooms again. Ah, God ! we know
To what sad purpose some white bells shall blow !
N.S.W.
MARY McC.
GLORY SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Kaiser has ordered an official rejoicing over
the Italian retreat.”
The winter with its icy breath
Blows down the Northern Sea;
The fighting fields are choked with death
And Teuton misery;
But half a dozen Alps are won,
So let us all be gay;
The Allies have the biggest gun,
But let the music play,
While the joyful people yell,
Singing glory, glory, glory;
Singing glory, glory, glory;
Singing glory—also hell 1
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


The “Bookstall” Series is the Work of
Australia’s Best Novelists.
This series of novels, published by the N. S. Wales Bookstall Co Ltd
is the most varied and most popular collection of Australian novels ever
pub ishe . J together there are over 100 novels, the sales of which
exceed 1.000.000 copies.
11- each-ALL ONE PRICE—I/1 posted
“ WRITE FOB COM HITE CATALOGUE. from Publishers.
Here are SIX FIRST-CLASS NOVELS:
EDWARD DYSON:
“LOVES OF LANCELOT.’
E. J. BRADY :
“TOM PAGDIN, Pirate.’’
BRODA REYNOLDS :
“THE SELECTOR GIRL.’
LOUIS BECKS:
“ADVENTURES OF LOUIS
BLAKE.”
AMBROSE PRATT:
“WOLAROI’S CUP.”
STEELE RUDD:
“GRANDPA’S SELECTION.”
Two Books by the late SUMNER LOCKE :
“MUM DAWSON—BOSS.” “THE DAWSONS’ UNCLE GEORGE.”
THE ENEMY WITHIN!
Have You Read the Great Australian War Novel —
“THe Hate of a Hun/*
by Arthur Wrigbt.
The sensational, thrilling story of how the Kaiser’s subjects made war
in Australia.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO . LTD „
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
double-
sided
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
Some Good Regal Records at 2 6 each
6000
S When Father Papered the Parlor Billy Williams.
1 Don’t Go Out W'ith Him To-night
GOO 4
I’ve Found Kelly Billy Williams.
You're the One
fiOK)
Why Can’t AVe Have the Sea in .London?
Take Me Hack to U.S.A
Billy AA r illiams.
OOJO
j Little Love, A. Little Kiss ...* JciniGS Keed,
(You Went Away CBas. Harrison,’
tenor.
tenor.
Terry, My Blue-eyetl Irish Boy William Thomas’,
Where the River Shannon Flows ~
tenor
0365
Just Plain Folks Ada Jones, soprano.
You’ll Have to Sing an Irish Song „ }
Clio
S Peg: o’ My
( You Have
Meart Irving Gillette.
Always lieen the Same Old Pal
6642
S Wait Till I’m as Old as Father Billy Williams.
t Where Does Daddy Go When He Goes Out?
6T16
Little Grey Home in the West John Adams,’tenor.
To Mary
6718
l^tist Nijflit Was tht* End of tli<* World Irving Gillette.
I’m on My Way to Mandalay Campbell and Gillette!
6745
[The Sunshine of Your Smile John Adams, tenor
( The Woman Thou Gavest Jle
6812
La Marseillaise Harrison Latimer, baritone.
(The Red, White and Blue King’s Military Band.
6815
Your King and Country Want Y'ou
Fall In
Stanley Kirkby.
6832
The Sunshine of Your Smile Julie Dolaro.
Wonderful Rose of Rove
March Lorraine King's Military Band.
Old Comrades March
CBBl
I Only One of the Toys Harrison Latimer, baritone.
( If England Wants a Hand
>♦ .
»>
7015
Weymouth Chimes Band of H.M. Scots Guards.
Coronation Itelis ;j
7118
Casey on the ’Phone Talking.
Casey’s Description of the Fight
175
Till the Sands of the Desert Grow Cold Stanley Kirkby.
When the Joy Bells Ring
7249
There’s a Tong, Long Trail (Duet) Stewart and Burt.
Just a Plain Silver Docket Stanley Kirkby.
7293
Y\ hen I Leave the World Behind Gertie Gitana
Wrap Me in a Bundle and Take Me Home With You .. . ' Duet
7295
f What Did You Do in the Great War, Daddy? Stanley Kiri by.
( 'When the Boys Come Home Again
7312
Lucy (Irey and S. Kirkby.
B. Trevor and C. Cooper.
f If You Were the Only Girl in the World
| Another Little Drink .
7338
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Ptv.
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.-—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
WORMS—THE SYMPTOMS.
The symptoms of worms are manifold,
embracing not only facial indications and
depression of the whole system, but serious
irritation and much distress.
IN VERY YOUNG CHILDREN much
of the irritability and fretfulness is' often
due to the presence of worms. Restlessness,
fitfulness, sudden starts,' hardness and full-
ness of the belly, irregular movement of the
bowels, and excessive secretion of saliva from
the mouth are invariably indications of the
irritation caused by worms.
IN OLDER CHILDREN the same symp-
toms are present, but more distinctly defined.
Grinding of the teeth, violent movements of
the legs and arms, and an undue flow of
saliva, which causes frequent efforts to swal-
low. When awake there is a constant desire
to pick the nose and scratch the irritated
parts. The bowels are irregular, and fre-
quently the movement of the worms causes
diarrhoea, alternating with costiveness. The
breath is usually foul, and the child is
languid and peevish, the tongue preternatu-
rally red or alternately clean and covered
with a white slimy mucous. A short, dry
cough, frequently slimy stools (excretion
from the bowels), emaciation, slow fever,
irregular pulse, and sometimes convulsions.
Loss of appetite frequently alternates with
a craving for food. Indeed, the latter symp-
tom is most pronounced in many cases, and
many mothers have experienced the insatiable
appetites of their children without realising
the cause.
NO RECURRENCE
AFTER TREATMENT WITH COMSTOCK’S “DEAD
SHOT” WORM PELLETS, WRITES NEW ZEALAND
RESIDENT.
“About three years ago my two little
daughters, aged 5 and 7 years, were afflicted
with stomach and pin worms,” writes Mr.
John Sherbooke, of 501 Queen Street, Has-
tings. N.Z. “I decided to give them Com-
stock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets, and am
pleased to state that after taking these worm
pellets they passed several stomach-worms of
6 to 10 inches in length, and I have found
no recurrence of these intestinal parasites
troubling my children since giving them
Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets. You
may use this testimony for publication.”
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS are a purely vegetable medi-
cinal preparation, compounded on a scientific
principle, for the eradication of worms
which infest the intestines. They contain
specific properties which destroy the worms
but cause no injury to the jstomach or bowels
and do not weaken the system. The pellets
are prepared in the form (>f a confection or
lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell,
but, on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary lozenge.
Obtainable at all leading .chemists and
stores, or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co.. Ltd.. 23 Lang Street. Church Ilill.
Sydney; and Farish Street, Wellington X.Z.
Price 3s. 6d. per packet (6 205.),
post free.
If writing, please mention T'iie Euleetix.
A
WESTERN
A I U S
!*S*
AUSTRALIA
E
ECUADOR
Fo.
u
PER
X
<
B OLIVIA
SOUTH !
-,L A
It r al
j AUSTRALIA
OtBRISB
AI bury


The hidden blessing of the Italian reverse
may be galvanising the Allies to mightier
efforts, and the Italians to mightier patriotic
impulses, sugeests that mightily wise spirit
King George IV. topnoteli Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCAROIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROU
LEWIS & WfIITTY MAKERS
No one can afford to waste.
Spend only what is necessary
and then always with an eye
to saving. Men, be practical
economise shave your-
selves.
zzzzzz
NO STROPPINO NO HONIN*
One bought to-day will save many a
shilling in a year, and hours of you.
valuable time- Many styles to
choose from. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney. _
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, nn,.
Missing Friends.
\\f ILL DUNBAR WILLIAM WYLD, late of South
W port, Queensland, or anyone kn °*T g £ E Solici .
abouts, please communicate with A. '* • * > y s
tor, Adelaide Street, Brisbane, with re eren
father's estate.
RICHARD THOMAS DUNN.
INFORMATION is required as to
whereabouts of RICHARD T
DUNN, formerly of Riversdalei larro,
ton, Otago, New Zealand, who ffas
heard of about 10 years ago, when
in Melbourne. Present address 9 .
proof of bis death (if dead). S
bis advantage. Apply in
JOHN JAMES LANE, Milton, Otag-
©
■
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
dufe b 1 * *
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Yic. horse-owners and -trainers felt
crushed and sadlike last Saturday at Flemington.
With the exception .of De Gama, formerly of M.L.,
none of the winners came from local stables.
Almoner and Woorawa, to be sure, failed badly in the
Maribvrnong Plate, but Sweet Lady, from Sydney,
carried her penalty well ahead of Tragic Star and
the consistent Outlook, though these two seem to be
about the best of the Victorian young stuff. Great
things were predicted of Tragic Star, flashest of
gallopers on the track, the first time he should get
well away from the barrier, but he proved to be
hardly the flier he was timed to be. Still the colt
is pretty certain to .outshine the filly in months to
come. Also, Almoner can be exnected to contradict
what his legs had to say in the Maribyrnong.
Lingle ran the race of his life, up to then, when
he won the Hotham Handicap, 12 furlongs in
2min. 33}sec. —exceptionally fast time for Flemington.
The dandy black was even farther back than Chrome
at the halfway post; yet when they came to make
their final effort together he was three lengths faster
than the big four-year-old. In its bearing on the
Melbourne Cup chances this event was the most in-
teresting item of the day. Lingle sweated profusely
after the gallop, as though he wanted another one or
two to ripen him, whereas Chrome seemed already
quite fit. In the Cup he would meet Lingle on 191 b.
better terms, which, with the same jockey on his
back, would surely be equivalent to several lengths
in a two-mile go. The form was rather in favor of
Chrome for the Cup, though it shortened the odds
against the long-overrated Lingle. The race appeared
to snuff out Sir Amyas and Almo, but Marculfus was
under orders to be punched along from the start, so
the hot pace left him in the extreme rear for a time.
He finished very well.
The Derby seemed to put Bronzetti out of court,
for Prince Viridis and Broken Glass passed him
whilst Biplane was making a holy show of the lot.
There was no saying whether Biplane could have won
by manv more lengths than the four which separated
him from Viridis. Probably the Maorilander could
have doubled his advantage coming down the
straight. Bronzetti was in a bad temper after the
race, and he kicked out a lot while being rubbed
down. Some of his backers must have felt like doing
a bit of it themselves.
Melbourne Stakes, with no Lanius or Lavendo in
the field, was a race between the w.f.a. battlers from
Sydney. Thana, having 81b. the best of the weights
with Cetigne, Cagou and Wallace Isinglass, was the
favorite, but the mare made a strong pace, and ran
herself to a standstill. Old Cagou outstayed her, and
then Cetigne came in his best manner and won
neatly. Westcourt’s performaince in running third
was satisfactory, but nothing to write home about.
He finished four lengths behind Cagou, anyhow. The
time for the Stakes was about 9sec. faster than a
year ago, when the course was sodden. Time for the
Hotham Handicap, by the way, was 6sees. better
than Bronzetti had made in the
question arises again as to what is stay gP' •
Boos it mean ability to finish strongly in a compara
tively slow race on a muddy course, or the power ot
maintaining a faster pace to the end of a gal op
a hard track? # *
“Mujik”: At Randwick Biplane beat the
Derby field as if they were so many hacks, and ne
did it again at Flemington. The wondeiful thin„
about the occurrences in the meantime was the
absurdly -distorted construction placed on B'O'izettis
second in the Sydney race. At Bandwick the Bron
zino colt was kept clean out of the argument until
the race was over. Then when Biplane was easing up
and there was nothing left of the nags that tned
cut him down but their tails, Bronzetti came with a
rattle through a stopping, tired procession and looked
to be doing a big thing. At that stage
citizen on the ground could have kicked his hat as
fast as the procession was moving. Then because
with a featherweight Bronzetti won at Caulfield over
a mile and a half, allegedly good judges coupled this
with the placing at Randwick, and said here was a
good thing! Provided he was well, there never was
a greater moral saddled up for a race than Biplane
in Saturdav’s Derby. Bronzetti was not fit to lun
under the scale of weights, and nothing could have
made him so in the time. And to think he is of t e
stuff to ever be as brilliant over middle distances as
the Maorilander is plain silliness. They would have
to travel farther to come together. #
Five weeks ago Harriet Graham and Glad
Eye were favorite picks in doubles, and for months
at a stretch the English mare was quoted at an
absurdly short price for the Melbourne Cup. Neither
accepted for the race. As the day approached they
were found to be dead meat for Mo. The rise o
Lanius coincided with the decline of Harriet, who
may have been honestly over-rated during the winter
months. But the evidence of something having gone
wrong with the cobby mare didn’t wholly account
for her drop in punters’ estimation. They were sud-
denly struck by the fact that she was badly handi-
capped in comparison with Lanius, a horse with a
brilliant record as a weight carrier.
* * *
When the big gun went down in the Cop.
the groans of the stricken punter could be heard
from Darwin to Warrnambool. Providence only
knows how much cash had been heaped on to
Lanius since the paper boom about him commenced,
but it was a mighty heavy load. Still, Westcourt,
the winner, came into the betting with a run last
week and gave the stable a good solid win. Iwo
years ago, in Patrobas’s year, he just missed win-
ning, and since then had done little or nothing,
though he had bad luck in the Metropolitan. Ovv nei
Dan Seaton, of Sydney, whose string last year in-
cluded Wolaroi, was confident all along that what-
ever beat his nag would annex the Cup.
At the October meeting of the Herbert
River Jockey Club (N.Q.) a horse named Moore-
berry carried 9st., but no less than 4st. 111 b. of it
was lead, sand and heavy stock saddle. The rest
was boy. The urchin wore a couple of pairs of long
pants to assist in making up weight. He won, too.
BEN DEELEY, who rode the Derby winner.
It is not often that a double is won on
Sydney suburban courses, but the deed was done at
Canterbury Park on Saturday, and by a recent per-
former at the ponies, too.. This was Parsing, who
started at an outside price in the Flying, and was
later on backed down to s’s to beat a field of moder-
ates in the Club Handicap. The win in the first race
demanded that a penalty of 71b. be carried in the
second, and this condition was met in a sort of way
by putting an apprentice aboard and claiming 71b.
allowance for him. As the same rider was carried in
the Flvirg, these proceedings made the penaltv and
apprentice allowance business look a bit more foolish
than usual.
A punter who finds his luck in among the
Svdney ponies doesn’t have to grumble about lack of
chances. At Ascot on Saturday afternoon there was
a mixed horse and pony programme of 15 races. As
about 200 nags were in the scramble, and only two
of the races went beyond six furlongs, sport of this
kind is obviously giving great encouragement to the
breeding of thoroughbreds.
“Quan”; Another woman jockey—Kitty
Yeomans (Forbes, N.P.W.), daughter of the old-
time rider Billy Yeomans. For some years she has
been a well-known horse-pilot at Shows, but it was
not till a few weeks ago that she took to the race
track. Her first day’s record was a win, a second, a
third and a fourth.
• * * *
As a sporting event the fly by N. S. Wales
State amateur instructor Stutt from Richmond to
the Yarra beat any horserace that ever was held.
Consequently it attracted perfunctory notice in the
intervals of discussion about the V.R.C. Derby and
Cup. At Goulburn Stutt parted with one of his
wings and Minister for Education James, who was a
passenger, but was in such a hurry to get on that
he couldn't wait for repairs. But Stutt made a dead
heat of it to Melbourne with James and the train, all
the same. Average speed on the trip, about 70 miles
an hour.
* * * *
.T. O’Shea, Maoriland’s premier horse-
pilot, has been lately nursing a broken arm, in
which the bone refused to knit. Prior to this, 0 Shea
had been addicted to riding Desert Gold, but at
Trentham the other day he had a look on while
Australian Hector Gray steered the maie home
the Champion Plate. „
A chestnut filly foaled at Hastings (M.L.)
the other day is a sister to Desert Gold, wherefoie
owner Lowry has been struggling to estimate how’
much coin the young lady intends to
Desert Gold to date has raked in something like
£lB,OOO. . *
* * *
“Mujik”: Whenever a horse wins a race
the time is obviously ripe to examine its pedigree.
The results are of course very interesting But why
limit this to winners? If there are useful lessons to
be gained from knowing that the first animal home
has a double strain of this or that blood, is outbred
from a certain line or is inbred to another, or has a
parentage going back to a particular taproot, it must
obviously be equally, or even more, illuminating to
know the similar facts in relation to the animal
which runs last. I don’t want to discount the im-
portance of research into breeding, but it is clear
that whatever conclusions are arrived at from con-
templating the pedigrees of winners must be more
or less cock-eyed unless the significance of the breed-
ing of losers is given proper weight. W hen it is
established that nags bred in a certain way have
won a given number of races, the natural thing tor
breeders and buyers is to keep to what looks like the
sure thing. But how about it all if attention to the
tail-end of the procession discloses that the mokes in
that locality were built of the same material?
Breeding can be only a poor guide to buyers until
particulars bearing upon the success of certain mix-
tures have been amplified by information about
failures. #
“Glen H.” : Instead of allowing a number
of film-producing firms to take pictures of the Mel-
bourne Cup, tbe V.R.C. this year called for tenders
for the cinernatographing privileges; whereupon a
number of picture-makers waxed indignant and
refused to tender. Needless to say, there was no
difficulty about selling the filming rights for a
substantial sum. “As publishers of what are in
reality animated newspapers, we claim to have the
same rights as other branches of the press,” an angry
film-maker informed Melbourne Herald. “There is
no question of boycott: we will still film the other
racing fixtures. But the V.R.C. has itself boycotted
the Cup and robbed it of the fine advertisement
secured by the event being generally filmed.” Now,
if all the* newspapers could only be induced to boy-
cott the war!
There is an element of grim humor in
Albert Lloyd and Jimmy Clabby battling for the
heavyweight championship of the Commonwealth, for
apart from every other consideration neither of them
bears any more resemblance to a large-sized champion
than to a fashion-plate. And that James should be
able to outpoint the other party ought to just about
settle Mr. Lloyd’s claim to be considered more than
a hefty third-rater. The affray took place at Mel-
bourne on Saturday, and was a dreary business
because Clabby is a wily old bird and Lloyd doesn’t
know the first thing about dealing with wily old
birds or putting his youthful strength to the best
use. The disturbance was waged in the manner
selected by the American, and after he had handed
out a lesson in boxing and other things, the referee
worked out his arithmetic and hoisted the Stars and
Stripes.
* * * *
Tommy Uren is getting into khaki. This
will give Thomas the distinction of being the first
and only Australian making a living as a pug to
weigh out for a go with Fritz. To at least a couple
of other specialists in the business the time is now
rotten ripe for someone to address a few appro-
priate romarKs. Meanwhile the moan of Sam Austin
in N’York Police Gazette, that “many of our lead-
ing pugilists are taking advantage of every legal
technicality to evade the call for military service,”
probably coincides with what most people expected.
Gone to the pack at last —Sam Langford,
the sawed-off Hercules who brought his ebony face
and heavy wallop to Australia five or six years ago
when nigs were in the boom. Sam’s steady job in
life was fighting Sam McVea. They had 14 scraps.
He had been living on his wallop for 15 years, and
now at 31 is just an obese darky too short-winded to
even get through a 10-round stall. But he was a
horribly unpleasant individual to assault in his day.
“Adelaide” : Talking of Baragwanath, the
present Albert Park CVic.) candidate, the name
gave S. Australians a shock a few years back. One
of the family—this one, very likely—came across
as manager of a Vic. cricket XI. It was just when
Rabindranath had come to the front as a poet, and
S.A. pronounced the Victorian’s name to rhyme,
with the accent on the “rag,” and openly marvelled
at a Hindoo being given the position. Then thtre
arrived a large Cornishman, who laughed at our
fears and told us to call it Barra-gwonneth.
* * * *
F. Merchant (Petersham), who smote 74
v. Gordon on Saturday, is the most promising colt
in Sydney premiership cricket. ■ Although the wicket
was doing its bit, Merchant and A. G. Campbell (53)
added 110 for the seventh wicket. Last season, Mer-
chant (100) and Russell (109) were mixed up in a
hurricane performance of 162 for the fourth wicket
against Middle Harbor. O. P. Asher (Sydney)* who
also imparted a spaikle to Saturday’s play by taking
seven wickets for 74 against Middle Harbor, did
similar tricks last year—seven for 49 v. North Syd-
ney and seven for 37 v. Glebe.
* * * »
Two lads busy in Sydney schools cricket
this season are Brown, who scored 215 out of 363 for
Newington against King’s ; and IV. S. Bain, of Syd-
ney High School, who has amassed 407 in five
innings; including scores of 154, 110 and 99. Both
youngsters are good bowlers.
* * * *
Miss Holly Mace put the hallmark on her
title of amateur champion sprinteress at Sydney last
week by showing her back hair to the opposition in
the 50yds. and 75vds. N.S.W. championships. Within
the past couple of weeks Miss Mace also won the
100yds. championship and a sheaf of handicaps from
scratch. The 100yds. journey lasted only 12 l-ssec.,
which is merely the fraction behind the she-world’s
record.
* * * *
There’s not a prouder man in Australia
than E. Mitchell, of Peak Hill (N.S.W.). Two
daughters—Ella and Hilda —have proved themselves
to be the crack rifleshots of their sex in the State.
A third daughter—Dulcie—picked up the rifle the
other day. and of 10 shots seven were bulls and two
inners—4B out of 50. Old-man Mitchell ought to
feel safe with a bodyguard like this on the premises.
Passed out, Arthur Griffith, well known
and respected in the sailing, swimming and football
rings of Sydney. It’s claimed for him that it was
he who popularised open-boat sailing on Port Jack-
son. He stood out, too, as a water-polo referee a i
Soccer knew him as the Associations auditor f{, r
years. “Griff” has been writing on these snort, t
the Sydney Sportsman since the first conv V
hawked. Only 47 when the Reaper beckoned. a?
The annual pigeon flight from Melbourne
to Adelaide had rotten luck this year. \| )0llt
birds were released at six in the morning on
day, October 20. Last year they had little ’to l
but sit on the atmosphere and get blown home (inf!
miles) the same afternoon. This time they struck
heavy rain and a terrific thunderstorm. The firt
bird staggered home late on Sunday afternoon and
remarked gloomily that anybody who foliowe
would be lucky. A few more straggled in durinff
the week ; but there was a great waste of good pigeon
Gerald Halpin, the Ma State’s amateur
bike champion, got a hustle on at Sydney Eight
hour sports last week in winning the mile handicap
from scratch in 2min. 3 2-ssec. But although he
picked up a heat of the half-mile in 59sec. the
outmarkers made the pace in the final at ,
57 3-ssec. gait, and he missed a place. Halpin is
a fine wheelman, but the handicappers suspected him
of being a flying-machine.
The possibilities of motor-cars fitted with
aviation engines have been demonstrated by a flier
named Reder in New York. Mounted on' a Pack-
hard driven by an aeroplane engine, Reder covered
the quarter-mile in 6.95ec., or over 130 miles an
hour. He finished the half-mile and mile in
13.955ec. and 28.755ee., which work out at 129 and
125 miles an hour. Ten miles turned to wake in
4min. 50.885ec., which means that he was loitering
along at 123.7 m.p.h. All circular-track records;
and as the reckless Reder will attempt to improve
them, his friends had better not let their mourning
c lothes get moth-eaten.
A. Parsons, the Vic. motor-bikist, is con-
sidering an offensive on the Melbourne-to-Sydney
motor-cycle record. Four or five years ago a young
man named Bolger, of Magga (N.S.W.), hurried
between the two capitals in 23hr. 41min., and won
the Dunlop Co.’s gold watch that had been waiting
for the first hero who did the distance in under
24 hours. Bolger’s modest performance still stands,
but considering the improvements in motor-bikes
during the last few years, Parsons ought to find a
machine that will make Bolger’s mount look like a
dray by *
“Karee” : Bill , of the umpth, was
recuperating on Lemnos, with the help of much Dago
cognac, and pay-day being afar off and dim, he sold
the boots donated by a generous Government, and
commandeered a pair of sandshoes which had seen
hotter days, from a more or less willing Greek.
Next day' a general parade was ordered by some
brass-hat, regardless of the heartburnings caused by
the temporary breaking-up of two-up schools, and
Bill’s “boots”' were It, The G.O.C. nearly had a fit,
and the C. 0., after pressing his goggled eyes back
on their hinges, bellowed: “You, there, the third
man, haven’t you get any boots?” “No.” “No
what!” “No boots.” Then the Pommy G.O.C.
fell dead —at least I wish he had.
* * * *
“Lantana”: Here’s fishing! While out
for snapper with a gut-line last week, IV. Taylor,
of Coff’s Harbor, landed a 7ft. 6in. grey-nurse shark
after a battle lasting over half an hour. The lan-
guage of both parties was most blanky during the
proceedings.
“C. JAY.” : A swordfish captured recently,
in a hauling-net at the Red Rock, Grafton (N.S.W.),
measured 16ft.., taking in the “saw,” which was sft.
long and Bin. wide. The minnow’s girth was sft.
6in., and its weight between 4001 b. and 5001 b. Eight
young ones, each about 2ft. Bin. long, were having a
ride inside.
“The Emu”: The Sydney Gazette of
April 2, 1803, recorded that “on Sunday morning
last T. Biggers rode to town from Hawkesburv, a
distance of more than 40 miles, within the space of
three hours, having left the latter place at t o clock
and rather before 10 arrived safe in Pitt’s Row.
Worked out it averages between 13 and 14 miles per
hour. Pity the scribe did not give the jockeys
weight.
THE “DEAD BIRD FOR THE LAST.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Punter, when your luck is out
Review your sanguine Past —
How many times you did not doubt
The wisdom of the tipping tout,
Who sowed the hopes that grew so high,
And presently were withered by
Misfortune’s chilly blast!
O Punter, if your luck be out,
Heed not the bloke who raves about
A “dead bird for the last’’!
O Punter, when you’ve done it in,
And funds are running low
Since Bluenose, owned by men of sin,
Was somehow “not allowed to win,”
And Greenear (as you grieve to learn)
Was “bumped when coming round the turn,”
And never got a show ;
O Punter, flee the bookies’ din —
Leave other lambs for them to skin,
And gaily homeward go!
“A dead bird for the last!” O Lord!
The bookies love it well.
Rash punters rush, with one accord
To risk the loss they can’t afford.
The odds are short; yet, in despair,
They grab “the chance of getting square”—
Then Fortune rings their knell.
That “dead bird for the last” ! O Lord !....
Some busted punters go abroad,
And some —to prison cell.
Five losers are enough to back —
Five losers, whipped and spurred.
Your star shines not; your sky is black;
Let others, with the luck you lack,
Who won some money on the Cup,
Count cash in hand and play it up,
By warnings undeterred.
But, as for you, friend Joe or Jack,
For one day’s racing on the track
Five losers are enough to back.
Touch not the sixth dead bird.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


5
Lot Me You Stronger
and Healthier
.»rXr , “ tlr *” d lnlere ' ti "« -Jit™ •< scientific
S t^,Z, s '!^:. ia rich - rirtfc b, ~ s
BUT, in order to obtain these benefits, vou must learn the
correct and scientific method of physical culture You
cannot read until you’re taught—you cannot exercise
properly until you learn the correct methods!
■l y will strongly appeal to you, on account of
ts simplicity and the rapid results it secures. I aim at
bmldmg up the muscles, both internal and external, in a
thorough and scientific manner. No one part is built up
at the expense of another, but your weak spots will have
special attention.
My Postal Course of Health
and strength Culture
will bring you renewed health and Strength. The exercises
iou fecene will be those iriost suited to your individual
physique, just as the particulars you furnish tell me you
require.
My booklet, entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM
SELFcCULTURE,” teßs all about my methods, fee" et“l
should like to send you a copy. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement, and send ‘it to me, with
three penny stamps for postage. 1 will know what Vou
mean.
REG* L. (snowy) BARER,
649 Belmont buildings, Sydney.
“ The afl-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
MANILA MANILAS
MANUFACTURED IN MANILA
M b ||:t
In' the following Renowned Factories
COMPANY GENERAL.
Especiales (in Foil) .... 12/6 Box of 25.
t’effectos .i. s. >. it : iii 11/6 » a,»
Cameiias ««..««. n » 1 0/- ,t ah
MONTANESA (Extra Heavy*
weights).
Boxes of 100 31/6
LA MINERVA (Watt & Co.).
Specially Recommended.
Perfectos ............ 11/* Box of 25.
Cheroots (Cortado Reina) 24/- ,t 100.
Postage extra on above: Boxes of 25, 6d.
Boxes of 100, 1 /-
A. KEBBLEWHITE,
Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House,”
Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
6*
a
Pg
fHECHOIC!
OFfHt PEOPLE
BgagragangiiHga
All You
Need to
, Look foi*
on a Motor Cycle
Is the Name———
ondim
Catalogue "D" with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. C™:
109-113 BUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
532
V.'
s
' *«<,
§t^
Jv'//up u>/S/l-
NATIONAL
BENZINE
and from the first mile to last of trip your engine
will yield you that cleanly, sweet-running, responsive and
abundant power that ONLY National Benzine CAN
PRODUCE. Its
Greater Power and Consistency,
Instant Responsiveness and
Unmatchable Economy
make “National” the ideal fuel for Motor-car, Motor-
cycle, Motor-boat and Aeroplane alike.
L (Obtainable all Garages &, Store Keepers.)
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
c
#
11 ■■■lll
n
lIWII
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
liif Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION —Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
m
S/a
m
.V *
c£T:{?i:xx.-
i? *e~
Vi V
.A:
mm
SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE
r «
l Somewhere jin France your brothers, sons, relatives,
-/or- friends are fighting powerful foes. Not only are
'/fney opposed by an enemy equipped with every
device to military science', but
they have to contend with another opponent whose
attacks are even more insidious and efforts
are unceasing—.“ General Winter.” '
■**- ’--v I ■ \ Hi. ! \/X y
Military Vest has proved aipoon andA#' 1
y ? Necessity to men engaged in Trench Warfarfe chirin
at:'"—.. Aj[l7* -v' _ - ••■• !■ 1* 11 • _
the Winter season, and to send an Australian poiau
one of these Garments is to confer a personal
Oh him and to materially assist the cause of the; j\lhes«f.t.s ( ,4*.'
.• J .y&i&foii&ii v..
' ? **'<*
- The garments quoted below have all proved\thei£!r. _>
worth ip actual use on Active Service. ft jSOI
Sheepskin Vests - 14/6
’ Wool Back and Front. Selected
Pelt*. Warm, and will last a
lifetime.
Tan Leather Vests, 21/-
Soft, Chrome Tanned—Water-
proof. Khaki or Tweed Lined. 'V-
Rabbit Fur Vests - 15 -
Specially treated to render vermin-1
proof. . Khaki or Tweed Lined.
Flannel Lined 17/6, Waterproof 19/')§/
Tan Leather
With Half-Sleeves
\ Tweed Luted, j Full
L »' - \ v
For an Extra Payment of 1/3 in the' case df
y 'thecCaae of Sheepskin Verts~6r
in Strong White Calico and fori
\ %
heather
will
sew
er
w<;
the
to
L.
as»\ ■
MV.
FiindersStr
254
SO*
. w.
UvtVl
"W
ml
WML
£
ip
ms
, V ✓
A
rii
/Z
M
m


The Lake Breeze Motor
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, hand some,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity, and is port-
able. Send for circu-
lar. Order early.
Agents wanted.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
'‘■Navy Brand
WORCESTERSHIRE
: S:
s£3
mm
mm
mm
mm
mm
SAUCE
A Piquant Product,
DELICIOUS and
APPETISING.
If You Like the
“NAVY" SAUCE
Try a
Bottle
of the
“NAVY”
PICKLES
You will like
them, too.
Write for sample bottle, enclos-
ing three penny stamps for postage,
to J. PARRY cG CO., Waterloo,
Sydney.
Name v
Address
BELLEVUE HOTEL
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
Grease Lubricators.
Qtc-SLVyv
■SVST
Specif y. . ..
"DESLYN”
(Reg. Trade Mark)
GREASE CUPS
and see you get them.
Scientific, Economical
Easily Applied.
Used by N.S.W.
Government.
AUSTRALIAN MADE by
D. F. GLYNN MFG. CO., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Wholesale only). ’Phone 7680.
Write for Particulars and list of Supply Houses.
Efficient
Motor-Car
Lighting
A perfect method of motor-car and launch
lighting and ignition is made available by the
ft
m
0
Id
©
Edison
Storage
Battery.
This battery gives
faultless service under
the most trying condi-
tions. Does not “give
out’’ at a critical
period, requires no
tedious or expert at-
tention, and can be
charged at any con-
venient opportunity—
no matter how much
of the former charge
is remaining, and can
be discharged to ex-
haustion without in-
jury.
Full details mailed post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
The Forty-ninth Report of the Directors of the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited,
to the Shareholders at the Forty-ninth Ordinary General Meeting, held at the Bank,
Piesented Melbourne, at noon on Tuesday, 30th October, 1917.
REPORT.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Forty-ninth Report, with a Balance-sheet and
, 1 , . t, oss for the Half-year ended 30th September, 1917, duly audited.
Statement of Profit and Boss tor uie na interest accrued on den
AftCT providing expenses of management, bonus to staff interest accrued on deposits,
" .... V.ivnnhtinn. income taxes and land taxes, and making provision for bad and
Alter providing iui ,
bills current, tax on note circulation, income taxes and
doubtful debts, the net profit amounted to ..
Brought forward from 31st March, 1917 ..
rebate
, £27,826 9
6,132 18
£33,959 8
Vn „r Directors propose to pay out of the half-yearly profits the following dividend:—
On Preference Shares at he rate of 7 per cent, per annum £10,641 10
On Ordinary Shares at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum ~ . . .. 4,733 5
The balance of the half-year’s profits they recommend to be applied as follows:-
To Reserve Fund (making it £290,000) .. • l i’nnn n
Profit and L«« Aocoun, by im U
£33,959 8 0
Melbourne. 17th October, 1917.
J. WILSON, General Manager.
TRAtAnCE-SHEET OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Fo/the Half-year Ending 30th September, 1917. (Including London Office to 31st August, 1917.)
Dr.
To Capital Paid-rip, viz.: —
31,184 Preference
Shares, paid in
cash to £9/15/-
per share.. . . £304,044
77,278 Ordinary
Shares of £4/5/-
eaeh paid in
cash to £l/15/-
per share.. .. 135,236
0 0
10 0
£439,280 10 0
To Reserve Fund.. 290.000 0 0
To Profit and Loss 23,959 8 0
To Notes in Circulation
To Bills in Circulation
To Balances Duo to other Banks . .
To Covernnient Deposits—-
Not bearing inter-
est, £57,343/0/11 ;
bearing interest,
£468,804/9/8.. £526,147 10 7
To other Deposits,
Rebate, and inter-
est accrued—
Not bearing
interest,
£1,802,336/12/6 ;
bearing interest,
£2,132,427/11/8 3,934,764 4 2
£753,239 18
18,179 0
198,206 13
35 8
4,160,911 14
0
0
1
3
9
£5,430,572 14 1
To Contingent Lia-
bilities, as per
contra ■ ■ £279,000 10 1
Cr.
By Coin, Bullion,
Austral ian
notes, cash at
bankers, and
money at call_
in London .. £1,509,786 17
By British Trea-
sury Bills,
£250,000; by
British Wa r
Loan Debentures,
£135,395/973 ;
by Common-
wealth of Aus-
tralia War Loan
Debentures, Vic-
toria Govern-
ment Stock and
Debentures, Met-
ropolitan Board
of Works and
Municipal De-
benturcs,
£143,328/19/6
By Bills and Re-
mittances in
transitu and in
London
By notes and bills
"of other banks
By balances due
from other
banks
By Stamps
525,724 8
188,307 15
3,497 0
26,801 12
1,392 13
3
0
9
0
8
8
By real estate, consisting of —
Bank premises
Other real estate
By bills discounted, and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts ..
£2,258,510 8 1
188,610 9 1
7,585 0 0
2,975,866 16 11
By liabilities of
customers and
others in re-
spect of contin-
gent liabilities,
as per contra
£5,430,572 14 1
£279,009 10 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including sal-
aries, bonus to staff, rents, repairs,
stationery, taxes, etc.) . . . . £43,312 4 9
To transfer to Reserve Fund . . 10.000 0 0
To balance .. .. .. .. 23,959 8 0
£77,271 12 9
By balance brought for-
ward from 31st
March, 1917 . . £22,507 14 11
Less Dividend paid
for half-year ended
31st March, 1917,
£15,374/16/3 :
Less amount trans-
ferred to Officers’
Provident Fund,
£lO-00 .. . . 16,374 16 3
By gross profits for the half-year
after allowing for interest accrued
on deposits, rebate on bills current,
and making provision for bad and
doubtful debts
£6,132 18 . 8
71,138 14 1
£77,271 12 9
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
By Balance brought forward .. £280,000 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss .. 10,000 0 0
£290,000 0 0
£s#
hr
V/////////////A
V////////A
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
99
it
Underwear
r To see the Jason Brand on a garment
is to know that Australasian wool, skilled
British labour, and expert fashioning have
gone to its making.
New ‘'Olympic** Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 67 <f>
i
M
%
y jag
<§>
SOAPS
insane skin loveliness & add a zest to the toilet.
PRICES, London. Liverpool. Manchester, Glasgow, Etc.
Icb£,aurv-j
i£> a nr\<a.H-er or
/ perj/e‘ch ODnxplcyior^
ITIIIE thing that the people should have
JL been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. 4 re
let the Ravisher of Belgium «’ trt
lifting a hand?
Business, Robbery, etc.
“E.W.” : Someone has calculated that there
are 3,000,000 tons of salt lying on Lake
Hart, alongside the East-West railway.
Anyhow, there’s enough to keep Australia
going for a while, and some of it Was coming
down the line before the winter rains made
it too wet to work. Collecting the salt is a
simple job when the lake bed’s dry. You run
a tramline out and then just shovel up the
salt, which forms a layer about 4in. deep,
and throw it into little trucks. Of course
there’s a good deal of mud and sand mixed
with it, though some of it looks pretty
enough to eat right away, with its lovely
rose-pink crystals. #
Three and a half years ago Ashford, then
Mas Minister for Agriculture, offered a
prize for the first purebred cow that pro-
duced 10001 b. or over of butter within 12
months. It looked a soft snap for the
Department at the time, and rude remarks
were made anent the Minister’s spectacular
offer. Now, to the surprise of most people
interested, not one but two cows have during
the past 12 months turned out the necessary
quantity and more. One is a milking short-
horn from the Darbalara herd at Gundagai;
the other a Jersey bred by McDonald, of
Ingleburn. There is no question as to the
genuineness of the performances. It was a
straight go under supervision by officers of
the Department. The prize has not vet been
allotted, as it is a condition that the winner
must help to keep up the calf population
and drop an offspring within 18 months of
the last time she did the same thing. So all
hands await: a domestic event with anxiety
■—there is £lOO concerned : the baby bonus
is small potatoes by comparison. The, quan-
tity yield is a record for Australia and is
not far off the world’s record. The short-
horn gave 17,3641 b. of milk, yielding
1021.591 b. butter ; the Jersey 18,1971 b. milk
= 1011.921 b. butter. Contrary to all prece-
dent, and to the astonishment of cow folk, the
Shorthorn gave a higher percentage of butter-
fat than the Jersey—s per cent, as against
4.8 per cent. Both are very solid. The in-
teresting feature is that the Jersey puts up
a new record for Australia in milk produc-
tion. 18,1971 b.. while the shorthorn does the
same in butter. At Is. 24d. per lb. for
butter and 2d. per gallon for skimmed milk
the returns from these energetic females
work out at £75 11s. 6d. and £75 9s. 6d.,
close going, and figures which are streets
ahead of the creamiest dream of the most
ancient cow cocky.
“D.F.” : One of the later ocean-going craft
turned out in Tasmania was the barque
Harriet McGregor, launched at the Domain
slip (Hobart) in 1872. She was a regular
trader between Hobart and London, going
away with w T ool and coming back with
“notions,” up till 1889. Alex. Leslie, who
captained her for several years, used to have
his wife living on board, and of their six
children four were born on the old hooker-
one in the Derwent, one in London River, one
off the Scilly Islands, and the fourth out in
the North Atlantic. The Harriet McGregor
was no slouch, and once ran from London to
the Derwent in 79 days.
The problems which S. Aus. may expect to
have to battle with if it cuts a way through
the sandhills to make an artificial mouth for
the Torrens, are faintly suggested by the
trouble which Adelaide is having with the
silt in the same small river where it has
been dammed into a lake in the middle of the
city. The weir, made in 1882, has made a
great improvement in the appearance and the
sport of Adelaide ; but it is now recognised
that the scouring sluices are altogether too
small, and floods like those prevalent lately
can deposit more silt in a week than a
dredge can raise in half a year. The only
thing, reports the City'Engineer, is to put
in two 20ft. gates, at an estimated cost of
£7OOO. #
A queer will case has just been decided
by Justice Cussen in Melbourne. A Caul-
field widow who died in 1914 left equal shares
of her estate to her adopted daughter, a
nephew named Thomas Martin and another
nephew named Robert Martin. It happened,
however, that there were two nephews named
Thomas Martin, one at Tatura, the other at
Brunswick, and the Law was called upon
to decide which of the two the testator
meant. It doesn’t matter for the purposes
of this paragraph, but Tatura Thomas won
the sweep.
“Date Farm”: There’s money in philan-
thropy sometimes. A squatter in a lost
corner of W.A. has got himself appointed a
protector of aborigines and has most of the
local nigs, rounded up about his placq. He
gets 6d. a head from the State for “protect-
ing” them, and they do nearly all the work
on the station and catch most of their own
tucker. Don’t ask me any more why the
heathen rage!
In Melbourne since the coal restrictions
came into force the stuff sent through the
(/as Co.’s pipes is of poorer quality than
ever. The gas-man is now known as the
aviator. He is the only airman of our
acquaintance.
RIME OF A SENTIMENTAL HERETIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have lost all faith in schisms and in futile cat-
echisms ;
I believe that Orthodoxy’s run to seed ;
Vague ecclesiastic warning leaves me cold, and only
scorning
Do I foster for the Athanasian Creed.
As the Dogmatists' Hereafter seems a thing foi
quips and laughter
(After having studied it from every phase),
Let me choose my own salvation.... in my next
re-incarnation
I would like to be a pair of ladies’ stays!
The slim waists of Amaryllis, Mabel, Maude or
dainty Phyllis
Could I then enfold without a yea or nay:
You can twang your harps in Heaven, but I’d.- be a
small-sized seven,
Hipless, straight-front silken corset any day!
N.S.W,
THE IMMATURE MALE.


*
i-
: <JS» ; ' I
Ml
££
/d'Ji . \
k
-
■v
' ~
%
§il
M
w
hi > I
*-■
tr&Uluii
♦ t-\V
V'
IL
/
•^5
vzsjm.
mui, , •
s^s
A^sssiwo;
' V
J£ts2
!■//
see
i/Jii:
. '--*
~<ss;
v^w
nwt 1
!/
«fi
£
•vx
is
0
/.*
3
K'J
///
111 A
V*
fffr'
=^t*
A f
A > JSL
& *»-
I £
%
'•
'X
W)
Sr),
*1
rsSSJT,
k\: 1 '7? \
1' .1 ■'//», '
I??
■iSk
VA
VA
#¥■
anm fp?
H 1
m
%
7/
if
r
■
■i
'M
<h
mg: m$
m
%
74
4?
•: *
%
2*' *ir
k n l
/
VF*
%
i#
;«✓//
-■ r.
VW;
|||
h f ///4
X
V?J
>: v
%
V
(H
U-'.-l
sg
m
'OTi
s:
\hh 'lii
» i/z/rtl
aVi j!, M
m>i list
m
/ <; ; »’
•‘%V:
■*r.
#*>
#//
&
h
5P5
w
arearoLlß
All
s€?
inu
V; 1
wr
from C fc)]cs 6
*<u
4C
on marc
..
,-fl
THIS charming selection —perhaps not intrinsically a very
great composition —has spread the sweetness of its
haunting strains over the whole world. It possesses a depth
of feeling so elusive that frequently the finer effects are
lost. In its execution the expression is its all.
With a Beale Player-piano you will
find that it is not at all hard to play
music with characteristics similar to
the “Barcarolle.” It is an instrument
essentially responsive to one’s best
musical thoughts, and is so sympa-
thetic that complete, soul-satisfying
rendition becomes almost instinctive.
Showrooms;
333 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
.ecile
' -&G? UP
George St
Sydne;
Factories:
41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET,
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
And a. Bathurst, Orange. Ltsmore. Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. Victoria : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros. Hobart.
Maples. Launceston South Aus.ralta : John Evans Ltd. Adela.de. Queensland : 90 92 Queen Street. Brisbane. Ken, Street. Maryborough.
Flinders Street, Townsville Rockhampton. Sydney Street, Mackay. Cairns.


THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.—The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment-the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phni\<? In#,| y times as efficient
meaia mi riume aiui powerful as the oW
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed hr a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 CiEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Ino. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Hansen’s Rheumatic R^fr
“For three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) C. A. ROSLER, J.P.
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
Wholesale: ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY;
ROCKE, TOMPSiTT, MELBOURNE.
/QUEtJiSLAri
sm
~ =
S.R-
MMi
A Book of
192 P^ges
C. L. l_ ef D
POCKET
QUEENSLAND”
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED
Telling all abouf rfy
Millions of Acres
of ferhle land for
intending •seflier.s
will be sen! you
by filling m fhe
Coupon below.
A feme. .
Address
QC/EZSYSLAHD rrvrELLfGEnCE
a. TOURIST BUGEAU, 6WSBAHE
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Do You Clean Your Teeth
or Merely Brush Them?
However much you brush your teeth
the most important parts are beyond
the reach of mechanical contact.
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
can do more than this. When moist-
ened it liberates oxygen, and this
powerful agent permeates every recess
and cavity—right down to the hidden
spots where decay germs mostly get
started.
Beyond this, Calox is inexpressibly
refreshing; it tones up the gums,
neutralises acid secretions, and—last
but not least —imparts a striking bril-
liancy to the teeth.
Try Calox To=day Free.
Send this ad. with your name and
address and two penny stamps for
return postage to Calox Dept., Geo.
Wills and Co., Ltd., 480 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and receive a two-weeks’
supply free.
Calox is sold in handsome nickel-
top non-wasting containers, and is
procurable from
All Chemists and Leading Stores.
F.B/11/’l7,
i
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
The “Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The “Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make.
They both have pigskin seat, the “G.S.”
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle.
£7(O/6 Complete.
without Stirrups.
£6196
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 13/6; post, i/.
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, &d.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or, if in
Australia, Nearest Railway Station.
The Kemp Saddle
AS USED BY
PROFESSOR KEMP
OF
BUCK JUMPING FAME.
In this saddle it is impossible for
be thrown on to head of saddle*
also has all the benefits of stock
rider to
while it
kneepads
without their disadvantages. See how the pads are brought
high up, level with the pommel. The seat and skirts are
made in one piece of kip leather, making a wonderfully
comfortable seat. The fittings included are Solid Nickel
3B Stirrups, Bevelled Leathers and Folded Girth.
£Bl5/ - Complete, or £B/5/ - without Stirrups.
Freight Free to any Port or Railway Station in N. S. Wales
Cash with order.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake.
But such dreams of boots, up-to-date,
dainty, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and play in short-fronted, high-heeled, su&de-
topped boots like the Bostock style here illus-
trated.
It is a smart little boot, there is no doubt
about that, and every bit as comfortable as it is
smart. The beautifully fitting last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who have
never imagined they could wear a short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is, how jolly it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range of
styles to select from, ali as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model, and all safe to w r ear w'ell and
feel as peculiarly one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6476
~ V
v
t -k
*0
*0
None srenuine unless
stamped “Bostock.”
See that the r>ame “Bostock
is stamped on the soles.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. Fof service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set. .
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible to
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewfl'
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes. crude chalks and chare
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDEXTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweet® 11
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay;-
EUDEXTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube ever}
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROC T 'E. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.^
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Fly the Coop: Reads too much like a
riddle. But we’d like a par. in plain language about
the whole position.... X.: Thanks; but it would
eat; too much space.... Halli: You assert that that
verse is the latest from America. Well, we assert
that Sunflower Sam sang it to ragtime to soothe the
savage breast of the original owner of Dead Man’s
Gulch.... Gron: Yes; too late.... The Emu: Not
much interest. Returned... .J. 8.8.: He isn’t
worth making all that bad verse about... .Pet:
Good enough; but prior publication bars'it. Inci-
dentally, what a fine collection all the little papers
published on all the “troopers” would make!
Who’ll scratch it together—the Defence Department
or some public library? It would be worth untold
money in a hundred years. But the longer it is
delayed the more difficult the job will be....T.M.:
Don’t know; last one is as old as Adam’s mistress.
.... Annabelle McG.: No, Annabelle, we don’t know.
Keep it dark, will you?... .E.C.8.: Can’t reprint....
Reader: Write to Sydney Museum.... Sheila: The test
was doubtful; but, following experience and instinct,
Judge Backhouse was unquestionably correct.
There’s no man on the Bench readier to give the
under-dog the benefit of a doubt... .C.J.W.: Better
send a copy of the paper.... W. Rogers (France):
No; sorry. Good luck... .W.M.: (1) U.S.A.,
2,973,890 sq. miles; (2) Australia, 2,974,581 sq.
mjlcs. .. .Hector R. M.: Send it to a Melbourne
daily... .0.H.L.: Too big a subject to be tossed off
in that way... .Four-by-Two: Hardly worth while
n0w.... Birregurra: No ; given as printed. The
samples quoted seem to be enough....G. Spence:
Thanks... .Bellerive: The “Toad” is a charming
item:—
One sunny day I did quietly survey
A toad upon the end of a log,
Greedily devouring a writhing worm—
In the style of the croaking frog; *
In the sunlight’s glow he hopped to and fro
To digesteth he’s carrion prey,
When disturbed by a sound, the viper did bound,
And did softly glideth away.
. ...H.H.8.: This one goes very ponderously....
A.R.D.: Your opinion about it doesn’t seem to mat-
ter to a. skyscraping extent if that’s your own notion
of poetry.... A. J.: Not up.... \ .S. A.: Not our
style... .E.M.R.: Nothing... .N.A.E.: Take more
care; you’ve got promising qualities. .. .L.E.P.:
Rather commonplace; but it looks as if you might
do better... ,R.D.: You win this week’s D.C:M.—
Dirtiest Copy Medal. A gleam here and there....
Backsheesh: A long way 0ff»...W.C.: “Wanderer's
Love” is very thin.... Sara Elizabeth: If you found
dirt there you brought it in your own mind....
Animadversor: You haven’t the knack... .G.R.H.:
None in “Joy.”. .. . Jimbill: Pretty lumpy in thought
and treatment. .. .G.P.M.: Not much in it; but if
you’re only 15, keep on stoking your mind and try
again in five- years’ time. .. . A.C.: Ha, ha! So
you’ve discovered, too, that Kitchener is dead!
Verse heavy and dull. .. .M.R.: The triolet isn't
much of a form if you want to say things; but
if you use it, it must be perfect. Your rhymes
are bad—.S.C.F.: Weak handling of a small theme.
. ...J.E.C.: Very poor stuff... .G.V.W.: Too
mechanical even for a skit... . J.H.: In “Memnon”
it is the metre that fails most.... J.P.F.: “Hay-
seed” has some cleverness, but verse is very rough,
. ...L.P.F.: Goes as lumpily as an ambulance over
the Parramatta-road.... J.M.H.: No joy in it...,
A.M.D.M.L.: “Shearer” too rough... .A.S.E.: Poor
stuff.... E.W.D.: Doesn’t convince and doesn’t
amuse... .H.8.W.: The “need of a bard” may be
great or it may not, but you don’t show any sign
of supplying the article.. . .D.J.M.: Not our style.
. ...H.S.W.: No. .. .C.R.W.: Not nearly up....
W.F.: “Souvenirs” doesn’t carry itself right through.
. ...L’Fou: Not quite... .R.A.S.: No u5e....L.A.:
Watch your rhymes and scansion.... A.S.: Not up.
. ...M.K.: It’s pretty awful even for a first shot.
....G.H.G.M: You can't rhyme “jaw” with “more”
in this paper. ... Amateur: Stiff, moderately correct
verse with nothing in it. .. .A.W.0.: Look at a
fragment of it in print:—
The cross that bows some down,
Those of the half seeming loss,
But then the cross is crowned, a star-crossed crown —
The Southern Cross.
....Seedy: Moved -s to tears.. ..C.F.P.: “Orange
Harvest” still misses... .E.C.: Doesn't work....
A.M.: “Sea King” and “Ocean” move in a com-
monplace fashion to nothing in particular... .J.F.:
“Nothing Important” hasn't a fine enough edge....
O.B.: You work in fin- tones; but there’s a com-
pelling simplicity about it:—
It’s a little country town, our usual trip to see,
From town to join our country pumkins on the spree
We always take Dan, because he acts as our referee.
And, of course, we must take Stan, as he knows
how to plea.
To see all the bally scraps, and all the hats;
There were the Georges, and all the Pats;
By jingoes, I tell you, we gave them rats;
Talk about sweeps, it was worse than tats.
But after all the stir, none of us got shot.
As for Dan and Stan, they had their degree;
We all shook hands and filled our pots,
Wished our friends luck, and not to forget our
referee.
G.H.G.M.: A far-off hint of merit... .W.G.: Too
late... .G. 8.: Doesn’t strike us E.W.C.: Not up.
....J. Saunders: The bloke who wisely remarked of
his tart that he didn’t care :.ow fair she was if she
didn’t do the fair thing to him—or poetry to that
effect —was George Wither ,1588-1667)
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.8.M.: You’ve struck too late.... Charles S.: Not
a bright footwarmer.... McR.: Crude and cramped.
Give yourself more room. And practise... .P.H.C.:
Neither the Jaypee nor the person in the box looks
like a human being.. . :W.D.: More study required.
D.G.: Can’t fathom it. (P.S. —And wonder whether it
would be worth while if we could.) .... A.H.: Why
is the stout lady with the rose weeping... .L.H.: The
drawing isn't good enough. No Sydney policeman
ever wore a helmet like that.... M. 8.: Sad, cramped
beginning... .J.D.8.: Weak gag and the drawing
isn’t much better.... Woodicus: Both too rough....
Rupert E.: Not usable.
A Melbourne cleric complains:—
It was believed at first that the war would help
the churches by bringing the people to appreciate the
sustaining force of faith. Instead of that, however,
I find men and women more than ever afflicted with
the deadly canker of doubt.
He means sceptic poison.


f x " '
;x ' . ' '
'* .
i?
«t«hs -»X
m
.
m
/
y
: i
»
j-
.
It®
r
m
■
m m
m
18
is f
07
Q
cp
HI,
%
€?
mm
X
i
x - v
<£>
%
X
/■"
PJtota
If
• m
EMBLEM
• •
ALL STATES AMO new Zealand
gi
THETHERE 6 BACK TYRE
MILES CHEAPER
AND AUSTRALIAN
* ,<X
* ,


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E N GL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4810; Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) V.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Nov. 14.
Leaves Sydney, Nov. 17.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
‘Passengers only.
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Nov. 17.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £ 1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Ivt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement ext®~ding to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; AV. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— AV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brunches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N,
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (.325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of |)eui Zealand'
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, .New Zea
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
SXISOdBG 53A1393U
at Interest lor
fixed _ periods, and
transacts al) other usual Banking husinesa.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500.000.
Fira Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
cf various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-BED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIDS, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP TH HOUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY — PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
9T- X
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Fiva and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Directors
£3,894,980
£2,800,000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
The Hon. Sir Charles lv. Maeliellar, K.C.H.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.U., M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedlo St., E.C
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London. •
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
.T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
i
HEAD OFFICE
IBankAustralia
Open
for a.ll
General Banking; Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Oorernor. June. 1916 DENISON MILLER, Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Office: 18 Bircbin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). U|
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and horn
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. PARINGA, November 10,
S.S. RUPARA, November 17
S.S. MORIALTA, November 24
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the fiist Port of call with other Inter-State Con„ wl ,,
on all services subject to conditions, which can
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
G. S. YUIL.L, Si CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Huddart Parker Line,
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydnev tf„i
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice m l'
as advertised in daily newspapers Sa ‘
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street,Sydney *
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON ti CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER. SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued m conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISUAxr.,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillunihati,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY", or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage 0
steamer, £4 6s.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T. 5.5. “ INDARRA ”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
..10,000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. .
Tourists and seekers after a health tiip ® , *d 1 , y
the enjovment of beautiful scenery siioulu ses ' s
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company s steameis I
all up-to date arrangements for convenience r
fort, making travel safe, easy mid pleasant-.
first port of call, First and Second Saloon ii«
interchangeable with all Interstate Compan e,
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the ll !' see
particulars on application. I'or dates o
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents. 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
v LL AUSTRALIANS visiting
should read the British A -, gr
ASIAN, 6d. weekly—an illustrated l^P g _
containing mail and cable news r ur oP e
tralia and news of Australians in . n .
and at home. Australians are c 0 ‘ * lA jj
vited to visit the British Aottbal'-V
Reading Room at the Offices, lla the
born, London, W.C., where they c< t lw
home papers, meet their friends,
telephone, and obtain information
charge.


KODAK RECORDS
Keep growing in value
It is not only the extreme pleasure
derived from actually making
Kodak pictures that is worth while;
the pictures themselves, with the
passing of time, become more and
more valuable as unfailing - records.
Take a Kodak wherever you go.
There is one for you among the
many models costing from 30/= to
£l5/2/=
The 3a Folding' Autographic Kodak —excel-
lent for postcard pictures —5| x 3j inches.
Price £5/ 10/=
The 2c Autographic Kodak takes elongated
pictures 2\ x 4-| inches. Price 55/=
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak —the
Soldier’s Kodak —for pictures 2\ x if inches.
Price 30/=
Ask for the new, beautifully illustrated book-
let: “All Outdoors Invites your Kodak.” Free
from all Kodak dealers, and
r
-
3tgsrasp§
«?***
v. *, ■
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
(Incorporating Baker 8 Rouse Prop. Ltd.)
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next Melba Theatre), Valley; 37 Bundle St.,
Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St.,
Rockhampton; 346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner Eambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington,
N.Z.; 3 Dome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
Hupmobile
Brief Hupmobile Specifications.
HUPMOBILE MODELS: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater. Motor: Four cylinder, 95 m/m
bore 140 m/m stroke (3£in. x siin.). Long wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on
7-seater) Tyres, 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 3oin.
v 4 ‘in on 7-seater, non-skid tyres on all rear wheels. Fully equipped with electric starting
and" lighting system, wind screen, hood, side curtains, door-curtain carriers, speedometer,
robe rail, foot rail, carpet in tonneau, five demountable rims, tyre carrier, pump, jack and
full set of tools—Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, kbaki hood and seat covers
at small additional cost over list price of car.
s=Seater—Wheel Base 119 inches.
ISTINGUISHED
Ex beauty in the H up-
mobile is a fact.
Performance .is a second
fact.
The Hupmobile has estab-
lished it by out-pointing
cars of all types.
Value is a third fact —
Hupmobile quality has
been acknowledged for
years.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Michigan,
U.S.A.— Cable Address: “HUPP DETROIT.”
i‘ 'li-lS')


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
The New Management has completed the follow-
ing Improvements: New Commodious Lounge,
Whole of Ground Floor; New Dining-room, seat
150 persons; New Kitchen; New Automatic Ele-
vator; New Hot-water System throughout; New
Bathrooms and Lavatories.
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR OAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdock
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
the: chandler six—£s3s.
Do you know why, in four years time, the Chandler has passed and left behind, one by one, a long line of other well-known cars ?
There are perhaps several reasons, all of which would appear very clearly if you had the oppor-
tunity or took the time to analyse the history and business policies of the automobile industry. But
there is ONE BIG BASIC REASON which, to YOU AS A MOTORIST, is the ESSENTIAL REASON,
and that one reason is this—that ever since the first Chandler Car was designed and built and mar-
keted four years ago last July, THE CHANDLER has OFFERED THE FINEST OF DESIGN
CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT AT THE LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICE.
THE CHANDLER TO-DAY OFFERS THIS EXCESS OF VALUE, THIS DEPENDABILITY OF
SERVICE, JUST AS DISTINCTLY AS AT ANY TIME IN THE FOUR YEARS PAST.
It took some little time, of course, for a great part of the motoring world to pin its confidence
THE RIGHT CAR AT
Back in 1914 men were very generally inclined to recognise that THE CHANDLER WAS THE
RIGHT CAR AT THE RIGHT PRICE and about two thousand of them had the courage to make
sure of their convictions.
Those two thousand won thousands more to their convictions, so that in the year following nearly
seven thousand men chose the Chandler for their Car.
And the Car WENT ON MAKING FRIENDS BY ITS PERFORMANCE in the hands of these
owners.
The \thole country marvelled at this WONDERFUL MOTOR, AT ITS POWER, ITS FLEXI-
THE CHANDLER
ABOVE ALL OTHER MEDIUM-PRICED CARS, ABOVE ALL OTHER HIGH-GRADE CARS.
The sales records show AN INCREASE OF MORE THAN 55 PER CENT, in the first six
months of this year as compared with the first six months of last year.
Chandler leads because, starting with the right of Car, the Chandler Company has stood
COME. LET US SHOW YOU WHY
to this newcomer. Men recognised—indeed, the whole trade recognised—that a new type of car which
must make large appeal had come into the market. The trade knew that it was the PRODUCI 0
MEN WHO KNEW MOTOR BUILDING AND GENERAL MOTOR-CAR DESIGN, AND WHO WEKE
EXPERIENCED IN THE BEST MANUFACTURING PRACTICES.
And how distinctly the Chandler has won its place in THE VERY FRONT RANK of fine motor-
cars is reflected in the Chandler sales records of Ninetren-Fourteen, Fifteen, Sixteen and Seventeen.
Month by month and season after season throughout these four vears the Chandler has MO'>
FORWARD AND FORWARD, until to-day ITS LEADERSHIP COULD HARDLY BE QUESTIONED-
This leadership has been built on
THE RIGHT PRICE.
BTLITY, ITS LIFE, AND GET-AWAY, AND ITS ENDURANCE. The whole Chandler chassis
came to be recognised as a great mechanism.
So last year, 1916, it was hardly surprising to those who really knew the Chandler that more
than thirteen thousand motorists chose this Car for their Car, more than twice as main as a
chosen it the year before. I
And now comes 1917, a year of some stress for all trades, a year above all years when the
real worth in merchandise counts most. And what is the motoring public’s answer in its discu
sion of high-grade Cars? What is its answer in discussion of Sixes most particularly?
From coast to coast, so far as our available records show',
IS PREFERRED
firmly by this type of Car. It has continued to
until to-day IT APPROXIMATES PERFECTION
develop this Car throughout these
in construction and performance.
four years,
e^ would like to show you what these items of design and equipment and many others, t\pi ca
o t e highest-priced high-grade Cars, mean to Chandler performance.
AND HOW CHANDLER LEADS.
Marcus ClarK (Q. Co. Ltd
Sole Agents for
New South 'Wales.
Garage & Showrooms—l 62 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
_________ tel., CITY 8362.
IN BANANA LAND
In connection with the Wando Yale tangle,
Bedford, M.L.C., wrote in The Bulletin
of October 18 that “the charges were that
the station could have been acquired for
£45,000, and part of the suggested graft was
mentioned as £5OOO to Treasurer Theodore.”
A question as to the exact meaning of this
having arisen, Bedford writes: —
I did not intend, nor did I say, that Mr. Vowles
made the charge against the Treasurer of receiving
£5OOO as graft. I merely shortly reviewed the sub-
ject matter of the inquiry before the Commission and
dealt with the Judge’s finding.
Vowles’s charge was that a station for which
the country paid £82.000 could have been
bought for £45.000. He declared this w T as
“smellful.” Either prior to this or subse-
quently it was “mentioned” by someone that
Treasurer Theodore got £5OOO • and Judge
O’Sullivan went into the matter and gave
Theodore an opportunity to deny the rumor.
But to remove any possible misconception
The Bulletin points out that Vowles
entirely dissociated himself from any such
specific rumor. He said that the trans-
action was “smellful.” and left it at that.
If, because of anything which Tiie Bulletin
has printed, anyone has done Vowles the
injustice of thinking that it was he who
made the insinuation against Theodore, this
paper is very sorry, for such was neither its
intention nor the intention of the writer.
Bananaland Lands Department has been
experimenting with still another prickly-pear
cradicator. The mixture is Peel’s Powder,
which is injected dry into one leaf of each
plant. The Department inoculated an acre
of heavy pear, and reports that it is “the
finest and most perfect experiment up to the
present.” Not a single bunch of pear is
showing signs of life, the poison circulating
right to the root of the vegetable. It is still,
however, too soon to say that the clean-up is
permanent.
A pathetic little note, written painfully
by a gnarled fist, from North Queensland :
I write to you as I would write to an old friend.
What I wish to say is that this bachelors’ tax is
not just to us old men. I am 60 years old. My
health is not too good, and I find it very hard to
get work. Sometimes it is just about starvation
with me, and the same with a great many old
prospectors like myself. I think there should be
an age limit. If we old men were able to pay we
gladly would. Many of us are widowers and will be
glad when the time comes to meet the missus in
some other world.
But it’ll be all right. Really the bachelor
tax is a super-income tax, and the old
battler who is just waiting to move on wrnn’t
be bled unless he is in receipt of £l5O a
year and is physically capable.
The Auditor-General’s report makes the
Ryan Government’s resumption of the Mount
Hutton station look at least unbusinesslike.
The purchase price was £73,500, and
the manager’s valuation of assets as at
May 24, 1916, was as follows: Stock,
£66,219 ; improvements, £1872 ; plant, £550 ;
stores, £196; total, £68,837. This left £4663
to stand against the lease. On iuarcli
31, .193.7, however, a new entry was
made, adding £9337 to the value of
the lease, and reducing the value of
the stock by £9140. The Auditor-General
doesn’t mind the adjusting entry of £196, but
he kicks hard against the reduction of the
stock-value by £9140, and the corresponding
inflation of the lease account, the operations
having apparently been made as a result of
a muster of cattle showing a big shortage on
the number appearing on the station books
at the date of purchase. The effect of it
all is to increase the lease value to £14,000,
which the A.-G. thinks remarkable, inasmuch
as when, in July, 1913, the estate w T as sold
to the late lessee for £44,000, the lease, with
13 years to run (as against 10 years now),
TOO WET TO GIVE IT A CHANCE.
“Hello, Tiny, you’ll get wet through! Where’s your umbrella?”
“I only have a lovely new one, and I couldn’t bear having it out on such a wet day.”
was valued at only £llOO. The A.-G. pro-
ceeds :
I understand it is the intention of the Government
to shortly convert the Mount Hutton holding into a
closer-settlement area, in which case I presume the
Closer Settlement Fund would recoup the State
Stations f und for the amount of the lease and im-
provements ; so that... .selectors who take up the
Mount Hutton lands will have to carry the load of
the additional amount of £9140.
By divers adjusting book entries everything
may be made to look lovely, the only blot on
the landscape being Cocky painfully hump-
ing an additional debt of £9140.
Bananaland’s sugar crop this season
promises to be a record-breaker. About
2.900,000 tons of cane should pass through
the mills, returning about 346.000 tons of
sugar, worth £7.266,000 at £2l per ton.
The bumper harvest is partly due to last
season’s industrial troubles, for the sugar
cocky decided to let some of his cane stand
over rather than cut it at the rates of wages
demanded. The estimates for this season
are, of course, also entirely dependent upon
Labor playing th? game. It can have little
grievance against the liberal award now
operating. All going well, the Common-
wealth should have a surplus of about
100.000 tons to h lp pay its war-bill.
One Badorasky, who came to Bananaland
from Russia as a political exile and returned
a while ago, writes cheerfully about the
Bear’s prospects of recovering a punch. Cer-
tainly, he says, there will be no separate
peace, so far as rtussia is concerned, and.
more certainly still, no return to Czarism. “I
declare,” he adds, “that the rebel soldiers at
Harbin behave themselves better than many
soldiers in Australia who are not rebels”;
and the Court of Comrades metes out sum-
mary justice to offenders against law and
order with very excellent results. There is
a sting and a reproach in Badorasky’s final
comment: “Australia—what does she know
of war such as we have passed through!
She is only playing-at wax.”
“McNorth” : ~ Passed out in Sydney re-
cently, while on a visit to the alleged civilisa-
tion of the South, Wade Robinson, officer-in-
charge of the Cape York telegraph-station,
the lonely outpost of our uttermost North
that gazes on the placid blue water of Torres
Strait. Wade was a Norfolk Islander and a
descendant of a Bounty mutineer, but for
ever 20 years Cape York had been his habi-
tat. He had at one time or another been
postmaster at most of the 70-mile-apart tele-
graph stations that are strung along the
Peninsula ; also he was an acting Goldfields
Warden. There is genuine mourning for a
good man, absolutely the best-liked amongst
Far-Northerners.
The Frogs’ Pool.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I were a frog in a moonlit pool,
’Mid the bulbous pods of the lilies cool,
With its shadows of jade and amethystine,
And its surface a ripple of silver sheen,
I would woo my love till my froggy note
Pulsed with passion her answering throat.
Across the hills the sound might rise
Of the mortal w’orld with its staring eyes,
Its crude, coarse color and ceaseless clatter,
Its maddening whirl —but what should it
matter ?
Safe ’neath the willow’s silken tress,
All would be vague deliciousness—
Purnle, and green, and sapphire blent
In still deep harmonies of content,
Pellucid light and paling glimmer, ,
Translucent shade and azure shimmer.
Blurred with passion, my husky note
Mocking eternity would float:
“Come, my love, through the waters cool,
Heaven is here in the moonlit pool.”
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 3,
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
Yesterday the pirates of the
made another raid, this time to give Tr 8
to the Soldiers’ Settlements Pastimes V, ,
The £420 that was,captured will go t ?'
vide libraries and recreation rooms Y ,
and works on farming and engineering,
what the committee principally wants \
citizen who has a few volumes to S mr.' V
enjoined to mention the fact to Mrs T i' s
Ryan. ’ ■ L|
The Premier and Mrs. Rvan in \r o iK.
during the Cup frivolities, will be b a l?
about a fortnight. Asst.-Minister for m'
tice Fihelly and his wife and kiddies £'
been holidaying in Sydney. ■
The Railway Department has gained envi
able notoriety both for the number of it
employees who have enlisted and for th
amount of money contributed to patriot!, o
purposes. Minister Harry Coyne bv t
way, whose two sons are at the’ war snetub
Ins week-ends with the other hands con
structing homes for returned railway men.
Killed in action in France, laeut 1 p
Mac Donnell, son of Mr. and Mrs.’ James
Mae Donnell, of Gympie. The youngster Wi) ,
only a little over 21, yet he had been thromb
more than two years of fighting, lie received
his commission last August. Youne
Mae Donnell had a brilliant school record
and when the war-dogs barked was in his
second year at the Uni. lie is the second
son the MacDonnells have given to the
nation. A third is still with the A.I.F.
Miss Maud Jeffrey, a clever young pupil
of Gladys Frost, won flattering opinions at
her recital on Wednesday night. Her
teacher. Lena Hammond and Cedric Barnes
solidified the programme.
Randolph Bedford’s daughter Veronica
made her first appearance in Brisbane at the
Tivoli Theatre this evening. She did well.
The mystery over that funeral wreath
which was left on Premier Ryan’s doorstep
deepens. It appears to have been presented
in the first place to Vowles, M.L.A., bearing
a card with Ryan's name on it; but Ryan
denies that he had anything to do with the
sorry jest, and those who know him know
that his tastes in humor don't run that way.
Bundaberg lost one of its oldest and most
useful residents when George Xoakes died
the other day, aged 70. He helped to change
the district from a pastoral to a very rich
agricultural centre, and, with his brother,
founded the Spring Hill sugar plantation and
mill. When not looking on his cane or
rejoicing over the departure of Kanakas, hi
amused himself at various kinds of sport
towards which his donations were plentiful
and generous.
Odo Hopkins, eldest son of Dr. (Col.l
Herbert Hopkins, a previous P.M.O. ol
Queensland, has made* the great sacrifice.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Premier Ryan's application to Maorilajxl
to send over an Arbitration Court to settle
up the remnants of the rumpus on the
Bananaland Railways was respectfully de-
clined by Brother Massey; but the incident
seems to be one capable of development.
How about Ryan inviting his friend Massey
to ship the Maorilahd Auditor-General across
for the purpose of explaining what he thinks
after making detailed examination of the
innards of Ryan’s cashbox?


Motor Gr
The Light Four
Touring Car
£365
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Magneto Ignition
1
1
i \A
w#
RSS
s'.''
WB&
■
\3
Immediate Delivery.
In the Overland Big Four-cylinder touring
car and the Overland Light Four-cylinder
touring car, the luxurious and the practical
are in proper balance to produce lasting satis-
faction.
The Big Four is finished in a deep rich
brown, while the colour of the Light Four is
a beautiful shade of gray.
These two models exemplify the remark-
able values made possible by tremendous pro-
duction.
Size does not of itself constitute greatness.
An industry is as great as its service to
the public.
But size does usually constitute oppor-
tunity for service.
In the case of Willys-Overland, size origi-
nally was an indication of foresight and courage.
It constituted an opportunity to establish
new values in motor cars —this was a service.
Growth came as a reward of this service,
and with growth came opportunity for further
service—further revision of values.
Today’s immensity means experience,
facilities and resources, plus the public con-
fidence, which gives these things stability for
yet greater service.
The Willys-Overland ideal of service is in-
tegrity of value in the product throughout
the whole life of that product’s service.
The Willys-Overland Motor Cars which
we have to show you exemplify this ideal
and constitute the most comprehensive range
of models ever built by any one motor car
producer.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
“Country Club ”
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Car
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Reguest from
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney. HEATHORN &. CO., Hobart & Launceston
EAGER & SON, Brisbane. MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide,
KELLOW F-ALKINER LTD., Melbourne. ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
A. HATRICK <& CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willys-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio
Manufacturers of Willys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
and Light Lorries


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Why Have Grey Hair?
Pew people know that grey liair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy and has given perfect satis-
faction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment rids
the skin of blackheads, oiliness and enlarged
pores almost instantly. It is perfectly harm-
less, pleasant and immediately effective. All
you have to do is to drop a stymol tablet,
obtained from the chemist, in a glass of hot
water, and after the resulting effervescence
has subsided dab the affected portions of the
face freely with the liquid. When you dry
the face you will find that the blackheads
come right off on the towel, the large pores
contract and efface themselves and. the greasi-
ness is all gone, leaving the skin stnooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be repeated
a few times at intervals of several days in
order to make sure that the result shall be
permanent.
The Magnetism of Beautiful Hair.
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart women are ever on the
look out for any harmless thing that will in-
crease the natural beauty of their hair. The
latest method is to use pure stallax as a sham-
poo on account of the peculiar glossy, fluffy
and wavy effect which it leaves. As stallax
has never been used much for this purpose it
comes to the chemist only in Jib. sealed origi-
nal packages, enough for 25 or 30 shampoos.
A teaspoonful of the fragrant slallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair apart
from its beautifying effect.
How to Remove a Bad Complexion.
Cosmetics can never really help a poor com-
plexion ; often they are positively harmful.
The sensible, rational way is to actually re-
move the thin veil of stifling, half-dead scarf-
skin from the face, and give the fresh, vigor-
ous and beautiful young skin underneath a
chance to show itself and to breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way, by
merely applying mereolised wax at night, like
cold cream, and washing it off in the morning.
Good mercolized wax can be obtained from
any well-stocked chemist. It absorbs the dis-
figuring cuticle gradually and harmlessly,
leaving a brilliant natural complexion. Of
course, this also takes with it all such facial
blemises as red blotches, tan, moth patches,
sallowness, liver spots, pimples, etc. As a
freckle remover and general complexion beau-
tifier this old-fashioned remedy is unequalled.
The Powder Puff Passes.
Every normal woman is always interested
in any plan by which she can quicklv enhance
her beauty, provided the plan is perfectly safe
and simple. Ever since the discoverv that
ordinary cleminite, such as any chemist can
supply, is an instantaneous and harmless
beautifler, there has been a growing demand
for it from smart women everywhere. They
usually get about an ounce and add just
enough water to dissolve it. A little of this
perfectly harmless lotion gives a beautiful
complexion to any face instantly. It renders
face powder quite unnecessary. Moreover, its
use cannot be detected. The skin is instantly
beautified but appears perfectly natural
under the closest scrutiny. [3
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE . PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO ann OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Sate for
children.
Carters
UTTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill— Small Oose—Small Pries.
GENUINE must bear signature
S/>e “ DAISY *'
Combination Acetylene Table & Bracket Lamp.
As per illustra-
tion. Complete
with globe and
bracket.
Height Overall,
15 inches.
Breadth of Base,
5 inches.
Freight Paid,
17/0
Solid Brass.
75 Candle Power.
Burns 6 Hours
at one filling.
LUX LIGHT CO.
OF VICTORIA,
495 Collins St..
Melbourne.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Dhosfo
I THE ROYAL TONIC
rino
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton SC Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
1/
To suffer with fortitude is
heroic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect —the neglect of simple
rules of health.
OF all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system ; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the muscu-
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid, braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS*
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents.
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney-
Sole Proprietors, E.GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen). Ltd..6B Deansgate Arcade. Manchester. England-
safeguard you* health
qTJ*CoIIiB Browug's
CWorodvM
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE REST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS 811
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
well-proved
** O, tSS
NEURALGIA,
lUlA) *
RHEUMATISM.
VCHE
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery*
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, li&i M •
Made in England.
DRUMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Drumfire has increased.”— Cable.
It was the drum whose loud elastic thunder
Beat courage to the hearts of elder men,
Rallying the ranks the foe had burst asunder,
Swelling the strength of five to match with ten.
Drumsticks and shrilling fifes —and who’s to stay us?
The winds of doom and fates of death obey us!
It is the drumfire to full volume swelling
That thrills the world to dreams of larger things.
Ridge upon ridge black-throated guns are shelling
The shames of power and murder-pomps of kings.
Drumsticks of leaping fire —and who’s to stay us ?
The white, clean hopes of better days obey us!
N.S.W
GEORGE STREET.
“John Ess’’: At the Darwin (N.T.) Red
Cross fair —which, by the way, netted £650
—the baby competition was won, on votes,
by a little Chinee. Quite in keeping with the
policy of slight Australia.
Thirteen years ago the late Cardinal
Moran conferred honors and decorations
from Rome on 13 distinguished R.C.’s. Five
were Knights Commanders of St. Gregory.
One only is alive —John Meagher, of Bath-
urst. Three were Chamberlains of the Papal
Court. One only is alive—John Lane Mul-
lins. Five had the Cross of Leo XIII. Of
these J. Tighe Ryan survives, and probably
a second:
Little Tasmania is on good metal pros-
pects in the north of France. To date the
clean-up is:—
Four V.C.’s, two C.B.’s, one G.M.G., 15 D.S.O.’s,
20 M.C.’s, 14 D.C.M.’s, 42 Military Medals .and a
Croix de Guerre.
Very handsome!
Another Melbourne Grammar warrior,
Richard Minifie, has caught the decorator’s
eye. Young Minifie, who is only 19, joined
the British air service some months back, and
has been annoying the Hun with such energy
that he has been fastened to a Distinguished
Service Cross and promoted to Acting-Flight
Commander. Dad is one of Melbourne’s
flour magnates; an only brother is also a
flier who was recently returned home after
receiving considerable damage in Flanders.
This is the story of soldiers three and the
old man who would not be left at home. The
boys are Major Mervyn J. Herbert, Driver
Clifford Herbert and Private Clifford Her-
bert. They are all Anzacs, and the Major
filled a saddle in the escort when the British
Parliament was opened last session. The
old man became restless, and last year, at
the age of 51, enlisted at Broken Hill. Dis-
daining attempts to keep him in England, he
helped to make the tunnel which blew the
top off Messines Ridge, and is now a mili-
tary policeman in France. His wife and
daughter, the only members of the family left
at home, are living in Ballarat.
On the job of eating up a fruit crop
With export markets cut off a special effort is to
be made in the fruit-producing States to encourage
local consumption. The community is to be asked to
eat up the fruit-crop. The main working lines to be
adopted are organisation of distribution and a pub-
licity campaign. Both are good things— provided th 6
goods are there! An advertising campaign without
the goods is waste effort. Similar moves—on Vic-
toria last year, When the Argus ran an apple cam-
paign, and in the first year of the war in Canada-
were successful; but in each Case the goods were
there, true to grade, The buyer was Sure of getting
his money’s worth. To work off the summer soft
fruits in N. S. Wales, the bulk of which is grown
around Sydney—and this crop is the main Worry
just now—will not be as easy. These orchardists
are a backward lot, and the amazing strength of the
fruit-agents in Sydney lies in the fact that the
grower sends in such a lot of poor stuff. So much
has legitimately to go to the tip that it is difficult
to check statements. This season the fruit will be
grown, and it will be a simple matter to advertise
it. But unless there is supervision over the packing
and delivery there will be rows when the consumer
opens up his case or half-case of alleged fruit. The
scheme it is intended to carry out, if it materialises,
will have a useful effect in demonstrating to growers
themselves the weaknesses of the industry at present.
Once organised along co-operative lines—and this
scheme is going to provide an opportunity—the
growers can revolutionise an industry now in a state
of chaos. But they have first to learn that they must
manage their orchards on lines that will produce
clean fruit, and that fruit must be honestly graded
and packed. Otherwise the market will go to grow-
ers in other States who do these things. Hodgson,
of the N.S.AV. Railways, has let out that Victorian
growers have already approached the Department as
to conditions if they guaranteed a trainload of fruit
(150 tons) twice a week for the season. With laclc
of organisation and proper handling N. S. Wales
growers are not m the position to guarantee even a
truckload most of the time.
“Nimrod”: In his talk about guns “303”
(B. 11/10/’l7) is off the track. The first
military breech-loader was not American. It
was Dreyse’s needle-gun, adopted by Prussia
in IS4S and used against Denmark in ’64
and Austria in ’66. This rifle, crude as it
was, embodied a principle, the door-bolt
action, now universally adopted. In the
American Civil War the regular troops used
muzzle-loading rifles, although some of the
cavalry had breech-loading carbines of an
experimental type. The French may not
have invented smokeless powder, hut it was
a Frenchman, Vielle, who first produced a
smokeless powder suitable for military rifles,
and France was the first nation to employ it.
That was in 1886. “303’’ says a smokeless
powder was in use in England for sporting
purposes 20 years earlier. What smokeless
powder was in use in 1866? It is to two
Frenchmen, Houillet and Tottet, that we
owe the gas-tight cartridge case and the
central-fire cartridge, two things indispens-
able to all progress in small-arms. The
breech-loading military rifle is almost the
only thing of the sort the Germans ever did
invent. Nearly everything else that they
have they copied. They are an extraor-
dinarily non-inventive race, but remarkably
quick at adapting the devices of others.


■■ ■■
v; -.
-V. ■-&
0
-;y
$
IH
H
I l|i , i , ll| III! | Hii'ill j JHIIJ lI'IHi liii'Hi 1 *••?»
:> •* i
i
I-.. :
F you desire to reap the full benefit of Goodyear
Service, consult Goodyear experts on all
necessities for factory, mill and mine.
The recommendations made will not be
haphazard experiments—they will be the
results of actual records kept in hundreds of factories,
mills, mines and power=houses using Goodyear equipment.
By giving you the benefit of recommendations based on actual
operating records in your industry, you will be able to minimise losses
due to lack of information when specifying mechanical goods.
You may in some cases pay a higher initial cost for Goodyear
mechanical goods, but remember that the PRICE you pay by no means
represents the true cost. That can be determined only by figuring the
price against the work performed—the SERVICE.
Let us have an opportunity of being of assistance to you—our experts
are prepared at any time to inspect your mechanical goods equipment and
offer such recommendations as will INCREASE the earning=power of your
plant at an ultimate DECREASED EXPENSE.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE & RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
9-
rt*
T 3&
c „d s
C & AS
n
h^G
n
}i&
G°
fr &
G°
m
ffi
e*
e f
bP
j>u
'ft*
Jl
d**
U<*
dk
Ue^
he
fib
Art
jS*
Art
iM t(l
A
A
an
Mill
f>o*
Co *
Min eS
Ore


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
I'IVOLI THE AT UK, SYDNEY
Every Evening at 8. MatinCes Wednesday and
Saturday, 2.30.
Harry Roxbury's sparkling spectacular scream,
THE PRINCE OF MONTE CARLO. THE BEAUTY
SHOP, presented by an all-star Women Cast. George
AVelch, Billy Rego, Charles Albert, Senor Roger,
Jean Keith, Doris Thornton, Daisy and Sydney Yates.
TtVOU
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance for a Short Season
of
ADA REEVE,
Supported by a Brilliant Company.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
‘RITE HI ON THEATRE. SYDNEY.
' Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
KATHLENE MACDONELL in Edmond Rostand’s
great Napoleonic play
L’AIGLON.
CHARLES WALDRON as Prince Metternich.
H
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
E R MAJESTY’ S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
J. C.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Williamson's Newlv-organised MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
MR. MANHATTAN.
Plans at Pali]
Day Sales at Callose’s.
> AEA C E THE ATR H. SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. PHILIP LYTTON, LTD.
Business Manager . . GEORGE L. MERRIMAN. !
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
PHILIP LYTTON
presents
THE YVAYIUCKS.
HUMOROUS, GAY, CONVINCING, GENIAL,
INNOCENT.
Plan at Nicholson’s and White Rose.
H E
PLAYHOUSE, S Y D N E Y.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT.
J. AND N. TAIL’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
By
QUINNEYS’,
HORACE A. YACHELL.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Plans at Nicholson's.
w
IRTHS’ HIPPODROME
Havmarket, Sydney.
Last Two Nights of THE CHRISTIAN.
THEATRE,
NEXT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10.
t\ illiam Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation in
THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
Popular Prices: Saturday Nights, 3/-, 2/-, 1/6 & 1 /-.
Week Nights, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Reserved Seats, 2/6, plus tax. Box Plan Nicholson’s.
T KIAN(.Mi I’LAVS AT
' Till*; IjVCKL'M,
PITT STHEET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.rn.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJ N 1 O N PIC TUIt E T IIEATBES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
H
Bit MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
Their New English Musical Comedy Co.
in
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
T H E A T RE K O Y A E, M EEHOU EXE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MARIE TEMPEST,
in
MARY GOES FIRST.
ht IXG’S THEATRE, AI E ER O U It X E.
Sole Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 10.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
lAN MACLAREN and a Specially-selected Co. in
HAMLET.
Popular Prices.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Messrs. BEN and JOHN FULLER
present
WM. ANDERSON’S Dramatic Organisation
in
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
Popular Prices, 3/-, 21- and 1/-. Plans at Pianola,
Collins Street.
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinges Saturday at 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
LIONEL BARRYMORE in
THE END OF THE TOUR,
and
MARIE CORELLI’S FAMOUS STORY",
TEMPORAL POWER.
Also
THE STIRRING IRISH DRAMA.
PEGGY r , THE WILL O’ THE AVISP.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
WIRTHS’ HIPPODROME, WIRTHS’ PARK,
MELBOURNE.
WIRTHS’ GREATEST SHOW ON
EARTH.
The Most Colossal Aggregation of Star Circus Acts
ever congregated into One Stupendous Show.
Prices: Res. Chairs, 5/-; Chairs, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-.
Children Half-price, except Gallery.
Plan at Glen’s.
|yg ajestic theatre, Melbourne.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
“WHY A CHILDISH HOME?” asked by
“MASTER OF HIS HOME.”
Five-act Triangle Drama, with
WILLIAM DESMOND AND ALMA
REUBENS.
Matinees Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHS,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Business Notices.
CAPILLARINE
4
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established, over SO years.
SYDNEY EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION, 1917.
DRAWN NOVEnBER 3, 1917.
O FFICIAL RESULT.
1 — 123,055
2
3 235,3011
4 227,705]
5 208,062
6 116,281
7
8— -187.810
9 227,506
10 — 132,353
11— 209,129
12—
13—
14—
15—
16—
17—
18 — 166,609
19 — 115,057
20—
21—
22 — 1,280
23 — 69,040
24
25 — 84,619
26 — 183,912
27
28— 76,946
29
30— 232,074
- A Cm
-133,568|101-
-199,099
-77,661
-■151,338
-174,311
-207,634
-270,770
-49,378
-50,673
-247,288
-61,547
-227,296
-223,040
-196,998
-77,183
-63,168
-255,725
-39,588
-261,616
-134.973
-251,352
-59,005
-261,519
-119,077
-177.275
102-
103-
101-
105-
106-
107-
108-
109-
110-
111-
112-
113-
114-
115-
116-
117-
118-
119-
120-
121-
122-
123-
124-
125-
is-A
163,2261151-
-195,080| 152-
a S
r - 3
§ 6
Cm
-243,526
-94,554
-68,921
-109,002
-232,093
-87,431
-85,215
-8,150
-46,591
153-
154-
155-
156-
157-
158-
159-
160-
161-
-196,768)201 —124,061(251-
-197,546 202—52,018 1252-
-140,129 203 —249,294(253-
-263,467 204—79,593 1254-
-58.135 205 —236,758 255-
-148,259(206—144.309
256-
-132,371! 162-
31—189.0121 81-
-175,689 127
-30,393 1128-
-142,887(129-
-49,315 |l3O-
-2 — 305,911
33 231,322
34 267,167
35 268,497
36
37
38— 54,156
39
40 — 66,054
41— 214,085
42
43 — 254,693
44
45
46
47 — 272,557
48— 145,405
49
50 — 261,221
82-
83-
84-
85-
86-
87-
88-
89-
90-
91-
92-
93-
94-
95-
96-
97-
98-
99-
100-
-128.303
-75,970
-176,295
-232,435
-226,721
-119,095
-169,281
-258,808
-109,361
-119,461
-245,523
-92,368
-84,033
-269,490
-246,112
-163,250
-127,153
-92,961
-264,7341149-
-219,6321150-
131-
132-
133-
134-
135-
136-
137-
138-
139-
140-
141-
142-
143-
144-
145-
146-
147-
148-
-210,527
-198,934
-51.196
-259,420
-250,703
-227,256
-91,911
-114,393
-210,910
-209,742
-209,943
-51,610
-168,408
-69,056
-84,680
-304,649
-39,251
-134,443
-63,359
-199,007
-86,041
-270,773
-217,404
-248,385
188-
189-
190-
191-
192-
193-
-73,020 187
-255,230
-225,386
-50,517
-222,223
-87,567
-203,761
-197,6911194
-248,0821195-
-39,065 1196
-150.2071197-
-255.2581198-
-268.8001199-
-60,912 (200-
163-
164-
165-
166-
167-
168-
169-
170-
171-
172-
173-
174-
175-
176-
177-
178-
179-
180-
181-
182-
183-
184-
185-
186-
-251,203|207—131,612 257-
-269,889|208—233,401 258-
-88.849 1209—-254,112 259-
-<166,186|210—233,846 260-
-239,5851211 —189,809|261 —208,806
-266,608 212—232,2371262 —223,454
-75,442 |2l3 —193,2561263—131,110
-127,304(214—31.224 [264 —5,806
-161,2721215—31,205 |265—126,369
-184,515,-216 —197,1521266 —90,903
-208,414(217 —64,187 (267—84,974
-133,284(218—136,518(268—224,355
-210,5721219—147,553(269 —250,354
-245,9441220—256.5251270-
-255,5331221 —112,5111271-
-137,800'222—125.4 26 272-
-140,708|223 —245,245 273-
-270,5561224—147,640 274-
-210,2031225 —86,069 275-
-177,3931226—81.225 276-
-256,1491227—88.300 277-
-251,349|228 —165.3091278-
-269,186 229 —47,230 279-
-219,289(230 —55,846 |2BO-
-1 —258,5671281
i-'A
-209,826 301—226,149
-40,044 302 —224,464
-252,698 303—263,274
-92,270 304—171,012
-41,220 305—252,564
-233,059 306—267,860
-•133,660'307—238,122
-141.4 4 4'308—252,455
-254,527(309—141,153
-271,984 310—93,101
311—
312
313
314
315
316
317
318—
A
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360 — 133,602
361
362
363
364
365 — 126,983
366
367
368
349—94,710 369—113,748
370
371 162,602
372
373
374 — 122,785
-268,873(232 —237.516
-169,159(233—263,344
-70,004 1234—200,315
-138,967(235—246,350
-271,846 j 236 —246,496
282-
283-
284-
285-
286-
287-
57,60 7 2 3 7 —261,7 99
-131,696 238—51,471 |2BB
-39,826 239—197,1411289
-172,606 240—263,0581290
-203.090 241—54,556 (291
-124,037 242—154,763|292
-265,942 243—12,235 (293 —
-9,355 244—131,6971294
-223,833 245—159,2731295
-210,694'246—88.693 1296
-255,132 (247—172,5731297
-108,543'248—230,1341298 —
-88.143 (249—205.2501299
-124,9221250 —228.400(300
262,786(320—151,173
-145,947(321 —236,860
-113,0311322—207,484
-270,206|323—151,300
-247,618(324—15,407
-237,6681325—124,415(375—196,648
-133,057|326 —84,525 (376 —219,891
-65,365 327 —167,4J9 377—222,628
-127.977 328—263,386(378—208,926
-214,703 329—211,1581379 —122,328
-238,255|330—233,0521380—83,228
162,2141331—227,305'381—156,792
-2,257 1332 —58,420 1382—188,808
-223,6861333—233,623(383—52,555
-133,276(334—164,291(384—225,153
-232,125(335 —182,656(385 —125,316
141,207|336—271,739|386—145,863
-110,0271337—9,153 (387—66,284
-201,654(338 —255,781|388 —262,895
256,7141339—130,3231389—251,365
-261,195(340 —250,6851390 —250,588
-171,386|341—152,§551391—250,593
141.1441342—249,4731392—147,168
-89,564 |343—138,3651393 —7,418
-161,931 344—186,418^394—216,439
-187,931 345 —208,188(395—251,060
-162,315 346—133,6291396—109,678
-161.351 347—264,631(397—117,347
-92,289 1348—194,643(398 —196,154
-84,576 |349 —158.265(399—57.475
-1 37.3391350—155 SSSUOQ— opi riK-|
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing of the above Ait
Union and declare the same has been conducted in a proper manner and with absolute fairness.
(Signed)
F. W. CLARKE, J.P., Australian Worker. .T. W. DOYLE, M.L.A.
GEO. GALWAY, Evening News. " W. T. HALL, Pambula Voice, Pambula.
J. T. CORLESS, Sunday Times. DAVID YOUNG, Sergeant of Police.
C. CHURCHLAND. Sun. •» JOHN HEPHER, M.L.C.
The Prizes will be paid over to the winners on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, at
10 a.m. at the Trades Hall, Goulburn Street, Sydney.
Trades Hall, Sydney, November 3,. 1917. ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary.
His Master s Voice
HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
-SUPREMACY—
The world’s MOST FAMOUS artists make records for
“His Master’s Voice.” They sing EXCLUSIVELY for
them!
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments embody all the finest
inventions and patents ever produced. The instrument
gives you the exact reproduction. That is where “His
Master’s Voice” stands supreme. No one can hope to
improve on Caruso, Melba, or the many others—and these
artists will not sing for any instrument-makers who claim
that you can do it. It is the REPRODUCTION that
counts. Bear in mind, when selecting, that “His Master’s
Voice” gives lifelike reproduction—every word clear and
distinct. There is no need of “control.”
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co. ILtd.
103 Pitt Street— __—Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy
Melbourne, 29th October, 19i 7
Tenders for the Supply G f a Motor
driven Hydraulic Pump to H \ ,
Naval Establishments
Island, Sydney. en
supply of a Motor-driven Hydraulic PnS
to 11.M.A. Naval Workshops, Garden Isl 2
Sydney. uu ’
Tender form, specification and anv
further particulars may be obtained on an
plication at the Offices of the Director nf
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne-
the General Manager, H.M.A. Naval Estal ’
lishments, Sydney; and at the Naval Staff
Office, Brisbane, Birkenhead (S.A.) Ere
mantle and Hobart.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 2nd October, 1917.
Tenders for Pumping Plant and Equip,
ment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney,
Amended Notice.
riJENDERS will be received, subject to
-1 the conditions of tendering, for the sup-
ply and delivery of Pumping Station Plant
and Equipment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island. Sydney, N.S.W
until Twelve Noon on Friday, 16th Novem-
ber. 1917.
Plans and specifications may be seen at
the office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; at the Common-
wealth Naval Dockyards, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney; and at the Offices of the District
Naval Officers at Brisbane, Birkenhead
(South Australia), Fremantle and Hobart.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
N.Z. Government Notice.
DOMINION OF NEW ZEALAND.
To Shearers and Slaughtermen.
'"pHE New Zealand Government guarantees that
Australian Shearers and Slaughtermen going to
the Dominion for the season will at the end thereof
l e granted permits to return to Australia'.
W. R. BLOW,
New Zealand Government Agent,
i 4 Moore Street, Sydney.
Business Notices.
Price
&
rff
DARBY AUTO
SUPPLIES
*
m
m
§si
n
H
33-a Elizabeth
STREET
MELBOURNE -
-2'9
Post Paid
£
<
%
*
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Littte Collins St„ Melbourne.
A TONIC FOR THE NERVES.
Nervous people who have not yet (tem-
oped a disease that can be recognised an
treated by the medical profession have the
greatest trouble in finding relief. f r " ta ’
bility, headache, sleeplessness, nervous dp-
pepsin, all these discomforts make life miser
able but are endured rather than run
doctor’s bill without definite hope of re
V tiv.
Every such sufferer should know 1
danger of such a condition of the nervo
system. Nervous debility and even P ara ?
sis may easily result if the tone of
nerves is not restored.
The one big fact that brings hope n
relief is that the nerves can he restored >.
building up the blood. It cannot be too o
repeated that only through the blood c
nourishment and medicine reach the ner
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills make the bloou
rich and red and quickly restore vitality a
energy to a weak, nervous system. A
vous person who gives these pills a tria ’
almost certain to see good results, and. w
is more, the benefit will be lasting beea .
the trouble is attacked at its root,
blood makes weak nerves. Building up
blood restores nerve force. ?ii
TIIE FREE BOOK on the nerves
interest you ; send a postcard to Box
0.P.0., Sydney.— Advt. -
SICK AND WOUNDEJJ
BOYS.—When you have finished wit
For on
BOYS.—When you have
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Jlur <• .
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 \ ictoria
London, E.C.


Eczema Was All Over
Feet, Hands and Face.
Healed By Cuticura.
“I suffered for nearly twelve months
from eczema all over my feet, hands
and face and the itching
nearly drove me mad. I
tore my skin almost to
pieces until it was red and
the scratching caused
eruptions. I was nearly
mad and when the erup-
tions broke I could not
touch them. Sleep was
out of the question.
“My sister advised me to try Oticura
Soap and Ointment so I sent for samples.
I got some more and I am now healed.”
(Signed) Mrs. J. Perry, 49 Hawkesburn
Road, Hawkesburn, Vic.
Unsightly complexions are often a
bar to social and business success.
Having cleared your skin with Cuticura
why not keep it clear by using the Soap
for every-dav toilet uses.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
V-
«
I
Ideal Hunting Knife-!
■and Safety Axe
Two articles indispensable to the
comfort and ofttimes the safety of outers.
Examples of the practical worth of
MARBLE’S "Sixty Sporting Specialties.”
Marble s Safety Axe
—the handiest tool a sportsman
ever carried. The nickle plated,
spring - hinged guard, lined
with soft lead, protects the blade
and folds down into the handle. Blade
of best tempered steel. Slips easily
into your side pocket where ft is out
of the way but always at hand.
Marble’s Ideal Hunting Knife
is just the all-round knife you need. Es-
pecially designed for all hunting uses.
Made from the finest cutlery steel, care-
fully ground and tempered. Every knife
guaranteed. See these goods at your dealer.
We will gladly send you postpaid complete
illustrated catalog of MARBLE’S” Sixty Sport-
ing Specialties” on request.
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co.
611 Delta Av.,Gladstone,Mich. ,U.S. A.
Cable Address “Marble” Gladstone
Australian and New Zealand
Representative
MARRY MOLDEN. Box 1349,
SYDNEY
Guarded
I LEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
ELEY Fourlong'
A .410 bore inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33 gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
i*
||il
m 3
ite'l
adgjgs'ii
!"|l'! to O |K
ar, |ip i»
w
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
sc
r -
m
Q:
111
2SS
U:
ELEY 410
‘Universal
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Do All Your
Polishing and
Finishing with
s
TT imparts a perfectly hard, dry,
glasslike polish of great beauty
and durability. Protects the
original finish from dust, grime
and dampness, adding years to
its life.
A Dust-Proof Polish
Johnson’s Prepared Wax neverbecomes sticky
or tacky in the hottest weather or from
the heat of the body. It does not gather
dust or show finger prints.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared
Wax for keeping dining room tables bright
and tempting. Hot dishes do not affect it in
the slightest.
Have Your Piano and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish,
Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently
removed with Johnson’s Prepared Wax—
The Dust-Proof Polish.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Is clean and easy to
use and economical. No tools or brushes
required—all you need is a soft cotton rag.
Keep a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos . Piano Woodwork
Floors Furniture Motor Car
For sale by all good dealers or
obtainable from
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street Sydney. N. S. W.
OOOJOPOOOd'DDDOOOOOOOoOOOfIOOOqooDOQOooo 0 0 aODOQOOOOOOOOOQO 0 0 0 o 0 fl Q 0 0 OOOOOOUQ OOP 0,0 0 000 OOQOBfIOOfIO
0 0
l
&
X2k
m
%
m
ss.
iS-:
vs
€
V'
«=o->
trs.
0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0
a o o
0 0 0
0 0
0 0
C 0
0 0 0
o a
a o
d a oo o
O 0
0 0
o a
0 0 0
11 [i
QOQOGD
n o
o o
0 0 0 0
a 'a
0 D
0 0
I*t
ii Si
= o*. to
:i Q
IW : i
ties
,s-Sj I?
iSp
= fig o
I^ l
K
O
<c
3
OS
zd
C 3
ca
-3
»J-S.STANDARD
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Th«» most effertive and
pleasing Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to —
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
m
s
(S 3
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Till?
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
‘‘The Crooked Magihnis”: Having got an
unimpeachable tip, Melbourne Herald
announced that nomination-day would be
November 5, and polling day November 14.
This was confirmed by the Cabinet, whose
members were disgusted to find, when the
paper came in before the meeting rose, that
the decision was already public property.
So, with no other motive, apparently, than
that of snouting a pressman, a change was
decided on, and the morning papers ne.xt
day stated that the dates would be: Nomi-
nations, November 6 (Cup day) ; elections,
November 16 (Friday). Then George Elms-
lie, Opposition leader, dropped a note to
Governor Stanley pointing out that Cup
day was a fool of a day for nominations, and
that if the elections were held on Friday,
the busiest shopping day and evening of the
week, the necessity for sticking to the coun-
ter would prevent many from going to the
poll. So the Cabinet met again and fixed
new dates—sth and 15th. The too-success-
ful pressman doesn’t mind—he is used to
politicians—but Alec may yet find that
people regard his surname as a misprint for
Piquecock.
* * » *
T. M. Shakespeare, sec. of the N. S.
Wales Country Press, a while back told Aus-
tralian newspaper proprietors in conference
at Brisbane that the press of Queensland
returned to advertisers within 12 months the
whole amount spent in that time. Three
years were occupied in getting back the out-
lay in N. S. Wales, four years in Victoria
and two and a half years in South Aus. This
estimate was not a guess, but the result,
Shakespeare claimed, of careful calculations.
Deepwater Despatch (N.S.W.) has the
brightest advt. of the week
NOTICE.
Will the person who stole my umbrella from the
Church on Sunday evening last return it to me
without delay ? If they are not game enough to
bring it to me barefaced they can leave it on my
verandah where I can get it. If they don’t return
it I pray that they may be struck dead with light-
ning before they know where they are ; also that the
curse of Cromwell may fall upon them day and
night, but if they return mv umbrella I will absolve
them from the above malediction. What impostors
go to church, mocking religion ! but let them make
no mistake, Hell will be their last resting place,
and I say—Amen !
T. T. KELLY.
Deepwater, October 2, 1917.
A large, loose-limbed youngster is The
Apprentice, put out once a fortnight by the
apprentices of Adelaide Register. It is a
single sheet, BuLLETiN-size, but printed only
on one side. Its livest contents are the
letters from “our comrade Cpl. S. W.
Jacobs,” convalescent in England after
being wounded in France on Easter Monday.
The Apprentice has been appearing for
nearly a year.
“Quarter Single” : In the old days, when
the Melbourne Herald was in Little Collins-
street, the alarm of fire was given. The
fire-fighting equipment was merely one
bucket full of cigarette-butts and water, and
a garden hose. However, “Stormy” Winter,
the editor, took command of the hose, and
by-and-by the fire-brigade arrived. They
were a volunteer push—it was long before
the days of the M.F.B. and Ilarrie B. Lee.
The men dashed aimlessly about pending the
arrival of their chief. He came, and all
sprang to attention. Looked round, lie
seized the situation at a glance, and said,
“Smart, men! Shut the-desks, now!” And
as one man the brigade leapt to the “cases”
of type and slammed the upper into the
lower, creating more “pi” in a minute than
a fire could have done in an hour. “Stormy
Sam” had not won his nickname for nothing
—but on this occasion words failed him.
London Referee has been celebrating its
40th anniversary. Three of its original staff
are still in harness: Richard Butler, editor;
Henry C. Newton, compiler of theatrical
and music-hall gossip ; and G. R. Sims, who
has contributed three columns of humorous
comment every week without a single break.
* * *
From the Darling Downs Gazette (Q.) :
3 Guineas, pure Berkshire Boar, six years. Send-
ing milk to factory. , Kingsthorpe.
Results of early-closing on the hardened
comp., apparently.
LINES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As empty as 'a floating keg
I sail a sea of ink.
My. pen is pointless as a peg
That holds a garment pink
A-drip on lines of high-propped rope
That wetly flap a dirge of hope.
All dream-rich words seem dull as suds
That faintly steam and soak ;
No clear, fine thought my being floods:
No ’neath her oak
Has any song. My being loathes
Monday’s tornado of wet clothes.
Spring dimples with a dewy toe
The poet and his song;
Green odes from cloudy whiskers flow
And not a rhyme goes wrong ;
My moods are mangled like a sheet
Pressed to despair in every pleat.
Dreams, thoughts, love, joy and hope are gone!
What luck to be a man !
To march, foot-firm and freely on
First in the battle’s van
Oh, damn! what use a woman’s lay
In the hot steam of washing day' ?
N.S.W.
ADELAIDE STREET.
FROM THE GENTLE “READER.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From libel and all of its terrors
Ah, hold us aloof ;
Of printers’ and linotype errors
Untangle the woof ;
From “pi” and from “literals” guard us
As if with a roof,
Who bear, ’mid the oaths that reward us,
The burden of “proof.”
VICTORIA.
QUARTER SINGLE.


w.
\
%
THREE -RIBBEE* TYRES
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
C. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St.. London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129. KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.B. 70
iP
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
rounwniren
The Parting Gift .
What Present could be more appropriate than
a Waterman’s Ideal ? It is the Gift which
will keep him in touch with home , the gift
that will enable him to write at length and
to write often A perfect fountain pen—and
there is only one—is just what every soldier
needs. His equipment is not complete with-
out one.
Thousands of Waterman’s Ideals, the
perfect fountain pen, are writing the
letters and diaries of the brave men at the
Front. If your relative or friend hasn't a
Waterman’s Ideal, claim for yourself the
privilege of giving him one. Send the
“ Safety ” type—it’s best for Active Service.
Every Pen Guaranteed. Nibs to suit all hands.
Three types—Regu'ar, Safety, and
Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN.
Comer, £*3.
Australia'. Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
' m
x
*■<
iwm
mm
SBK
ss®s
s
&
£
A*
m
A
NQ 2
MILLER
"MILLER”
Lighting Fixtures and Lamps
of all descriptions—Electric, Gas and
Oil varieties can be obtained through-
out Australia
and New Zea-
land at moder-
ate prices.
The "Miller”
quality is known
the World over
and the name
stands for the BEST in all lamp ware.
Do not fail to look over the
"Miller ” line, —it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
No. 08221
HORROCKSES^HORROCKSESj
'row_RE PYJAMAS we RECOMMEND
HORROCKSES
g„J'/dea/o’
fast colours and
SUPERIOR DESIGNS
9HORT.NAP
WELL*TWISTED YARN
«« "HORROCKSES'"
“HORROCKSES' IDEAL'
ON SELVEDGE
HORROCKSES’HORROCKSES'HORROCKSES'HORRQCKSES'g
■RROCKSES’ HORROCKSESI
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
■
84. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in, barrels, both choke; weight,
about silb Freight paid,
*4/10/-
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
836. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-holt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7$ to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7i to 7f lb. —-
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/15/-
£.3,10/-
&
m
m
837. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, ease-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight
of 12-gauge 7| to 8£ lb., 16-gauge, 7i to 8 lb. —
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £4/15/-
£4/10/-
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., post free.
ZSBSmSk
837. Winchester Automatic Repeating
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grif
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight,
' Freight paid,
838. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
12-gauge, similar description to 837 Freight paid,
Shot-Gun,
>, nickel-steel
2}in. shells.
£lO/5/-
£lO/5/-
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L,
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about Freight paid,
£7/7/-
■3
818. Winchester Automatic Repeating Rifle,
1903 Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about silb. ; sighted
point blank to 100 yards; will kill at 500 Freight paid,
£6/151-
SWEET CROP Smoking Mixture.
Really Delightful.
l^o i. tin, 1/1 (post free).
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/2/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/5/'
With Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/5/'
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model
25/20-, 32/-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about s|lb Freight paid,
£4/17/6
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892 Model,
octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes 25 short
long, or 18 long rifle cartridges; weight ojlb.—
Freight paid
Same as above, with round barrel
Freight pai
80-
75/-
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl), also “Sure Catch” Anglers’
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both lists. They
are money savers.
7C
• •
fIUSTROLTris GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
7WD TOBTICCOTiISTS
City Sports Depot
119 Kink St also at
Tiewccisik d Brisbane


Gin Pills
Will Help
You.
Women!
Read and
Note.
I|6
and
2/6
«rr
r
r
\\
The World
for Women.
Women have always had
their work to do in the
world. Now the work is
to be increased. Broader
fields are being thrown open
to the feminine portion of
the world. The men must
fight, the women must
work. So more than ever
must women look after
their health. Backs must
not be allowed to ache,
eyes must be clear and
brains fresh. Now is the
time to attend to any in-
cipient Kidney Trouble.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
will banish the fear
of Kidney Trouble by
removing the cause. The
ache caused by a defective
filtration of the blood often
leads a woman to think
that she requires an un-
necessary operation. So
look first to your Kidneys,
and that can best be done
by judicious use of Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, for
they not only take away
the cause of Backache, but
leave the organs strong and
invigorated. The woman
with a household to look
after needs keep herself
strong for her task, the
working girl must not let
her back become weakened
by too much standing, and
the brain worker must keep
her body in perfect order,
so that the handicap of
being a woman need not
affect her responsible
work.
All classes of women
find in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills a secure and safe
remedy for bodily weak-
ness and ailments which
might prevent them from
shouldering the burdens
now being pressed down
upon them. Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills are sold every-
where in air-tight, sealed-
glass containers. Small
size, 1/6; large size, hold-
ing more than twice the
quantity, for 2/6.
D* J h'ELDONS
Gt*
PIU,S
BANISHES
BACKACHE.KIDNEY. BLADDER
AND URINARY TROUBLES
FOOD WANTED AT FftONT
* ——
A SOLDIER’B SUGGESTIONS -j
i Suggestions at to the Hfte that are most
acceptable at the front are contained in a let-J
ter Juet received by a Melbourne business
man from hie soldier ton. The letter la from
France, dated March J 4;
["lt la well that people In Australia should
know . that rations are sufficient for »om» (
people, but "bare. ‘ All comforts should now
take the form of foodstuffa Never waste
'met on cigarettes. They are a aefular,
Mvft and they are always obtainable. Our
men are not short of pocket money, but they
Sannot now buy extra eatables. For ex-1
wmpla. French peasants are fined 100 francs
tor oejHhf: bread to eoldtors.
milks of various'
Sen
Anitka of various
etisirtg' that will keep
TJenT^uTTerTFl^ar
I Hacked, summer fa now approaching. Put
Uf energies Into food, nations ace deadly
interesting The rations are so ®ono J _
. a>a men And dittpulty in eating
A genuine
extract
from a
soldier s
letter
Send a tin or
two of this
mos
appetizing
Cheese
It keeps well
when opened
and spreads
like butter.
“REX '
Luncheon Cheese
is sold by all Grocers everywhere, Ask for it
L and refuse proffered substitutes.
Send him also a tin
of
“ Rex ”
Camp Pie.
It is ready to eat
from the tin. Tasty
and nourishing.
\JWC to
Q
IV
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LIMITED,
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon.
Now Do the Entering
Trumpets Sound.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, have you seen the red fire burn?
From Shooting Hill I saw the flame,
Blood-dropping, like a dragon turn,
Mid-over Castle Dunsiname.
And scattered down the river-bank
The thin white, thirsty stars
Dabbled the water while they drank
Between their vizor-bars.
A thousand men are on the hill,
A thousand tread the vale
In Almaine rivets, hake and bill,
From Finch to Borrowdale.
Too late old Upwell smells the pitch,
The thorns and straws that bite his gate.
What ’vails him now the foreign bitch,
Her curls of gold and fat estate?
A cannon-stone by lucky stroke
Hath split his tower-bell,
The pluekt heads on the portcul post
Fry crisp in fire of Hell.
By Peter’s face, I’d give this hand
To steek him in his den
Who brake my back and pilled my land...
And, worse, among his men
Did halve my women for their lust;
I saw one’s creeping eyes
Steal down my wife —once did I thrust;
There, where he fell, he lies.
Now do the entering trumpets sound,
The young Lord goeth in
All wreathed in smiles and clean of wound
As e’er his heart of sin.
Again he cometh out, this Lord,
As went he in, secure ;
But, swinging at his saddle-board,
Old Upwell’s head for sure.
His milk-white steed doth seem a cloud
But newly ’scaped from Heaven,
The sparks that blow about her hooves
Red stars down driven.
VICTORIA.
HUGH McCRAE.
Kitty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY 1914 proposal was made to Kitty
Dare, and, greatly to my surprise,
she accepted me.
I had got into the habit of proposing
marriage to some girl or other every year
when on my holidays, and in extending this
customary courtesy to Kitty Dare I had
taken it for granted that she would explain
that she had never thought of me in that
way, and for the remaining fortnight of my
holidays would treat me with the kindness
due to a man nursing a wounded heart while
presenting a brave face to the w T orld. This
particular proposal, moreover, was tinged
slightly with altruism. I was aware of cer-
tain circumstances connected with Miss
Dare’s visit to Lilydale with her father, and
felt that if I could contrive to give her a
new, though temporary, interest in life I
would be doing her a real kindness. The
“certain circumstances” were that Kitty,
the daughter of a widower, an M.L.C. weighed
down with cash, had lost her pretty head
over a bank clerk, or something equally
absurd; with the result that old Dare had
promptly forbidden the banns, got the fellow
transferred to somewhere up the country, and
had brought Kitty to Lilydale so that rural
breezes might blow the cobwebs of love from
her nice brown eyes.
As a journalist, I was on speaking terms
with Dare, M.L.C., and he introduced me to
his daughter. Obviously he classed me as
matrimonially impossible and did not seem
to think that, however much I might be
with Kitty, we would be likely to attain that
degree of familiarity that breeds contretemps.
In a fortnight I felt that unless a new inter-
est were added to our companionship we
would begin to bore one another. As Kitty
was the only girl in any way passable at
the hotel, this would have been disastrous.
So I took what seemed to me the most suit-
able course, with the result mentioned at
the beginning of this absorbing narrative.
And at this stage let me acknowledge that
the tone of semi-cynical indifference which I
have adopted is largely a literary pose ; one
that seems to take hold of me as soon as I
start fingering the keys of a typewriter. As
a matter of fact, I was hard hit by Kitty
Dare the first moment I met her. Had she
been the daughter of poor but honest parents
I would probably have asked her in all
earnestness to marry me. But I confess to
a prejudice against a Legislative Councillor
as a father-in-law. However, as soon as I
found that Kitty took me seriously, I pulled
myself together and resolved to take her
seriously. Unquestionably she was one of
the most alluring samples of femininity I
had met with. She w 7 as both pretty and
lively, and was very fond of reading my
paragraphs. I could only assume that I had
caught her heart on the rebound. Also, in
view of the fact that his income Was reputed
to be about £6OOO a year, I felt that I
might reconcile myself to Dare, M.L.C.
Whether Dare would ever become recon-
ciled to me was another matter. I mentioned
my doubts on this point to Kitty and she
counselled that we should say nothing of
our engagement for the present. To this I
agreed, thinking that silence now might prove
golden in the future.
The next week was one of the happiest of
a. misspent life. We went for walks to Sas-
safras and Mount Dandenong and for motor
trips (in Dare’s Rolls-Royce and. unfortu-
nately, with Dare as chaperon) to Heales-
ville and the Blacks’ Spur. The more I was
with Kitty the more I grew to believe in all
her endearing young charms. She had a
way of laughing at my jokes and remarking
“Silly ass!” that made me feel that, as a
humorist, Mark Twain was a back number
and Joe Cook an “also ran.” The only thing
that worried me was the thought of what
would happen when I broke the news ' to
father.
Then one night as we sat together on the
hotel balcony, while Dare, M.L.C., launched
an offensive against the claviola, Kitty came
out with her startling proposal that we should
elope! It sounded absurdly mid-Victorian,
and I suggested that a much better course
would be for her to acquaint her parent with
the true state of affairs (to a certain extent)
and ask permission to pay her addresses to
me. Kitty would not hear of this. She
seemed resolved upon an elopement and had
it all planned out.
We were to rise early on Thursday morn-
ing (the balcony scene took place on Tues-
day evening) and motor to Alexandra, a
hundred and something miles away, where
she knew a parson who would be willing to
do the deed. She had, in fact, taken the
liberty of writing to let him know what was
required of him. I pointed out the impro-
priety of this step.
“My dear old thing, I have known him for
years," was her reply. “All you have to do
is to arrange last thing Wednesday night—-
as late as possible, so that my noble father
won’t get to hear of it —to have the car out
at six o’clock on Thursday morning.”
“Kitty,” I observed, after the manner of
the cynical hero of an American comedy—
“ Kitty, I do not doubt that you are the most
wonderful thing that has happened since
Genesis, giving in Helen of Troy, Olga
Petrova and the rest, but not even you will
induce me to awake and arise at such a
grossly indecent hour.”
“Now, don’t talk like an idiot child, dear
one, but listen. We will make it a quarter
to seven, if you like, but not a minute later.
You know all about the workings of the car,
so that will be all right. Now, say you
agree, and we will arrange matters with my
musical parent after the Reverend Jimmy
Jackson has done his little bit!”
Inside, Dare, M.L.C., was softly awaking
his heart on the claviola, and the hackneyed
old “Samson and Delilah” aria seemed
strangely appropriate. Out on the balcony,
Delilah, flushed and bright-eyed, was an easy
winner.
I have not had a very wide experience of
elopements, but ours certainly was an exceed-
ingly pleasant one. Early rising has never
been one of my vices, and it was Kitty, tap-
ping on the door of my room with her tooth-
brush, who got me out of bed. I did not
feel very kindly towards the world when I
sneaked downstairs and across the road to
the garage. There Kitty was waiting, glow-
ing with health and excitement, and she
quickly altered my outlook, almost reconcil-
ing me to the irritating romanticism of the
whole business.
It was about half-past seven when we left
Lilydale, and we reckoned on a couple of
hours’ start on Dare, should he experience
a brain-wave, grasp the situation and pursue
us in another car. I found that the early
morning, once you get on hand-shaking terms
with it, can be very agreeable, and after we
had each put away a brandy and milk at
Healesville life really seemed worth living.
As we climbed the hills and went coasting
down the cathedral aisles of the Blacks’
Spur, Kitty laughed gaily or broke into
snatches of song; while at one time the
effect of her cold little nose pressed against
my neck threatened serious consequences to
my steering.
I was feeling rather ridiculously happy
myself, but considered it necessary to en-
deavor to curb Kitty’s high spirits.
“It is all very well now,” I told her, “but
what are you going to say to the eminent
legislator we’ve left behind?”
“I’ll go to him and say to him with com-
pliment ironical: sing Tley, to you, Good-
day to you,’ and that’s what I will say”—
and somehow her singing had the effect of
making Dare, M.L.C., seem a person of small
importance.
We had breakfast at Narbethong and con-
tinued the journey in sunshine, the car
behaving nobly. We made Alexandra before
noon, and took a room at the most palatial
pub. Kitty decided to lunch with the Jack-
sons, and, incidentally, I suspected, explain
away any doubts the reverend gentleman
might have concerning the rather conspicuous
absence of poor old father. After fixing her
fringe and giving me directions for finding
the parson’s house, Kitty left me to lunch
at the hotel and explore the gay city in search
of a ring. “Any old sort of a ring will do
at present,” she gurgled as she kissed the
mole on my neck. “Ta-ta till two o’clock.
If my parent should arrive before then, come
at once. If the Reverend Jimmy won’t do
the deed we’ll kidnap him. take him on to
the next town and persuade him with red-
hot hatpins or something.”
I had lunch and managed to buy a ring
that would not have been out of place in a
penny prize-packet. Next I purchased an
excruciating shave. It was on leaving the
barber’s that I saw a motor-car, with the
Honorable Jabez Dare, M.L.C., at the steer-
ing-wheel, draw up outside our hotel. The
honorable gentleman had not seen me, so I
wasted no time in travelling per boot to the
parsonage.
The Reverend James Jackson himself
opened the door. “Good-afternoon,” I said.
“I have come to be marr that is to say,
is Miss Dare here?”
He smiled benignly. “No, they left about
twenty minutes ago.”
“ They f”
“Miss Dare —I mean, Mrs. Clarkson and
her husband. She said that a gentleman
friend might call later, and I was to tell
you not to wait. She will write.”
I took a good grip of my emotions, and
tried to speak calmly. “Miss Dare, of course,
is an old friend, but I have not —er —had the
pleasure of meeting Mr.—er —Mr —?”
“Mr. Richard Clarkson. Oh, an estimable
young man. He is accountant at the Indus-
trial Bank. He only came to the town a
few weeks ago from Melbourne, and arranged
with me early this week to marry him to-
day.”
I murmured something fatuous and got
away. Scarcely knowing where I was going,
I found myself back at the hotel, and drew
up suddenly on hearing the angry voice of
Dare, M.L.C., in the commercial room. His
references to me were most unparliamentary.
“What’s the good of blaming him?” I
heard Kitty say. “The poor old thing wasn’t
in the joke, was he, Dicky? I just used him
as a chauffeur!”
HARRISON OWEN.


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS ILL?
I lie kidneys are the life and strength of the back. When
they are ill the back is ill—feels weak, and aches day and
night. . Sharp, cutting pains run through you. Work is
impossible; and what with headaches, dizziness, nervousness,
bladclei and urinary troubles, your health is quite broken
down. A few doses of Doans'Backache Kidney Pills will
make a wonderful improvement in you, and a course of the
medicine will cure you. For Doan’s Pills reach and heal
the kidneys themselves help them to remove from the body
all the lrnpui lties that poison the blood and cause such
diseases as rheumatism, dropsy, Bright’s disease, urinary
disorders, gravel, headache, dizziness, etc.
SERIOUS KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED.
SYDNEY MAN’S WONDERFUL RECOVERY.
aAg-sjy;- ab grtjs'gvas sssr£sr= ■.■sg-.-sss
a—i SEHFrSrE
able amount. Everything failed and I pafn and care^l
to ntFZS? Theflav C b^ ddineSB ; ’Vf <la f; hes and ? ca lding urine. I was completely done up and scarcely able
Kidnk Pill® g ir t ? i a PP ol “ted for the operation, when a friend asked me if I had tried Doan’s Backache
bv these l ni Hs d me he knew of a man who was as bad as I was, and had been completely cured, and fordod
later postponed the operation, and commenced using Doan's Backache Kidney Pills y fortnight
nossihle u hevP« WOr h “ d .* e men there could not believe the change they saw in me would 'have evei• bfen
1 Fr nrde r™? no doubt ltis . wonderful. lam quite cured and as fit for work as a man could be”
imnu i dl '' Mr Higgms says:-‘‘The above statement is true, every word, and I can now add the
nniini? k th k S p -r.^T e of every distressing symptom of kidney trouble. My lasting cure is nroof
positive that Doans Backache Kidney. Tills will cure serious kidney complaint.” g P ° f
r e //sA
Story
rvery
r/cture
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold at 2/9
per bottle at all Chemists and Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Be Sure You Get “DOAN'S.”
The Milk of Human Kindness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOE OLDER, licensed dairyman, sighed
guiltily behind his evening paper when
he saw his pretty little wife, who was
also honorary bookkeeper, biting the handle
of her pen and frowning at page 59 of the
ledger.
“Joe!”
“Y>s, Em?” —with an affectation of mild
surprise and husbandly interest.
“Y T ou’ll have to go up to-night again and
see them Lygons! They owe us fifty quid
for milk now, and I’ve had more than a
hundred quids’ worth of worry out of it.
I'll get your boots now and you can catch
them before they go out.” She slammed the
ledger and started for the door, but was
stopped by his protesting cry. “It’s no good
worryin’ ’em now, Em—l know Lygon hasn’t
got it!”
“I know he won't have all of it! I could
guess that without bein’ told. But I want
you to go up and get some of it, even if it’s
only five bob. Blow those people!”
“Oh, well. I’ll go if you like —but I know
what th’ end of it will be!”
His wife was so struck by his hopeless
tone that she drew up a chair to the table
and sat down to have it out comfortably.
“Look here, Joe! Can you tell me why you
let Lygon run up his bill to fifty quid for
milk an’ then won’t go an’ ask him for your
money?”
“I have asked him,” said the milkman
evasively.
“Well, why don't you get it? You get it.
out of the others —why don't you get it out
of Lygon?”
“Oh, he’s diff’rent —a man can't go talkin’
s’lic’tors to him /”
“An’ why not?” demanded the logical
bookkeeper. “He’s got a right to pay his
just debts!”
“He’ll pay some time, old girl,” said the
milkman with a breezy confidence which
seemed rather artificial. “Lygon’s all right
—lie’s not like th’ rest of ’em !”
“Oh, all right! If you don’t need th’
money I suppose he’s welcome to it!”
“Now don’t go on like that, Em !”
“Well, anyone ’d think you had money to
chuck in the gutter the way you let that
account run on! I’m sick of keeping the
rotten books an' makin’ out that account
month after month ! Do you want th’ money
or don’t you?”
Joe drew a deep breath to keep himself
from cursing. “Look, Em ! I’ll tell you
what we'll do! You haven’t met them
Lygons yet—never been up there, have you?”
“No, why?”
“Well, you put on your hat and we’ll go
along and see them together. Then when
we ve done talkin’ business we’ll go along to
the pictures for an hour.”
It wasn’t often they got out together.
Little Mrs. Older ran upstairs to get her
hat. .Toe had a whimsical look as he pulled
on his boots and laced them.
Just as she appeared at the head of the
stairs he came to the foot. “Got any money
“Yes
“Bring us down a quid, will you ?”
She got the pound and handed it over in
thejiall. Tais Lygon. lies an aitist, isn t
u \' Yps< niep chap< too . Are.you ready?”
“I'm all right Oh, hold on a jiff! I
don’t think I’ve got a duty stamp with me!”
“Oh. never mind that!" said her husband
and bustled her out ot the
they walked along the moonlit streets
Mrs. Older told him what she intended to
say to Lygon when she met him face to face,
“The cheek of any man owing fifty pounds
f,)r » lilk! If been awaj ', al , tbe n “
months he wouldn t have got such a long
s e ai q on the account. I don’t know how you
managed to do it. I'll get it out of him if
you don’t!”
"All right—but don't make it too hot.
He's not like the rest, remember!”
They turned into the dark porch of a pile
of set . ond . rat e flats that had started in life
as a coffee palace, and slowly climbed four
flights of stone stairs that coiled round an
empty lift-shaft. Little Mrs. Older paused
l m lt . ever -Y landin ” fo , r breath,, and used it up
ot the ~
is sthe whispered as they reached the fifth
and led the way to a green-draped
' The' door within opened at the second
knock and a tall man stared at them. “Oh,
come iu . o]d man m he said very heartily,
extending his hand. The milkman shook it
bashfully. “I’ve brought Mrs. Older with
me >» he said ] ame i v .
“Very pleased to meet you, Mrs. Older.”
said th artigt> and Rll ook hands with his
determined dun. Then in a most disarming
way he motioned them inside.
. The visitors (they felt they had become
visitors now) passed meekly in and found
themselves iu a cleverly-furnished room made
creditor-host, placing comfortable chairs.
The first fragrant smoke-wreaths were just
2?°end n of r When ” portie T, at , tbe
-' ,<nd a woman and'a^pnle^u -e
stepped in. She had evidently been disturbed
while reading, for an open book was pressed
against her breast, and the open hand cover-
ing it attracted the eyes of the milkman’s
wife. On the middle finger was a fine signet
ring that looked worth at least fifty pounds.
Tmmuncef tlm' artist as
though introducing rich buyers ‘ ‘‘this is
T
advancing with a hriliilnt™mile Ml “sl'>o«i
0 f you to come!” She sank smilingly Into
a chair, and little Mrs. Older, a trifle dazed
and quite incapable of talking about money,
resumed hers.
Then Mrs. Lygon picked up a shining
silver casket from the table at her elbow
and said, offering it to poor Em, “Try one
of these—l can recommend them !”
Em leant forward curiously and found it
contained a handful of fat cigarettes with
Egyptian writing on them. Did she refuse?
Well, if she had any Sunday-school virtues
it wasn’t likely she was going to parade
them in that company. She prided herself
that she could be as good a sport as the next
girl when occasion called for it. In a
minute she was puffing away and enjoying
herself. Joe, who had taught her how to
smoke at their first picnic, didn’t object, and
she knew how. Ileal friendly people these
Lygons—no side about them.
“Let me take your hat!” exclaimed Mrs.
Lygon—quite suddenly, like that. Em
obediently took it off and saw it borne away
reverently to the inner room. Then Mrs.
Lygon rustled back smilingly like an old
friend and they all settled down —Lygon
producing a bottle of good whisky and some
extras so that he and his dear old friend
Older could settle with absolute firmness.
Em. gazing at the fascinating Mrs. Lygon
through a mist of blue cigarette smoke,
remembered once or twice in a far-off way
that she bad come there to talk very straight
about milk and fifty pounds; but there
seemed to be so many other nicer things to
talk about and so many pictures and books
to see that business seemed a sordid and
profane thing. To tell the truth Em was
so tired of grubbing and counting and writing
milk accounts in backhand that she found
it a heavenly relief to get right away from
it for a while. These artist-people didn't
seem to fret themselves about the common
worries of life ; and they were real clever —
no get away from it. Look at those pictures
now ! And the way they talked !
When Mrs. Lygon made the mystic
feminine sign that means “Let’s go and look
at clothes while these men-children talk!”
Em rose eagerly and followed the temptress
through the portiere into the regions beyond.
And Lygon, as soon as the women had gone,
commanded the willing milkman to have
another whisky and shoved the cigars his
way. And all the time he talked pictures
in a way that made a man breathless, and
asked Joe’s opinion—not only asked it but
seemed to value it when given. And when
Joe ventured to tell him. as artist to artist,
of a pretty little bit of country near a
friend's dairy, the painter wrote down the
location and how to get there. Then it
appeared it was time for another whisky-
yes. have another. “Right you are. old man.
Bat make it a weak one. That’ll do !”
The reappearance of Mrs. Lygon with his
wife—now hatted for the road —brought the
flushed and happy Joe to his feet. Surely
it wasn’t 11 o’clock already! As always
happens on such occasions, the breaking-up
only ended two separate conversations by
merging it into a four-handed babel, fluey
all talked and joked with great animation
for 20 minutes before the door was opened
to let the visitors out.
“Good-night, old man!” “Good
and come and see us again, won’t voiH'>
“Yes, good-night!” 3 U-
“Good-bye!” (The door closed ,i„, 4
reluctantly.) almost
Little Mrs. Older chattered awav W •,
at top-speed as she and her husband walk 5
home. She had had one of the great na ,
turous evenings of her married life\ n a en '
slightly above herself. But her
been there before and suffered
recoveries. So he said nothing, but waited"
Hie cold night air and the e „iW
approach to the old familiar locality
to sober and silence Em suddenly
hesitated and caught her husband’s amt
guiltily. It was lovely, Joe—but I a hit a
say a word about the money!” (nt
He shook her off impatiently. “Oh don't
worry, Em! Its no good worry in’ aw
money all the time! We’ve had a tuT
good night, and we’ll get the money S
he sells some of them pictures of his”
“’Course, .Toe, I enjoyed it an’ all that
but we re not any better off than when ™
started, are we?” n
“We’re a quid better off than we might
have been, old girl!” sut
“Go on! Y °u don’t mean to say Ton
asked him for money to-night and got some”
After th’ way they treated us! I wouldn’t
have had the pluck to ask him. straight”’
“Ask him for nothing! You can’t ask a
man like him! What I mean is that
and her come in before he had time to borre
that quid from me! He always horrors from
me when I go up to collect from him ’ TliaH
why I can’t afford to go collectin’ there'”
KODAK.
The Seamstress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m after wearing: the rose all day
"W ith its breath like hon-y that wine has
wed,
While the foolish lips o’ me high and gay
Sing a song of lovers this long-time dead.
’Tis me should be bro! 'ering the wedding
gown,
With a rose-bud here, and a love-knot
there,
An’ sure it's the beauty of all the town
Has ordered this shimmer of satin to wear.
’Tis the luck o’ the world come to her and
me,
It’s the two of our men are back from
France,
Though hers. God save us, Will never see
And Hinny’s cork leg will not let him
dance.
Och, tln> old-time song will be haunting mv
head !
If my fingers slacken ’tis small their
blame, „
When a rose like honey that wine has wed
Burns on my heart with its heart of
flame.
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
_Vlotorlan Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
&
\
m
v>
7/
7/
%
”i 11*4;
*A2
-m
ji'»
—p-
«• .•«.. -=-ji
Remjfgton,
CARTRIDGES
users
of sliot gun cartridges have
given tbe Remington UMC
brand tLe stamp of tkeir approv-
al. Supplied in black and smokeless pow-
der loads. All cases are waterproofed.
Ask your dealer for them or send for
descriptive catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO./
D. D. Bryant, Manags*
Box 686, Melbourne
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(N on-ap erient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and Bxternal Bleeding Piles, some
liter suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 8/- pei Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. lB9l.
m'
mm
m
k H m
'A
■LI
w
' mm
m m a
4t#f Af#!
■ % I
m
i mm
wrn
Keep the
home Fires
fcv burnin Sa
Gives alastinq
lather and a
smooth shave
A
iljprM!
\ / s'M' , yd FiV
%&is
F
Guaranteed
not to dry
on the face
From all Chemists & Stores.
Agents:
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St, Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
JCow To Keep JUatthy
Almost everybody requires at times a little medicine, that is at once
cleansing and strengthening in its action. Men and women, even of
the healthiest, occasionally need a reliable remedy which will relieve
and correct liver, stomach and bowel derangements and at the same
time, act as a general tonic. For these purposes there |is no family
medicine better than Beecham’s Pills. So pronounced are the
benefits derived from the use of this famous preparation that many
people have come to regard Beecham’s Pills as indispensable to the
maintenance of health. Carefully compounded from specially
selected ingredients of great medicinal value., Beeeham’s Pills may
be confidently relied upon to correct to relieve strengthen and
restore. Any disorders of digestion or run-down condition of the
system should be treated at once with
Beecbam’s Pills
><
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM. St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1 (56 pills) & 2/9 (16S pills).
i f
10/-
Post Free
Thousands in
(Patented)
Fig f
—~ti ■
10/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
Fig &
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOOR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS— *
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Saving's Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 ~ it
£8 15 O I, t if
£4-3 15 0 ii ii
£B7 10 O „ „
£875 0 O I, ii
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6~ War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank or Australia. October, 1917
** »~j O/f
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED.
Loftus Street.
SYDNEY.


MANGROYITE
LEATHER
BELTING
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAN GliO Vll'i]” Rawhide, which
differs from ail other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
mm
CAPITAL
“ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE. ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Dannmon Steel Works. SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
Iw x3* £'x3" fx3" f 6 x4" i'
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
x 4"
EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO
379 Kent St.
SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Fibrolite ” House Outshines
P® fIW Other Buildinas HH
In Economy of Construction.
In Durability.
In Appearance.
In Cost of Upkeep.
Hardi,s fibrolite;.*,
fiFMFNT The Australian-made
w h ill Li ll | Asbestos Cement Sheets
Ibis is what “Fibrolite” saves in com-
parison with the Weatherboard House:
Cost of Painting One-third Less.
Less Timbering for Studding.
Labor Costs Lower.
25% Reduction in Insurance.
Write for Booklet “D” and samples.
James Hardie 8 Co. Circ^ r D Q N u | y Y WeBt -
’Phone 6239 (3 lines).
SSI- 3 Street > MELBOURNE.
*
WOLFE
.SCHNAPPS
MADE FROM
the best selected!
BARLEY
AND
ITALIAN
JUNIPER
BERRY
n
LOOK FOR THE NAME
Two High-class Australian-made Oil Engines.
Our stocks of the popular TANG YE -Oil Engines are now low, due to Messrs.
Tangyes’ Big Works at Birmingham, England, having some time ago been taken
over by the Munition Authorities for War purposes.
We have, however, negotiated Agencies for Australian-made Engines, which are
most creditable productions, and which we otter with the same degree of
confidence. .... r , . » R „
THE “TRIUMPH.”
A vertical-type Benzine or Kerosene Engine, made
in two sizes only, viz., Si and 5 b.h.p. (Stationary
and Portable). Has Magneto Ignition. Excellent
finish throughout.
A portable Horizontal Kerosene Oil Engine, made
in three sizes, 63, 8 and 10 b.h.p. Has Magneto
Ignition. It is a High-grade Portable Engine at
a very LOW Cost.
DALGETY (St CO. LTD.. Miller’s Eoint, SYDNEY.
™ * m m. jb. *9 **,**> *
Agents for JBuncle Chaff cutters, Gane Milking Machines, Clayton Portable Engines, Tangye Pumps, E.R.B. Separator Engines, etc.
gfi
'wmWZiti
m
ITHE
m
m
m
s'l-''.'.-..
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
——absolutely reliable
When you instal a “Wolseley” Shearing Machine you know that it will please you
. cun all viewpoints.
Pastoralists find the “Wolseley” most dependable, and most profitable; shearers, too,
are invariably pleased with it.
There are many reasons why your choice of a Shearing Machine should be a “Wolseley.”
Make enquiries from
BALGETY & COMPANY LTD., Australasian Agents ALL BRANCHES.
SAFETY FIRST
SERVICE ALWAYS-
The Problem of Safety—the Problem of Eliminating Waste Power—
of the Reduction of present Factory Costs —these are all
solved for you by equipping your plant with
Dodge Power Transmission Appliances
Pulleys, Self-Oiling Bearings, Adjustable Shaft Hangers. Friction Clutches, Couplings, Collars, etc.
The pleasing design, ample strength, wide adjustability and the ease with which it can all be erected, add greatly to the merits of
the Dodge line, and must appeal to all practical Engineers and Mill Owners. Carried in Stock for quick delivery by Sole Agents—
PARKE (& LACY CO. ETD.,
y»>vtfcr Transmission Appliances,” is available.
and
arence
Machinery
St., ~
Merchants,
N.S.W.
JOHNSON & PHILLIPS LTD.
CHARLTON KENT.
T ransformers. Cables.
Switchgear. Arc Lamps.
AUSTRALIAN
AGENTS:
-I
BUILDING,
Full Particulars
from following
Representatives-
SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN PTY. LTD., 379 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE LTD., 37 King Street, Perth.
ELEC. CONSTRUCTION CO. OF AUST. LTD., Preston House, Brisbane.
A.C. SWITCHBOARD.—3OOO Volts-50 Cycles.
Five Panel. Drawout TrucK Type. All Steel*
