

30 33 "VS T The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. 6. WATKINS «Sfc 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Stiireot, Sydzxey,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sates conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
sgdsgd
NSVMOSNT DE PIETED&IC?iye
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREAGHS? SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
And
Telephone: City 9325.
On all Classes of* Security
DISCOUNTED
Easylerms Interest
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO-DAV FOR 50.PAQE BOOK,
k. OSCILLATING
WALL
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY.
'SOLD MEOAI,
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
l- and Outdoor Sleeping
American Wall Bed 'C
380 Qeorge Street, near Q.P.0., Sydney
.1
ney
SAMS*BACON
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
unket
wmmm
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made In accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
I
ď
I
i
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERYWAY.
AMIWUD
Wallboard
đ
f
g
ĝ
Samples and Booklets from The l*itraflln« Paint Oampany,
Challis House, Sydney. (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.)
MALTHOID
Roofing
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
p
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S . V. o.
HADFIELD
Stone-Breakers
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 1
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.3i._ So. 1985.1
[Thursday, January 4, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


COLE’S BOOK ARCADE.
PFRSONAL HYGIENE FOR GIRLS, by Mary Humphries 2/- posted 2/3
. r*rT«: c lrX HYGIENE. bv W. Lee Howard. 3/6, posted o/o.
TRUTHS Talks wlth a Boy Concerning Himself, by Lowry. 3/6, posted 3/8.
SELF-HELP FOR - with VOIINfi WOMEN, by L. B. Sperry. 4/«, posted 4/3 t
CONFIDENTIAL JALkS hiisiramO AND WIFE bv L. B. Sperry. 3/6, posted 3/9.
CONFIDENTIAL TALKS WH H HUSBAND AND WlFL toy u «- P y / 4/3 .
CONFIOENTIAL TALKS WITH \« U NG rtTEN by Bsp r y V
WHAT A YOUNG BOY OUGHT ID K™w, ny pOJjfed 5/2
WHAT A YOUNG .wp OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. $/-, posted 5/2.
WHAT A YOUNGJiUSBANiJ ouuni iu s s f a| , 5/ „, posted 5/2.
M "aT™ ANO VL.,, io Girls, by E. M. Mosher. 3/b. bos.erl 3/0
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE. 346 George St„ Sydney ; and at Bonrte St.. Melbourne.
Books answering
SEX PROBLEMS.
Tokology
A BOOK
FOR EVERY
WOMAN.
by
A. B.STOCKHAM
7/6, posted 7/9
fg
fdg
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND’
FILTH.
RILL THAT
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520,
G.P.0., Sydney, and a sample tin of ‘‘Must-
die” Powder will be sent post free, or
forward 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
1»
"MUSTDIE
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
[3
The Red Page
Kiddy Verses
Not all the verses by Annie R. Rentoul in
the gorgeous volume entitled Elves and
Fairies of Ida Rentoul Outhivaite (Lothian,
Melb.; £2 25., published by subscription and
ip* J at the beginning of last October, but
arriving at this office only last week) are
up to the whimsical standard of those quoted
here. The majority lack that original note,
and unfortunately bear the impression of
having been written merely to illustrate her
pictures. But that, after all, is their
subordinate function; for this book claims
attention as an art publication. The decora-
tive and color-work of Ida Rentoul Outh-
waite definitely places this artist in the
ranks of the leading Australian illustrators,
and in her special department, the illustra-
tion of fairy and kiddie stories, she
stands alone in the Commonwealth, and has
to look for comparison only overseas. Indeed,
she is doing for us what Arthur Rackham is
doing for the English kiddie. Artistically,
she is Racliham’s pupil; her work is a
feminine derivative of Raekham’s masculine
art. But the genealogy of her art is no dis-
paragement ; for Ida Rentoul Outhwaite’s
work is in itself so charming, so feminine,
that its dainty grace lends itself to fairy
stories even more usefully than Backhands
grotesquerie. And she has here a field that she
has alone exploited: she has domiciled the
fairies in an Australian environment. Her
pen drawings are delightful, examples of
dainty and extremely decorative work, and
her color illustrations are artistically satis-
fying. All are full .of delicate humor. Com-
pared with Norman Lindsay’s native bear,
this of Ida Rentoul Outhwaite is much too
Teddy-ish. but her other examples of our
fauna are admirably observed. Undoubtedly
this volume deserves to be ranked with the
important artistic productions in Australia,
and fortunate, indeed, must be the Aus-
tralian kiddie who owns the book. The
author and artist have decided to give all
their profits to the Red Cross Funds.
MOTHER.
I have cut my finger, mother; tie it, mother,
quick !
See, the sticky's off again; mother, make it
stick!
Mother, give me sweeties now; so I shall
not cry!
Mother, I have ate them all; mother, shall
I die?
Mother, see, I made a hat for my dolly dear,
Made it from my petticoat; look, I cut it
here!
Mother, sew me up again, where the old
hit's gone!
Here's a button off me, mother; mother,
sew it on!
Mother, God is watching me, 'cos I took a
tart;
Mother , make Him stop it, 'cos He hurts
me in my heart!
Mother, I pulled up the pansies, 'cos I
want to know
If I plant them on their heads, icill they
ever grow.
Mother, teas it God made skeeturs? Mother,
surely not!
If He made them, mother, well, He made a
blessed lot! _
Mother, I've been playing heathen in among
the coal;
Mother, I’m as black as black, and haven't
any soul!
Mother, I am awful tired, all my face is
wet;
Kiss the tears off, mother dear, so I shall
forget.
Mother, you are all the world; if you ever
go,
Take me with you, mother darling, 'cos I
love you so.
The Boomerang.
The boomerang booms and it bounces and
pops,
And continues to bumpety-bump till it
stops;
It goes round in a ring till a circle's com-
plete,
And returns to the starting-point right at
your feet.
O duckety duck and 0 swampety swan,
Keep out of the way till the boomerang's
gone;
O wallaby, waits, and O scoot, kangaroo!
For nothing will stop it unless it is you!
The brown piccaninny lives under the gums,
He doesn’t wear clothes and he doesn't do
sums ;
But he twirls a big boomerang right from
his nose,
Till it ends up a circle by kissing his toes.
O witchety grub and O sneakety snake,
The brown piccaninny prefers you to cake!
O parrot y pie and O cockatoo stew,
The boomerang's after such morsels as you!
The brown Aboriginee, sleek as a bun,
He goes out a-hunting, but'not with a gun;
Mind the bunnies so fluffety shake in their
skins
When the roundabout boomerang hurtles
and spins.
O baby brown bunny and baby brown bear,
The boomerang bumpety-bumps in the air;
For, to wrap a brown baby in, nothing will
do
But the fluffety furs that are growing on
you !
Annie R. Rentoul, in “Elves and Fairies.”
Trites
Trites again! This page had begun to
wonder whether W. B. Trites hadn’t been
listed as “missing.” His Life was a remark-
able novel; his Love (Mills and Boon, per
Dymock’s Library) is equally remarkable.
For Trites can write, whether you like his
stuff or not. In the case of Love, it will
probably be not; for there is much that is
distinctly disagreeable in “Brian Banaker’s
autobiography up to the age of 24 years.”
The question for the reader is whether
Trites means it to be disagreeable. This
page thinks he does, and pays its tribute
to his artistic sincerity. For Brian Banaker
is a millionaire; not only can he help being
a millionaire, but he revels in it. But
Brian is no best-seller’s puppet.
When Brian was 12 he determined to get
drunk. “Drunkenness,” he argued, “was
execrated by all respectable men and women.
Yet there must be pleasure in it, or other-
wise none would disgrace themselves, none
would wallow in the mire for its sake.....
What was this pleasure like ?.. . . And I
would go over in my mind the pleasures I
had myself enjoyed—the pleasure of sea-
bathing, the pleasure of reading. These
were superb pleasures, but would I accept
ruin and obloquy for them? No; never.
Clearly, then, there must be in drunkenness
a pleasure sweeter and profounder than I
had ever known. So, to plumb this pleasure,
I resolved to get drunk.” His solitary
debauch is successful.
The picture that Brian draws of his school
and. college days is, to us, an amazing one.
At his school practically all the boys used
elaborate cribs during their examinations.
A number of the boys played truant for
a week, forging their school reports for the
satisfaction of their parents. “The third
day we devoted to shop-lifting. We went
from department store to department store,
stealing.... We stole, in a kind of joyous
delirium, four or five dollars’ worth of
goods. What fun I found it!... ..” And at
his university Brian was admitted into the
most exclusive and expensive society. For
Brian claimed descent from a Prince of
Powys, and his father was president of the
College Royalists, “an organisation admit-
ting only collegians of royal blood.” His
rooms were sumptuous. He occupied the
largest suite in Haakon Hall, furnished with
Persian rugs and other appointments in
keeping, with old masters borrowed from his
father’s home on the walls. He had a bil-
liard-table, mobs of horses and a man-ser-
vant. As he complacently remarks, “It is
not astonishing that my welcome at college
was warm... .Thanks to my birth and
wealth, I rose from crest to crest of social
glory. What with my horses, my clothes,
my valet, I was the leading freshman of
the year.” Pah! But then Trites means
you to say “Pah!”
J*
“Loving beauty, I loved beautiful raiment.
My long lines of boots in their brass-
mounted forms; my cravats of rich, fresh
silk; my coats, with their trim balance; my
linen, heavy and white for evening wear,
crisp and delicately colored for the day.
..... !” That is the painful picture Trites,
with a terrible artistic sincerity, allows his
hero to draw of himself. But there are
pathetic scenes between this snob and his
parents that show the other side of
Brian ; and when he chose, as, for instance,
to win a running race, he easily swept aside
his sybaritic habits and trained with the
strictness of a professional athlete. But
he soon returned to drink. “Because I got
more happiness out of drink than out of
study and athletics.” And his birthday
party was a drunken orgie. The next step
in his education was provided by an actress.
He took her a trip to Bermuda, and on the
voyage he came into contact with the
American business man.
“As they talked my compatriots rubbed
their palms over their unshaven chins,
producing, like those Japanese insects that
rub one leg across another, a strange, harsh
note, a natural music, the anthem, as it
were, of the American business man.. And
they kept fiddling with strange objects—
with fountain-pens attached to their waist-
coat pockets by silver clips, with nickel
cigar-cutters that unfolded into foot-rules,
with combination nail-files and ear-picks
fixed to the ends pf watch-chains.” And at
Bermuda his girl deserts him for another
man. But Brian recovers, with the aid of
alcohol. “I drank with the long, tasteless
and lukewarm meal a half-bottle of cham-
pagne. I drank a liqueur with my coffee.
And during the evening I drank two or three
brandy-and-sodas. All this drinking, I was
not displeased to see, caused the pretty girls
to stare at me with wide, awestricken eyes.
At eleven I retired to my room, where,
if the spirit moved me, I drank another
brandy-and-soda while undressing. An ex-
es s- of alcohol.”
Brian determines to work. And in his
search for a profession he gives his bio-
grapher the chance to write a sickening
description of a scene in an operating
theatre, eompnruble only to Trites’ memor-
able description, in liis previous novel, of
a man dying from tetanus. Then Brian
becomes a recluse, a sybaritic recluse,
banned from society by the rumors .of his
wickedness. But he meets the beautiful .and
wealthy Marcelle. The rest of the story is
chiefly Marcelle’s beauty and Brian’s court-
ship, interspersed with elaborate menus and
lists of rare wines, and with a full list of
the bridegroom’s gifts to the bridesmaids.
This is evidently the “love” that gives the
novel its title; but though the pair are left
on their honeymoon, the careful reader re-
ceives vague hints that the marriage will
not be a happy one. liow could it, with
Brian for the husband?
A disagreeable and unnecessary book?
No; a remarkably well written book of a
disagreeable personality but a real human
being. And Trites, speaking of a genius
in his book, maybe confesses the secret of
his style: “My secret is that I can tell good
work from bad. Yes, I can tell a good sen-
tence, a good paragraph, a good chapter,
from a bad one, as you can tell a good from
a bad billiard shot. And so I crossed out
and re-wrote every bad chapter, every bad
paragraph, every bad sentence, till it was
good, as you might try a billiard shot over
and over till you got it. But there were
shots here and there I couldn’t get; so I
left them out altogether. That’s what makes
my book a little fragmentary.”
Jargon
Jargon was discovered by Arthur Quiller-
Couch, Professor of English at Cambridge
University. Full particulars are to be
found in On the Art of Writing (Cambridge
University Press, per Angus and Robertson,
Sydney; 10s.). Jargon is not Journalese.
The writer of Journalese at his worst is an
artist; “he daubs paint of this kind upon the
lily with a professional zeal” : he is trying
to embellish our language. But the Jar-
goners are not journalists. Jargon is spoken
and written by quite respectable persons. “It
is becoming the language of Parliament: it
has become the medium through which
Boards of Government, County Councils,
Syndicates, Committees, Commercial Firms,
express the processes as well as the conclu-
sions of their thoughts.” The two main
vices of Jargon are that it uses circumlocu-
tion rather than short straight speech, and
that it habitually chooses vague,, woolly
abstract nouns rather than concrete ones.
An obvious example of Jargon is to be found
in any House of Parliament. When a Minis-
ter is asked a question he cannot say “No.”
Being a Jargoner he replies: “The answer
to the question is in the negative.”
Here are some rough rules, laid down by
Quiller-Couch, for the discovery of Jargon:
“Whenever in your reading you come across
one of these words, ease, instance, character,
nature, condition, persuasion, degree—when-
ever in writing your pen betrays you to one
or another of them —pull yourself up and
take thought.” E.g., “A singular degree of
rarity prevails in the earlier editions of this
romance.” Translated into prose, this runs
simply: “The earlier editions of this romance
are very rare.” So: “He was conveyed to
his place of residence in an intoxicated con-
dition,” is, in mere prose, “He was carried
home drunk.” Here is another, extracted
by this page from a Sydney Morning
Herald editorial: “Appearances much favor
such a state of affairs being brought about.”
What the leader-writer meant to say was:
“Apparently so,” or even “Apparently.” And
here is one from The Argus: “For even
those who are convinced that a sedulously-
circulated rumor is false have not always the
means of demonstrating its falsity.” What
the writer meant was: “....can’t always
prove it.” The same writer says: “To form
leagues and to examine their operations with
a view to bringing about as complete effici-
ency as is possible.” All he need have said
was “to form and supervise leagues,” or “to
form leagues and see that they were
efficient.”
“The whole cloudy host of abstract terms”
is thus suspect. Another trick of Jargon is
that of Elegant Variation, so rampant in
the sporting press. In a student’s essay
upon Byron the writer thinks it indelicate to
repeat the poet’s name "twice on one page.
Byron becomes in turn “that great but
unequal poet,” “the meteoric darling of
society,” “this arch-rebel,” “the author of
Ghilde Harold ,” “the apostle of scorn.”
“this ex-Harrovian, proud, but abnormally
sensitive of his club-foot,” etc. As Quiller-
Couch says: “In literature as in life he makes
himself felt who not only calls a spade a spade
but has the pluck to double spades and re-
double.” Another rule is never to use such
remarks as as regards, with regard to, in
respect of, in connection tvith, according as
to whether, etc. “They are all. dodges of
Jargon, circumlocutions for evading this or
that simple statement.”
Very delightfully Quiller-Couch re-writes
Hamlet’s soliloquy in Jargon:
“To be, or the contrary? Whether the
former or the latter be preferable would
seem to admit of some difference of opinion;
the answer in the present case being of an
affirmative or of a negative character accord-
ing as to whether one elects on the one
hand to mentally suffer the disfavor of for-
tune, albeit in an extreme degree, or on
the other to boldly envisage adverse condi-
tions in the prospect of eventually bringing
them to a conclusion. The condition of
sleep is similar to, if not indistinguishable
from, that of death; and with the addition
of finality the former might be regarded as
identical with the latter; so that in this
connection it might be argued with regard
to sleep that, could the addition be effected,
a termination would be put to the endurance
of a multiplicity of inconveniences, not to
mention a number of downright evils inci-
dental to our fallen humanity, and thus a
consummation achieved of a most gratifying-
nature.”
Jargon is the product of a foggy mind, a
mind that dodges facts, a mind that is indo-
lent and timid.
War
Jolm Galsworthy collects A Sheaf from
his occasional writings (Heinemann, per
Sydney Book Club). Poor stuff, with the rust
in it. “Wild oats of a novelist, which he has
been asked to bind up.” Yes, but he needn’t
have agreed. A large portion of the collec-
tion deals, sincerely enough, with his usual
ante-bellum topics, the treatment of animals,
prisons and punishment, the position of
women. For a Dutch journal Galsworthy
attempts a diagnosis of the Englishman.
“The Englishman must have a thing brought
under his nose before he will act; bring it
there, and he will go on acting after every-
body else has stopped.... The Englishman,
partly through his lack of imagination and
nervous sensibility, partly through his inbred
dislike of extremes and habit of minimising
the expression of everything, is a perfect ex-
ample of the conservation of energy. It
is very difficult to come to the end of
him. ...The English character has a kind
of terrible coolness, a rather awful level-
headedness. . . . England produces more than
its proper percentage of cranks and-
poets; this is Nature’s way of redress-
ing the balance in a country where feelings
are not shown, sentiments not expressed,
and extremes laughed at.... The Eng-
lishman absorbs ideas slowly; would rather
not imagine anything decidedly till he is
obliged; but in proportion to the slowness
with which he can be moved, is the slowness
with which he can be removed.... For the
particular situation which the Englishman
has now to face, he is terribly well adapted.
Because he has so little imagination, so little
power of expression, he is saving nerve all
the time. Because he never goes to extremes
he is saving energy of body and spirit....
Let it be freely confessed that from an
msthetic point of view the Englishman,
devoid of high lights, coated with drab, and
superhumanly steady on his feet, is not too
attractive. But for the wearing, tearing,
slow and dreadful business of this war, the
Englishman, fighting of his own free will,
unimaginative, humorous, competitive, prac-
tical, never in extremes, a dumb, inveterate
optimist, and terribly tenacious —is equipped
with victory.”
J*'
An interesting pendant to John Masefield’s
brilliant narrative of Gallipoli is Suvla Bay
and After, by Juvenis (Hodder and Stough-
ton, per Dymock’s Library). The author is
a British captain who took a small part in
the pitiable failure of Suvla Bay. He writes
a simple story ; but, unconsciously, he betrays
the cause of the failure. For if many more
of the British captains had so little knowledge
of their task, possessed so little nous, and
were so nonplussed and confused by their
experiences in the battle, the anti-climax of
that expedition was inevitable. The arrange-
ments for water supply were horrible, and
the author does not seem to have tried very
hard to remedy this fatal omission. Appar-
ently he owed his wound to his lack of know-
legs of the use of cover. But he is incor-
rigibly cheerful about it all. Doubtless if
he had not occupied that “little eminence”
exposed to the enemy, he might have de-
veloped from the cheerful amateur into the
experienced soldier, but he became a casualty
within an hour of getting under fire.
“Stapleton”: Don’t know much of Billzac,
but do know something of Outbackers and
their literary tastes. Their tastes can be
roughly divided into blood-and-thunder,
sentiment, science. And the one thing Out-
backers do not want is books dealing .with
their own lives. Bill and Jim, knowing
there is more prose than poetry in their
environment, enweave the grey of their lives
with the crimson of a detective yarn and
the gold (pinchbeck it may be) of a love-
story. Billzac and Jimzac have not altered
from the commonplace Bill and Jim. To
the men in the trenches I would send detec-
tive yarns, sentimental tales and good Aus-
tralian magazines. To Billzac in hospital,
short stories, poetry and light reading, all
Australian for choice. Henry Lawson,
“Den,” Ethel Turner, E. J. Brady, Steele
Rudd, to mention only a few. , To Jimzac,
convalescent, up-to-date scientific, theologi-
cal and philosophical works. And, above
all, Australian books and papers, not
papers printed .in Australia by scissors-and-
paste English editors, but papers giving the
real Australian outlook.


<a
Anthony Horderns'GalleryforArt Cabinets
THERE is a wealth of beautiful productions in the FINE ART GALLERY suitable for gifts that will be regarded with genuine
admiration and permanent delight. These comprise Table China and Services that combine beauty and utility, elegant China
and Porcelain Vases, French Bronzes and Ivories, a magnificent selection of Work Cabinets, Writing tables, Smokers’ Cabinets
and Afternoon Tea Cabinets.
h
/
No. 386.—Lady’s' Elegant Jewel Cabinet, in
picked Mahogany. Unique design and superior finish.
50/-
Other designs £4/4/-,. £5/17/6
Eclipse Lady’s Folding Work Cabinet, inlaid
Mahogany, 29in. high when open; Best English Work
and Finish. Fitted complete _ £7/18/-
The Reliance.—A Lady’s Folding Work
Cabinet, in Mahogany. The Table is 30in. high
when open. It is of British manufacture, superbly
finished, and will make a serviceable gift. Complete
with fittings £B/10/-
Similar Cabinet, carried out in Fumed Oak, but filled
with writing materials £7/18/6
The Queen (Latest Novelty) Collapsible Tea
Table, with Glass Tray, effectively inlaid Mahogany.
Best English Work and Finish .. . £7/18/6
No. 7790. —Lady’s Folding Work
Mahogany, 25in. high. Best English Wort
Fitted complete
Table, in
: and Finish.
£l3/10/-
No. 3b.—Writing Cabinet, in selected Mahogany,
Inlaid, 30in. high when open. Best English make and
finish. Fitted complete £l5/15/-
ei-fl-SL gi ■w l ** g
H
HDHfI
ccalia Superb
No. 760.—Handsome Smoker’s Cabinet, new
design, in selected Mahogany, beautifully finished.
Best English Workman ship 50/-
«r
- \ \
No. 6070. —Lady’s Work Cabinet, in Mahogany,
lined Silk. Best English make. Fitted complete—
£l3/10/-
No. 1726.—Combined Writing Desk and Work
Table, 30in. high when open, carried out in polished
oak. The finish of this beautiful piece of Cabinet work
is characteristic of the finest British craftsmanship.
Complete with fittings £l9/ 157-
Similar Cabinet in Mahogany £l6/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


fdg
m^
m/)\l
&
'or
«
y\
r
.22 Caliber
Rifles and Cartridges
The pleasure of shooting a
.22 caliber rifle indoors or
outdoors depends not only
on the skill of the shooter,
but upon the accuracy of
the equipment used. The
utmost care is taken in the
manufacture of Winchester
.22 caliber rifles and cart-
ridges, and for that reason
they shoot with invariable
accuracy. Winchester .22
caliber rifles are made in
various models and styles,
and Winchester .22 caliber
cartridges are loaded with
Smokeless, “Lesmok,” and
Black powder. It is there-
fore easy to suit your taste
and get the best possible
if you will select
the reliable w brand.
all dealers sell them
fg
Your Picture in
His Watch
should be a smiling picture. It’s your smile
that recalls the charm of your personality.
Your smile cannot be attractive unless your
teeth are sound and white.
Keep your teeth in perfect condition by
visiting your dentist twice a year and by
the regular night and morning use of
:J
tm
n
m »
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
both the Tooth Powder and Cream you will find in
these two productions of Dr. Lyon’s Laboratory the cleans-
ing and safeguarding qualities that your teeth demand. Both
dissolve quickly in the mouth—leave no sticky masses be-
tween the teeth—prevent formation of tartar—correct ex-
cessive acidity of the mouth—are your best safeguard from
receding gums and loosening teeth.
If a preference exists for the Dental Cream, do not over-
look the value as a cleanser of the Tooth Powder. Best
results accrue from the use of both. The tooth powder is
the super-cleanser. Its frequent use in combination with
the dental cream is recommended.,
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
m stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Ur. Lyons Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S.W.
pmrtcf
n
rot %\wr>sM
The teeth
\ AND PURtFVINfc,.i
\ TMt BREATH
Wf SSffiVPj
its
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
?^o £ t t Sh cl b ,JaS tU ;!,h and sood
s srajs&'s?
are too"?vere on g the P °namel.’ s ”‘' ll ° 5 cl,ttlef,sb ' crabse J’ cs ' OT “ de ■*«»» »» d charcoal
the Stli El h^en 0 ST H PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
FTTT&WTJI if fW f th and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
ElDh\TAi, therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
wheie. I ost free 1/3. t ree sample posted. ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne
FEDERAL. LORRIES
Known the World Over
for their reliability and service-giving qualities. Built in a factory
with an international reputation for the care and painstaking methods
with which it has built thousands of lorries, this kind of construction
earned for the iederal the only Gold Medal awarded lorries at the
recent Panama-Pacific Exposition.
Federals are made in three sizes—1-J ton, 2 ton, 3-| ton, all constructed
with the efficient, dependable worm drive.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635 Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[i
WAVERLEY
THE “BOON AND BLESSING” NIB
df
gdf
gfd
g
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world-wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold & Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
n ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do vou
want to obtain an Appliance that is not o'nlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you' particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does awav altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT'SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREIL
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
1 The medicine that goes hand in hand
with good health—a kind of twin brother
—that brings physical confidence,
strength, mental energy and clearness, is
Clements Tonic, because it
possesses those specific properties that re-
build the human constitution, strengthen
its working parts, cleanse the. stomach
and purify the blood, thus creating new
conditions with health results to the user.
If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the
testimonies given afford it, written by
those who can well afford by experience
to judge of its merits. For the general
good of the public they are published,
and are well worth reading by everyone.
Over 100 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been
received during the months of March, April and May, which may be
seen and verified at the offices of the Company, Clements Tonic Ltd.,
Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or store to-day, and get well.


£
For
Wet
Shampoo
There is
nothing
better
for the
hair
than
1 cil m a
Shampoo Sachets —they
thoroughly cleanse the
scalp, help the hair to
grow (they are the only
wet shampoos that do
this), and give a feeling of
comfort and cleanliness that
ordinary shampoos and
household soaps cannot
equal. A necessity (not a
luxury) for all who value
their appearance and
British made.
fUKH
Shampoo Sachets
(For Wet Shampoo).
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
J. C. Gambles & Co., Agents, ,
11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
A.S. 2
m
m
The
Hot
Sun
&
Dust
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
if you use freely several times a day
ROWLAND'S
KALYDOR
which cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London,
TOBACCO KILLS!
J -
-)
Face to Face with Deal 1 ' /
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure lot
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “/ was a hard smoker for SO
years, but since t akin a your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. Q,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
1 -BONNINGTON & CO., LTD
179 HARRIS ST.. SYDNEY^.
A COOLING LOTION
FOR SUNBURN. BATHERS
MOTORISTS
Aill Chemists 1/6 Bottle
OB POST FREE
losquitobane
A friend v in need for
Camping. Fishing, the
Bush. Etc. Will keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
all chemists
1/6 Bottle
k or y*ost Free
fdg
17® HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
CELEBRATED
I
&
vW
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
bv the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few. days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
Viz.: —
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K W. Bradley, Worando Buildings. Adelaide.
T L Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L Susman &Co , Merchants, Hobart. [I
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
fdg
If any illustration appearing in Ihe
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Iner
m
jr
Ur
r '
IK
u
n.t
5s
p^rps*'
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its history
THE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica \ and Constipation.
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR ISO YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents.
Messrs. H. A. W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruachen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Summer Day.
In my heart soft music throbs.
Like a lilt of some air sweet,
Played bv bands afar,, that sobs
Faintly through a silent street.
It was such a time as this,
In the Warm embrace of day,
All the world, attuned to bliss,
Swooning in its rapture lay.
Lazily, the sea-lips fell
On the warm edge of the sand ;
Bound within the summer’s spell
Life and Love went hand in hand.
Languid laughter filled the air.
Heavy with the scent of flow rs ;
Thistledown flew here and there—
Thoughts as light as that were ours!
Carnival all nature held,
And its harmonv of sound
With a gentle music spelled
All the earth in joy profound.
Beating to the rise and fall
Of its splendid melody,
Human hearts obeyed its call,
Answering with laughter free.
High above the crowded beach,
Where the murmur of the throng
Faintly to our ears might reach
Like the echo of a song,
On a bank of couch-like grass,
Pleasant in a ti-tree’s shade,
Letting hours idly pass,
Through the we stayed.
Here and there a cloud was wrought
’Gainst the sky’s warm blue —a toy,
Like a soft and tender thought,
Floating on a sea of joy.
All the glory of the earth,
All the sunshine of the day,
All Life’s love, and all it’s mirth
Shrined in you, beside me lay.
You are gone.... And yet I feel,
Born anew in summer heat,
Thoughts of you within me steal,
Memories of pleasures sweet.
In my heart soft music throbs,
Like the lilt of some air sweet,
Played by bands afar, that sobs
Faintly down a silent street.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Grief.
Night in her caravan as black as Death „
Came to my chamber, saying “Follow me,
Shut off the clamor of my startled breath —
Led me, red eyed, into Eternity.
O Grief, I died upon thy stinging lips,
Feeling the tempest of my soul arise,
Fronting the heavens as a ship that dips,
Cabled and cargoed with a freight of sighs!
God sat there spinning in a silent place,
Watching me walk the bitter past again ;
Wrinkled the blossom of my fair young face.
Bruised were my eyes with many stings of
pain.
“O woman that I made so very fair”—
The passion of His voice chained me to
earth —-
“Why hast thou crouched so constantly
with care,
Bartered thy body for a meed of mirth?”
Answered I nought. “O God, my very God,
How I have sinned! My body is a pool,
White as sweet wine, where multitudes have
trod,
Sipping the cup and calling me poor fool.
And in the morning of a splendid day
Love came unnoticed through the moving
throng,
Mouthed like a rose with eyes of holy grey,
Chanting the burden of an old sweet song.
God, O my God! I heard him knock in
vain—
How could I listen to a strain so sweet?
Grief drowns my longings in a moaning rain,
Leaves me to sorrow and the open street!
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
A Hospital Tragedy.
She looked a snorter as she lay in bed,
Although her pretty lips and cheeks were
white;
Her little hand was pressed against her head ;
“Poor dear,” the nurse had sighed, “she
groaned all night.”
I saw her first inside the slicing room
While Dr. Kutem sharpened up his knife —
I wondered if she was another’s wife.
I visited her thence onward every day
(What’s that —professionally? Of course,
of course),
And took her heart-beats in the usual way,
And then inspected her dear tongue, by
force.
The more I saw of her the better pleased
Was I; but soon (ah me!) a day there
came....
She left! I didn’t even know her name.
And many more have occupied that bed!
Since she I speak and dream of- went
away;
And some I’ve seen made better, and some
dead,
Much blood has flown from art’ries since
that day,
But none can come up to my brown-eyed
maid,
And even though I know she felt much pain
I hope —l hope she’ll soon get sick again.
N.S.W.
THE SMITTEN STUDE.


AUSTRALIANS
rrm
mmm
W© ■ ft
The THREE RIBS of the Perdriau are superior to studs or projections of
he usual non-skid foreign tyre—these cause abnormal strain on the fabric
under them, whereas the Perdriau tyre, gripping the road with three broad flat
ribs, distributes the load evenly on the full surface of the tyre, thus reducing the
risk of tread separation, fabric trouble and skidding.
Perdriau Tyres are MADE IN AUSTRALIA by workmen well experienced in the severity of
comnlirt?*! 1 r ° ads .? n tyre ®‘ Careful inspection during the course of manufacture ensures the tyre beinsr
completed according to the strict Perdriau Standard. 6 lyre De ng
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne (122 Flinders Street),
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Newcastle •
J'*v
3SWKT,i
•"N,
o
mm*
mm.
m:
yi
r'
y*
o
y.
rs*
y
m
fd
RS
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
t° Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User . This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
'\u '
V
f?'
Notes from the Diary of a Fair
“Auto Tripper.”
We left home at 9 a.m. Sunday morning. Called a halt
at 11 a.m. for refreshments. Thermos flasks were
broyght out, and hot tea served with dainty sand-
wiches of
“REX” CAMP PIE
After a half-hour’s spell we made a move. Reached at 1
pPZir, Another stop for dinner. What a dinner it was! "Rex”
P l?. ye< l a P rom inent part, for our host had packed
ln the hamper a fine salad, which was served with the
P ? le - Everyone was satisfied, for "Rex” Camp Pie is a tastv
thfn t s S iafm 1 C n nCOC a 10n ? f , cl ?oicG meats, cooked and minced fine,
then seasoned and packed in a firm, clear jelly.
After dinner we had a few crackers spread with
gd
Rex Luncheon Cheese
We take a little after every meal to
aid our digestion. REX LUNCHEON
CHEESE digests quickly and is always
piquant and economical.
Gtocei for them. Be sure to get "REX” BRAND.
y of the following are good fare for all outings:
“Rex” Z? a v 2 nd Ton S' u « Pate.
~s®* Sausages, lib. tins.
«^ ex , Pork and Beans, lilb. tins
™25. I Hrs in llb ‘ prlntB *
R Sheep Tongues in Jelly, Hb. tins.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.,
Ourers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
Packers of "Rex” Pure Food Products.
B 2
IF. you realise how very important it is to drink only absolutely pure water you will
1 immediately buy an
“ABBOT” FILTER
of h H <A pb ot ” haS passed the sevei ' est bacteriological tests, and is approved by all Boards
FOUNTAIN FILTERS
in Glazed Stone or
Majolica
Water-bag,
Glass Portable
Pocket
FOUNTAIN.
PRESSURE FILTERS
to attach to Main
or Tank.
LARGE SERVICE FILTERS
for Butter Factories,
Cordial-makers, etc.
your store cannot supply you with an “Abbot” write to the Sole Manufacturers
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUSTABLE BUILDING,
350 George St., Sydney.
Dodge Brother
motor CAR
FOR HOLIDAY TRIPS.
COMFORT AND ECONOMY.
Comfort and economy contribute largely to the
pleasure of holiday trips.
When you ride in the Dodge Brothers Car you
will realise that it has all the responsiveness, com-
fort and power you desire.
It gets away instantaneously and runs silently
and smoothly without vibration at high speed.
The motor seems always to have more and still
more power when occasion requires.
Enthusiasm among owners is not occasional hut
general—the car is giving uniformly excellent
results in every city and district in which it is
being sold.
Daigety & Company Limited
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales & Queensland


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, ior Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 1925.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4, 1917.
Price 6d.
“GOTT STRAFE ENGLAND!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by Wilmam Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, ior The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every u eel: for' a
year, including Special Christmas Humber, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence'’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tiie Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
Tq. Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplrjing to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a -current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction- — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions . under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
a. plying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, ■News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home Neics Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egyft. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. »
Ceylon.— TJ 7 . G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
I’ai'ua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. IGoz.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bloz. to 10oz., Sid.:
lOoz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, J oz., Id., and Id. each
additional Soz.
ttfZeZ&n.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4, 1917.
CAN HUGHES SPEAK FOR
AUSTRALIA?
It is generally possible, even under the
Party System, for the head of a Government
to be regarded as at least nominally repre-
sentative of a majority of the people. But
this is not now the case in the Australian
Commonwealth. No sane person can imagine
that William Hughes as Prime Minister
represents to-day anything except an acci-
dent, Elaborate hair splitting about the con-
stitutional status of the Prime Minister,
about the significance of the recently-
expressed opinion of Parliament and all the
rest of it, amounts to nothing more than so
many efforts to give fiction precedence over
fact. For the moment, of course, the man’s
legal position is unimpeachable. The people
make politicians, and politicians, in turn,
make Ministries. By the luck of the game and
his own cunning, Hughes is thus where he
is. Under ordinary conditions the calamity
might be left to correct itself in the usual
way, or be straightened out by the electors
advancing on the ballot-box. But the condi-
tions are abnormal. At any time i.t would
be scandalous to have an unrepresentative
Government in office. At this period of
Australia’s history it is wicked. The
dangers inherent in such a position are now
magnified a hundred-fold. That the Hughes-
Pearce Administration would be on the box-
seat if the public could give expression to its
views is probably not believed by a single
member of the Federal Parliament. That
this is the Government Australia would have
if the Legislature were free to elect Ministers
of its own choice is a supposition too prepos-
terous for serious discussion. And serious
discussion of this Ministry and of the
prerogatives and duties of Parliament are
urgently needed. Every day’s postpone-
ment of this will be equivalent to trifling
with the nation’s future and a betrayal of
those democratic principles of which the
political mouth is accustomed to be so full.
A week or two ago the Federal Parliament
by a vote that was flagrantly dishonest—by
a vote that on both sides was cast with a
single consideration for party tactics and no
consideration for Australia—rejected a
motion of want of confidence in the Adminis-
tration. It was a vote -that meant nothing.
But Australia cannot be satisfied with a
travesty of her democracy such as this, nor
endure such an outrage upon popular gov-
ernment that a- vote to decide an amendment
of the income tax should determine issues of
vital concern to this Commonwealth.
Cook' and Irvine have called on the pub-
lic to realise the gravity of the hour. If
this talk is not shoddy, The Bulletin calls
upon them now to prove it with something
other than nebulosities. Is it within the
power of Cook or Irvine to produce in
simple language any justification for the
Federal Parliament leaving in the hands of
the Hughes Ministry the task of represent-
ing Australia —of speaking on behalf of Aus-
tralia, or making promises, or entering into
undertakings of any kind whatever, in the
name of this Commonwealth? Jf it is, they
should produce the argument. If it is not
possible, then they should explain how*
they can reconcile with duty to the
people the allegation that their busi-
ness is for the present to support the
Government. In this paper’s judgment the
paramount consideration should be the
authority of Parliament. It is sheer mad-
ness to suppose that the functions of the
Legislature are being discharged when
national affairs are left in the custody of an
unrepresentative Cabinet without appreci-
able following either in the Legislature or in
the country. The occasion is close at hand
when the views and feelings of Australia
will have to be with sobriety of
judgment—when the spokesman should re-
flect the opinions of a people instead of
parading his own personal notions. Are
there anv reasons why Parliament should
not be heard-from upon the great questions
of our national life? Are there any reasons
why the representation of Australia, instead
of resting on sound foundations, should be
dependent upon the hocus-pocus that oozes
from partisan organisations? This paper
knows of none. But it knows of a hundred
reasons why, because Australia is at war,
because the melting-pot is on the fire, and
because questions of incalculable importance
to the Commonw*ealth are taking shape in
the gloom and shadow, the Federal Parlia-
ment should be in session directing the
policy to be followed by the Ministry: and
there are as many good reasons why the
Government of Australia should at this time
be national in the very highest sense.
» * * *
The argument in favor of the Reps, and
Senate having a long holiday at this stage
was that members should have an oppor-
tunity to go on the stump after recruits.
The obvious answer is that there are other
people ready for that contract. The argu-
ment in favor of abandoning the holiday and
attending to business is that circumstances
have arisen that call for the opinion of
Parliament on a very material subject: and
it is imperative that negotiations of the
utmost importance on behalf of Australia
should not be conducted by a Government
which in no sense represents Australia.
A SCHEME FOR DRAWING THE
STING OF AVAR.
The persistence of human ideas through
long ages of chance and change is one of
those facts which must be taken account of
even when science is chortling her loudest
and up-to-date philosophy bows her acknow-
ledgment of the last round of applause. In
a remote corner of France the people still
worship the stones which were erected for
some sort of primitive religious observance
before the dawn of history. Those stones
were once red with the blood of sacrifice
to gods as rude as the primeval rocks; but
they continued to have power over the minds
of the succeeding race of civilised Celts in
spite of their elaborate pantheon of natural
and high-intentioned deities; and they still
have a superstitious hold on the newspaper-
reading Christian, who even presses the mod-
ern priests and his crucifix the pro-
cession around the monoliths which were
once a whole Pagan religious system in them-
selves. Ages ago church councils cursed
those stones, and cardinals excommunicated
them from the pale of decency; yet they
have lived down the curses, 'and superstition
works overtime around them to this day.
The fact is characteristic of human thought
and action. The world whirls on from
change to change, from horse-power to steam,
from steam to electricity, from electricity to
Heaven-knows-what; but a lot of things
come along with it, and are never wholly
cast aside. We still have crys.tal-gazers and
witchcraft and astrology applying their
fraudulent powers to the mystery of the Mel-
bourne Cup; we still have the ring-fetter on
the finger of the wife who "faces the Divorce
Court with a practised smile; and we still
have a strange faith in law as a cure for
social evils after 10,000 years have shown
that it is of no more value for the purpose
than turtle soup is of efficacy as a cure for
ringworm. Most persistent of all is the
amazing faith of mankind in war. Right
from the days when man wore a rudimentary
tail and grasped his prey with his hind foot
as well as his front one comes the belief that
if a lot of human creatures combine to inflict
all the punishment they can on a lot of other
human creatures some good must result. All
history shouts in about 450 different lan-
guages that it is a lie; but the world is as
deaf to that shout as it is blind to the fact
that cutting off its nose is a second-rate way
of being avenged on its face. War, stays
with us in spite of all our progress, and
Woodrow Wilson, even with Swiss assist-
ance, doesn’t seem to have discovered a likely
way to kill it.
* * * * *
Yet there is a very decent possibility that
war —at least the form of war that is loud
and bad-smelling and murderous—may be
brought to an end if it is tackled in the right
way. Most things have an Achilles heel of
some sort where the arrow of destruction will
bite even if fired by a person as futile and
soft-handed as Paris. If there is one thing
more remarkable than the persistence of old
ideas it is the utter oblivion into which old
forms and uses fall. Julian the Apostate,
big. clean man as he was, with an adminis-
trative ability worthy of his imperial job,
and a literary skill not often the possession
of a soldier of his size, could not restore the
old gods or get old Pagan talk a hearing.
Paganism was alive in spirit in the new
Christianity, but the world Had done with its
temples and altars for ever. "■ Similarly, in
the modern English courts, you couldn’t get
the ordeal by tire seriously considered. It
has gone out for good, though the element of
luck and chance, which was the essence of
the ordeal, remains in the temper of Judges
and the powers of endurance of juries. A
change of forms is not by any means an
easy matter to accomplish, but once it is
accomplished there is very little chance of
things ever taking the old shape again. The
liquor reformers of Scandinavia converted
Sweden and Norway from a universal drunk
on crude native spirits to a Softer and milder
sozzle on imported beer; blit they did not
shift the deeply-rooted northern desire for
soul-expansion through some sort of alcohol.
In tackling a problem like war the person
whose umbrella flutters ' with dove-like
enthusiasm and whose whiskers sprout in
olive-leaf designs should lay it down as a
basic principle that the war idea is per-
manent, but that the war forms may, by
strenuous effort, be permanently changed.
* * * *
The present war being the biggest in the
history of man offers a real chance of peace
to humanity—not an essential peace with the
element of war eliminated, but a practical
peace in which throat-cutting forms no part
of future controversy. To fight things out
must still be the last resort of angry nations.
But the way in which things are fought out
may-make all the difference. Wilson and
Switzerland, even with the assistance of the
other neutrals, are not likely to get results
by merely trying to call off the dogs as a
preliminary to rearranging the world. In
1914 the Teuton peoples stood forth armed
to the teeth and with murder in their eyes
yelling aloud to Heaven and earth and fate
for a licking suitable to the size of their
shameless treachery against mankind. Now,
with boots bloody and hands foul, they still
yell for the Same licking, and ale not by any
means satisfied with the foretaste of it they
have received. To stop such a war in mid
career is merely to keep things exactly as
they were. The peace possible to arrange at
such a time could only be a truce between
wars; and whether the truce was long or
short, the murder would start again in due
season. Promises to submit all things to
arbitration embodied in treaties would only
be so much waste paper, because arbitration
does not contain the essential principle of
war. The only hope for the world is the
invention of a form of war which, while it
can be waged to the point of exhaustion, will
get rid of the murder and destruction of
property which make present disturbances
horrible. To manage such an innoyation
would be difficult, but it should not .fee im-
possible. It should be within the bounds of
human ability to discover some gigantic
development of the game of bluff or poker,
on an international scale, by which all the
essential features of war- would be preserved
without its horror. Nations could stake
their wealth, their resources, their nopes,
their credit, their future on the skill and
bluff of Generals and diplomats just as they
do when the guns are roaring and the
stretcher-bearers toil with their loads of
pain. The whole •affair would be quite as
interesting, and the results quite as satisfac-
tory ; but the blood and smell and pain
would be largely cut out. Of course, there
would still be suffering. You couldn’t wage
conflicts of the sort without it; but the
whole thing would bear the exact relation-
ship to the cut-throat war we now know
that trial before an allegedly honest jury
does to the ancient ordeal by fire. As for
nations keeping faith about the things and
not cheating too flagrantly, that also could
probably be fixed up. Treaties are out of
date, but cash isn’t, and the nations might,
hand over to each other hostages of gold
coin and gilt-edged securities as guarantees
against foul play. There is room for the
big inventor to come along with a definite
scheme,; and as long as we remember that
war is war, and not croquet or ping-pong,
there is no real reason why the change of
form should not be permanent—that is, as
soon as the German has been thrashed into
brotherly kindness by the humanitarian
efforts of the Allies.
SYDNEY HARBOR SERVICES.
Some curses came home to roost in Sydney
last week; and Sydney did not lil?e them.
Successive increases have been made in the
cost of the season tickets issued by the co.
which has a monopoly of carrying people
across the harbor; and at the end of the
year, along with another rise in fares, came
a wholesale reduction in the services. By
half a dozen -State-owned train' and tram
routes people are poured down on to the
northern shore of the Harbor; and there the
Government leaves them to the tender mer-
cies of this monopoly. * When the Parlia-
mentary Labor party was young and uncor-
rupted it not only clearly saw its duty, but
was quite prepared to do it. Then the
party gradually cooled off. The northern
side of the Harbor sends very few Labor.men
to Parliament; find why, it asked, spend
money in carrying out the Labor platform
for the benefit of Liberals? So after five
years of Labor rule we still have the State
railways and tramways feeding this private
monopoly.
* * * *
For a while, when it looked as though the
Labor party would do something, there were
misgivings among investors; but when it was
made disgracefully clear that this monopoly
had less to fear from the Labor party'than
even from the Liberals, the share market,
with a cynical smile, recovered its confidence;
and there was a time when Sydney Ferries
shares were in such demand that the divi-
dend showed less than 2f per cent, on the
investment. The explanation was that the
co.. which had made a practice of hiding its
profits, was now in a position to frequently
water its stock—that is to say. to issue free
shares to the shareholders, paying for them
out. of the undivided profits. A couple of
years ago The Bulletin set out the his-
tory of the co. as follows: —
1893 — Old co. in existence; capital, £40,000.
1894 — Still the old co. ; capital watered to £60,000.
1899 —New co. formed; capital watered to £120,000.
1902—20,000 shares issued at par.
1906 — 20,000 free shares issued.
1907 — 40,000 shares at par.
1909 — Authorised capital increased from £200,000 to
£400,000.
1910— new shares issued ; 6s. per share paid
on them as a bonus ( £30,000 of water), and
4s. called up in cash.
1911— —-10 s. more called up on the last issue.
1912 — ‘lOO,OOO shares issued at par; ss. (£25,000)
called up.
1913 (.June) —Authorised capital further increased to
£BOO,OOO.
1913 (Dec.) —-£116,666 of reserves capitalised and
ss. per share ( £25,000) called up ori Shares
issued ih 1912.
In June, 1900, the eo. valued its assets at
£124,703. At the end of the year before the
war the total was £460,385. Thus the net
assets had increased by £335,682, of which
only £155,000 had come out of shareholders’
pockets. In other words, taking the vessels,
etc., as worth only book value, the public,
besides providing a dividend running from
10 to 15 per cent, per annum, had added more
to the funds of the co. than the shareholders
had done in 14 years. Now, of course,
because those rrofits have' been capitalised,
the public is expected to pay a dividend on
the money which it has itself provided; and
in order to maintain this dividend, while
meeting the increased' labor and other
charges, the directors have been steadily
pushing up fares and finding a limit there
have now begun cutting down services. The
whole business reflects very little credit on
anybody. It is a disgrace to the Labor
party, which, coming into power to national-
ise public utilities, not only failed to
nationalise this public utility, but continued
to spend large sums of money in feeding a
private monopoly. And it says little for the
intelligence of the Liberal party _ which
allowed itself to be bluffed out of doing_ its
duty to the _ people by the old cry against
“Socialistic interference with private enter-
prise,”
* * * *
Even now it is not too late to act. The
ferry services are not going to stay where
they are. There will be stock-waterings in
the future just as there have been in the
past; and even if the whole concern were
taken over at the present market value of
the shares, there would or should be some
immediate saving, because the State would
not require to extort 7 per cent, or more on
its investment. In any case, and whatever
should be the basis of purchase, it is certain
that this link between the State railway and
tramway systems on the two sides of the
Harbor should be taken out of private hands,
if for no_ other reason, then because the public
could kick with effect if anything went
wrong. Under present conditions the direc-
tors are under no obligation to consider any-
body but their masters, who are the handful
of shareholders.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“A Game Behind Closed Doors."
According to a London newspaper the invi-
tation extended to various Prime Ministers
to attend a conference in London will “exer-
cise a powerful influence on the imagination
of the oversea Dominions.” Massey, of
Maoriland, considers that the incident repre-
sents “a great, advance.” Joe Ward, of the
same place, who is running in double-harness
with Massey, announces that “we are
going to play a new game in Empire diplo-
macy and play it behind closed doors.” And
there is much tootling and footling about
the tremendous enthusiasm created by the
prospect of several mighty and
dominating personalities being summoned to
confer about something that is only vaguely
understood, and in any case, if all that has
gone before is not a dream, has already been
conferred about at great length. Now.
whatever ideas on the subject there may be
in London, it is only a fair thing to have
it understood there that all this banging of
the big drum and portentous talk about
Imperial responsibility is not at this end
of the world causing any joy, nor is it
likely to. The only advance that this coun-
try wants to see just now is an advance by
the allied armies. It js to assist in promot-
ing this that Australian troops are fighting.
If Maoriland is in the scrap for any other
purpose, no one has yet mentioned it. Cer-
tainly it has never been suggested that sol-
diers are going from here in order to create
conditions favorable to the invitation' of
wandering politicians to do something or
other behind closed doors. The people at
this end of the world are in the war be-
cause they were attacked, and their only
concern is to see the war won—to do the
best they can to help. If the operations at
the Front can be assisted by having more
conference, there is nothing to object to.
But it is not seriously alleged that this is
the case, and no one supposes that it is. The
whole business is, in the eyes of this country,
at any rate, surrounded with suspicion of
being an elaborate sham, the real design
being to drag the Dominions in an hour of
heat and passion closer to the net of an
organic Imperialism. It was said by
Hughes over and over again before he went
to London last year that the duty of Aus-
tralia in the war was to “do what we are
told.” _ To a great extent this has been the
governing idea in Maoriland, Canada and
South Africa. Criticism has been system-
atically throttled. In some respects it is a
penal offence. Under the stress of a great
war, discussion of the relationship between
Britain and the Dominions and colonies and
India has. been suspended. Is it to go on
now behind the backs of the people? Appar-
ently there are influences at work sufficiently
maniacal to encourage this back-door schem-
ing. It is a pity. The wash-up when the
war is over is going to be tremendous. It
would be much wiser, much more decent,
infinitely more patriotic, if efforts to win
the war engaged the undivided attention of
those men to whom the people look for
leadership. The war will have borne verv
evil fruit if it shall be found by the people
of this Commonwealth to have placed in any
Lou! a dagger to stab Australian nation-
alism.


The Red Tape that is Strangling Us.
A State Commandant recommended the
promotion of a junior assistant in the cleri-
cal branch of his Headquarters. The
anomalous position had a'risen that this
clerk, receiving £lO4 a year, was directing
the work of temporary clerks receiving £156
a year. The following is a precis of the
correspondence which thereupon passed
between State Headquarters and the Defence
Department, Melbourne :
June 12.—District Commandant recommends pro-
motion of junior assistant.
July 13. —District Commandant sends request for
reply to his communication.
July 17.—Secretary for Defence Department re-
fuses promotion on the ground that junior assistant
should pass through all intermediate grades.
July 24. —District Commandant again urges pro-
motion, pointing out that the official in question has
passed ail the necessary examinations to qualify for
proposed position, and that the work he is doing
should properly be done by higher-grade official.
August 17. —Reply from Adjutant-General’s office
to the effect that promotion is not considered neces-
sary, and suggesting that temporary assistance be
procured.
August 22.—District Commandant again urges
promotion. No other permanent clerk is available,
and it is impossible to procure efficient temporary
assistance. Suggests, failing approval of promotion,
that qualified permanent clerk be transferred from
another district.
August 28. Reply from Defence Department that
no permanent clerk is available for transfer.
September 14. —Junior assistant, whose proposed
promotion has caused all this correspondence, makes
personal application for promotion, pointing out
that he is qualified for promotion, and that clerk
in a similar position in another branch has been
promoted, though he failed to pass the necessary
examinations.
September 25.—Commandant writes to Defence
Department recommending junior assistant’s applica-
tion for promotion.
November 27. —Junior assistant asks for reply to
his application.
November 29.—Commandant writes to Defence
Department asking for reply to his recommendation.
December 3. —Commandant repeats request for
*^fccember 12. —Defence Department (letter signed
by i Brigadier-General this time) again refuses to
consider suggested promotion. Suggests that tem-
porary assistance be procured.
Two : cr three weeks ago this paper said
that, although men are so bitterly needed
at the Front, large numbers of apparently-fit
men are being kept in Australia at the
expense of the Defence Department. The
foregoing history of a case shows how they
are employed. Because a State Command-
ant has no authority to pay a clerk an extra
pound a week, though he has qualified by
examination for the rise and is supervising
the work of men who are getting more, the
whole lumbering machinery of the Depart-
ment goes on grinding out this absurd and
interminable correspondence. As a plain
matter of fact, the work of getting recruits
and preparing them for shipment to the
other side for training isn’t military work
at all. Half a dozen business men are
wanted for the job, which is one purely of
organisation. All the “military” we need
are a dozen or two sergeants. Instead, we
have an elaborate War Office which is wast-
ing hundreds of thousands of pounds because
it employs the wrong men to do things—
men who do things in the utterly discredited
“military” way when they clamor to be done
in a plain business way.
Billjim Spends a Bob.
The alarming attitude of Billjim on the
Somme, as shown by his devilish disregard
for the conventions on Christmas Day, has
caused Philip Gibbs, of the London Daily
Chronicle, to write home about it: —
The Australians and Maorilanders were observed
flinging money about in booths and market-places
upon trinkets ‘destined for a long sea voyage. These
fellows, wearing slouch hats, wandered into the best
restaurants in the region of the battlefields and
chose dishes without worrying about the price.
Here we have the blank amazement of the
average Briton that a common soldier should
have a penny to spend, or that he should
have any desire even at Christmas to get
something decent to eat, instead of thinking
himself lucky to half satisfy his hunger with
any old grub that might be filling. In the old
wars the soldier was mostly a miserable
beggar who went ragged and dirty until the
opportunity for plunder made him a million-
aire for a few minutes; and the tradition of
scarecrow heroes proud to salute their offi-
cers and remain hungry has remained as an
expected and natural feature of warfare.
If Australia has done something to break
down that tradition, the world owes a bit,
after all, to William. All up and down a.
thousand miles of trenches men are probably
asking why others can’t pay their soldiers
enough to buy a decent Christmas dinner
if Australia can ; and it will be asked with
more and more enthusiasm as time goes on.
The reply of the old military clique that
such high wages cannot be offered without
bringing the whole war industry to a stand-
still will be met with the laugh of derision.
For how patently monstrous it. is to tell
any man who is risking his life for his
country that it cannot afford to pay him a
decent wage at the very moment when it is
paying other men fine wages for staying at
home and risking nothing! How far-reach-
ing the consequences of this awakening may
be it is impossible to even guess. Certainly
one reason why wars have " been lightly
entered upon hitherto has been that the cost
to those who have not done the fighting has
been wretchedly small; often, indeed, war
has to them meant huge profits. We have
not yet wholly eliminated the profits; but
Australia has at any rate gone a good way
in the direction of assuring- to the fighter as
good a wage as, on the whole, he would get
if "he were a shirker. Now it remains to see
that the right people pay the bill. If it
falls on the right people, war is going to be
a - much less popular pastime than it was
when the class that did the fighting while
their families starved afterwards naid most
of the bill while their families went on
starving.
♦-
Can the P.L.L. Reform Itself?
While Octavian, Antony and Lepidus
schemed and bribed and fought for supre-
macy in the Roman world ancient
Senate talked and talked. When civil war
had raged through England, overturning
old and sacred things, beheading the theory
of the divine right of kings to govern wrong
in the person of Charles, and otherwise
manifesting to all who were not blind that
it was a season of change and action, the
Long Parliament still sat on and talked
until Cromwell ordered it out. The fact
that at the opening of the Inter-State Labor-
league conference there was not a single
Parliamentary representative from Victoria
and only one from N. S. Wales suggests that
history may be repeating itself, inasmuch as
Parliamentarians go on talking while the
P.L.L. smiles and prepares to smite them
to the dust. Unfortunately, however badly
the Parliamentarians have behaved, it
hasn’t yet- been shown that the P.L.L. or
the P.L.C. or whatever its name may be
is a democratic institution, founded on the
popular will and competent to perform the
Cromwellian service. Indeed it is a poor
thing as seen in its local groups. A
handful of people who subscribe a
small coin for the right of member-
ship gather in a remote corner and dis-
cuss political affairs in the name of tens
of thousands who are never consulted, and
who are seldom directly asked to join a
league. Anybody who could bring along a
hundred supporters, pay their subscriptions
and get them enrolled could sway the local
organisation to his will. Yet the aggregate
of these little hole-and-corner meetings
makes a power in the land which dictates
to * Parliaments and shapes the future of
Australia. As it thus stands, the P.L.L. is
a machine to defeat democracy ; and though
it has so far proved a very powerful machine
its weakness lies in the fact that at any
time it may be found out. Yet there is no
good reason why it should not reform itself
and broaden its own basis by making its
local leagues more representative. Hitherto
it has always been to the interests of the
Labor member for a district to keep the
League which selected him as a candidate
moribund between elections. If it awoke
to life in his absence it might easily de-
throne him in favor of another ; and this
attitude of the politician who has reached
Parliament has had a lot to do with the
hole-and-corner nature of the entire organi-
sation. Now that the Parliamentary person
has been mostly shot out, the chance for
better things seems to have come. The
widespread excommunications could well be
carried just a step farther. The Leagues
might all declare themselves bogus and start
afresh with the idea of bringing into the
fold the whole Labor intelligence of the
districts they represent. Then their voice
might be known as the voice of Labor and
not as the clamor of a few exploiters of a
slipshod system.
The Cost of Decorating Australian Feet.
As a general thing The Bulletin holds to
the opinion that Australians ought to be very
thankful just now to have any boots at all.
And it also thinks that there is a considerable
volume of disordered blither in circulation
about high prices. The- world has been
knocked endways, so to speak, by war,
and the price of nearly everything has
gone for a trip up. The same world
will probably be knocked upside down,
inside out and both ends together by
peace, and the prices of quite a lot of
things will fall with a dull thud, whereupon
there will be more moans of quite another
sort. Incidentally, the reason for giving
three cheers for dear coal and frequent groans
for dear boots is not altogether clear. Still,
that is no reason why people should have to
pay more for boots than represents a fair
thing in all the circumstances of the case.
To that extent the Federal Government is
justified in ordering an investigation of the
footwear business to find out if there are
any robbers about. But whether the Fed-
eral Government can do any good by try-
ing to fix the price of the finished boot is
another proposition. This paper does not
believe it can. Unless there is control of
production, supply and distribution, price-
fixing is futile. Had public enterprise
been given anything like a decent
chance in Australia, then, if the pub-
lic could not get a fair deal from private
manufacturers, State factories would turn
out reliable coverings for Australian feet.
That would be the sane, practical way of
doing something definite. But, even if the
boot trade is a thief, who can seriously advo-
cate State boot factories under the kind of
control everyone knows they would get?
How much time have alleged Labor leaders
devoted to consideration of this effective
method of market regulation and how much
have they wasted in gassing about means
that have been proved futile? Not that the
politician is wholly to blame. For if there
were State boot factories and shops the
probabilities are that they would be out on
strike five days a week. Until the com-
munity contracts horse-sense and gets down
to the bedrock of its problems and sees that
vague talk about Socialism is a wretchedly
poor substitute for work and brains, it can
expect nothing better than the piffling
devices of politicians in search of easy
methods of getting around difficulties.
The Army Remount Again.
“The Coper” : “Aneb’s” scornful remarks
on the remount question (B. 30/11/T6)
arouse my enthusiasm. After 25 years’ inti-
mate association with the horse in every
shape, from Cup winner to plough team, I
have come to the conclusion tha| the mili-
tary buyer is the curse of the horse-breeding
industry. He (or his principals) cannot
stick to one type of horse for two consecu-
tive months. Just 12 months ago I sold to
the military buyers low-set half-draught
horses for £25 a head. This year horses the
same size and up to two inches higher have
been rejected at a glance with the curt re-
mark “Too low.” Last sale (one of the big-
gest held in Australia) I took two trucks of
what I consider the best type of horse in the
world for ■ either farm or gun work. To
make up my number I threw in a cocky’s
generally-useful horse with a side bone. Re-''
suit: Side Bone topped the day’s sale to an
accredited military buyer, and the best price
for the rest was £13 —this for one of the best
active gun-leaders that I have had through
my hands for two years! A wise outsider
got him. How can the puzzled horse-breeder
keep pace with the market in these circum-
stances? From the time his mare is stinted
till the progeny is ready for the army five
years must elapse; and in that time the
jumpy Remount Department has probably
had 10 different heads, each with a different
idea of the type of horse required. An old
friend of mine, who has been in the game
for a generation, has turned it up this year,
giving as his reason that he "doesn’t know
what the fools want.” Why can’t the
Government fix a standard and stick to it?
— : »
Working the Ballot Box.
The prospect of having a couple of Federal
general elections in the near future, with
odd State elections in between, and possibly
a referendum or two in the immediate
vicinity, suggests that without any infringe-
ment .of the principle of the ballot some
easier and less disturbing method of ascer-
taining the people’s will must be found. The
cry frequently raised, on the alleged ground
of economy, that several elections or refer-
endum votes should be taken on the same
day, can hardly claim to be based on a
sound regard for the citizens’ interests. The
issues at each time of voting ought to be as
clear-cut as possible. If, as is asserted by
those who hold to the double-barrelled Par-
liamentary system, the Senate really has
functions which differ from those of the
House of Reps., then the selection of Sena-
tors is worth a bit of separate thought on
the part of electors. On this principle
Holman in N. S. Wales has just wisely
wrenched the local-option poll away from
the day on which the State Assembly is
chosen. On the other hand, there seems no
good reason why the whole continent should
be thrown into confusion because-a poll is
being taken. If the idea of making frequent
appeals to the people by referendum gets a
■firm hold, as it is likely to do, the voting
days would be far too numerous to be re-
garded as voting days are at present. The
country would have to vote in a simple and
orderly way at post offices or other perma-
nent polling-places. After all, the business
of recording a vote is a no more desperate
adventure than that of posting a letter, and
could be done with as little fuss. The Regis-
trar of Births, Deaths and Marriages with
the assistance of a local policeman could pro-
bably hold the lid on the ballot-box to the
satisfaction of the community; and the elec-
tors could vote as systematically and un-
ostentatiously as they milk their cows or
miss their trains.
Soldiers’ Comforts.
“Fax” : Whatever be the fate of patriotic
subscriptions in other Australian centres, it
seems certain that some of the funds handled
in Melbourne are supplying other wants
than they were meant for. Notably the
fund managed at the Town Hall. All the
goods issued from there were, and still are,
supposed to go to the boys on active service
abroad. Their destination ought to be the
trenches, and other fighting places where
a consignment of “comforts” comes as
practical consolation and a message of soli-
citude from home. Instead the fruits of the
fund are largely bestowed on soldiers in
Melbourne. Kits, more or less luxurious,
are packed for smart khakied applicants who
may or may not be going to the war and
who will be supplied with a kit by the
Defence Department if and when they do go.
In excuse for the management it is
stated that officers of the Defence
Department are responsible for many
“local” applications. Batches of sol-
diers are sent along to the Town Hall
with orders for the goods. Why: How
comes it that certain soldiers in camp are
privileged to draw upon the proceeds of a
patriotic fund whilst their neglected brother
Biixjims have to rest content with the
regulation allowance of necessities? The
scandal calls for public ventilation. Libel-
lous rumor asserts that there is a regular
system of sale or barter in Melbourne of
“comforts” which should be available only
to soldiers who are out of the country.
Another aspect of the Northern Territory:
The recent Houtman wharf-laborers’ strike at
Darwin was as queer a titbit as you could find
anywhere. Few nationalities are not represented in
Darwin. At Vesty’s works alone 20 are repre-
sented —Greek, Spanish, Russian, even Patagonian.
And Darwin was on this occasion held up because a
Dutch captain said, or was supposed to have said,
“Serve him right” when a Russian lumper fell
overboard. The majority of the other lumpers,
Greeks, at once decided to suspend work until the
skipper publicly abased himself and apologised. The
Dutchman, supported by his general manager, was
not going to apologise to “a lot of Dagoes.” He
had, he said, to consider how the people of Holland
would take it. The refusal resulted in the complete
cessation of work, paralysing the Territory’s busi-
ness. As the Dutchman remained obstinate a meet-
ing was called to arrange for a general strike. Ninety-
five per cent, of those present voted in favor of it,
although not 80 per cent, could understand what
was said. All preparations were at once put in
hand for a blow that was to shake everybody out
of the Territory.
Then came the thunderbolt: the next morning
disclosed the fact that the Dutchman had lifted his
anchor and gone, taking with him the long-awaited
food supplies for the inhabitants, the drugs for the
hospital, the cement for the Pine Creek line, and
(which meant the turning-off of many men from
work) the piles for the new part of the jetty,
delaying the workmen for another month. And,
worse than all, all the beer for the hotels. The
Chinese storekeepers, the friends of the Darwin
unionists and their consistent supporters, were the
chief sufferers, for they had run out of flour. Hun-
dreds of the unfortunate settlers away in the back
country, who are doing their best (if any are) to
help along the Territory, will now lack food because
the wet season has set in and transport is next to
impossible.
The foreigners in the Northern Territory are neithc r
a success nor a blessing, and as Steak-an-da-Oyst is
the most frequent and can dominate the Britishers
in a British settlement simply because he pays £1
a year to be a British unionist —not a British subject
—-there is going- to be some lively times, I am
thinking, if war is declared against our kind friend
King Tino. For Greeks are arriving by every boat,
and already there is a Greek quarter.
Old superstitions do die hard. The N. S.
Wales Congregational parsons have just
resolved that the Law should compel every
male candidate for marriage (why “candi-
date,” anyhow—is marriage a junior exam,
or a horse race?) to produce a medical cer-
tificate of his freedom from venereal disease.
Presumably the reason the female candidate
is exempted is that the rev. gentlemen don't
care to insult a lady by implying that she
may become disease-stricken. If that is the
reason, then one sees once more at work the
venerable superstition that syphilis is the
“wages of sin.” The much more dreadful
truth is that one doesn’t necessarily insult
a woman by asking her to prove herself free
from syphilis, any more than one does by
requesting her to produce evidence that she
isn’t consumptive. Either disease may arrive
by accident, quite unsuspected, and to
absolutely innocent persons; and thousands
more probably inherit it —maybe from per-
sons who have also innocently contracted it.
There.isn’t necessarily any more disgrace in
having syphilis than there is in catching
(say) typhoid or smallpox. The disgrace
arrives in concealing any of these diseases,
and so risking the passing of them on. When
the parsons are able to realise this, and
when they thump their pulpits violently
enough,- then the good work of reform will
really get ahead. Meanwhile it is encourag-
ing to see that at last some of them are
game to mention the beastly subject ip
public without blushing to the ends of their
whiskers.
The evidence given by engineer Thomas
Hill, of the Home Affairs Department, to
the Canberra Inquiry Commission, explains
why matters didn’t proceed satisfactorily in
one respect at least. He said that he had
exercised no control in the selection of arti-
sans. Union secretaries in Sydney and Mel-
bourne were asked to send workmen and did
so. Many of them naturally proved unsatis-
factory ; a few deliberately practised the “go
slow” ’ policy. It was a condition of then-
employment that they should be returned at
the expense of the Commonwealth, and in
some instances their fares came to more than
the money they earned. Altogether, what a
beautiful system! And why spoil it by
obtruding Thomas Hill? Why not frankly
abolish engineers and foremen, let the men
select themselves, supervise themselves, pay
themselves, use what stores and material
they think fit. and have a jolly and fat time
generally? If we openly avowed that policy
we should at least be more honest than we
are to-day.
The Coming of Peace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Peace wept within a quiet place alone,
Her ragged apron thrown about a face
That once a heedless world had lightly
known,
And, blind to all its perfect loveliness,
Cast on it foul aspersion and disgrace.
Earth deemed the wrongs that shrieked for
swift redress
Were of her working, that her robe unsoiled,
Whose dove-soft drapings moved like a
caress
And shimmered in the glory of the sun,
Was washed with tears of many hearts
despoiled.
A fearful purpose seemed to serge and run
Through lands and peoples. Wrath and
terror rose
And set the linstock to the waiting gun,
While Death with chattering jaws applauded
loud
And Valor perished, hissing at her foes.
Peace wept in silence; while the armies
proud
Made earth a reeking shambles far and wide.
And through the lightnings of the murder-
cloud
Tremendous agonies of pride and pain
Shook the pale nations as their bravest died.
Men dreamt of Peace in midnight tossings
vain,
Longing with passion for her touch and
smile,
Fearing her dead forever, while the rain
Of blood and tears soaked still the drinking
sod,
And shame linked taloned hands with force
and guile.
Then rose the harlot Talk with beck and
nod,
Draping white linen round her purple shame
To hide a thousand stains from earth and
god,
And loudly crying that her name was
Peace —•
Pure Peace returning free from scorn and
blame.
Red War gazed rudely on his beldam niece
And laughed to hear the rolling battle-call
Of his ten thousand cannon still increase.
“Ho! Ho!” he cried, “she acts so meekly
well
My sword shall drink until the curtain-fall.”
But, tortured wise and keen through yeans
of hell,
The peoples gazed upon the woman’s eyes
And knew her but too shrewdly and too
well —•
Her painted cheek, her garment’s snowy lie,
Murder’s last lure for dreader enterprise.
Then, with a shout that shook the angry
sky,
They rent her raiment from her where she
stood,
And pressed more wildly towards the flames
to die,
Or live that the true Peace might come
again.
And grim War trembled for his hardihood.
He trembled, shrank and failed. The bitter
rain
Of fire-urged steel made Horror fly afeared.
War died in agonies of larger pain.. . .
And Peace looked out upon the world and
saw
Her ancient standard o’er the ruin reared.
While Talk, the harlot, nursed a broken
jaw.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including, the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners}.
We are able to assure the supporters of •
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore. -
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviatio'n.
Agents for N.S.W. t
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
&. King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
$
w
3:
L&,
z 1
mm
fi#* v-$
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill .in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which ron
are interested and fall particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence a Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
Bayonets and Shells are still Trumps.
The yarns about the emptiness of the Ger-
man’s pantry may be right. Also, they may
be wrong. Being the kind of thing the
British people want to hear, the story of the
neutral “commissioner” loses nothing in
saleable value on the London market when
he reports that in every place he visited
the local Hun had long since parted with
his bingy and sacrificed the family poodle to
the Fatherland. Anyhow, if others are going
short of some things, the Allied armies are
not fighting against hungry troops. The
prisoners taken on the Somme are stated to
have been well nourished and warmly clad,
and the dugouts they inhabited heavily
stocked with reserves of grub. So long as
things are like this and the German army can
hold its end up, the kitchens at Hamburg
and Cologne are matters of little concern to
Britain. In any case, reference to the papers
of 18 months ago shows that the accommo-
dating neutral was even then keeping
London supplied with yarns suspiciously
like those of to-day. There were the same
old forecasts, too, about internal revolution.
These looked as poor then as they seem
now. Discontent is no doubt acute all over
Germany. The trials of the people must be
terrible. But revolution there, while the
German armies are in the field, fighting on
foreign soil, is as unlikely as the arrival
from Heaven of a few thousand fat bullocks
addressed to Von Hindenberg. Meanwhile
Notes are flying about in all directions.
Having repudiated the first effort of the Ger-
man to induce all hands to sit down and
talk about the blessings of peace, the Allies,
after telling him what they thought of
Kultur generally, are leaving the next move
to William. After further sparring for
wind, it is not improbable that something
definite may be produced. But that the
world will escape from its present hell with-
out more and terrible bloodshed is no better
assured than that Gabriel will tootle on his
trump to-morrow evening.
♦
D. E. Hutchins, whom the Westralian
Government brought from Africa a year or
two ago to advise about forestry, hands a
thistle to all the States, but particularly
N. S. Wales, Queensland and Tasmania, for
the Avay they have treated their timber
resources. The ignorance shown in N. S.
Wales he describes as appalling, and adds: —
What heightens the crime of misgovernment in
N. S. Wales is the loss of its unequalled softwoods.
Before long the State’s hideous waste of its forest
resources may be expected to be costing at the rate
of £BOOO per day. All this has been stated by the
Conservator of Forests in season and out of season.
But the Government heeds not, and each year gets
more deeply involved.
Of Queensland he observes: —
With the forests in their present state a forest
expenditure of only £7OOO per year stamps the
present forest policy of Queensland as simply dis-
astrous in its national sense.... The Queensland
Government of to-day is robbing the State of its
richest asset for a comparatively paltry temporary
gain. When these facts become generally known
Queensland must appear before the world in sorry
guise, its fair credit dragging in the mud.
Yet, though it would seem difficult to picture
anything worse than that, Hutchins
declares that Tasmania is a viler sinner
still. The Speck is an almost bankrupt
State, the most heavily taxed in Australia,
with a handful of inhabitants; yet it ought
to be rich and prosperous, working valuable
and easily-accessible timber, the Norway of
the South. Even in their present depreci-
ated condition the forests would, Hutchins
says, pay the national debt. We have heard
all that before, though. What we don’t so
often hear is how they are to be made to do
it.
“8.D.”: All those people who are demand-
ing the compulsory notification of venereal
disease seem to take it for granted that the
victim always knows just whe.n he is a vic-
tim and what his ailment is. But the
medical profession is finding out how little
really is known about it. Twenty per cent,
of the male inhabitants of the city, 75 per
cent, of the females, and close on 50 per cent,
of the men from the Lush, with a greater
number of women, would not recognise
syphilis or gonorrhoea if they saw it. The
most sophisticated, of course, are those who
run the risk of infection by patronising the
street fairies; but those who have inno-
cently acquired it are slow to believe it when
they spot the first symptoms, even if they
know them. Very few of the perverts who
indulge in solitary vice realise that they
can contract gonorrhoea that way, too.
W hat is wanted is a printed placard setting
out the forms of the disease, the first symp-
toms, all the ways in which it can £>e
acquired, and where to go for treatment. The
notifications could be placed in lavatories
and other exclusive haunts of men or
women, as is done successfully in California.
It is no good telling a man what book to
buy to read about it. You have to give
him the information first-hand to impress
upon him the necessity for early treatment.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cinema Star”
Criterion “The House of Glass”
Royal “On Our Selection”
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Dandies
White City Various Shows
Wirths’ Hippodrome .... “A Daughter of the Gods”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built”
Royal “The Woman”
King’s “The Accidental Honeymoon”
Princess’s “Richard III.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Hilda The Pink Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “W’here Are My Children?”
■
Sidney Criterion is happy once more.
“The House of Glass,” by Max Marein, pro-
duced there on Saturday night, is another of
the detective-criminal dramas that seem to
be the chief product of the U.S.A. It de-
serves to last no longer than any of the
others of the monotonous series. The first
act is merely the arrest of a young burglar
and the heroine’s discovery of his false pre-
tences just as she is -.on the point of
eloping with the cheerful young rotter. In
the second act we learn that she has been
convicted on circumstantial evidence of
being in leagpe with him. But the explana-
tion of this amazing development is kept a
secret from the audience till the last act;
and then it is quite an unsatisfactory explan-
ation. Instead of waiting till the man she
loved came out of gaol, the girl, released,
after a short term, on probation, and ordered
to report herself to the police every month,
clears to Kansas City and marries a young
man who subsequently rises to a position of
power. She realises she is safe as long as
she does not return to N’Yark, where the
cool, callous, sneering detective is implacably
waiting for her. But her husband accepts a
position of greater power in the home burg
of the detective of the steely glance. And
the long arm of the police captures her, now
the wife of a millionaire. The detective
turns out to be incorruptible; he cannot be
bribed ; he is not even the father of twins.
But the author, who has gone out of his
way, in the “curtain” of the first act, to
deceive the audience as to the detective’s
character, has to get his heroine out of her
trouble. He desperately calls in a dens ex
machina, who is ludicrously unconvincing;
and the heroine is freed. But the unsavory
moral is left that if she had been the wife
of a poor man she would have had no chance.
The conclusion spoils a poorly-constructed
melodrama.
Louis Kimball, as the burglar hero, is
admirably fitted for a part calling for subtle
acting and a big reserve of power. His sur-
“THE CINEMA STAR,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Lord Clarence Wentworth (Stanley
Odgers) and Little Glutterbuck (Phil
Smith).
face lightheartedness and his growing
burden of fear, in the first act, are admirably
suggested ; in the scene where he meets the
girl, now a society woman, he succeeds by
finished acting in hinting the emotion he is
unable to show; and his passionate declara-
tion in the final act is a brilliant and con-
vincing display of emotional force. Frank
Harvey, the husband, has little to do but sit
with clenched hands and brood over his
agony, except when he is the Napoleon of
Railroads and says “No !” with pitiless deter-
ruination. Of course, lie clenches and
answers in the negative admirably. Boyd
Irwin’s long record of detectivism is against
him; with the assistance of the dramatist
he succeeds in deceiving the audience up to
the last moment. Arthur Styan is reliable in
a minor part; and Robert Greig furnishes
the amazing spectacle of a good fairy. His
lighter pirouettings are more convincing
than his final noble pose. Maggie Knight
makes the sort of landlady that every boarder
vainly dreams of. Florence Rockwell proves
herself a capable liglit-comedy actress in the
first scene, where she charmingly suggests
the gaiety and happiness of the young girl in
love. But when the play wantonly turns to
melodrama, she uses all the conventional
tricks of the harassed heroine without any
sign of genuine emotional power behind
them. Her make-believe signally fails to
convince.
* * * *(.
Now that the Liquor Saving Bill has cut
off five hours of whisky, the best “peg” any-
one can legally have after 6 p.m. in Sydney
is the one at the Palace Theatre.
On Saturday night the Bert Bailey
players, at Sydney Royal, get back to “On
Our Selection” for 12 nights. “Mum Daw-
son, Boss,” the Sumner Locke play, follows.
“The Cinema Star” glitters prosperously
at Sydney Majesty’s, and the Royal Comics
have that settled look that comes over a co.
when the course is cleared for a long run.
The people of “The Passing Show” are
still gaily on the job at Sydney Tivoli. Syd-
ney James and Madeline Rossiter lead and
a wave of variegated talent pours along
behind. The interesting Belle Oliver is
somewhere near the crest of the wave.
Sydney films of note: —
Crystal Palace : “Her Father’s Son.” The adven-
tures of Bill Marion Edwards are trifling compared
with those of the boy-girl Vivian Martin, of Vir-
ginia. [On second thoughts, if Australian Bill
M.’s adventures were told and illustrated those of
the Yankee girl-hoy might look trifling and insig-
nificant. P.S. —To Showmen: No extra charge for
this hint.]
Lyceum : “The Beggar of Cawnpore.” An episode
of the Sepoy mutiny—which wasn’t much of a
mutiny, anyhow.
Hoyt’s: “The .Italian”; character-actor George
Beban as star.
At Melbourne Princess’s the out-and-out
Duke of Gloucester continues to butcher a
dethroned king to make a Christinas holiday.
Also he gives orders for his two nephews to
be killed and buried in the Tower, and he
provides his wife with a discreet family
physician who can be warranted to kill
within 15 days or thereabouts. Moreover,
lie is dimly understood to be responsible for
the assassination of brother Clarence, but
nobody bears witness to this fact except
the Duke’s ghost, who haunts him in his
sleep. The only melodramatic shortcoming
in Cibber’s version of “Richard III.” is in
the omission of Clarence and his Dream
speech, and the two murderers who decide
to drop him in the Malmsey butt and make
a sop of him. Otherwise it contains a bit
more than immortal Shakspeare intended.
Allan Wilkie’s production has some good
pictures in it. The first impressive scene of
Crosby Hall, with the young prince in the
chair in the foreground, is not more pic-
turesque than the next view of it, where
Richard has a tall seat in the background,
The exterior of the Tower and the interior
of the Royal Tent where the spooks come
and talk to wicked Wilkie are scenes that
hit the eye, and the tableau of the Battle
of Bosworth gets a double encore. But the
encores are managerial errors, in this jour-
nal’s opinion. The tableau should be one
fleeting spectacle and no more. A first
impression is enough. Afterwards the spec-
tutor gets used to the broad effect and pro-
ceeds to criticise the battle in detail and
count the casualties,
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the supply of “Dam-
aged Goods” will be suspended on Friday!
The bill for Saturday is “The Woman,” a
drama of American graft and other mat-
ters of topical interest. According to the
advt. a veil of mystery enshrouds the iden-
tity of the name character until she is rudely
divested thereof by the Climax.
“THE HOUSE OF GLASS,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Boyd Irwin and Carleton Stuart brow-
beating the noble-hearted thief.
“The House that Jack Built,” ajt Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, continues to be a necklace
of picturesque irrelevancies hanging on the
skeleton of a nursery rhyme. The panto. - has
the dash and inconsequence of previous hardy
annuals, and only recollects that it has a
plot when plump Fairy Industria or the
gaudy Demon of Misrule turns up to remind
Jack that he has a serious purpose in life.
As Jack’s job is to restore someone’s busted
fortune and wed the disguised royalty,
Gretehen Yates, he has plenty of chances to
figure as a revue time-killer in some of the
. featured interruptions. The interpolated
novelties this year seem as numerous as
before, and range in quality from the poetic
imaginativeness of Maggie Dickinson’s danc-
ing to the frank vaudeville belligerency of the
song about the Tanks; Some of the items
are knockabout turns of a moderately lively
description; a couple make pointed appeals
to the patriotism of the race ; and one by the
Rough but not Reckless Ritchie team is
merely a procession of weird bike shapes
apparently invented by an eccentric lunatic
suffering from an overdose of Euclid. But
those things are only secondary and unimpor-
tant beside the show’s greatest success—the
ocean of Girl that pours into the Tulip
Farm, glitters and whirls in the Ballet of
the Seasons, and finally bursts in a stream
of enchanting comeliness into the flag-
infested tableau of Empire. In its feminine
element “The House that Jack Built” might
well be likened to a luscious fruit-salad, with
peaches and plums as the prevailing ingre-
dients.
❖ sis * *
Fred Bluett, who has returned to Mel-
bourne Tivoli from England, has left some of
his voice and whimsicality behind him. His
warble is the ghost of what it was and his
humor is sickbed o’er with the stale past of
brighter _ Cockney comedians who have gone
before him. Two Yankee new arrivals, the
Flying Weavers, show the great Amurkan
Bite in a strange variation of the iron-
jawed act. The specialty has some pictu-
resque features, but mostly amounts to
monotonous rotation and shedding of gar-
ments whilst hanging by the teeth in mid-
air. The Follies are spread in reckless
profusion everywhere, and the management
continues to claim that there is not a dull
moment in the entertainment. Well, that's
the management’s business.
The Dandies remain a happy, untroubled
family at St. Kilda (Vic.). Pearlie McKen-
zie continues to advertise the harmless but
elevating sentiments of childhood, and Ealla
Wtu'd is showing her teeth in mushy ballads
“RICHARD III.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When York and Lancaster were names
Indicative of strife,
And skulls were cracked in tnerrie games,
And girls were “maids,” and wives were “dames”
Throughout their married life;
When belted earls shook flaxen curls
And sported silken hose,
And knights and lords wore gilt-hilt swords
To pink their caitiff foes,
And no one called his soul his own,
King Richard the Third sat on the throne.
A monarch’s might was might indeed
When Dickon did his dash,
To satisfy his royal greed
He’d often shed a traitor’s bleed,
Or settle someone’s hash ;
He’d win with guile a widow’s smile,
Whose husband he had slain,
Or curse and damn friend Buckingham
Who sued to him in vain.
A monarch reigned, and reigned alone,
And spoke in a commanding tone
When Richard the Third sat on the throne.
But oh, the tyrant’s time was brief:
He reaped what he did sow!
The world was not so full of grief,
So full of woe beyond belief
Four hundred years ago.
Those traitors then were titled men ;
Base barons fought and died;
No Kaiser’s roar could start a war
And drain his subjects of their gore
To gratify his pride.
Say, has the world much wiser grown
Since Richard the Third sat on the throne ?
VICTORIA.
O.K.


w
O'
0 o ORD&.S ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
1
DT
A
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney-
mm
Mitli
"S>£jftisky de Luxe
DANIEL CRIWEORDS
RED STAR
c*M
9
a
X
A “January” Suit.
Sultry weather may be expected during the next three months.
The “Aero-Crash" Suit meets requirements during such trying weather.
It is a cloth with ample “body,” but one of the coolest. Biscuit
shade—wears well —thoroughly shrunk. A “No-Veste” style with two
outside patch pockets, vent in back. Trousers have side pockets and
belt loops.
We Pay Postage.
Please state height, chesty waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPES CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
as before. Ida Newton and John Campbell
are still engaged on their comprehensive
history of ragtime, and Robert Agnew, billed
as an innocent tenor, is developing imper-
ceptibly into a light comedian. Incidentally
Joseph Brennan is pushing his discolored
make-up more frequently into the proceed-
ings, whilst Harry de Robeck has salvaged
several aspirates that went overboard
recently. Incidentally the smile of manager
“THE BUNYIP”
PANTOMIME, at
SYDNEY OPERA
HOUSE.
Daisy Merritt, a
female “Dame,”
and Villiers Arnold
as the boss gnome.
Brock is broadening visibly. All last week
the rising silver in the thermometer was
producing a similar phenomenon in the box-
office.
At Melbourne Auditorium a disappointed
husband is still putting the question “Where
Are My Children?” to a foolish, frivolous
wife who can only answer “Dunno.” The
silent message of the film continues to be
delivered four times daily, and the brief blue
patches, wherein the Pearly Gates open and
angels hover against a murky background of
eternity, add to the terrible solemnity of the
sermon. Simple people who view the pic-
ture are naturally much impressed by the
realistic visions of Heaven and the angels.
Apparently they accept the unearthly fea-
tures as a sort of guarantee that’the story
has been prepared with the approval, if not
the connivance, of Providence.
Hoyt’s latest screenings in Melbourne
include a Fox version of “Merely Mary
Ann,” with the much-paragraphed Vivian
Martin in the title role. Zangwill’s comedy
.has been carefully adapted for the camera,
but Vivian is not the girl for Mary. Her
trivial prettiness and turkey-lolly smile turn
the slavey into an automatic ingenue of the
Amurkan uppah classes. Another Hoyt
offering is a long Thomas Ince production
called “The Mating.” Bessie Barriscale, a
movie beauty formerly connected with the
Lasky firm, is a discreet ogler in this produc-
tion. At the Olympia Hoyt’s are also
showing up that villain Derrink in a preten-
tious study of thirst and shattered nerves
advertised as “The Power of Evil.”
* * * *
Touching “The White Slave Traffic,” at
Melbourne King’s, it is only necessary to
add that Miss Adrienne has arranged her
superabundant tresses in a becoming coiffure,
and that the strange mixture of lurid drama
and milk-and-water comedy will be with-
drawn this week. On Saturday the same
people will bid for yells of laughter with
“The Accidental Honeymoon,” which is to
hold the stage for a week ere Allen Doone
happens once again.
“Damaged Goods” is to be played in
Adelaide, probably at the Royal; and mur-
murs of the storm to follow can already be
heard in the newspapers. The public did
not rush “While the Billy Boils” at the
King’s, but is making up for lost time now.
Some of the same players appear in 'the
afternoons in “Seven Little Australians,” a
pleasant stage-version of (mostly) “Miss
Bobby.” Vera Pauli, clever and pretty, is
honestly too old now to look like a kid of
13, but a big score is made by Cecil Haines.
By the way, the item of cropping Bobby’s
locks needs to be stage-managed a bit, being
quite unconvincing at present. “The Power
and the Glory” at the Tivoli brings in a
Christmassy touch with a transformation
scene near the‘end. The Majestic includes
two good playlets, one by King and Miss
Thornton, one by the clever “Bunty” Scotch
lot. Beerbohm Tree is on the screen at
West’s, Wondergraph daringly promises a
“red-plague” drama, and the Town Hall is
now in the field with a striking film in
which America seeks to convince Australia
of the righteousness of lynching niggers.
From an Adelaide critic: —
Nelson Wood has had a quiet one-man show of
brush-work. It is a regular Curate’s Egg of an
exhibition, a couple of heads first-class, others quite
crude, a bit of tea-tree brilliant, a piece of strong
figure-work for an exhibition of manufactures, a good
crayon or two, and all these mingled with other
things nowhere near the same class. Mr. Wood has
done and is doing good work in support of the
Tourist Bureau’s campaign, for South Aus. has only
lately woke up to the number of beauty-spots it
might boom. And as a theatrical scene-painter he
might, given the chance, be well in the lead.
Private Hugh Alplionsus Leffler, accident-
ally killed on active service in France, was
a fine young Australian who heard the call
above the clatter of The Bulletin’s
machine-department. Tall, wiry and upright
as a cornstalk, Leffler had only tasted 24
years of sunshine and brightness when he
went under in the Great Cause.
“Mac”: Re par. in Bulletin 28/12/T6
respecting the alleged offer of a Richmond
River farmer to provide a returned soldier
with a job on a dairy farm at 10s. per week,
it may interest you to know that the advt.
was a fake —one of several attempted on the
Richmond by the Antis during the recent
Referendum campaign, but the only one to
get through. I understand the man men-
tioned in the ad. was a prominent conscrip-
tionist; and the enemy within, our gates got
home on him in this dirty fashion.
“Star” : Even death did not end the per-
secution of Cliidley. One departmental doc-
tor found it necessary to state at the
coroner’s inquest that syphilis was a contri-
butory cause, though strangely enough the
three other medicos did not mention the fact,
and one of them has stated that such a
diagnosis was rubbish. Naturally what the
one doctor said was set out in large type by
the daily press, which eagerly availed itself
of this chance of further vilifying the unfor-
tunate whose worst crime was that he
wouldn’t wear trousers.
“RICHARD III..” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Henri Dore (the
Lord Mayor).
Allan Wilkie as
Richard, contemplut-
ing more murders.
“Mujik” : Would it not be possible to send
Hughes to deal with Constantine, and let us
see what happens when Greek meets Shriek?
When the transport Itonus was sunk by a
submarine in the Mediterranean the Huns
made the master a prisoner and landed the
crew. If the skipper was the same as when
the vessel was last in Australian ports, then
his name is Colin McDonald, and he’s a well-
known seadog in these waters. The Germans
in their campaign to cripple the British mer-
chant service are holding all the shipmasters
they can lay their hands on, and if the
threatened under-water campaign is prose-
cuted in its promised frightfulness, there are
hundreds of sailormen over the regulation
age who will get a chance they have been
waiting for. It’s an ill torpedo that doesn t
blow somebody good.
“Green Chartreuse” : The corridor of the
Vic. Chief Secretary’s office in the closing
days of December resembled the passage from
the stage door of a theatre which is recruit-
ing for the chorus. It was crowded with
bright girls, slight girls, arch girls and jolly
girls, all anxious to register themselves as
barmaids under the new Licensing Act.
Three forms had to be filled in for each girl,
and the impressionable Chollies of the Civil
Service made it a labor of love. One dam-
sel poutingly claimed to be physically fault-
less —a ewe lamb without blemish —when
asked, purely for identification purposes, of
course, whether she had any slight moles
or birthmarks. Her word was taken for it.
Another young thing, the color of whose hair
was being logged, hinted that it might
change if fashion demanded it. Behold a
barmaid in whom there is no guile! It is
unseriously stated that there are 775 appli-
cations before the Repatriation Committee
from returned soldiers who are anxious to
get jobs as Inspectors of Barmaids or Comp-
trollers of Birthmarks.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: Tl\ere’s a line in “School for
Scandal” which always tickles the fancy of
yonng wives who have married something
elderly—“for the position.” When Sir Peter
Teazle asks whether a husband is not to
have influence and authority over his little
bit of fluff, his sprightly spouse replies:
“Authority ! No, to be sure! If you wanted
authority over me you should have adopted
me and not married me. I am sure you were
old enough.” The cynicism cuts both ways,
of course. Probably Ellen Terry was think-
ing of it when she spoke of her juvenile
third husband at a Melbourne tea-table. “I
was wrong in marrying that young man,”
said Ellen, with a humorous shake of the
head. “I ought to have adopted him.” Thus
the whirligig of Time brings in his revenges.
When Ellen Terry was the wayward young
bride of staid, middle-aged painter Watts,
she out-Teazled the heroine of Sheridan’s
comedy, and Watts soon regretted that lie
didn’t adopt the fascinating rebel instead of
marrying her.
George eiorgan, an Australian seaside-
show comedian of a while ago, has been
doing fairly well since he went to England,
lie got engagements as a handy man in
revues, and three months ago was booked
for juvenile lead in a co. which was about
to tour “The Private Secretary.” But
under Lloyd George’s new National Service
Act young man Morgan will probably have
to make himself useful off the stage.
“Mario” : Tempe Pigott, who introduced a
good many of Bernard Shaw’s amusing folk
to Australian audiences, and left last May
for New York, w r rites from Rochester, where
“Peg o’ My Heart” (with a Morosco co.)
is drawing like “East Lynne.” “Peg,” says
Miss Pigott, is fast taking the place of the
old weepy drama as the most reliable liouse-
filler in U.S.A. Miss Pigott plays the dis-
agreeable Mama.
“C. Ockney” : Although “Damaged Goods”
is vetoed, the works of Eugene Brieux have
had a fair show on the London stage. “La
Robe Rouge” has long been known, through
the translation of actor-manager Arthur
Bourchier, as “The Arm of the Law.”
Bourchier plays the part of the judge of
assize, and Violet Vanbrugh (Mrs. B.) the
character originally taken by Rejane. A ver-
sion of “La Femme Seule” was done by the
wife of Bernard Shaw and given the inelegant
title “Woman on her Own.” When staged
at a special performance at an outlying
metropolitan theatre the play justified its
title, there being hardly a man amongst the
audience. Another Barney—Fagin, to wit —
was responsible for the translation of “La
Foi” (“False Gods”), which Beerbohm Tree
put on at His Majesty’s. Tree mounted the
Egyptian piece sumptuously and cast it
with care, but the frost was severe and it
soon succumbed to the arctic conditions.
Clyde Cook, the dancing comedian who
deserves and gets such a big show in “The
Cinema Star,” had to go away and rattle
his feet in London for several years before
the J.C.W. people were aware of his worth.
Now behold him fresh from London dancing
on his native heath in a show imported from
the same place. Still Australia, thank
Heaven, can produce something. It at least
grows the J.C.W. audiences
“RICHARD III..” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Fred Kehoe as King
Henry.
Ye olde Britishe
warrior.
“Peter”: A feature of Sir Thomas
Beecham’s new opera season at London Ald-
wycli is the conducting of Aylmer Buesst, a
member of a Melbourne musical family.
Buesst, who is alleged to be the first Aus-
tralian to command an opera band in
London, has a brother, Victor, a charming
pianist, who is now fingering lint and ban-
dages in the R.A.M.C. in Egypt.
“De Oriel:’: At the Melbourne Bijou re-
cently a helpless comedian failed easily to
extract laughs and guffaws from the audi-
ence. Meanwhile a man in the dress-circle
box fell asleep. A stray rat, in full view
of the audience, but concealed from the
stage, climbed the proscenium and jumped
hastily upon the head of the slumberer, who
awoke suddenly and almost fell into the
stalls. The audience screamed and applauded
vociferously. The artist (who seemed taken
by surprise) bowed continuously, but the
rat didn’t return for an encore.
“Row A.” : Australia surely produces the
most patient theatre audiences in the world.
Accustomed to yell or hoot his displeasure
at outdoor sports, the Australian sits glumly
through a poor indoor show, applauding a
little now and then out of sheer charity.
Then he passes out silently to warn Ins
friends, and the deluded manager who
imagines that he has taken the bait nicely
and that he is in for a decent season finds
his neglected show dying on its legs. Theatre
audiences elsewhere rage and curse if they
are afflicted with the wrong goods, and “the
bird” is publicly awarded to the performers
who deserve it; the Australian endures in
stoic silence, and then damns it privately.
It is months since an outrageously inferior
show was “birded” in Sydney; but the
city has suffered a lot since without making
a sign. I went to a pretentious entertain-
ment the other night that put the breaking
strain on the house several times. The
heroes and heroines present made no moan
while the curtain was up—only denounced it
during the intervals. It seems to me that
this splendid reticence retards artistic pro-
gress. We get the good stuff in small doses
by accident; the bad stuff is fed to u» in
barrowloads.
“De O.” : German vaud-artists have sud-
denly become French or English. A Con-
tinental mimic, who used to be Hans but
is now Henri, after cleverly impersonating
various birds and beasts in Melbourne
lately, undertook to give the cry of any
animal named by the audience. “Give us
an imitation of the Kaiser,” demanded some-
body who knew. “Henri” immediately
puffed out his cheeks and with a “He haw!
He haw! He haw!” drew great applause.
But just wait till he gets home!
“H. 0.”: This year’s Williamson panto-
mime is a triumph for three Australians —
W. R. Coleman, Minnie Everett and Maggie
Dickinson. Coleman has surpassed himself
in the scenery. The setting of the Prince
Regent’s Garden in the second act is remi-
niscent of Kay Nielsen’s beautiful illustra-
tions of Quiller-Couch’s book of fairy
stories, “In Powder and Crinoline.” And
as Minnie Everett has arranged her
ballets to suit the scenes, rarely a garish
note is struck. With Maggie Dickinson’s
dancing added —and the young Australian
has never danced so well —there is more in
the present panto, to please the aesthetic eye
than in any similar production for years.
For the show’s merits Australians are re-
sponsible, while for its chief defects we can
thank four of the most tragic comedians who
have ever tried to turn the milk of human
kindness to gall. Be it added that these
views are not the result of misguided patri-
otism, but were conceived in a coldly critical
spirit engendered by years of suffering as a
hired theatrical tripe-taster.
Dear B., —A few remarks. (1) “J.F.11.”
(B. 7/12/’l6). I also saw Louise Pom-
meroy. It was about 1881. I was 17 and
“down from the bush.” I did not notice
the Yankee accent. I did not notice her
voice. But I did notice a large hole in her
black tights about —well, bearing north-east-
by-soutli three-quarters-west. (2) I saw
“Tom Brown’s Schooldays” lately. I also
took my son, aged 18. He was not edified.
Did they brew cocktails in those days at an
English public school? There is something
that smells of ’Murka about that film. (3)
“Harrison 0.,” re Oscar Asclie and
his Grundyisms. I and Mrs. “Nil” and Miss
“Nil” were gt a charity ball in Bunkumville
(S.A.) when Oscar and his co. came in
after the “Kismet” show. They brought
all the odalisques, and so on, in full fig
(-leaf). Some of the lucky ones danced
with them. I got no chance. —Yours, Nil.
“Melb”: “Hindle Wakes” might have
been suggested by Jones’s “Case of Rebel-
lious Susan.” Jones did not go so far, but
suggested that because hubby did as he
pleased Susie went away to Egypt and did
as she pleased. This, again, was drawn from
“Francillon.” The wife there remains
innocent; but because the husband goes
with another lady to a cabinet particulier,
the wife goes likewise with another gent.,
and of course takes the next crib to the hus-
band’s. Thereupon his morality is shocked,
and he convenes a family council. Dumas
was so pleased with Mrs. Potter’s acting
that he presented her with the English
rights of “Francillon.” Bellew’s friends
wanted him to deodorise it. “No!” said he.
So Australia saw an exact translation.
(Continued on page 26.)


EVERY WOMAN CONTROLS HER OWN BEAUTY.
EVERY WISE WOMAN KNOWS
J ohn grange
Poudre Marquise
A Delicate Face Powder in three tints— .
Blanche, Naturelle and Rachael. Price, 3/6
per box, is the most efficient.
Also Do Not Forget OUR NEW FACE CREAM.
(Blanche, 3/-, Naturelle, 3/6.)
LAKSHMI FACE CREAM AND LOTION.
(3/6 each.)
PAR EXCELLENCE—USED BY ROYALTY.
df
All obtainable from Drapers, Civil
AV. H. Soul and Co., etc., etc.
Service,
Awarded Six Gold Medals—London, Paris & Rome.
SEE DEMONSTRATION NOW AT ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Send 2d. stamp for Sample of Soap or Powder to JOHN STRANGE WINTER (London,
Paris and Rome). Sydney Office: 32 Depot, 26 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
N. S. Wales Full Court
registered two more marks
against the ancient Judge
Docker when on one recent
day it ordered two new trials.
One was for King and Fer-
guson, two of the men con-
victed for complicity in the
forging of Commonwealth
notes, and the appeal was
made on the ground of mis-
direction of the jury. The
other rehearing was in the
case of a man to whom
Docker had refused an
adjournment to secure the
attendance of a material wit-
ness. Of course the waste of
time and money doesn’t
matter. It’s merely part of
the price we pay for luxuries
like his honor.
Blaek-and-write brother Benson —George
Benson—writes from the land of trouble: —
Mud, my dear Iriend. Mud ! ’Tis not the end of
summer, yet I have already lost two pairs of boots
—sucked from my jfeet and lost forever in the ooze.
When we want to bury a “stiff” we cast him into a
space reserved, with his identification-disc on a cork
on a long string. When the dry weather comes they
just send out parties who put up a cross where they
find a disc. It is like being buried in a muddy lake
where a water-lily marks the place of interment.
* « * *
A Billzac who spent Christmas, 1915, in
the trenches records the visit of a friend :—-
Christmas Eve, and as cold as—some other place.
We were out in the first line, with nothing to do but
feel like frozen fish. Some of the English chaps
got talking of Christmas at Home and the time
they used to hang their stockings up. Jenkins,
from the North Country, and as simple and soft-
hearted as a kid, nearly blubbered over it. He
said he didn’t care —he was going to hang his
stocking up for Christmas. The boys took it as a
joke, until he got out his other pair of socks and
stood them up against the side of the trench. Next
morning—no Santa Claus! Jenkins seemed quite
cut up about it, and went to have another look in
his sock. Then Hell fell out of the sky. I never
saw a man disappear so completely off the earth.
Old Santa must have suddenly remembered he’d left
nothing for Jenkins. So he dropped Jenkins's present
fair into his sock —a bomb. I often wonder if
Jenkins caught up with Santa on the way aloft.
THE NEW RECRUITING CAMPAIGN.
“Marry me, marry me, darling, and save me.”
“R.C.8.” : The pride and joy of our crowd
is Bombardier Doleful, one of the most re-
sourceful nessimists alive. One day he was
sighted sitting in the door of our billet,
elbows on knees, gloomily nursing his jaws.
“Hullo! What’s un now —wife run away,
or what?” A low, watchdog growl came from
him. “No,” says he: “I was just thinking
what a cow it will be going home. A man
will be seasick all the blanky way!” That
was chalked up as his masterpiece till the
miserable day he was going up to the
trenches with an officer. The day before
Fritz had treated our post to a generous
share of high explosives and bombs, so as
thev were preparing to move off the officer
said cheerily: “Well, there’s one comfort.
Bombardier, if they do shell us to-day, I
know of a good 30ft. dugout.” But good old
Doleful had his answer ready. “Yes, and I
suppose a man’ll break his blanky neck
getting down it!”
* * * * *
“Reputed Pint” : “What shall he have who
killed the deer?” And what shall he have
who, under the provisions of the Act which
constituted the Vic. Licenses Reduction
Board, closed the Buck’s Head Hotel, Fitz-
roy’s historic pub? Removed in the middle
of last century to the corner of Napier and
Condell streets from further down the lat-
ter thoroughfare, the hotel was run for 25
years by Joe Snadden, who succeeded the
founder, J. Fogarty. It was here that a bul-
lock, Foasted whole, was distributed when
Edward VII. was married —in the olden,
golden days when he was still frankly
Tummy Wales. Here were the headquarters
of the stalwarts who brought W. M. K. Vale
up from Ballarat and ran the election which
sent him into the AssembV with a trium-
phant majority. Here of old were' polls
declared to rowdy mobs which cheered from
the cross-roads the speeches of successful
and defeated candidates. Joe Snadden, “the
Warwick of Fitzroy,” put into Parliament
Charles Jardine Don, the first working-man
to enter the Vic. Legislature. Don got a
gold watch and chain, afterwards inherited
by his son, who was brought from N. S.
AVales to receive the bequest from Snadden
as trustee. Don, senior, was a freethinker,
but in the end was converted to his earlier
faith by the Rev. R. Hamilton, who cele-
brated his exploit in a work entitled “The
Combat and the Victory.” In the Presby-
terian portion of Melbourne General Ceme-
ttery stands the monument with which his
Buck’s Head following perpetuated Don’s
memory. In an upstairs room of the pub
was painted the first Eight Hours banner
of the Moulders’ Union, and here, too, were
Hogmanay suppers held to introduce the
New Year in braw Scots style. Now the
glory has departed, and the license • perishes
at the Scriptural age of three score and ten.
“Trot” : The S. M. Herald put it this way
the other morning :
Australians are born and live in the sunshine, and
like butterflies justify their existence by exclaiming
that the day is theirs.
Of course. But the loud assertions made
by the Sydney butterflies are, after all, much
less confident than the conversation of the
mosquitoes at Brisbane. These creatures
appear to be utterly reckless. They insist
in the most arrogant tone that the night
belongs to them exclusively, and actually bite
anyone who contradicts. At one time the
cockatoos down the Riverina had the
audacity to openly claim their right to the
district, hut strangely enough their conver-
sational powers have diminished, and it
NOTHING TO GET WET ABOUT.
“Great Scott! You can’t go bathing in a
costume like that!”
“Certainly not, Daddy! I’m only going to
walk along the beach in it.”
seems only a matter of a few years when
the whole of the Australian fauna will cease
from gossiping in the old way. No doubt
the Herald has already detected that when
the dingoes capture a sheep outside the
office they divide the carcase in silence—
except for an occasional commentary on the
character of the meat. The likeness of the
Anzacs to butterflies, both in form and
speech, was one of the striking discoveries
of the last European summer.
EL MAGHARA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out east, on the sands of distraction, that dip to the
peep of the sun,
We waited the coming of action and sighed for the
sound of a gun.
Before we trekked over the waste in the night to
Maghara, and back,
We longed for the clatter of haste in the ruck of a
mounted attack.
We waited the dying of day with impatience and
simmering zeal,
We watched the red west make away with the sun,
and the sombre dusk steal,
All shadowy-slow and uncertain, to huddle the breeze-
bartered sands
In folds, like the folds of a curtain let loose from
invisible hands.
Like ghosts in the gloaming, ill-fated to march to
obscurity’s heart,
We sprang to the stirrup, and waited awhile in the
saddle the start.
A hush that was heavy and solemn grew tenser than
tightening fear,
And broke when the head of the column led off with
the murmuring rear.
Hearse-slow, as the mourners who follow a corpse to
the graveyard, we went
To gain from the depths of the hollow a point like
/ the peak of a tent.
The stars leapt ashine as we travelled wide-eyed in
the wilderness white ;
The moon swung aloft and unravelled a ribbon of
pad through the night.
Far over the wind-sharpened edges of razor-backed
- ridges that lift
Like pyramid summits and ledges, we surged through
the billow-like drift;
And discourse was strangely forbidden and hushed
by the laboring breath
Of animals never yet ridden so far in the silence of
death.
Like leaders a-tug at the traces, and hitched to a
floundering gun,
We clambered from hoof-hollowed places where
little sand rivulets run.
From gorges that muffled the task of each man and
his laboring beast,
We climbed ’neath the smothering mask of a mist
that came out of the east.
THE PALMS OF’EGYPT.
SHE : “Oh, and the witching scenery of the
East! I believe there are wonderful
palms in Egypt.”
HE: “Yes—mostly outstretched.”
We halted, unsaddled, and swiftly we hung on the
tibbin and corn;
Like corpses a-sprawl in the drift, we slept fast till
the glimmer of morn.
We lay in a wind-deepened hollow that gaped with a
seeming desire
To slowly envelop and swallow the force ere the east
leapt a-fire.
We hid till the vivid enamor of eve with its
crimson-lit wiles
Shed gold in the sweltering glamor, and mellowed
the sun-smitten miles ;
We lay till the camels were crawling all heavily
laden and dun
Out east, while the shadows were falling to smother
the vanishing sun.
In serpentine fashion out-stealing, the column
writhed hillward, to get
A glimpse of a low moon revealing high mountains
in stark silhouette,
When sudden there came without warning a mist,
like a scumbling pall,
That covered us as with an awning and hemmed us
around with a wall.
The sun pierced the mist with a glimmer of lances
down-thrust from the sky,
Ami burst in a soul-stirring shimmer that melted the
clouds floating high.
We climbed from the gloom of a bitter, grey waste
to a plateau of gold,
And gazed on its dazzling glitter like travel-worn
pilgrims of old.
We swept over gravel-strewn spaces, the hoofs
crunched the silence to flight,
And into white, haggard-worn faces there crept a
warm flush of delight;
We rode to the lilt of rude measure, when sudden
a view of the range
Fed hungering eyes, like a treasure in magical
regions and strange.
The horses swept forward ! The clatter of galloping
hoofs echoed strange,
Along with the opening chatter of maxim-guns find-
ing the range.
The rifles cracked fitful and ragged, the horses
tugged hard on the bit,
And sometimes an animal staggered, but seldom a
rider was hit.
We hurried for safety, for cover —tense-hearted, with
never a warp ;
And bullets strummed under and over like tautly-
drawn strings of a harp.
The Turks, in a wicked endeavor, were sniping with
purpose to stem
The tide of a race I shall never forget—the Anzacs
were swooping on them!
Distracted we travelled, worn wretches we crawled
through the fog-ridden night,
To burst on the green-dotted stretches in waves of
unbounded delight.
We leapt from a vision-dispelling grey waste to the
sunlight of God,
Which loses its charm in the telling and dies on
the grass-matted sod.
We felt the hard turf lying under, in one panting
gallop for life—•
Oh! all to the shattering thunder of guns in a spasm
of strife!
And high on the crag-sliadowgd ledges we hurriedly
covered the slain;
Then back over razor-like edges we trekked through
the desert again.
SINAI.
GERARDY.


gfd
the Boot you
should wear
for rough work,
The “Surveyor” Boot has been specially
designed to fill the need of men, especially in
the country, who feel the need of a hard-
wearing and at the same time comfortable
boot. Black chrome leather, tongues strongly
sewn in; double soles ; sprigged and finished,
with rope-stitched welts.
POST FREE TO YOU. 21/- PAIR.
PLEASE STATE SIZE.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED BRISBANE.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hbte luncheon 2/6
h la carte luncheon, from 1/®
Table d’hote dinner 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6.
Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
“Chasuble” : I daresay the pluckiest bit of
Australian churchbuilding, even among the
venturesome R.C.’s, has been Father Robin-
son’s Church of the Victories, at Camber-
well, Melbourne. He was unsuccessful in
various schemes, but hit the target with the
half-a-guinea-a-stone idea. The skeleton dome
has just been surmounted with a ton-weight
statue of the Virgin, pointing to Heaven. It
fs of wood, coppery gilt, the only thing for
which as yet Robinson has gone abroad.
Much honor to him for that!
A shudder comes from Ballarat (Vic.),
where an infant 10 months old became ill
and was supposed to be suffering from the
effects of teething. This diagnosis was par-
tially confirmed, but in consultation later
with, another doctor some kind of head
trouble was held to be the cause. In the end
the little sufferer died in great pain. While
the body was lying in the coffin someone
noticed a movement of one of the eyelids,
and on examination a centipede was dis-
covered. The supposition is that the insect
crawled into the ear while baby slept in
a perambulator under a tree, and then bur-
rowed its way into'the brain, finally emerg-
ing at the eye.
THEIR POINTS OF VIEW.
HE: “The cursed rain spoilt the races
entirely!”
SHE: “Oh, the races didn't matter —but look
what it did to my frock!”
“Mujik”: Someone sent a couple of tur-
keys to the Snickjoslyns, who live in our
street. One was duly slain for Christmas;
the other, provided with a crate, was held
over until a day to be named. Then Smck-
•joslyn made a reasonably good job ot the
post mortem, while reserving an adequate
part for himself. He was
just about to give the
benediction, when a wild
cackle and flutter in the
yard stampeded the fam-
ily. A stray dog trying
to sample turkey No. 2
had. liberated the animal
and was pursuing it over
the fence. Snickjoslyn.
grabbing a rake, and pur-
sued by mother and the
kids, dashed into the sub-
urban street to retrieve
the vanishing live stock.
It was the most frantic
chase seen thereabouts
since some of the Jones
children robbed the
Chow’s banana basket.
Down the road rushed
the Snickjoslyn battalion
pursued by the advice of
neighbors and all the
vagrant poodles in the
district. Ranting if not
exhausted, the valiant
Snickjoslyn recaptured his
bird by what was left;
of its tail in Smith’s
front garden, and bore
the poultry back. Then
they all trooped in to de-
molish the food that had
been left behind —and
found the cat had been
there in the meantime.
Whereupon Snickjoslyn
cursed all turkeys, seized
the beer, ordered an attack on some sardines
and fiercely demanded to know why his wife
had not remained at home to protect the
household from starvation.
From Billjim in a London hospital: —
It’s the age of specialising all right. England
even specialises in charity. There are ladies, young
and pretty, old and ugly, who come into the* ward
and, if they see a man with a couple of fingers miss-
ing or a bandage round his head, it is “Oh, I am
so sorry you’re wounded! Does it hurt much ?
Would you care to come out for a motor ride and
have tea at our house?” The wounded chap says
perhaps, “My wound is all right; I’m only wearing
that bandage to please the doctor” ; but the woman
goes on pouring out sympathy and invitations till
the poor beggar is forced to accept. Next bed,
perhaps, there’s an enteric, dead sick of hospital
and feeling like nothing on earth. “Where were you
wounded?” the lady asks. “Not wounded, miss,
enteric’s my trouble” “0000-hh!” says the sympa-
thiser with wounded men only, and on she goes
to the next bed. No drives or tea-parties for the
men lying there weeks and weeks, while we that
are fit and well, except for a bullet hole or two
or ‘ a scratch of a shell, are fairly smothered with
attention. It makes, me feel fair sick and ashamed.
* * * *
Apparently the idea still prevails in Tas-
mania that an epileptic is a criminal tor-
mented by evil spirits and a lunatic is a ba.d
man who ought to be punished for his
wickedness. There is a corpse at Queens-
town to certify to these things. The
man was taken to the hospital and
refused admission “on account of
his mental condition.” Then the
police took him, and after having
him in a cell for a day or two for-
mally charged him with the offence
of being ill, and, withdrawing the
accusation, had him sent about his
bus ness. His business just at this
period was to have epileptic
seizures ; and in one of them he fell
into shallow water and was suffo-
cated. Previously a' doctor had
ordered the patient’s removal to the
detention ward at the local hospi-
tal ; and the only excuse so far
offered is that lie was recognised as
a fit subject for treatment, and
therefore was turned away.
Whether anybody will be charged
with manslaughter over the busi-
ness is doubtful. Yet it seems desir-
able, even necessary, to do some-
thing of the sort.
* * *
“B.B.” : I reckon this to be one
of the most affecting incidents of
the war. At dusk one day when
the steamer Ruahine was about 150
miles from Pitcairn Island a three-
year-old child who had been left
unattended in a cabin clambered up
to and fell through the porthole.
From the deck above, a liome-com-
ing Wellington trooper, named K. A. Bayne,
saw the baby splash into the water
and leaped after it. Lighting buoys
were thrown to his aid and a boat
was sent away promptly, but neither child
nor soldier was seen again. Sharks, it was
reckoned.
“Copy Boy”: Regarding “crucifixion” (L».
21/12/’l6), about which so many contra-
dictory statements have been made, some
at least of the facts are plain enough. The
punishment is still used in the English
army, but not in the Australian, although
in the early days of the war it was in-
ACCORDING TO MERIT.
“Cripes, Bill, what they give you them
stripes for?”
“Not for being. a mug, anyhow .”
“Oh, I know that, Bill — you've only got
two.”
flicted on a man in the military camp at
Broadmeadows. If the business had been
persisted in ugly results would probably
have followed, and it is to the credit of
our officers that they had no stomach for
it —especially the late Major-Gen. Bridges,
to whom is largely due the practical elimina- -
tion of “field punishment No. 1” so far as
the Australian forces are concerned.
“C. Taylor”: Certainly “crucifixion” is
known in the Australian army. I’m positive
of it, because it has been my duty as an n.c.o.
of a guard while in Cairo to assist to strap a
gunner to the gun wheel. Also, two gun-
ners of my battery while at Anzac were
each sentenced to three days’ “field punish-
ment No. 1” (I think it is'termed), one
man for neglecting to obey an order and
the other for “refusing to obey an order and
insolence to an n.c.0.” That was only in
one section of an artillery brigade. I heard
of dozens of other instances in Egypt and
Gallipoli in other units—cases of men
strapped down to pegs driven in the ground.
If I remember rightly the conditions of the
punishment are that the prisoner must not
be strapped down more than three days out
of- four and not for more than two hours a
day.
“The Old Soldier” puts it this way:—
The Bulletin says that halt a dozen apparently-
competent witnesses write assurances that “cruci-
fixion” or spreadeagling is known to the Australian
army, as w.ell as to the British. I have not the
least doubt of it. At all times there has been a very
strong disposition among British commanding-officers
to inflict illegal and unusual punishments. When
the matter was brought up in the Commons the
War Office gave the usual sort of answer, i.e., that
practically all Generals agreed that “crucifixion”
could not be abolished: Sir Douglas Haig believed
that “its abolition would lead to an increase in the
death penalty.” The seniors said just the same
when the abolition of the “cat” was agitated for, 50
or 60 years ago. It is believed by the seniors of all
armies that- corporal punishment is necessary. It
is really only convenient. It saves trouble. But
whether it makes the discipline any better is a
question that no general officer is able to confidently
say. Before Sebastopol, in the winter of 1854-5,
when the British army was reduced to 12,000 men
fit for duty and could not find reliefs, soldiers were
often found asleep on their posts and their officers
simply would not bring them to a court-martial. I
was there and was one of them. The chief reason was
the bad effect the ensuing flogging would have on
steady men. As for General Haig’s statement that
the abolition of the new illegal form of corporal
punishment would mean the increased frequency of
the death-penalty, that is k mere guess. It would
be better to get rid of. all forms of corporal punish-
ment and ascertain the effect of that.
“Rio”: On page 223 of the 1914 edition
of the Field Service Focketbook the details
of Field Punishment (one time it was called
Field Imprisonment) are set out. Here they
are:—
Field Punishment.
Two Sorts. —No. 1 and No. 2.
No. 1. The offender may—-
(a) Be kept in irons.
(b) Be attached by straps, irons or ropes foi not
more than two hours in one day to a fixed
object in a fixed position. Must not be
attached for more than three out of tour con-
secutive days or for more than 21 days m all.
(c) Be made to labor as if he were undergoing
imprisonment with hard labor. ... , ,
No. 2. Same as No. 1, except he may not be treated
as above in (6).
The main points about it are: —
(1) It can only be inflicted for a crime com-
mitted “on active service.” . .
(2) The prisoner has to perform all other duties
besides his punishment.
(3) Punishment as in (b) above, t.e., Cruci-
fixion,” cannot be inflicted on the move; that is,
when the prisoner has been marching all day.
(4) Excepting as modified in (6) a court-martial
can inflict field punishment up to three months ; a
comanding-officer up to- 28 days.
(5) It was originally intended for infliction in
distant savage campaigns where prisons, etc., weie
scarce, but is sometimes given when the prisoner has
been trying to get into prison to escape service.
(6) It is usually imposed for crimes otherwise
punishable by death or penal servitude or for re-
peated drunkenness or bestial offences. .
(7) The usual way of carrying out (6) is by
tying the offender to a gun- or waggon-wheel.
In South Africa I saw “crucifixion” carried
out on both Tommies and Australians. One
N.S.W' Mounted Rifle, a splendid chap when
sober, was repeatedly drunk on trek and
became an utter nuisance to both his officers
and comrades. Had he been sent on for
‘court-martial he would have got several
years at least. His colonel at last gave him
seven days’ “Field Imprisonment No. 1,”
and for seven days he was tied to a gun-
wheel for two hours daily. He _was never
drunk again as long as I knew him. As to
whether “Field Punishment” is provided for
in the Australian Military Regulations, it
is not, directly. But there is a clause in
the Defence Act which says in effect that
for everything not mentioned or modified in
the Defence Act the provisions of the Army
Act are to be observed, which brings prac-
tically all active service matters under the
Imperial Act. Anyhow, as a matter of law,
is the Australian Defence Act in force out-
side the three-mile limit?
“Albatross”: The word “Blighty” (B.
2S/12./T6)is derived from the Indian “Bilati”
or “Bilaiti,” meaning “Home.” It has been
Atkinized into “Blighty,” and will go down
to posterity along with “Wipers” and other
classical names of the Great W ar.
THE COMPENSATIONS OF LIFE.
BROWN : “How d'you find the acoustic pro-
perties of Mrs. Bronson's new church?"
MRS. BRONSON'S HUSBAND: "Great! If you
sit well hack you can't hear a word of
the sermon."
“Jay-Jay”: While applauding “Murkah”
for his denunciation of the insanitary
(water-) drinking facilities provided for the
Australian railway traveller, I think the
pupils of the public schools are even worse
off. The traveller can get a clean drink if
he likes to wait and pay for it, but when the
penniless school kid“ wants a refresher he puts
his lips to the tap and sloboers up as much
as he can of the spouting water. A number
of youngsters in every school provide their
own drinking utensils, but the majority fol-
low the good old custom that poisoned our
uncles. My own Department of Education
solemnly instructs us teachers to disinfect
school pens and pencils, but allows the in-
valuable small Australian to drink like a
stray dog.
UNLEARNIN G.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each year when I inspect the stock
Of wisdom in my. store
(The knowledge bought at some expense
From gay or sad F.xperience
The maxims terse of modern note,
That mentally I often quote ;
Odd little bits of lore),
I always get a painful shock
On finding here and there a space
Where something was, and in its place
I put a notion newly-born
Which causes me to think with scorn
Of what I thought before.
Those empty spaces year by year
I mark with grave concern,
Old lessons as I older grew
Were set at naught by lessons new ; .
The little truths I treasured erst
Are now by greater truths disperst—
Gone, never to return.
And Wisdom whispers in my ear:
“Much knowledge that you dullards gain
Is brushed in ashes from your brain ;
The very thing you learn to-day
May be to-morrow —who shall say-?—■'
A thing you must unlearn!”
Ah, well! The truths! that pleased me best
Arc not yet proven lies ;
‘ Sweet lessons, deeply underlined,
Learned from the book of womankind,
Of tenderness and gratitude
Outlasting passion’s passing mood—
These do -I dearly prize.
. And fables which have stood the test
Of ages since good AUsop’s time ;
Old proverbs, writ in prose or rhyme—•
I am resolved to treasure these,
With Love’s fair seeming-verities
If wisdom must unlearn all things
Whereof the glamored poet sings,
’Twere folly to be wise.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


THE 1917 VARIATIONS.


LETTING THE DOVES LOOSE.
WILSON THE PEACEMAKER: “Dear, dear, I had no idea that doves could make themselves so disagreeable!"


SPLENDID REMEDY FOR
CHILDREN’S COUGHS.
Mothers all over Australia are making in
their own homes as good a remedy as money
can buy for Coughs, Colds, Whooping Cough
Croup, Influenza, Bronchitis and Sore
Throats. All they do is buy from their
chemist or store 2s. worth of Hean’s Essence,
and add to it water and sweetening matter
enough to make up to one pint. Such a
quantity of ready-made cough mixtures
would cost at least 12s. The beauty of the
Hean’s Essence mixture is that it contains
no paregoric, laudanum or other opium
drugs, which are apt to do untold harm to
young children. — Advt.
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd.
ELECTRIC CABLE FOR MINING
PURPOSES FOR SALE.
37/16 and 37/12 Double-armored,
Single-core Bitumen Cable, suitable
for 600 Volts D.C.
37/12 and 19/16 Single-armored,
Single-core Bitumen Cable, 600
Volts D.C.
For particulars apply to
THE HETTON COAL CO. LTD.,
56 Pitt Street, Sydney.
K'v
The
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
’clearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
/
|WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUNft?
gfd
LEWIS fewnlTTY MAKERS
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(alLBEY’S
PRY GIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKfeR & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
January birthdays: C. E. Owen Smyth
(S.A.), 66 on Ist; David Watterston, ex-
editor of Melbourne Argus, 72 on 2nd ; E.
W. Cole, the old King of the Book Arcades,
85 or thereabouts on 3rd; Fred W. Young,
S. Aus. Agent-General, 41, and Bishop New-
ton (Carpentaria), 51, on sth; Arthur
Searcy, chairman of S. Aus. Harbor Board,
65 on 6th; Minister for Defence G. F.
Pearce, 47 on the 14th ; A. FI. Peake, leader
of S. Aus. Liberal party, 58 on 15th; Dr.
Wollaston, ex-Comptroller-General of Fed-
eral Customs, 71 on 17th; Justice Barton,
68 on ISth; Ethel Turner, 45 on 24th; ex-
Premier C. G. Wade. 54 on 26th; Justice
Pring (N.S.W.), 64 on 29th.
The Christmas dinner to the Anzacs in
London was evidently a disappointment.
After it George Reid said :
I am full of gratitude to the country which
made me.
Pathetic evidence that either the food restric-
tions are too drastic or George is losing his
old form with the knife and fork.
HIS BIT.
MAGISTRATE : “Have you no desire to take a
non-combatant part in this greatest fight
of all?”
CONSCIENTIOUS PUG: “Well, I don’t mind,
actin' as a.referee.”
In the interests of economy Vie. Law De-
partment has decided that the remaining
County Court Judges shall divide between
them the work of Judge Box, who retires
very shortly, and that no successor to ’sonah
shall be appointed. As Virgil would put it:
“Box et prwterea nihil.”
December 28 was the 80th anniversary of
the foundation of South Aus., and was kept
in the usual way at Glenelg, where Governor
Hindmarsh —who had fought under Nelson
at Trafalgar, and was, like him, one-eyed-
landed from the Buffalo, and “proclaimed”
the infant province. Nearly 100 of arrival
or birth not later than 1840 were gathered
together by Mayor Alfred Roberts, and con-
gratulated by Premier and Governor. Among
them was James Chittleborough, a passenger
by the Buffalo, and Mrs. Mansell, by the
slightly-earlier Tam O’Shanter. Old Mrs.
Mantagani, who was in Australia a month
before Hindmarsh, and had reached the
mature age of 11 when the Proclamation took
place, was not present last week. She
declares that the bent gum to which Glenelg
pays honor is not, by about a hundred yards,
the real scene of the Proclamation; and she
cannot bring herself to assist in perpetuating
the error.
TO GIVE IT VARIETY.
MISTRESS: “What, Mcry, you want another
day off?”
MARY: “Yes, Miss, to see my brother away
to the war.”
MISTRESS : "Um, that’s the ninth! Don’t you
think, for a change, you’d better want to
see some of them return wounded?”
Passed out at Wellington (N.S.W.), John
Restall, in the 87th lap. Born in Surrey
(Eng.), Restall came to Australia in his
twenties and started as a baker in Grenfell,
also running a business at the Quandong dig-
gings. At his shop door in Quandong he
was shot by bushranger Ben Hall in the
course of a willing scrap due to Restall's
trying to out Hall with an iron oven-rake
when the ’ranger was commandeering the
contents of his till. He kept the bullet till
his death, and it was buried with him, as
the doctors had never succeeded in removing
it from his anatomy. In later years he ran
a bakery and a brewery in Wellington.
Sergeant Arthur Joyner, killed in action in
France, enlisted in the A.I.F. in the first
month of the war, and had worn khaki for
two years and four months without a spell
He was in the Gallipoli landing, and in the
intervals of potting Abdul secured pro-
bably the best lot of camera, snapshots yet
shown of that graveyard. After the evacua-
tion he was one of the first draft of Aus-
tralians to France, and at Pozieres was con-
gratulated in orders by General Cox for
“conspicuous gallantry and devotion to
duty.” Joyner came from Paddington
(N.S.W.).
Major Ernest Frederick Powys Sketchley,
of the Royal Marine Light Infantry, lately
killed bv a shell in the Flanders trenches,
aged 35, was gentleman help and secretary
to Gov. Bedford, of W.A., from ’O5 to ’OB.
Sketchley was one of the naval brigade in the
expeditions to Ostend and Antwerp in the
first months of the war, and later was a staff
officer of the naval division at Gallipoli,
where he won the D.S.O. and was twice men-
tioned in despatches. He was the only son
of an English country rector.
Charles Edward Pilcher, K.C., recently
dead, was born at Maitland in 1844, the son
of Henry Incledon Pilcher, a solicitor of the
’3o’s. He was first articled to J. P. Abbott,
but afterwards transferred to G. D. V.
Pilcher, his brother. Then he entered the
chambers of F. M-. Darley, afterwards Chief
Justice, to read for the Bar. Darley had
three pupils who all did well —C. E. Pilcher,
Jack Want and R. E. O’Connor: tutor and
pupils are now all dead. Pilcher married a
daughter of John McPhillamy, of Bathurst,
with whom he cot a dot of some magni-
tude. and that,'the big money he had made
at the Bar and his saving habits encouraged
him to take life lazily for many years past.
Robert Miller Laird, one of Australia s
oldest shipbuilders, cut his cable at nn-
liamstown the other day. He arrived in
Victoria from his native Paisley in the
Calliope in ’56, and thereafter helped to
make boats in many parts of the Common-
wealth. Thirty years ago he supervised the
building of the tug Advance and the dredge
Platypus for the Melbourne Harbor Trust;
and two years back he was still giving
orders at the Sydney naval dockyard. Be-
tween times he was —well, wherever the
rare ship was building in Australia. But
mostly it was a mere overhauling job.
Retired from N. S. Wales Public Service,
“Old” Banks, the veteran messenger of- the
N S. Wales State offices. It was in
February, 1867, that he started his. job in
the Lands Department, his Ministerial boss
being Bowie Wilson, father of the lawyer-
mining man who was the chief of the Intelli-
gence Department in N. S. Wales in the
early days of the war. After Wilson’s re-
tirement Banks saw 34 Ministers come and
go at the Lands Office.
Passed out suddenly at Grafton (N.S.W.)
one of the “sports” and popular men of the
Northern Rivers- —champion bowler, one-
time intercolonial rep. cricketer, good golfer
and billiard-player Joe Spencer. Partner
of Red Cross Commissioner E. G. Elworthy,
now in Egypt, he controlled stores in North
and South Grafton, and in his spare time
cheerfully won sweeps at the Club with so
much consistency that a “shilling-in” at
Grafton is “a Spencer.” He was 58 and had
indigestion and a crotchety heart.
From black-and-white artist Benson, who
is in France with the other good people:—
I've been lucky, so far —perhaps fate has a worse
end in store for me. One tiny splinter from Fritz,
but not enough to earn a piece of gold braid, is all
I claim at present, and is likely to be all for some
time, because I’ve “done me nerves.” To tell truth,
I can’t stand action for any sustained length of time
. now. I regret it, too. It’s the only part of the
game that’s worth while. I’ve been enjoying a spell
in a country village in France, and when asked,
“What did you do in the great war, Daddy?” I’ll
be able to say: “Sketches, my son ; I did sketches !”
“W.R.P.”: In Bulletin 30/11/T6 there
was an account of the death of Sergeant W.
Young, followed by the statement that he
fired Australia’s first shot in this war. As
one who was at Point Nepean when the Ger-
man vessel tried to run out and was fired
across, let me say that Young was not at
Point Nepean at the time, but arrived a
week or two later. Anyhow, no one person
fires the gun, but the individual who actu-
ally pressed the lever to make electric con-
tact when the other twelve had done their
bit is now in France with the Heavy Artil-
lery.
Tasmania’s latest Rhodes scholar is
Lieut. Alan Payne, now serving somewhere
in France. The son of a doctor, he won a
lot of prizes on the mathematical and science
side, and now squirts decimal points at
the enemy as boss of a machine-gun section.
Just about 21.
CHRISTMAS CUSTOMS AT BILLY-
GOAT FLAT.
The Annual Whitewash.
Francis Chapman, who died in London in
December, was a Brisbane business man 40-
odd years ago, and took a hand in the
liquidation of the J. and G. Harris firm m
the ’7o’s. Later, he was London manager
for McLean Bros. & Rigg, and about 25
years ago joined James Dickes and put up
signboards in London and Sydney as hard-
ware and machinery merchants. Sons will
keep up the old shingle at both ends.
Died at Wollstonecraft (N.S.W.), Robert
11. Harvey, who first came to Australia as
master of the Rockton for the old A.S.N.
Co. Harvey remained with the co. for some
years as skipper in the Queensland trade,
and then took charge of the Government
yacht Merrie England in Papuan waters.
For the past 12 years he had been a Torres
Strait pilot, and recently brought his last
ship, a Jap liner, through to Sydney.
The youngest Billzac? The kid was 16
when he shamed Perth’s cold-footed brigade
by parading in bor-
rowed breeches be-
fore, the local mili-
tary doctors. His
tale that he was 19
was accepted.
Fever smote the
precocious young-
ster "badly in
Pharaoh’s land,
and the attack
ended in a hospi-
tal-ship journey
home and his dis-
charge. But the
fighting spirit of
Rillzac junior soon
brought him into
the limelight. A
few days ago his
name was called in
the Children’s
Court. The charge
was “being an un-
controllable child.”
TOM MUTCH, of
the A.W.U. and
the WORKER, one
of the new leaders
of the N.S.W.
Labor movement.
A reinforcement recently embarked had
three officers. Their names were Swallow,
Green, Grapes.
Died at Bega (N.S.W.), William Rixon,
aged 72, who for over 40 years had been sell-
ing fat cattle twice a week. Rixon came of
an old South Coast pub-keeping and farming
family, and was related more or less to nearly
everyone between Moruya and the Vic. bor-
der. He was one of the founders of the loca 1
Jockey Club, and some years ago was about
the best-known racing man south of Sydney.
A family of 12 will help to keep the name
going.
Tasmania claims another centenarian:
Mrs. Machen, of King’s Meadows, has some
evidence that she was 100 on December 14.
She. has lived for 56 years in the same
house, and perhaps that accounts for it.
Cann, Labor member for Broken Hill,
who goes out of politics after a 25
years’ uninterrupted run, being given a
pension in the shape of a Railway Com-
missionership at £lOOO a year, has had
a record easy passage. In nine
general elections he has been opposed
only twice, and then only by also-
rans.
H. S. P. Sawyer, just appointed
headmaster of Shrewsbury, one of the
big English public schools, is the third
son of that Dr. Sawyer who was the
first to wear Anglican gaiters at
Grafton (N.S.W.). The see was
then known as “Grafton and Armi-
dale,” with a cathedral in each town —
an arrangement that lasted till two
years ago. Div Sawyer bished for
only a' few months, being drowned in
the Clarence River one Sunday night
in IS6S on his way home from church.
The son, who was then three years old,
has lived ever since in the Cold Coun-
try where he has been canon of Car-
lisle Cathedral and headmaster of St.
' Bees College, in Cumberland. His
predecessor at Shrewsbury has been
moved up to take charge of Eton Col-
lege, England’s toniest school, whose
late headmaster’s appeal not to humiliate
Germany lead to strong hints that he had
better resign. .
Lance-corporal Clarence Page, of the
A.1.F., killed in action at Pozieres, had just
got his B.A. degree at Sydney Uni. when
Bill broke into Belgium. Page was starting
a course of training for the Scotchbyterian
ministry, but he dropped his books to enlist,
and went with the first Australian troops to
Egypt. ■ He was in the landing at Gallipoli,
and saw the whole job through till the evacu-
ation, being thrice mentioned in despatches
and once recommended for the D.C.M. Going
to France, lie was first reported wounded,
then missing and finally killed. An elder
brother was killed in Gallipoli, and a second
is now being patched up in an English hos-
pital after an argument with a German shell
in France. The family hails from Tamworth
(N.S.W ).
THE PARTITION OF FRANZ JOSEF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Franz Josef's heart will be deposited in St. Augus-
tine’s Church. His intestines will be deposited in
the crypt of St. Stephen’s Cathedral, and the corpse
will be buried in the vaults of the Capuchin Church.
Concerning Madame Katherine Schratt, to whom
the Emperor is reported to have left the sum of
£15,000, etc.— Cables.
They’ve chopped up his carcase, and handed bits
round
As chaste souvenirs for the churches,
Where faithful reports of his virtues resound
From a thousand parsonical perches.
They’ve pickled his body, and bottled his heart,
And canned his imperial giblets;
They’ve cut up his savings, each pal gets a part,
In liberal helpings or driblets.
They’ve even rewarded his feminine “friend,”
That fondest of footlighty friskers ;
Cut up all his life, and carved up at the end—
But what have they done with his whiskers?
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


IHraHßKii
Jt ■ I i -
i
■ ■ iifiti*
piiapHte^ii
V I*
H
■
11
111
m
mm
m
ill
■
n
:: fl
..
mm
. ii ~
ma
mmm
: :
1&3
■
n*
till
lili 1
S
mm
■
r -*
1
m
i
>IPS
hi
1
M
wa
m
%
m
■■■ ■ - : "
IB
BHHi
m
u
mm
t-
M
m
-f .
■
BH
»
lit
m
Wmmm
Kifil
■
m
u■ ■ ■
M
m
' 1 I I .
Si I MmSSK* ; I
ml
mm
Hi
V '
■M
. *
m
m
■
ifc. \ : Si
..
H
SwBlBlBM!
H?-
■
r. ■
iH*
iHi
| j | |f|||T | Pli|ll|;|l i l^ | |j
liiiil
■ §§||i 1
.
; .
.
wassmm
immm
Hi
: :
1
4b.
%
%
'•TTtj
■vQ
er v^,
P&Bols '°r
I wear
' r
./r
ym
484 io 490 GEORGE 5T
3 fo 17 ROYAL ARCAPE
INDIVIDUALITY is the Supreme
Characteristic of High-Class Tailoring,
and in an “Austral” Sac Suit to measure the indi-
vidual personality of the wearer is expressed naturally
and faithfully and with a due and proper re'gard for his preferences as to style.
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
GOWING BROS. LTD.,
New Branch Store, 304 George Street (near Hunter Street).
S
m
Wfflß
■» * m*
■» HS H jt
m
mm*3'
I r^iC
wat
484 to 490 GEORGE 5T
3io 17 ROYAL ARCAPE


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The Australian Provincial Assurance Ass’n
382 George Street, SYDNEY. Limited
Transacts Life, Endowment, Personal and General Accident Business.
Life Assurance Policies contain Disability and Hospital Benefit Clauses.
Reliable and Capable Travelling and Local Agents required throughout the Commcnwealth.
S. P. WOOD, Managing Director.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank
Net Profits on
Busi- Repurchase
ness of Old Written Re-
Profits. Deposits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ a. .a
1904.. 45,585 1273 4 p.c.= 21,578 - - 203,403
1905.. 48,348 1527 41 „ ~21,578 85,991 L 45.709
1906.. 48,667 1797 44 „ ~24,275 8,990 162,908
1907.. 58,324 659 5 „ ~26,972 8,750 186,169
1908.. 61,754 599 5 „ ,',26,972 19,590 201,990
1909.. 62,194 937 6 ~ ~32,366 9,928 222,827
1910.. 71,878 1211 6 „ ~32.366 22,000 241,550
1911.. 76,180 711 7 „ ~37,761 21,500 259,180
19 L 2. . 93,381 1413 8 „ ~43,155 14,000 296,819
1913. .107,694 1315 8 ~,,43.155 15,700 346,973
1914. .118,036 1315 8 ~,, 43,155 15,700 407,469
1915.. 97,685 2215 8 „ ~43,155 16,600 447,614
1916. .108,196 2615 8 „ ~43,155 17,000 498,270
It is in some ways a disadvantage and a han-
dicap for this hank to carry on every balance-
sheet a reminder that it was once in diffi-
cnlties. There are other banks, no more
thoroughly sound than this one, whose simi-
lar difficulties nine-tenths of the people ha.ve
forgotten all about. Perhaps, when the world
settles down again, it may be desirable to
make a rearrangement by which the traces of
the old trouble will be removed. Under the
old arrangement one-fourth of the profits,
after various payments have been made, must
be applied to the repurchase of certain de-
ferred stock, which was issued in lieu of part
of the old deposits. This deferred stock
carries 3 p.c., with an extra IT p.c. when
profits permit; and the full 44 p.c. has been
paid for very many years. At the end of
1915 £14,385 was the amount of the residual
one-fourth of profits before-mentioned, and
with that money £17,000 worth of the de-
ferred stock was .repurchased, and then can-
celled. Hence the £2615 of profit shown in
the last line of the table and the £17,000
written off. This year another £14,385 is
available; and, as money is dear now, pro-
bably that will purchase £17,500 or more of
stock. These purchases have exactly the
same effect as if the-profit was put to reserve.
Actually, since £17.000 disappears from the
liabilities, it is necessary to write down
something on the other side by an equal
amount. Hence the premises account is being
gradually reduced ; and as they still stand at
£269,256, or just half the share capital, they
can stand reduction very well. But later on,
if the assets are found to be well worth their
book value, with a bit over, the bank would
certainly gain more by using these written-
off thousands to build up its visible reserves.
Of course that would require an alteration in
the articles of association.
The bank’s old deposits were represented
on reconstruction by four lots of paper ; and
this is what lias happened to them in 20
years:—
1896. 1910. 1915. 1916.
Debenture
stock ..£983,547 £983,547 £983,547 £983,547
Terminable
receipts 891,454 Nil Nil Nil
Prei. insc.
stock . . 889,419 889,419 889,419 889,419
Deferred
stock . . 808,758 759,500 686,000 669,000
£3,573,178 £2,632,466 £2,558,966 £2,541,966
The three classes of stock now in existence
are interminable, except for the provision re-
lating to the purchase of the deferred stock
already mentioned; hence this money is as
firmly fixed in the business as if it were
share capital. The debenture and pref. stock
carry 4 p.c.; the other 44 p.c. Especially at
a time like this it is all cheap money ; and as
the surplus earnings belong to the sharehold-
ers (with the reservations already referred
tot they are likelv to have a very good time
It isn’t every bank that has two and a
quarter millions of 4 and 44 p.c. pref. capital.
It certainly couldn’t be got to-day.
On the other hand, it has to be remembered
that the real share capital has to guarantee
the whole of this stock capital; but that is a
risk which gradually diminishes as the re-
serves grow, because the reserves guarantee
the share capital. These reserves are now so
aor v substantial that, though dear money
generally means abnormal risks for invest-
ments. it is probably true that no other body
of Australian bank shareholders are likely to
do so well out of a period of dear money.
Besides its perpetual stock the E. S- and A.
owes £8,292,467 to depositors and other
creditors; and as that is equal to only
£2 7s (id. for every £1 of the bank’s own
funds (including perpetual stock), the credi-
tors are exceedingly well protected. But here
is the whole posi tion
Liabilities. .
1914. 1915. 1916.
Notes .. .. £2,756 £2,052 £1,873
Bills, etc 549,546 532,445 625,107
Old debt . ; . . 2,575,566 2,558,966 2,541,966
Deposits at interest 3,816,818 3,734,851 4,170,605
Free deposits . . 3,041,110 3,323,946 3,494,882
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 4,206,486 4,799,250 4,381,460
Premises. . . . 300,029 284,953 269,256
Advances.. .. 6,452,765 6,079,186 7,243;002
Of all deposits and other withdrawable
money with the bank more than one-half is
held liquid; and there is enough nondiquid to
pay the balance just about twice over. Thus
creditors can afford to sleep quite comfort-
ably.
The National Insurance Company of
New Zealand :—-
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1904.. 38,414 15 p.c.= 16,000 23,414 199,160
1905.. 26,009 15 ~,, 15,000 552 10,457 209,617
1906.. 43,626 15 „ ~15,000 28,626 238,243
1907.. 26.096 15 ~,,15,000 11,096 249,339
1908. 15 ~,,15,000 15,591 264,930
1909. 15 „ ~15,000 3234 15,432 280,362
1910.. 40,036 174 „ „ 17,500 22,.536 302,898
1911.. 38.390 20 „ ~20,000 18,390 321,288
1912.. 43,412 25 „ ~25,000 18,412 339,700
• 1913. . 52,209 25 ~ ~25,000 27,209 366,909
1914.. 35,664 25 ~,,25,04)0 10,664 377.573
1915.. 42.347 25 „ ~25,04)0 17,34 7 3 9 4',920
1916.. 48,511 25 „ ~25,000 23,511 418,431
The co. pays 25 p.c.; but, then, it hasn’t
capitalised profits like most other Austral-
asian insurance offices have done. Except
that a few shares were sold a long while
ago to bring the figures to the even £lOO,OOO,
the capital stands today exactly where it
stood 30 years ago. But the capital is about
the only thing that has stood stationary. In
just over 20 years the net premium income
has doubled ; arid the reserves have doubled
in 12 years. But the voyage hasn’t been all
so rapid. • The c-o. was born in 1873, and
by the end of 1885 it had £193,314 of re-
serves. Fifteen years later it had only
£128,815. All the surplus profits made out
of the business during that long, weary
period, and nearly £70,000 besides, went to
write off losses made through bad invest-
ments in the years when heavy loan expendi-
ture was giving a fictitious value to Maori-
land estate.
It is a good thing at a time like the pre-,
sent to recall what happened in those -days.
In 1882 this co. thought it was doing a very
safe thing when it lent £BOOO on a South-
hind property which had been valued by the
usual expert at £15,400. The interest was
paid punctually for years ; then the bottom
fell out of Maoriland values, and in 1890 the
security was written down to £2OOO, and it
was thought that that much could be got for
it with patience. What happened after-
wards in that instance this writer doesn’t
know. Maybe something was recovered on
that account subsequently. At anv rate,
during the last 15 years at least it is pretty
certain that practically none of the current
profit has had to go down the sink. Values
have been generally on the up-grade; and
nobody has been throwing in his mortgage.
But how Maoriland is going to fare in the
near future depends mostly upon what lamb
and mutton will brine- after the war. What
a knock-out can amount to the foregoing-
figures show.
This is the only feature of the National
that The Bulletin can’t feel sure about.
Of its total assets of £555,321 no less than
£343,640 is out on mortgage and £83,007 is
in that vague security described merely as
“debentures.” However, so splendid a pro-
portion of the earnings has consistently been
put aside that this feature need not give the
policy-holders any concern. First, take these
figures :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32.0 p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 99,950 53.8 „ 29.4 ~
1905.. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54.8 „ 33.8 ~
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47.8 „ 34.9 „
1913.. 151,454 66,345 53,168 43.7 „ 35.1 „
1914.. 148,242 78,496 55,709 52.9 „ 37.5 „
1915.. 153,598 78,262 55,934 50.9 „ 36.4 ~
1916.. 161,932 79,333 59,052 49.0 „ 36.5 „
The losses in the past five years have aver-
aged under £'<s,ooo a year. The present net
assets are £520,000. Add £lOO,OOO for income
in excess of exes, during the current year,
and it will be seen that before September,
1917, the co. could pay 84 times its average
losses —assuming, of course, that it could
realise its assets at book value. If through
some dreadful catastrophe it could get only
half of their book value for the non-liquid
assets, it could in the coming year have
five times worse luck than usual and still
come up smiling. And the position goes on
improving: in the past year, for instance, in-
terest and rents brought in £24,879. which
was practically the full amount of the divi-
dend. leaving the whole of the fine under-
writing profit to go towards the further
strengthening of reserves.
The Newcastle Building and Invest-
ment Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.) :
Written Oil
(including
Losses ' To
on Reali- Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends, sation). serves, serves.
1904 . . £5765 6 p.c. = £5033 £209 £523 £52,092
1905.. 5250 6 „ „ 5033 90 127 52,219
1906.. 5539 6 ~ „ 5033 266 240 52,459
1907.. 5453 6 „ ~ 5033 924 51,955
1908.. 5963 7 ~ „ 5872 708 51,338
1909.. 6958 H„ .. 6292 205 461 51,799
1910.. 6398 7“,, ~ 5872 433 93 51,892
1911.. 6437 7 „ .. 5872 671 51,786
1912.. 7278 71,, ~ 6292 3096 —. 49,676
1913.. 6368 71., .. 6292 515 49,237
1914.. 7506 71 „ „ 6292 1642 48,809
1915.. 9184 8 „ :«•-> 6949 1006 1229 50,038
1916.. 9285 .8 ~ ~ 7437 12 1836 51,874
Along with that table read this one: —
Liabilities,
1900. 1910. 1915. 1916.
Deposits .. £17,610 £30,170 £62,896 £60,893
Other debts . . 633 344 537 2,062
Assets,
Advances . . 29,302 51,119 118,071 125,617
Foreclosures . . 101,243 61,685 33,690 32,596
Other property . . 7,183 54,057 53,785 54,042
Liquid assets . . 18,739 2,369 889 2,022
Steadily for several years past the co. has
been increasing its advances: 1913, £15,757 ;
1914, £96,971; 1915, £118,071; 1916,
£125,617. Considering how very uncertain
the future is, the directors have adopted a
policy which lots of men would shrink from.
It may pan out all right. But there are
large risks attached to it. The one thing
which excuses an increase in advances under
present circumstances is the sale of fore-
closed properties. No doubt balances are
owing by the purchasers of these assets.
But there have evidently been large advances
apart from that. The question is, suppose
there was a slump, could the co. nurse its
securities? That depends upon whether it
could, without realising properties, pay off
those creditors who would want their money.
It owes £62,955. Against that it has
£214,276 of assets —not much liquid, it is
true; yet the total of all assets is quite
enough to make it possible for the co. to
borrow except under the worst possible cir-
cumstances. But the co. ought to protect
itself against having to pay through the
nose, as it would then have to do, by in-
creasing its liquid holding to 25 p.c. at least
of its liabilities. Then it could argue with
its creditors, and it would be reasonably sure
of never having to throw securities on to an
unfavorable market.
W. E. Smith, Ltd., formed to take over an
old-established printing and stationery busi-
ness in Sydney as from October, 1910 (the
deficit to start with represented goodwill
and preliminary exes.) :
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Apr., 1911 ..£3947 10 p.c.-£3408 £18,529
Oct., 1911 .. 5354 10 „ „ 3408 £677 17,260
Apr., 1912 . . 5122 4 „ ~ 1500 702 14,340
Oct., 1912 .. 4382 7 „,, 2625 717 13,300
Apr., 1913 .. , 3867 3 „ „ 1125 747 11,305
Oct., 1913 .. 3182 3 „ „ 1125 1017 10,265
Apr., 1914 . . 2268 Nil 1236 9,233
Loss.
Oct., 1914 .. 98 Nil 1238 10,569
£30,000 of capital written off.
Assets written down, £19,431.
Profit. Reserves.
Apr., 1915 .., 1656 Nil 627 1,129
Oct., 1915 . . 2066 Nil 539 2,656
Apr., 1916 . . 2222 5 p.c. = 1125 537 3,216
Oct., 1916 . . 3204 5 „ „ 1125 549 4,746
There. is a sermon to investors in that. Old
W. E. Smith had been in this business for
years, and had carried it on in his own way.
ije took the whole load on his shoulders.
When lie was ill and tired he sold to this
co., finding a promoter who was prepared
to look at the results and not at the manner
in which the results had been produced.
Then, as anybody could have forecasted, the
man who had taken the whole business on his
shoulders left it, and dividends shrank from
10 p.c. to nothing. Then, the descent going
still further, the capital was reduced from
£75.000 to £45,000. By this time, however,
some other people had seen possibilities in
the business ; and they got hold of it. A first-
-rate Board was appointed and the result
is shown in the table. Of course the co.
is not out of its troubles yet. It never will
be; for it is a business which calls for a
lot of supervision. And it is continually
in competition with small shops which don’t
know anything 6f wages board awards. But
if a business owned by shareholders is at a
disadvantage in the matter of supervision
compared with one owned by a single indi-
vidual or by two of three working partners,
it has advantages in other respects. These
people are all buyers of more or less print-
ing and stationery supplies; and, given
reasonable management, a large volume of
business will flow to the co. almost auto-
matically. Hence W. E. Smith’s has possi-
bilities of being a steady dividend-payer. If
it isn’t it will be-to a very great extent the
shareholders’ own fault.
When the new directors wrote off £30,000
of the capital they cleaned up the balance-
sheet and made it quite a respectable docu-
ment. There is no goodwill in it now, the
Bridge.-street lease has been written down to
a mere £l6O, and a much-needed stocktaking
put values about where they should be.
The total assets as at Oct. 31 were £77,530,
and of that lot £47,788 is in stock, £13,383
in book debts, £6229 in a comparatively new
York-street factory, and the balance in plant
and odds and ends. Total liabilities at the
same date were £26,659, including £18,500 of
6 p.c. debentures. Since April, 1915, when
the whole business had just been overhauled
the co. has got £2990 further into debt, and
has used up £5502 of its cash balances; but
it has added just over £15,500 to its stock
besides making various smail additions to the
plant. So things are going the right way
very definitely.
* * * *
r-Jv’^ S J Iou ® E > Ltd - (Sydney), which paid
£10,500 for the goodwill and fixings of a
Sydney eating-house as from March, 1911 :
Deficit
Writ- (Exclusive
ten of
Profit. Dividends. Off. Goodwill)
Mar., 1912.. £195 74 p.c. = £975 Nil £7BO
Loss.
Mar., 1913.. 475 Nil £2165 3420
Profit.
Mar., 1914.. 1121 Nil 4328 6627
„ ~ , ... „ _ Reserves.
Capital written off, £7OOO .. 373
Sept., 1914.. 3152 Nil 667 2858
Mar., 1915.. 1213 Nil 1194 2877
Sept., 1915.. 1072 5 p.c. = 175 566 3208
Written off Debenture Reserve 450 2758
Mar., 1916.. 154 10 p.c. = 350 300 2262
Written off Debenture Reserve 300 )
Written off other Reserves . . 773 f MB9
-Sept., 1916.. 196 5 p.c. = 175 1210
Apparently some people had dined well;
and in gratitude to the chef they offered him
£10,500 for the goodwill of his beautiful
business. The chef said he didn’t mind;
and when he left the business the far-sighted
people discovered that what had gone was
precisely what they had paid £10,500 for.
To-day the co. doesn’t run the expensive
eating-house any more, and it has written
off half its capital—from £14,000 to £7OOO.
As a sort of side-line it acquired a neighbor-
ing pub, the Balfour, on terms which have
never been disclosed ; and nowadays it runs
only that. So its assets consist of leasehold
and plant, £8355; stocks, £2104; etceteras,
£495. Total £10,954. On the other side it
owes £2370, inluding a few debentures.
There may be profits in it. But they are
by 110 means sure; and the assets would of
course be a poor lot for a forced sale.
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (Wes-
tralia) :• —•
Dividends and
Dividend Tax
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
Sept.,’lo.. £17,350 £446 24p.c. = £l’? 783 £1167 £217,133
Mar.,’ll.. 35,424 827 24 ~ „ 12,783 2972 235,975
Sept.,’ll.. 21,604 827 24 ~ ~ 12,783 1037 242,932
Transferred to capital, £101,450 .. 141,412
Mar.,’l2.. 36,460 827 16 p.c. = 17,043 734 159,3; 8
Sept.,’l2.. 18,326 827 16 ~ ~' 17,043 917 158,877
Mar.,’l3.. 38,114 988 16 ~ ~ 17,043 416 178,544
Sept.,’l3.. 21,407 1576 16 ~ ~ 17,043 837 180,416
Mar.,’l4.. 40,718 1576 16 ~ ~ 17,043 6208 196,356
Sept.,’l4.. 22,973 1576 16 ~ ~ 17,043 1162 199,578
Mar.,’ls . 37,748 1500 16 ~ ~ 16,232 824 218,770
.Sept.,’ls.. 15,628 1500 16 „ ~ 16,232 2122 214.544
Mar.,.’16.. 33,505 1500 16 ~ ~ 16,232 1632 228,685
Sept ,’16.. 18,431 1500 16 ~ „ 16,232 399 228,986
It is fine scenery to look back over. Ten
years ago, and that was well after the
Westralian boom was supposed to have sub-
sided, the co. had £348,954 of assets, and
owed £64,588. That gave it £279,366 net.
To-day it has £539,524 of assets and
£39,907 of liabilities, or £499,617 net.' That
means an increase of £220,251 of net assets
in 10 years; but of that total £50,000 is
due to an issue of pref. capital. Assuming,
therefore, that the wasting assets have been
sufficiently written* down, the profits have
in 10 years been £170,251 in excess of the
dividends. Now let us look at the allowance
for depreciation. Two lots of properties-
stand in the books at cost, or so little less
than cost that the difference doesn’t matter
—brewery lands and buildings, £84,600;
hotel properties, £274,675. On the other
hand, brewery plant, etc., which cost
£153,427, stand- in the books at only £59,254.
It is very likely that some of the properties
bought in early days, including the brewery,
are worth far more to-day. But when
large sums are derived from the rents of
premises which will have to be pulled down
and rebuilt some day, it seems to this paper
that a replacement fund should be provided
out of revenue. When the premises are left
in at cost, the management practically takes
credit for a rise in market value, and says
that that rise counterbalances the deprecia-
tion. Anyhow, here are the facts: the co.
has a total share capital of £252,900; and
to represent that it has £143,853 of brewery
premises and plant, £275,307 of pub and
other, property, and £80,456 net of miscel-
laneous assets, mostly liquid. Since the war
started the results have been just about as
good as they were before. Total assets are
£924 less than they were as at September,
1914, but liabilities are £29.444 less, so there
has been a net improvement of £28,520,
which- is all right for two years of war,
especially as during that period about


THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to
Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
Second only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve him-
self of anxiety concerning such
Selection By appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia, which
has had over twenty-eight years’
experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
ThePadfic Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt.. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4^d.
1/6
/ 9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4 1/2
7d. (minimum
11/8, 20 words)
U.5.A...
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
.7. MILWAJtD, Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
V'iARIBatWTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tke 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital •■£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Australian General Electric Co., corner Went-
worth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney; corner
Queen and Little Coilins Streets, Melbourne, place
their services at the disposal of all those requiring
information which will enable them to readily select
the most advantageous material used in the construc-
tion of overhead-trolley systems, and track return,
for electric haulage in mining plants. We here men-
tion a few of the devices in which the above company
specialise. Kail bonds, trolley-wire supports, sus-
pensions, clamping- ears, mechanical splicing sleeves,
strain insulators, turnbuckles, trolley frogs, drills,
etc. All of this apparatus has been especially de-
signed and manufactured to meet every possible
condition of mining service. Write for particu-
lars.—Advt.
* * »
The builder who needs “The best roof that money
can buy”—one that is spark-proof and economical-
should use Adamax Roofing. It is better than gal-
vanised-iron, because it does not rust, rot or pinhole
—is not affected by heat or cold, wind or rain—acids,
gases or chemical fumes. The long-fibred felt from
which it is made is thoroughly impregnated with
pure hydro-carbon, and does not contain resin, tar,
fish-oil, and being a non-conductor is much cooler
than iron in summer and warmer in winter. Full
particulars and prices from William Adams & Co.
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide.—
Advt.
* * * *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.—Advt. [3
* * * *
When considering the economy, there can be no
satisfactory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe.
The ideal pressure .pipe, manufactured in all sizes
from 3in. to 14ft. diameter. Send for illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company
Limited (head office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. Factories: Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic.; Port Adelaide, S.A.—
Advt.
Melbourne Accountant, lately returned from Cali-
fornia, will undertake personally negotiate industrial
or mining business in United States early in 1917.
Address “Negotiator,” care Bulletin, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—Advt.
* * * »
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.—Advt.
* * * «
In addition to making Wrought Irc-n, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.—Advt.
* * * *
Eakth-iiandling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * #
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Bofler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. —-Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.—Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 ®
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 1
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row k Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
„ T. W. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereaah Street. Sydney.
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA & QUEENSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State. ■
SYDNEY OFFICE, 48 YOUNC STREET.
Directors:
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman).
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. JAMES KIDD, Esq.
11. W. BELL, Esq. R. M. PITT, Esq.
F. B. S. FALKINER, Esq.
Before making a Will or Settlement of pro-
perty or appointing an Attorney write for book-
let giving the Company’s charges and setting
forth the advantages of appointing the Com-
pany, to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
£15,000 has been written off the book value
of plant, etc.
What is going to be pumped out of the
future The Bulletin really can’t afford to
tell for sixpence. Prophecies, are extra. But
there is a large probability that things are
not going to be any better for the brewer
and the pub-owner—especially the owner of
the pub that depends mostly upon a bar-
trade. It isn’t only the wowser who is in
this early-closing and anti-liquor campaign.
If it was a wowser’s fight the prospects of
success in Westralia wouldn’t be brilliant.
But there is a huge body of the Labor vote
going the same way, especially that vote
which is most influenced by the new leader-
ship. We saw .that in N. S. Wales, where
the Worker was more teetotal in the six
o’clock fight than the teetotaller.
* * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Go. (Perth) - :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 1909. .£1075 20 p.c.=£loso £25 £10,97fi
Oct., 1909.. 1557 10 „ „ 525 1032 12,008
Apl., 1910.. 1831 20 „ „ 1050 £268 513 12,521
Oct., 1910.. 1616 20 „ „ 1050 66 500 13,021
Ap1.,1911.. 1892 30 „ „ 1575 317 13,338
Oct, 1911.. 1898 20 „ .. 1155 743 14,081
Apl., 1912.. 1691 28 „ „ 1628 63 14,144
Oct., 1912.. 1461 18J „ ~ 1155 306 14,450
Apl., 191.3.. 1888 26f „ „ 1680 219 14,439
Oct., 1913.. 1757 17J ~ ~ 1150 607 15,046
Apl., 1914.. 1587 251 „,, 1650 14,983
Oct., 1914.. 881 10 „,, 700 181 15,164
Apt, 1915.. 1267 10 „,, 700- 567 15,731
Oct., 1915.. 1573 10 „,, 700 873 16,604
Apl., 1916.. 1698 24J „ „ 1700 16,602
Oct., 1916..- 1552 10 „ „ 750 802 17,404
This co. isn’t making the progress it ought
to. Seven years ago the value of the trust
and agency business in hand was £1,404,818.
To-day it is £1,955,757. As this co. had
the field to itself for a long while the figures
ought to be better. That they are not is no
doubt largely due to the fact that so many
Westralian property-owners are absentees,
and that there is always a large disposition
among the first generation to go back
“home” to die. However, the movement of
the figures is the right way; and time is
fighting for the shareholders. The co.’s paid
capital is £15,000, in-£2 10s. shares paid to
155.; and this and the reserves are in pre-
mises (£12,823), mortgages (£6133), and
public stock and debentures, with a few
etceteras. There are no liabilities worth
mentioning.
The Electrical Oil Co., of Melbourne, is
making claims that almost take the breath
away. It owns a process, invented by C. F.
Lungley, for transforming kerosene into
petrol. This process “takes a waste oil
worth Id. a gallon and makes it worth
Is. Bd. a gallon at a cost of another Id. a
gallon.” Residual oil left after various pro-
ducts have been extracted amounts, it is
alleged, to 40 p.c. of the original petroleum.
It js “practically worthless,” yet from it the
claim is made that this new process extracts:
, £ s. d.
25% Petrol .. . . Worth 1/6 a gallon, 1 17 6
15% Engine Kerosene .. „ 1/6 ~ 12 6
30% Illuminating-Kerosene „ 1 10 0
15% Lubricating-Oil .. ~ 4/- 3 0 0
15% Tar . ' .. ’,,1/- „ 15 0
100 gallons „ £8 -5 0
The substance used in the transformation has
been submitted in confidence, to Dr. McFar-
land, vice-chancellor of Melbourne Uni., who
certifies that it is “of such low commercial
value that its cost need hardly be taken into
account in estimating the cost of carrying
through the process.” As ■ the world’s
petroleum supply is 15,000 million gallons, of
which 6000 millions are residual oil, “almost
valueless,” and as it is claimed that this pro-
cess converts such ■ oil into petrol, kerosene,
lubricating oils and tar at a cost of only Id.
per gallon, there are either millions in it or a
big disappointment for somebody.
* * * *
All preliminaries having now been agreed
on, meetings of the shareholders in the Royal
Bank of Queensland and the Bank of North
Queensland have been called to authorise
amalgamation. The new title is to be the
Bank of Queensland. The Royal has some
pref. shares; and as it is proposed to have
only one class of shares in the new bank, the
holders of these prefs. are offered either
deposit receipts or ordinary shares of the
full face value of their present holdings. In
view of the fact that the assets are to be
written down and only enough capital issued
to represent the assets on a conservative
valuation, the prefs. will be well secured if
they accept shares, while their return will
certainly be better than the old guaranteed
• J, i P-c. In other words, in the present bank
they can’t get more than 3| p.c. unless a lot
of dead capital shares in it. Under the
amalgamation they will share fully in a
dividend which has to be paid only on live
capital. With ordinary shares they may take
rather more risk than with prefs. ; but it is
better to have ordinary shares in a vigorous,
progressive bank than prefs. in one which
suffers from the handicap of long-past indis-
cretions and makes poor progress in conse-
quence.
Metropolitan, Helensburgh (N.S.W.),
during 12 months to March 31, raised 229,518
tons of South Coast coal. But costs were so
high that after writing off £3OOO it made a
net profit of only £3866. That means no more
than 4Jd. per ton. Dividend appropriations
were 8 p.c. on first prefs.= £2288; 5 p.c. (on
account) second prefs. = £4953. There was
£21,574 brought forward, making £25,440
available, and after deducting dividends
totalling £7241, there remains £18,199 to
carry forward.
* * * *
Mt. Kembla, also on the South Coast,
raised 244,419 tons during the year ended
June 30. Its net profit was £20,689, and
that means about Is. 9d. per ton. The co.
owes this rather exceptional profit to its
modern electrical equipment and its prox-
imity to port. The capital is £350,000, so a
modest 6 p.c. costs £21,000, which is a heavy
load for a colliery producing less than 250,000
tons in 12 months. On June 30 there was
after paying the dividend only £3012 to
credit of profit and loss, or less than the
year started with.
# * * *
From Westonia:—
Edna Central maintains its improvement, . and
although nothing sensational has been disclosed (or
even reported) the reserves are being built up to a
figure that will not shame the next half-yearly
report. An excellent block of stone is being stoped
near Edna May boundary, No. 3 level on the main
lode, and the east drive on the new lode (No. 3
level) is improving from nothing to 5 or 6 dwt.
The new lode is likely to be connected with main
shaft at No. 4 level within two or three months.
The mine is now well handled, and, although we
miss the old 10 and 20 oz. assays, the present vigor-
ous development policy promises to result in the
mine paying well on present prices—which is better
than appeared possible a few months ago. The
Central is now quite respectable. It is hoped the
standard will not fall when it locates the “deeps”
of the Consolidated new lode, as it is pretty sure
to do eventually.
The Deeps’ debenture holders, subscribers of
£lO,OOO, are not feeling well. Out of £lO,OOO,
£5OO went as underwriters’ commission, £4OOO in
repayment of loan advanced by director Duff and
£lOOO in payment of lease acquired on the north.
Then there is a boiler and compressor to pay for,
besides settling. with sundry creditors, so there is
not much cash for the manager to play with. The
ore reserves above 485 ft. level are being rapidly
exhausted, and revenue from this source must soon
fail. The company is also faced with a main shaft-
sink of 75ft. to 100 ft., notwithstanding the fact that
the level below 485 ft. must be less valuable than
the one at that point.
Edna May is driving- hard for the reef at the No.
5 level. Except for the water the mine is looking
well. The Nos. 4 and 5 levels are worth viewing
by those who appreciate good underground work
accomplished under trying circumstances.
■* * * *
Bob Turner, having made his bit with
Tricks and others in Edna May, was given
the go-by at the shareholders’ meeting by
some of his old pals. The secret is- that the
Deeps amalgamation idea is “on” again
and Turner is off that. Of course some say
it isn’t an amalgamation or a fusion, but a
price to be fixed. Whatever name it may be
called, the big body of Edna May share-
holders ought not to be caught in the mood
to give much for Deeps until they see how
the shoot is going in that cemented-up show. v
The argument of the amalgamators is that'
the Edna will be able to work out its last
two levels at a greatly reduced cost if it
gets hold of the Deeps shaft. True; but
to equip that working, put up pumps, and
do other needfuls will eat up a pretty penny.
So the Deeps shaft may be a dear bargain
except it falls into the lap of the big mine.
And more unlikely things than that have
happened in mining.
* * * *
Oroya Links (W.A.) has just raked in a
thousand or so in royalty from a tribu-
tor’s crushing out of portion of the old
Brown Hill workings. The gold was got
out of a branch of the old Oroya shoot, that
remarkable flat pipe of ore which traversed
the Brown Hill, Brown Hill Extended, Asso-
ciated Northern and Oroya North Block, and
from which several million pounds were
extracted. It spread out from 30 to about
100 feet in width just before reaching the
Associated boundary and proved a great
disappointment in that property. Its origin
is now a matter of much argument among
experts, though in the fat days no one
seemed to bother about how it came to be
where it was. Sufficient that it yielded
succulent dividends and directors’ fees.
* * * *
The Government experts who eyed recent
experiments have reported that to get the
best blasting results in the W.A. mines future
supplies of explosives will have to consist of
four parts of 50 per cent, gelignite and one
part of standard 61.4 per cent, gelignite.
The consent of the authorities for the use
of that mixture is now being sought.
* ** * *
philde Harold, near Laverton (W.A.), is
being nibbled at again. This time a Mel-
bourne crowd is sampling and claims that
assays over a width of from 7 to 11 feet of
quartz are satisfactory. The local paper
predicts that the option will be completed.
Then it must be on something new. On
what was formerly exposed the show was
unpayable.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) still struggles with
impoverished values at depth and doesn’t
show any signs of getting clear. The latest
bore put down is from the 3620 ft. level and
so far only makes of miserably poor ore
have been struck.
* * * * *
For the first time in its history the Ben-
digo goldfield has produced less than
IOO.OOOoz. in 12 months. The total for 1916
was 85_,6220z. Divs. were only £13.275, and
calls totalled £46,419. Carlisle Co. headed
the list with 53520 z. for the year. In the
old days when its three tributes were
making the pace a cracker, the Garden Gully
has often had a cake of retorted gold in the
Bank of Victoria’s Bendigo window of that
size for a fortnight’s crushing. In the 1870
boom the Great Extended Hustlers thought
nothing of showing a rough cake of 4000 oz.
for the fortnight in the old Oriental Bank
window on a Saturday night. The old names
of the steady producers still occur in the
list: Virginia, 35720 z.; Great Northern,
30500 z. ; Catherine Reef United, 32090 z. ;
South New Moon, 27030 z.; Hercules and
Energetic, 26950 z.; and famous Garden
Gully United, 23670 z.
* * * #
“Janus”: There may be labor trouble
because Justice Powers has ruled out 44
hours a week for deep-lead Victorian claims,
but if the men want the industry to live
they will accept the decision. Cathcart Cen-
tral is worked out, and that leaves only
the Duke and Main Leads and' the Duke
Extended in the Maryborough district; Great
Extended Consols and Chiltern Valley at
Rutlierglen and New Langi Logan and
South Langi at Ararat—the weakling pro-
geny of the old alluvial giants of the State.
The two Maryborough claims are doing a
hobble, only a shade better than the miser-
able crawl of the two Langi Logans. It’s
a toss-up whether the Extended will pull
through to test the western ground, and the
Duke Consols isn’t very sure that the wash
down the gutter will pay. The silence about
Chiltern and Rutherglen is because no single
volume could ever- contain the tale of disap-
pointment there. If Justice Powers had given
the 44 hours claimed he would have
cut the working days to 10 per fortnight,
for with the time taken to get from the
shaft to the face the Saturday shift would
have done only two hours’ mining. That
arrangement isn’t possible in deep-lead
mines where the water runs rivers, and the
clank of the pumps must ring out from day
to day and never stop. With this side of
the industry up against it owing to a
dribble of divs. coming from only the Cath-
cart Central and the Duke Consols, the
Judge’s finding was the only one possible
unless he wanted to knock the claims out
of existence. Over half a million of_ expen-
diture would then go beyond recall. ' As he
gives the mines a chance it is up to the
unions to back him up and avoid adding to
employment, as they will do if they jib at
his 47 hours ruling.
* * * *
Stock Exchange .magnates let a bank
official abolish the dole paid to Bill Rain for
acting as managing director of the Nuggetty
Ajax and shave down D. Murray’s salary as
secretary to £3 .per week. It is all typical of
the economy which the banking community is
forcing on mining folk, though word of it
rarely gets outside the bank parlor. A good
managing director is a jewel; and Rain’s
work entitled him to better treatment. But
past records don’t count much with some
bankers, who have still to learn that the
cheap man is generally the dearest when the
life-and-death struggle is faced.
* * * #
Chillagoe shareholders are naturally dis-
appointed with the sale of the copper works,
mines and railway to the Queensland Gov-
ernment. The debenture-holders had, of
course, the whole say in the matter. By the
way, in addition to the purchase of the rail-
way and works for £450,009, Etheridge rail-
way debentures are to cost the State
£225,000, raising the total price to £675,000.
* * * *
Little North Mount Farrell (Tas.) had a
gay time last half-year, for it' splashed up
£14,000 (3s. 6d. per share), partly out of
accumulated profits, The output of concen-
trates was a record; but in the old days,
when larger, quantities of high-grade crudes
were available, profits were more certain.
After writing off £2365 for depreciation and
paying taxes and dividends there was £10,487
to carry forward, which compares with
£19.259 brought • forward from the previous
half-year.
* * * *
“Sulphide”: Re South Bischoff (B.
21/12/T6). The first return from 43 tons
is 25 bags of 70 p.c. concentrates; no 45 p.c.
concentrates have been bagged, but the whole
of the tailings, assaying 11 p.c., have been
stacked for future treatment. The present
treatment is very crude, the ore being sent
direct from the battery on to a Card table
without any classification. Hence only about
half of the tin ore is being recovered. The
distance from the big mountain is about five
miles in a direct line due south. The por-
phyry face at the end of the tunnel is 9ft.
wide, showing rich ore ; and the run of stone
has so far been proved for a distance of
462 ft. and is still going strong.
Meetings of shareholders in the North
Tas. Copper and the Colebrook P. A. were
held in Launceston lately to consider the
offer of Ex-Senator Clemons, now of Lon-
don, to purchase the properties for £BOOO
each. The North Tas. meeting lapsed; at
the other the West Coast shareholders,
headed bv J. S. Munroe, led the opposition,
and the offer was turned down flat.


Under
Royal
Warrant
fd
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
QtortesHeidsiecK
Reims
K lJ} •*">**'
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
gf
jvtosie
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/1
Norwegian Cradle Song —Mvel
Meditation - - Morel
A Resolve - * Kotlar
Question • * Kotlar
Contemplation » • Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blore
ALLAN S. 261 Collins St.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET O. CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1906.
FESQ CSb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG i HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETER
Sydney, January 1, 1917.
My Dear A 1:1 ,\i. —
Recent race-days were chiefly for the per-
son—prosperous and otherwise—who goes to
Ilandwick to bet. The dress-parade, joy of
the scribes and Philistines, died within the
first year of the war. It was a lingering
agony, with purple patches when somebody or
other got out for a dash of publicity. But
the Old Year fled with Tatt.’s meeting wear-
ing ordinary summer frocks to dare Satur-
day’s .sulky, spitting clouds of smoke grey.
The few regular lawn-mowers of note in-
cluded the Spencer Bruntons, who keep the
holidays in their water-lapped home at
Double Bay. The Arthur Allens, who rarely
miss a race, took daughter Margaret in foamy
pink and ivory muslin. The squatting Nevi-
sons, of Ohio, in town for the icecream
season, were in the official stand. A Bathurst
M'Phillamy or two; Lees, from the same
downs; Una Clift, the goffing lady; Mrs.
Kenna, in a pale-biscuit frock ; the Augustus
Ilookes, of Walcha, regular race visitors—
these were amongst a crowd of strange coun-
try faces in the grandstand.
The year 191 G saw the evolution of the
official stand as the Place for the Clotted
Cream. It used to be a merely male
resort. Then the ladies of the house-
bold, having been given the earlier
penned-off lawn and members’ eyrie as
something apart from the alleged “grand”
stand, began to worm their way to the house
of solemn bettors. They did it one -by one.
Mrs. Fitzribbon, having seen Mrs. Baa Sheep
climb this select altitude, inquired sternly
why she should be condemned to pace the
members’ bit of grass. The last horse carni-
vals of the weary old year saw the official
stand no longer a safe retreat for hardened
bachelors. _ Man is still permitted to con-
sider it his. But his wife personally ' con-
ducts him there!
To the long list of Judges’ sons who will
never return—one thinks of Ferguson, Street,
Simpson, llich and Duffy—is added that of
Captain Mervyn Higgins, only son of the
distinguished Equity man of the High Court
Bench. He was at the Bar and promising
well when the gong sounded and he put on
a private’s uniform.
The cable brings word that a son of Justice*
Simpson, who is a major in the A.1.F., was
married on Boxing Day to Marjorie Blax-
land, of Dubbo —great-granddaughter or
thereabouts of that Gregory Blaxland who,
with Wentworth and Lawson, found the first
way over the Blue Mountains when last cen-
tury was an infant. The Blaxland clan
traces its pedigree back someway earlier
than that, for it claims that one of the
family .save the land on which St. Augustine
built his first church when he came to Can-
terbury to convert the heathen English in
a.d. 597. The Simpson-Blaxland knot was
hitched bv parson Fred Campion, who as a
young layman in the ’9o’s was in Sydney as
secretary to his uncle, Governor Hampden,
and, afterwards returning to this country as
an Anglican priest, started in 1902. with
“Brother Charles” Matthews, the “bush bro-
therhood,” which works from Dubbo as its
headquarters. Campion went back to the
Cold Country in 1907, and had a parish at
W est Grinstead. Sussex, in the High
Church south of England where he belongs;
but. he has lately gone as rector of Leigh, in
Low Church- Lancashire, where Archgaiters
Wright comes from.
For three weeks the W. A. Holmans listen
to the wind soughing over the sea at Mona
Vale. They’ve rented a decorative cottage
near that one so often tenanted by the A. B.
Piddingtons.
Daylight Saving fell on sleepy suburbs
which had spent ISew Year’s Eve listening
to the hideous noises of the season. There
is still money to waste in this hamlet. A
. fusillade of crackers was the 1 a.m. lullaby
in various near-by suburbs. A few over-
truthful city clocks stuck to the old time,
and the 8.30 birds saw 7.30 implacably
hoisted as they hopped off the footboard.
Well get used to the taradiddle in a week
01” so.
Meantime one other little lot joins the
cow-farmers in moaning over the innovation.
Those who have charge of the Sabbath even-
fng_ church collections foresee a further
shrinkage in congregations. The ungodly
don t so nnich mind setting off to the taber-
nacle in the dusk, when there’s not much else
doing; but to go almost in the middle of
the afternoon, with at least two hours of
daylight ahead—the deacon moans and says
it is asking too much of the unrighteous.
The week’s “social” history is chiefly a
record of local movies. That portion of'the
population which gnashes the cooling salad
ia Tasmania or climbs the mountains to
catch the sunrise has been setting out after
its prey. The Andy Stuarts packed up—he
for" a trip to Adelaide, and the slim Mrs.
Andy for the Blue Hills not so far away.
One of their hopefuls came “head” of Barker
College this last term.
Mrs. Norris,'the youthful widow of the late
Colonel Bert, had a thrilling voyage to Syd-
ney. With her baby in her arms she was
more than once ready—ready to the last tag
of the lifebelt —to leap into her allotted place
in the liner’s lifeboats. But the skipper hap-
pened to be a smarter seaman than the com-
mander of the Hun submarine, and the
enemy periscope melted into the waste of
tumbling water. The feeling of the foe at
missing a ship with a lot of women and
kiddies aboard cannot be imagined.
Harry Julius takes his little wife and
Julius junior on a trip to the U.S.A. They
leave about the end of February. The Syd-
ney black-and-white artist, whose theatrical
caricatures have graced The Bulletin for
many years, has done some of his best work
under incredible difficulties. His connec-
tion with the theatrical side of Bulletin
work led him to experiment with the carica-
ture for picture-show purposes; and his suc-
cess in that line here now dures him abroad
for six months to seek a larger market for
his wares. Incidentally he is going to send
The Bulletin the Harry Julius idea of
theatrical and other celebrities who keep
Woodrow Wilson company.
The State school-teacher is a strenuous
body who dabbles in learning right up to the
moment for boiling the Christmas pudding.
The recent art classes in the Fort-street
school-grounds bring up the old question:
“Is it worth while to spoil a summer holiday
dabbling with work that keeps an artist’s
nose' to his palette all the year round?” An
exhibition of the “art” turned out by the
teachers was recently hung in the Educa-
tion Building. It answered the query with
a forceful “No!”
Another Cornstalk, lan Macleod (Mrs. H.
Randall), is getting more than a flash of
limelight because of her Australian romance,
“Hack's Brat.” Hodder and Stoughton, who
handed Katherine Prichard a plum for her
story, are the publishers. “lan Macleod”
was a West Maitland High School girl
before she tucked up her hair, and the school
still remembers her as the founder of a
magazine of some merit. Here’s the lady!
Went over the shadowy Border on
Christmas Day, Mrs. Pat MacCabe, widow
of the late F.P., of Russell Vale, in the
Wollongong district. The mother of several
handsome daughters—one is Mrs. Edward
Jenkins, and the late Harry Merewether
married another—and some upstanding sons,
Mrs. Pat lived to see her 87th milestone
ahead. The old lady’s life bridged the gap
between the Australian pioneers’ slow-toiling
bullock-drays and the modern sheep-king's
herd of motors.
In the attack on the Christmas chicken,
the Soldiers’ Club, commanded by Dr. Mary
Booth, was beaten by none. From dusty
morn to sultry eve Billjim was taken in and
very nearly done for. At about 10 p.m. the
voluntary waitresses were handing round the
final refreshments. With his' soul full of
peace, and the rest of him full of ham, poul-
try, sweets, etc., Bill gazed softly at the
aromatic coffee that breathed its incense
under his nose. “I can't do it, lady,” he
said. _ “You’ve got me heat!” Then the vol-
untaries removed mountains of earthenware
and played an impromptu carol amongst the
washing-up.
Concerning the numerous festivals
arranged for soldiers and their kiddies, the
keynote was generous super-abundance. If
we are at the same business this time next
year—a likely event —the tendency to over-
lap ought to be seen to beforehand. Too
much perishable stuff from private stores
means bursting garbage-tins when the feast
is over. Mrs. Jones didn’t know exactly
how much material comfort Mrs. Brown’s
suit-case and other baggage contained. In
consequence both good ladies were wondering
what to do with superfluous food when the
Christmas chimes rang 12.
A Sydney woman. Mrs. H. C. Macfie, went
to Melbourne the other day to take delivery
of a live legacy—an Italian greyhound of
high degree, valued at anything past 50
guineas. The breeder was the late Mrs.
Chubb, of Lichfield, famous for the delicate
dukes which attend shows in their own
motors. Mrs. Chubb, who died early in
November, was as keen a patriot as she
was a dog-fancier. On Referendum Day she
was carried, a dying woman, to the vehicle
that took her to vote “Yes.”
Manager Freddie Shipman and his small
commanding-officer with the shining locks
poised in Sydney for turkey-time.
Kate Rooney (Mrs. Kirkham) gave a
Christmas party in her parents’ home “to
meet little Billee.” The infant, of two sum-
mers or so, handed grandma Rooney a white
silk shawl and passed on an antique opal
scarf-pin to grandfather. This is our favor-
ite contralto’s first Christmas in her own
country for several years.
That blooming young matron, Mrs. Carty
Salmon, came to Sydney from Melbourne for
the holidays. She is staying with dad —Mat
Harris of Etham —till the New Year is
nicely aired.
The wedding of Private Milburn Marsh
and Miss Tucker, of Kirribilli Point, inter-
ests the oldest inhabitants. The ’groom
descends from a former S.M. who before he
took to the Bench was mixed up in pas-
toral matters with the Scotts of Glendon.
The latter entertained the explorer Leich-
hardt on the eve of his last journey.
The brothers Scott also got on to the
Bench. One Helenus, father of our own
Rose, was stationed at Newcastle. The other
delivered the law at the Old Central. The
Tuckers built Carabella House, the pic-
turesque chalet now the R.S.Y.S. head-
quarters at Kirribilli.
The Alma Bakers are summering at Mitta-
gong, where they’ve taken a house. One
does not wish to throw anything heavier than
a peanut at the Maoriland man who has
raised a pile of money for battle-planes. But
we’re getting a little weary of the “Thank
God I’m not an Australian!” attitude
assumed by Maorilanders who won’t live out-
side this continent.
Andrew Higginson, the first of the Merry
Widow’s Danilos to be heard in Australia,
has left a moderate job in “The Amber Prin-
cess” in Noo Yark, and taken a ticket back
to Sydney. The Tait brethren have given
Andrew a contract, and he will appear with
Barry Lupino and some imported Yankee
artists in the Tait production of “Very Good
Eddie” at Sydney Palace on February 10.
The Italian Opera Co. in its Maoriland
shipping experiences met the hurried stew-
ard who sees no difference between signor
and signorina. Things became beautifully
mixed when a signor, pulling off his boots
in a two- or four-berth cabin, faced some-
body else’s signora or a signorina or two,
who with flashing black eyes dared the in-
truder to even wait to pick up his debris.
After one or more acute situations the
travellers may stick to the English Mr. and
Mrs. and Miss till they get back to their
native olive-groves.
A Manly girl, Violet Rowling, only daugh-
ter of the late E. A. Rowling and Mrs. Lang-
ley. said she would when Frank Watson pro-
duced the ring. The bride, who was given
awav by her brother, Griffith Rowling, was
gowned in ivory, with a fantasy of pearl-
embroidered lace on the foamy corsage. The
usual acreage of satin train fell from the
shoulders. A cloud-like veil of white tulle
was lent by Mrs. Duguid, the Killara lady
\ylio used to be Miss Watson. Diamonds were
the glittering gems the ’groom gave his Best
Girl. Bridesmaidens Muriel Watson and
Gwen Fraser were in white, with pink mil-
linery—a cool, icecream effect these warm
days. ’Moon by motor to the Mountains.
Some famous British sculptor who turned
out the first Edith Cavell bust—l think for
Westminster Abbey—exaggerated the bows
of the nurse’s official bonnet. In marble
immense white tags under the chin make for
painful caricature. Theo Cowan has, in her
memorial of the noble nurse, kept clear of all
that. There’s just the small, neat finish
under the firm chin, with the simple lines of
the uniform to give the necessary dignity.
An Albury girl, Dorothy Andrews, daugh-
ter of a local doctor, is making herself heard
in Londop. Her good-bye recital here was
about three years ago. Since the war-cloud
burst, Dorothy has been rushing up and
down the ivory keys under a London music-
master. After her recent concert in the Big
Smoke, she was to have packed up for home
and father.
One of Pilot Murray’s pretty daughters
■was married on December 23, at St. Philip’s.
The ’groom was Horace Knight, eldest hope
of Mrs. J. P. Ward, of Vaucluse. Party at
Petty’s.
Wonder if Dr. Elizabeth Macdonald, of
the M.L. Education Department, will say
a few nice things about Sydney when she
gets back to the Hot Water Isles? Any-
how, this hamlet was very nice to her while
she was here for the pow-wow of school
doctors who examine the eyes, earache and
back teeth of the Young Idea.
Horticultural ladies ought to go and see
“The Bunyip” at the Opera House—nee
Adelphi. There’s one scene—a station de-
voted to fruit and sheep and a squatter in
brown velveteen knickers—that settles the
question. I mean: “Shall we go on the
land?” Certainly! It looks like a frolic,
and the pretty chorus girls solve the sar-
torial question. Wide and shady hats and
blue linen overalls —cut like father’s when he
pulls them on to see what is the matter with
the motor-bike —and shirt-like blouses. Just
the thing for climbing ladders and dragging
down the yellowest apricots. Only the horti-
cultural ladi-es will have to cultivate willow-
wand figures if they don’t want to look like
aldermen in sky-blue trousers.
The Ist and 53rd Comforts dames, who
did great things in the year that is cinders,
are shaking up their workers for super-
woman efforts in the January dog-days.
Hon. sec. Mrs. Glanville sounds the get-to-
work trumpet.
St. James’s Hall palpitated with hair-
bows during the “Dot and the Kangaroo”
season, arranged by Grace Stafford. The
late Miss Pedley’s charming little story was
played by enthusiastic youngsters without
missing a line. A native bear (B. Gow),
a bush magpie (M. Doherty), the mild old-
man kangaroo (M. Armstrong), the tiny
heroine Dot who lost her way, and the
uproarious Kookaburra (V. Masters) kept
the show moving. The money helps soldiers’
kiddies. As a fact, if there could be such a
modern miracle as a real pantomime for
children, this all-Australian story would be
a thriller. Even the grown-ups—the merely
mothers and aunties—enjoyed Dot’s adven-
tures in Bushland. A dance by juvenile
native companions, with suitable plumage
and black stockings, was worth any mileage
of ordinary ballet from a youngster’s point
of view.
You wouldn’t think the busy head of St.
Vincent’s Hospital had. time to go a-
Christmasing amongst the kiddies. But
there’s a staggering record of 1000 poor
youngsters with their arms filled with gifts
and their small bodies full of material joys.
The mother rectress was chieftainess, and
sent them off to see the movies with joyous
bunting waving in baby hands.
Florence Rodway went home to Hobart
for the holiday weeks. Rodway, senior, is
an unworldly sesthetic individual who would
rather catch a new species of grasshopper
than a big dentist’s fee.
The Alexandra Hospital has been sending
out . S.O.S. signals during 1916. Dad
Christmas heard the call, Dr. Clubbe said
nice things about the full stockings, and
secretary Moss whispered of favors to come
in the shape of endowed cots. Over 30,000
kiddies were helped in this haven in the just-
dead year. . Mayor Ness, of Marrickville.
spoke for his hubbub, which means to endow
a Dulwich Hill cot in 1917.
Mrs. Mary Gilmore, whose facile pen
weaves melodious verse, is not going to write
a sonnet to ptomaine. She is just getting
over the nuisance, which laid her low in
the pudding season. Mary’s mother, by the
way. the late Mrs. Cameron, was the “Busy
Bee” of the first regular woman’s column in
the Sydney Telegraph. Before that Mrs.
Henry Gullett had written up such items
as the paper thought worth while. As Mary
herself has successfully wrestled with the
ptomaine fiend, I’m not going to take stock
of all her inky activities!
Surgeon-Colonel Marshall had a long
tussle with the Man with the Hour-glass.
But he didn’t live to see the New Year sun
that shone on the graves of Gallipoli. Severe
damages on that tragic shore were the
beginning of the end. He was a member of
the. Irish-Australian medical family to
which Dr. Hamilton Marshall also belongs.
The Battalion Comforts dames are like
a Diana of the Crossways, always armed for
the chase. They hunt either singly or in
couples for every empty shop, barn or kennel
in which to exhibit their wares “on loan.”
At the Highland Gathering the 30th per-
suaded the committee to let them brew tea
and dispense soft drinks. With heroic for-
titude. and by way of snaring the Havseed
contribution, they keep open at 39 Pitt-
street over the holidays.
.Tennis is going through its annual revival
this week-end, when the country comes to
town to knock the balls over the Double Bay
nets. They begin calling “Love” on Jan. 6.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP tIOME.
At the War.
mm
sisss
m
£#v
m s
m
&
•AM
-
gdk
WfM
■'j&
am
&8f
*5
K
EE
m
-
w
m
fiSto
r. 4
S.N
■j£n
:V-
-181#
;«A?v
*S?t
s£i
PT&jpg
OmM
sift
■ :-'s*\s>&£'--3&
■ '-'H'vo'i
f&sS'
Si*
ft?
aS®
(«»£■&
I®
M
IIP»
*£%£p»
gSgrag
3*B*l
y sa
Bel
'
H
€4 r J& r 2Fi
s S
////
IHIJ
«S*s’
«**«**?•;
ss*
N
Wimm
gM
«P
’• '-’XS&XCai
*sz* t>S*t-.i*-v 2a*.
Sift:
s&;
safes
VAG
>
itXs*fcKwrf»
iffil
ipi
gisf^gpiipi
*ussSss@a»>
■£%,
:r&
vs^v*iv*i?
#^ifg§i§
gglggggl
ypsmo
;.{»
•ajaSasagal
sw
■
S?t*'
y /
Cobra,” Sfte Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Does the funny
Goose-step, too.
See the “COBRAS
Stepping back
On the well-barbed
Rerim track.
Several Huns have
Been laid low;
Chunder has their
H ats to show.
It is very
«
Fine to see
“COBRA’S” shining
Victory.


Farmer’s Cask Bonus Sale
COMMENCED JANUARY 2. ENDS JANUARY 20.
This Sale is known the length and breadth of the land as a sale of ABSOLUTELY
GENUINE SEDUCTIONS and a FURTHER BONUS OF 2/- IN THE £ OFF
SALE PRICES ON CASH PURCHASES.
What the lO Per Cent.
Bonus means.
First, we make a genuine Reduction on the Usual
Price. That is “the Sale Price.” And tfien off the
Sale Price is allowed ANOTHER REDUCTION AT
THE RATE OF 2/- in the £ ON ALL CASH
PURCHASES.
Country residents are invited to send for copies of the Sale Catalogue
if they have not already received same. The whole of the depart-
ments are comprehensively covered in this publication, and thousands
of bargains mentioned and illustrated therein. City and suburban
residents may obtain same on personal application.
FARMER'S,
PITT, MARKET and
GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BUCKLEY’S
are now showing a big and exclusive
range of
Fashionable
Sports Coats
In the Very Newest and Most Popu-
lar Styles, which have just come to
hand from the World’s Foremost
Manufacturers.
These Coats are smart enough to
be worn for any occasion, and are
very comfortable.
841171. As illustrated, a remarkably
good value in a loose-fitting Artificial. Silk
Sports Coat. Raglan fitting, with rever collar,
pockets and girdle sash, f-length. Obtainable
in Women’s and Out sizes in the following
shades: —Rose, Saxe, Cream, Grey, Navy, and
Black and White. Usual price, 75/-
Special Price, 09/6
841172. —A very smart Sports Coat in a
plain knit, has set-in sleeves, sailor collar,
pockets and girdle sash. Obtainable in Small
Women’s and Women’s sizes in the following
colors:—Rose, Grey, Navy, Nigger, Cream and
Black. Usual Price, 63/-
Special Price, 55/-
841173. A heavyweight knitted Silk
Sports Coat in the new block stripe effect.
Has sailor collar, pockets and girdle sash,
obtainable in Navy and White, Black and
White, Rose and Nigger, Brown and Biscuit,
Grey and Rose, Saxe and Grey, and Saxe and
White. There are sizes to fit all figures.
Usually £4/19/6.
Special Price, 84/-
841174. The very newest idea —a full,
easy-fitting pure Milanese Silk Sports Coat with
Sailor Collar, Cuffs and all-round belt of smart
Black and White Block Stripe Milanese Silk.
Obtainable in the following colors: Emerald,
Purple, White, Gold, Saxe and Spray. Usual
price, £4/10/-
Special Price, 84/-
And Many Others Equally Smart.
Melbourne's Lowest
Prices Always.
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
'Melbourne, January 1, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
When the war began, Stanley Collier
dropped his course at the Uni. and enlisted.
As a lieutenant he was laid low in Meso-
potamia, invalided home and nursed for
several months in the hospital at Roseneath
(Tas.). Not to waste any time, while still
ill he took to his books again and at the Uni.
exam, the other day passed in his second
year Arts. A man of that calibre takes a lot
of stopping.
Alfred Rutter, a Melbourne scientist
whose process for sterilising milk has been
put to severe tests at the University bacterio-
logical laboratory and has survived them, is
going on with another idea which may mean
a lot to the babies of the Commonwealth.
It is the creation from cow’s-milk of a baby-
food, germless and allegedly having, in
chemical composition and physical constitu-
tion, a character almost identical with
mother’s-milk. Rutter’s scientific record and
especially his doings with calves’ food have
evidently given him a solid standing among
men of affairs, for a group of wealthy Mel-
bournites to whom hard cash and a safe •
profit are first considerations have backed
him to carry his scheme through.
Edward Pescott, horticulture-expert to the
Victorian Government, who every now and
then is obliged to come forth from the shade
of the old State apple-tree and bow his
acknowledgments for some mark of public
esteem, has once more had a free advt.
thrust upon him. A species of native bird-
orchid, new to science, has been discovered
in Victoria, and the Plant Names Commit-
tee has called it Ghiloglottis pescottiana. It
is a signal honor, of course—though the
Victorian kid will continue to call the flower
Yeller-nose, as before. The new species, by
the way, was found in the Tallangatta dis-
trict, through which the Mitta Mitta flows
down to the Murray from the high wilds—
the region whither Sentimental J. Dennis
lately retired to devote himself to the fur-
ther ‘ pursuit of litritchoor and something
new in Blokes.
May Riley, daughter of the Melbourne
bandmaster, has joined J. Bull’s army of
munitioners. The damsel went to England
in September, and, after six weeks’ special
training, was given a seat in a munition
shop. ' She mentions that every grade of
society is being thoroughly toothcombed for
munition labor. Lady Mary Hamilton is
toiling in the same shop as May Riley, and
living a life that would make her butler
swoon with horror. The noble person has
to wear blue overalls, munch her tucker at a
deal table, and absorb her tea from a
degraded tin mug—all for about 30 shillings
a week! All sorts, however, are cheerfully
accepting the conditions. A while ago the
luscious chorus of a revue co., doing a week
in a munition centre, deserted in a body and
took on cartridge-filling at a humiliating
decimal of their former screws. When the
news of their enlistment reached head-
quarters in London, the authorities had to
hobble various officers who had suddenly dis-
covered urgent public business in that
locality.
The Mina Moore-Tainsh wedding at Scots’
Church last week was an extremely subdued
affair. The hero was attended by a second,
but the bride, without hat or veil, and
dressed simply in a lace frock with pink
appointments, gave herself away in a most
independent manner. She and her hubby
are now honeymooning at Airey’s Inlet. On
their return to Melbourne they will set about
building a house at Ivanhoe.
Mrs. Sprigg, wife of the ex-sec. of the
Tramway Co., died last week. The deceased
lady, who had lived in Victoria for over half
a century, was a native of Cardiff, and was
patriotically Welsh throughout her long life.
Like W. M. Hughes and Lloyd George, she
considered the Welsh the greatest people
that this old earth grows, and their language
the finest noise ever made by the human
tongue.
Little Sumner Locke’s marriage sets a
friend of the family talking:—
None of the talent that Sumner Locke and her
many sisters inherited* from their parents (now
deceased) has taken a musical turn, strange to say.
Locke paterfamilias, a Church of England parson,
married to another English clergyman’s daughter,
was a wayward man of culture who seemed most
“divine” when he sat down to the piano. He was a
soulful amateur musician, with a pretty taste in
improvisation'. The girls would probably have taken
after Dad in that respect had he prospered as a
shepherd. But he was not the sort that runs smoothly
in a groove. He started with the disadvantage of an
artistic temperament, anyhow, and just when he
should have been making a rise in clerical life he
fell foul of his bishop—old Field Flowers Goe.
Thenceforth the struggling parson became obsessed
with his grievance. There is a tradition of how,
taking the pulpit at a fashionable South Yarra taber-
nacle whilst the vicar was on holiday, he preached
a sermon on the shabby treatment he had suffered
from Goe aforesaid. Doubtless the congregation sym-
pathised with the railing shepherd, for Goe was a
hard, evangelical bishop with “a d —d disinheriting
countenance” —a face that had made many a baby
howl at its christening. But it queered the
preacher’s church prospects finally.
Ettore Cadorin, husband of Bendigo
songstress Erna Mueller, is responsible for
the statue that rests on top of the church
that Father Robinson built at Camberwell.
This is the first sign of Cadorin for many
months, but it is understood that he will
come to Australia via America pretty soon.
The latest list of wounded includes the
name of Captain Victor Lansell, son of
Bendigo’s departed king. Mrs. Victor is
still in Bendigo cabling for further parti-
culars.
Mrs. Seaton Williams went to spend
Christmas ’midst the gum trees at Mitcham
and hoped to escape the minor trials of
country life by taking a truckload of
menials along with her. But the atmo-
sphere so demoralised the staff that
she herself had to go in person to the local
store to buy the tinned meats. Can you
imagine the Queen of Sheba going to the
butcher’s, or Cleopatra attending at the
grocer’s with a string bag? If you can’t
. then this story is wasted on you.
Some satirical “Hints for War Brides”
in a new English gift-book give an idea
how the Australian girl is getting left just
now. Her British rival is instructed to
“take one large soldier —preferably Canadian
or Australian, as they are much more tract-
able —smile sweetly until he blushes with
confusion, then seize him by the elbow and
guide him gently but firmly home to tea.”
Then he is to be tied up and hypnotised
and the marriage-service read over him to
the “Wilt thou have this woman?” point.
Papa will whisper in his ear “Will-you-have-
a-drink?” and on the victim eagerly exclaim-
ing “I will” the minister will continue, the
service. After untying him, the rest of the
family will retire. Wildly exaggerated, of
course; but it was written in England by a
Canadian soldier, and how did he get the
idea?
Women seem to have plenty of money to
spend on their little selves. The Alexandra
Clubites have .taken on a Collins-street build-
ing which is costing £2OOO to renovate; and
now the Quamby (or “Sour Grapes”) is
trying to float itself into a company, Ger-
trude Rennie having tired of single owner-
ship.
By the way, the all-prevailing bunny-wrap
is now styled the “Blood Coat” by cynical
Billjims, on the ground that the soldier’s
best girl gets the covering out of the price
of active service. In other circles the luxury
is known as the “Wages of Sin.”
Hilda Stevens, daughter of the energetic
doctor, has published a small volume of
verse. It’s a family affliction. Brother Alec
has a couple of volumes to his account.
Esther Fairbairn of the titian locks, who
had some nursing experience in St. Vincent’s
and then went to London to do war work
at a soldiers’ rest home, sends word that she
has orange blossoms in view. The bride-
groom-elect is Colonel Leonard Wheatley,
D. 5.0., a Highlander who once toiled
as a genthelp in this State with the late
Governor Fuller. The Fairbairn parents
will perhaps shut down their South Yarra
flat and go off to England to give their child
away to her soldier, who, it seems, is safely
billeted in the War Office, where there is
no fear of losing a head or a leg or a
wing before the wedding-day.
From “Rosna” in London:—
Mary Grant Bruce, the Gippsland girl, dodged the
submarines the other day and ran over from Cork,
where her major-half is training Tommies. A bonny
infant with curls all over his head and a truly Aus-
tralian grin, came with her. Her new book, “Jim
and Wally,” jumped into a second edition in a few
weeks; and she has a further volume on the way.
Miss Myrtle McMeekin, who came in on the Oster-
ley from Mortlake (Vic.) this week, was duly and
speedily knotted to her Captain Frank Robinson
Kerr, at Hampstead. Dr. Eric Kerr, the bridegroom’s
brother, gave the maiden away. Afterwards the pair
rushed off to look at Oxford, where Captain Kerr
was a Rhodes scholar before he took to chasing the
Huns and winning his D.S.O.
There were Australian parties all over London to
see the new Lord Mayor and his minions ride through
the city in their gilded chariots on Lord Mayor’s
Day. The Union Bank and the Bank of Adelaide
stopped juggling with cheques and invited hordes of
’Roo-landers to come and gaze at the show through
their windows. Also there was lunch for the hungry,
and plenty of wounded Anzacs among the guests. All
the Government offices in the Strand had tea-parties,
and in each case loads of the State’s own wounded
warriors were deposited on the premises and given
the place of honor. Wild coo-ees burst from these
windows as the Australian slice of the procession
went by; but the slice in question was on its best
behavior and refused to blink an eye.
Margaret Palmer, whose sterner parent used to be
Engineer-in-Chief of Westralia, and now oils the
Indian Public Works or something, was wedded in
this village the other day to Dr. William Burt, now
mending Tommies in the R.A.M.C.
Stella Power starred at the,Theatre Royal
Concert on Christmas night in white silk
flounces with a laurel leaf binding her dark
locks. She is a bright young Miss who looks
as if she could get to the top of the tree and
collect the money that grows there. But I
wish she would forget the startling trick
she has of lifting her dark blue eyes until
nothing is left in view but the whites. Other-
wise her stage manner and alluring smile
deserve the Order of Merit. Claude Schilling
shook himself furiously while demanding in
song, “Why do the nations so furiously rage
together?” But the young girls present re-
pented of their giggles when his silvery tenor
warbled tenderly “She is far from the land”
as an encore.
Adelaide’s harvest:—
The Port Adelaide races drew a big crowd, in
khaki and otherwise, to Cheltenham on Saturday and
Tuesday. Thirty-one thousand pounds passed through
the totalisator, so that soup tickets are not visible
yet. On Boxing Day the Goolwa Regatta, with
hydroplane racing, and swimming sports at Mount
Pleasant, led us astray. Mr. R. T. Melrose was
mainly responsible for the swims, which were held at
his Wangara farm, near the Mount. Proceeds were
for the Y.M.C.A. war fund, and our hard-working
Christian brothers are well pleased with the count-
up.
The holidays and a heat wave have completed the
exodus from town. The Fred Porters have gone for
a five-weeks’ trip to Ballarat, and Dr. J. A. G.
Hamilton has migrated to Westralia. Seaside hotels
are stuffed to the coal-cellar, and all the Mt. Lofty
and Aldgate dust-sheets are put away in the cup-
board.
The Cheer-Up Society took under its kindly wing
the soldiers who could not get home for Christmas,
and sent something special in the way of dinner to
the camp. Also lunch, dinner and a Christmas tree
were provided at the Hut; 4Off or sffo men will
vouch for that. The Hut, by the way, nearly came
to grief on Saturday night, when a mysterious fire
was discovered smouldering amongst some papers on
the balcony. The Hut is mainly asbestos sheets, but
it has a wooden framework, and the Christmas
arrangements would have collapsed disastrously if the
blaze hadn’t been discovered in time to be summarily
arrested.
Mr. R. J. Hawkes was farewelled by the executive
committee of the Soldiers’ Fund at lunch a£ the
South Australian Hotel on Wednesday. The entertain-
ment was steered by ex-Mayor A. A. Simpson, who
returned the day before from a trip to Melbourne.
His journey included an aeroplane flight in its inci-
dents.
The Port Adelaide City Council is up against a
claim for Is. lodged by an indignant medico who
complains that the disgraceful state of the Port
roads bounced his watch from his pocket against his
motor-car’s steering-wheel, to the complete destruc-
tion of the timepiece’s face-glass. The demand has
been solemnly referred to the finance committee. If
the doctor’s claim is sustained local bodies responsible
for the roads in their jurisdictions will find them-
selves on the high road to insolvency.
Mr. Ligertwood, who has been Acting-Master of
the Supreme Court for 16 months while the Master,
Major W. L. Stuart, has been on military duty as
camp-commandant at Mitcham, is going into private
practice owing to Major Stuart having resumed his
job. A farewell the other afternoon gave the officers
of the court an opportunity of wishing the auxiliary
good luck and handing him a presentation.
Lance-Corporal G. C. Davies has been credited with
the Military Medal. He was the second son of Dr.
Harold Davies, and was killed in the Big Push lead-
ing to the victory of the Somme.
English girls imported for the panto, are
struck with admiration at the graceful pre-
cocity of Australian infants. VThe children
are wonderful,” says Gretchen Yates, fresh
from London. Their teachableness, their
ready-witted response to the ideas of Miss
Everett, amazes the newcomers. And the
youngsters never weary of their work. The
rehearsals that are tasks to the grown-ups
are sport to the small fry and early-flappers.
Joy of life in English kiddies is discounted
by growing pains and anaemic languor, but
the youngsters bred in Melbourne have vital-
ity to burn. The extra vigor, alertness and
good humor are set down as the natural
results of meat and sunshine.
Willie Kelly has a new motah-cah, painted
the color of a stagnant pool and fitted with
dinky spokeless wheels. They, are solid discs
like those you see on some wheeled toys.
Willie is frankly proud of the fact that he
is among the first to get one off Fortune’s
Christmas tree.
Official methods of observing and checking
the enemy in our midst are purely Gil-
bertiau. A woman artist, after doing a
portrait of a child of mixed parentage
(brought along to her studio by the Aus-
tralian mother), was confronted by two stern
military detectives. “You have been holding
enemy meetings here!” chorused the pair
importantly, and waited for her trembling
confession. The poor artist managed to
establish her innocence, and the invaders
strolled off to worry somebody else.
Gretchen Yates, the pretty girl who plays
Princess in this year’s panto., graduated with
Courtneidge’s company at ' the London
Shaftesbury, and had a little part in “My
Lady Frayle” when he produced it a few
months ago. She comes of a stock which
mixes grease-paint and ink. Miss Gretclien’s
father’s father was the late Edmund Yates,
longtime boss of the World, a novelist in
his younger days and the cause of the
estrangement between Dickens and Thack-
eray. The “smart” journalism of 50 years
ago must have got its inspiration from the
footlights. Edmund Yates had a mummer
ancestry. George Augustus Sala’s mother
and grandmother were actresses, and
“G.A.S.” started life as a scene-painter.
Henry Labouchere, the M.P. who ran the
original Truth, married an actress and had
his dash as a theatrical speculator. Strangely
enough, not one of the trio made any sort of
hit as any sort of dramatist.
Some of the get-ups at the first night of
the panto, were truly wonderful. One d.c.
female had plundered two feather-dusters
and the Christmas poultry to provide the
material for her imitation Sioux head-dress.
Another charmer, who brought something
young and innocent as her powder-monkey,
wore an animal skin over one shoulder like
a Kaffiir kaross. But the latest thing out
was the upper portion of a damsel whose
waistbelt and corsage were interchangeable
terms, and flimsy shoulder-straps merely
kept up appearances.
Half the local peerage hurried out of
town to eat plum-pudding at seaside or
mountain refuges, not because they wanted
to join the crowds but because Mary Annette
and her mates were having a spell off for
Christmas frivols. When Mary lets go the
whole domestic world seems to fall in ruins.
The Bowes Kelly tribe have done the
annual shift to their Tasmanian sheep acres,
leaving grandmother and auntie Isabel
Millar to keep the moths out of their Mal-
vern mansion. Lieutenant Moncton, the
elder son, is now back in the trenches after
a spell in hospital with a wounded arm.
Warrnamhool started a decentralisation
league a while ago. It got a real live secre-
trary, and was going to make the old potato
town boom and cut Melbourne’s claws. The
other day I asked a visiting citizen what
had become of the movement. “Oh,” he said,
“the secretary shifted to Melbourne, and
then the thing busted up !”
Jessie Masson, one of our most conspicu-
ous pianists, lately headed for Maoriland in
the company of Elsie Treweelt, the dark-
haired soprano, flautist Amadio, and Max
Selinsky, the Russian fiddler. The party
are taking a bale of classical and modern
tunes, and threaten fo pour their best into
the Dominion’s ear during an eight weeks’
tour.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Kt
4
V
h
as
h}
X
b
<
w
£
,ri
A
&
mm
4-
*
r.
o
o
0
.J
nuns-
4S
Mb.
The Sun never sets (so ’tis said) on
the British Flag, and the same
claim may with truth be made for
Goodyear Ty res.
In the tropic heat of Egypt as in
the snow-bound lands ol Canada,
No other tvre made has such world-
J
wide fame and none gives greater
universal satisfaction.
Motorists throughout Australia,
North, South, East and West, all
appreciate the long-wearing, big-
mileage capacity of Goodyear Tyres.
in India’s sunny clime
and beneath the cold,
clear stars of the
Southern Cross, Good-
years give sterling ser-
j O o
vice everywhere.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE & RUBBER
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Head Office —231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies in all Principal Cities.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
That fact is more than
proved by the rapidly-
inc r easing sales of
Goodyears wherever
motors are to be
found.
Goodyear Tyres, Tubes, Belting, Hose, Packing, etc.,
are now obtainable throughout Australia and A.Z.


dfg
f
Support the Motherland's Industries
—and your own Country’s Products
** - 9>
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are manufactured from pure Australasian wool —
in Leicester, England, by workpeople who have
inherited the art from generations of the world’s
best hosiery makers.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co.. Leicester. Eng. „
Aa 60
£
w
gdf
The'TOP-NOTCH'Scotch
V>. '£o Say WHEN M an!!
>*9l.
I
s*r
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
Two Seas” : There seems to be a diversity
of opinion as to the jumping powers of the ’roo. As
one who has shot and snared as many of this wild
fowl as the next man, pass me the kip. Someone
entered a flier with a record of 31ft. “Pick” intro-
duces a methodical old plugger who covered 27ft.
“with undeviating regularity”—evidently trained by
a surveyor with an eye for cheap labor. Then “Hay”
weighs in with a badly-trained heavyweight that
crashed into a five-wire fence instead of clearing
it, and, incidentally, broke all the wires, uprooted
a post and removed the landscape—a proceeding that
suggests an enraged elephant hurrying to catch the
last boat to Manly after the barrier is closed.
“Hay” gives 19ft. as a fair average hop, and believes
that, when playing, the ’roo can leap as many feet
in the air as he can jump on the level. That being
so, how can we account for the fact that so many of
the tribe are found hanging with their hind legs
twisted in the two top wires of a fence? One would
think that when going for their lives they would
clear the top wire, say 3ft. Bin., in their stride if
they could uplift themselves 19ft. for a joke. I have
assisted in erecting wings and yards for ’roo drives,
hut have never seen the fences put up as high as a
telegraph-line. My experience leads me to believe
that the ’roo is not a natural jumper. Except when
he is startled or closely pressed in a chase, he
prefers crawling under the bottom wire to jumping
the top one. I have caught hundreds by hanging
wire-snares over the tracks they scratch under the
fences. I never happened to be carrying a tape-
measure when ’roo hunting, so can’t say how many
.\ards they took in a stride on the level; but I
doubt if it ever exceeded six. Up hill they declined
to tiavel at all, though down hill they can fall a
long way without striking the ground. But I’ve
done that myself when I wasn’t a trier. One thing
I haven’t seen mentioned is the extraordinary brittle-
ness of the roo s bones. Often when a mob has been
startled by a shot I have seen one break its leg in
the hurry to get off the mark quickly when the
old man on watch banged his tail on the ground
as a signal to start. His tail, by the way, is always
stuck straight out when he is sitting on guard ; yet
on at least one coat of arms exhibited in Sydney our
national freak is represented with his tail curled
aiourid his toes like that of Souter's cynical Tom.
* * * *
“McNorth” : The worst pastime I know of
is ti avelling per boot along the endless beaches of
the Gulf of Papua. There is not a particle of shade,
and the sun always seems to stoke up a bit extra
when it has a mere white at its mercy. An ever-
lasting curve of beach stretches ahead, and the hot
and weary traveller is certain that the next point is
his destination. When he reaches it he finds another
and yet another indentation stretching ahead into
the distance. As the day goes on the continual
movement of the sea alongside gets on his nerves,
and the beach seems to dance and sway about under-
foot. Occasionally a village heaves in sight, and a
native steps out with a karu (drinking cocoanut)
ready opened. The traveller, tired to death of the
eternal cocoanut juice, and thinking of cool streams
of running mountain water, and of the long, foam-
ing beers he had refused at Port Moresby, gargles
the half-sweet stuff and hurries on. Sometimes he
goes up from the beach and sits in the shade of
some bushes to await his straggling team of
carriers. Though some of them may be carrying
nothing heavier than a frying-pan or billycan they
never seem to be able to keep up with a white man.
When, at last, he reaches his night’s camp, usually
at a village, he scoffs a miserable meal that comes
mostly out of a tin, crawls beneath a mosquito-net,
and sleeps fitfully to the accompaniment of the shrill
yelps of a herd of degraded village mongrels and the
animated conversation of some natives under the
house. At daylight he boots his niggers into action,
and the previous day’s misery starts all over again.
It’s great fun.
* * * *
“Tiaki”: November is the season of
poisoned honey in Maoriland. The busy insect which
gathers flower-juice fails to note that the wharangi
or rangiora is as venomous as the breath of slander.
The white blossom carries a heavenly odor like unto
the cool cellars of a brewery or a refrigerated tub
of the balm of Gilead ; but many a bushman has
felt his skin cracking when he has been gassed by
whiffs of rangiora. Also, the leaves send any horse
which eats them into a state of riotous behavior.
Best plan is to lead the nag around or smoke his
nose with something like burnt feathers. As to
men, though mere sniffing isn’t fatal, I have known
several individuals who have passed in their checks
after a banquet on the bush honey of the rangiora
season.
EXERCISING HIS AUTHORITY.
“No, I love Jack. But Ell always be a sister to you!”
“Then, as your elder brother, I forbid you to have anything to do with Jack.”
THE CONQUEROR.
PARISH WORKER: Ah, Mrs. McGinty, industrious as usual! I'm afraid that you're too
good for that drunken husband of yours."
MRS. McGINTY : “Too good for him! Sure I am that, an’ it's McGinty that knows it!"
It used to be the wolf that borrowed the
sheep s clothing now it s the snake. One of the
butchers at the freezing works near Forbes (N.S.W.)
got hold of a big woolly jumbuck lately and was
half-way through with the murder when a vicious
ut+io , , , . ~ „
little snake, bounced out of the fleece. When it
reads of this, the next shearers’ log will demand
that all sheep be searched for reptiles before being
penned.
“Tas”: Gordon River, Tassy’s largest
stream, flows through almost virgin wilderness to
Macquarie Harbor. It is a century now since Kelly
and his four white men —the first seen there —
rowed their whaleboat upstream. He noted the
abundant Huon pine, and his brig Sophia took the
first cargo thence to Hobart in 1816. Many mil-
lions of feet have since been floated down the Gor-
don and King, but a few timber-getting families
are still the only dwellers. The price is higher
than ever, but nearly all the accessible stuff has
been cut. The piners formerly went nearly 100
miles up the Gordon, disregarding its rapids. There
is much West Coast pine yet, but it is further
north, towards Zeehan. The custom has been to
roll the logs to little creeks and wait for a fresh
to send them down river, to be rafted at convenient
spots. A good deal of cut pin.- never got its fresh,
and there it stays. Horses and bullocks have not
been used. Rain falls nearly every day for eight
months in the year, and is frequent during the
brief summer. Plenty of fish, but little game.
Milder even than the Gordon country is that round
Port Davey to the south-west. Pine grows in nar-
row belts along the streams, and the rugged country
is lashed almost incessantly by westerly gales from
an ocean without a break to Patagonia. Throw
another log on the fire!
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The algarroba tree is
an old friend of mine, and I have met several mem-
bers of the family in South America, some of them
petrified. The red algarroba ( Prosopis panta ) is a
small, bushy tree. The timber is hard, a kind of
orange color, and is used occasionally for cabinet
work. The seed-pod is eatable in its natural state,
and when fermented makes a diuretic and palatable
booze. The white algarroba ( Prosopis alba ) grows
much larger than the red. The wood is strong, light
and of a reddish-yellow color, showing very hand-
some grain and markings, and burns like dry white
box. It bears large quantities of an exceedingly
sweet pale-yellow fruit, which is a favorite article of
food with the Indians, and they run their jags and
dreadfully immoral saturnalias on a liquor called
aloja made from it. The black algarroba ( Prosopis
nigra ) attains about the same dimensions as the
white. Its timber is much darker in color, stronger
and heavier. It is also very gummy or resinous, and
the same kind of calamity-pop is extracted from its
fruit. Algarrobillo ( Prosopis liumilis) is a small,
scrubby variety resembling sticks of prickly acacia,
growing in bunches with thorns about an
inch long distributed on the stems at in-
tervals of about two inches. This plant
flourishes in places where the only moisture avail-
able is that which it extracts from the atmosphere.
All algarroba products except the wood make good
stock fodder, and the Indians produce a kind of bread
or johnny-cake called 'patay from the seed-pods or
fruit. Prom certain abstruse calculations I have
made on the subject 1 think it takes this vegetable
about 1000 years to develop into anything worth
considering.
(Continued on page 24 .)
IRONBARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s a very thirsty spot,
Always somnolent and hot —•
Ironbark.
It suffers from the drought,
And the quadrupeds about
Look as if they’d just come out
Of the ark.
A dusty road winds by,
And the creek is mostly dry
When you pass ;
The earth is cracked and bare,
Though you’ll notice, here and there,
Wisps of straw the worse for wear —
That’s the grass.
The local brand of beer,
Brown she-oak, is somewhat dear;
But it serves
To drown the town’s regret
For the ample lack of wet,
That in time is apt to get
On its nerves.
The whole place seems a-drowse—
Cats, humans, fowls and cows
Are inert;
While a dog with wistful eyes
In the empty horse-trough lies.
Only tireless ants and flies
Make a spurt.
Weary rabbits creekward lope
From the bracken on the slope,
Full of doubt
Of this truce of friends and foes;
And dejected birds in rows
On the paling fence, repose,
Tired out.
A horse against the rail
Whisks the flies, with languid tail,
When they gall;
He is spavined, old and spare,
But he yet contrives to wear
Quite a philosophic air
Through it all.
But the sun to westward rides,
And his wilting glare subsides
As he dips
To his sullen, sultry bed,
With a parting shaft of red
Which the trees catch, overhead,
At their tips.
Then a world more gently hewn,
Under wide skies, star-bestrewn,
Still, and dark—
Or,, when the moon glides bright,
Lit with a tempered light—
Is yours with the fragrant night,
Ironbark!
Then leaves exhale their scent
And night-winds sigh content,
And the dew
Refills the cups of gold
That thirsty plants uphold,
And bids their blooms unfold
And renew;
When, like a Wind of Ease
Blown through the rustling trees,
You shall mark
This as a sweetened lot,
Changed to a pleasant spot—
No longer dry and hot
Ironbark !
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


David Jones’
Guinea
“Orient” Panama
Made in Ecuador (South
America) of the real native
palm-leaf fibre; a genuine hand-
plait, guaranteed not to crack
with ordinary wear. Pitted
s w e a t-p roof head leather,
trimmed black silk band, 21/-
Other Panamas at 12/6, 17/6,
30/-, 35/-, 50/-
's
y
S
\
WE PAY.
a A RRIAC4E
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0., Sydney.
“Nothing” Suits, “Tussora” Shirts and
Panama Hats —at The LEVIATHAN.
“Nothing” Suits are cool as Ocean Ereezes. Tbey l^j^jg^jSn^taUored
cotton Tnssoret*, which do
not shrink, but rather improve, with washing and
ironing. They can be had in plain or white stripecl
designs in Biscuit, Straw and Stone shades. \N ea
a “Nothing” Suit and enjoy Summer comtort.
Ready-to-wear.
Made to
measure.
“Nothing” Suits
(3 garments)
Coat & Trousers
(2 garments)
Trousers only
27/6 37/6
25/- 35/-
9/6 11/6
(Suits measuring over 42-inch Chest, 2/6
extra.)
Write for Free Patterns of
tt Nothing ” Suitings and
“ Tussora ” Shirtings.
“TUSSORA” SHIRTS. —Let us make you some
“Tussora” Shirts to wear with the “Nothing Suit.
“Tussora” looks just like Tussore Silk—but it
wears better by far, and retains its silky lustre
after repeated washing.
Can be had with unshrinkable neck-bands, and
soft double cuffs, or plain wrist-bands to button.
You have your choice of three collar styles
Detachable Tennis; Detachable Double; o
Attached Tennis Collar. Shirts have ‘ split sleeves
and sleeve-length adjusters. 6/11
(With Collar to match). 1 1
PANAMA HATS.— We have a large and
carefully-selected stock of these cool Summer Hats
in various shapes—with narrow and wide brims.
State size and width of brim when ordering.
JAPANESE PANAMAS. —Extra light weight,
2|-inch brims, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
WHITE BLEACHED TOYO PANAMAS —
15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
REAL NATIVE PANAMAS. —Made in South
America, can be folded without crushing -
25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 33/-
A
I
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
ORDER BY POST.
ASK FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
THe Greatest Ensiine Value
m
'S
• -»
irv Australia
The COOPER Engine
is known throughout the length and breadth of Australia for
its great wearing qualities, its good, substantial power, and
its ease of operation.
Many of them have been in use for 10 years and cost less than ten
shillings for repairs. Both the material and workmanship throughout are
the best that money can produce. This sterling quality of construction
and efficiency has created a demand for Cooper Engines that enables us to
produce and deliver them to yon at a price at least 25 per cent, less than
any other engine in the same class.
This 4-Brake Horse-power Cooper at £BO is an example of the wonder-
ful combination of “Quality and Price” we can offer you. It is powerfully
constructed, fitted with fuel pumps, built-in magneto, and the highest
quality attachments. Cylinder and valve chambers have ample water-
jackets, and the large water-tank keeps it cool in any climate. Anyone
can start and run it without difficulty.
It is unconditionally guaranteed to give satisfaction. If you requiie an
engine, write us full particulars of your work, and we will quote you an
outfit to suit your requirements.
r'OOPER ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED
134 Sussex Street, Sydney, 456 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Australasian Implement and House Furnishing Company, Adelaide, S.A.


m
vs
:ggitts
PNSEEDOIIMBII
MEGGITT II? IF %
\ PARRAMATTA M «■«♦*
FARMERS!
Feed your
MILKERS,
CALVES,
PIGS,
HORSES,
POULTRY,
on one ration per
day of
MEGGITTS
Linseed Oil
Meal.
Full particulars write
Meggitt Ltd.
Parramatta,
New South Wales.
“It is ill arguing with a hungry man,” says the
old proverb. But it is worse playing tricks with a
sick one. When the doctor orders brandy he means
real good stuff—the best.” Give the patient
Martell’s, and both he and his doctor will be-
satisfied. Being rich in the higher ethers it is
unequalled in case of sickness.
Besides, it is perfect for social purposes.
MARTELL’S BRANDY
OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715. [3
THE. GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
rfAlUjg
49
& RHEUMATIC PILES.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Front & Co.. 22!) Strand. London.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Recipe to Darken Grey Hair
This Home-made Mixture Darkens Grey
Hair and Relieves Dandruff.
To a half-pint of water add :
Bay Rum loz.
Orlex Compound a small box
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used.
A half-pint should be enough to darken
the grey hair and relieve dandruff. It does
not stain the scalp, is not sticky or greasy
and does not rub off. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy.— Advt. [4
ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
CHRISTIE^
JSf£CIAUS£
TWO
l/A/ES
10
S
u#
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/>no
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
SC /IOMTER ST NEWCASTLE
1
“R.E.”: If “Aneb” (B. 2/11/16) is still
inquiring how to use carbon for rabbits tell him to
get a. machine if he has much to do. It will run to
about a fiver, and will save its cost in no time. If
he intends to do the cottonwaste-and-stiek act let
him try this way. Open the drum of carbon, get a
kerosene syphon, fill the syphon with water and put
it into the drum. Draw off about a quart into a
billy, fill the drum up with water and keep full. He
can leave the syphon in it as long as he has water
on top. Put about a cup of water in the billy.
I his will prevent evaporation. To use, plunge the
rag on the stick through the water to the bottom of
the billy, and then push the rag as far down the
burrow as he can. Cover the hole quickly and tread
down hard. If the soil .is heavy and the burrows
deep it does not matter what time he gets to work,
but in light, sandy soils the fumes will work through
unless ground is wet. The reason for lighting- is
to make a smoke so as to be able to see any small
holes that otherwise would be missed. The machines
make a smoke as well as pump carbon. Did “Aneb”
ever try paper ? Get a good big wad of war-lies, dig
the burrow back to solid ground, ram the lies down
the burrow’s throat as far as possible with the end
of shovel and fill with earth. Spread a sheet of
paper on top, and half-cover with earth. This will
keep the visiting bunny from calling. If the ground
has been trapped over, this is one of the best things
going. Watch the burrows closely, and if one of
them is opened from inside get the dogs, wife and
gun and hunt for his nibs, as he will not go back
into the burrow again.
* * * *
‘‘Leo Lear”: In his description of the
pheasant-coueal and his habits, “Wandi” (B.
23/11/’l6) leaves out the most interesting point
about the unique Northern Australian bird. It is a
true cuckoo, one of the largest of the clan, and yet
brings up its own family in its own nest. And
whereas all other cuckoos are migrating, this fellow
is stationary, or nearly so.
“Silas Snell” : This is the tale of a lady
on the land. She was a farmer’s daughter in York-
shire, and coming to Australia had always an itch to
have a try at inducing the wilderness to blossom. Her
opportunity came when her husband went to the war,
and was hit by something from Krupp’s.' Mrs.
Wheeler bought 300 acres at Blowhard, and got right
down to business. On the second day after entering
into possession she saw a tallish, hard-baked, be-
whiskered stranger in his shirt-sleeves slouch into the
yard, slouch round a bit, then slouch to the kitchen-
door. He leaned there. “Mornin’, Missus,” he said.
“Jist called neighborly t‘ say you was welcome t’
Blowhard. Name’s Bigger, Missus. Live over the
’ill. Anythin’ I kin do, d’yeh think?” Mrs. Wheeler
thanked Mr. Bigger, but she was managing very well.
Bigger moved away, then came back. “You’d like a bit
iv blackfish,” he said. He went away. Half an hour
or so later he returned, went through the same pre-
amble, and said: “Me name’s Bigger. We’re neigh-
bors. Thought if you was needin’ ’elp I might lend a
hand.” “No, thank you, Mr. Bigger. I am doing
very well.” “So-long, then,” said Bigger. But he
turned at the gate. “I’ll git yeh a bit iv blackfish,”
he said. In the afternoon Mr. Bigger called again.
I heard you was here,” he said. “Me name’s Bigger,
ma’am. Live ’cross the ’ill. Anythin’ I kin do for
yeh at all, I will.” “Really, no, Mr. Bigger; there
is nothing I need.” Bigger turned away. “I’ll p'r’aps
hook yeh a bit iv blackfish,” he said. At four o’clock
Bigger called again; at a quarter past he was back
once more. Practically the same programme on both
occasions. At eight that night Mrs. Cussin, from
down the “crick,” looked in. She found Mrs. Wheeler
in a pitiable condition, facing five large lots of black-
fish on the kitchen table. “They didn’t tell me I
was to live within half a mile of a wretched idiot
when I bought this place,” she said. “It’s a map
named Bigger. He has called five times, offering
help, and he’s brought me five different gifts of black-
fish- He frightened me nearly to death. Heaven
knows what might have happened if I hadn’t humored
him!” At this point Mrs. Wheeler screamed. A
tallish, hard-baked, bewhiskered man had appeared in
the doorway, and was saying, “Evenin’, Missus. My
name’s Bigger.” Mrs. Cussin came to the rescue.
“It s all right, my dear,” she said. “This one’s the
father. They dress alike, the Biggers do, ’n’ look
alike, n act alike, so that even one like me what’s
seen ’em grow up can scarce tell one from the other.
But they ain’t mad. The fact is, there’s really five of
’em, two twins and a single.”
“Leo Lear”: “Dead. Finish” (B.
30/11/’l6) hasn’t unearthed all the aliases of treacle
in the bush. Some years ago 1 went into a store in
Biggenden (Q.) and asked for a 21b. tin of treacle.
•‘Oh, we call it fly bog,” said the missus behind the
counter.
* * * *
“Stapleton”: Twenty years ago, when I
went to school, one thing firmly impressed upon me
was that all Australian trees are evergreen, shedding
their bark but not their leaves periodically. But in
the N.T., during July and August, nearly all trees
shed their leaves, and a photo, of the N.T. during
those months might better represent winter in Eng-
land than in Australia. The majority of the trees
are then absolutely bare, only pandanus and paper-
barks retaining their verdure.
* * * *
“Block 10”: Once saw an old-age pen-
sioner west o’ sunset going below in a coffin made
from a kerosene case which displayed the following:
“150° fire test.” I never heard whether he benefited
much. ’
FROM BUNGLEDO TO BERLIN.
BONY: Seen this article on old Kaiser in the Banner? By Cripes, he WILL go crook
when he reads it.”
OUTRAGED FRIENDSHIP.
MR. ROSENRAUM: “Mr Hockheimer, I failedt in peesness to-day, and I rent to release
you from your engagement mit mein taughter.”
MR. HOCKHEIMER (an angry Hockheimer): “ Dot’s it! Dot’s it! Dot vos schoost like
some hcoples. Soon as dey strikes luck dey rent to gif deir old friendts der coldt
shoulder.”
“Wart” : Can any Abo-fisherman identify
one for me? In 20 years’ fishing this is the first
time I have caught it, and it worries me. It came
out of quite fresh water, in the North Esk, near
Launceston (Tas.), with my hook and a common
worm in its gullet. Place, just above the tidal
influence. The prisoner was six inches long, light
grey, large head tapering down to a small tail;
in fact, it was so very like a flathead that if you
placed it in a box with a dozen small ’uns of the
latter breed you would need to look twice to pick it
out again. Good to eat, flesh white and sweet, not
quite so firm as flathead. Can a fish like a flat-
head live for a time in fresh water, or is there a
species of fresh-water flat ?
“Hay” : One of the quaintest birds I have
ever met is the cat-faced owl, which I think must
be the largest of the owl family. I have only seen
his queer-looking dial away in the far interior. Binghi
calls him “tandooka meeki,” meaning devil’s eye.
His body is darkish grey, and his broad, round face
is surrounded by a deep frill of snowy whiskers,
lie nas a. thick, hooked beak, and a pair of eyes
like small motor lamps. He makes his nest (if it
can be called a nest) in a hollow tree. I inspected
one and had to beat a hurried retreat. It looked
as if Mi. and Mrs. Catface had collected gohannas,
lizards and rats for many months before my visit.
Several small owls reposed comfortably in the
midst of the garbage, but I didn’t stop to count
them. In the daytime they retire to dark places
such as caves and hollow trees. Being inquisitive
and not at all timid, it is common at night to
see one meditating on the tent pole. On one occa-
sion a new arrival Outback bad made his bed under
a tarpaulin thrown over the shafts of a dray. When
he woke in the middle of the night and saw one
of these weird birds gazing solemnly at him from
the end of a shaft, he knew the spirit of Wowser-
ism had sought him out to call him to account for
his past.
“Abe”: Look out till I send along a
team owned and driven by Jim Prowse, Bob Crain
and another. The load was a winch and boiler on a
trolly which had to be shifted from the foot to the
top of the hill at the Great Gibraltar G.M. at
Adelong (N.S.W.) some years back. It took 54
as good bullocks as ever heard pure Australian and
two long days to traverse the round-about four
miles. It was a very wet winter and the outfit on
the trolly was generally just visible like a sub.’s
periscope above the water.
IN THE FAR, FAR WEST.
Making a damper: the only smooth, clean
patch for fifty miles.
THE MISCHIEVOUS WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. R almost generally believed that the excessive
ram with which Victoria has been visited is in some
way due to the tremendous cannon fire in Europe.”
— Melb. paper.
The river broke its banks at Yam,
And spread a waste of water round.
Canoodle was a mighty dam,
And all the world seemed seaward bound.
E’en Murphy’s cow was seen to shift
On with the universal drift.
She was as round as any hull,
Her spars were hoisted In the air,
And Murphy said, with spirit dull:
“Me finest milker, I declare!
But mark you this—jist as before,
Thim fools will go on wid their war!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


cS
ovp
c
£
2
■£3
V
m
©
i
SHIPPING GOLD OUT
OF THE COUNTRY"
Is there any of your gold in this shipment? If you use American
Tyres, that’s the eventual destination of your money — money
that should stay in this Country and help further the industrial
prosperity of Australia. It is not as if there s any gain, or any
need for you to use Imported Tyres. The best wearing, and
the most economical Covers in the Commonwealth to-day are
AUSTRALIAN-MADE WHITE TREAD
DUNLOP
which are used and appreciated by fully half of the Motorists
in Australia, and there are no foreign Covers that approach
them for Quality, Thickness of Rubber, and Strength of Casing,
and none that will give such a low running cost per mile. The
latter is the basis of tyre economy, and in that direction
“DUNLOPS” offer you excellent service—at a Reasonable Cost.
Stocked in Grooved, Three Ribbed, and
Rubber Non-Skid —at all Leading Garages,
<# M M M *
DUNLOP RUBBER QO., All States and N.Z.
LLOYD GEORGE S MESSAGE TO AUSTRALIA:
«We shall need every man we can put in the fieId—EVERY,
POUND that rigid public and private economy can provide.
Sending money to America for Tyres—when high quality Australian
“DUNLOPS” are available—is not the way to help the Empire.


BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, CROUP AND COLDS.
HEARNE’S
iHOSE who have had occasion to take Nearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud," or serious illness may follow.
a
NJ
K
15.
c .Kificjitr-
“ An Excellent
Preparation.”
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at
Sydney, N.s.w.i Wellington, k.z. '
“M.P.A.”: At Colac (Y T ic.) the local pic-
ture show is entirely dependent on a wheezy
old steam plant to produce light for the
movies. The old chap whose job is to keep
the kettle boiling often raises a dreadful
smell in doing so. The other week such a
violent incense pervaded the hall that the
writer went in search of the nuisance and
found the ancient fireman heaping handfuls
of barbers’ clippings on the leaping flames.
The ancient said cocky farmers’ whiskers
brought the pressure up wonderfully, so he
commandeered the barbers’ boxes thereabouts.
Fortunately the local barbers don’t run the
show, otherwise a big-bearded cocky wouldn’t
be safe within ten miles of the town.
“E.T.”: Although Comyns Carr, whose
passing out in England is cabled, wrote many
“commercial” plays alone and in collabora-
tion, he was none the less an apostle of Art
with a big A. Consequently it will not sur-
prise anyone to learn that he died stony-
broke. It is only a. few months ago that the
British Government granted him a Civil List
pension. Carr was connected in his early
days with the Grosvenor Gallery in fashion-
able Bond-street, where the rejecteds of the
Royal Academy and their friends and sym-
pathisers used to exhibit. Afterwards he
was to the fore in the movement that cul-
minated in the opening of the New Gallery
in the centre of Regent-street, which pro-
fessedly was to stand as a rival to the R.A.
lie lived long enough to see it turned into a
picture-show of another kind. The movies
went into the building three or four years
ago, and have been there ever since.
“Ike Pagliacci”: The Fullers, starting
from a waxworks and variety show in M.L.
between 30 and 40 years ago, now run
vaudeville, etc., wherever vaudeville can be
run in Australia, and they have tried to
run it in places where it refused even to
hobble. In Melbourne they have vaudeville,
burlesque and Shakspeare. In Auckland
the firm has put stock drama on the market.
In Wellington the entire local spaghetti sup-
ply has been eaten up by its Italian Grand
Opera Co., and in Sydney it is busy with
pantomime. Incidentally it finds time to
be interested in a hundred or so picture-
shows.
“0.K.” : Apropos the theory that modern
juvenile crime is one of the sinful pro-
ducts of picture-shows, G. R. Sims reminds
ns that International Congresses for the
discussion of juvenile depravity were intro-
duced when Edison was a young man and
the movies had not been generally dreamed
of. Sims remembers the case of two Cock-
ney urchins murdering their mother in
order to rob her corpse of a shilling where-
with to buy their joint admission to a
cricket match. Also he remembers the case
of tlie two nine-year-old boys enclosing a
much younger kiddy in a dustbin, with a
view to getting rewarded for discovering his
body when he should have breathed his last.
This was in 1885, at which time there was
an epidemic of cold-blooded murder among
the young. And there were no movies to
incite juvenile depravity in 1885.
“Floater” : “Bob D.’s” list of Australians
in the American movies (B. 7/12/T6) omits
Elsie Wilson and Rupert Julian, who are
high up on the paysheet of one of the largest
film corporations. They are regularly allotted
the leading parts in the fashionable five-
reelers, and make a very striking couple, as
many picture enthusiasts in this country
have discovered. Rupert was a promising
juvenile here before he left to try his luck in
the Big Republic. Elsie, who is, of course,
Mrs. Rupert, and a sister of Nellie, the
former J. C. Williamson favorite, used to
shake her scarlet tresses in the legitimate in
Australia. She appeared conspicuously with
J. Knight in “Raffles,” “A Royal Divorce,”
“The Prisoner of Zenda,” and other pieces.
The opera lately written around Sheridan’s
“Critic” by the English composer Stanford
contains one of the most remarkable jokes
on record. He has brought in all sorts of
musical quotations, from Beethoven’s Choral
Symphony to “Auld Lang Syne,” and a bur-
lesque of Italian opera. Now, Sheridan
made Don Whiskerandos, when wounded in
a fencing-duel, exclaim, “O cursfed parry!”
And on that the orchestra now obliges with a
famliar strain from “Blest Pair of Sirens,”
by Stanford’s friend and rival, Sir Hubert
Parry!
“I Pagliacci”: I have just discovered
Mexico. It seems it isn’t all wild half-
breeds perpetually dodging somebody’s gun.
Talking to Sefior Carlos Yanzuelos, jun., he
confided to me that he had not yet found in
Australia the National Theatre devoted
entirely to grand opera such as exists in
Mexico City. Nor has he come upon any
theatre with the up-to-date Mexican idea of
having boxes in the wings for people who
are in mourning and who do not wish to be
seen. Neither has he noticed a law prohibit-
ing managers from exaggerating their shows
in lithographs, etc. The Mexican showman
must display exactly what he represents on
his advts.! A rotten place for musical-
comedy press-drummers, I should think!
THE DIVINE ARTIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Is acting man’s work?” was being warmly
debated in New York when the last mail left. The
bulk of opinion favored the idea that eventually
woman will possess the stage, leaving man free to
tasks more in keeping- with his majesty.
I put the case to Ichabod;
A fine old-fashioned actor he.
He listened gravely. With a nod
11c cleared his throat, and answered me.
“The greatest of the arts,” he said.
“Ah, here is grandeur if you will!
Here poetry and music wed
With passion and the limner’s skill.
“All that the painter does I do.
The writer writes, but I portray.
The sculptor’s forms I fashion, too;
All man’s emotions feel my sway.
“Great Shakspeare lives if I have speech,
And then no longer Homer nods.
Man’s work ? Nay, nay! Can mere man reach
The true vocation of the gods?”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Don Q.”: There’s a good time coming
for Victorian brown coal. Yankee engineers,
searching for a substitute for the rapidly-
failing oil fuel, reckon that powdered coal
is the future fuel for steam production. The
New York Central Railroad is the pioneer
in research work of this kind. The co. has
for over a year been trying specially built
locomotives using powdered coal as fuel, and
reckons it will be independent of oil. The
-'process is to mill the coal, pulverising and
rolling it until it is about as fine as flour.
The finer the crushing the better the result.
A 200-to-the-inch mesh is recommended.
Another essential is perfect dryness. The
powder is blown into the furnace just as
oil fuel is sprayed in. It is consumed
instantaneously and burns practically with-
out ash or clinker. The very last ounce of
power is thus taken out of the fuel, whereas
by the old method of burning in lumps some
20 per cent, is lost. And there are no
sparks pouring from the funnels either.
The method of pulverising is peculiarly
suited to a soft or poor coal. The increased
heating power more than pays for the cost
of milling, while a considerable saving is
made in handling. The powder is loaded
through suction pipes almost as easily as
oil fuel or water is pumped in. The
greatest drawback is the necessity for abso-
lute dryness of the powder, but in our
sunny Australian climate this is an easy
•problem.
“Moo”: The American Meat Trust is
gradually getting its tentacles on the indus-
try in Australia and Maoriland. Its latest
acquisition is the meat-exporting business
of the late A. L. Joseph, Christchurch
(M.L.), and that was about the best of its
sort in the shivery islands. The capital
at the command of the huge combine is so
large and distributed with such lavish hands,
and its case is presented so speciously, that
the grower is easily seduced, particularly
when large immediate profits will accrue to
him. The combine is prepared figuratively
to. pay away a half-crown for a two-shilling
piece. Later it has them both.
* * * *
It happened outside the Melbourne Town
Hall the other night. Some persons of im-
portance were departing in a thousand-pound
motor, when a party in black, leaning on
one of the pillars, suddenly pounced upon
something lying on the pavement. It was
a nice, clean Treasury note. An envious
and excited youth chimed’ in. “It’s ’is,” he
said. “It’s ’is [pointing to the motor]. I
saw him drop it.” “Hush! Don’t make
such a noise,” answered the finder coldly,
as he pocketed his prize and moved off. “He
can better afford to lose it than I can.”
* * * *
“Foe”: Everyone but the live cottontail
will be glad to hear that rabbit-skins had a
record sale-in London the other day, prices
jumping from 20 to 50 per cent. YVe may
not have sufficient energy to manufacture
motor-cars and things, but we can catch
and skin the national curse with the short
tail and the lone ears. If only some
foreigner will next tell us how to make a
delicious breakfast food or new beer out of
the prickly-pear, Australia Will Be There!
* * * *
“T. 0.1.” : Just demolished in King-street,
Sydney, a building which in its time served
many purposes. It stood on the south side,
about midway ’twixt Pitt and Castlereagh
streets. In the first ’6o’s it was the Cafe
de Paris, kept by Gus Wangenhein, and for
many years on the walls and marble tables
were examples of his black-and-white art.
After Wangenheim left King-street the cafe
became an ordinary pub known as Schroder’s.
Then the very youthful Daily Telegraph
migrated from York-street and held the
premises for some years until it built a
few doors east. After that came Quong
Tart, whose tearooms held the place until
they went out with the century.
* * * *
“8.1. D.”: The other day I bought a
nicely-finished little toy boat for the kid.
As soon as he could get his mother’s hat
on he rushed down to the beach to sail it.
But he didn’t go a long voyage. The Dread-
nought had hardly touched the water before
it started to sort of melt to pieces, and I
found it was made of cardboard and paper,
ballasted with paint and sand. The marks
on the paper showed that it was made in—
well, where do you think? Right, first guess.
“Two Seas”: Mention of Bernacchi by
“M. or N.” (B. 30/11/T6) recalls the fact
that bull-kelp was not the only spec, that
that enterprising Italian employed his
talents unon at Maria Island (Tas.). Tan-
ning kelp for leather was an easy proposi-
tion compared with his attempt to grow
grapes and establish the wine industry upon
that desolate spot. Nevertheless, Bernacchi
spent a lot of time and good money in plant-
ing out his vineyard. The vines grew all
right, and in due course a large party arrived
on the island by invitation to sample the first
crop and incidentally to apply for shares in
the venture. No one was permitted inside
the vineyard fence, but quantities of fine
grapes could be seen upon the vines, and
generous samples were cut and brought to
the visitors. Everyone was delighted to find
that the much-discussed experiment had
succeeded. But, later, some envious scoun-
drel divulged the secret that Nature had been
assisted by tying imported grapes to the
unfruitful vines.
* *• * *
It is our bad luck that he should bloom
and burst in our time, but Evolution knew
what it was about when it produced the Hun.
Up on the North Coast (N.S.W.) the flying-
foxes have been growing too numerous for
the guns, and the residents were staring
helplessly at the pests and wondering what
could be done until some bright spirit sug-
gested that they be gassed. Now everybody
is smiling again and thinking more kindly
of Wilhelm Von Stinkpot.
* * * *
“Murrayite” : Australian timber? Well,
try this. A barge on the Murray was re-
cently docked and the examining surveyor
reported that there were not six inches of
unsound timber in her bottom. This after
67 years afloat. Capt. McDonald assured
me that when they jacked her up she lifted
straight as a die from end to end. The
timber is S. Aus. blue-gum, and the skipper,
who is also the owner, reckons on getting
another 5Q years’ service out of her.
The Government orchard at Mylor (S.A.)
records a weird bit of fruit storage. Last
season’s big apple-crop lay about on the
ground. In June a lot of it was dug in. In
November ploughing was begun, and up
came a lot of the apples “in perfect condi-
tion.” Nearly 50 inches of rain had fallen
in the record winter between.
* *• * *
“Kossy”: The most cheerful item in
recent cables was the instance of poetic
justice involved, in the case of the Polish
count who has been arrested at Posen in
the midst of his patriotic machinations. He
had nobly avenged the wrongs of his down-
trodden country by swindling the conquer-
ing Hun out of fabulous sums in grain deals.
Dr. Johnson’s dictum that patriotism is the
last refuge of scoundrels will now have to
be reversed. In Poland, anyway, scoundrel-
ism is the last refuge of patriots. And may
it continue “till like a sea of glory it spreads
from Pole to Pole” !
* * * *
“Ses”: Tobacco manufacture was one of
the first industries established in Australia.
There were 11 factories in N. S. Wales in
1861; yet leaf-growing had progressed very
little half a century later. In 1888-9 the
Australian crop amounted to 6641 acres, of
which two-thirds was in N.S.W.; in 1913
it had diminished to 3007 acres. Yet few
things offer better prospects than tobacco,
though more labor is required in raising and
curing the leaf than is demanded by most
weeds. It is also a product that can’t be
got rid of as soon as it is harvested ; it has
to be kept curing in sheds. This and the
hard-dying prejudice against the local pro-
duct were mainly responsible for the early
slump—an undeserved slump, for our black
tobaccos at least are quite as good as any
foreigner’s.
THE OLD BLACK-DIAMOND LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The busy steamers ply their trade,
Their engines throb and hum,
And round the coast their tracks are laid,
Daily they go and come.
The coal-boats put to sea, and leave
The Nobbies far astern,
And, rough or fine, they shove and heave,
Good dividends to earn.
Their soot-fouled funnels spew forth smoke,
Their screws chastise the brine.
/ sing of ships of teak and oak,
The Old Black Diamond Line!
They had no “fair wind in the hold,”
No piean of whirling screw,
These little ships that pitched and rolled
Their ecal to Wallaroo.
And back again, with ore in bulk,
Leaping the Hunter bar,
Each waddling, battling brave old hulk
“Tied up” at Waratah.
Where are they now, these good old ships?
And Simpson, does he know?
Maybe he’s counting up their trips
Beyond the sunset’s glow.
Athena, Saxon, Moonta, too,
Kadina, and the rest;
The J. L. Hall and Wallaroo
Are shanghaied, Time-impressed.
Somewhere behind the furthest foam,
Where sheaves can never jamb,
Cruising, maybe, the Callaholme
And eke the Verulam.
These ships lived in a hempen time;
No beauty prize they’d earn ;
Their bows were cut off in their prime,
Likewise each old square stern.
Their skippers they were sailormen
In all that word could mean ;
And all of them who battled then
Have passed to Fiddler’s Green.
There’s Farrell, Christie, Cowan, Gadd,
Bunker and Trevett tall, .
And not forgetting my own dad—
Signed on for “good and all.”
Here where the smoke-stained steamers ply,
To serve the mart and mine,
Grey, ghostly ships go floating by—•
The Old Black Diamond Line!
Their sidelights burn dull red and green,
Seeming like dead ships’ eyes,
Seeking the tracks where they have been,
Old tracks, they used to prize.
And sometimes when the moon is bright,
And stars consent to shine,
I see them drifting through the night—-
The Old Black Diamond Line!
N.S.W.
WALT. J. SNADDEN.
AN ILL-TIMED VISIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We sit upon the table-top,
Our shoes and socks a-swill.
The rain that does not know to stop
Has oceans yet to spill.
Wild streams have drowned the dining-room;
And through a broken pane
A solemn cat with eyes of gloom
Floats in and out again.
Submerged is every bed, the chairs
Are floating one and all,
And wildly races down the stairs
A splendid waterfall.
The drowned man’s eyes do much affect
My nerves (they’re weak of late) —
He called this morning to collect
The half-year’s water rate.
VICTORIA.
NOAH.


a
i j
*
j 1
i lwm
IV,
2
o
Z
%
£
V*s
m
m
m
6
$<
V
6~z
n
%
H
c^
i
oh:
SS3
0?
C?
\\
\\
ALADDIN EXPLAINS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE GENUINE DRAWN-WIRE BAYONET-BASE
B.T.H. MAZDA LAMP AND THE IMITATION OF THE BAD UNCLE, WHO IS DEALT
WITH BY THE GENIE.
Aladdin Series
No. to.
g
‘Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
TELEPHONE-
CITY 3510 (5 lines).
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Etd.
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (IV.A.), Etd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : TJnbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND; The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Double Sovereign Purse
and Stamp Holder, handsomely engraved, £5/10/-
Silver, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Match Box,
£B/10/-. Silver, Gold
Mounted, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Safety Pin, with patent two-
piece non-breakable joint, ljin.,
3/6; liin., 4/6; lfin., 5/6.
loct. Gold: ljin., 7/6; ljin.,
8/6; lfin., 10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Links, richly en-
graved, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Gold Mounted
Cigar Cutter, 12/6.
%
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct.
Gold Plain
Oval Signet
Ring, 20/-;
ISct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold
Ring, set Ame-
thyst, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Solid Gold Medal,
20/-; 15ct. Gold,
40/-; Silver, 3/6.
A. Saunders’ Luminous Dial Mili-
tary Silver Lever Watch, in regula-
tion strap, £2/10/-. Extra jewelled,
£3, £3/10/-. Gold filled, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-. Solid Gold, £4/10/-, £5,
£5/10/-, £7/10/- - '
A. Saunders’
9ct. Solid Gold
Albert “Curb,”
£4/10/-
Others, £2/15/-,
£3/2/6,
£3/15/-,
£4/2/6, £5,
£5/10/-
/
V
A. Saunders’ Nickel-silver Screw-
front, one piece back case Railway
Lever Watch, with screw-front Bezel, air-,
dust- And water-proof. Lever movement, full
chronometer balance, accurately adjusted arid
regulated, 30/-. Extra jewelled, £2,
£2/10/-. Solid silver cases, £2/10/-,
£3, £4/10/-, £5, £6.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Nickel or Gunmetal Wrist-
let Watch. Full jewelled, Compensation Balance, Lever Move-
ment, 30/-. Solid silver ease, £2. Gold filled Luminous Dial,
■ £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Combination Sovereign Purse and
Match Box, £5/10/-. Plain or engaved, 15ct. Gold, £lO.
Silver, 25/-
A. Saunders’
Oct. Solid Gold
Albert,
£3/15/-;
Heavier, £4/2/6,
£4/10/-, £5.
15ct, £6/10/-.
Heavier,
£7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Solid
Gold Cigarette Case,
“Ribbon” Design,
£l2/10/-, Plain, £lO. Solid
Silver, 30/-. Rolled Gold,
£2/15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Gent.’s Seal
Pendant, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold-
mounted Am-
ber Cigarette
Holder, in 9ct.
Gold Case, 40/-
Ditto Cigar Holder,
£3/5/-
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Tie Clip, extra
heavy, plain or engraved,
15/-
Smaller size, 10/6.
Zx.yJuna
CURES ECZEMA.
Lema, Belmore Road, Randwick, 7/8/’l6. Mr. S.
Fielder, Randwick. Dear Sir, —I suffered for many
years with Eczema on both my feet, and after trying-
numerous so-called remedies without any benefit I
came to the Conclusion that my case was incurable.
A friend advised me to try your remedy, “Exzerma,”
so I decided to give it a trial. After a week I was
completely cured. —W. J. Day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick. 2/() 5/-
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what thev think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as thev tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.”
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCH & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
m
m
SaSsSG
fĝ
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Du.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, I/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
Mow to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including . Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating tiie Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to'Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ 'Workshop
llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), ■'!/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Paintino and Papering, 1/2.
&
m
B
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HO3IE TALK,’’
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. .It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
!•“ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prop. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks-’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to AVin at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3- Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
■ Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Im-
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6!
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacics, 1/2.
All these prices Post raid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. iHTEstablished 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT,
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking ,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage.
1/- posted. New Thicks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, _ 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford s Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. . Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Ivey to all Degrees,
New l/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd.. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a AATfe, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The AVife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s AVorks, all at 6/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy', is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. AA'ebster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guine )?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/' P°st- 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. AVRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
I*l VOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
I VOLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Grand Reappearance of
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
VERA PEARCE, JACK CANNOT, GEORGE
WELCH, WALTER WEEMS, THELMA RAYE,
DAISY, and SYDNEY YATES, FRED BLUETT,
BILLY REGO, and others.
Plan at Glen’s.
ER MAJESTY \S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Return of the ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
including FLORENCE YOUNG, with
THU CINEMA STAR.
Most Resplendent of the Theatrical Firmament.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
QHITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. announce FLORENCE
ROCKWELL, FRANK HARVEY and an able Com-
pany of Dramatic Associates, in
THE HOUSE OE GLASS.
By MAX MARCIN.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
HEA T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 6.
The Popular BERT BAILEY CO. will present
STEELE RUDD’S
ON OUR SELECTION.
BERT BAILEY as DAD.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees as Usual.
Return of J. & N. TAIT’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in
PEG O’ MY HEART.
The most popular of all plays. Plans at Nicholson’s.
WHITE CITY
TO-NIGHT.
7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
f
Triangle plats at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
w Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
Elt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
H
J. c. WILLIAIHSON LTD. present the Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-
II EAT R E ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 6.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present William C. de
Mille’s Powerful Dramatic Story,
THE WOMAN.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
IRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Appearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
RICHAIID HI.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees.... Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 6.
Miss KATE HOWARDE presents the American
Farce Comedy Success,
THE ACCIDENTAL HONEYMOON.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
Arcadia, st. kilda, Melbourne.
Direction NIGEL BROCK PTY. LTD.
THE PINK DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
In their Delightful Entertainment.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Sixpence Extra all round
on SATURDAYS and HOLIDAYS. Plans at Glen’s
and Habers’.
A musements.
-pin: AI bitorium, jielbodbnb.
FOUR SESSIONS DAILY,
2, 3.30, 7.30 and 9.
E. J. CARROLL presents
WHERE ARE MY CHILDREN?
A forceful sermon in Moving Picture form.
Prices 6d. and 1/- during afternoon.
6d., 1/- and 2/- at night.
I 14 C H & C A K K O L E
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTIIWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
UL Ij E It’S II OTEL, MELBOURNE
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porteij
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
gf
Do You Suffer from CATARRH ?
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
will cure Catarrh, Hay Fever, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Price with Complete Treatment, only
10/-. Post Free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
Box 466,49 b Elizabeth St., Melbourne. [2
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Ma'tchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Business Notices.
■ Sifts for Our -
Soldier Friends.
SVe have made a special feature of gifts for
our soldier boys, and at present hold an
unrivalled stock from which to select some
practical but pleasant memento for your
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note these values:—
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case 4/-
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
-65 1 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY. B
Established over 30 Years.
Used the
World Over
g
fdg
MOTOR
...CARS
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New I s ovelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE
01
f
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CABE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly. •
Post Free, 9d.
Ii
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
9
9
9
9
fdg
MADE by Mr. James Mountney, Cap-
tain of the Gloucester Wagon Works
Miniature Rifle Club, Gloucester, England,
in competition, January, 1916, with
Remington,
CARTRIDGES
(The targets reproduced are the standard
S.M.R.C. “Match” Targets at 25 yards in com-
petition for the Steinitz Cup.)
All ten shots may be covered easily, in the
original : targets, with a threepenny piece.
Remington UMC cartridges are used by ex-
pert riflemen everywhere—they have a world-
wide reputation for accuracy and uniformity.
The Remington Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne
ACCEPTABLE GIFTS
At STEWART DAWSON’S
Stewart Dawson’s strong Oxidised
Steel Case Lever, with crystal glass
front. It has a J-plate nickel move-
ment, with compensation balance.
Special Value, 15/6.
Selected from oar latest Catalogue, and
representing a rare combination of
Quality, Economy and Variety.
9ct. Gold Battalion Color Wish-
bone Brooch, any Battalion color,
8/6.
9ct. Gold Battalion Color Brooch,
Boomerang design, inset any colors'
Price, 8/6,
Solid 9ct. Gold
Ring, inset any
Battalion Colors.
Lady’s Ring, 217-
Gent’s Ring, 25/-
Handsome 2-stone
Diamond Ring,
Platinum and 18ct.
«old, £6/10/-
Larger Stones,
£7/10/- and
£B/10/-
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Comer, 418 Gtorta Stmt. SYDNEY.
The
Treasure
House,
“Wart” : A few weeks ago The Bulletin
gave an account of the war honors won -'by.
old boys of the Launceston Church Grammar
School. Add this: Military Cross: I.
Thorntwaite, A. A. Evans, W. J. Howard,
J. Webster. D.S.O.: R. Sherwin. D.C.M.:
W. Connell. French Military Medal: B. ff.
Hallows. But in one respect the old schools
luck is bad. Out of, 380 of its old boys
known to be at the Front over 30 have been
killed. ( i
Succumbed to white plague, at 43, Bill
Martin, native of Climes (Vic.), student jit
Ballarat School of Mines, and until lately
nianager of the Associated Northern show at
Ora Banda (W.A.). He spent the last'20
years of his life in the West, and 13 years
ago made an unsuccessful attempt to get into
the Federal Senate. For a time he was pro-
minent in A'.N.A. circles, and had more
brains than most. ’
Ibegal Notices.
WHEREAS by an Order of the High Court of
Justice Chancery Division dated 17tli July 1916
made in the matter of the Estate of GEORGE
POCOCK deceased and in an action of PITHIE and
another v. POCOCK and others (1916 P. 821) the
following inquiry was directed namely: —
“An Inquiry whether FRANCIS ALDERSEY
TURNOUR POCOCK (a son of GEORGE PEARCE
POCOCK) is living or dead and if dead when he
died and whether he died under the age of 21 years
and if he attained the age of 21 years whether he
died testate or intestate and who is now beneficially
entitled to his share under the Will of the Testator
GEORGE POCOCK.”
Notice is hereby given that the said FRANCIS
ALDERSEY TURNOUR POCOCK-or any person or
persons claiming- to be entitled under the said
inquiry are personally or by his or their Solicitors on
or before Tuesday the Ist May 1917 to come in and
prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice
Sargant and Mr. Justice Younger at the Royal Courts
of Justice Strand London England and to enter
their names and the particulars of their claims in
a book kept for that purpose in Room 299 at the
said Royal Courts of Justice or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order. Tuesday the Bth day of May 1917
at 11 of the clock in the forenoon at the said Cham-
bers (Room 297) is appointed for heaving and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this 6th day of November 1916.
JtIOIID. WHITE
Master.
NOTE. —The said FRANCIS ALDERSEY
TURNOUR POCOCK is the son of George Pearce
Pocock and Fannv Pocock. He sailed from England
for Adelaide Australia in July 1863 being then of
the age of 16 years. He is believed to have gone
into the country stock keeping and when last heard
of he was going to New South Wales.
BIRD & ELDRIDGES,
10 Great James Street,
Bedford Row, London, W.C.
Agents for Moore Rawlins & Vicary, of Lymington,
Hants.
Solicitors for the plaintiffs.
IN DIVORCE. IN THE- SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW ZEALAND. NORTHERN DISTRICT. No. 991.
Between ELIZABETH MACKENZIE, of the City of
Auckland, wife of Alexis Gveig Mackenzie, Petitioner,
and ALEXIS GREIG MACKENZIE, late of Auckland,
Canvasser, Respondent.
To ALEXIS GREIG MACKENZIE, formerly of
Auckland, Canvasser, but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
18th day of November, 1916, has issued out of this
Court citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of ELIZABETH MACKENZIE of Auckland, praying
for a dissolution of her marriage with you on the
grounds that you have deserted her for 5 years and
upwards without just cause. TAKE NOTICE that
by an Order of this point dated the Bth day of
December, 1916, it was ordered that personal ser-
vice on the Respondent of the Petition and Citation
be dispensed with, and that service be effected by
advertising an abstract of the Petition and Citation
to be settled by. the Registrar of this court at Auck-
land twice in the Sydney Bulletin and twice in one-
daily newspaper published in the City of Auckland,
and that an appearance and answer be filed within 90
days after the date of the insertion of the last of
such advertisements and that the trial be at the
First sittings of this Honorable Court in Divorce, to
be held at Auckland after the expiration of 110 days
from the last appearance of such advertisements as
aforesaid. If you wish to enter an appearance you
must within the time above-mentioned attend in
person or by a Solicitor at the Registry of this
Court at Auckland, and there enter an appearance
in a book provided for the purpose. In default of
your so doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition, and you will not be allowed to
address the Court.
Dated at Auckland this 18th day of December,
1916.
(Sgd.) R. G. THOMAS, Registrar.
This abstract is published by Archibald Peak, of
Wyndham Street, Auckland, Solicitor ."or the Peti-
tioner. A copy of the Petition may be inspected at
the office of Messrs. Walker A Peak, Wyndham Street,
Auckland, or at the Auckland Registry of the
Court. Friends of Respondent are requested to for-
ward this- advertisement to him.
RYDERS
SEEDS
FROM OYERTHE SEA
will give-you tho best flowers of -the old
Homeland and the finest home-grown
Vegetables.
Illustrated Catalogue
of Ryders Seeds in Penny Packets
FREE to anyone anywhere.
RYDER & SON, Ltd.
Seed Merchants. ST. ALBANS, ENG.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Lt 4
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE § HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandises,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH, General Manager.


fd
g
GeorceJl
' W ° fe^ Ures , ever f niB ' ht > 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoioughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
one week at Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
metro-dramas first releases screened.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
Bourke $t
The Picture BlocK
Sydney &
RNE
MAGNESIA HELPS DYSPEPTICS.
PATENT FOODS AND MEDICINES
. NO LONGER NECESSARY.
Many dyspeptics have now discontinued
the use of expensive patent foods, harmful
drugs, medicines and artificial digestants,
and instead, following the advice often given
in these columns, they just take half a tea-
spoonful of bisurated magnesia in a little
water after meals, with the result that they
not only save money but enjoy much better
health. Those who have once tried bisurated
magnesia never dread the approach of meal-
times, because they know that this wonder-
ful antiicid and food corrective, which can
so readily be obtained from any chemist,
will instantly neutralise acidity and prevent
all possibility of the food fermenting in the
stomach. Try this plan yourself, but mind
you get bisurated magnesia, as other forms
are unsuitable.— Advt.
“Definiteness—a characteristic of successful people”
--and we might add, whiskies.. It is the definite dis-
tinctiveness of the flavor of Thorne's Whisky that is
responsible for much of its success.
Be definite when ordering'.
Say THORNE’S—and see that you GET IT.
THORNE'S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
In the black square bottle and of superb quality. [3
Why Have Grey Hair?
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless
recipe will correct it.
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few
nights with a small sponge and you will
soon have the pleasure of seeing the greyness
disappear. This recipe is perfectly harmless,
is neither sticky nor greasy, and has given
perfect satisfaction for many generations to
those in possession of the secret.—Advt. [4
POLITICAL
POINTS
A cable message says that “Mr. Hughes
must go ’ to the so-called Imperial war con-
ference. Australia doesn’t mind. All it
insists upon is that Mr. Hughes does not go
in a representative capacity, unless Parlia-
ment expressly chooses him. And even
then he will not speak for Australia. He is
not an Australian, he is a stranger to Aus-
tralian sentiment, he has mostly been an
enemy of Australian aspirations, and he is
cordially mistrusted now by the only partv
tor which he was ever at all entitled to speak.
Apparently Hughes was thinking the other
day ot calling a secret meeting of Parliament
m order that he might “explain the reasons
which make necessary his immediate presence
in London. This looks like a repetition of
the clumsy joke perpetrated by Pearce a few
is°whni a fl?' , n n hat / h 2 P e °Ple want to know
what the talk at the other end is to be
Si™ Tl wl rV h< - atti tude of the represen-
Au ? traJla is going to be. Also what
it is wot going to be, and why the several-
times I rime Minister whom Australia pays
to represent it in London can’t do all the
talking that is necessary.
■, that they are starting to save the
some S for P thl hai)S S ey wiU be able to spare
Federaf LibeTal^party. 860 ™* ° £ ‘ he
Hughes, under the War Precautions Act,
prohibited last week any mention of a cer-
tain matter of great national importance.
The first cable message concerning it was
given out by the British Government. On
ednesday the Censor was making appeals
to the newspapers to pull their final-edition
plates- to pieces for the purpose of taking
out the official message which had been
broadcasted during the day. There is a
limit to_ what the papers will stand, and
that limit is almost reached. It was reached
once before, and Hughes knows what hap-
pened then. Sometning will have to happen
again if this disordered person persists in
misusing the censorship for political pur-
poses.
P.M.G. AVebster explains that during the
past eight months he has saved “a quarter
of a million of last year’s deficit of £G40,000”
in the Post Office. Of course lie has not
done anything of the kind. That £040,000
lias vanished down the sink and emerged
as a full blown p.n. What the Post Office
has done is tq lose less this year, so far, than
it did in the year before. Which is all right
so far as it goes; but on Webster’s own
figures an absolute monopoly of the second-
biggest business in the country is still
making solid losses. In the circumstances
the result is simply something that any busi-
ness man must laugh at.
Fenton, M.H.R., makes the sensible sug-
gestion that, instead of going to England to
talk about a nebulous Imperial union,
Hughes should stay at home and get to work
ou recasting the broken-down Federal Con-
stitution.
HOW TO DISTTNGUTSH THEM.
“No ; in these times of war I only respond
to the appeals of the deserving poor .”
“Yes. hut who ARE the deserving poor?”
“ Why, those who NEVER ash for assistance,
of course!”
Woodrow Wilson wants to leave his Villa
in Mexico for a mansion at The Hague.
If Hughes goes to England he will, of
course, have to explain why Australia
turned down universal service. ' In particu-
lar he might then quote how his colleague,
Jens August Jensen, helped the cause bv
saying:—
There has been a cry for conscription, but who
would suffer if it were adopted? The poor and
middle classes ! '
Then Hughes might add that he is such a
stalwart conscriptionist himself that, on
Jensen’s advice being taken, and conserip
tion being turned down, he rewarded Jens
August by reappointing him Minister for
the Navy.
There is no need to abuse the Huns for
the dissemination of canards. Having made
their bed they are bound to lie on it.
Bananaland is the first State whose Gov-
ernment has said exactly what it is pre-
pared to do for Billjim if he wants to go on
the land. The bill—not yet passed, of
course—provides that the Minister may set
apart Grown lands or-take-over private lancls
(at a valuation) for the benefit of William.
Ihe farms are to be handed out under the
perpetual lease system, and for the first
three years the rental will be “a pepper-
corn if . demanded.” From the fourth to the
fifteenth year it will be II per cent
of the capital value of the area. After that
it is reckoned that Billjim ought to pay the
S /“ e as * he P?tF 10t who stayed at home.
; V i-noT iS ’ llha “ can an advance up
to foOO from the Agricultural Bank, repay-
able in 40 years, the interest starting at 34
I,e r cent., and gradually climbing until it
leaclies the maximum of o por cent. A.s to
providing Bill with the necessary experience
—well, when did anybody who ever talked
about settling people on the land think that
it was necessary for the settler to know
anything?
Dr. Florence, of Cootamundra (N.S.W.),
lately gave Billjim this certificate: —
As an examining officer lie had stripped between
five and six thousand men, and in only three or
tour cases found any traces of venereal disease. As
an old soldier and doctor he could assert that no
country in the world could say the same thing.
Good as far as it goes; but unluckily it
doesn't go far enough. No doubt tlie country
is cleaner than the city; but what Dr.
Florence doesn’t know is how many more
country Bilijims he might have stripped had
no-one been unclean.
Perth Chamber of Commerce, looking at
the matter for the business point of view,
has struck Westralian Liberals dumb by
proposing (1) abolition of State
Governors, (2) reduction in
number of legislators, and (3)
reduction in legislators’ salaries.
The first two suggestions were
once strong planks in Labor’s
platform; and the third isn’t
worth putting in any policy.
Least of all should a. body of
business men, convinced that a
concern is going to the dogs, pro-
pose to stop the rush by cutting
down the managers’ salaries.
Westralia needs not 80 legisla-
tors at an average of a couple of
hundred a year, but at most a
dozen at a couple of thousand.
At present nine-tenths of the
men who run the State get salaries which a
man who runs one of the big mines would
hardly offer to a competent engine-driver.
As for himself, he would expect about 10
times as much.
What nonsense this is of compelling
women going on a trip to Maoriland to take
out passports ! The only results are to give
Red Tape a futile job and add substantially
to a charge for transport that is already too
high. It is only in the brain of some mili-
tary official that the idea of forcing elderly
females to (1) get their photographs taken
and (2) produce the picture at the right
place and pay 10s. for a descriptive docu-
ment, can have been hatched. It is up to
someone else to squelch this conspiracy for
looting old women.
Germany is both war-maker and peace-
maker by Divine right. Says the Koel,-
nische Zeitung :—-
If the Entente refuses peace the German submarines
will be given the word “Go forward.” No American
will prevent us enforcing peace upon an enemv who
will not negotiate.
Two and a half years ago Europe was in-
formed by the Kaiser that awful things
would happen to it as punishment for having
compelled him to go to war. Now it is
warned of the more awful punishment in
store if it doesn’t permit Gott’s anointed to
go to peace. The Kaiser’s word is law
every time. .If he says war, then war it
must be. If it is peace, peace it must be,
even if it be only the peace of the graveyard.
The amended Licensing Act which re-
cently rumbled through' the Vic. Legislature
provides for the registration of barmaids.
Forms have been issued, and, according to
one Melbourne paper, “a full physical
description will be required for purposes of
identification.” However, the persons in
charge of the registration may be satisfied
merely to record the barlady’s peculiarities
of feature, complexion, hair and stature, and
let it go at that.
THE PROOF OF IT.
“Very smart young man dot Solinski!”
“Vy, vot does he do?”
“Dot’s just it. He’s so smart he gets along
veil and does nottings.”
The Admiralty is doing what it should have
done as soon as the war broke out, and no
more deep-sea shipping reports are now to
be read in the newspapers. It was out-
rageous, with the U boats cruising just out-
side the Thames, that lists of departures
should have been published each day: even
the big mail-boat’s sailing hour was given out
in plenty of time for the preparation of a
welcome in the Mediterranean or elsewhere.
No doubt the inconvenience from the suppres-
sion of this news is considerable, but it isn’t
half so inconvenient as being torpedoed.
The “direct-actioners” were not the only
Australians who wore disfranchised when
the conscription plebiscite was taken. The
three or four thousand Australians in the
British Army were deprived of the vote,
and so. according to a Billjim correspondent,
were A.I.F. men undergoing punishment for
military offences, no matter how trivial, and
those awaiting trial.
IN THE FACE OF THE ENEMY.
BULL (to Jim, on final leave): “’Ere, ’and
'us a nip, ’Erbert—’ere’s ’Iudenburg!”
There will be a new ground for divorce
in Queensland if a Government Bill goes
through. Possibly for the first time any-
where, a marriage may be annulled if either
party develops venereal disease within ill
months of being clapped into Cupid’s hand-
cult's.
One prominent • trade unionist who wen,
for _ conscription without getting scalded is
“Mick” Connington, for 15 years secretary
of the Trolly and Draymen’s Union, Sydney,
M. M. Hughes was its president; and when
the union decided to expel Billy, Conning-
ton immediately threw in his resignation.
He was asked to reconsider it, but refused ;
and now he has tacked up a doorplate which
announces that he is in business as a wages
board advocate. He will get all the work
1 e wants- from the unions, as he is known
as the ablest - advocate before the In-
dustrial Court, and has made himself solid
by taking dozens of cases for weak unions
without payment.
Oi the first Federal Ministry five members
—Dicksoip Lyne, Kingston, Turner and
K. F. O’Connor—are dead, some of them
lone dead. Of Reid. Forrest, Turner, King
ston, Dickson and Braddon, the “blot”-
maker, the six State Premiers whose por-
traits appear on certificates issued to Vic-
torian voters on the Federation Referendum
question, only the first two are about to-day.
ihe neat and frameable Victorian certificate
was promised by George Turner as an in-
ducement for all enfranchised citizens to
record their votes, but only a few thousands
were ever applied for.
TRAWLING HYMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are better fish in the deep green sea
Than any that come to land ;
And tlie trawling-nets are wide and free,
As a fool may understand.
Oh, the trawling-nets are widely spread,
And the marble slab is cold,
And the place where the silver scales are shed
Could a tale of the deeps unfold.
Far under the waves on a lazy fin
The schnapper and shrimp went by,
Food for the people that zeal might - win,
And the pans were ripe to fry.
The statesman looked and his proud, coy smile
Spread over his ardent face,
For the worker’s breakfast in easy style
Pervaded the deep, wet place.
Ho, bring me paper ! Ho, bring me ink !
There are deeds for a man to do !
And the sea laughed loud to its sandy brink
As he scribbled the lOU,
As he wrote the call for the cash to buy
The trawlers to trawl the deep,
'That the fish might come to the pans to fry
And the world acclaim them cheap.
Cheap fish! Cheap fish! And the trawlers trawled,
And the fish were brought to shore;
And the wares in his shop the statesman bawled
Where the cray' hung red at the door.
The gay sun shone and the good sea rolled
And the bream on a silver fin
Came up to the net and with sea-strides bold
Led thither his kith and kin.
cheap fish ! Cheap fish ! ’Twas the pride of town ;
But the statesman’s brow grew tense
When the cod that was captured for half a crown
Had been purchased for eighteen-pence.
And a mist came down on the splendid scheme,
A mist that was grey and drear,
For the food that was cheap in the statesman's
dream
In the balanced accounts was dear.
Oh, heavily up and down he strode,
The man who had planned the thing.
And Cohen’s fear on his hot heart rode
And tortured it string by string;
And he wrote a minute to bring him cheer,
Or perchance to turn his luck :
But the fish that were cheap were doubly dear
When the men on the trawlers struck.
And somewhere behind he heard a shout,
’Twas a fearsome shout and loud ;
And a boot on a sudden urged him out
f rom his place in the Labor crowd.
With the Labor boot and the Labor bawl
His fishscape was wild and gay,
While he pondered the trawlers that would not trawl
Or that, trawling, refused to pay.
But the round eyes under the deep green sea
Smiled low as they viewed the land ;
And the trawling grounds were wide and free,
As a fool might understand
Oh, the things that a fool may com rehend
The heart of a fool may thrill;
But the kind fates know when the y st has end—
’Tis the public that foots the bill."
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
PARTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two new Labor Leagues with different platforms
are being formed in Sydney. A new Commonwealth
National Party is being formed in Melbourne \
readjustment of parties is looked for to keep the
Government in office during the Prime Minister’s
absence.
Let them all come! New parties by the dozen
Hammer the rusted nails in ancient planks
To build new platforms, sister, aunt or cousin
To other platforms now declined with thanks.
Jones has his caucus meeting to arrange for ;
Smith has declared his boats and bridges ’ burned,
And airs his latest fancies in exchange for
Those that he held when Thompson’s league
adjourned.
O Brien and his strong committee linger
In loud debate of fusion with McGuire;
Spirks braves his party’s wrath and shakes a finger
At Blithers, who has threatened to retire.
The National Abusives are devising
A cry to shake the country to its core,
The while the A.S.S. is organising
By methods strange and never tried before.
Leagues, parties, fusions, splits, associations
- Are plentiful as pubs along the street;
And their relation to the War of Nations
Each leader, states with eloquence and heat.
Let them all come ! New parties by the million
Hammer the rusted nails in platforms new.
There is a Parliament in every skillioh,
xlnd every hash-tower boasts a league or two.
We must get busy lest another baulk us.
Here on two boots / take my solid stand:
I am, my party, platform, league and caucus,
And go alone to serve and save the land!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


FIFTY BOOKS BY
BULLETIN WRITERS
sui
Published by the
N.S.W: Bookstall Co. Ltd.
1« each i/1 posted
All Oae Price
fTFACT'RYANDS
EOWABD OYSCM
“Bulletin” Reciter.
A capital collection of recitations written
by the best of Australian poets. THE
A ustralian reciter.
“Aboriginalities.”
A selection of the best paragraphs that
have appeared in “The Bulletin's” famous
“Aboriginalities” page.
Arthur H. Adams
' The Knight of the Motor
Launch.”
M. Forrest:
“A Bachelor’s Wife.”
Randolph Bedford
“Billy Pagan, Mining Engi-
neer.”
Edward Dyson’s
“Loves of Lancelot.”
“Fact’ry ’Ands.”
“The Missing Link.”
“Benno and Some of the
Push.”
“Spats’ Fact’ry.”
“Tommy the Hawker.”
Steele Rudd’s
Selection Stories.
Thos. E. Spencer’s
Humorous Books.
Harry Julius:
“Theatrical Caricatures.”
Arthur Wright’s
“In the Last Stride.”
“The Sport from Hollow-
log Flat.”
“The Hate of a Hun.”
“A Rogue’s Luck.”
“Gamblers’ Gold.”
“Rung In.”
“Norman Lindsay’s Book
No. I.”
Norman Lindsay
“A Curate in Bohemia.”
“Norman Lindsay’s Book
No. II.”
A. Q. Stephens
“Bill’s Idees.”
J. H. M. Abbott
“The Sign of the Serpent.’
E. J. Brady:
“Tom Pagdin, Pirate.”
Sumner Locke:
“Skeeter Farm.”
“Mum Dawson, Boss.”
“The Dawsons’ Uncle George.
Louis Becke:
Bully Hayes, Buccaneer.”
The Adventures of Louis Blake.”
Obtainable from all Booksellers and Bookstalls in the Commonwealth, or direct from
the Publishers.
Write for a Complete Catalogue of the “Bookstall Series.
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
BRITISH-MADE
0
10-inch
double-
sided
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
REGAL Monthly “No. 24” Supplement.
G 7321
( Eove the Pedlar
| I«ove Is Meant to Slake Us Glad, from
“Merrie England”
Annie Rees, Soprano.
G 7325
f In Lonesome Hand
1 Iv’e Had a Wire from the Man in the Moon
F. W. Itamsey, Baritone.,
G 7328
Stanley Kirkbv, Baritone.
... Irving Gillette, Tenor.
i UNDERNEATH THE STARS
) JIY MOTHER’S ROSARY
G 7329
s The Phantom Brigade
1 Tittle Gadabout —Intermezzo
Regimental Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
07330
Regimental Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
Punjaub March
Plash of Steel March
G 7331
f popular Songs Medley. Part 1 Concertina Solo by Alexander Prince.
(Popular Songs Medley, Part 2 » ” ”
Introducing:- Part I.—Great Big Wonderful Baby ; Kentucky Home ; When I Leave the
World Behind ; Tennessee. Part 2.—Good-bye, Virginia ; Since Chumley Came Back ,
Piney Ridge; Are You From Dixie?
G 7332
J Popular Songs Medley. Part 3 Concertina Solo by Alexander Prince.
I Popular Songs Medley. Part 4
Introducing: Part 3.—Keep the Kettle Boiling. Mary, Joybells Ring ng
Georgia; Pa AUp Your Troubles; Oh, Mr. Rubinstein. Part 4.—Bad as
When You’re a Long, Long Way from Home; Cassidy; A Bioken Doll.
Down in
You Are;
G 7333
Cornet Solo by Sergt. Leggett.
f LOVE’S GARDEN OF ROSES
j The Garden of Your Heart
G 7334
f Because
An Evening Song
John Adams, Tenor.
ERIC RANDOLPH —The Tenor with the Throat of Ciold.
G 7335
f The Island of Dreams ...
) I Know a Lovely Garden
Eric Randolph, Tenor.
G 7336
\ Just a Jack or Tommy
( The Saucy Arethusa . .
J. H. Scotland, Baritone.
G 7337
Gertie Gitana. Comedienne.
William Thomas and Quartette.
j There’s Silver in Your Hair
| My Heart is Calling Vou .
G7338
Irving Gillette, Tenor.
Ernest Sullivan, Tenor.
5 M-O-T-H-E-B
[ Mother and Me
G 7339
f British Bulldogs: 1. The Fireman Harry Weldon, Comedian.
(British Bulldogs: 2. Poor Joe » ”
G 7340
Duet: Grace Nash and Sam Ash.
Collins and Harlan, Cohiedians.
\ Rackety Coo
( All Aboard for Chinatown
G 7341
f Stand Back, Boys, Here Comes a Soldier Harry Mailo ,
i Taffy’s Got His Jenny in Glamorgan » ”
[ (Every Tommy’s Got a Girl Somewhere).
G 7342
{No Treating.
I Billy Takes s
(Bluff and Whitlock) Humorous Descriptive.
Pub. (Bluff and Whitlock
G7343
s Sleep, Baby, Sleep loanug »uug
l Emmett’s Eullaby
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Kawson Place.
MELBOCKNE, VlC.—Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Svvanston St. |
UUISDANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street. |
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street, I j
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade. ||
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street. (
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—W'ebley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St,
DUNEDIN, N'.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. '
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
m m
’ i
HUH
mmm
m
STLiS
moNom^w'm
mbK*:
ME ■■
mm swiss
I m
a
rr
P'i
%
Cli
o
3
m
*<*
m
V
LEMON PUDDING
1 '■
Ingredients.— l /z a lemon, 1 pint water, 2 eggs,
/■2 oz. butter, 1 breakfast-cupful bread crumbs, 1
tablespoonful sugar, 2 tablespoonsful NESTLE’S
CONDENSED MILK.
Method. —Dissolve the milk in the water. Cut
the rind of the lemon very thjn and put it into the
milk, allow to come to the boil, then remove the lemon
rind, and pour milk over bread crumbs. When
slightly cool pour in the beaten egg?; three-parts fill
a buttered pie-dish with the mixture, and add the but-
ter, divided into little bits. Bake in a moderate oven
for 30 minutes or until set. Whisk whites of egg to a
stiff froth and stir in sugar. Take pudding out of oven
and pour the juice of half a lemon over, then put the
whites of eggs roughly on the top and dredge with fine
sugar. Put back in the oven for five minutes.
THIS WEEK’S MENU.
QUEEN CAKES
Ingredients.—& ozs. flour, 3 oz*. butter, 2 ozs.
candied peel, 1 lemon rind, 2 tablespoonsful
NESTLE’S CONDENSED MILK, mixed with ‘/4 pint
of water,3 ozs. sugar, 3 ozs. currants, 2 eggs, 1 table-
spoonful baking powder.
Method.—Sill the flour, add grated lemon rind,
currants, and the peel chopped fine. Cream the
"butter and sugar, and add the eggs and milk
alternately with the dry ingredients. Well grease
some moulds and bake 15 minutes.
- o tablespoonMU*
. 2 az»- fb** K3I P> nt vrater,
/n * condensed milk, 44 p
SE£l “«"“C.»->* *3 -»<■•
J ra in off an “ P ut /.„» occasionally- pouf 11,10
- *■ -*• “
b ’' ““
T
SAGO PUDDING
Ingredients. —2 ozs. fine sago, 2 table-
spoonsful NESTLE’S CONDENSED MILK,
44 P'nt water, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 egg.
Method. —Soak the sago in cold water and
drain, then sprinkle into the water and milk
while boiling. Stir until cooked—about 10
minutes. Allow to cool, and stir in the
beaten egg and the sugar. Pour into a
buttered pie-dish. Bake in a moderate oven
for about half an hour. Dish up and serve
hot.
NOTE. — A little grated lemon rind or
nutmeg sprinkled over the pudding before
baking will give it additional flavour.
CUSTARD MOULD
Ingredients. —3 tablespoonsful NESTLE’S
CONDENSED MILK, 44 pint water, oz.
gelatine, 2 eggs, almond essence.
Method. —Heat the milk, dissolve the
gelatine in it and pour on the beaten
yolks of the eggs. Pour into a jar and
place it in a saucepan of boiling water;
then stir till the custard thicken*. When
nearly cold add the whites of the eggs
well beaten, and the essence, and pour
into a mould to set.
hot afternoon tea cakes
Ingredients. —lib. flour, 1 teaspoonful
cream of tartar, l /x teaspoonful bi-carbonatfe
of soda, 2 eggs, 4 ozs. butter, 2 tablespoons-
ful NESTLE’S CONDENSED MILK mixed
with x /x pint water.
Method.- Rub the butter into the flour,
then add other ingredients. Mix into a
light dough with the eggs and milk; cut
into small rounds with a fancy cutter, brush
over with egg, and bake in a very hot oven
for IS minutes.
RASPBERRY CREAM ICE
Ingredients. —J/j oz. ground rice, 4 ozs.
. raspberry jam or raspberry essence, a few
drops of’ carmine, 1 pint water, 3 table-
' spoonsful of NESTLE’S CONDENSED
MILK.
Method. —Dissolve the milk in the water.
Rub the jam through a hair sieve in order to
remove pips. Put the ground rice into a
saucepan with the milk, bring to the boil and
cook for five minutes, stirring all the time.
Add the jam or essence and enough carmine
to colour a pale pink. Allow to get quite
cold ; it is then quite ready for putting into
freezing machine. Keep sides of freezes,
constantly scraped or the mixture will freeze
too quickly and be unpalatable.


President Wilson’s childish fear of acknow-
ledging the right makes him an easy dupe
of Hun rascality. He should, acquire moral
strength from that wise spirit King George
VI. top-notch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
One often hears the argument that heat causes
sufficient expansion of the air in a tyre to produce a
blow-out, and many car-owners thus excuse their
habit of running tyres under-inflated. Even experi-
enced garage men sometimes advise that tyres be
run at 15.t0 20 pounds lower pressure in hot weather.
It is admitted, of course, that heat does expand air
and raises the pressure in a tyre, but in its practical
effect the rise in temperature is insufficient to cause
even the slightest danger. To satisfy themselves on
this point the Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co. re-
cently made an unusually severe test, using a run-
about equipped with 32 x 4 and 815 x 105 millimetre
tyres. A very hot day was selected. The tyres were
pumped up to 801 b. with the car standing in the
cool of the garage. It was driven intermittently for
about an hour, and when not 'running was allowed to
stand in the sun. Then it was taken for a spin at
the rate of up to 40 miles an hour over a variety of
roadways including asphalt, wood blocks and just
common road. On measuring the pressure it had in-
creased. exactly four pounds. As far as the welfare
of the tyre is concerned this difference is really no
difference at all. Tyres are now built with such
high factor of safety that an increase in pressure of
many times this amount would not cause a blow-out
unless already ruined by overloading and under-
inflation. Goodyear Tyres have often been inflated
up to 30'Olb. (in tests of fabric strength) without
any damage to the tyre. The most serious variation
in tyre pressure is caused by leakage at valves,
though rubber is to a small degree porous, and will
allow air' under pressure to leak through it. A certain
amount of leakage through both inner tube and valve
is normal and to be expected. The tube may main-
tain pressure for a considerable "time, but it is never
safe to count on it. It cannot be put too' strongly
that under-inflation, not over-inflation, is the condi-
tion to guard against. The only sure way to get
big mileage is by frequent use of the tyre-pressure
gauge, which is recommended by the Goodyear and
all leading tyre-makers throughout the world of
motordom. —Advt.
TWICE
DAILY
2 p.m., 8 p.m.
WIRTHS* NEW
HIPPODROME
HAYMARKET
NOW
SHOWING
WILLIAM FOX PRESENTS AUSTRALIA’S PERFECT WOMAN,
ANNE TT E KELLE It MANN
in his Million Dollar Spectacle,
A DAUGHTER OE THE GODS.
THE MASTER PANTOMIME OF ALL TIME.
Unequalled for gorgeous magnificence.
20,000 Gnomes, Fairies, Battling Warriors and Beauties.
Transformations beggaring description.
Grown-ups will revel in its splendors—Child ren will find a realisation of their dreams of
Fairyland.
FULL OPERATIC ORCHESTRA UNDER THE BATON OF GUSTAV SLAPOFFSKI.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY. 2 p.m. and 8 p.m.
POPULAR PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Paling's.
Note. —“A Daughter of the Gods” will positively not be shown in the suburbs for. at least six
months.
KELLERMANN SEASON
SPORTING
NOTIONS
It was 12 to 1 bar one and some 100 to 1
m Sydney Tapersall’s Carrington Stakes on Saturday
an< t the animal barred was Balarang. A week
before, at the A.J.C. meeting, this horse, carrying
Bst. 111 b. in the High-weight Handicap, hurried over
six furlongs before the clock had passed lmin.
J2l sec. On Saturday he had no penalty and breasted
the barrier with 7st. 51b. among 23 others, and a
pretty slick lot they were too, Colugo, St. Rosaline,
Rosedell, La Steppe and Wedding Day being among
the company. The gelding made them look like
goats. After running a furlong he struck the front,
and going on without pressure arrived at the pole
in lmin. 11 3-ssec., the fastest-run six furlongs ever
registered in the Commonwealth, and the hottest
favorite seen at Randwiek for many moons. Bonnie
Plume and Royal Laddie were three lengths astern,
• but it really looked as if the gap was half a mile.
IV hat Balarang would have done to a Newmarket
Handicap if that event had been run last week is a
pity to think about.
About the be'st-pleased man on Randwiek race-
course on Saturday must have been John McDonald,
the Mungie Bundie studmaster. Balarang was bred
at his nine? cr.f! Bonnie Pluftie, who also first saw
the light at Mungie Bundie, was second to the
streak. Mr. McDonald owns Bonnie Plume, and
earlier in the day captured an event—Chelmsford
Handicap—with Lndv isolt. The three nags men-
tioned are not related, i.alaiang being by imported
Challenger from that great mare Lady Wallace.
Lady Isolt is by Derby winner Mountain King, from
another good racer, Isolt < M. L.), and Bonnie Plume
;s by Earlston (imp.) from Bonnie Crest. But
they all have a strain of Musket. The result was
something any breeder might be proud of.
Adrian Knox, chairman of the A.J.C., pur-
sues Costs with a long way more success
than his nags chase their oats bill. On Saturday
Three Star, on weight, recent running and appear-
ance, looked a certainty for the Denman Handicap ;
and Ikev’s offer of 3 to 1 was mentioned in Israel
without enthusiasm. But he went down again, the
despised-Naviro just struggling in ahead of Wood-
wild, who finished with a long, brilliant run. Three
Star ought to be a good horse. Yet with this race
apparently at his mercy, a furlong from home he
commenced to stop. Heaven knows what punters
have lost on him by this time, but it would have
been cheaper for them had they bought the animal
and presented the owner with something more expe-
ditious.
When horses trained by Paddy Nolan for the late
Mr.. Hebden—one of the whitest men the turf has
known—were put under the hammer by order of
the executors last September, Randwiek trainer
Billy Kelso paid 750 guineas for Narivo, a gelding.
This big price was due to Narivo having won a
couple of good races just previously at Randwiek,
and several people wanted to own him as a conse-
quence. They must all have shaken hands with
themselves that Kelso thought more of the neddy
than they did,- for until Saturday Narivo had not won
a race for his present owner, though he has been
a frequent competitor and often carried a heap of
stable confidence and money. On Saturday he was
ridden by apprentice W. Pike, brother of the once-
famoiis Jimmy. James, too, learned how to ride
under Kelso’s guidance.
Having run a first, second and third during the
month the Linacre colt Conacre came to light again
at Randwiek on Saturday and hopped over 4V fur-
longs with Bst. 91b. in 54jsecs., which happens to be
only half--a tick outside the record for the course
established by Wooralc in one of his earliest races.
At the distance Robkin, a winner over four furlongs
at Warwick Farm, looked-like taking the bacon, but
didn’t hang it out. There were 17 starters in this
event, and what a dozen of them were HoiSg there
is more than mortal man can tell. The same Teihark
applies to the couple of two-year-old races at the
A.J.C. meeting last month. There were 22" animals
released each day, and more than half of them had
no more chance of winning than flying. Apparently
the number of owners who think it does a young
horse good to parade their colors in public is grow-
ing.
Baronet Cooper’s imported Sydian has always been
suspected of liking it best when the pace is of his
own making, and what he can make it if he feels
disposed to hurry up was explained at Randwiek in
the Pace Welter. He had 9st.. 91b. aboard, and
jumping into the lead refused to wait for company
on the journey. 1-Ie was out four lengths on his
own and crossed the HnWln lmin. 39jsec-. This was
the unreliable quadruped’s first win in Australia.
* * *
On . New Year’s Day, noticing that
Sydian in the New Year Gift had the best part of a
stone less to carry than he had in the pace-welter,
the public leaped frantically at MacShortodds for
wagers. MacShortodds obliged—and Sydian did the
rest. The Cooper colors shot out from the tapes and
ran with a coupls* of lengths of daylight behind right
to the Leger, where that good but unlucky horse
Royal Laddie moved up, and Sydian, swishing his tail
in angry protest against running on, shut up like a
pub at 6 o’clock. Of all the uncertain brutes that
ever were foaled he is one of the best.
* * * *
It is up to someone to plaster the “Con-
sistency” label on hurdler Yellowboc. In her last three
starts she has had a second and two firsts in that order.
The defeat occurred at last Rosehill gathering when
Rongopai, after clearing the last hurdle alongside
Yellowboc, left her as if she had been anchored.
Yellowboc next went to Warwick Farm and secured
the Jumpers’ Flat Race. Then followed Tattersall’s
Hurdles at Randwiek on Saturday. She annexed
this event in easy style. Rongopai was favorite, but
was never in the hunt. The Maorilander was beaten
further than Abe can kick his hat after a bad day
at Randwiek—which is about a furlong.
*** * *
With the assistance of the imported
Chantemerle, Bananaland took Tatt.’s Cup this year
without much effort. But another imported nag,
Rushford, ran like a mule. Of course, the crowd
flung in on Wallace Isinglass, who never looked like
a winner, and finished third. He only did that on
sufferance, too.
“Mujik”: If the A.J.C. runs a place
machine at Randwick a considerable number of
people will get relief from a system of plunder
which simply yells for the axe. As place betting
is run now the public has no possible chance with
some of the odds merchants. In fields of 15 and 20
horses, with straightout prices ranging up to 30 to
1, the place fielders cramp the odds to a limit of 3
and 4to 1. Their favorite prices are level money,
3 to 2 and 2 to 1 against the rankest outsiders,, and
by preying on women and that large number of men
who punt in dollars they get away with hatsful. The
best price this writer could get the other day against
a 16 to 1 chance for a win was 2 to 1 for a place;
and against a 50 to 1 proposition he was offered
3 to 1. A place tote, with an even cut on 1, 2 and
3, would knock this brand of murder out, and no one
would feel inclined to put a tombstone over the
remains either.
This page hears on more or less reliable
authority that under “proper supervision” the
tote at some of the country race meetings is going
to consist of a blackboard and somebody armed with
a piece of chalk and a few tickets. If this is true
the sacred cause of fair dinkum demands at least
three things—first, that the man at the
be changed every five minutes; next, that' the chalk
be entrusted to a deacon of the local kirk ; finally,
that during the progress of. each race the blackboard
shall be audited by a chartered accountant and
surrounded by every individual on the course, each
of whom shall from the moment the horess enter
the straight until the winner of dividend are
announced keep both eyes on the arithmetic.
* •» * *
“Carfax” : In the days when good-natured
philanthropists carried on business on the Maoriland
racecourses and the public rolled up to have a go
at break-joint or Yankee sweat or something
easy like that, the tote at 2s. 6d. a ticket for the
convenience of the democracy was a regular institu-
tion as an interloping side-iine. The best hand at
tlie business was a very respectable-looking old
gentleman with benevolent whiskers. And a nice
comfortable little stunt he had. Supposing he issued
80 tickets on a race. Well, there was £lO then in
the pool. He appropriated 10s. for his services
and worked out the balance for division among
backers of the winner. If there were seven on the
winner each got £1 75., and the old gent, gave the
odd bob to the poor. That is how it worked —if it
didn’t work some other way. But if by some mis-
WARWICK ARMSTRONG (Victoria),
as he appears to the batsmen.
take the old gent, happened to hurriedly. find that
there were 14 on the winner, when everybody but
himself was yelling with excitement, then it panned
out thus: £lO 17s. 6d. allegedly in the pool;
10s. 9d. for the old gent, (ha, ha!); dividend
13s. 3d., claimed by seven backers. The seven other
backers claimed nothing—and with £5 3s. 6d. in
hdnd Old Age laughed softly up its sleeve and
began to take investments on the next race. It ran
'“for years, and you can take it from me that it was
Jtetter than selling peanuts.
The Bagot Handicap, run at Flemington
every New Year’s Day, keeps green the memory of
the first secretary of the V.R.C. Byron Moore suc-
ceeded Bagot in the job long years ago, when, by the
way, the V.R.C. voted a pension to Bagot’s widow,
which is still an item in the club’s accounts.
* * * *
The veteran owner, J. Wilson, sen., the
grand old man of the Victorian turf, had a birthday
in Christmas week. It was his 88th. Thirty-eight
years ago First Ring carried the old sportsman’s
colors to the fore in the three-miles Champion Race,
which was then run on New Year’s Day. The nag
was successful in the same race two years later. '
* * * A*. „
The V.R.C. stipendiary stewards, uncon-
scious humorists that they are, held an inquiry into
a Paralysing reversal of form at Caulfield on Boxing
Day. Two-year-old Blue Bolt was the animal in
question. His running at Moonee Valley three days
previously was the matter to be explained. At
Moonee Valley the youngster lost ground in the
betting, and cut up badly in the race. At Caulfield
things were quite otherwise. Opening at 3 to 1,
Blue Bolt advanced to even money, and won bv
several lengths. The money talked truth. The
stipes, after hearing witnesses for the defence, could
only say that they were not satisfied, but would do
nothing. They thought the jockey had been a trier
when the colt was badly beaten at Moonee, so their
finding amounted to a suggestion that the horse
was doped rather than roped. Melbourne dailies
feebly remarked that the finding put several people
in an “unpleasant position,” and gave promise of
further inquiry. But the matter seems to have been
dropped. Nothing calculated to improve the turf’s
moral tone has ever resulted from istipendiary
stewardship thus far. The salaried vigilance com-
mittee earns nothing but derision—undeserved or
otherwise.
* * * *
The Port Adelaide Racing' Club is. coming
on so well that it now has a weight-for-age race at
the Christmas Eve meeting. Mrs. Hawker’s Cyklon
being in a galloping humor, it was a soft thing for
him. Bu.t there was plenty of excitement over the
race. It was to be started by a new patent, which
includes the firing- of a gun, and the gup did not
fire. One horse was left, but the rest took the
barrier-release as a start, and ran it out. The
stipendiary stewards decided to let it stand. Then
the second horse failed by a whole pound to draw
the weight, and had to be disqualified. Cyklon
rather surprised his backers by paying 295. for a
sovereign only about 2 to 1 on. Where there is
an evident hot favorite, lots of men decline to lay
odds on, taking the chance of a big dividend on
an outsider, and thus the odds come down. The
totalisator also surprised itself and everybody else
by handling more money, by a good deal, than on
any occasion since the war started. There were some
useful dividends, the best being £35 4s. on Dr
Bennett’s Soultberg—with 30s. left over for each
backer of the second.
London Sporting Times gives an odd,
but very likely sound, reason against having stipen-
diar 3' stewards, in England. It admits that they are
successful in Australia, “where the. right sort of
independent and experienced official has been culti-
vated.” But in conservative England racing legisla-
tion remains in the hands of the aristocrats,” who
would appoint a man from their own ranks—in other
words, a “broken-down swell,” whom the professional
element would never respect, however honest he
might be.
* * * *
Melbourne Cup winner Sasanoff was given
a go with Maoriland’s crack mare Desert Gold in
the Islington Plate w.f.a., one mile, at Auckland last
week, and the lady was a length ahead at the end.
I’.ine, lmin. 38 2-ssec-. There would be more than
. three cheers for brother Lowry in Sydney if be
brought Desert Gold over to argue the point at
Randwick in the Autumn. And it would be a safe
thing to bet that, if he did, and if the mare hit
the front, the yell from Maorilanders present would
blow the grandstand roofs into the eye of the setting
sun.
* * * *
The new taxation is making Tatt.’s a
cheerful institution, and it looks as if before long
the public will be laying odds-on. As the thing
runs now, on a 25,000-ticket ss. sweep ( £5000) the
Australian citizens pay £521 to start with. Then
two separate bites each of £5OO are taken out —
and after £1521 has disappeared the 25,000 get a
chance. If there is a longer gamble on earth than
this there would be no harm in mentioning it for
the public benefit.
* * * *
Bill Squires looked in to see if he could
come back, and half an hour later Bill was knocked
up and knocked out. It happened at Sydney Stadium
on Boxing- Night. Dave Smith was the other party
to the transaction, and the crowd saw all it could
reasonably have expected. Bill was eager, game and
in poor condition. He roughed Smith all over the
ring to start with, landed some good weighty
punches, took frequent digs with the left on the
countenance, and smote the atmosphere many times
with a calm, deliberate wallop. It was a poor,
lumbering sort of scuffle by both men, with the odds
100 to 1 on Bill working himself to a standstill. By
the time the half-distance was reached he was a
worn-out, weary William—and Smith stepping up
assaulted a defenceless chin. That ended the experi-
ment. Under the circs, it was scarcely worth while.
But the cheers were for. Bill at the finish.
After having held the bantam champion-
ship a week, Vince Blackburn, the Balmain (Sydney)
youth, had to resist an attempt by Andy Maguire, of
Victoria, to become possessed thereof. They clashed
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday, and Blackburn had
a horribly narrow escape. Andy passed him some
good hard punches, boxed with courage and skill, and
generally behaved in a disrespectful manner. Black-
burn made the fight at first, but hardly showed up so
well as against Janesse. Arthur Scott gave it a
draw—and that was a fair thing. The probability
seems to be that this bantam championship is going
to cause a lot of excitement, and this page has a
notion that Blackburn has a deal of punching to do
yet before he gets a safe mortgage on the situation.
It looks as if Australia’s old acquaintance
Sam McVea will have to hunt round soon for a
chicken farm or a long-handled shovel to keep the
wolf from the door. Samuel was at Santiago de
Chile in September, and undertook to enter into a
disturbance with one Professor Devere in aid of the
funds of the Asylum of the Guardian Angels. ’Hie
learned professor took what was coming to hint in
the interests of Biff and Benevolence, and so great
was the rush to gaze on Samuel that the poor and
ilie suffering and the widow and the fatherless got
just £ll.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” (from Argentina) : The
recent Yankee pug. invasion of South America has
been a hard frost. Sam Langford, Sam McVea and
one or two more, finding nothing doing, shook the
dust of Buenos Aires off their feet and lit out for
Chile last week in the hope of connecting with a
few shin-plasters to keep thff wolf from the door.
The most notable thing about this great influx of
piebald pug. is that none of it seems anxious to get
after our own Jack Murray and his championship of
S. America.
* * * *
An old Sydney sport passed out last week
in his 73rd year—William Broughton Young. He
was an old Sydneyite, nephew of Joshua Young, one
of the city’s early softsgoodsmen. Chiefly he “was
identified with yachting and Rugby football, being
one of the old Wallaroos in the days of Monty and
Dick Arnold and Henry Brady.
* * # •
Frederick J. Brierley, who died the other
day at Cheltenham (N.S.W.), aged 44, was best
known as a stud-poultry breeder ; but a fortnight
before his death he won the championship cup of the
local bowling club to put alongside the innumerable
poultry prizes on his sideboard. A. B. Shand, K.C.,
is a brother-in-law. »
* * * »
Chief Justice John Madden (Vic.) has
worn on one of his fingers for many years a plain
gold band that was presented to him by his friends
to commemorate a successful tip for Flemington
which he' made after a remarkable dream.
* * * * -
With just a little luck, Norman Dodds,
who died at Hobart last week, would have had a
trip with the last Australian XI. He was the finest
wicketkeeper the Flyspeck produced, and also one of
the best batsmen ; but missing the limelight on the
mainland, dodged the selectors. The only “big”
cricket chance that came his way was a trip to
Maorilaiul with a seratched-up team, and in that he
quite justified himself.
* * * *•
H. Burrows, who put a little sparkle into
Vic. cricket the other day by taking 10 wickets for
seven runs in one innings, was a fine bowler in- tin*
long ago. It looks uncommonly as if the young old-
, chap was picking up his punch again.
F. Baring’s 144 (out of 299) at Mel-
bourne last week, was the highest individual effort
in Victorian “big” cricket this season. Baring was
going great guns in inter-State cricket when the war
interrupted the game. In premiership cricket last
season he piled up 525 at an average of 47.72 (with-
out a “riQt out”). For the other side, Warwick
Armstrong added 125 (out of 282) to his accumulated
thousands.
* # * *
An Albany-Armadale (AY.A.) motor-car
road-record which withstood onslaught for a long
while has been battered by Anderson Adams, driving
a 35-h.p. Overland over the 238 miles in shrs. 25min.
The 44-m.p.h, speed is claimed to be a long-distance
Australian record. Still, all Westralian record bursts
don’t get into “the book.” Friedman’s recent Perth-
Kalgoorlie 365-mile spin in 13hrs. 45min., although
two hours inside the previous best, is not to be
officially reeoghised owing to the Westralian Automo-
bile Club not doing the checking. All that the
Club could do was to hand out the cold honor of
congratulation.
Hydroplane racing is now a regular
feature of the regatta at Milang, on the lake near
the mouth of the Murray. The competition is
limited, but keen. This year Rymill’s 200-h.p.
Tortoise gave McFarlane’s Millawa 17sec. start and
an eight seconds’ beating over a 15-mile course.
Time, 23min. 52sec. These machines take time to
get going, so a single mile, even though over a
straight course and with a flying start, took the
comparatively slow clocking of lmin. 42sec.
* * * *
Victoria knows how bowls should be
rolled. During Christmas week her teams defeated*
South AuS"., in Melbourne, and Northern Tasmania, in
Launceston, winning the rubber on each occasion by
two out of three. Is it the climate or the flatness
of Melbourne or the mildness of the whisky that 's
the cause of the skill of the old ’uns of the Yarra?
Or the prevalence of cricket among the youngsters—
especially the youngsters of 20. years ago?
“F.L.J.” : The padre does all sorts of jobs
on active service. But I guess our man; Captain-
chaplain Bossence (R.C.), went a bit further than
most of them when he judged the boxing in the
sports on our troopship. And he .had a bit to do,
too, for there were 400 entries and £7O prize-
money.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: Talking of walks (B.
28/12/’l6), how about that IO'OO miles in IOO'O hours
undertaken and completed by Mrs. Douglass in Mel-
bourne, in or about 1860, at the old Princess’s —or
was it at the Prince of Wales in Lonsdale-street ?
She was the wife of an old theatrical prompter who
had become paralysed. The introducer of this sort
of show was Allan McKean, who, at Victoria Theatre,
Ballarat, on September 19, 1858, commenced the feat
(or whatever you like to call it'), of walking 1000
miles in 1000 hours and finished on Nov. 27 at 10
o'clock, doing the last mile in 22J minutes.
* * * *
“John McLaren” : I met a man who was
doing a pretty good whlk, too. I made his acquaint-
ance during a wet season from the box seat of the
coach that bi-weekly ploughs through red mud
between Einasleigh and the Oaks Rush (N.Q.). He
was a little,' sandy-whiskered man in a nondescript
hat, muddy pants and a torn shirt, and he was
pushing a wheelbarrow overflowing with billycans,
frying-pan, swag, pick and shovel and other pros-
pecting paraphernalia. The coach-driver pulled up
to inquire the state of the road further on, and I
asked the man with the barrow where he was going.
He replied, nonchalantly, that, as his claim on the
Oaks had “duffered,” he was going prospecting
“about 40 mile out this way.” He pointed in an
indefinite direction at the virgin bush. As our
straining horses swung into their collars again I
looked back at the, wiry little figure in the dis-
reputable hat struggling with the handles of his
barrow and forcing’, a way through the heavy mud in
the direction of ‘About 40 mile out this way,” all
alone in an effort "to find a field to compensate for
his worked-out claim on the Oaks, and I heard the.
big, genial driveiY remark forcibly: “S’truth ! He’s
got guts!”


To Have a Knowledge
of Boxing'
should be the aim of every man. In the hour of ne ■
knowledge proves one’s greatest friend. Are you able to ta
own part—-to defend yourself against the attacks of rough a
aggressive men? A scientific knowledge of boxing will enable you to
deliver a sound punishment to any inexperienced bully who may cross
your path—to assert your manliness in the hour of need.
1 TEACH BOXING BY POST
teach it in a thorough, scientific and practical
manner Now don’t get the idea that I teach you only
the theory, because that’s not so. Under, my guidance
von will learn how to make all the hits, stops and
'“moves” of the world’s most scientific boxers.
You’ve no excuse for remaining crude and inexperienced,
a good target for the first bully who t°™ents you Let
me make you a cool, determined, scientific boxei, with a
substantial punch and effective guard— a manly man,
well able to look after yourself and win the respect of
others. ... . ,
What a delightful pastime you’ll find my tuition . W hat
a valuable exercise for. body and brain !
AVrite your name and address across this advertisement,
and post it to me, and I will send you my interesting
booklet. “Scientific Boxing m Your Home, which tells
all about my methods, tuition fees, etc. Please send
fd-onine ■fnv HBSi’.ilP'P.
dg
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
567 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
An Excellent Smoke—
MY CIGARILLOS
MM
Their great popularity is due
to their high quality. Their
flavor and aroma are
delicious—the same as you
get in a shilling HAVANA
Cigar.
Made' in three sizes,
but all one quality.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/6 2/3 2 -
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No, No. No.
1 2. 3.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11/- 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
N.S.W. 6d.
\ Other States Bd.
Write for a
Free Copy of
my Illustrated
Catalog of
Cigars, Cigar-
ettes, Tobacco,
Actual Size of Cigarillos. etc.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
To Assist Inventors.
Patentslnvestigation Board
Established by the Government of New South Wales.
PROSPECTUS on application to the Sec-
retary, Patents Investigation Board, 16
Carrington St., Sydney. Telephone 1989 City.
HH
ITT
SHELL-
BENZINE
iHELL'-
•nzine-
?HEU.
fd
g
[SHELI
IbenzineJ
o
It
u
Solo
The Machine Supreme
for Australian Roads
%
c
—or
Sidecar
Catalogue "U” with pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Zl:. Russell St., Melbourne
fdg
d
=ceii'i’ ’i'* ut t uttiFi
gdf
Nickel plated, silver plated and brass
faucets are kept laughingly bright
without trouble by this wonder polish.
Two sizes. Sold by all Grocery, Hard-
ware and Dr ug Stores.
Look for Photo on Can
KING OF METAL POLI SH
g
YOUR FOOTWEAR
If comfort, smart styles, and great ser-
viceability appeal to you in footwear, you
will be highly pleased with
RIGNEY SHOES.
The illustration shows a very high-grade Box
Calf Bal.,
Price - 27i6
In Choice Tan Willow Calf 27/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive Hieh-*rade Shoe Parlors,’
317 George Street and 179» Pitt Street, JTMH.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBA.
/
i
*
<#
♦
THE BEST FOR ALL
.Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
111! Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
A
AV . pffv^
W
&
43
i
Horsemen!
IT WILL PAY YOU to get in touch with us
when you next need Riding Trousers or Breeches.
Our quotations below exemplify the Values we
offer.
••L.S.” “L.S.”
Riding Tr’s, 12/6 Judhpores, 22/6
(Tailored to (Tailored to
Measure). Measure).
In Medium-weight
Khaki Drill (as
supplied to the
Military Forces) —
guaranteed to give
Seasons of Wear.
Will not soil
easily, and Im-
proves in the
Wash. Regulation
Riding Out —Full
Seat —Tapered to
\ nkle —• Fitting
losely over Boot.
In Medium-weight
Khaki Drill of
the same quality
as used in the
Trousers. Style as
shown, which does
away with the
necessity of Wear-
ing Leggings. Cor-
rectly and Com-
fortably Cut and
Tailor -made
throughout. Un-
equalled for Ser-
vice.
atiiii
r
WRITE FOR PATTERNS
—they’ll reach you by return, Post
Paid, together with a copy of our
Mail-Order Catalog’, Self-Measurement
Forms, Tapes, etc.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
PTY. LTD.,
“ Mail-Order Tailors & Outfitters,”
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbouru.


•Ti
MARBLE’S Safety Pocket
Axe. Practical—perfectly
balanced—tough and keen. The
blade is made of best tool steel \
carefully tempered and sharpened. ,
spring-hinged guard is
lined with soft lead and folds evenly
into the handle.
■ MARBLE’S Woodcraft '
Hunting Knife has been
[especially designed for
many uses : Adapted for stick-
ing, skinning or clearing un-
derbrush. A new knife com-
bining the skill and ken o f
world’s leading outers.
MARBLE’S Waterproof
Match Box sometimes
a life saver.
See these goods at your dealer.
Write for complete
illustrated catalog of
MARBLE’S "Sixty
Sporting Specialties.”
sent postpaid.
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co.
■ 611. Delta Avenue
Gladstone, Michigan, U.S.A,
Cable Address "MARBLE”
Gladstone.
Australian & New Zealand Rep'sent’s
HARRY IBOLDEN, Box 1349, SYDNEY
fdg
fdg
dfg
GOITRE
SUFFERERS!
Doig's Goitre Treatment sel-
dom fails to give complete
relief and to reduce the neck
to its normal graceful shape.
It has succeeded in manv
obstinate cases, where all
ot her methods failed. Easv
to take. Does not affect the
the most delicate constitu-
tion. Over 3000 successes to
its credit. For particulars write
A. DOIG (Australia) LTD. ——
Manufacturing Chemists, 197rP Lambton Quay
Wellington, N.Z. Bankers: Bank of N.Z.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when veu press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression ?
If so, under the skir you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you--of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Ivnee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farrincrdon St.,
LONDON, Eng;.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, Just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking: Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
fg
With 5 0 Q tj n
Drawers, I© I US.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne.
VICTORIA.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin .takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
fdg
fd
BOOTS are the smart wear for the season
—-Dame Fashion has cast that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
m the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet 'not
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
Picnics and excursions in the most' blazing
weather.
Hotock No.
P 6 i
<§>
m
m
ssm
m
1
mi
.
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock. - ’
QO >2
A charming- selection of Bostock shoes
always on view at all leading stores.
gfd
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK. Your Boots—
and they will shine better, and brighter, and last longer.
ROSTOCK’S POLISH is more than a brilliant shoe polish—it’s a leather
preserver also.
Colors: Black, Brown; Dark Brown and White.
In tins, 6d. Creams: .In 2oz. tubes, 4oz. bottles, 1/-
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
COMMONWEALTH
L
OF AUSTRALIA.
£18,000,000 # per cent. WAR LOAN, 1925.
SUBSCRIPTION LIST CLOSES Bth FEBRUARY. 1917.
The Loan is -for WAR purposes only,
BONDS will be issued in amounts of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO, payable to bearer,
and may be transferred FREE of BOTH STATE AND COMMONWEALTH STAMP DUTIES.
INSCRIBED STOCK will be issued in amounts of £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO. Stock
on transfer will require to be so inscribed, and will also be FREE of all STAMP DUTY.
BONDS and INSCRIBED STOCK will be exempt from the operation of the
Wealth Levy.
INTEREST is payable half-yearly , is FREE of STATE and COMMONWEALTH TAX, is payable
free of exchange at any Bank or State Savings Bank.
THE COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA is authorised on behalf of the TREASURER
OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA to receive applications for the above Loan.
SUBSCRIPTIONS payable as under; —
£lO per cent, on application
£lO ~ ~ Ist March, 1917
£lO „ „ 2nd April, 1917
£lO „ „ Ist May, 1917
£lO ~ ~ Ist June, 1917
£lO per cent. 2nd July, 1917
£lO „ ~ Ist August, 1917
£lO ~ ~ 3rd September,l9l7
£lO ~ „ Ist October, 1917
£lO ~ „ Ist November, 1917
Interest amounting to £3 15s. on each £lOO subscribed will be paid on 15th December,
1917, and thereafter will be paid half-yearly, at the rate of 4$ per cent, per annum
If the deposit and all instalments of the amount subscribed are paid in full on or before
Bth February 1917, interest amounting to £2 ss. on each £lOO subscribed will be paid on 15th
June, 1917, and thereafter interest will be paid half-yearly at the rate of 4 J percent, per annum.
APPLICATIONS accompanied by deposit of £lO per cent., will be received at any Rranch of
the Commonwealth Bank of Australia or at any Bank, State Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office, or through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange. Instalments payable similarly.
Prosperous, Applicntion Forms, and all particulars at any Bank, State Savings
Bank or Money Order Pobt Office.
Help your Country win the War.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, S3rd December. 1916.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL 8l SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick's. Horlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
[TRY IT AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN
I
S^ANOTRAVtUg
*o*
We are still devising new ways of wasting
money. We have film censors nowadays ; but
it isn’t sufficient to have one censor foi> Aus-
tralia. Each State must have its own
official, with the stupid result that a film
which was ruled out promptly in Sydney is
being shown in Brisbane at this moment.
Incidentally, what about a new incidence of
film taxation V At present, a tax of so much
per ticket has to he paid by the manager —
which is to say by his patrons-—no matter
what the nature of the film. This is all
wrong. There are some film shows that the
public ought to be encouraged to attend ; and
rather than tax them it would be better to
take, a cut out of every archbishop’s collec-
tion-plate. If the censor isn’t too busy, let
him classify the goods and let the tax he
graduated accordingly—from genuine indus-
trials free up to £lO a foot for seductions.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :—-
History is repeating itself. The Custom House in
Sydney is to be reconstructed on a grand scale, and
the job is already being flocked to by men whom the
bursting of the State's borrowing boom has thrown
on the rocks. The site is at the very door of the
port of Sydney, and the first Customs building was
erected there in 1844 in another time of great stress.
It was built by Governor Gipps, mostly to give work,
and no distinction was made in regard to artisans —
stonemasons, laborers and all the rest of them got
2s. 6d. per day, and no more.
Rupert Inglis, Anglican chaplain in the
8.E.F., who was killed by shell-fire while
helping to bring in wounded at the Somme,
was centre forward in the' Oxford Rugby
football team of 1882. C. G. Wade, of the
Ma State, played three-quarter in the same
team, and both he and Inglis were members
of the English international 15. Inglis, who
married a Miss Gilchrist, of Melbourne, had
been a village rector in Kent for some years.
He was 52.
An Irish-born officer of Australian Light
Horse sizes up his native land after 16
years’ absence: —
The country is sadly different. Beautiful Dublin
is in ruins, and the country is desolate. You can
drive all day and never see a soul except old, old
people. Grey skies, grey houses and grey old people.
The spontaneity of the Irish is gone. The country
reeks with dissension and hatred. War and the gin'll
Feiners, misrule and misunderstanding have pressed
on her with a heavy hand, deepening the old scars of
bygone years and inflicting many new ones that will
last as long. I don’t wish to enter into politics, but
would to God England could find some man of imagi-
nation and sympathy to handle Irish affairs ! Someone
to give a square deal, not as a bone thrown to a
dog, but as an earnest effort to compensate for the
injustice and oppression of the past. Produce a man
like that, and England would have no stronger ally.
But while there is one code of laws for the North
and another for the rest of Ireland, whilst some are
honored for deeds for which other men are shot,
whilst Ireland in peace is treated as a joke and in
rebellion with merciless severity, there can be no
hope. Clouds are gathering now throughout the
country, and I am afraid that, unless they are dis-
persed by the sunshine of understanding, they will
outshadow those of the recent Sinn Fein rebellion.
Poor Ireland!
The cableman continues to corrupt us with
lies. Of the German steamrolling of Rou-
mania says he :
The oil-wells at Ploeschi (which are now in the
enemy’s possession) were destroyed so thoroughly
that it will take a year to put them in working
order.
If the oil wells are “destroyed thoroughly”
or at all they won’t be put in order for 2500
years. But there is nothing to stop the
drilling of new wells, and unless the oil is
seven miles deep it’s no 12 months’ job.
The record in California for well-drilling is
2391 ft. in seven days. In the face of that
along comes this comforting liar with his
tale of 12 months. It isn't half the sentence
lie should have.
A recent local case shows that the
wanderings of a bottled letter can give even
the Postal Department points in divagation
—a feat hitherto deemed impossible. Lance-
Corporal Fagg, of Euroa, who left in Octo-
ber, dropped the usual bottle into the sea.
The message it contained reached his rela-
tives, but to do so it had first to come
ashore, then to be handled in its glass en-
velope by an unsuspecting bottle-oh, and
then to go. still undiscovered, to an aerated;
water factory. Here it was found by the
man who was cleaning the bottle for re-publi-
cation. He handed the note to his mother,
who in turn sent it to its destination, which
it reached on December 5.
having seen his sons for two years,
yVilliam Anthony, of North Melbourne,
joined the 23rd Howitzer Battery, and in
due course found himself in camp at Salis-
bury Plain. At the end of a hard day’s
drill he was musing on the whereabouts of
his younger boy Bill, who had left Aus-
tralia with the Second Field Ambulance.
Suddenly the father’s thoughts were inter-
rupted by “Hello, Dad!” and David stood
before him. The pair obtained week-end
leave and went to London. Anthony senior
arranging to meet Dave there. When he
turned up lie found both Dave and Bill on
the station. Bill had got 10 days’ leave
from France, where he had had a hot time
in Pozieres. The reunion of the soldiers
three made the return of the Prodigal Son
look like a vagrant surrendering to his bail.
Reginald Morgan, who died of wounds in
France the other day, was organist and
choirmaster of an Anglican church in the
Glebe (Sydney) till he enlisted last year.
A few weeks before his death lie had won
the Military Medal for gallantry in the
Somme disturbance.
The history of Armageddon will contain
no incident more humorous than that of the
disabled Zeppelin and its crew that came to
earth in Essex in the middle of the night.
The Huns hurried to the nearest farmhouse,
woke the occupant of his first sleep, and
cried with the voice of the spokesman: “Ve
vos brisoners of var, you understant.” The
descent from frightfulness to funk!
MY MORNING LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You died—you always die,
My love—and yet I do not sigh.
The roaring sun comes upward from the East,
And, as I scent the dew, 1 know, at least,
That dark has gone. And all the low’ring gloom
Is blazoned by the scarlet. poppies’ bloom.
H.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


>4
1
JTieve is a
pface in jjour
Rome ftiu the •
BEALE
KALOPHGNE
*lfio Instrument - -
that recreates the
best music in the-
besf way. "ftear
one at our showrooms
Q
m
IS
-MM, mi '.."U'MIimP I ,
•‘ ll ' A\ w ,u u.
/.i.
/ \H\\, | ,
m
/All
it
itilß
Prl
* i-i vm\\\
m *
■
m
rnrfTtffl
/I
a
==tJl i
im-
m
m
y.mJ
M:
1
\v~^
x . iW m %'hll
M
\Jj"
I 1 4/
' m
(I N
StyU
Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
232 KING ST., NEWTOWN
M^eale
G
Factories:
41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET,
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY
, r iL Wagca Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart
And at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Lioulburn, wagga. , , nn m c D , , M r „u nrn , lo k
C 1 A 1- t FvanA Itd Adelaide. Queensland: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane. Kent Street. Maryborough,
Maples, Launceston. South Australia : John tvans Ltd. rtaeiaiae.
Street Townsville. Rockhampton. Sydney Street, Mackay. Cairns.


!!!! III! IU
m
ULiiHin.vi.Hi
\
He cannot bear the sight!
of food
Eating produces Nausea, Heartburn, Acid
Risings in the Throat, Flatulence and Vomiting
undigested food. When he reads or applies
himself to business his eyes ache and burn, and
he get pains in the head. His mind is listless '
and memory impaired. The vigor of life has
departed—he sees no use in making an effort,
gives way to despair and is tired of life. But
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIO
at once attacks all these symptoms. One by one
they disappear and he feels a new man. Fishers
Phospherine energises the whole system and can
be taken with benefit by sufferers from Indigestion,
Acidity, Muscular Rheumatism, Backache, Mal-
aria, Headache, Brain Fag, Nervousness and
Neuralgia.
All Chemists and Stores.
1 /• per Bottle. Four times the quantity, 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FIS7P
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing 1 Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
gfd
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
v , ■ , and Powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
?hi U iw dn ‘'f’ in ?J a ntly Changed by a touch of
? ult hearing on every occasion,
and for all stage» of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
Meara Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalog's and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON g CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowel?
r'egular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
g
Carters!
Smail Pill-Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
fdg
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:-
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
fd
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines manv of our
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles —the
dippy pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip, our
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather points,
the long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leathers,
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGRE. The
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
io any port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct port
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE, with rein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free, for
cash. If ’ered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER U STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Harness Makers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney.
enutii
Hints
7
k'3
the, secret of a
good COMPLEXION
By MME. ST. CLAIRE.
A;v i woman nowadays may quickly reju-
venate her complexion at home by a safe and
painless process of gentle absorption. The
days of expensive and dangerous “operations”
are past, and each woman can be her own
beauty doctor. It has been discovered that
ordinary mercolised wax, applied like cold
i-V" j* 111 ' will cause the thin veil of
lifeless, sallow or blotchy cuticle to gradually
and gently flake off in invisible, flour-like
particles, revealing the fresh, vigorous and
beautiful young skin underneath. Mercolised
vvax absorbs only the unhealthy and un-
sightly outer film, and does not affect the
healthy tissue at all.
Ihe process defies detection, and unveils
a lasting and beautiful complexion, which is,
of course, a perfectly natural one. For this
purpose thousands of women are now using
mercolised wax, which may be obtained at
any chemist s. Naturally the process also
removes all such surface blemishes as
freckles, blotches, pimples, tan, liver spots,
etc. It makes the face look years younger
and prettier, and renders the use of face
creams unnecessary.
Another valuable piece of information,
which many women will appreciate, concerns
the success of the new treatment for super-
fluous hair. A remedy for permanently erad-
icating this ugly form of facial disfigurement
no w seems to have been found. It is simpli-
city itself. About one ounce of ordinary pure
powdered pheminol, which can be obtained
at any chemist’s, is all that is needed to put
one in the way of completely ridding oneself
of superfluous hair. When applied to the
obnoxious growth this causes it to immedi-
ately disappear, and the continuance of the
recommended treatment is said to finally
destroy the hair roots, so that there fill be
no renewal of the trnwHi ret
a"< WOUMjAIBHIV *
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
1
■J
THE “SKANDIA” IN WEST AUSTRALIA.
PEARLING SCHOONER—3O-h.p. “SKANDIA.”
NELSON $ ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
2\o notice (except of a hostile character) ■ will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.W.M. : Don’t believe in The Bulletin
leader who called himself a “colonial.” It must
have been Tit Bits he wanted S.L. : Nivelle
seems to be a general of parts:—
“Charge!” lip says in Iris French tongue,
And with liis sword he punctures the lung
Of a puffed-up Germ.,
AY ho wriggles like a worm,
And falls flop in the trench;*
! o the earth bids farewell, 'tis a horrible wrench '
Two miles by seven, claims good old Nivelle :
It means several miles for the Kaiser on to Hell!
• ■.. Reject: And .still it’s “not up”. .. . N.A’.AAL:
" hat the deuce do you mean by saying that the
sires of the Anzaes look out from “Dardan’s rugged
heights” ? -Some of them look out from the flat at
A\ oolloomooloo. . . .C.P.11.: Die any time you like;
but don’t murder us with commonplace lines that
end in a bump A.S.: “Cupid and Car” makes
dull reading. . . .P.M.: Crude little thing. .. .C.F.M.:
We’ll let you describe morning:—
The morn that brings us joyful time,
Sunny showers and healthy clime,
That clothes the earth and crystal sea
And fills all hearts with melody ;
The birds, in unitee and throng
Doth fill the earth with cherished song.
... W.M.C.K.: Commonplace. .. .T.AV.W.: You’ll
have to take your, own advice and do better—a lot
better.... Giux: Not well enough done... . D.C.D.:
Clumsy All Australia: Put name and address on
all copy and don t waste time writing covering let-
ters. .. .F.T. : Too small... .S.V.IL: “AVar Woe” is
just a bunch of words, without rhyme or rhythm,
containing a most obvious idea. .. . A.M.: AVel], if
your soul cries “go to me,” you’d better go to you
.. . . G.S.: First verse has-no rhymes, AY’hy bother
later 0n?....A.R.: A four-line verse should have
four rhymes unless there is something very excep-
tional about it. This paper doesn’t encourage lazi-
ness S.B. :• Nothing in them...,St. J. : Doesn't
work. . . .N.G. : Hough stuff with no feeling....
N.K.: It jumbles all out of tune and sense. .. .J.F.;
Australian Soldiers” have done nothing to deserve
verse sort.... J.W.: “Inversion” has one
verse that is almost decent.... Eb.: Amusing, but
too rugged H.H.: A bit rough; and the idea
occurred to R. Kipling some time ago.. G J • And
was that all ?.... R.T.: You have to worry back a
century and a half to find a theme for verse like
that! 11. C.: No life in it. Only a series of jerks
ending in a jolt. .. . J.8.T.: Awful stuff. Those
alphabetic rhymes would provoke murder
D.G.Mc.: Poor yarn ; rotten verse.... A.A.8.: The
Yew Year feeling prevents our saying all we think
about it R.S.T.: Not nearly up Redhare: Hor-
rible 11.J.8.: Triolets want doing better than
that. . A P.G.; No good at all. ...N.M.S.: Lame
.-■nd foolish G.R.H.: Doesn’t amount to much....
H. V.S.: None of them up J.AV.: We don’t re-
print; and that wouldn’t tempt us to break the
rule. . . .ILL.AY.: Dreary verse without a fresh idea.
• ...t.1.P.. Good, but not quite good enough. You
have the feeling and the music; get more force
5.A.15.; The usual twaddle with more than the usual
smirk.... T.P.T.: Do make one line scan properly
next tune. .. .AY.J.S.: “Credo” misses. .. .Jasper B. :
. o flight in it... . S.D.Mc.: Small varn to be told
m a shocked whisper after the parson’s visit....
ILL.II : It sounds like a nursery rhyme that some-
now g*ot religion” :
Old man, old man,
Whither do you wander?
The night is wild,
The storm rises yonder.
Shelter and rest yourself while vet you may •
(lour old limbs are weary),
Dear wanderer, stay.
Dick,Clay: Read the book Merrigal: Thanks.
. ...H.G.J.: All been said several times in The
Bi uletin. .. .C.8.K.: Sorry can’t oblige.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.lv.: If he hasn’t had lessons he needs them.'...
G.K.: Very'large and uninteresting. ... L.F.R, : Sorry,
cant use it. . . .R.H.R.: None of your funny wood-
cuts here!. . . .R. 8.: We sympathise with you, but
can’t bless your art. . . .C.R.: Nothing there of am-
use to us. . . .1.M.D.5.: No go. .. .Frank J.: It is
old, Father AVilliam J.AV.: Don’t care for either :
the wooden parent or the graven child... .Trier: The
second besotted individual would not make such
an elaborate joke Sando: Promise in it. Go
on R.L.AAT: Did you design tapestries in the
Middle Ages? R.F.: Your peace effort fails
P.. Crude and without any visible meaning Fitz-
Unsuitable. .. . J.E.N.: N 0.... Will L. : If your out-
lines are wrong innumerable scratches inside them
won’t conceal the dreadful fact V.G.: Small-boy
drawing. .. . J.G.C.: Out of court.
‘Carfax” hands in a confession:—
the suburban air was full of mosquitoes and
mud blaring- noises made by euphoniums, trombones
and cornets. It was the eve of Christmas Day, and
I lay on a bed of torture, eaten by buzzing animals
and maddened by musicians. Heaven only knows
how many bands were at large, but at one' moment
the strains of “The Rosary” were wafted from 17
places. At midnight a band arrived opposite the
iront gate and projected six carols into the pre-
mises. They woke the kids, who immediately dived
tor their stockings, produced 34 buzzers, Noah’s Arks
and squeaking dolls, and started a rival riot. After
strenuous exertion the uproar inside was quelled
with lemonade and a razor-strop, and outside by
2s - 6d - Two _ hol, rs later another band drifted to
close range with a 15-h.p.. edition of “Hark, Hark
the Shark,” or something. I was sane, cold and cal-
culating now. Throwing wide the dooi's I invited
the wretches to come within and drink. ' They
came, each with his awful implement under his
arm and on his dial the guilty look of one who has
assassinated a goddess. And as they entered the
door 1, the son of a race of Puritans, executed sum-
mary jurisdiction under the War Precautions Act
with a tomahawk. Then when the last had fallen
in his tracks.l dragged the corpses outside into the
yard, set ’em alight, gave the kids the musical in-
struments and went back to bed with blood on my
hands, the smell of frying musician in my nostrils,
and my soul filled with the sense of a social duty
well performed. It is only by resort to direct action
that these prowling noise-mongers and outragers of
the night can be got rid of. They are utterly
irrelevant, and usdless. What good citizen wants
people who sneak about in the gloom with 'trom-
bones? No one has missed that band. The news-
papers have not heard of it. The John-Hops know
nothing of what happened. But they were assassi-
nated and cremated right enough—and next time the
job will be done with a machine-gun in the open
air.


1890
1917
Heiron <&. Smith Ltd.
You can own a
Cottage Billiard Table
for 2/6 Weekly.
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
London, Sydney, Brisbane
and throughout Australasia
You can own a
Cottage Billiard Table
for 2/6 Weekly.
O PUNCH HOLES r\
TO HANG UP.
You can have a
Cottage Billiard
Table for 2/6 a
week.
Why hesitate?
Ileiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
A cue gives
more content-
ment than a
pipe—try it.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd
Sydney & Brisbane.
FEBRUARY, 1917
. :: 411 1828
Mon 1 9 18 22 29
Tue 2 91623 30
Wed 3 1 O > 7 24 31
Thu 4 11 1825
Fn 8 12 1929
Sai e 1320 27 .
Mon. S 1 2 19 28
Tues. :: 51320 27
Wed :: 71421 28
Thn. 1 8 IB 22 r.
Fn. 2 910 23 .
Sul 3101 7 24 .
Billiards are
just a higher
form of culture
Don’t argue —
but play
Cottage Billiards
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.
Sydney & Brisbane.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
APRIL, 1917
Sun 1 81522 29
Mon 2 916 23 30
Tm 3 10 17 24
Wed 41 1 18 25 .
Thu 512 1929 .
K n. 6 13 20 27 >
tal 714 21 28 . .
MAY. 1917
Sun. a 1 3 20 27
Mon. 7 14 21 28
Tue. 1 815 2229
Wed. 2 916 23 30
Thu. 3 lO 17 24 31
Fn 4 1 1 18 25 -
VI! 5 1 2 19 28 :
Form strong
home habits —
play Cottage
Billiards.
Cottage Billiards
is a game that
never grows old.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.
Sydney & Brisbane.
JULY, 1917
Sim 1 81822 29
Mon 2 918 23 30
Tue 3 lO 17 24 31
Wed. 4 11 18 2B
Thu B 12 19 26 ;
Fn. 613 20 27 :
Sal 714 21 28 .
AUGUST 1917
5 12 19 26
6 13 20 27
7 14 21 28
1 81522 29
2 9 16 23 30
3 lO 17 24 31
4 1 1 18 25
Tue.
Wed
There are no
chances with
Heiron & Smith,
Ltd., tips l —3/6
a box.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Cottage Billiards
are a good home
investment and
cheaper than
Picture Shows.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
OCTOBER. 1917
tun. 7 14 21 28
Mon.. 1 81522 29
Tm 2 91633 30
Wed 3 lO 17 24 31
Thu. 4 11 18 25
Fn 5121929 .
Sal. 013 20-27
NOVEMBER. 1917
:: 411 18 20
n. 5 12 19 26
ft. 0 13 20 27
Wed.'.-. 714 2128
». 1 815 22 29
. 2 9 18-23 30
Mon
tuts
Thu
a lO 17 24
Cottage Billiards
are a Domestic
Economy.
Billiard Tables
made to fit any
size room.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Keeps men at
home, even
Husbands.
MARCH. 1917
:: 411 IS 25
S 12 19 26
r. 61320 27
7 14 21 28
1 81522 29
2 910 23 30
3 lO 17 24 31
Heiron & Smith, Ltd
Sydney & Brisbane.
Cottage Billiards
are like good
drama staged at
home.
Pianos taken in
part payment
for Cottage
Tables.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Heiron&Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Cultivate the
Cottage Billiard
Habit, it
brightens the
home.
Wed. v.
Heiron&Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Play the game
and the game is
yours.
Cottage Billiards
keen you playing
all the time.
Heiron&Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Cottage Billiards
maketh the
contented man.
SEPTEMBER, 1917
i 30 2 916 23
in. ,3 10 17 24
le. 4 11 18 25
. d. 5 12 19 20
» 6 13 20 27
i. :: 7 14 21 28
l. 1 8 1 6 22 29
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Better to use a
Heiron & Smith
tip than a tip
for the races.
Who plays the
Silent piano?
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
You can have a
Cottage Billiard
Table for 2/6 a
week. Why
hesitate ?
Wed
Heiron & Smith, Ltd.,
Sydney & Brisbane.
f)
(COPYRIGHT.)
OUR Novelty Chess and Draughts Combination Calendar for 1917. Cut this out, mount on cardboard, and hang
on wall as a Calendar when not in use for a parlor game. There is only one better game—Cottage
Send for our Book of Cottage Billiard Tables, Post Free.
Heiron ®. vSmith Ltd.
Showrooms: 214 Castlereagh Street,
397 George Street j* SYDNEY.
507-509 Queen Street, Brisbane.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR ATT
. Geared Turbine
. . Triple-Screw
. .Twin-Screw
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12,130
12.129
12.124
12.077
12,036
9,023
8,282
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin*s-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms;
1 rivate Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regu!ar sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailing's as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEV
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
*ROCKIIAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
south.
COOMA (4000 tons). .
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 6.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 10.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 13.
BURAVAH (Cargo Only).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 17.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 20.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
*Passengers only.
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 20.
Full Particulars
HOWARD SMITH
ve Fares, Freights, etc., from
LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies, & Ck
THE
Bank of North Queensland
IjIIMITICI)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Diukctors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C M G
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Man Anna: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Hrisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 Ceorge Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES
'THROUGHOUT THE W
ALL USUAL BANKING
IRLD.
BUSINESS.
AGEN'TS
TRANSACTS
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
a £ 1909 under the Companies Act.)
sßmcbiß ca, T al •• •• rA°XI
i^F^r: 1916 ) :: £l iK 3 O
HEAD OFFICE: George* Km<r Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Thread needle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark SiiEtnox, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
, Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F
lomian, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
New C^i th H° Ugh °H nt n hc , Aus tralian Commonwealth,
World 2 1 d Q. g gLSTg..^
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921
Subscribed Capital .. . ~£B oo>o oo 0 0
L n, r Mp C «Pital 480.000 0 0
Reserve fund 212.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
AU new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman);
rf. 011 ' iru tV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jfs. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
| General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland^
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
TM Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [imited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up
■ Reserve Fund'
• Reserve Capital
!
. £2,000,000 0
1,875,000 0
. 2,000,000 0
£5,875,000 0
V
Directors;
(leorge J . Cohen, Esq. . . Chairman
Hon. H. E. Katkp., M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
; Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C
Hein. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stocl.
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profit.-:
£529,988
750,000
1,000,000
500,000
2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transarta all other usual
at Interest for
fixed periods, add
Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST. FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer at "Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay hours at Papeete, “The Pearl, of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara find R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. .OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
gfd
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
•Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
g
£3,705,320
£2,725.000
£3.705,320
£10.135.640
Directors:
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President,
ltobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnic, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer Esq.
Hea l°, ffice - Geor S e st - Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St, EC
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London '
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cahie remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Kills - nesro-
tiaton and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
: -T. TCTTSSTCLL FLENCH. General Manager. ‘
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
fdg
JBaitHtaralta
SYDNEY. a
Open
for all
Genera.! Banking; Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cabl ? remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
nxed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
At all
2600
Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Sayings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELI., Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISO.V MILLER, Governor
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
UMP
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
Agents:
Bennett 8 Barkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
. PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at' Fremantle-
to all North-Western Ports.
OIMBOOLA, Friday,
Jan. 12 and Feb. 9.
BRISBANE 'i '
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE f ]
And Ports North to Cairns. J J
MORIALTA, Jan. 6.
RUPARA, Jan. 13.
PARINGA, Jan. 20.'
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call. with other Inter-State Companies
on all.services subject to conditions, which can lie
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUJXI, & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passengei 1 Steamships
" Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,"
"Riverina,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
“ Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted witli Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS
HOB AUT AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN POUTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; Ceorgre Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
america—cana d a
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
S A M OA-H ONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACILARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
“|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
1 lie Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
'i'W ELD, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
Rl\ El’S : also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR'and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cumomauon 'Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WA.LES and yLEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to mcluue first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
Uience to I need Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Companvs ud-*o-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
'’"'V'" " -iloudciass rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 201 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S, “ INDARRA ” ... 10,0C0 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
mterchangeabie with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers. °
BORNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World Wir rhai-m
WORN AS,A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
, Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20 /- each
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
If any illustration appearing iu The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


“Upstairs, downstairs —
in every nook and cranny!;
A boon to every one of us,
a blessing most to Mammy!”
The New and
The Old
STUDY the contrasts
shown by these pictures.
Compare the old way with
the new. Which is your way?
The old way spells back-breaking
labour, loss of time and disappoint-
ing results. The new way —the
O-Cedar way —is the easy way, the
quick way, the thorough, satisfactory way.
OdteMr
[Registered in principal countries]
dusts, cleans and polishes all at one time.
It collects and holds every atom of dust
—gives hardwood floors a hard, dry,
durable lustre and brings out the beauty
of the grain of the wood. Use it every-
where; the heavy padding prevents the
marring or scratching of furniture.
When soiled, it is easily cleaned by
washing and then renewed with
O-Cedar Polish.
Just Try It —At Our Risk
Simply deposit *' with your dealer, and
take the O-Cedar Polish-Mop on trial.
Put it to every cleaning, dusting and
polishing test in your own home. We take all
risk, because we guarantee to satisfy you.
Sent prepaid by our local distributor,
upon receipt of price, if you have
any difficulty in otherwise obtaining.
Catalogues and Dealer Samples and
Prices can also be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
Also at BRISBANE.
Manufactured
Channel! Chemical Co., Factory: Chicago, U. S. A.
Offices: London Toronto Buenos Aires
Cable Address/ ‘Ocedar’
' 37
The Perfect Complexion
depends on the quality of the toilet powder used. Inferior
and impure powders are positively harmful.
: m
Perfumed Talcum Powders
its
are recognized everywhere as the purest. Nothing so quickly
destroys a woman’s fresh and delicate complexion as the con-
stant daily use of toilet powders containing injurious chemicals.
Mennen’s Scented Talcum Powders
Pure—refined-—free from foreign matter—deliciously perfumed—are considered by an
increasing number of the fair sex as the safest and daintiest toilet powders. They can
be had in a Variety of Tints and Perfumes.
Insist on the Genuine Mennen’s
Rotated Talcum Powder. At
all Leading Chemists and Stores.
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
Sen Yang—With a seductive yet illusive odor of the Orient.
Flesh Tint—Exquisitely perfumed with the odor of Roses, and
delicately tinted pink.
Violet— With the dainty scent of the delicate Violette de
Parme.” ,
Cream Tint—A Rachel’ ’ powder, cream-colored and scented
with orange blossoms.
fd
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AHABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
safeguard You* heaittH
Qt J.Collis Browne’S
CWorodyne
Tlie Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR;
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
anti in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, IJ3, S/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
gdf
BUY
YOUR
NEW SHOES
at the ABBEY Shoe Stores, where
you are assured the latest and most
correct style, the best workman-
ship and perfect lit.
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a Glace Kid Bal., with
Patent Leather Toecaps.
Price 27/6.
[n full sizes, C. and D. Fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW
CATALOG.
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney,
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W,
Telegrams—
Australia,
Telephone 7260,
4 lines.
P.O. Box 1610.
Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached, llot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests, The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day. *
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement. .
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently . cured thousands of ,case 3
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
. „ , , f . i
Made and Sold by. A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr. .
PRICK 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. -.Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chepiists
and Storekeepers .throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes, your fancy, write to the
Manager’, who will quote you price for it.


The Bank of North Queensland
Limited.
IyTOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that an
JJM Extraordinary General Meeting of The
Bank of North Queensland Limited will be
held at the registered office of the Bank, 308
Queen Street, Brisbane, on Tuesday, the 9th
day of January, 1917, at 12 o’clock noon,
when the subjoined resolutions will be pro-
posed.
Should the said resolutions be passed by
the required majority, they will be submitted
for confirmation as special resolutions to a
Second Extraordinary Meeting to be subse-
quently convened.
(i.) That it is expedient to effect an amalgamation
of this Company with The Royal Bank of Queensland
Limited.
(ii.) That with a view to the amalgamation of
this Company with The Royal Bana ‘of Queensland
Limited, this Company be wound up voluntarily.
(iii.) That John Mackenzie Lees of Brisbane be
md he is hereby appointed liquidator for the purpose
of such winding up.
(iv.) For the purposes of facilitating the carrying
out of such amalgamation the Directors of this 'Com-
pany, or a majority of them, may, and they are
hereby authorised, if necessary, to consent to the
registration of a new company to be named “The
Bank of Queensland Limited” with a Memorandum
and Articles of Association which have already been
prepared with the privity and approval of the Direc-
tors of this Company.
(v.) That the draft agreement expressed to be
made between The Royal Bank of Queensland Limited
and the liquidators thereof of the first part, this
Company and the liquidator thereof of the second
part, and The Bank of Queensland Limited of the
third part, submitted to this meeting, be and the
same is hereby approved, and that the liquidator of
this Company as aforesaid be, and he is hereby
authorised, pursuant to Action 151 of “The Com-
panies Act 1863,” to enter into an agreement on
behalf of this Company in terms of the said draft,
which contains, inter alia, a provision for paying
under the circumstances mentioned therein, the sums
and allowances for life specified therein, to the pre-
sent General Manager of The Royal Bank of Queens-
land Limited, and to the present General Manager of
The Bank of North Queensland Limited, with such, if
any, modifications as the said liquidators may think
expedient, and to carry the same into effect.
Dated this twenty-eighth day of December
1916.
J. MACKENZIE LEES,
General Manager.
itpti
: r.< m •
'■ ! ■■ c. .
■
m
m
77/E FARMERS FRIEND.
IMPERIAL FARM TRACTORS
Made in Australia to Suit Australian Conditions.
Solves the Labor Problem. * Saves Horseflesh.
Repair Parts Rarely Needed, but Always Available.
Write for Full Particulars.
Queensland Agents :
QUEENSLAND MACHINERY CO. LTD., Albert Street, Brisbane.
IN
BANANA LAND
Premier Ryan has been congratulated by
the Brisbane Industrial Council because he
stood out at the Premiers’ Conference against
any tampering with the jury system in deal-
ing with the I.W.W. The same council a
few hours before demanded the release of the
I.W.W.’s who were convicted by a Sydney
jury. Now, which way will you have it?
“Cynicus”: Talking of Jack Hamilton
winning votes by stoush brings to mind
Arnold Wienholt, who represented Fassifern
a few years ago. The wealthy Wienholt was
notorious for his ability to use his dooks and
his love for old clothes. Charlie Jenkinson
on one occasion was fighting him for a seat,
and had secured the only hall in Boonah for
the night before the election. Wienholt
promptly circulated the glad tidings that on
that night he would box all and sundry
behind one of the local pubs. Jenkinson
had no meeting and was beaten at the polls.
“Dead Finish”: The Ross River meat-
works have an electric dog for persuading the
hornies up the race. Whenever a beast shows
an inclination to hang back he is given a
touch on the rump with the dog. He imme-
diately remembers he is needed further
ahead, and never comes back to see what it
was that hurt his feelings.
*‘Mr. Ryan intimated that a sum of
£378,000 was being provided in London on
December 23 by the Commonwealth for the
State' to pay interest.” Unless that
£378,000 is at once repaid from revenue it
will amount to this —that Queensland will
have borrowed money to pay its interest bill.
And that will mean, not only that the Kid
will presently have to pay for partly-worn-
out works, but also for some of the old man’s
railway travelling, etc. For when interest
is made up out of borrowings, the old man
really pays lid. when he ought to be paying
a shilling for a ticket, the other penny being
charged up to the next generation. One
way and another the next generation seems
in for a busy time.
Queensland, that home of tropical degen-
eracy, still makes a healthy showing in the
population business. Statistician MacLeod
reports that the birth-rate for 1915 was 29.35
per 1000, the highest of any Australian State,
while her illegitimacy rate was the lowest in
comparison with the legitimacy figures. Bris-
bane’s population is now about 161,000, with
some 3600 more women than men. MacLeod
suggests, in view of the probable falling-off
in marriages in the near future, that Banana-
THE CHRISTIAN FORBEARANCE OF
MRS. CATCHLOVE.
DEPRESSED PEMALE: Yes, Mrs. Jorkins, mum, wot with the treatment I've ’ad to put
up with from im, I wonder I ’aren’t been tempted to run orf with someone else
afore now!”
landers consider the introduction of the
French dowry system. But Billjim will have
to alter a lot before he goes ferreting out the
dowries of the girls on Dingo Creek with a
cold eye on matrimony.
Private Herbert Ogden, away over in
France, appealed, through the Courier, to
some kind Queenslanders to cheer his loneli-
ness by writing. At latest the suppliant had
received a thousand letters, six bags of papers
and magazines and a big number of parcels.
Out of three mailbags for the unit two were
Ogden’s on a recent occasion.
“Eta”: Bill Hamilton will probably get
the job of President of the Council in suc-
cession to Arthur Morgan, deceased. Bill
is rep. of the Government in the House, and
in his spare moments looks after the Mines
Department. To hear him talk of “those
old blokes” in the Council, one would think
he was 10 or 15 instead of just about 60.
He has been a little of everything in his
time, and 30 years ago was ringer of more
than one shed in the West. He has also
done a bit of honorable gaol, having been
mixed up in the ’9l trouble.
Brothers from the Rhine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A recent proclamation issued by the German
authorities in Brussels advised the cultivation of
kindly relations between the Belgians and the occu-
pying Teutons.”
Don’d get black und snarly mit der vays of Karl
und Fritz;
Kind dey are im Herzen, if a leedle dull of vits;
Yot is dis dey’re telling of dose outrage oop und
down,
Hurting Fraus und Kinder in der grazy leedle town?
Schwein?
Nein!
Not a single sign!
Ve are yoost your Briider who are goming from der
Rhein.
You shall have a Konig from der Kaiser in Berlin,
You shall live on sauerkraut if you only drop your
din;
Learn to know der Deutscher you vill learn to love
him, too —
Love him for his Kultur und der lager he can brew.
Schwein ?
Nein!
Dot is how ve dine!
Gome und hug your Briider who are goming from
der Rhein.
Yot der Teufel matters it if Kirchen get ablaze?
Dot is yoost der Kriegsbrauch mit its old und funny
vays;
Cloth Hall up at Yyrcs is a ruin, as you say —•
Yhy der Teufel did der place get in der bloomin’
vay ?
Schwein?
Nein !
Gome und get in line,
Learn to love your Briider who are gomii)g from der
Rhein.
Ofer dere in Poland dings are vorkin’ like a scharm,
Poles are toiling for us hard on efery busy farm ;
Yhen ein Deutcher passes you should see dem all
salute,
Efery von respect der Volk dot know der vay to
’ shoot.
Schwein ?
Nein !
Fill der cup mit wein,
Toast your loving Briider who are goming from der
Rhein.
Drei years ist es nearly now since ve begin der var ;
Ve haf taught der vorld a lot it never knew before ;
Look at all der Frightfulness you see on efery hand —
Dot is how ve pave der vay for Deutschthum in der
land.
Schwein ?
Nein!
Soon you vill combine,
Gif your hands und Herzen to your Briider from
the Rhein.
England vill gome into line und drop der old
blockade;
Russland in der mortar by der Kaiser shall be
brayed ;
Belgians, aber, are a race der Yarmans love und
prize,
Stop your Flemish growling und be freundlich now
und vise.
Schwein ?
Nein!
Beople superfine
Full of tender feeling are your Briider from der
Rhein! ,
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 30, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
His Ex. and Lady Goold-Adams enter-
tained about 200 returned soldiers at the
Exhibition grounds this afternoon. The
Bills and the Jims went in for tugs-of-war
and other mild pastimes, and his Ex. handed
around prizes out of his own pocket.
AVhen the New Year settles into its stride
their Exes, are off to the bushlands. They
are going to camp under canvas somewhere
in the Warwick district, and while the billy
boils and the missus peels the spuds the
Governor will swap tobacco with the vagrant
sundowner.
Major Pendlebury, our popular D.A.A.G.,
has been moved on to Adelaide, where he
will occupy a similar position. He and his
wife will be missed in Bananaland. Mrs.
Pendlebury has given a helning hand or two
to pretty well all movements for the benefit
of soldiers.
Several of our notorious tabbies are trem-
bling in their slippers. An interesting item
of news concerning Mrs. X. Y. Blank was
prattled over the teacups as referring to
Mrs. Y. X. Blank, a recent bride. Charac-
ters were smudged and all was very satisfac-
tory until Mr. X. Y. Blank spoke harshly of
libel actions, and Mrs. Y. X. Blank did
ditto. Then it was learnt that there were
two Blank families, strangers to each other.
The rush to apologise and save further
trouble is seething.
Mr. and Mrs. Julian Mackay will arrive,
in Brisbane early in the New Year. She
used to be Miss Mollie Ferrier, one of Bris-
bane’s prettiest daughters, and for a time has
been nursing in a military hospital in Eng-
land.
Young Cupid continues to mark up his
own private casualty lists. Miss C. Young,
daughter of the George Youngs, of Clayfield,
has promised to wait for Driver C. E.
Longwill, of the Artillery, and son of the
Longwills of Albion, until the war is over.
Then —but steady!
Another promise binds Jim Scrymgeour,
of Callandoon station, who also is in khaki,
and pretty Marjorie Brown, of Toowoomba.
The Imperial Service Club, as usual,
proved a “home from home” on Christmas
Day for the soldiers in camp. To-morrow
another party is to be held at the Club, which
has been the most popular institution for
soldiers in town since the war began.
Miss A. Thorpe, 8.A., is the new town
clerk of Windsor. The B.A. was won at
Melbourne University. Nine years ago she
was made assistant town clerk of Windsor,
and she has been in charge since the deatli
of Mr. Ilenzel eight months ago. She is the
first woman in Queensland to hold such a
position.
Dr. Paul Loubet, who was badly wounded
at Mons, has bought Dr. L. M. McKillop’s
practice at Blackall. Dr. McKillop—an old
Burwood (Sydney) boy—is now in charge
of the military hospital at Enoggera with
the rank of Major. Blackall residents will
miss him and his wife, but the A.I.F. needs
him. Billzac has first claim these days.
Youi%. affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“D.F.”: Biljemima is just as resourceful
as her brother. One damsel in a Northern
town was sorely troubled by her otherwise
impeccable parents going on a periodical jag.
In the midst of the convivialities the female
parent would get into the streets in a cos-
tume as scanty as Eve’s on her honeymoon..
When entreaties were of no avail the
daughter would heat a flatiron and apply it
to the soles of ma’s feet. Ma was no fire-
walker, and the blisters stopped her perambu-
lations. P.S. —The idea is not patented.
Anyone can try it.
W. M. Lee-Bryce, Thursday Island’s Resi-
dent and P.M. and Torres Strait Protector
of Aborigines, passed out the other day.
leaving a fine record for good and wise
administration of the Aboriginal Act in the
Strait. For the five years of his regime, at
Thursday Island the vital statistics of the
discolored population of the islands show up
remarkably well. Births and deaths per
1000 for 1915 were 46.47 and 13.73
respectively, as against 38.46 and 24.10 for
1912. ■ And this despite antagonism shown
by departmental officials and others. His
whole big heart was in the endeavor to save
the Strait Islanders from the fate of the
mainlanders, and his success will be a stimu-
lus to those who follow.
Munro Hull, who has failed to get the
Queensland Dept, of Stock to give his tick
specific a thorough trial, is again raising his
voice and challenging officialdom. Hull
declares that his cattle are immune, while his
neighbors suffer regular losses from the
scourge. Surely that claim offers sufficient
inducement for the Dept, to clamber out of
its red-tape for a few minutes and investigate
the evidence.


A
f i ne
drink
' ' ' . 7 •ii.J •
for all
occasions.
Get the habit
of asking for it
during 1917. —
'TOO
rttV
\M>
Tcvi
s ,
c^ sia
Whenever you hear
drinks mentioned —
order Tooth’s
Light Crystal
—the Ale
that sat-
isfies
!


A “BEST SELLER”
Popular Macnaught model —a very
serviceable boot, notable for its dis-
tinctive lines and fine finish. Sizes 3
to 8 only 23 / 6
In button style, same price.
JPe Pay Postage.
Write for nciu Summer Catalogues.
P
(piLJiuiugai
For Distinctive Foottcear.
135 Ring Street, SYDNEY.
o
I LI Ln
0 e
Don't forget to me
|CARBQLtcI|
to - night—and again
in the morning .
You will find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the teeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.-
Mads by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester, England.
For Lighting
and Ignition
of Motor Gars
it has been proved that there is no
system to equals that obtained through
the use of
Edison
Storage
Batteries.
They contain neither acid nor lead—
but are the only nickel-iron-alkaline
kind made, and are absolutely reliable.
Require no expert attention.
Full details mailed post free on
request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
The Answers * Shavm^Question
g
of
attachment for
GUJeueßJades
THE
EVERMORE
STROPPER
fdg
Attachment Ar
DurhamDupJex
i Blades
I
Dotted
arrows show
DIAGONAL
se of
COMFORT
QUALITY
VALUE
PLEASURE
ASK YOUR
DEALER to
DEMONSTRATE
IT
©
For Sale through
out Australasia
IF UNPROCURABLE WRITE TO
BOX 1003 G.P.O. SYDNEY BOX H GPO. AUCKLAND N.Z
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Ijift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Rifting Ropes and other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
ni Montserrat.
Shipped in British vessels. H
Montserrat
Lrime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
(vans Sons Loscher & Webb, Ltd. — Liverpool & London.
TO® •
‘His Masters Voice
REGARDS
THOSE who own “Gramophones”—or in fact ANY talking
machine —will get better results if they use “His Master’s
Voice” Records.
They record and produce better than any others, and WEAR
LONGER. They bring to you the triumphs of all the eminent
artistes. It is significant that all the great celebrities of song and
music record exclusively with “His Master’s Voice.” Ask your
nearest dealer for complete lists —or send to us for them.
“GRAMOPHONE ’
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY
fd
\e
If any illustration appearing in
Bulletin takes your fancy, write t.
Manager, who will quote you price for
The
j the
't.
“Vigilans”: Re German mission stations
in Australia. There are several scattered
about the continent. One of the Finke in
Central Australia spread a good deal of
German sentiment thereabouts. When I
was in West Kimberley a few years ago
there was an aboriginal mission station at
Beagle Bay subsidised by the Government.
German was the only “white” language
spoken there, though many of the natives jab-
bered a patois —G e r man -c;urn-Mahi y - c m i n -
Japanese-ci/m-English. Beagle Bay is one
of the most extraordinary places in Aus-
tralia. It has the strangest mixture of all
the northern coastal districts. At the mis-
sion station the children represent a con-
glomeration which even Thursday Island
cannot equal. Of course the pearlers and
trepangers are responsible. The children
are yarded up at the mission station, eight
miles from the sea. It is a beautiful patch
in the wilderness —a real oasis in a desert.
Well watered by springs, it grows fruits,
vegetables, maize and other cereals, includ-
ing rice. I have often wondered since how
these German Trappists spied out this fei-
tile spot. I-stayed there as their guest for
a month and marvelled at their industry.
“Mujik” wants rivers of ink to flow: —
All the world is scoffing at Wilson’s Notes, but as
the world always scoffs in the wrong place it would
be a fair thing to point out that Note-writing offers
the only method of securing relief from the burden
of armaments. Just think for a moment what the
world has lost by the current disturbance being-
carried on with bayonets instead of stationery—of
the excitement and opportunity for fine healthy criti-
cism lost through the sword being thought mightier
than the pen.
It is quite absurd for public meetings to throw
tomatoes at me when I point this out and try to
argue that wars could be still carried on and con-
ducted in a much more cleanly way if a resolution
was passed to give the pen a chance. Wilhelm could
still have gone mad —could have ravaged Belgium
and Northern France and torpedoed the Lusitania and
dropped Zeppelins on England to be examined by
the local constable. Also Australians could have
gone to Egypt and Gallipoli and the Somme and the
Russian to various other places. It would all have
been as easy as falling into sheep-dip. How much
better it would have been if William had suddenly writ-
ten that he was on the verge of Belgium and 6n succeed-
ing days had dashed off notes to remark that his army
was at Aerschot and Louvain and Brussels. At once
he would have received cold official documents stating
that the Belgians were retreating undismayed; that
J. Bull was coming on and had an army going to
Mons, and the Russian scouts were in the Carpathians
and in Poland. William would thereupon have
telegraphed -that the British were moving strategically
to the rear from Mons and Von Ivluck was encircling
Paris and preparing to attack Antwerp. At
this stage, after conferring with Kitchener and the
Daily Mail, Joffre would have written to Berlin
explaining the Marne, and Germany would say:
“Well, I defeat the Russians at Thannenburg. What
are you going to do about that?”
And so on and so forth, right down to the combing
of Percy out of a Government job in England, and
Australia struggling with “Yes-No,” and the Federal
Parliament hiding, and Hughes tearing up upas trees.
And as the list of casualities mounted up at Berlin
the German would have seen the hopelessness of his
position and tried to settle the matter; but Aus-
tralia would firmly say: “Go on to the bitter end,
I’ve 17 recruits,” arid the papers would proclaim vic-
tories arid high prices of food and tell of Von
Falkenhayn getting the sack and the Crown Prince
beans and —why, the mental picture of horror and
the war notes in the newspapers would’ have in seven
years brought the conflict to a conclusion, with three
cheers for the winners and three more for the losers
and frantic applause for the Note as a weapon of
defence against aggression! But now how many
cheers are there goirg to be on an earth soaked by
tears and blood, choked w-ith misery and woe? Every
time give me the Note.
The Kaiser in his offer of peace professed
■ himself willing to sign many documents,
among others an agreement limiting arma-
ments :
lie tore the documents to bits,
Indulging his destructive capers;
And now, grow'n weary of the “scraps,”
He’s willing to restore the papers.
Killed in action at the Somme, S. F.
Hutton, aged 32. Hutton was an Anglican
priest, son of an English rector, who, failing
to get a chaplaincy, enlisted as private in
the Royal Fusiliers with his bishop’s sanc-
tion. In the intervals of doing his bit in
the trenches he held unofficial services for
his mates, as the thousands of French priests
among the “poilus” are doing. He was the
grandson of old-time Sydney merchant
Henry Mort. An uncle, 11. Wallace Mort,
is a retired Anglican canon in Sydney.
Robert Semple, who has just been
handed a year’s gaol in Maoriland, was
over in Australia a few weeks ago ex-
horting the coal-miners to keep on strik-
ing. Then he ivent back to tell the com-
munity what a fine thing it was for Labor
to make a kind of hell on earth. Semple
is a queer mixture,, never thoroughly happy
unless all hands have knocked off work and
he is wildly urging them to cast their chains
away for evermore. He is about as construc-
tive as an enraged elephant, and in Maori-
land is regarded by Fat as the emissary
of the Devil. After being before the Beaks
several times he was nabbed for “sedition”
—which has been stretched till it is now
a very wide net in Maoriland.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Melbourne missionary, who has been carrying
the glad tidings of great joy to numerous small
islands in the vicinity of the New Hebrides, says that
on two or three of these islands the common practice
is to eat. the criminal. “A practice I do not attempt
to excuse,” he adds.
The system's excellent, nor can
We see the need to frame excuses.
’Twcre hard to find a better plan
Of punishing the wicked man,
And putting him to better uses.
The method, there is no denying,
Than ours is far more satisfying.
For crimes against the people, or
For treasonable matter,
The crim’nal to the common store
Is passed, and in a week or more
Gomes up for judgment—on a platter !
There people on the felon batten.
Here felons on the people fatten.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Kodak pictures keep fresh
the memory of every happy time
Take a Kodak wherever you go,
and then on your bookshelf will
stand a row of albums that will
march you back into the past at a
moment’s notice ; that will en-
able you to recall the best times ol
your life, your holidays, your trips by the sea,
into the country, up the rivers, your voyages
abroad, your home life, the growth of 3-our
children, and thousands of other subjects
personal to yourself.
Remember, too, your soldier relative or friend
would be delighted with Kodak pictures of
home life.
There are AUTOGRAPHIC KODAKS from 30/- to
£l5/2/-, and each one is remarkably simple to use.
THE VEST POCKET AUTOGRAPHIC KODAK—
the “Soldier’s"' Kodak—for pictures 2| x If inches.
Price 30/~
THE .NO. 1 AUTOGRAPHIC KODAK JUNIOR,
takes pictures 2\ x3f inches. Price 45/-
THE NO. 3A FOLDING AUTOGRAPHIC KODAK,
for postcard pictures—s| x 3f inches.
Price £5/10/-
Ask for very interesting booklet: “Picture Making
with a Kodak.”
s
H
HI
m
>
\ :•
v > :
'As"'
mm,
. ;.y-' / "X . •'
■.
-'* W ■ “V .
WMk t^
. -
ill ■ fei -.’•iiiipii'
MBs
iBMi
W*Z": ■^% 1 . . ■
-*•
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The 810ck,”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE-
•2SO-252 Queen Street, Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Buthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Corner Cambion Quay and Willis' Street, Wellington, N.Z. 3 Borne Street,
Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
gfd
ThemarA of superior
motor car&ervz ce
1
g
The mark of suparfon
motor car .serose#
A Car the Whole World hikes.
THE whole world thinks well of the Hupniobile. In
almost every country in the World, in large cities,
small towns or in the country this car is being more
widely bought than ever before.
It could not hold preference if it were just an ordinarily
good ear.
But it is more than that. It is the “ best car of its class in
the world,” with all the excellences that leadership implies.
IN every way it is worthy of the good opinion of the
world.
The man who confirms his judgment of superior motor-car
value by buying a Hupmobile gets better performance, better
quality, better engineering design, more comfort, better
upholstery and equipment, better finish than he ever
dreamed was possible at the price.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS. '
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater, sedan, and 5-seater and 2-seater with detachable winter tops. Motor: Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (32in. x sJin.).
Transmission- Three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch. Rear Axle floating- type, spiral bevel gear. Cam shaft and crank shaft bearings bronze shell, babbitt
lined. Long wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 131 in. on 7-seater). Tyres 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 4£in. on 7-seater. Electric
starting and lighting; ventilating, rain vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting side_ curtains; door curtain carriers; deep upholstery; speedometer; robe rail, foot rail and
carpet in. tonneau; non-skid tyres on rear; five demountable rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full set of tools. Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki hood and
seat covers at small additional cost over list price of car.
Hupp Motor Car Corporation,
Detroit, XJ.S.A.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong
PHOENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z. 4


X
A Symbol of Endurance
(REGD. TRADE MARK OF BRITISH AVON TYRES).
THE “bigness” of British Avon Tyres
is not measurable with inch-tape
or metric rule. You need a speedometer,
recording miles in thousands.
Q Service, not size, is the acid-test for
tyres. When you buy tyres, buy miles in
the generous Avon measure, which
means that each mile will cost you less
—the only true test of tyre value.
« All standard inch and
millimetre car sizes made
in two types Square
Tread (fluted) and “Sun-
stone Special * (extra
heavy rubber anti-skid).
(]} Specify also Avon Motor-
cycle and Bicycle Tyres. Car-
riage or Rickshaw Tyring, Solid
Band Tyres, railway and elec-
trical engineering rubbers, coach-
builders sundries, golf balls,
heel-sads, etc., etc.
mmm
»»»
Square T- ead
(fluted).
" Sunstor?«
Special,”
AGENTS:
N. J. HOWES & CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney
H,' C. PANNIFEX, 22 Market Street, Melbourne
:>J: *5
Resolved!
1. That New Year happiness consists largely
in the possession of a reliable Razor.
2. That the best Razor known to Cutlery
science is
THE “PLUM”—
a Razor that makes you smile like the man
in the picture 364 days out of the year.
Try it !
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 307-
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &. AITKEN,
654 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
vrai l
/
/
Warning Signal
Hand-operated
£l/10/-
Makes Them All
Stop! Look! Listen!
Too many cars are equipped with a weak*
little buzzer that can only be heard a
few yards away.
What good is that? Can it afford real pro-
tection ?
Many a serious accident has been due to
the faintness of a poor, inefficient, weak
signal.
Safety first! Use a Stewart Warning
Signal for your own protection.
Its note is clear, loud and penetrating —it
makes everyone stop, look and listen.
Just touch it with elbow, arm or hand and
it instantly commands immediate atten-
tion.
Built of the best materials by the world’s
largest motor accessory manufacturers,
Stewart Warner Speedometer Corpora-
tion.
Tens of thousands are in use. Our big pro-
duction makes possible the very low
price.
The Stewart Warning Signal can be put on
any car—yours, or your friend’s.
Order one now, and hereafter you will drive
wdth a greater degree of safety.
For sale by leading accessory dealers, motor-
car dealers and garages, or write to:
BENNETT & WOOD,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Exclusive Distributors.
sSlewtvit'
Motor-Driven Warning Signal.
£2/12/6
“ No car Is better than Its accessories.’
fdg
If any illustration appearing in 'a'iie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


INFLAMEDJVIASS
Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
“My little.girl suffered with dry itch-
ing rash over her body. The rash first
broke out in little pim-,
pies with watery tops.'
The child scratched
them until they turned
into one red, raw,
inflamed mass.
‘ ‘Seeing how a mother
healed her child with
Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment I sent for them. In six weeks’
time the skin was clear and healthy.”
(Signed) Mrs. Angus McDonald, Spring
St., Young, N. S. W., October 26, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,
Sold throughout the world.
fd
Teach Cadets
to shoot
gfd
The Ross Cadet ” Rifle is a
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
ROSS “CADET,” .22 CALIBRE
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
It is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges—•
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It is an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
Full particulars on application.
715
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable
H 4
Rn
m
K
nS ;
m
a
n
g
ELEY ‘Comet’
A deep-shell, dark green
cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 grain) Smokeless Powder
and li« oz. shot.
s. & w.
Revolver
dg
ELEY
25
Automatic
fd
ELEY 310
Cadet Smokeless
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L- LONDON
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying Office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors .—Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon J-.T. Walker, Deputy Chairmani; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Anox, Esq., ICC.,
Samuel Hordern, Esq,
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.,' General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable, form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
The Tootal Guaranteed line British - made Cotton Fabrics
TOOTALS GUARANTEE IT
Reg’<l.
offers a pleasing variety of pat-
terns and indelible colors, and
retains its charm and softness
through many washings. A
great favourite “at home ”
because so thoroughly service-
able. For children’s frocks and
overalls, as for really smart
and serviceable wash frocks,
it is soon found indispensable.
Name on every yard of selvedge
12ikL per yard, White
13id. Colored & Printed
To be had from all good class Stores
m
TOOTAL
PIQU£)
Various designs and widths of cord
43 to 44 ins. wide. 2/11 per yard
Exceptionally soft, yet durable
strengthened between cords to pre-
vent splitting. Cuts out economically.
OTHER GUARANTEED TOOTAL LINES
TARANTULLE for daintyliome-sewn lingerie,
40 inches wide, 3 weights. Free from Dressing
TOOTAL SHIRTS FOR MEN. Ready to
wear, replaced free if they lose color.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for Ladies 1 and
Children’s Wear —32 inches wide.
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
LADIES. Self-white and indelible borders.
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
MEN. Self-white and indelible borders.
TOOTAL CLOTH, The guaranteed velvet
fabric —more supple than silk velvet.
Ltd., MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
Australian Agents
STOGDALE & SONS PTY. Ltd., Finks Buildings,
MELBOURNE, and York Street. SYDNEY
A 4
g
dfgfgd
fgd
gf
ft. /■?.
U
In the moment of urgency
When the time comes for quick decisive
action—the hasty summons to the doctor—
the swift imperative journey, then the
motor spirit plays its greatest part. The
throbbing engine tells of pent up power
loosed to drive the car at its very utmost.
Plume Benzine
Easy starting—Sweet running—More miles
The power and speed produced by
“Plume” is the result of careful distillation.
Rapid vaporisation and maximum of heat
units combine to form a spirit, quick in
action, and of great energy even on the
coldest night. “Plume” is famous for easy
starting, besides giving more mileage and
ensuring a clean cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
Have you seen the Manufacturer’s Re-
commendation Chart, telling you the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloil with which to
lubricate your car? If not, write us and it
will be mailed free. “A grade for each
type of Motor.”
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
V^/LO^V
Pb 4
ƒ
The Inky Way.
: pou'pland Harding, of the Wel-
lington (M.L.) Post, dead. His was a
great spirit in a too-small body. In the
Maori wars he carried a musket for that
exacting and thankless father of ours. Then,
a printer for a living; but he made printing
an art where art was at the tail of ■ the
procession. I knew him best when I was
a cub on the Post, where he was reader and
I was his copy-holder. I remember him as
I remember O. Henry’s woman who wished
that she was as other women, having a
husband who would wallop her occasionally.
Harding used to listen to my asinine
opinions not only with tolerance but as
if he were interested. And I the while
wished that he would give me a solid
hiding. Yet, if Goupland Harding' had
given me a solid hiding once a day, I
would not have so benefited as I have from
the recollection of his gentle nature.
Arthur Morgan, Lieut.-Gov. of Queens-
land, who passed over lately, was already
proprietor of the Warwick (Q.) Argus
when “Billy” Conley, the present general
manager of the S. M. Herald, was a boy
“on the machine” in the office. The Argus
job was no sinecure, either then or at any
other time, and the youthful devils who
found their way there set up type, turned
the hand press, published, delivered, and
then got a day off to do reporting and collect
the accounts —all for about 10s. a week.
* * * ■ *
“Pen”: Mr. Burgoyne (B. 7/12/T6) and
I agree on the main facts concerning the
Perth Press Club (so called). I said that
the original A.J.A. Club members left out
of the constitution a clause that would have
kept the control in their own hands, and
were consequently flooded out. Mr. Burgoyne
says that every member of the committee is
“connected with newspaper work,” but only
“four are members of the A.J.A.” Precisely
my argument. Working pressmen in Perth
are, or were until recently, all members of
the A.J.A. A committee of which less than
a third are working pressmen cannot be
said to be controlled by pressmen. Everyone
knows, too, that the term “connected with
newspaper work” may include anyone, from
the boy who throws the rag over the fence
in the morning to “Pro Bono Publico.” It
is also a fact that the A.J.A. may hardly be
mentioned inside the Club, and Association
meetings cannot be held there.
* * * *
With the help of the priceless comp.
Sydney Stock and Station Journal has
discovered the cause of rust in wheat: —
The reports generally from Riverina were to the
effect that rust was spreading from the flag to the
stems, but the parts of the country, and were all
traced to infected shaving-brushes, the bristles of
which were largely composed of mixed hair of
Chinese origin, chiefly goat, horse, pig and human
hair.
“A.P.8.” : In “Memories of Edward Clodd,”
lately published by Chapman and Hall (Lon-
don), there is a picture facing page 124
of a South Sea Islander in what he con-
siders clerical dress, and underneath is the
following :
This authentic photograph, recently taken by a
Sydney amateur on behalf of the Sydney Bulletin,
a journal deeply interested in missionary. enterprise
in the South Seas, wi11....
QJhRt comes of printing “Hop’s”' well-remem-
bered pictures in which a cooking-pot always
figured in the foreground!
* * * *
“J.F.I-I.” (London) : Lord Nortlicliffe’s
latest full-page boost is over the patriarch of
his big journalistic family—the Weekly Des-
patch, a Sunday paper that has just scored
its 6000th number. The first issue is dated
September 27, 1801, and the only copy of it
known to exist hangs in a glass frame on
the wall behind Northcliffe’s chair in Car-
melite House: the earliest copy preserved in
the British Museum is dated 1818. The
original price was eightpenee, afterwards it
was cut to sixpence, and when the absurd
newspaper-stamp duties were repealed it
came down (1870) to a penny, and lias been
there ever since. Northcliffe now reprints
the famous letter addressed by Charles
Dickens to the Weekly Despatch, in 1849,
describing the “ghoulish holiday” and the
horrible scenes of “brutal mirth and callous-
ness” he witnessed during an all-night vigil
waiting for an "execution in London. This
letter was largely instrumental in abolishing
public hangings. Thq old paper has a lot
of other interesting Inky Way history in its
files. For instance, G. R. Sims earned his
first guinea from the Despatch ; and it was
in a cradle in the office that the Referee
was first put to bed.
BELOW PAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was young and greener far
I’d always condescend
To scribble an attractive par.
To gratify a friend.
I wrote of Mrs. Weeler’s ball,
The finest function of them all : ,
Of Mr. Thompson’s escapade
I straight a two-inch item made.
And so it came about in time,
Did any fellow plan
To star his name in prose or rhyme
I was declared the man
Who would be glad to serve his turn.
And give the universe to learn
How once his wit convulsed a bar,
Or why he bought a motor-car.
For years the seekers buzzed around ;
I heard the postman’s wrongs,
Of go'oseberries that weighed a pound,
And Miss Letitia’s songs ;
And oft their doings to recite
The wretches kept me up at night.
But all would say on seeing me:
“A splendid writer, Billy T!”
But now I write no pars, for these,
I dodge the tales of Brown ;
The dates of Mrs. Smithy’s teas
I never more set-down.
I can no precious moments spare
From lofty rhyme and story rare,
And neighbors say as by I trot :
“Who reads, that fellow’s awful rot?”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


DEPENDABLE GUNS
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wingo
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
■ - :
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
British Made. Box of 5, 2/6 post free
824. Boswell’s High-grade D.8.8.Tj. Haimnerless Pigeon Gun, ‘
li-gauge, top lever, Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side
oolt, chambered for 2J cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately
engraved ; weight about 71b. soz Delivered
‘The Reliable,”
clips, Greener X
£17(10/-
WE STOCK EVERYTHING FOR EVERY SPORT. “Goods Right-Prices Right." |
f*'"* - Greener’s 12-gauge D.8.J8.L. Hainnierless Gun, treble wedge, fast action,
. n * “Si ell *en’s’' special steel .barrels, shooting guaranteed, both full choke,
halt pistol grip, same as above, but no engraving; a splendid pigeon
gim Delivered
£l4/10/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
Send for our new
edition Sports
and Firearms
Catalogue. Post-
ed free to any
address.
ĝ
818. Cashmore’s 12-g
extension rib, left elioke,
nut stock; weight about
Same as above, but with
auge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-inch steel barrels,
cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal-
71b Delivered
32-inch barrels Delivered
£B/7/6
£B/12/6
m
Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks. Greener cross bolt, nit.ro proof; weight of 12-gauge about
711 b.; of 16-gauge, about Delivered
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge, 30in. barrels, 7 /Q extra.
&5151-
The restriction prohibiting the sale of Shotguns and Shotgun Cartridges having
been removed by the Military Authorities, we are now in a position to fulfil any
orders for these goods.
fg
dfg
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
fg
Watermans (||ap fountain Pen
The March of Progress.
Waterman’s Ideal has always been the recognised leader in pendom.
The most costly of ingenious appliances in manufacture have
been utilised to make it supreme and keep it so. To-day there
are millions of Waterman’s Ideals in use and millions of satis-
fied users. There is absolutely no other pen to equal it.
For those who travel or lead an outdoor life, the “ Safety” type
is recommended. It can be carried upside down or in any position.
Three types Regular,
Safety, and Lever Pocket
Self-Filling.
0/Stationers cr Jewellers
everywhere.
L. G. Sloan,
Cheapen Comer
London, England.
Australia:
Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clirence Street,
Sydney.
/V
is
w
m
I
tMs
m
m
n/7
SJ
%//¥
K
\ LAUNCHING THE H.M A S BRISBANE AT'SYMIEY-
SEPT 30™ 1915 -SISTER SHIP TO H.M.A.S. SYDNEY
dfg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Si?
mm
jj
m
u
JG
J
SYDNEY
N. S OWO
. Location : Conveniently situated in
Castlereagh Street- a few doors from
King Street—and nearly opposite
Theatre Royal, with separate entrance
in Elizabeth Street * !
J
Hi
m
LX
r
i
<1
m
4\
The Most Modern and
Palatial Hotel in Australia!
THE Hotel Carlton, completed at a cost exceeding £lOO,OOO,
and furnished sumptuously throughout by David Jones, Ltd.,
has, since its opening on March 30, 1916, been thronged
with crowds of delighted visitors !
While its exquisite appointments—its perfect cuisine and courteous
service more than commend themselves to travellers used to every
comfort—the Hotel Carlton can hardly be described as being
merely the leading hotel.
It is more than that —: !
Tt is from every point of view the most desirable place in Sydney
to stay.
Every detail in the perfect attention to visitors’ wishes has been
thoroughly studied, and reflects the careful thoughtfulness of the
management, who have had a wide experience in. catering for the
best class of patronage !
One of the attractive features of the Hotel Carlton is that every
bedroom is naturally ventilated, unusually spacious, has hot and
cold water installed, and is artistically furnished.
It is absolutely fireproof, having marble staircases, and concrete
floors throughout.
the general appointments include amongst others: Magnificent
Dining Hall (with separate accommodation for children), elegant
and comfortable lounges, reception, smoking, writing and reading
rooms, also private rooms for weddings, dinner-parties, afternoon-
teas, etc.
ALL LETTERS, WIRES, etc., PROMPTLY ANSWERED.
TERMS—I 4- PER DAY EACH PERSON.
CHAS. W. CUPIT,
Manager.
1
i
mm
M
SL
SYDNEY
N.S.W.


Miss Winnie Tate Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic
fgd
WINNIE TATE
(from a photo.)
Liniment.
Miss WINNIE TATE, one of the
prettiest as well as one of the
most graceful of the J. 0.
Williamson Ltd. dancers, has been
greatly admired in the recent
revivals at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney. This charming dancer is
enthusiastic in her praise of
Magnetic Liniment. She says:—
“I have been using your Dr.
Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment
now for over two years, and
I ain sure I could never per-
form my work without the
help of Magnetic Liniment. A
rub with Magnetic Liniment
after strenuous dancing makes
all the difference in the world,
for it takes away the tiredness
and strain, and leaves me
quite as fresh as ever.
“You cannot imagine what
a lot of uses I find for Mag-
netic Liniment. I have used
it for Toothache, Headache,
Neuralgia and for a rub-
down after swimming, and in
every instance it has proved
most effective. I can assure
you that Magnetic Liniment
will always have a place on
my Dressing Table or in my
Travelling Bag, and I never
lose an opportunity of recom-
mending it to my friends.
“Gratefully yours,
“(Sgd.) WINNIE TATE.”
BANISHLS ALL PAIN.
Pain in any form, be it Neuralgia, Rheumatism or Sore Muscles that pain ,if
you so much as move—all these pains and more are easily controlled by Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment. Not an internal remedy, but working through the pores of the
skin, Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment penetrates—goes into the seat of pain,
and banishment is the result. Apply the Liniment with the palm of the hand—rub
until the friction creates a warm glow, and the pain leaves you as if charmed away.
Life should not be spoiled by pain and suffering, when Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Lini-
ment is ready to relieve all aches and pains. The ever-ready family remedy, 1/6
and 3/-
S'
■ s
\r/- / \
T)0 YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
when you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jclloids, ’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron ‘Jelloids’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2A.
For Ancemia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6, Large size 3/-. .
f\
" W ■ W W W W-W
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
Australian Wholesale Agents:-
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
BOVRIL
Gives
Stamina and
Staying
Power.
Increases
the Defensive
Forces of
the Body.
T J
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The King’s Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WATCH the night-lamp flicker on
the velvet-shrouded wall,
Or listen to the water-drops that tinkle
as they fall
When all the world t is dreaming and the
stars are growing* small.
Mary, pray for me!
When he that draws his even breath so near
is deep asleep,
Oh, then I lie and stare and think—l am too
sad to weep—-
Till on the figured tapestry the creatures
seem to creep.
Mary, pray for me!
Or rise and yearn above his face, so beauti-
ful to me,
My anguished love, a steady star, made bright
with tears. But she!—
Oh, all my life is a grey shore and a wide
moaning sea.
Mary, pray for me!
I cannot sob to the cool floor when my wrung
heart is torn ;
No, I must sweep among the court in silk
like painted morn—
They whisper, and look after me with pity
worse than scorn.
Mary, pray for me !
And when the silver trumpets blare, so sweet,
at some state ball,
To have him bend above my hand —his queen
-—before them all
When my whole being, reaching out to him,
is one wild call!
Mary, pray for me !
I see her pass from man to man, her bosom
half laid bare,
The shim’ring star he always wore a glory
in her hair,
Or watch him tend her covertly as down
the stately stair
(Mary, pray for me!)
She rustles—from her arching foot to her
rouged face a jade,
Of God and man and devil and the scandal
unafraid !
How should she prize his dearest head upon
her bosom laid ?
Mary, pray for me!
If there had come a child like him ! I used
to dream of one.
It was a dream. It gave me strength, and
she has borne him none.
He might have loved if I had been the
mother of his son.
Mary, pray- for me.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
How “The Keyhole” Fell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ASCRIBE my ruin, and that of my
paper, to Edward McSnatch. He was
one of those large, profusely-whiskered,
impressive characters who have a knack of
involving, with the best of intentions, then'
own affairs and tho.se of all with whom they
come in contact. A more earnest fellow
never breathed. But in proportion as lie
was upright and enthusiastic, he was a peril
to himself and to others.
I was editor-proprietor of The Keyhole
when I met him first. The policy of The
Keyhole was to expose the machinations of
Rome and of the High Church secL. n of
Anglicanism. We featured escaped nuns, ex-
priests, ritualistic parsons who had taken
to drink, and so on ; and when there was
nothing doing in this connection, we wrote
up one of the Borgias or Torquemada or
someone of that sort. It made stirring read-
ing, and went well with the subscribers,
many of whom got additional excitement
from the delusion that the parties were still
alive and in pursuit of their nefarious prac-
tices. An up-country admirer wrote once
anc| asked by what authority, human or
divine, a man like Auto da Fe was allowed
to remain alive and at large, and he urged
us to 'call upon the godless Romanist Gov-
ernment of Spain to deal with him. Others
inquired angrily what steps Britain pro-
posed to take in regard to Alva and Louis
XI., and whether Papist influences were at
work in I lowning-street itself. Such com-
munications, though misguided, pleased me
as_ indicating that the paper was getting a
grip on its public, and week by week we
gained fresh subscribers, did bigger adver-
tising business and prospered increasingly
in other respects.
And then McSnatch arrived. He bore
high references from Westralia, where he
had been a lay preacher, a captain in the
Salvation Army, check-taker at a swim-
ming bath, tram-conductor, revivalist, secre-
tary to a political candidate who subse-
quently forfeited his deposit and was pro-
ceeded against for a number of offences
under the Electoral Act, an object-lesson in
the merits of a hair-restorer, and bi-weekly
visiting gardener to a convent. He also had
references from Tasmania and Queensland
and elsewhere. They went to show that
he had led a various and troubled life, but
that through it all he had preserved a spirit
of Christian fortitude and a desire to do
better for himself and for everyone around
him. He was, perhaps, 50 years of age. He
ascribed his abnormal hairiness (his face was
uot so much a face as an appurtenance to a
tangled forest of whiskers) to a lifelong
abstention from alcoholic stimulant of any
sort. He had been converted, recently, from
the Plymouth Brethren sect to Primitive
Methodism, after a brief term as an Eddy-
ite. He was born a Presbyterian.
A number of considerations persuaded me to
offer him the editorship of our “Aunt Martha”
column. I was finding it a tax upon myself
when undertaken in conjunction with the
leader-writing and the poultry 'Section. The
growing business of the paper called for an
extra hand, in any case. McSnatch was
transparently honest. I argued that his
wanderings must have given him valuable
experience. Also his job at tbe convent
would provide the office with a certain
amount of badly-needed inside information
on the subject of these institutions.
He proved to be a tiger for work. He
would arrive at 8.30, cut out of the U.S. files
accounts of the misrortunes that had hap-
pened to Romanist priests, Anglican vicars
and curates, Armenian bishops, monks of
the Greek and Russian churches, and so on,
and leave them, one on top of the other,
for me. In the event of a shortage of
clerical scandals, he would get down the
Encyclopaedia and turn up undesirables of
the Romanist persuasion hitherto almost
unknown. It was in this way that I came
to do my expose of neofric the Bloody (a
thegn of Harold the Ganger, the only Norse
chieftain who attenued the peace of Clair-
sur-Epte circa 912), and several other tell-
ing things of the sort.
The “Aunt Martha” column was a trifle
to one of his tireless energy. It was made
up of letters from children to a supposi-
titious relative, such as the following:
Dear Aunt Martha,— l live at Warrangoola with
my ma and pa. We have a dog named Harry, with
a beautiful long tail and a wall eye. I love Kim
dearly. I have a little playmate named Willie
Smith. He says when he is big enough he will go
and fight the Germans. Is he not brave? No more
at present, from your loving Mary Jones (aged
eight years and two months). •
Underneath, McSnatch would "write :
I was delighted to get your cleVer letter, Mary.
What a pleasant home you must have with your pa
and ma and the dog Harry. Certainly Wiliie is a
brave little fellow to want to fight the horrid
Germans, and if the war only goes on long enough
his wish may be gratified. Write again soon to your
affectionate old Aunt Martha.
As time went on I grew to depend more
and more upon McSnatch. He would write
with equal fluency on the Athanasian creed,
the idiosyncrasies of Muscovy ducks, and
the feeble quality of Newman’s mind as evi-
denced in his “Apologia.” Into the raids*
of all this peace came, suddenly, discord ir
the form of a letter from Messrs. Pergrumm
and Hizditche, solicitors, Nangkor, Vic. 11
ran:
Dear Sir, — Re the cruel and scandalous libel c i
our client, Archdeacon Harold Dusty, in your issi e
of Thursday last. We are instructed to demand a
full and immediate apology, failing which we wou d
be glad to know the name of a solicitor who wi 11
accept service of process on your behalf. —Yours,
etc., Pergrumm & Hizditche.
A hurried search revealed the following
in the “Aunt Martha” section :—■
My Dear Auntie, —I live in Nangkor, and I would
like to be one of your little nephews. I am the
most religious boy in the town. All my friends are
religious, too, or I would not know them, as I have
been taught that people are judged by their friends.
Almost every afternoon I go to the” vestry of our
church and meet my little friend Betsy Hobsmail.
We sometimes meet there in the evenings, too, and
have long chats about the good work we are doing
for the world. Betsy’s relations do not know of our
meetings. We think it such fun to have a Mystery.
When we cannot have the vestry to ourselves we go
for long walks in the bush. I hope I shall write to
you many times- again.—Your dear little nephew,
Harold Dusty.
Underneath McSnatch had written :—•
A very nice little letter, Harold, but I am grieved
that you should deceive Betsy’s relations even to
enjoy what you call a Mystery. Remember, Harold,
that no good comes of deception, and that Mr. Hobs-
mail, or whoever is responsible for Betsy’s welfare,
would be justifiably annoyed if he found out. I
trust, when next I hear from you, that I shall learn
that you have made a clean breast of it like the
little man I know you are. —Your loving Aunt
Martha.
Inquiries in Nangkor quickly indicated to
us that the hand of malice had been at
work. Archdeacon Harold Dusty proved to
be a local ecclesiastic of the Anglican per-
suasion. Mrs. Betsy Hohsmail was one of
his best-known and most-respected parishion-
ers.
McSnatch was unperturbed. He said:
“I am not unused to situations of this
kind. I was for seven months in the office
of Mr. Boulger, of Kariunda —now in
prison, and removed from the rolls on
entirely false charges of forgery and the
embezzlement of trust moneys. I will write
the customary form of apology and correc-
tion.”
This appeared on the leader page of our
next issue :—-
Apology and Correction.
Y ith reference to the charges of immorality
directed against the Ven. Archdeacon Harold Dustv
and Mrs. Betsy Hobsmail, both of Nangkor, 'we
never, at any time, officially proposed to level such
charges. We are assured by representatives of the
parties concerned that the said charges are baseless,
and therefore have the utmost pleasure in tendering
our apologies and regrets in respect of the same.
Three days later writs arrived from the
Archdeacon and Mrs. Hobsmail claiming
£5OOO apiece. McSnatch still preserved his
habitual calm.
“I deduce,” he said, “from the simulta-
neous arrival of these writs and the similar-
ity of the sums claimed that the parties
have been conferring.”
I said, “That appears to be so,” and
handed him a notice of an application to
have the suits consolidated. He was
delighted to find his judgment thus con-
firmed.
“Leave the whole affair to me,” he said
confidently. “Our present attitude is one
of quiescence. We have first to see how
they frame their case. That they will be
forced to disclose to me upon delivery of
their statement of claim. This case,” and
he rubbed his hands in a pleased manner,
‘ promises many features of interest. Mean-
while. it would perhaps be as well if I fur-
bished up my legal knowledge. If you will
advance me a few shillings I will endeavor
to pick up a couple of the necessary law
books.”
I handed him two shillings from the petty
cash. He came back, about an hour later,
returned me 7d., and showed me what he
called “a Roscoe,” for which he had paid
7d. at a second-hand bookshop, and Bullen
and Leake’s “Precedents of Pleading” (1857
edition), which had cost him lOd. He
appeared more gratified than ever, and said :
“Now, I think we have got them.”
The statement of claim arrived in due
course. McSnatch was delighted with it.
He said : "We are now on firm ground. We
(Continued on next page.)


WEAR BACKS.
Backache is really kidney ache ; the
ache comes from the kidneys, which
lie just beneath the small of the back.
When the back is weak and lame
when it “cricks” if you turn sharply,
or stoop —when it burns with a burn-
ing- ache, and keeps you awake half
the night—when you cannot bend
without a stab-like pain taking you- —
when it makes hard work of the least
task—when it sets the whole body,
every limb and muscle, aching—give
your kidneys help at once in Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s Pills
are a special and bladder
medicine; they give strength and
tone to the kidneys themselves, and
so cure the cause of backache.
Though backache is one of the
most common signs of kidney com-
plaint, there are other equally certain
symptoms, such as :
Gravel, rheumatic pains, watery
.swellings in the ankles and beneath
the eyes, urinary troubles, dizzy
spells, pains in the limbs, spots be-
fore the eyes, sallow complexion, etc.
Doan’s Pills flush out the liquid
poison that causes these symptoms,
and so protect you from the fatal
Bright’s disease and dropsy.
Pi
v
y
rr£-
c*
&
j-fr>
5/
i
S5 5 *
“Mykck ismyweaKest spof
''EveryPicture
TellsAStorf
Sydney Man’s Lasting
Cure.
BACKACHE, URINARY DISORDER AND
DROPSICAL SWELLINGS.
Mrs. W. Poulton, 23 Lamb Street. Lilyfield,
Sydney, says:—“My husband suffered terribly
from backache and kidney trouble for some time.
The pains in his back were often so bad that he
could scarcely move, and it was impossible for him
to stoop to lace his boots. If he tried to bend his
back in any way the pain was so awful that he
could not help screaming out. His ankles and legs
swelled a good deal, and be always felt dull and
tired, and could not get proper rest at night. The
kidney secretions were also affected, being thick
and cloudy, with a red sediment. He was really
far from well, but until he took Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills nothing did him any good. This
remedy was recommended to him, and it worked
wonders. After taking two bottles there was a
decided improvement, and by the time he had used
seven bottles of- these famous pills a perfect cure
was effected, and he has never suffered from back-
ache and kidney troubles since, a period of over six
months.”
Two years later Mrs. Poulton confirms the
above: “My husband is still well, and has not
suffered with his kidneys since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured him over two years ago.”
Be Sure You Get “DOAN’S”
LIKE MR. W. POULTON HAD.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per
bottle, or post free by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
gfg
know where we are. I propose ‘to meet
them by setting up every defence known to
the English law.”
The writing, or as he preferred to phrase
it, the settling, of our defence took him
about eight days. He began by denying
publication of the alleged libel, or any of it
the object of this move being, he pointed
out, to lay upon the -other side the burden
ot proof. Alternatively he tendered an
apology and paid a guinea into court,
while denying liability. Alternatively again
lie denied that the words charged bore the
alleged or any other meaning; and in the
further alternative lie pleaded that the said
words constituted fair comment on a
matter of public interest. He was careful
to point out to me that he had avoided a
jilda of justification as being hazardous in
the circumstances.
I had not suspected McSnatch’s inca-
pacity to handle the situation till there was
served on us an order for particulars of what
was termed our “idea of justification.”
McSnatch was bewildered. I pointed out
to him that lie claimed to have expressly
avoided pleading justification. His answer
was: “I fear that, lawyer-like, they are
attempting to construe our plea of fair com-
ment into one of justification.” He now
bore manv of the marks of the beaten man.
After further conversation of a depressed,
even alarmed, nature, he surprised me by
suggesting that I should consult a solicitor.
The solicitor said: “The situation is
grave. I can say no more at present. I
must consult counsel. How. much money
have you got?”
I went away to raise money on my only
asset, The Keyhole.
* * * *
Who shall describe the horrors and
degradations of the trial? I remember it
now as a disjointed series of nightmare
episodes. My cross-examination was one
long agony. Mr. Gammon, the K.C. for the
other side, cross-questioned me closely upon
my leaders of the previous six months. I
learned, during the luncheon interval, that
the Judge was a High Churchman, and that
the questions were calculated to inflame him
against me. One article, in particular, in
which I had compared Dr. Nugent, the
rector of the Judge’s place of worship, to
Heliogabalus, and also to “a clerical Nero
fiddling while the Anglican Church burned
in the fires of Romanism,” occupied the
Court for about an hour. The unfriendli-
ness—l had almost written disgust—of the
Judge became marked from now onwards.
The arrival of McSnatch in the box was
the signal for laughter which, it seemed to
me, the court usher did little to suppress.
Our counsel, a young fellow by the name
of Podgrind, appeared powerless to protect
the witness from the ribald jokes of his
more assured confrere.
At the conclusion of McSnatch’s examina-
tion-in-chief, Mr. Gammon called loudly
for the production of “Aunt Martha.” A
scene of bar-room levity followed in which,
to his shame be it said, the Judge joined
for several seconds. W 7 ith creditable dignity
McSnatch remained grave throughout the
sorry scene. Upon Podgrind explaining that
McSnatch was “Aunt Martha,” the man
Gammon affected incomprehension.
“I call for the removal of her whiskers,
yer Honor,” he cried. “It’s an attempt to
bias the jury.’”
He also persistently addressed McSnatch
as “Auntie,” “My girl,” and “Auntie Wire-
whiskers,” and at one stage so far forgot
himself as to demand a medical examination
to determine the witness’s sex.
McSnatch was among the few in coyirt
who appeared to appreciate the seriousness
of the proceedings. His self-command was
kingly.
The Judge’s summing-up can only be
described as malignant. He either was, or
affected to be, wholly incapable of under-
standing our point of view. He remarked
at one stage: '
When our forefathers struggled for, and estab-
lished, the liberty of the press, they never for one
moment contemplated that it would degenerate into
the grossest license. In this case the defendants had
not only disseminated a cruel and odious libel, but
had piled Pelion upon Ossa by persisting to the
last that it was true. It was only when the Law
itself, by means of an order for particulars, directed
them to disclose any fact or facts in their possession,
that they were compelled to admit that there was
not one shred of reliability in their scandalous
allegations.
It was at this reference to his unfortunate
error that McSnatch found the ordeal un-
endurable and left the court. The effect
of the Judge’s bitter words on the jurymen
was patent to all. They conferred for a
matter of minutes only. Their verdict was
for the plaintiffs and the damages were fixed
at £475. The foreman, speaking for the
jury, expressed sympathy with the Arch-
deacon and Mrs. Hobsmail, and said his
soul revolted at the conduct of McSnatch
and myself.
It was in this way that I became a book-
canvasser.
The funds realisable from The Keyhole
had just sufficed to carry me through the
trial. There was nothing in hand either
for the Archdeacon’s damages or for his
costs. These had been so heavy as to ex-
haust his last farthing, and more. A sum
of money having been placed in his bands
by a number of sympathisers, his solicitor
immediately filed a petition in bankruptcy
in respect of some costs which were out-
standing, and the sum, as it lay in the
bank, was attached. As the outcome of
these proceedings he was called before his
bishop, who explained that, while he had.
in a measure, cleared his character, yet the
occupation of the archdiaconate by one
who was financially unsound was unthink-
able.
Despite the ruin which he had brought
upon me, I could never feel other than sorry
for the, in a sense, unmerited calamities
which had overtaken this unhappy divine.
Too old to adapt himself to any other call-
ing he was in the end thankful to accept
an engagement with the Baptists.
McSnatch. earnest and active as ever,
was attached to a theatrical venture wlieD
last I heard from him.
J. B. D.
The Coming of Henry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f is the history of Anna Matilda.
Anna Matilda went to the,township
called Tenpence when she was quite
a girl, and at the age of 58 she was still at
Tenpence. At 20 she was pretty enough,
thev say; at 58 she was a. gaunt, white
woman, as old as plenty of women at 70.
Tenpence itself could see nothing remark-
able in Miss Green for the reason that to
most of the inhabitants she had always been,
and, so far as recollection—went, had never
been extremely different. . But strangers
always paused to look after little Miss
Green, and were always’ concerned about
her, when they showed no manner of inter-
est in Beeton who owned the lime-kilns, nor
in fat Mrs. Carter whose husband had left
her a hotel and £ll,OOO.
Miss Green kept a small shop and did a
little dressmaking. She was also the sole
milliner of Tenpence, and the popular im-
pression was that she had a “nice bit” hid-
den away somewhere.
She was a woman who was waiting. For
close upon 40 years she had been waiting,
and the older she grew the more she looked
like a woman waiting. She was so obviously
waiting and expectant that the first question
of the stranger, after watching her pass,
was always flie same: “What the devil does
the woman want?”
Of course Tenpence had the answer pat,
and naturally the story was romantic and
conventional. When Anna Matilda was a
pretty girl of 23 she had fallen in love with
a young fellow who had previously fallen in
love with her. The young fellow had gone
abroad, to Melbourne or Sydney, to make
his way in the world, promising to return
for her. At 58 she was still waiting for her
young man, and still full of faith.
Little Miss Green’s actions corroborated
this tale to some extent. Every day, except
Sunday, she put on her funny old black hat
at half-past three in the afternoon, and
went up the street, over the log bridge, and
up the hill to Mrs. Carter’s gabled inn
(known locally as “The Ark”) and sat on
the stump under the big gum, if it were dry,
and on the deal form under the inn verandah,
if it were wet, and waited for the coach to
come in. No matter how late the coach
might be Miss Green waited. Once when
there had been a breakdown she re-
mained patiently on her stump till close
on midnight, with no sustenance but the
cup of tea fat and kindly Mrs. Carter forced
upon her.
The Tenpenny coach brought visitors and
homecomers up from the railway at
Cameron’s Flat, and when Anna Matilda
had seen all the passengers, and old Crowe,
the driver (who had been “Black” Crowe
but had turned “white”) had called out:
“Not this trip, Anner!” Miss Green turned
and went quietly home again, without a
glint of emotion in the steady, dark eyes
that lent a weird skull-like seeming to her
white face seen at some little distance.
At 58 the little woman still \Yent over the
log bridge and up the hill to meet, the coach
froiu Cameron’s. Three coaches had gone
to pieces in those 85 years, but old Crowe
and little Miss Green kept their unfailing
tryst.
On a bright spring afternoon in 1908,
young Woods went on the box seat with
Crowe from Cameron’s to Tenpence to in-
quire with regard to a certain 90-acre block
of arable land beyond Buttercup, up the
Shindy Creek, evidence of the existence of
which had been found amongst a small cart-
load of documents recently his by inherit-
ance as the son and heir of the late Henry
Woips, Esq., of Oldfield, Hawthorn.
Woods was 27. smartly-dressed, town-bred
and infinitely superior. He brought gloves
and a cane to Tenpence.
Henry Woods, stepping down from the
coach before the quaint, gabled inn in its
rich, spring setting, found himself con-
fronted by a small, slim, white old woman
who looked strangely into his face and put
a white, thin hand towards him. Henry
looked up at Crowe inquiringly, and liis
lips framed the word “Mad?” But old
Crowe was absorbed, looking at Anna
Matilda.
Miss Green put two thin hands out to
young Mr. Woods. “Henry!” she whis-
pered. She threw herself upon him, her
arms clasped his neck, her face was buried
iu his breast. “Henry!” she cried. “Henry!
Henry!” and then she slid from the dis-
gusted youth and lay, a small, limp heap,
on the yellow gravel.
Mrs. Carter knelt by little Miss Green.
She busied herself unbuttoning and freeing
the woman’s neck. Presently she held up
a small, old-fashioned photograph she had
taken from over the poor old heart of Anna
Matilda Green. “You !” she said to young
Mr. Woods.
Henry looked at the picture, his face be-
trayed sudden perplexity. “Me!” he said.
Certainly the face in the photograph was
curiously like that of young Mr. Woods, and
across the bottom of the figure in a bold
hand and faded ink was scrawled the sen-
tence : “Adoring you till death —Henry. u
Suddenly Henry understood. “By God,”
he said, “it is my old man !'”
They put Anna Matilda to bed. She
lived three days, and she kept up her illu-
sion and delusion to the end, and young
Mr. Woods was man enough to see it
through. Full of the vigor of 24, ruddy
with health, handsome as a wood god turned
tailor, young Mr. Woods sat by the bedside
of the little, white, old woman, and held her
thin hand as she passed.
“I knew you would come. It seemed long,
but now I know it was not long at all. My
dear one!” said Anna Matilda, “my dear
one, you have come !”
“Yes, love,” whispered young Mr. Woods,
“and now nothing shall part us.” . And like
a man young Mr. Woods kissed the thin, old
lips. Then the. smile faded and softened,
and Anna Matilda went to meet the other
Henry.
EDWARD DYSON.


dfg
WESTINGHOUSE (Morse)
Rocker Joint Chain Drives
fg
The Rocker-Joint
by its rolling
action eliminates
rubbing friction;
the pins, being
dead hard, en-
sure long life.
10 -h.p. Drive — - 9 Pitch x 2lin. wide,
r.p.rn 875/360.
fg
The true me-
chanical move-
ments are verified
by THE SILENCE
whilst working.
Attention and
upkeep ARE
NIL.
Your power account will be decidedly reduced by the installation
of one of our drives, and your output greatly increased.
Wheels manufactured at our works and Chain supplied from
local Stocks.
Head Office - „ _ .
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents -HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office -99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
dfgd
[3
ďg
DINNEFORD'S
f
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFQRD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use,
fg
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ĝ
ğf
For easy tube screwing in cramped quarters,
For fast and accurately-cut work use
OSTER
RATCHET
SCREWING
TACKLE
with the 5 famous Bulldog features: (1) Self-locking, adjustable guides,
(■?) self-centreing guides, (3) no running hack over newly-cut threads,
(1) n() loose bushings, <5) no small parts. Ask your ironmonger,
machinery, hardware or plumbing-supply maker, or write
CHAS J. WRIGHT, Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria,
Australasian Representative for
THE OSTER MFG. CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
A
BROODY HENS for 12/0.
The “HATOHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596: CURES Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
%
M
TYjRES
/zr&BEn
THREE
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
■mailed on request.
6. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON JSROS., 2X2, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.8.—70
fP hijj
BcccDam'sPills
may be relied upon, at all times, to exercise a tonic,
cleansing, healing influence upon the digestive organs.
A sensible use of this well-known specific is generally
all that is needed to relieve and remove those disorders
of the stomach liver and bowels, which are always
associated with dyspepsia in any form. Beechanr s Pills
are unfailing as a corrective and invaluable as a safe
stimulant of that important organ, the liver, upon the
efficient action of which so much depends. As a cure
for constipation and for removing its attendant discom-
forts and dangers there is no more reliable remedy. In
fact, as an aid to health generally, the judicious use of
Beecham s Pills is strongly recommended. They are
fl Boon to All
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/H (56 pills) & 2/9 (IGB pills).
gf
SADDLE EASE
is often times the
one thing needed to
make your pleasure perfect
you can ensure it il you choose a
BROOKS
OF ALL DEALERS.
gf
ƒgd
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
"You Won't Wear This Steel Barrow
out in a hurry!”
This TUBULAR STEEL BARROW is without a rival wherever there is rough
usage—easily lasting out three or four wooden barrows. Tray s are pressed fi oni
a solid plate of toughest steel, without seam or rivet —thus they have much
greater strength than riveted trays of equal thickness. Note how the tubular
handles pass round in front and protect the wheel when “dumping.
The tray is detachable, too. making the frame handy for carrying lengths of wood,
pipe, etc.
The Tubular Steel Barrow
is one that lasts. Carrying hot ashes a speciality. The Barrow for Mines, Mills,
Gas Companies, Furnaces, etc. Duplicate parts in stock.
No. 10.—Capacity 400 to 500'lb. earth 77/6
No. 4s.— Capacity 3 cubic feet earth 507-
No. AX. —Capacity 3 cubic feet earth • 40/-
We Specialise in Engineers’ Supplies, and supply anything from Cotton Waste to a
High-speed Lathe. Tell us your needs. We shall be pleased to mail Catalogue and Prices. -
Proprietary Limited
Machinery, Iron & Tool Merchants,
Collins St., Melbourne; and Bathurst St., Sydney.
Established 56 Years.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGROVIT
LEATHER
LTI
whioh is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
wt
t*<kn
m
"AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE Brand
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured by Highly-skilled Workmen from Best Sheffield
Crucible Cast-Steel Plates. Sizes 6in. dia. to 72in. dia.
BAND-SAWS, % to 1% wide.
SAW REPAIRING A SPECIALITY.
IRON AND STEEL FOR MACHINE KNIVES.
R 62 SPECIAL MILL-SAW FILES.
Testimonial from an Australian Sawmiller : —“When
I bought that 42in. saw from you I also got some
Special Files. Have you any more? There is none
other that we have used to hold a candle to them.’’
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Australian
Offices—
r 379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
46 Boulder Road, Kalgooriie; Cliff Street, Fremantle;
{ Brisbane: John Reid & Nephews; Adelaide: Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd
Sheffield, England.
GENUINE
"FIBRO-CEMENT”
Sheets & Slates for all Building Purposes
“REXILITE”
Flat Hoofing and Dampeourse
(Approved by Public Works Department).
FfbeFil^
The Building Board madefrom Root Fib,
For Interior Walls and Ceilings.
Write for Samples from
JRMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney. ’
And at Melbourne; “Courier” Buildinss
Brisbane; and at Adelaide. ’
WOLFE'S
Should he in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNAPP
Farmers 8 Chaffcutting Contractors!
Please note specially that we are now Sole Agent*
in New South Wales for the celebrated
ďgf
“BUNCLE”
Chaffcutter
The machine of 60 years’
standing, and need on the
majority of Australian
Farms,
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Tangye Portable Oil Engine.
Big Stocks—Quick Delivery & Satisfaction guaranteed
with every machine. Write us for Catalogues.
Tangrye Suction Gas Plant.
Clayton & Slmttlewortli
Traction Engine.
DALGETY & CO. LTD,
Sole Agents,
Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
oil Engines, Pumps, Irrigation Plants, etc.
»k/inu 0 l < & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction Engines.
“S™ Implements. WOLSELEY Sheep-sbearing Machines.
CANE Milling Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, etc.
>^r
E.R.B. Separator Engine,
manufactured specially for
driving separators. Won-
derfully simple and
reliable. Price, £42/10/-
r-
dfg
Crutch mg Machines
Overcome the Blow-fly Pest by using the simplest, surest and most
satisfactory Clutching .Machines—The Wolseley. Made for all flock
holders——large or small—and represent a grand investment.
stands W ° lseley Electlic Clutching Outfit, complete with Engine and Dynamo, capable of
arivmg six stands IN STOCK FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
Write NOW for full particulars, including Motive Power, Post Free.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD., Australasian Agents. AH Branches .
fg
SAFETY FIRST.
SERVICE ALWAYS
The Problem of Safety-the Problem of Eliminating Waste Power-
Reduction of present Factory Costs-these are all
solved for you by equipping' your plant witb
Bodge Power Transmission Appliances
EEI
Pulleys Self-Oiling Bearings, Adjustable Shaft Hangers, Friction Clutches, Couplings, Collars
t i,„ p, . .. “ r *»—■> anu me ease v
tne Uodge line, and must appeal to alt practical Engineers and Mill Owners
# 7 - ua ua
earned in Stock for quick delivery by Sole Agents—
PARKE ®. LACY CO. LTD..
—Power Transmission Appliances.” Is available.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
:
r.
. ■
m
HOOE OIL ENGINES
A WONDERFUL POWER MACHINE.
RUNS ON ANY KIND OF OIL THAT FLOWS, PREFERABLY DISTILLATE OIL.
No Battery Magneto or Igniter Required.
Spark produced by Compression of Oil, separating the lighter parts
from the heavier and igniting them.
A 4 h.p. Engine can be run 10 hours under a full load with distillate oil for only a day. *
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building:,
350 Georgre St., Sydney
