

SPIRIT SUPERB.
Our Brave Australian Boys are Galling for YOUR HELP!
The traditions of your race demand a willing and noble response.
Will you fail them in this hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF YOUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS IT ¥ I f
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written. *--/ JL.' Jl wJI «
R.. G. WATKINS C&i, CD,, Iron and Machinery Merchants, 107 Stent Street, Sydney
m
m
\ ■
V-.
We Adv&pce
nooey
on all classes of
security
Trade Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE* CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “DAILY TELEGRAPH” NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W,
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
FIFTY PAGE BOOK-POST FREE
SLEEP IN Oft
OUTDOORS
IN COMFORT
TRY OUR
PATENT BED
FOR HOTELS
FLATS, AND
Bungalows
REVOLVES IN
22 INCHES.
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO.,
380 GEORGE ST (near G.p o.), SYDNEY.
5=5
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
“A Great Record!”
PINEAPPLE” BRAND
45 YEARS THE BEST
Hams & Bacon
RAW SON MOODY ALL-STEEL FENCE
r
built with powerful steel posts and wire, t and
possessing wonderful advantages over wooden
post fences, as it saves 80 per cent, in erection
labor and weighs only 25 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For full particulars write to The Rawson Moody Mfg\ Co., 343 Kent St,
Sydney, or send for an Illustrated Cataiogus B.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
| Personal attention a feature of the business^
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
izzsmim
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
The Standard Remedy which has ontlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men,
Used since CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”— refuse all substitutes.
BENSDORP’S
ROYAL
DUTCH
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
w - V-
i
R
&
“SCRUTTON’S” for OIL ENGINES.
Positively THE “Right Firm” to supply you with the WORLD’S BEST (English or American).
Only a few left. Order Early to avoid disappointment.
CASH or EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
*• Where the Best Engines are So/d. "
The WHISKY of the
Connoisseur.
GAELIC
Ten Years Maturing
in Wood.
GILBERT LODGE & CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney. 115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO. LTI
NORTH BRITISH LOCOfIOTIVE CO. LTD.
WM. COOKE & CO. LTD.
BROWN BAYLEY’S STEEL WORKS LTD.
CHANCE BROS. LTD.
Webster & bennett.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Senge of Clean
Freshness to the Moutn.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 38.—N0. 1955.]
[Thursday. August 2, 1917.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post aa a Newspaper


THe Round Table.
JUNE, 1917.
A Quarterly Review of the politics of the British Empire.
C* >NTAINS stirring articles on A War of Liberation;
, The _ New Devdopments in 'the Constitution of
the Empire; The Education of the Citizen; America’s
Entry into the War; Turkey; and contributions
from the United Kingdom and the Dominions.
Price 2/6 per copv. 10/- per annum.
MACMILLAN & CO., Ltd., Russell Street, Melbourne.
A SPIRIT OF QUALITY.
GILBEY’S DRY GIN.
PURE and WHOLESOME.
SEE THAT YOU GET GILBEY’S.
This celebrated Gin is
specially recommended
for those suffering
from
KIDNEY
COMPLAINTS
and
RHEUMATISM.
TUCKER <a CO., Sydney, Sole Agents.
FOR THE. LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes,
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC FOR
COU<»HS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA, and the PREVENTION
OF CONSUMPTION.
Unlike Cough Medicines, Eumenthol Jujubes do
not interfere with the digestion. On the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the
food.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1 /(, post free on receipt
of Stamps, from
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Company Ltd.
Street, Kortnev.
A—The Larynx,
or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea,
or windpipe. C
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D—A lobe of one
of the lungs.
f«
The Red Page
Paems by Frank Morton
THE MOTTI.
A moifeiii here in my lamplit room,
A .rrt# hrdsm '.fiwqd against my face,
Ktoger to restch the,; but /, who knew
-fl/ow pitiably armed' irgpinst the flar e
i So frail hfihipd must bdetook the wee ihmg
All gently to the window, and with core
Proportioned to fragility
Gav&if t7ic.fTchd f /ih : spacious right.
So in the end Gfod s hand shall close upon
My small, pretentious spirit, that would
knoih
All secrets of the flame that lures me still •
The flame tremendous of Ilis awful mind J
And He shall bear to a place wherein
Are neither fires nor fools to bruise my
wings,
And there shall give me license to have peace
And float for ever borne upon His breath
Through all the night upon His eternity.
A NIGHT PIECE.
The Moon against my window beats and
beams
And croons and sighs;
But- mightier, lordlier, spurring all my
dreams ,
Across the deeps great Sirius flames ajar,
Lord paramount of all these nearer skies—
These homely skies that are a dust of gold.
The night is vast,
And ah, my dreams are bold
Now, by day's limitations uncontrolled,
My hopes no longer dwarfed and overcast
By day's dull reek of miseries mxinifoldl
Day's noises past,
The night is grave, inscrutable, and grey,
The night is golden, exquisite, (find deep,
The silent comforter of those that weep,
Incomparably grander than the day,
Immense and cold.
Across the deeps great Sirius flames afar
And warms my heart, and makes it plain to
me
How small a corner of Infinity
We call Creation; so that in my dreams,
All careless of the smug contemptuous Moon
And of the sceptic Day that comes so soon,
J feel and knotv
That past the point where Sirius flames, afar
There is a region where the old suns are,
Where all things live in happy union, though
Tremendous space begirds them, each
demesne
A point apart 'mid measureless vogues
serene—
A million million leagues from star to star.
The Moon against my widow beats and
beams
And croons and sighs;
But mightier , lordlier, spurring all dreams,
Across the deeps great Sirius flames afar,
Lord Paramount of all these nearer skies.
There is a region where the old suns are. ...
The nearer heavens are a dust of gold.
THE STROLLER.
Young Love comes lilting down the street,
Beribboned cap and sprig of heather;
And, oh. his smile and song are sweet,
To suit the golden weather.
The staid prim spinsters starched and old
Glance out of windows as he passes,
And something from his eyes of gold
Steals in behind their glasses;
While city men, all shrewd and grim,
With thin tight lips and paunch obtrusive,
Half smile, and try to catch from him
That melody elusive.
And dainty schoolgirls cease from play,
Eyes lowered, as he passes near them....
Ah. if they could but dare to pray!
Ah, should he deign to hear them!
But you and I , my heart, my heart,
Love Love as J.ove loves us, and surely
He would not have us stand apart
And bow to him demurely!
We kiss his lips and gladly prove
How brave the gifts he can bestow. It
Is good to be in lore with Lore
And good to let him know it.
Boy Love comes laughing down the street,
Love and my dear and I together;
And, oh, his songs are blithe and sweet, ,
To suit this golden weather!
From “Verses for Marjorie” (Lothian,
Melbourne, per Sydney Book Club.)
The rostmaster-General is responsible for
this belated notice of Frdnk Morton’s
Verses for Marjorie and Some Others (with
portrait; why? Lothian, Melb., printed in
England, per Sydney Book Club). At least
two copies were posted by the author him-
self to this page when he learned that his
publisher’s review copy had not arrived, and
neither came to hand. Frank Morton needs
no bush. There is good Australian wine in
the cellar here. Even when he is writing
kiddy verses Morton cannot help being both
clever and sophisticated. When he is writing
verses to, or mostly of. grown-up female
children he is merely Frank. He “brllligs”
cleverly but pretentiously :—•
There's the Double-bristled Boogoo and the
Wiftish and the Flibe,
The Whale-hawk and the Hairy Pigli-
wimple;
There's the Zookoo and the Tweekum and
some others of their tribe —
You may know them by the pinkness of
their dimple.
Marjorie may have been different, but the
average child receives this with a bleak in-
difference.
Frank Morton must be getting on now: he
and bis muse (twins) were born sometime m
the 18th century- He writes charming invo-
cations to Pierrette, and he rimes prettily to
My Lady Death —mock pathos and genteel
sentiment. But he can be desperately
naughty when he puts on his modern mood.
Most daringly he will write you a ballad to
his mistress’s —well, any part of her, but it
is all done with such an air of innocence
that it really doesn’t matter, least of all to
the lady. It is like a good little boy trying
hard to be wicked. When, discussing dimples
be shyly tells us that:
The stars go shuddering down the night
To see her dimpled tvaist so white,
you know that neither the stars nor Frank
Morton were shocked. In fact, the only
shock that this innocent page gets iff the
whole hook was at page 74, where the poet
rimes “dawning” with “morning.” Even in
the delightful—well, honeymoon, of “Bus in
Urbe”: —
There never was another girl I think,
So finely fitted for each moment's uses
As you. my dear. What shall we have to
drink?
Come! I'll take no denials or excuses.
Then (three pages later) :
There never was another' girl, T think,
So—poor old kid! how soundly she is sleep-
ing!—
he is too busy analysing and itemising his
lady’s features and moods to do us, or her,
any harm. He makes love to many ladies,
but it is literary love.
Of poetry in this book there is enough,
together with some excellent character
drawings, one or two fine sonnets, neat
humor, clever triolets and other tricky forms
of verse, though this page is surprised to find
no example of modern unrimed free verse
from one so expert in metrical intricacies.
Mary MacLunacy
I am Mary Mac Lane: of no importance to
the wide, bright world, and clearly and
damnably important to Me. Face to
face I look at Me with some hatred,
with despair and with, great intent-
ness ....
I am rare—l am in some ways exquisite.
I am pagan within and without.
I am vain and shallow and false.
I am a specialised being, deeply myself....
I am slender in body and someway fragile
and firm-fleshed and sweet,
I am oddly a fool and a strange, complex
liar and a spiritual vagabond....
In brief, I am a human being. .. .
I am ir age oue and thirty....
I am not a charming person. Quite seventy
jugiy-used adjectives would better fit
me.
, But I have some charm of youth, and a
charm of sex, and a charm of intellect
and intuition, and some charms of per-
sonality. ...
I live an immoral life. It is immoral because
it is deadly futile
But to be an ardent pickpocket or an eager
harlot would feel honester....
And all the while I think and think....
My sex is to me a mystic gift. I marvel
over it and clothe it silkenl.v.. ..
My mind wanders in sex-chaos and muses on
piquant impure things, enchanting vil-
lainies, odd inversions, whatnot....
Some dusks I sit bv my window looking out,
and hotly and coldly want a Lover:
hotly with my, body and coldly with my
mind.
I wanted a Lover like the jungle leopard
leaping through the Springtime covert
at nightfall to find his mate. . ..
And while I walk I think....
I long to do a Murder.
I want to feel one big, hot, red bloody Kiss-
of-Life placed square and strong on my
mouth and shot straight into me to the
back wall of my Heart....
I listlessly change into the other black
dress for listless dinner-time, and'all my
* thought is that my abdomen is beauti-
fully flat, and that I must purchase a
new petticoat.
I rub a little rouge on my pale mouth, and
1 idlingly recall a clever and filthy
story I once heard....
It’s a Sundav midnight, and I've just eaten
a Cold Boiled Potato.
I shall never be able to write one-tenth of
my fondness for a Cold Boiled Pota-
to....
I am a hundred times more introspective
than most people, most women....
I wish I’d been born a Wild Boar.
I scent my belongings faintly with Hou-
bigant’s Quelques Violettes perfume
I wear five and a half A-!ast shoes; number
21 snug whalebone stays; and weigh
124 pounds.
I am fond of green peas, baseball and dia-
mond rings.
I like violently to spoil a little charlotte
russe with a fork : it gives me the same
feeling of lawless sweet-fiery lust which
must "belong to a Moslem soldier when
deflowering a Christian virgin, and
harms nobody....
I, Mary Mac Lane, so conscious of Me and
so garbedly gifted, want a thousand
kisses at 11 o’clock* of a still even-
ing. . ..
From what lips—what do 1 care? —so they
be eager and live and tenderly false.. . .
I am a deeply-gifted woman. . . .
From “I, Mary Mac Lane” (Stokes, New
York, per Sydney Book Club).
d*
From Mary Mac Lane’s portrait in I, Mary
Mac Lane, this page thinks that she should
spend more time in doing her hair and less
in writing. This long-sustained hemorrhage
of adjectives and poses is meant to be the
revelation of the author’s soul; but Mary
Mac Lane suffers from two drawbacks: (1)
she has no revelation to make, and (2) she
doesn’t possess a soul. To qualify, she does
make a revelation, but it is unconscious: it
is the revelation of a futile sex-starved, un-
attractive, neurotic spinster, and the only
person for whom it would have an interest
is an alienist or a specialist in neurotics.
Still, as a previous book by her gained her a
certain notoriety and the accompanying dol-
lars, she has been tempted to go on. Neurotic
women will love it.
The most painfully self-revealing thing
about this unpleasant flux of words is the
author’s belief that she matters. She tells
us that she thinks and thinks, but the truth
is she merely moons. , She stays up
till 4 a.m. to moon. She worries whether
God hates her. It has never occurred to her
that God probably doesn't bother. She even
writes God a tremendously long letter all
about the soul she hasn’t got, but doesn’t
print Ilis reply. Judged by her own evi-
dence she has never been in love or been
loved, though she admits one solitary inci-
dent : “After the dinner we were standing by
a teak-wood sideboard, and the strange man
was holding me tightly in his arms against a
large smooth evening panel of shirt-front,
and he was kissing my mouth with a great
deal of ardor. I did not like it.... I waited
boredly for him to have done. (It’s no use
struggling.)” And once she admits she
actually bathed, “whitely naked,” under a
cascade, where there was no possibility of
onlookers. A perfectly natural and innocent
thing to do, since she hadn’t a bathing-gown
handy, but all that Mary thinks about it is
that there was nothing Refined in it. Her
sex-starved self smears a nauseous prudery
over so simple an act. It is the same per-
verted instinct that makes her describe her
innocently adulterous dreams. A longing for
notice of her inconspicuous self, even if it
only be the notoriety of a best-seller, forces
her to particularise her physical charms and
make frequent mention of her corsets and
her garters; she prostitutes herself for the
female novel-reader ; she wants a lover and
a child —it would all be pathetic if it were
not so silly.
It seems a pity that in the midst of all
her moonings the thought doesn’t strike her
that she should get work. Eight hours a
day at a factory or office would drive all the
Mary Mac Lunacy out of her. But her
chief fault is her insincerity. She pretends
that she is making a complete revelation of
her “soul.” She could do this only by an
absolute frankness that would preclude the
publication of her disclosures. Yet she could
write for publication in a medical or lunacy
journal. But Mary Mac Lane prefers the
notoriety and the dollars.
Probably, despite the intentionally soulful
eyes of the portrait, Mary Mac Lane is a
clever, brisk, business-like American journal-
ist, 6ex uncertain—presumably male and pro-
bably bald. And he's making, to use one of
Mary’s frequent feebly-forcible adjectives, a
Damn good thing out of it.
r -©_ ——
Alexander Aaronsohn is a Roumanian
Jew who emigrated to Palestine on the
impulse of the Zionist movement. Ilis little
colony in Palestine was run on the most up-
to-date methods. Eucalyptus trees w r ere im-
ported from Australia, agricultural imple-
ments from America, and to the disgust of
the Arabs poultry-raising on a large scale
was undertaken by the use of incubators. The
communistic settlement granted votes to
women in this land of harems. Aaronsohn
took a course of agriculture in the U.S.A.
andx when the war broke out he was in
Palestine taking film-pictures for the pur-
pose of forwarding the Zionist movement in
America. In With the Turks in Palestine
(Constable, 2s. in England) he tells what
happened to him. This included his con-
scription as a soldier and afterwards as a
military navvy, and the torture of the bas-
tinado, which consists of being beaten on the
hare soles of the feet until you faint. The
blood leaps out at the first cut, though the
victim says that the worst part is not the
blow itself Rut the whistling of the rod
through the air. The author is interesting
in his revelations of conditions in the Turk-
ish army; and his efforts to escape are excit-
ing. We learn incidentally that the head of
the Pan-German movement in Palestine was
a German Consul at Haifa, named Von
Hardegg. Even the cartoonists could not
have invented a name like that!
Australian
E. F. Ilanman (“Haystack”) tells of
Twelve Months unth the Anzacs (Watson
Ferguson, Brisbane). He writes simply 0 f
things familiar, though he does not begin t 0
be interesting until The Landing, like this-
“ All along the line men are being hit. One
sergeant-major rose to glance at his men
A shell caught him midway. The upper part
of the trunk went whirling through the air
The lower part remained where the unfor-
tunate chap had been kneeling.” Hanman
records frequent instances of the heroism
that consists in doing one’s work; and
throughout there is appreciation and almost
love for the author’s officers. Here is the
roll-call on the beach when the author’s
battalion was at last relieved: “We noticed
the many silences as name after name re-
mained unanswered. We said nothing, but
we felt the loss of every man. Every silence
was like a knife. Not till now can we real-
ise how much our comrades were to us! We
had lived with them, eaten with them, slept
with them, fought with them... .Why, only
yesterday, even this morning, early, we had
spoken! As our company commander list-
ened, tears filled his eyes. He was, for
several moments, unable to speak. We could
see him swallowing hard, and we turned
away so as not to embarrass him... .Stand-
ing very little over five feet, this tiny chap,
with those sad, solemn eyes, that firm, but
gentle mouth, the high, intellectual forehead,
the long, sensitive nose, and small, well-knit
frame, how much he was to us!” And here a
picture of a trench during a Turkish attack:
“The trench was soon filled with groaning,
cursing men, blood saturated the ground;
rifles became hot, the oil on them began to
bubble and sizzle. They were unbearable to
touch, they refused to work freely, as the
bolts expanded owing to the temperature.”
Like all soldiers he objects to waiting for a
bayonet charge, for then he has time to
think, and he is tortured by every thought.
“One never thinks, what will it feel like to
bayonet a Turk? But, what will it feel like
when a Turk bayonets me? One finds one-
self essaying to imagine what sort of a sen-
sation it must be, to be lying dead, one’s
soul looking down on one’s stiffening body.
How we long to get it over and done!”
This unpretentious narrative by a mem-
ber of the 15th Battalion, 4th Brigade, ably
expresses the outlook of the ordinary Bill-
jim.
J*
Another contribut.on to the limited out-
put of Australian drama is provided by Alex.
Somerville, for whom the Australasian
Authors’ Agency, Melb., prints a four-act
comedy, The Adventure of an Adventuress
(25.). Doubtless the dramatist, recognising
the absurd position of play-writing in Aus-
tralia, where the leading theatrical firm has
no use for the purely Australian play, has
perforce constructed a comedy that has
neither Australian characters nor an Aus-
tralian locale, possibly with the hope of its
acceptance overseas. The four acts take
place in Mentone, France —an ante-bellum
France ; and Iris characters are taken from
the stock-pot of conventional literary
comedy. There is the husband, a successful
English dramatist, his sens.ble wife who gets
on his nerves, the obvious adventuress who
consoles him, and the Pinero friend-of-the-
family who arrives in order to bring the
erring husband back. The characterisation
is on the same conventional lines, and the
dialogue is unexciting and without sparkle.
The artificial quality of the comedy is not
strengthened by the characters’ continual
reference to the play that- the hero is writ-
ing : instead of thus contrasting life with
stage conventions, the author unwittingly
draws attention to the falsity of the comedy
that he has written. The friend-of-the-fainily
remonstrates with the hero: “You couldn’t
wind-up a play with a rotten, unconvincing
anti-climax like that.” But the hero-play-
wright thinks there’s something in that idea,
and does it. The humor is light and the
dialogue talky; but the comedy is a good
example of the conventional sort. Alex.
Somerville shows that the commercial com-
edy can be just as easily written by an
Australian as by an inhabitant of Broadway.
The second volume of The Brisbane,
R.A.N., is published at Ceylon. In this
bright issue the whole of the contents are
contributed by the ship’s company, and it is
apparent that half the crew and all the
officers are poets.
E.H.: “Ato” (Red Page, 28/6/’l7) says: “Who can
mention an Australian writer with a degree who has
done anything worth reading?” Well, Bernard
O’Dowd, Arthur H. Adams, J. Le Gay Brereton,
Chris Brennan, Nettie Palmer. Enid Derham and J.
Alex. Allan. Only a random list, and doubtless there
are plenty of others who don’t sport their degrees
on their title-pages. It’s hard to know why “Ato"
should be so naively eager to prove that the Mel-
bourne Literary Club is entirely free from University
graduates, since three of the foregoing belong to the
Club, I believe, and the lecturer last month was F,
Sinelaire, M.A. (Oxon.) 1


iice
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Half-Yearly SALE
Finishes iSaturday, August 18, 1917.
Genuine Reductions in Every Department
CREWDSON'S INDIA LONGCLOTH.
375
426
427
668
366
298
195
159
66
91
43 pcs.
125 pcs.
96 pcs.
88 pcs.
34 pcs.
34 pcs.
50 doz
NEEDLE CASES.
Here are handy little Needle Cases that otter
value which cannot he repeated. The prices
quoted do not include for which
approximately 3d. extra must he added if
ordered singly.
Reduced
211 doz. Household Needle Cases. to
leatherette covered, containing
a good assortment of mixed
needles, etc. T'sual Price. 1/3
each -/lO
6 doz. Pictorial Celluloid Covers,
with old English scenes on front
cover, containing an assortment
of gold-eyed needles; good
quality. Usual Price, -/9 -II Vi
7 doz. Pictorial Celluloid Covers,
with old English scenes on front
cover, containing flannel leaves,
larger size. Usual Price, 1/9.. 1/6
3 doz. AVest End Needle Cases, con-
taining a good assortment of
mixed sewing, darning and fancy
work needles. T'sual Price, 1/3 1/-
1 doz. Day by Day Needle Cases,
containing assorted gold-eyed
needles. No. 4. Usual Price, l/<4 1/6
3 doz. Complete Needle Cases, con-
taining assorted gold-eyed
needles, and scissors, button-
hook, crochet needles, bodkin,
etc. Usual Pricg. 3/3 2/11
R doz. Real Morocco T,eat her Needle
Cases, nicely finished. No. 0276.
containing a tine assortment. of
gold-eyed needles. Usual Price,
2 doz. Real Leather Needle Cases,
containing a good assortment of
mixed needles. No. 0304. Usual
Price, 2/11 2/8
4 doz. Count the Cost Needle Cases,
leatherette covered, containing a
very large assortment of mixed
needles. Usual Price, 3/6 3/3
1 doz. Leather Needle Cases, con-
taining a very large assortment
of gold-eyed needles. No. 0306.
Usual Price, 4/- 3/D
2 doz. Leather Purse Needle Cases,
nickel catch, containing a good
assortment of-gold-eyed needles.
No. 01N1. Usual Price. 4/9 4/3
;V i Middle Stone
5 PI ei»I_LY,pRE PAR* ®
Anthony Horderns’ Universal Paint
Specially prepared to meet the demand for a Mixed Paint
ready for use, and one that is inexpensive yet wears
well.
The UNIVERSAL PAINT is put up in many shades,
and the large range of colors affords ample scope for
decorative work.
Offered during the sale at the following prices:
ORDINARY SHADES.
1 2 4 7 14 2811). tin.
WAR-TIME ECONOMY.
SALE TIME at the New Palace Emporium is a
shopping event with results that are far-reaching. In
this, the third year of the world-war, it is a fixture
that will’become memorable by reason of the countless
opportunities that are presented for war=time economies
in every-day necessities.
Prices are rising in every centre of manufacture. There
is a scarcity of skilled labor to handle the already short
supplies of raw materials ; the energies of the Nations are
concentrated on the production of munitions and war essen-
tials, and manufacture for export has become a minor con-
sideration. Still higher costs, therefore, are imminent.
Many of the lines enumerated in the Sale Catalogue
are now unobtainable-when our present stocks are
exhausted they cannot be replaced. In recent months exten-
sive purchases were effected, augmenting our already big
reserves, thereby enabling us to offer for
Anthony Horderns* 18 DAYS SALE
an immense colle&ion of Genuine Bargains that will
prove substantial money=savers. The advice of those
who study the markets is “ Buy now for future require-
ments.” We emphasise this point; it will very consider-
ably extend the purchasing power of all who wisely adl on
the suo-o-estion. Our reputation stands behind the statement
that the reductions set out in the Sale Catalogue are in
every case genuine. Write for a copy, posted free on
request.
Gliddens’ Liquid Cement (Coating)
FOR OUTDOORS
This Coating for Cement, Concrete, Stucco,
cement, incorporated with or carried in ™sp«
Its functions are to damp-proof and umfoi
stucco, brick, and stone, without destroying
nleasant decorative effect.
In the following shades: Pale Cream, I>
Stone Light Brick, Dark Brick. Brown and
1 Gal.
During' Sale, 12/-
Card fl’PO
or INDOORS.
Brick and Stone surfaces is a modified
•usion by a durable, water-resisting vehicle,
in the surface color of cement, concrete,
• the surface texture, and producing a
irk Grey, Light Grey, Mid Stone, Light
Buff.
4 Gal. 4«al.
6/3 3/6
on application.
LADIES’ HOSIERY.
ARTIFICIAL SILK HOSE.
Reduced
to
250 doz. Black, Lisle tops and soles.
Usual Price, 1/10 pair 1/8
000 doz. Black, Lisle tops and soles.
Usual Price, 2/- 1/10
SILK HOSE.
18 doz. White, Thread Silk, extra fine,
Lisle suspender tops and soles.
Usual Price, 5/3 4/0
10 doz. Plain Tan. Thread Silk, Lily
of France, Double Lisle Suspender
tops and soles. Usual Price, 0/3.. 3/11
36 doz. Plain Black or White, Thread
Silk, American Beauty, Double Lisle
suspender tops and soles Usual
Price, 7/9 7/-
12 doz. Plain White, Thread Silk.
Double Lisle suspender tops and
soles, extra wide legs. Usual
price, 6/11 ' 3/11
10 doz. Plain White, Thread Silk,
Lily of France, double Lisle sus-
pender tops and soles, extra wide
legs. Usual Price, 9/11 8/0
6 doz. Plain White, Thread Silk, Lily
of France, extra wide Lisle sus-
pender tops and double Lisle soles.
Usual Price. 10/3 0/3
12 doz. Plain White Thread Silk, Lily
of France, double Lisle suspender
tops and fine cashmere soles. Usual
Price. 7/9 7/-
6 doz. Plain White, Thread Silk, Lily
of France, double silk suspender
tops and cashmere soles. Usual
Price, 11/6 8/8
18 doz. Plain Black Thread Silk,
French manufacture, extra fine.
Usual Price, 8/11.: .7 ..... 7/11
LADIES’ COTTON HOSE.
160 doz. Plain Black or Tan, full fash-
ioned, I. and R. Morley’s double
soles. Usual Price, 1/11 pair -/II
189 doz. Plain Black, Tan or Navy, mer-
cerised ankle, seamless feet. Usual
price, 1/3 1/1
200 doz. Plain Black, heavyweight,
fleecy lined. Usual Price. 1/3... 1/1
170 doz. Plain Black, full fashioned,
extra fine, high spliced heels,
double soles. Usual Price. 2/-.. 1/9
55 doz. Plain Black, full fashioned,
high spliced heels, double soles.
Usual Price, 1/9 ..' 1/6
50 doz. Plain ; Black, full fashioned.
extra wide legs. Usual Price, 1/4 1/2
45 doz. Plain Black, full fashioned,
extra wide legs. Usual Price. 2/- 1/9
50 doz. Plain Black, I. and R. Mor-
ley’s, full fashioned, extra wide
tops. Usual Price, 2/3 1/11
60 doz. Black, medium rib, I. and R.
Morley’s. cashmere finish. Usual
Price, 1/5 1/3
80 doz. Black, medium rib, I. and R.
Morley’s. cashmere finish. Usual
Price, 2/- 1/10
50 doz. Black, full fashioned, high lace
ankles, double soles. Usual Price.
1/3 1/1
NATTY NECKWEAR.
320 COLORED SILK BOWS AND TIES.
Pretty and Effective Designs and Colors.
Usual Price -/104 1/- I/O eacli
Reduced to ... . -/ 6 -/6 -/O each
1150 WHITE MOSUN PIN-ON JABOTS.
Assorted Styles, trimmed Valenciennes; Lace
and Embroidered.
Usual Price, -/9, 1/- each. ■
Reduced to -/fij each
600 NET and GUIPURE LACE COLLARS
in White and Paris, various designs.
Usual Price 1/- I/O 1/11 2/3 2/(5 2/11 ea.
Reduced to -/9 1/3 1/8 1/11 2/3 3/0
459 IVORY JAP SILK ROLL COLLARS.
Effectively Embroidered shapes, suitable for
sewing into Blouses, etc.
Usual Price I/O 1/H V 3 2/6 2/Oeuch
Reduced to 1/- 1/- 1/3 I/O I/O ( >*< 1
INDIAN HAND-CROCHET NECKWEAR.
3 Indian Hand Crochet Coat Collars
and Cuffs. Usual Price, 13/6 set..
10 Indian Hand Crochet Circulai
Collars. Usual Price, 10/11 each.
4 Indian Hand Crochet Collar Fronts
Usual Price, 8/6 ••••••
7 Indian Hand Crochet Round Col
lars. Usual Price. 7/11
11 Indian Hand Crochet Blouse Sets
Collar and Cuffs. Usual Price, o/
14 Indian Hand Crochet Collars
Usual Price. 6/6
Reduced
to
10/-
8/0
0/11
0/0
4/11
4/11
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


’.it
.<1
.111
111
iiiiiiiliillllll
■■in
•32, .35, .351 and .401 Caliber
Self-Loading Rifles
When you look over your sights and see an
animal like this silhouetted against the back-
ground, you like to feel certain that your
equipment is equal to the occasion. It is, if
you are armed with a Winchester Self-
Loader. Not only does this rifle shoot
surely, strongly and accurately, but it gives
you a chance to get in a number of shots
in quick succession. It is the rifle of rifles
FOR ALL KINDS OF HUNTING
*5B
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
Fountain/Pen
THERE he goes, with a merry heart and
a springy step, glad to “ do his bit,”
confident in his fitness and prepared
to rough it with the best of ’em. But not
prepared to put up with the discomfort of
camp pens and “service” pencils. Oh
dear, no! he believes in a first-rate equip-
ment, so he arms himself with a
“Safety” type Waterman’s Ideal —the
perfect and ever-ready fountain pen.
Far away from home, it will be
his easy means of com-
munication with relatives and
friends left behind. What a
boon it will be to him !
Three types—
Regular, Safety, and Lever
Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers & Jewellers ever ywhere,
L. G. Sloan,
(Eortter,
London, England.
Aust alia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Cl rence St., Sydney. ’
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold m Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Rantlwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; °it is
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
Jet the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
V i V I v^T~v/~r\7T'vyTN?T* s y*rv
Vi
3 -
\
! V
,/n
I \ ; ?a
1 ' (
i / f
TTTTTTTnp
HUDSON SUPER-SIX has the World’s Endorsement
THE beauty of the Hudson Super-Six, its records nf .
company that builds it, all have earned for this co C / Standmg and reputation of the
Hudson has what men prize most—endurance. In all tests T SemCnt ° f a PP roval that ls world-wide. For
patented motor, has triumphed. Numbered among the 33 000 Super ' Six ’ with its
country where motor-cars are used you will find a Hudson Dealer. ’ predommate - Ijl evel T
Hudson Motor Cor Colony- Largost ma*er, of «„e car, ( „ e „or ld .
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan USA
Cclb,e Address : HUDSONCAR-DETROIT.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., Elizabeth. Street, Brisbane
Lane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street
W. Johnson Co i H Adelaide.
Tasmanian
Motor S
ervice. Hobart.


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
«BSj e wiiTlstSS 1
m §i|g
Kidney&BladderPills
I These Pills also act on the h ver.
L HOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE A
&e-.
WmMmmaA? Q N.P °
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with ' rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —-guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
•To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why I)e Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidneys Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Did It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process,
.made the following statement: “Any lady
or gentleman can darken their grey or faded
hair, stimulate its growth and make it soft
and glossy with this simple recipe, which
they can mix at home. To a half-pint of water
add loz. of bay rum and 1 small bo*, of
Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be purchased at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair every other day
until the grey hair is darkened sufficiently.
This mixture relieves itching and is excel-
lent for dandruff. It does not stain the
scalp, is not sticky or greasy and does not
rub off. It tvill make a grey-haired person
loot 1 0 to ?0 vpnrs vnnnwr” —Aovt. |"3
vDlVtv iiiXlX'z- Tell tflv?
AdvsiicXxiQf |
'RcsK'Tt? ijc|uv
&£ur u?i*i
m
f
mm
mm s
or B. Aux|p
WAiHiT
mi
WA
ii
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
When Your Child’s Throat is Sore!
That’s a “ danger sign ” ! It tells you of deadly germs attacking the
tender respiratory organs. Once let them get
down into the bronchial tubes or lungs, then
the dread croup or perhaps pneumonia may
endanger life. At the first indication
give Bonnington’s Irish Moss! The
thing is to get this magnificent remedy
right to the spot at once!
Prized by Mothers for then Children lor Whoop-
ing Cough, Croup, or any throat weakness. Be
sure it s Bonnington's. Iwo Sizes, 1/6 and 2/6
r
JOKNIKCIOn
CkR»tC(M
RISHMOS
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes
“It gives me great pleasure-to inform you that 1
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in the
week. It is now 12 months since I last used tobacco,
and, although I am continually in the company of
smokers, I do not have the least desire to smoke;
therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as Irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only
remembered Ss a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will
give me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
irestone
Tvres
t
rrr
TSS
ty
i
>• l\.
« »
%
A
S 3
r-
sfe
RIDING like the wind on risky turns, still
you are safe with Firestone Non-Skid
Red and Black Tyres. The tread holds and
the whole tyre wears long and well be-
cause Firestone building is right. Let us
equip your car today for safety, comfort and saving.
Grirmey, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages. Write for Illustrated Literature.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
August.
August holds a garden-fair underneath the
saplings '
Lifting bronzy leafage to the rain-washed sky,
Lifts it in the clearing that is dewy,
beautiful.
But only with fairy money can you hope to
buy.
Much there is of wattle-bloom, white and
cream and golden,
Hung like drops of crystal dew on every
vivid tree.
Snow-bush and buttercup, gold-glazed, tender.
Starry in the sunlight for you and me to see.
Orchids at the creek’s edge, pink and green
and purple.
Curved in queer fantastic shapes to lit such
elfish things—
Spider-blossoms in the wind, pigeon-berry,
jasmine,
And early peat-brown butterflies with rain-
drops on their wings.
Hear the music ringing while you and I are
fairing!
Listen to the lyre-birds flood the gully’s hush !
Bees are in the white-beard, tomtits and
blackcaps,
And honey-birds a-chattering in the banksia
bush.
August’s fair -is open, girl, underneath the
saplings;
Wattle blooming golden ’neath a rain-washed
sky ;
Dew T along the creek’s edge, and fairies, love,
and butterflies,
And nobody in all the world but you and I.
N.S.W.
CHARLES FIRTHPETTINGER.
His Own Home.
Dense and very still are the bushes in the
gully,
Green gums, lean gums grow to meet the
sky ;
Through a distant hill-gap a river glistens
dully,
Outback, far back, where the grey geese fly.
Broken are the sliprails that guard the
silent clearing;
Rank weeds, dank weeds choke the narrow
track ;
Never sign of tame beast, but only wild
things, fearing—
Bright eyes, cunning eyes peeking at your
back.
Open swings the door of the shanty on the
rising,
Red ferns, dead ferns carpet all the earth ;
Idle is the chimney of patient hands’
devising,
Long cold, stone cold lies the blackened
hearth.
Ah, but there is one it must ever hold a
thought for,
Youth’s eyes, truth’s eyes look beyond the
throng;
Never thing we prize like the thing we
gladly wrought for,
Old days, gold days when the heart was
strong.
Somewhere overseas he is fighting now to
free it.
Self-taught, self-brought to share the
common loss ;
Wond’ring in. his young heart if ever more
he’ll see it —
This old home, his own home beneath the
Southern Cross.
VICTORIA.
BERNARD CRONIN.
A Song of Static Progress.
The kingdoms shall falter and fall,
The thrones totter down to the dust;
And the pageant has end in a pall,
While the steel that was strength is but
rust.
Yet manhood walks proudly and strong,
For the old things are lost in the new
And right on the proud neck of wrong
Sets its boot for creation to view.
But a man and woman there still shall he
While a thin moon shines on an ebbing sea;
And a man and woman and devil make three
,From Manly Beach to eternity.
The doors open wide to the dawn.
Fair winds of new feeling a-sweep
Shall scatter the leaves on the lawn
And ruffle the plumes of the deep.
Oh. clean shall we be of the curse
To the height of the people’s desire,
With a nobler ambition to nurse
Till it grows to full stature of fire.
But a boy shall find in the new day's sheen
A red-lipped girl with a kiss between;
And the Devil shall be as the Devil has been
When the fruit is ripe and the bough is
green.
In justice high laws shall we frame
For the years of the promise to come,
When the world-nation known by no name
Forgets the last throb of the drum,
When over the wrecks of the old
New peace has her trophies to rear,
And the age of our dreamings of gold
Through long vistas of joy shall appear.
But a man and a woman and Devil shall be,
Blow hot, blow cold, as the primal three;
And the peach on the last forbidden tree
Shall be Heaven and Hell to eternity.
n.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


RENCTH
/
r
4/
(
:
PERDRIAU Strength
STRENGTH OF REPUTATION,
built up by over a quarter-century’s
service-giving trading.
STRENGTH OF RESISTANCE.
The quality of the matured rubber,
the design of the three broad flat
Ribs overlaying absolutely the finest-
g-rade fabric, and the perfect adhesion
between these two give a Resistance
to road shocks which is proved by
regular Record Mileages.
STRENGTH OF PURPOSE.
Perdriau Tyres will always be on the
improve, for the reason that every-day
experiments are carried out to make
PERDRIAU TYRES better and even
better.
The sooner you start using Perdriaus
the longer you’ll use them.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd,
ALL STATES.
G
■John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled inf or-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
vv*
v
Up Hill, Down Dale,
in Motor-car
This jolly party goes. On “high” they tiavel very far. two
maidens and their beaus.
On! On! Till noon they spin; then pause awhile, you see; not
at the nearest wayside inn, but underneath a tree.
Out come the cakes and biscuits, while each boy works off a
wheeze, and one displays, with knowing smile, a tin of—
REX BRAND CHEESE
“Hooray!” cries Jack, “this is the life: hand me the loaf of
bread; I’ll make a sandwich; where’s the knife?” Said
Tom, “Go right ahead.”
“Cut one for me; I, too, like Cheese, though Cheese does not
like me. But ‘Bex’ is ripe, so be at ease, and eat, my
friend, care-free.”
With quip and jest, they soon devour the Cheese and rest a
space; then, having spent a pleasant hour, the car they
homeward face.
This last reminder must be sung of
tasty
“REX” CAMP PIE
’Tis made of meat—the choicest bits.
Just buy a tin and try.
Fog'g'itt, Jones &, Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex’* Hams and Bacon;
PacKers of “Rex’* Pore Food Produces.
Germs Banished
The ABBOT FILTER
Gives Absolutely Pure Water.
YOU INSURE YOUR LIFE
WHY NOT INSURE YOUR HEALTH?
Secure the Safety of Your Quests and Family.
Write for Illustrated Folder to the Manufacturers
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
(f
B)
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
UNIVERSAL CONFIDENCE inthe NAME
The power plant of Dodge Brothers Car is of the
unit type—with three-point suspension. The engine,
clutch and transmission form a single compact unit.
A definite feeling of confidence in the name—Dodge
Brothers—existing almost everywhere, is the very
strongest assurance you could have that the Car will
always conform to the highest possible standards.
Its economy is now almost a proverb. Quietly the
knowledge has spread, and thoroughly, into every nook
and corner of the country.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol- 38. —No. 1955.
THURSDAY. AUGUST 2, 1917.
Price Qd.
“WHAT ABOUT IT NOW, MATE?”
An Ottawa message says that the third reading of the Conscription Bill wa s carried in the Lower House of Canada by a majority of 58 vote.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for tlie White Man.”
'Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRI I!EUS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you, every week Jor a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
:nn um.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be ero-sed. and
•ill Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright i-y the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the ‘‘Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian snbiects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 6000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable NC. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When .l/.S. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted fur direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/41 Hastings Street,
Vancoui er, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal. : Queen
City Netrs Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnaee Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Cey’lon. — lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (.registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; S loz. to 10oz., 2id. :
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1917.
THE MUSEUM AND THE SUNRISE.
The sunrise is at once the newest of all
phenomena and the oldest; and the habit of
looking at the past in the light of the present
is as fatal as the wisdom of seeing the pre-
sent in the light of the past is pressing and
necessary. To know what was done before,
where the world failed, where a people
succeeded, where a course which seemed fair
ended on the rocks of disaster, where and
why democracy was swallowed in autocracy
or won through to a better place, to grip the
lessons of physical defeat as they dovetail
into moral triumph—all this is of tremendous
value for the interpretation of our own age.
But to contemplate the past merely as a
spectacle, to weave into it imaginings that
only the present could produce, and to con-
clude that the world’s hopes are limited by
an imitation of its achievements is to put an
extinguisher on the morning in the belief
that no new day can be ours unless tve can
somehow drag the sun back out of its setting.
In point of fact, the world’s mind is suffer-
ing from a belief that the whole sum of
things is a vast museum in which to-day
stands merely as an exhibit beside yesterday
and the day before; and the cure lies in
rising enthusiastically to the sure knowledge
that the sunrise is nett:, and that the world
begins afresh every morning.
In the islands of the Aegean and the
ragged bottom corner of Europe, where the
sea had bitten into the mountains, leaving a
sparse domain for goats courage and : ’’t<4-
leot, there lived a people of great achieve-
ment, cultured, resourceful workers in fine
arts and fairly advanced in the science of
government. Suddenly over the whole of
their civilisation swept something red and
disastrous, known to history as the Dorian
invasion. So calamitous was it that the
whole story of all that went before emerged
from the ruins in the form of fancy-embroid-
ered myth, and the sure knowledge that there
was anything before it except primitive
savagei y has only been nlaced on the museum
-helves within the last half-century or so.
But out of the wreck came a sunrise—a sun-
rise that fired the new Greek soul. Because
it saw the past as an entertainment, the
future as a splendid hope, and the present a
really live thing, Greece for a few centuries
was the brightest and best force the old
world knew. Then it shifted its eyes to the
hack of its head, looked for the dawning in
the west, and became an exhibit of the
museum merely, when it wasn’t a doormat
for the strong and obscene. Nobody can ever
understand the fine impulse that made Greece
what it was without first grasping the Greek
attitude of mind. It was the forward look,
the readiness to accept brand-new ideas, the
belief that the present could be better than
the past, and the fixed faith that if the son
couldn’t do more at the business of living
than his father he was a tragedy, that
accounted for the most promising sprint ever
made by any race of men towards super-
manhood. And this same Greek outlook has
been more or less in evidence every time
there has been a forward movement any-
where on the planet. Thinking in terms of
the museum has invariably led to stagnation
and death ; thinking in terms of the sunrise
upon an ever-new world has always meant a
movement of some value to the race. When
Babylon was falling before the Persian its
king was digging in the ruins of ancient
cities for the relics of ancient kings; when
Rome was falling to pieces the Young Men’s
Pagan Society was debating with antiquarian
zeal the vexed topic of the chastity of
Helen ; when the knife of the Revolution
was itching for the necks of French aristo-
crats those aristocrats were trying between
drinks to improve a pedigree that linked
them with some rude brigand who crossed the
Rhine with the early Frankish invaders. But
when Magna Charta was signed or Colum-
bus crossed the western ocean, or the stone
strength of the Bastille yielded to the human
strength of a desperate hope, the look was
wholly to the sunrise, and the new day, was
all that counted.
* * * *
The war of nations has broken up the
whole past in a manner so thoroughgoing
that the museum of deeds is all lopsided.
Marathon, Plata i a and Salamis fill a small
glass-case in a remote wing of the building.
The dust of two dozen English kuigs is in a
gilded pepper-pot on a shelf near the side
door. The whole Reformation, with its
arguments and blood and dreary Sundays,
has been removed to a seldom-visited garret.
Napoleon, Alexander and Julius (Cesar
have only a railed space four feet square for
their entire exhibits of ambition, triumph
and achievement. Nine-tenths of the vast
museum building is occupied with the war
which began in August. 1914 ; and before the
guns cool new accommodation will be re-
quired for the further tremendous facts
which must develop under the pressure of
steel and fire. In other words, the history of
the world was a prelude played on reedy
pipes from the days of the anthropoid Adam
to those of the apologetic Asquitii, followed
by the real play of Man. which has occupied
three bitter and tremendous years. In the
general wreckage of all that existed before
the Kaiser went blood-mad are the political
schemes, systems and ideas which had piti-
fully repeated themselves in the name of
democracy. The old fighting grounds have
been blown away by bursting shells. The
shibboleths of the past are utterly without
meaning. When over the darkness of the
war-cloud the “ Fiat Li/*” from the eternal
heart of things is heard once more, the world
will be practically a new creation, and the
six days of its re-making will be fraught
with tremendous possibilities.
Australia, far from the centres of carnage,
should instinctively look for the new thing.
Indeed. Australia, far from the centres of
ancient political life, should have looked for
the new thing half a century ago. But our
alleged statesmen, blinded by a sunrise
fairer and sweeter than any that had broken
over the old lands, rushed us immediately to
the museum shelves. Because of that ex-
ceeding brightness they placed us among the
ancient exhibits in order that the memorials
of antique government might tone our pro-
spects down to the sobriety they deemed fit-
ting. They loaded us with parliaments -
devices which were second-hand in the days
of Henry 111. of England; they even
brought the Speaker and the mace along, as
if the mace had been a popular weapon of
defence in our wars with the bushrangers or
the Rocks push. If a man among us seemed
to swell more appreciably than his fellows
they made him a knight, as if his puffy
rotundity longed to wear armor and sit on a
charging draught-horse. But it was in poli-
tical ideas that they tied us most: for their
fixed notion was that no new thing could
arise, and that the game of politics con-
sisted in ringing the changes on the forlorn
hopes of the past. Now the futility of it all
is apparent, and the war is banging the
doors violently on all the lost days. The sun-
rise is ours if we are prepared to take the
vast new gift out of the hand of time. New
policies, new systems, new thought, new
activity—these alone can save us. In the
museum corridors of the war we have some
splendid Australian exhibits : but in the sun-
rise of peace there is still a continent to
conquer. You can’t do yesterday’s job over
again ; but the day’s work has a fine call to
intelligent patriotism. There must still b°
curators of the museum, and the student will
find a lot to interest and suggest the new
thing on the numerous shelves: hut we can’t
afford to mistake a stuffed lion's tufted
tail for a torch of liberty. Yet the sunrise
is very brirht as it flashes on the Iona: sea-
arm. and it is surely inconceivable that a
few win-tlie-war politicians can get that into
a glass-case.
HOW ABOUT HOISTING UP THE
CURTAIN?
We ought to get down to bedrock about this
war business. Here is the Government
appealing for a certain number of recruits.
It is not getting them. No one seriously
expected anything else. Yet here also is the
Director-General of Recruiting publicly re-
marking that the peonle who talk about com-
pulsory service ought to shut up. He"
regards their talk ns “childish." There is
the further spectacle of a Government in
office for 'lv express purpose of Winning
the War. In addition, there is the war
itself. Now, how is it going.
only information the Australian people g
is the story in the papers. This tliej ™a>
interpret according to individual choice. Im-
Government is as dumb as a gohanna a ' iai
the struggle in its general and particuiai
aspects, about the fluctuating fortunes ot
the Allies and the enemy, the prospects,
hopes and dangers. Nothing quite so fan-
tastic as that Australians would become
embroiled in a war 10,000 miles away and
hear no more from their Government about
its progress than if the proceedings were going
on in the next century could have been
dreamed by the wildest visionary. I a
Ministry to merely jump up and proclaim
that so many men have been killed or
wounded, to call upon another nnmbei to
come forward and arm themselves, and then
leave the matter hanging precariously in an
atmosphere of ignorance surrounded by doubt,
and uncertainty, is irreconcilable with any
serious comprehension of Ministerial respon-
sibility. This is Australia’s war. The
German made it so. The people of the
Commonwealth are vitally concerned about
it. The question of enlistment turns not
upon the relative merit of party yelps and
howls here, but on the progress of a struggle
that will determine everything. Yet how often
have the populace heard from the Govern-
ment a plain statement of the facts relating
to the war—of the brutal truth which alone
can make the nation see its dangers? Not
once! A cataract of whirl big words about
what may happen if something else occurs
is no substitute for a clear statement of
what is actually taking place. Fervid ex-
hortations to men to “recognise the posi-
tion’’ or “do their duty” are poor stuff
without particulars of what the position call-
ing for recognition may be.
* « # •
The position may be such that cargoes of
food are more useful than a few shiploads of
men. If this is so. then the Director-General's
reference to the chi!d : shness of talk about
compulsory service would be understandable.
If it is not so. then it seems a fair tiling to
ask whether it is not childish to piffle round
with half the number of men declared to be
necessary, instead of getting to ho’ts with a
definite plan for acquiring the full comple-
ment. What are the facts? The Bulletin
appeals to the Federal Parliament to remem-
ber that, after all. it is an Australian insti-
tution—that the nation is up to its neck in
a war that has set the whole world a-flame,
and that the people of the Commonwealth are
be : ng treated with something far less than
fairness. It is indecent to go fumbling on
in this way, with a Government side-step-
ping its responsibilities and blithering about
its patriotism, leaving public opinion about
the war’s nrogress to be determined by what
newspapers happen to remark, the whole
scope of the nation’s activities being decided
by chance. Either the Government knows
something about the nosition at the Front or
it does not. It ought to. anyhow. And it
ought to know quite a lot about the problem
of transport and to what extent Australia’s
participation is now a factor in determining
the war’s conclusion. These are matters
Parliament should insist on hearing about.
It is no good yelling about last men and
final shillings. That sort of thing leads
nowhere. What Australia wants is informa-
tion about the military position in Europe,
about the capacity of transport services and
whether the Commonwealth Government’s
policy of doing somthing to win the war after
a great disaster has occurred is in any way
affected by the volume of recruiting in the
meantime. With this information a bewil-
dered people might be able to get the hang
of their affairs. At present they are only
in possession of a vast stock of misappre-
hension.
AS IT IS IN CHTNA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
General Chang Hsun. for a few brief
weeks Dictator of China and chief figure in
the latest revolution, began his career as
coachman to an Englishman in Tientsin.
That strident outpost of European culture
taught him a great deal of the secret of West-
ern greatness: so much that, an illiterate
coolie in a land where learning is the only
key to unlock the door of promotion, he yet
rose to the highest position in Chinese poli-
tics. Ignorant of both the academic and the
modern arts of Chinese warfare—the one
requiring a knowledge of archerv and of a
military text-book 2000 years old': the other
the operating of strategic railways. Oin.
guns and aeroplanes—he succeeded by craft
and intrigue in obtaining a commission under
the Empress-Dowager. Once in possession
of a military following, his personality stood
him in good stead. The bewildering changes
of Chinese politics, the revulsions from
autocracy to republicanism and back to
autocracy rebellions and counter-rebellions
—a l found him securely entrenched in some
waued city surrounded by a loyal rabble of
followers, ready to come out on the safest
side, for a consideration.
At the time that I metCBANGHsuN in 191 1
his personal army had increased to 20 000 as
truculent and unkempt a gang of desperadoes
as ever fought out of comic-opera. The re-
bellion of that year had been countered bv
\uan Sum-KAi with remarkable energv and
decision, and after three months of sporadic
death and destruction, most of which fell on
innocent non-combatants, the remnants of
the rebel army had retreated behind the mas-
sive walls of Nanking. Chang Hsun was
sent to root them out. N
Nanking has two forts, mounting guns of
the heaviest calibre, and for the first time
in his military career Chang Hsun had to’
handie and contend with the weapons of
modern warfare. I had the privK of
seeing something of how he did it Ar,- r
pamon and I had succeeded in getting
as Chm-Iviang, 45 miles from Nankfng but
there our way was barred bv a dirtv se -
wn nr and a dirtier platoon of rw,
Tlsun's army. Thev wore glazed hlJi- i . 0
cocked sideways, immense fat queues— a swn
of their contempt for the Republic they
served—ragged blue uniforms ana cloth
slippers. Several of them, in addition to
cartridge-belts and pouches crammed with
ammunition, carried fans and pet singing
birds in cages. They were, when we met
them, engaged in the congenial task of rifling
the baggage of frightened refugees escaping
from the city. Being northern troops, these
southerners were as foreign to them as our-
selves. A boxful of silver dollars was re-
vealed by the light of a lantern to the hungry
eyes of the soldiery. It was an opportune
moment. A bribe to the native station-
master obtained a carriage, which, with lights
out. was attached for us to a waiting troop
train. In this fashion, in complete dark-
ness and silence, we passed through Chang
Hsun's sleeping army into extramural Nan-
king 1
The journey was sufficiently uncanny. Our
carriage excited the curiosity of wayside
guards, who attempted to pierce its gloom
with lanterns. But the element of fatalism
and the lack of responsibility operated in our
favor, and we reached the shattered railway
station of Nanking without mishap. The
foreign quarter had ceased to exist. A tot-
tering sign was all that was left of the hotel
where we had proposed to stay. An incredi-
ble multitude of starving dogs swayed round
the circle of light cast by our lantern, going
off occasionally to worry a corpse lying
amongst the ruins. A half-naked creature,
uncertainly human, squatted in the lee of a
gutted restaurant, burning the hair off a dog
he had captured. We passed through a vil-
lage, murmurous with humanity, where beg-
gars and prostitutes and one-time wealthy
merchants had built themselves dwellings out
of the rubbish and wreckage of the city.
Further on. where the dim black tide of the
Yangtsze could he heard flowing past, we
found a European house pitted with shell-
holes.
The victorious assault of Chang Hsun’s
men was made that night. For three weeks
he had been throwing Krupp’s old iron
haphazard into tin* city, and every morning,
true to Chinese tradition, he had made an
advance, according to a schedule as well
known to the rebels as to himself, against
the Taiping Men, one of the gates of the
Great Wall. The graves of his soldiers were
scattered all over the countryside, and the
city wall was stuck full of mis-timed shells,
like pins in a cushion. He had played
ducks and drakes with the finest railway in
China. On one occasion two trains crammed
with troops stood, one on the main line and one
on a sding, when a rebel shell burst over-
head. The panic-stricken soldiers clambered
on to the engines, compelling the drivers at
the point of the bayonet to race each other
for the straight. The contest was a thrilling
one, resulting in the meeting and disintegra-
tion of both trains and the immolation of
much Celestial cannon-fodder.
At the end of three weeks the bankruptcy
of General Chang’s strategy was evident.
The majority of the rebels were escaping by
the back door, while the front gate w T as being
held against the flower of the Republican
army by a handful of men armed with
machine-guns and field-artillery. So the
besiegers, resorting to classical methods,
placed ladders against the wall, and. climb-
ing over unopposed, proceeded at midnight
to the Taiping Men ! There, where a few
hours ago had been the riot of bursting shells
and tumbling masonry, they found nothing
but silence, an itinerant vendor of water-
melon seeds and a few dumb guns guarding
a deserted gateway.
Chang llsun. in accordance with Oriental
precedent, remained outside after the cap-
ture. giving Nanking over to his troops for
the traditional three days of looting. For 72
hours rape and bloody murder walked the
streets, while the victorious army worked
like navvies to strip the city. Amidst
the unclean riot we saw the members of the
Red Ten. the Chinese branch of the Inter-
national Red Cross, quietly at work succor-
ing the victims of mediaeval barbarism. True
to his character as a brigand chief, at the
end of the stipulated period Chang Hsun
re-established his authority, and the execu-
tioner. with his two-handed sword, stalked
through the crowd. Before order was re-
stored upwards of 100 heads of his own
soldiers adorned the gateways and grinned
from the doorposts of the ruined city !
Firmly established inside the city, and sur-
rounded by a loyal army glutted with the
loot of a province, Chang llsun resorted to
his favorite strategy. ITe held, his big guns
to the head of the Central ' Government,
which promptly disgorged SOO.OOOdoI. and a
Military Commissionership, with the con-
job of hunting down other pirates on
the Yangtsze. Since then the squat little
man with his lowering black glance, his fan
and his sloppy blue jacket and pants has
been a factor always to be reckoned with in
Chinese politics.
* * * *
Returning from Nanking, which has seen
™ ar >y revolutions, we passed through a
landscape whose serene beauty contrasted
strangely with the desolation we had left.
'. vast \ ley el green garden stretched on
either side. You missed the roads. There
were none; their place was taken by the
countless waterways along which the im-
Iv )f?. se ’ bat-winged sails of barges were
g uung. Along the edge of every field were
intle cone-shaped pavilions thatched with
straw - Under each a buffalo, blindfolded
W u- u roun< * an d round, turning a wheel
v Inch pumped water into the fields. A row
ot men, women and children, with arms
aised above their heads, moved their-legs
111 a? endless dance, turning a waterwheel of
another type. Village after village, bluey-
-- ! I n 7, a y huddled together in the isola-
.loll of the fields, swept past the train. Sud-
' 1 n Shmpses we got of the busy activity of
a crammed canal, spanned with the most
j shapes of camel-backed bridges,
j minds of earth and tiny tile roofed mauso
< contained the centuries of village dead.
» n . Ups of c °hins lying here and there
il!! te • D - nnspicions day for burial. Once,
i • \ In Us look of tremendous age. the
, a ground of some forgotten family
surr punded by strange granite
s ? r <Hiped in stony sadness gazing oti
hundred revolutions had not
am led the aspect of that countryside.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
War-Time Profits and a Bone.
Ix September of last year it was estimated
by W. G lliggs, then Treasurer, that on a
profit standard of 6 aid 7 per cent, the
appropriation of half the surplus as a. war-
time profit tax would for 1915-16 yield the
Commonwealth £1,000,000; further, that by
taking all profit over 7 and 8 per cent, in
1916-17. £2,000,000 would be available
towards paying the war bill, and he thought
£3,000.000 might come from the same source
in this current year, 1917-18. The actual
revenue has, of course, been od., because no
tax was levied in this form. After the dis-
ruption of the Labor party a couple of weeks
later, Poynton became Treasurer, and he,
too, presently made a statement. By that
date war-time profits had been found to taste
just as sweet .as any other profits, and people
poured in reasons why this, that and the
other excess should not be touched. So
Boynton put forward a new estimate . of
revenue likely to be obtained from taxation
of war-time profits, limiting the impost to
50 per cent, for the first year and 75 per
cent, for the second year. The estimate then
arrived at was £400.660 and £1,100,000
thereafter. But still no legislation was
passed. Now John Fokhest comes for-
ward with a scheme for securing revenue by
the same tax, and the most noticeable thing
about it is that, while Boynton’s idea was
to get only half the income contemplated by
lliggs, Big.toiin doesn't expect much more
than half of what Boynton reckoned on.
ile looks for only £906.000 for the two years.
And he may be lucky to get that much, because
most of the excess profits which have been
made will escape. The datum line is drawn
at either («) average profits earned during
three pre-war years; or ( It) 10 per cent., if
the average profits have been less than 10
per cent. The profits tax will not operate on a
business which had been making 50. or 100
per cent, prior to the war, unless since the
war it made ipore, nor on one which
made less than 10 per cent, before the war or
after. Thus Bunk and Go., who had been
making a profit of £50,000 a year mi imported
perfumes, may have turned their attention
to another branch of business and made a
similar profit of 50 per cent, on their capital.
W hether this came directly out of the war or
not would make no difference. No war time
tax for them! Similarly with Jlxk and
<’u. If they had kept their capital well up
to the value of their net assets and were get-
ting; along quite nicely on 0 per cent, before
the war. hut happened to find a war market
which increased their profit by one-half, the
war-time tax would matter nothing. Then
there are all sorts of exemptions—dairying,
agriculture, personal-exertion occupations,
life insurance companies, certain forms of
the pastoral business and so on. Appar-
ently the person with the least chance of
escape is the Australian manufacturer. And
in the absence of a Protective tariff he has
about the strongest claim to consideration,
because he can have no confidence that his
capital expenditure on plant, etc., will be
worth anything to him when ocean trade
becomes normal again. Altogether it is a
grave misfortune that the measure was not
passed two years ago. At that time people
knew instinctively that the nation and not
the individual was entitled to war earnings;
and had Parliament then done its duty there
would have been no difficulty in appropriat-
ing the bulk of those profits, as Britain has
been doing. But syndicates and adventurers
have got in their fine work meantime; and
this Bill is merely a bone thrown to the
public to keep it quiet.
Our Chance of Getting Licked.
There seems to be a fairly good chance that
when the war ends England, France and
America may be victorious while Australia
comes out licked. Victory in such a tumult
docs not mean that your name is in a list of
winners or that you have been able to send
a representative to some council which has
dictated the terms of peace. Victory should
mean that your national ideals have been
upheld, that your nationhood has been
strengthened and that the future opens up
better and finer prospects for you because
of the part that you have borne in the war.
If it does not turn out like this you are
licked, even though the enemy should be
thrashed to a standstill. And the appear-
ance of Australia after three years of fight-
ing and talking and hope does not look in
the least promising. Everywhere there
appears to be not only confusion in action
but confusion of ideas and intentions; add
if we go on winning the war for another
year or two in the way we are doing now.
there can be nothing before us but an exceed-
ingly ugly and uncomfortable smash. The
remark made in this paper any number of
years ago that the w r ars of the future must
be fought out in the workshops long before
hostilities were declared has passed through
bitter experience into a mere truism ; but it
is just as true that the peace of the future
must be worked out in the years of war, or
there may be experiences of a still more
hitter sort. At the close of the present fight-
ing there will be an immense number of men
to repatriate, and close on the heels of these
an inflow of immigration at least equal to
our whole present population may reason-
ably be expected in the 20 years following.
Yet, judging by the constant complaint of
returned men, our political machinery
has failed lamentable in repatriating the few
thousands who have already come back—in
great part, without a doubt, because politi-
cians have been trying to outbid one another
in promises to Blt.l.tim ; in promises of
utterly impossible things. The most active
force against recruiting is the returned man
with a grievance, and we have been manu-
facturing grievances along with these ex-
travagant promises. Many countries of the
world are hot with the revolutionary spirit;
but that does not seem an adequate reason
for provoking trouble. The I.WAV. and other
organisations may he less dangerous than
they appear; but the anger of a people is a
different proposition. If enough people can
be made angry there will be serious trouble;
and a very large number of people are angry
already in this country. If a smash does
come and the large, flabby hand of govern-
ment-by-jaw tries to hold down the lid of
the hell it has lit, the fact that Germany is
knocked out will not save us from the bitter
knowledge that w r e have been licked. The
war must be won all along the line to make
peace secure: and Australia is as much a
part of the line as the trenches that cross
Flanders.
Right and Wrong in War.
The settled idea that we are bound to win
the war because we are on the right side and
certain great moral forces are fighting for us
needs a deal of qualification. It is one of the
delightful aphorisms of the ages that right
conquers might. But history does not prove
it. What history does prove is that might
generally contrived to get itself regarded as
right by the time it had fought through to a
finish. Also, right and wrong depend far
more than is generally admitted on the point
of view. The Roman invasion of Britain was
desperately bad business from the point of
view of the British chief Caradoc—the
Romans called him Caractacus, and his
relatives-in the West of England to-day are
known as Craddock But when a century
had gone by. the might of Rome had been
turned into right by the decent treatment of
the conquered. Again, Napoleon, cursed
and abused in the name of hereditary mon-
archy, was unquestionably right as far as
nine-tenths of his ambition soared; yet he
was hammered down and back, and the old
evil things he would have swept away were
restored amid the triumphal music that pro-
claimed the victory of the good and true.
The whole world-story is full of such cases :
and the mere assertion that we are right
counts for nothing without a backing of
powder and shot. Moreover, in a war like the
present the cause of battle largely shifts as the
strife goes on. Somebody began this trouble
because a big-hat was murdered in Bosnia :
the next week the fighting was on account of
the invasion of Belgium ; the chief cause now
st ems to be the sinking of unarmed merchant-
men. At any rate, more people are in the
war on that account than on any other.
Before the last shot is fired the cause might
easily be the refusal of the Allies to hand
back' the German colonies, or the insistence of
the partial victors on the hanging of the
Kaiser before peace is considered. The fact
seems to be that war itself, though in many
cases inevitable, is so utterly and damnably
wrong from any ethical point of view that as
it progresses it is perpetually making new
wrongs which are apt to toss right from side
to side as easily as death is tossed by the
big howitzers. Certainly, if Britain and
France could be defeated, their cause would
stand in the eyes of the future world, born
and nursed in the systems which would
evolve from Teuton victory, as a cause lost
because it, was morally unsound ; for any-
thing is morally unsound once force takes
the place of reason which can’t win. So the
notion that the angels are necessarily on our
side goes out with a loud explosion. They
may be there: but they will only stay so long
as we keep the shells flying.
Another National Party Waves the Flag
of Reform.
There are at. least 175 problems and conun-
drums of great national significance before
the Australian people to-day. They range
from merely keeping an army reinforced to
getting sober—from exterminating mice to
building ships and protecting Canberra from
white ants. But a new party or movement,
calling itself the Australian Democratic
Reform Association, which lately burst into
existence in Sydney, is not concerned about
trifles of that sort. It wants to get right
down to bedrock at once and do the tilings
which must be done unless our democracy is
to perish or disappear up the pole. Yet,
though the programme of the Association
is a document capable of infinite expansion,
it looks as if someone had forgotten that
platforms built without legs are liable to
fall in a heap. This, in effect, is what the
Association wants, to start with, anyway:—
A system under which every person, company or
Government wishing to discharge an employee shall
apply for permission from the Registrar to do so.
When permission to give the sack has been
obtained, the person so sacked shall have delivered
weekly at his or her home an out-of-work wage.
If the registrar considers, the pei'son should not
be dismissed he shall place the matter before a Court,
which may refuse to permit the boss to give him the
sack.
Everyone shall get in each year 15 consecutive
days’ holiday on full pay; also a free railway pass,
and have the option of occupying for 15 days rent
free a furnished flat at a pleasure resort.
People drawing out-of-work pay to have free hoard
and lodging at health sanitoria in country districts.
Men having families bigger than their wages to be
subsidised by the Government.
All persons reaching the age of 60 years to retire
on an income to be furnished by the State.
Only fruit, confectionery and drink shops to be
permitted to open on Saturdays or Sundays.
People drawing retirement incomes to be boarded
at nominal charges in model flats having every com-
fort. Hot and cold baths.
Homes to be constructed by the Government for
workers, who will refund the cost as soon as possible.
Government sale of produce for the purpose of get-
ting the producer the highest possible price. Likewise
for the sale of butter, meat, etc., at low prices.
Some finicking people might think that men-
tion might to he made of where the money
is to come from. Still, as Senator Millen
says, the march of democracy and reform is
not to be interrupted by sordid considera-
tions of liow things are going to he done.
The great thing is to raise a comprehensive
cry announcing that they must be done with-
out delay. Then if nothing happens the
obvious course to follow is to pass 14 resolu-
tions expressive of disgust, and decide to
stop work until every democrat gets a fair
deal. So if anyone who is not attached to
a junta or the I.WAV. wants a place to
stand and save his country by frantically
waving his arms, he can come under the
banner of the Democratic Reform Associa-
tion and get busy.
Britain naturally turns her eyes more and
more from Australia and more and more
towards America. Both men and food are
over there ; and the ship that will bring one
load from Australia will carry three at least
from the U.S.A. A big fleet which came
this way until lately is therefore going to
N’York now. As the submarines take their
toll, and it becomes more and more necessary
to look to the nearest friendly port, it means
almost isolation for Australia. Wool, wheat,
metals and batter are already piling up in
Australia, and the piles will continue to
grow. There are almost unremembered
small lines which have become large in the
absence of shipping. Two thousand tons of
dried fruits, for instance, are lying in Aus-
tralian stores over and beyond Australia’s
own requirements. Here and there a voice
cries in the wilderness that there is trouble
ahead. But mostly, because ,Tohn Bull lias
treated Australia with amazing generosity
since the war started, this country is just
trusting to luck. Even those who gibed at
Britain for its old policy of “muddling
through” are apparently quite prepared to
muddle through themselves. How the cocky is
going to live if he can’t _ get paid for liis
wheat; how the squatter is going to live if
he can’t get paid for his wool; how the
miner is going to live if his boss can’t sell
the metal; how the storekeepers are going to
keep open if they can’t get the cocky and
the squatter and the miner to pay up, nobody
knows: nobody seems to care very much.
The peril is far too great to be faced by any
Government alone. Hughes and Forrest
ouaht to lose no time in calling a national
conference of bankers and financial experts.
From a man in the shipping business:—
Britain's food problem is tremendously grave. She
wants food more than she does recruits from Aus-
tralia. If she does not get it !
We have millions of tons of foodstuffs here going
to waste and cannot get it away for want of ships.
Yet since the war started the Government has
allowed 150,000 tons of tank-oil steamers to come
here manned by coolies and unload their colored-
labor goods on us, going back to Dutch Borneo or
Sumatra in ballast. They have not taken one bag
of wheat or flour to England. They have been (and
are) doing Germany’s work of assisting to starve
Britain.
Moreover, these tankers and the Dutch petroleum
fields have endangered our Indian Ocean transport.
The tankers come round our unsettled West
Coast and among the uninhabited islets fringing the
Indian Ocean. They carry the life’s blood of the
submarine and the raider —petrol, fuel oil, etc. The
result is obvious. There are 32 interned enemy ships
in the Dutch Indies, with the crews at large. These
crews have not been idle.
If we intend to get our wheat, etc., to Britain we
must look to the U.S.A. President Wilson says one
of the chief missions of his country is r.o feed
England and France. Is it not our duty to trade
with such an ally as U.S.A. in preference to the
Dutch in goods such as kerosene, petrol, fuel oil,
lubricating oil, tin plates, etc.? That is the only
way to get ships from the U.S.A. ; and by pro-
viding freights both ways lower rates are obtainable,
Do assist in stopping this crime against Australia
and the Empire—this crime of encouraging- tankers
to use our ports! England wants oils in bulk.
Packaged oils are no use to her. Let these tankers
be' diverted to Europe during the war, and then we
•‘.ill get cargo ships from U.S.A. to carry our primary
products. But even if we don’t Europe will get
the tankers: and our friends there want the oil
they will carry far more urgently than we do.
-
Tiie question arises whether an entirely
wrong policy is not pursued by the Federal
Government in connection with new indus-
tries. Capital for these cannot be raised
without the sanction of the Treasurer, arid
that is given in many cases subject strictly
to the condition that the prospectus (if any
is issued) shall be circulated privately and
in limited numbers and only to persons
known to be likely to subscribe. The excuse
for a policy of this kind is that the private
individual must not be permitted to come
into competition with the Commonwealth in
its hunt for war money. But so long as the
money subscribed is not sent out of Aus-
tralia. it is still available for the Common-
wealth Government. It merely changes
hands within Australia. It would be far
more sensible for the Government to refuse
to permit anybody to offer for sale, except
privately, any goods made outside Australia.
There would be sound reason in that; for
this capital goes out of Australia. Capi-
tal spent within Australia to estab-
lish industries not only remains in Australia
but also keeps in Australia money (or its
equivalent) which would otherwise be ex-
ported. But you can’t reasonably expect to
get that or any other sort of real Protection
from a Government with a Freetrade Prime
Minister and half a dozen Freetrade col-
leagues. The amazing thing is that, having
admittedly by their blindness made this war
possible, these people now claim to be the
only ones with clear enough vision to lead
us out of our troubles. And, on the strength
presumably of their past awful failure, Aus-
tralia gives them the job!
A cry from Marble Bar (Westralia) :
PAI.G. Webster is trying to save money in the-
lonely places. At Bamboo Creek (130 miles from
the coast and 1100 miles from Fremantle), where
there are about 40 miners, there is a post and
telephone office. (The line was put up about 25
years ago, when Bin John was Premier of W.A.)
The officer in charge is an old man who has received
an allowance of £BO per annum for the last 12
or 14 years, or ever since Forrest published the fact
that he was out to help the man who got into now
territory and knocked out a living. After Webster
took charge the allowance was cut down to £3O
odd per annum and the struggling miners and pros-
pectors were asked if they would make up the differ-
ence. (Presumably the alternative was to let the
old postmaster starve. He has no other income.)
They agreed to do it, or, at any rate, to do their
best. The following week they were asked if they
would make up the loss on their bi-monthly mail
service. Before they had time to get round and feel
the pulse of the camps, they received another letter
from the Postal Department reminding them that
the small iron two-roomed building used as a post
office was eaten out by white ants, and asking if
the Department found the timber, would the residents
of Bamboo cart and erect a new building? This
roused the battlers, and they flatly refused to do
anything more unless the old postmaster got every-
thing he required. The P.M.G. is threatening to
cut off other services. I wonder if Forrest knows of
his new colleague’s action, and, if so, what he
thinks. The big Westraiian who had roughed it in
his time always said if a man strikes out into
viigin country and gets a living from land previously
unoccupied he is worth more to the State than a
dozen men in the city.
Out of the month of Britain’s latest ally
comes the most scorching indictment of her
rulers. Yenizelos puts it this way:—
Great Britain has committed all the_ mistakes,
political and military, which it is possible for a
nation to commit; but she has the longest push and
should ultimately win. But the end is not vet.
The greatest of Britain’s manifo’d mistakes
has been its submission to a (Vnsorship which
prevented the sin's of incompetent Govern-
The Tittle Homes that Wait.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little homes stand patiently
In city lane or countryside;
Their square panes front the field and sea—
Forest, or cliff', or draggled tree.
Or drab wall stand beside.
The hollowed pavements of the poor
Blister beneath their eaves at noon ;
The spun drift whips them evermore,
Or bush land night about their door
Walks in her satin shoon.
Wardens of pain, who smiled and gave
(Had hostages to hope and fate,
Brave cradles of the countless brave —
The little homes that wait:
Tim little homes are ranged in rows.
Their scabbed paint scales and flakes and
falls
From plank, and pipe, and gutter-nose :
The cracked tiles slide, the loose board
blows,
The rank weeds cap the w r alls;
II libbed nail-heads fleck the foot-worn
floor —*
Naked and scoured and white as bone—
The seasons scar, the wheel-strokes score
The furrowed kerb that runs before
The jutting steps of stone.
About them broods a nameless thing
Woven of dreams and soundless feet,
A silver stillness listening,
A sadness that is sweet.
By plain and range and gully-bed,
Above their roofs the high noon swims,
Or white-limbed night lies diamonded ;
The blown leaves riot overhead,
The wind-racked forest hymns.
Gravely-perplexed and silent still.
They guard, from day to dragging day,
The places that, through good or ill.
The greybeard and the stripling fill
For those who marched away.
Dumbly they wait the swift relief
Of deep-toned voice and roughened hands.
In grief that probes a dimmer grief,
And dimly understands.
A thousand mingling whispers stray.
A thousand shadows meet and glide
In dusky coigns that mock the day ;
Soft footfalls sweep and sound and stay,
And, where at eventide
The chattering back-logs flame and fade.
Faint, half-heard breaths that stir apart
Chill like a ghostly falchion-blade
Touching in icy accolade
Upon the listener’s heart;
And when the wind awakes and blows,
And wan flames in the chimney flare,
There sound the quiet feet of those
AVho pause upon the stair.
The grief of things inanimate,
Of trellised porch or tiny room,
AVith youth and eld shall mourn and wait,
Watching the shuttle plied by Fate
Slip blindly through the loom.
The crowding weeds that thrust to kiss
The leaning blooms in plot and bed;
Grown garden-walks where stillness is ;
The dog that wakes and whines to miss
The hand upon his head —
These all shall bide, through dull duress
Of wordless hour and wilted day,
11 is coming through the emptiness,
Ilis voice who went away.
The little homes stand stolidly
By gully-side or faded street;
Fronting the slum, or range, or sea.
Or ringed with bush, they hold for me
A sadness that is sweet.
Their walls are brick, and slab, and stone,
Iron their roofs, or bark, or tile;
About their doors the lost winds drone,
The traffic drums its monotone,
The little gardens smile.
Wardens of grief and honor both,
Who knew the cost, yet dared to give,
Grave keepers of the nation's troth,
The little homes shall live !
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
“Vance l’.” : Most people who get their idea
of revolutions from newspapers despair of
Russia, and wonder that it could have
planned any offensive at all under the con-
ditions lately prevailing. They generally
over-estimate the amount of current disorder
and under-estimate the value of the stimulus
that an atmosphere of excitement gives to
production. Having seen something of revo-
lutions both in Russia and Mexico, I am
inclined to think that a little of the tonic
isn’t a bad thing for a country, even materi-
ally. Mexico actually increased its produc-
tion during the year of Madero’s successful
hid for power, and even now, after years of
trouble, is doing pretty well industrially,
except as far as some of the railways are
concerned. 1 can remember being in Chihua-
hua when Huerta’s army was engaged in
suppressing the counter-revolution there, and
I wondered at the general briskness in com-
merce till the American newspapers told me
exactly what was shaking the little towns
out of their coma. Again in Vladivostok in
1907, when the Skory and the Grosovoi
mutinied and fired on the town. I saw some-
thing of the effect that a little diversion has
on the Russian. About 300 people were
killed altogether; yet half an hour after the
firing had ceased business was roaring at a
redoubled pace, and even the Manchu wharf-
laborers seemed to be putting extra muscle
into their work. The inference, borne
out by statistics, is that in most
countries normal production is limited
by habit and routine, and that men can
increase their output enormously when stim-
ulated by something unusual. This isn’t an
argument, though, for heavy drinking
and continual sprees. Russia was in need
of a stimulant; but it might be the better
just now for a long, dull trip on the water-
waggon.


How to Save 10 Shillings
By Making Your Own Cough Mixture.
(By a Qualified Chemist.)
Housewives may now prepare their own family
cough mixture at an enormous sitting of hard
cash, and without the slightest trouble, thanks
to the discovery of lIKENZO (registered name
for MEAN’S ESSENCE). By ? imply adding
IT KENZO to water and sweetening according to
easy directions printed on the label, a pint of
superior-quality medicine for coughs, colds,
croup, influenza, bronchitis and sore throat may
be prepared in a few moments. A pint of
ordinary remedies, put up in a lot of bottles,
would cost at least 12s. It KENZO costs only
2s. Each bottle used, therefore, effects an
actual cash saving to the customer of 10s.—a
big <onsideration these times.
Money cannot buy a better cough remedy than
the home-made HEENZO mixture. It is wann-
ing, soothing' and healing, reduces feverishness,
loosens phlegm, and allays bronchial irritation at
once. Being free from all habit-forming drugs,
such as paregoric, laudanum, morphia, or other
opium compound,, U KENZO (HEAN’S ES-
SEM'E) is as safe and good for little children
as it is for adults.
' f . n EE p° (lIEAN ' S ESSENCE) is not
obtainable from your local chemist or store do
not accept any inferior imitation, should such
be offered to you, but send direct to G W
EEAA > Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh
street, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE— To protect both
the public and myself against imitators (of whom
a number have come to light) I have trade-
marked the word HEENZO, and all packets con-
taining my preparation, manufactured after
April, 191 1, bear the words HEENZO (regis-
tered name for HEAN’S ESSENCE). Therefore,
if when von ask for HEAN’S ESSENCE v o u are
handed “HEENZO.” you will know vou are get-
ting the original and genuine money-saving c ou~h
and cold remedy. 6
9 m
or
/TV
mmmtmu- *•
«*o „
*
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED Head Office: Corner Pitt
BRANCHES ~o n c ’ & Ki "B Streets, SYDNEY.
’ Qlieen Street * Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
E ptn^ CIDENT insurances effected.
SYDNEY H. CARY cS TTLEMENTS ‘ EQUITABLE DEALING.
G. HOWARD POPE. General Manager.
ments from being generally understood, or
even suspected, until the calamitous results
proclaimed themselves. Each new “reassur-
ing” statement is an admission of awful fool-
ishness and unaccountable lethargy in the
past. Listen to Lloyd Georgf, :
[ll the last two months of 1917 we will turn out
as many ships as we did iu the whole of last year.
We will turn out in 1918 six times as many ships
as in 1916.
The German “submarine menace” started in
February. 1915, aud must have been —cer-
tainly should have been —anticipated by the
Government. The available men and means
for shipbuilding were greater then than they
are now ; yet there tvas no increase in out-
put for the next 12 months. Even then the
increase was so half-hearted that the total
output can be made six times greater next
year! The figures as to shipbuilding are as
condemnatory of the Government as were
Lloyd George’s early announcements of the
astounding increases in the manufacture of
munitions. Disclosure of the backwardness
of Britain in adopting speeding-up measures
was in a great measure blocked by the
Censorship. It has throttled criticism in
the alleged interests of the public morale
and has justified itself by harping upon the
stringency of German censorship, ignoring
the fact that in Germany there has been no
large incompetence in war-management to
hide. Autocratic government at war con-
centrates all mind and energy on the busi-
ness of winning. Democratic government
doesn’t. That is the tragedy for humanity
in the present situation.
Reasons for Suspecting that there Is
Serious Business on Hand.
All the talk in the daily papers about what
is going to happen presently to the German
is just the same old trash—the trash of last
year, and the year before last. The time is
more than ripe to recognise that, until the
war begins to look very diffei’ent, we are
much more concerned about what is happen-
ing to ourselves and our friends. There is
nothing cheerful in any of that. To pre-
tend that everything is going well is shud-
deringly dangerous. Delusions about Big
Pushes and Steam Rollers have been enter-
tained in the past at tragic cost. To hang
on to them may easily prove fatal. To go
on ordering our public policy and our domes-
tic affairs as if the war were a mere in-
convenient incident is madness. The bitter
truth is that the issue is terribly
uncertain. Germany and her Allies have
no doubt suffered badly. But so have her
neighbors. Russia is in a condition of chaos.
France has been bled with a ghastly thor-
oughness. Italy has her hands more than
full. In Flanders the German armies, rein-
forced from points where opposition has been
bribed or battered down, not only hold the
fort tenaciously but are on the offensive. At
sea the German submarine is taking heavy
toll of shipping. Some stronger arguments
than the Russian calamity, the exhaustion
of France and the performances of the Ü-
boat will certainly have to be presented to
the Kaiser before he decides that things are
not going his way. If the war were on Ger-
man soil, and there was an empty German
pantry, there would he something to count
on the other side. But the war is not on
German soil, and the German armies are not
hungry. These are not pleasant facts, any
of them. Not one of them suggests that we
are winning. Combined, they suggest that
we cannot win unless we are prepared to
make larger sacrifices. Are we prepared to?
Or, to he quite frank, don’t we want to win?
Or don’t we really care which way it goes?
If so. why spend any life and money at all?
We ought to make up our minds one way or
the other.
The political situation in South Aus. gets
queerer than ever. Vaughan’s party met last
week and considered Peake’s offer to take
three of them into his Ministry, turning
three of his own team out to make room.
The reply was that the offer would be dis-
cussed at a conference of both sides. Peake
says he considers that no reply at all. The
inaiu difficulty is over the Premiership,
and what looks like a set attempt to push
Peake out of political life altogether is going
on meantime. The Register more than
hints that some of those behind the attempt
have reason to he grateful to the Vaughan
Ministry’s land-purchases. The Advertiser
has already scored heavily in getting tne
Coalition (which it has urged unceasingly)
at any rate offered ; and now it continues to
bombard Peake. The row seems likely to be
worse before it gets better.
Maurice Blackburn, of the Vic. Labor
party, asks The Bulletin to quote the text
of a letter of his. referred to last week. It
was written on July 4. 1915:
As you know, I strongly believe in the superiority
of British public law and British conceptions of
freedom to German—or indeed any Continental public
law, and German or, in fact, any Continental—con-
ceptions of freedom. I believe that the asylum
granted to political refugees has been a great benefit
to the world. And I hold that the spread of con-
stitutional principles in Europe is due mainly to
the example of Britain as a land of liberty as well
as security, and if Britain, by a reverse, were
reduced to the rank of Belgium, or even of France
I believe that the development of constitutional
principles and of individual liberty in Europe would
suffer a reverse.... Materially the working-class as
very little to lose by a German victory. Even a
German conquest of Australia would leave it hardly
-—if at all—worsened. If Germany can impose a
German standard of wages upon the Australian to
his injury, then why can she not improve the He
gian worker’s condition? His wages are the lowest
in Western Europe. Economic conditions deter-
mine wages. What the working-class has to lose
by the defeat of Britain is great, but it is more
a spiritual loss than a material loss —more a loss
of opportunity than a worsening ot material condi-
tions.
And The Bulletin trusts that the republi-
cation will do Mr. Blackburn all the good
that he evidently thinks it will.
There is likely to be a fresh controversy
over Orpen’s picture, “Sowing New Seed.’
which was bought for the S. Aus. Art Gallery
several years ago by a local woman-artist
visiting England. The exhibition of it in
Adelaide aroused a storm of criticism, and
after a time it disappeared from the Gallery
walls. It is probably worth more than the
£7OO which it cost, so there was an idea
that the painter might take it in exchange
for something less startling. But it never
left Adelaide; and as the Melbourne Gallery
has now asked for a loan of it, it may get
a fresh advertisement. Its one merit is fine
coloring. Its defects are; (1) Plain ugli-
ness; (2) a nude principal figure, the on-
lookers being clothed; (•») lack of interest.
When nobody in Adelaide could fix a definite
meaning to it. the lady who bought it sup-
plied one; and then Orpen himself, on appeal,
said it meant something quite different —was.
in fact, merely a caricature of a purely-local
squabble in Ireland.
Melbourne Coroner Cole has been trying to
investigate a case which recalls a South
Yarra murder of a year or two ago. when a
man went to a house where a “party” was
in progress, called one of the revellers to the
door, shot him dead and departed casually.
At the inquest it was obvious that various
witnesses knew a lot, but all disremembered
everything. This time whatever it was hap-
pened in Fitzroy, where several residents
hoard four men quarrelling after a “party,”
heard five revolver shots, saw one man fall,
one leave and return with a cab, and the
other two depart unostentatiously. Two
constables also heard shots and came and
overhauled the cab. Inside were Charles
Cleary and Walter Johnston. Johnston said
he had found his mate, Cleary, lying bleeding
on the footpath and was taking him to the
hospital; he had heard no shots and didn’t
know Cleary >vas punctured. Cleary himself
lingered in hospital for a fortnight; but
though often invited to explain matters, per-
sisted in being a blank. Just before
he went west lie called an expectant
'tec and whispered: “Do you think
I’m the one to give a mate away?”
and departed. Not only Cleary and John-
ston and the two persons who are missing,
but all the members of the “party” and their
lady and gentleman friends and Cleary’s
relatives, seem merely anxious to have the
occurrence regarded as though it had never
been. And though Coroner Cole issued
warrants for sundry arrests, it doesn’t look
as though lie will get much further ahead
even if they are served. r
The “peculiarities” of the income-tax in
Australia have been amusing and bothering
J. Bull. Under his Finance Act. 1916. relief
is given from the double tax payable first in
Australia, because the profits are made here
and then in England because the man who
owns the profits is domiciled there. The Act
allows relief to the extent of Is. 6d. in the
£, provided that that amount has been paid
in Australia. But while the States collect
income tax mostly from the cos., the Com-
monwealth collects from the individual share-
holders. calling on the cos. only to pay tax
on undivided profits. Mostly the State tax
is Is. in the £; and Westralian and other
cos. registered in England could not get the
relief till they had proved that all their
dividends had paid Is. 6d. in the £ in Aus-
tralia. They couldn’t until recently, when
they went smilingly to the British taxation
oflice with a receipt for a sixpenny Federal
absentee tax; whereupon John Bull’s col-
lector handed out taxation notices of 3s. 6d.
iu the £ instead of the ss. the cos. would
otherwise have had to meet—in addition, of
course, to anything payable as English War-
time Profits tax.
Dead at 72, William Dobbyn. best known
as one of the few Brisbane devotees of
Shakspeare. Scenting early expansion of
Bananaland’s capital when he began his
residence there in the ’SO’s he invested freely
in suburban sites, and owned large slices of
what are now populous localities. Between
whiles he was a city contractor.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Canary Cottage
Criterion “Mary Goes Mrst
Tivoli Mclntosh s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum .*. Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Red Widow
Royal ‘' D;lddy „k o " s Jf SB „
Kino’s Out There „
Princess’s “lhe Story of the Rosary
• r , VOLI Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Auditorium Scothey-White Concerts
Hoyt’s De Luxe A Olymima Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Mklha Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
“Out There.” which tried its luck at Mel-
bourne King’s last Saturday, has some of
the virtues and all the drawbacks of a reper-
tory play. It is less of a drama and more
“OUT THERE," AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
Cyril Mackay, as Prirate Herbert Hudd.
insists on Montague Marsh attending the
recruiting meeting.
of _a Conscription argument than “London
Pride.” though Conscription is only once
mentioned as a thing to be avoided bv Volun-
tary Effort. Apart from the Hudd family
there is the conventional patriotic doctor;
also an amusing little applicant for Lizzie’s
scornful affections who goes to work at
Woolwich Arsenal, and a number of inci-
dental character sketches of soldiers in hos-
pital. The dialogue is mostly humorous, but
one or two incidents have the true pathos
which makes some gods laugh and -moves
a few other'people to cry “Ssh!” Considered
as an appeal to English slackers i n the
autumn of 1915 it is an honorable attemm
bv the author of “Peg” to make an attractive
entertainment out of an utterly plotless pl av
with a purpose. The performance has no
human interest away from the war qu es .
tion.
And for Australian business purposes it
has the dis-attractiou of not being we u
played. Miss Allgood is in poor health, and
what ought to have been her spiriteu address
to an invisible multitude on Saturday night
was a mere string of halting sentences
uttered after the prompter, like a prayer in
the Church Litany. She struck an occa-
sional note of deep feeling earlier in the
evening, but her rich brogue was always
absurdly at variance with the Cockney diu-
“THE ROSARY,” at
Melbourne Princess's.
Peterkin's uncle goes
to see the baby.
lect of her relatives
and the family
name of Hudd.
tyi'ii Mackay \y as
about three times
too loud and em-
phatic for a Cock-
ney bloke in his
home circle, and
Miss Gilham’s im-
personation of a
matron who pre-
serves herself i n
gin was too genteel
and insufficiently
drunk. Miss Tien
Hogue was an
effective Lizzie de-
spite her crudities
of style due to
inexperience, and
Kay Souper walked
rjuietly through the
dear, kind doctor
part.
Cyril Maude’s appearance with “the Lady
Susan Fitzciarence" and others in mating
scenes from “School for Scandal” revealed
him as an actor of diminished personality in
ornate costume. 11 is Sir Peter had an air
of comparative insignificance. He walked
on so unimportantly that he got no reception
from the audience. He gave to the scenes
none of the traditional stage air of an old-
fashioned comedy of clothes and mannah's.
lie was amusing, of course, for no easy,
capable actor can be otherwise in the char-
acter. Author Sheridan assured its success.
But the actor hardly gave the impression of
•1 highly respectable country baronet who, at
50. had chosen the sort of young woman he
thought he could safely marry. The sugges-
tion of injured self-respect struggling against
uxorious fondness was not there. The two
principal young men of Cyril Maude’s Co.
played Joseph and Charles Surface. Elliott
made a saturninely good-looking Joseph
whose dissimulation was very dry and mat-
ter-of-fact. Old essayists speak of Jack
Bannister as the ideal impersonator of the
elder brother. He stood for perfection in
surfve, insinuating hypocrisy. Elliott cer-
tainly didn’t. Hanson, as an unattractive
Charles, was satisfactory only in his change
of mood when he saw the shame of Lady
Teazle. The fact that he had been a thought-
less dog in jesting at a tragic domestic situa-
tion seemed to strike him with real force.
Lady Susan Fitzclarence’s practised ama-
teurishness as Lady Teazle was interesting
as a study in misguided ambition. The
lady knew how to act the part in a skin-deep
way, but she hadn't the necessary youthful
figure and airy flightiness for it. nor the art
of realising the young matron’s unaffected
penitence at the finish. She was always
acting like a thoroughly experienced ama-
teur. and it was plain from the start that
she could have played the expansive Mrs.
Candour more naturally.
The Gonsalez swan song will be heard on
Saturday night, when Cappelli will empty
the hat. Complimentary performances have
been evenly handed out to the leading male
members of the aviary. Caeialli and Dag-
radi and the huge Belboni have each had a
helping this week. Probably they needed it.
Italian operatic stars have to twinkle at
reduced rates while Europe blows itself to
smithereens. With a stronger feminine sup-
port and a better orchestra, the co. would
have put up a creditable record. But, any-
way, they’re a kindly lot and beamingly put
this Wednesday’s takings aside for the
Italian Red Cross.
* * * *
Marie Tempest still Comes First at Sydney
Criterion.
“Canary Cottage” (now in its eighth
week! is coming down at Sydney Majesty's
on Friday, August 10. The co. will then do
a few revivals to enable Dorothy Brunton to
say good-bye in some of her best parts.
v v
The Ada Reeve matinde in aid of the
Anzac Buffet occurs at Sydney Tivoli on
OUT THERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A ’aunted girl was Mary Hudd,
Who sat and chewed reflection's cud,
And had the dreamy air
Of one with visions in her eye
Of boys that live like men, or die,
Or sore in need of succor lie —
The soldier boys Out There.
Now', Lizzie Hudd was smart and pert,
A gal as said the things that ’urt,
And did not twopence care,
Though slackers slacked, or heroes fell.
A dressy tart, a costers’ belle —
She bade her sister go to ’Ell
When minded of Out There.
Their brother ’Erb w'as just a bloke
As cussed and blustered when ’e spoke,
Because he was aware
(’E got the hint from Mary’s glance)
That better blokes ’ad took their chance
An’ volunteered, an’ gone to France
To fight the foe Out There.
And Mother Hudd! Her leer and wink
Denoted chronic thirst for drink ;
Likewise her vacant stare.
But ’Erb, and Liz, and Mum (the sot)
Were shamed by Mary’s ardor hot;
They did their bit, did all the lot,
To help the Cause —Out There.
Flash ’Erb enlisted. Lizzie’s views
Were altered; Mother chucked the booze
And tidied up her hair ;
’ Whilst Mary, with a doctor’s aid,
Went where the v'ounded lay arrayed—
A most devoted nurse she made
For patients from Out There.
Anon, with money in her purse,
She talked as a recruiting nurse
In old Trafalgar Square;
She railed the crowd in Irish tone
(The light showed none save her alone),
And then the curtain fell upon
The drama of Out There.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


&
YO
0 O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
%
DT
Swift & Company L,td., Australasian Agrents, 26/30 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
A NEW
AUSTRALIAN
FOR
manufacture
-v'ui■ i vtiNG COLD-AIR CHAMBERS AND REFRIGERATORS.
(OYEKIN? BOILERS HOT WATER AND ST RAM PIPES.
PACKING UNDER HEAVY MACHINERY, &c., &c.
hair felt
rrIT PARTICULARS AND NAME OF NEAREST WHOLESALE HOUSE
* eo. pbop tv. ,n>„
RB4 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE-
PEA PE S &C? 17.?
FOR EVERY OUTINC
—for your Saturday afternoons, your week-end
trips, and for leisure days generally this free-and-
easy Peapes Suit meets every demand. A coat that
gives easy play to the arms, and buttons in front,
no vest being needed. Spacious patch pockets with
flaps and buttons —-half-band and vent at back.
Trousers with side, hip and fob pockets and per-
manent turn-up.
In Grey-Green Tweed of neat check effect.
Heady to wear 55/*“
IVe pay postage. Please state chest, waist and
inside-leg measurt nn ei
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
fr
Friday, and if any patriotic theatregoer with
a job to keep doesn’t feel equal to burying
his grandmother that afternoon, the fairy
godmother of the Buffet will be satisfied if
lie sends a cash apology. She has already
raised £l5OO in Sydney, but is calling on this
city to make a spurt and beat Melbourne’s
£5OOO. It is a friendly challenge worth
accepting. The star’s season ends on Satur-
day evening.
James and Waller's “Look Who’s Here”
will reach a third edition at Sydney Palace
on Friday. A full orchestration of Tschai-
kowsky’s 1812 Symphony is the big musical
bait. From this on there will be a new
edition of the show every week, so that the
amusement-hunter may have a good excuse
for turning up once every seven nights.
* * *
“A Little Bit of Fluff” still defies the cold
westerlies of winter at the Opera House,
Sydney. Any night you can see muffled ex-
plorers going out to see how Carrie Moore
is faring in her distant outpost.
# # * *
Daddy Long Legs, who is now wreaking
anonymous philanthropy on various waifs
and strays at Melbourne Royal, has all the
qualities with which the hairbow imagination
invests its heroes. A shrewd authoress,
with an eye for flapper ideals, has afflicted
him with grey hair and an Old World grace,
and never allows him to be drawn from the
path of his munificence by any popular mas-
culine preoccupation. Apparently he neither
smokes nor swears, and whisky, women and
bagmen’s anecdotes are other forbidden
things. Indeed, so far as this paper is per-
mitted to know him, he is a type of elderly
bachelor-innocence who merely lifts his pen
from his cheque-book to seek sentimental ex-
citement in the society of Judy. This piffling
love-affair, which only appears dramatic by
comparison with his former emotional star-
vation, creeps through four acts of aimless
small-talk, cheap giggles and tea, main-
taining an even tone of decorous courtesies,
until it fades away in a diminuendo of
hushed vows in an old oak-room.
* * * *
J.C.W. first-nighters, who would have con-
sidered their intelligences insulted by any
similar humor coming from a humbler
theatrical source, roared enthusiastically at
the harmless idiocies of “Daddy,’ and gave
a warm welcome to the company which
wasted its time on the various roles. Charles
Waldron, who returned to Melbourne after
a long absence, is cast in the name-part, and
is of the stuff that flapperature is made,
lie holds the aggregate feminine heart in
thrall by his symmetrical attitudes, Ins
repertoire of graceful hand-waves and a
manner that is a survival of the Beau Brum-
mel period. But the greater part of his act-
ing is in his voice, which is exquisitely tuned
to the beat of every syllable. Miss Macdonell,
as Judy, is equal to all the small oppor-
tunities for emotion allowed to the charac-
ter, and she knows the dramatic value ot
hoarseness when called upon to simulate an
outraged feeling. Her stage methods are
quick, brilliant and nervous, with a tendency
to impatient energy when the tempo seems
slow. Louis Kimball mostly supers in the
rOle of a young blood about town. Miss
Eilv Malvon, as the matron of an orphan-
age, mixes vinegar with her vocabulaiy, anc
the effect is harrowing. Miss Emma lemple
positively warbles the human sentiments ot
Miss Pritchard.
Miss Olive Wilton
wilts as a parvenu
female with the
motto “Snoblesse
obl i g e.” Also,
Maggie Moore
occurs temporarily
as Mrs. Semple,
and Arthur Cornell.
Plumpton Wilson,
Miss Audrey
Wort h, Miss
Clarice Hardwicke,
and several small
children are the
main elements in
the human scaffold-
ing that keeps the
shaky edifice of
the story from tot-
tering. “Daddy
Long Legs” is
stronger in humor
than in pathos, but
this defect could be
remedied by asking
Miss Macdonell to
sing the famous old
ballad, “Daddy,”
“LA BOHEME” at
Sydney Hippodrome.
Scamnzzi as Chaunard.
with limelight effects at Waldron’s knee.
The only cause for complaint against this
week’s revival of “The Arcadians” is in the
limited dimensions of the chorus that was so
spectacular a feature of the long-ago pio
ductions. Phil Smith is the brightest and
impiest of Simplicitases, and the Peter Doodj
of Leslie Holland is now so like the dismal
jockey whom Tom Wall copied from the
London original that he might be mistaken
for him. Minnie Love is a sweet Eileen,
especially when she sings of her tiredness
for violets; Celia Ghiloni needs only a little
more embonpoint padding and a trifle more
earnestness in her acting to make her an
admirable Mrs. Smith; and Nellie Payne is
the neatest little Bobbie in trousers that
ever was. Ralston’s voice offers some amends
for his stodgy deportment under an un-
becoming belltopper, and Bantock is a new
sort of Sir George Paddock —an angry
“LUCIA DI LAM-
MERMOOR,” at Syd-
ney Hippodrome.
Cappelli, as Ed par of
Ravenswood.
elderly gentleman
worked up to a
climax which fully
justifies Doody in
wonde ring who
owed him the
threepence. Much is
made of the music.
Sombra (Gladys
Moncrieff) has the
fresh, pure warble
of one who never
told a lie or offered
the glad eye with
ulterior motives:
Villiers Arnold
adds 25 per cent, to
the previous value
of Astrophel;
Alice Bennetto
looks rather like a
daughter of the
Land of Platonic
Love, where life is
one long, harmless
picnic. The songs of
Arcadee will go
into recess again
after Friday. On
Saturday comes
the first Australian
production of “The Red Widow,” with Flor-
ence Young as the lady.
* $ * *
One more week of “The Story of the
Rosary” will end that tale of war and woe
at Melbourne Princess’s. Till then the king-
dom of Sillyria must continue to fight for
its existence behind the scenes, but on August
It the co. is to appear in “Seven Days’
Leave.”
At Melbourne Tivoli the change of pro-
gramme was delayed until Monday, when
four new turns came to pass in place of
Nellie Stewart of Old Drury and her outfit.
This statement is made without convincing
proof of the actual appearance of The
Camille Trio, Joe Reed, Martin and Boggs,
and Francis Pedruzzi. In fact, the advt.
alleged that the last-named stranger was
being held up by the Censor.
Additions to the Scotney-White concert
season at Melbourne Auditorium were inevit-
able. They are singing there again to-
night (Thursday) and on Saturday, pro-
ceeding to Castlemaine and Bendigo early
next week.
* si: W
At the Auditorium (Melb.) next Tuesday
night the Y.M.C.A. gives its second “All Aus-
tralian” concert, for a twofold purpose: No.
1, the raising of funds for Y.M.C.A. local
military camps ; No. 2, the encouragement of
Australian art —both as good as purposes
can be. Every item on the programme is of
native manufacture, and will be rendered by
native talent. The box plan is at Glen’s.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal pictures have been
dropped to allow Cyril Maude to give his
celebrated imitation of a testy old gentle-
man. The season, skilfully engineered as a
social event, promises to be a large success.
Willoughby finished a short and merry sea-
son at The King’s with “Why Smith left
Home.” At the Majestic “Stiffy” Phillips
and “Mo” Rene —immensely popular—put up
one more of their “revusical productions”;
the miscellaneous half of the bill has been
greatly brightened by the coming of the Le
Grohs. The Fisk singers are starting to
make melody at the Queen’s, and the mesmer-
ising McEwen at the Town Hall has revived
all the old arguments.
“He looks as if he had been born and bred
in a silo.” —Irvine on P.M.G. Webster.
Died lately in Adelaide, Mrs. Emily Hack-
house, a daughter of that member of Sturt’s
expedition who is credited with having
brought back and cultivated the beautiful
Sturt’s desert-pea.
On December 15, 1915, the German Im-
perial Treasurer told a tale to the Reichstag:
Great Britain is faced with a convulsion in her
prestige on the money market in her own country,
and also in the United States, where her lack of suc-
cess has been greatly due to the resistance of German-
Americans. With the shaking of the British financial
powers, the foundation of the British Empire is
tottering.
There is some little satisfaction in quoting
German official utterances of 20 months ago,
and crying “Rats!” to them. But there is
more sense in noting what the gentleman
said about the resistance of German-Ameri-
cans. How much resistance or assistance
are we getting from Hun-Australians?
AT POVERTY POINT.
Victor Champion, the J. C. Williamson
conductor, has been at it for over 20 years,
yet he had never seen a production of “The
Mikado” until the recent revival by the
Royal Comics, when he had charge of the
orchestra.
“Sr”: Charlie Neild, son of the bygone
Melbourne coroner, who fell at Pozieres,
knew Poverty Point from the scene dock
for many years. Starting as an architec-
tural draughtsman, Charlie took on scene-
painting, and was assistant to Brunton
(Dorothy’s father) when he was doing Bland
Holt's stuff. He also worked with Gordon,
whom he reckoned the finest of his craft in
Australia. It was pleasant to work alongside
Gordon and Neild and listen to them going
through every line of “Mikado” and “lolan-
the.” Charlie was a fine sport, good rest
to him !
When Cyril Maude was engaged for Aus-
tralia it was announced that he would pro-
duce a new thing by Haddon Chambers. But
owing to the success of “Grumpy” Australia
will not see Maude in anything else. In
any case, he would not have been able to do
the Chambers play, only two acts having so
far reached him. It is not certain whether
the tail of the comedy is now voyaging to
these parts or has been submarined.
“Harrison O.”: No management could
wish for a much better showman than Cyril
Maude. He works just as hard off the stage
as he does on, being prepared to go anywhere
or meet anybody if it will help feed the
press-agents or give the show a boost. At
various times he drank afternoon-tea with
pretty well every penwoman in Melbourne,
and visited clubs, salons, the Stock Ex-
change and even the City Council; always
making a happy little speech and telling
stories to whet the appetites of those who
had not inspected “Grumpy.” Probably the
only star seen in this country who was more
of a hero to his press-agent was Harry
Lauder. The Taits, with painful memories
of artists with temperaments and other dis-
abilities, swear by Lauder. He was always
ready to visit Caledonian Clubs, eat haggis
and otherwise wox*k overtime, so long as he
was encouraging bawbees to roll towards the
box-office. The Taits appreciated all this, the
more because the Scoatsman was on a fixed
salary.
“Deadhead” : Tree’s chief failing was his
intolerance of criticism. He was over-sensi-
tive and autocratic, and used his great influ-
enee to make it warm for whatever critic
gibed at his productions. I know more than
one man who suffered through criticising
Tree’s elaborate decorations of Shakspeare.
They were not able to retaliate in the way
Tree’s half-brother, Max Beerbohm, did on
Arthur Bourchier. Bourchier refused Max
admission to his theatre, and the Saturday
Review critic promptly went home and
wrote a vitriolic article on the verb “to
bouch.” He pictured future generations
deriving this synonym for vulgar offensive-
ness from Bourchier, an obscure London
actor at the beginning of the twentieth
century.
“0.K." : Melba is happy indeed in not feel-
ing seriously tempted to exploit her reputa-
tion to its financial limits in the golden
autumn of her voice. She can afford to
refrain from attempting anything which she
cannot do delightfully. Her artistic un-
common-sense is as apparent in her choice of
songs as in her singing. One can picture her
as an idol of 80 —her father lived to be older
than that—singing tender little ditties which
only a very aged artist could render to per-
fection. At the matinee in Melbourne the
other day she was just as much Melba as
when she first returned to Australia in hex-
prime. In ballads she showed the lovely
quality of her tones without putting her
executivdjl/owers to any tell-tale strain. The
one operatic item was the first part of the
bedroom-scene fi-om “Otello,” ending before
the arrival of the dusky husband with mu der
in his eye. Dim lighting; very subdued
orchestra; sadness in her song and quiet
fervor in her prayer: it was the prayero_
a heart-broken girl. Afterwards Melba talked
to the audience as sweetly as she had sung,
and in her Desdemona make-up she looked
not much older than her voice. Her mannei
was so pleasing, too. If Melba was ever the
cold, unemotional actress that critics said
she was when she first appeared in opera,
her improvement has been wonderful.
“Mallet”: The remark of “Cockaigne” (B.
19/7/T7), "Like Irving he was remarkably
generous,” upsets my preconceived notions,
picked up little by little from men who were
familiar with Irving’s ways. Among the
lesser lights of the profession, “As mean as
Irving” was an axiom, and whenever his
name came up someone would trot out the
cab story. Irving used to drive through St.
James’s to the theatre, and always carefully
endeavored to conceal his identity from the
cabby so that he would not be asked for
more than the minimum. One night the
cabby, who recognised him, drove past the
park, and Irving asked why. The cabby
said the park gates were shut. Irving wanted
the reason. “Well,” promptly responded Jehu,
“they do say as ’ow ’Enery Irving lost thrup-
penco there to-day and the park is closed till
it’s found.”
“Ancient Prompter”: Few Australian
playgoers are, I hope and believe, such
captious critics as “Harrison O.” (B.
19/7/T7). Cyril Maude has come, has been
seen, and has conquered, as the size of the
houses during his Melbourne season suffici-
ently proves. Ilis “Grumpy” has been voted
a superlatively clever character impersona-
tion by most discerning folk, But the carp-
ing “Harrison O.” butts in to ask if it is
Art, or any more clever than music-hall “imi-
tations.” ' Ye gods and little critics !
Maude’s record as a versatile mummer is
known far and wide, and “Grumpy” (which,
by the way, is the latest addition to his
repertory) is good enough to stamp him as
a consummate artist. Carpers like "Harri-
son O.” should be condemned to return to
the old playgoing round of meretricious
’Murkan dramas and faked stars of the same
nationality.
“0.K.”: “Stargazer,” making _a _noise
about Ko-kos he has met (B. 20/7/’l7), is
barking up the wrong tree. True it is that
Howard Vernon was, at his best, a forceful,
careful, broadly-pieturesque and magnetic
comedian, who gave Australia several Gil-
bertian creations which his admirers accepted
as models for future generations. But
“Stargazer” is only one of a multitude that
judged the performance without an accurate
knowledge of the book, or experience of the
original English creations under the author’s
supervision. Who was the Ko-ko of the
book? A fussy little “cheap tailor” who.
having been condemned to death for flirting,
“was reprieved at the last moment, anti raised
to the exalted rank of Lord High Execu-
tioner.” Every line of Ko-ko’s dialogue
presents him as a chirpy, frivolous little up-
start from the cheap-tailoring trade, with an
eye for the flappers of Titipu and the heart
of a mouse. Hear him talking to Nanki
Poo: —
“Why, I never even killed a bluebottle! I can’t
kill you—l can’t kill anything !” (Weeps.)
In short, he was just the soft-hearted, feeble-
minded, frisky little ex-tailor that Workman
presents, and not the “grave, slow, dignified,
earnest” person that “Stargazer” was intro-
duced to long ago. I remember Howard
Vernon’s Lord High Executioner as a tall,
sinewy, yellow, saturnine, sinister (not to
say, g-hastly) sort of melodramatic figure to
whom flirting seemed impossible, and whose
announcement that he hadn’t the heart to
kill even a bluebottle was a satire on his
appearance and style. He might have been
specially selected to kill a coal-heaver and
revel in the deed. His rough cry of
“Katisha!” when he came along to make
peace with the awful woman by proposing
to marry her, was utterly false to the charac-
ter. whereas Workman is so realistically
terrified that he can hardly whisper her
name. From first to last he suggests the
real mincing, undignified Ko-ko. From first
to last Howard Vernon’s representation of
the reprieved flirter was wrong. Let "Star-
gazer” read the libretto and convince him-
self. I seize this opportunity to declare my
opinion that the early Australian perform-
ances of Gilbert’s operas were not so true to
the text as many later ones. The people
who swear by them are the slaves of their
youthful impressions. I have learned to dis-
trust mine.
“399th Reinfts” : In our little lot we have
some Yanks who came across to-us when it
didn’t seem that the U.S.A. were likely to
enter the war. They say that even the side-
walk kids made things uncomfortable for
Wilson in those days. In Chicago they had
a dance that they called the Wilson tango.
Its formula was one step forward, two steps
sideways, three steps backward, and some-
times the ribald dancers cut out the one step
forward.
(Continued on page 3h-)
THE SINGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The comely singer smiling stands,
With Genee's poise and dainty grace,
White clad in foaming storm of lace,
And in her slim, bejewelled hands
The feathered fan, a crimson glow ;
Red roses flung upon the snow.
She “Caro Nome” sings, and sweet
From sunlit, fairy gardens all
The pure bird-voices coo and call.
They flock and twitter at her feet,
And rising in a passion flee
To flood the dome with melody.
To better hear the singer's song
We close our eyes, and then to see
The picture, of distractions free,
We stop our ears. But not for long;
For here a dissonance appears—
Our eyes are jealous of our ears 1
VICTORIA.
E. D.


fey*
r
v:
THROW OFF THE MASK!
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLACKHEADS, are Ugly
Features. Refined Folks avoid your Acquaintance.
I will tell Every Reader of this Paper FREE how
Every Blemish can be Removed in Ten Days.
Stubborn cases
have been cured
that baffled physi-
cians and beauty
specialists for
years. You have
never in all your
life used or heard
of anything like it.
Makes muddy
complexions, red
spots, pimples,
blackheads, fi'bckles, eruptions, vanish almost like
magic. No cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plas'er,
bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus, nothing
to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a "fright,” whether your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pim-
ples and eruptions, or whether your skin is rouph and
’ porey,” and you’ve tried almost, everything under the
sun to get rid of the blemishes. This wonderful treat-
ment, in just 10 days, positively removes every blem-
ish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way. You
look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and
tint of purity of a freshly blown rose. In 10 days you
can be subject to wild admiration by all your friends,
no matter what your age or condition of health.
All Methods Now Known are Cast Aside.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take interna!!y,
Y our face, even arms, hands, shoulders, are beaut ift * d
beyond your fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely
prove to you before your own eyes in your mirror m 10
days. This treatment is absolutely harmless to the
most delicate skin, and very pleasant to use. No
change in your mode of living necessary. A few
minutes daily does it.
To every reader of this paper I will give full details
of this really astounding treatment. Let meshow you.
You risk nothing. Send me 2d. stamp, you name and
address and I will give you full details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN (Suite 52 ), 178 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNLY
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and l p-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“Rio”: Defence Minister Pearce, replying
to the usual Parliamentary question about
saluting, said recently, “One officer saluted
another officer and so it went on through the
various ranks.” This is wrong, and Pearce
ON THE DEFENSIVE.
"Why do you tell me so many fibs?”
“Why do you ask me so many questions?”
has been at the game long enough to know
it. One officer does not salute another officer
off duty, lie only does so “when addressing
or being addressed by a senior officer on
parade or on duty” (vide Commonwealth
Military Regulations). If this rule applied
“through the various ranks” there would be
no trouble about saluting at all. What Bill-
jim objects to is having to salute all officers
whenever and however met. In a democratic
country like Australia where there is no
social distinction between officers and men
and the two are continually meeting, it is
impossible to carry out the present regula-
tions. Officers of the regular British Army
will not attend any place where they must
meet privates as social equals for this very
reason. But such a custom is unthinkable
in Australia. Again, the average sergeant-
major is a far superior disciplinarian to. the
usual run of second-lieutenants; yet he
entitled to the rite either on or off duty, lo
say, therefore, that saluting is necessary to
discipline is absurd ; while the threadbare
yarn that it is not the man but the uniform
or commission that is saluted is unintelligible
to most Australians. Let the Minister have
the same regulation for men as officers —
that is, no saluting off duty—and there will
be no further trouble about the matter.
* * * *
Somebody should make trouble hot for the
heartless swindlers of women who have rela-
tives at the Front. Clairvoyants and
“mediums” put up the most cruel sort of
confidence trick in taking money for alleged
communications with sons and husbands and
sweethearts who have gone to France. Gener-
ally a grief-stricken client pays for messages
from the spirit world ; sometimes men alleged
to be still living send messages of comfort
which in at least two cases-—in Brisbane —
were denied by official intimations of death
weeks before. ' When to the suspense of the
lonely women in Australia is added the money
spoliation by these almost-always foreign
and sometimes colored charlatans, the case
calls for a large, indignant policeman or
a big brawny relative who refuses to hear
explanations.
“Southland”: Results are now available
of a bottle-gathering crusade organised in
the largest dry town in Maoriland on behalf
of the Red Cross funds. The local Rugby
Union called upon patriotic school children
of Invercargill to get busy, and within a few
weeks the grand quest had accumulated
75,000 bottles ! Price of empties, up to 2s. 3d.
per doz. South School headed with 25,000,
of which about 20,000 were beer wraps.
The proud and industrious South School
students heaped up tne fruits of their raids
in the grounds of their seat of learning, less
than 100 yards from Amethyst Hall, the resi-
dence of Mrs. Lee-Cowie, who spends most
of her life telling Australia and Maoriland
to cut out the beer, and who regards Inver-
kegville as a brand plucked from the burning.
What the good old soul thought of it I don’t
know; but the Red Cross said the £250
handed in didn’t smell any worse than any
other two centuries and a half.
* * * *
“Cherokee”: Talking of surprise packets
in the trenches reminds me of the British
staff-officer who, struck by the adequacy and
address of a Billjim sergeant in temporary
charge of a platoon, inquired: “Ah, my man,
you seem to have the public-school stamp,
what? Were you ever at a—haw —public
school?” “My oath I was.” said
Billjim. “Melbourne Grammar and Trinity
College! And if it hadn’t been for this
war, by this time I’d have
been in Holy Orders!”
* * •* *
“The Colonel”: When Miss Pastforty’s
dear old cat died the other day, the owner
realised that she couldn’t have him interred
in her flat. So she decided to give him a
marine burial in the Yarra that evening.
During the day she carefully
sewed up the corpse and some
old iron in a bag and wrapped
it all neatly in brown paper for
transportation to the river. Just
at dusk she tremblingly set
forth along the Yarra bank, as
many a poor girl has done be-
fore, to dispose of her Encum-
brance. Once or twice she saw
likely-looking places, but upon
closer inspection they Were
found to secrete couples. So she
wandered on farther, until in a
particularly lonely place she be-
came conscious of the fact that
she was being followed by a
man. She walked on faster—
but so did the shadower.
Very soon he was walk-
ing at her elbow, bully-
ing. The frightened lady
raised the funereal par-
cel in a threatening way ;
the rough grabbed hold' of
it and, although she resisted violently, he
finally tore it from her hands and vanished
in the darkness. I doubt whether a dead
cat ever travelled so fast before.
“Gengnlphus”: Guido Baracchi, a Mel-
bourne Uni. undergrad., has stirred up a
storm unlike anything in his father’s experi-
ence. It all arose from his ill-timed hut
negligible comments in the University
Magazine on Australia’s attitude to the wmr.
Guido was passing judgment on a series of
articles by certain professors, and most of
his remarks were made through a long yawn
of boredom which he was at no pains to con-
ON THE HORNS OF A DELIGHTFUL DILEMMA.
LADY: “Thin in the third time you have come to me for assistance! What makes you call
so often ?”
DIPLOMATIC DAN : “I cannot say for certain, Madam, which it is—the flavor of your
delightful cookery or the charm of your fascinating manner."
ceal. His article, which he took the pre-
caution of having passed by the Censor,
opened : “The war, whatever the Jingoes and
the Junkers may tell us, is not primarily our
affair.” Now, the Uni. Maga. has not a
vast circulation; but the profs, were piqued,
and wide was the hospitality of the Argus
when it opened its columns to the letters of
correspondents who, on the strength of
Guido’s remarks,- sought to impugn the
“loyalty” of the “shop” in general. To
prove that they at least were right-thinking
the students in a great body went down to
—the recruiting depot, of course? Well,
not quite that far. Two hundred of them
met Guido at a meeting of the Historical
Society and invited him to come outside, lie
went, met five score more, and the three
hundred proceeded to duck him in the lake.
They actually didn’t do even that much ; the
traitor went in only up to his ankles, agreed
to apologise, and honor was satisfied. It
would be interesting to hear what grads and
undergrads at the Front think of it all. It
doesn’t sound a bit like the story of Gal-
lipoli.
Broken Hill found a new excuse for knock-
ing off work last week. One of its State
members, Percy Brookfield, was to be prose-
cuted under the War Precautions Act for
saying something prejudicial to recruiting;
and on the day the S.M. was to hear the
evidence all the mines were thrown idle.
There was a wild idea, expressed with many
winks, that Baillieu—in these days the most
conspicuous mineowner—has some extraor-
dinary influence over somebody or other, and
that rather than lose any of his dividends
he would urge somebody or ofher to abandon
the prosecution. But the idea wasn’t as
brilliant as it looked ; the prosecution wasn’t
abandoned, and Percy was fined £5O, in
default six months.
“B'obstay”: Now that ships have become
so scarce, Hughes is casting covetous eyes
(«n the models of steamers in the shipping
offices. They are housed in glass cases, and
they cost more than you’d think. When a
vessel is built it is usual for the contractor
to supply a model, true to scale and in detail
the value of which is from £lOO to £looo’.
One of the finest is that of Mcllwraith
McEacharn’s Katoomba, The miniature is
Si- feet long, and is fitted with electric lights
and a fan. The Morea model (P. and O )
is 12 feet in length. Howard Smith’s people
take pride in the Canberra, on show in their
Sydney office, and the Cooma. in Melbourne
This model is worth £BOO. Others are the
Union Co.’s Niagara. Makura, Wakatipu
and Koromiko. the last being one of the few
turret-decked steamers in these waters. There
is» a half-model of the Loongana, valued at
£250, which is so displayed by mirrors as to
appear complete, lluddart Parker’s best is
the Flimaroa, 8ft. Bin. long. Then come the
Werribee, Riverina and Ilygeia (the old Bay
steamer). A melancholy memento is a
beautiful replica of the tug Nyora, which
foundered the other day, only two of her
company being saved.
“Docket” : The watchword of our merchant
princes is “Economise and Win the War.”
This is how they do it -
Sydney Chamber of Commerce (Inepd.),
George and Grosvenor-streets,
Sydney,
23rd July, 1917.
Dear Sir,—
ANNUAL 1)1 \X Kit TUESDAY, JULY 31.
Tn the absence of a reply from you to our letter
I venture to remind you of this function. It i'
hoped members of the Chamber will make a good
showing, as his Excellency the Lieutenant-Governor
and other distinguished guests will be present.
Yours faithfully,
J. N. Bell,
Tickets 2os. Secretary.
PREPARING HIM FOR IT.
HE: "I admit you are altogether too good
for me.”
SHE: “ Yes—if you married me you would
find me too good to be true.”
THE PALE RORSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
llis manger they have heaped with dead,
His rack is piled to rafter-height;
But still unsated, still unfed,
The Pale Horse whinnies to the night.
When first the shadowed East grows grey,
With forelock in the winds a-toss,
He gallops down the gun-strewn way
While every hoof-stroke carves a cross.
Through all the ages, year by year,
He hath but little starved, I trow;
Yet never fared so well as here,
Yet never fed so full as now.
With scarlet nostrils snuffing low
To scent the savor of the dead,.
lie tracked the reindeer in the snow
And trailed the runners of the sled.
Amid the saltbush and the sand
He nuzzled through the burning drought,
And tore the flesh from flank and hand
And flung the whitened bones about.
With trembling lips and bloodshot eyes
He searched the waters west and east;
Where many a golden galleon lies
He wallowed in his wave-flung feast.
Earth fed him all these thousand years,
Gave him her boldest and her best,
And still he tramps in blood and tears
From Verdun Fort to Vimy Orest.
Tils manger they have heaped with dead,
His rack is piled to rafter-height,
But restless still —unfed —unfed—
The Pale Horse whinnies through the night.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


10 6
buys
this"
Hat.
THE “DUKCLIFFE” HAT,
The “Duncliffe” Hat at 10/6 (as illustrated) is equally suitable
for town or country wear. It is made in all sizes, from
superior fur felt that will render service in all weathers The
brim is 2 % inches wide and has a cut edge The shades to
choose from are: Brown, Fawn, and Light or Dark Grey, with
black band or band to tone.
SEND FOR YOUR SIZE ON APPROVAL. WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba.
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You’re child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act naturally
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember,
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals California Syrup of Figs
“Calitig”—for children's ills: give a tea-
spoonful, and in a few hours all the waste
matter, sour bile and fermenting food clogged
in the bowels pass out of the system, and
you have a healthy and playful child again.
All children love this harmless, delicious
fruit laxative, and it never fails to effect a
good "inside cleansing.” Directions for
babies, children of all ages and grown ups
ai'e plainly on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “Califig”—California Syrup of
Figs—then look and see that it is made by
the California Fig Syrup Company. Refuse
substitutes. All chemists sell “Califig"
California Syrup of Figs—in bottles of tw>
sizes. Is. lid. and Is. Od. [4
“E. Due” : N.S.W. Education Department
makes the lowest-grade teacher learn that
“the ordinary unlined, cast-iron stove is
dangerous and undesirable. It is liable to
get red-hot, in which case poisonous gases
MAKING HIM COMFORTABLE.
THE SWEET GIRL RECRUITER: “I love these
war pictures! It makes one's mind so
easy to see all those splendid boys
away fighting for us —for me and for you.
It makes you feel so comfortable,
doesn't it?”
nre liable to permeate the metal and affect
the occupants of the room." W hen he goes
fur the next examination he has to remem-
ber • “Another unpleasant feature is the ten-
dency of cast-iron stoves to give off carbon-
monoxide, a highly-poisonous gas.” And what
do you think the wise old Department heats
its'schools with? Why, with unlined cast-
iron stoves, of course!
“Ancient Mariner” : In days gone by the
foreshores of Dawes Point, Sydney, were
dotted with residences. An old salt was one
day beating up the harbor in an ark, when
she took a sheer with wind and tide, and.
before she could be hauled away her bow-
sprit had perforated the upstairs window’s
of one of a terrace of houses close to the
water’s edge. The distraught mariner,
hastening for’ard to ascertain how many
people he had slain, was hailed by an
excited and dishevelled female yelling at the
top of: her voice: “Take your ship out of my
room! Take it out! Don’t you see I’m
dressing?” She seemed to think the poor
sailor man had put it there on purpose. The
outraged ma’am was able to use the sprit
for a couple of days as a clothes-horse, for
the barquey took a lot of coaxing away.
THE LAST PAGE.
THE ORACLE: “I always said young Biffkins wa too daring. First he won an M.C ., then
a V.C., then a D.S.O., and now”
THE OTHERS: “Why, what's he got now?”
THEORACLE: “ R.I.P .”
“J.T.D.’’: Getting severely stung by the
thrift microbe distributed by the Common-
wealth Government, I foreswore morning
shower and afternoon-tea, and so 17s. 6d. was
saved. Swelling with patriotism, I mounted
the steps of the palatial Commonwealth Bank
and purchased a £1 War Savings Certificate.
This happened in April. The certificates
not being available at that time, an interim
receipt was handed out. Last week a regis-
tered letter arrived in an envelope (trade
price £1 per 1000), heavily sealed on both
flaps with wax, impressed w T ith the Common-
wealth registry stamp, a registration number
stamp on one corner, and a fivepenny stamp
on the other. The portentous-looking pack-
age so disturbed the family that it fell upon
my neck congratulating me on the arrival of
the long-awaited legacy. Feeling proud I
opened and found —a post-dated quid. What
a practical demonstration of thrift!
Graeme Balsillie, who has for a long time
been studying air-currents and weather-condi-
tions in divers out-of-the-way
spots, with a view to induc-
ing rainfall, has at last
obtained the desire of his
heart. This is the establish-
ment of his expensive appar-
atus in the Mallee and Riv-
erina, with the Federal
Government paying the bill.
In the Mallee he will have
a tough proposition, for the
charts show that in the
North the wheat-season
rainfall is less than 10
inches, while the whole
annual fall does not exceed
15. Much the same dry re-
marks apply to Western
Iliverina, so if Ralsillie suc-
ceeds in these regions there
will be any number of
pleased, prolix rural-produc-
ers rising up at celebrative
banquets to call him blessed.
On the other hand, if he
fails, the same people will
have the usual thing to say
about the misuse of Govern-
ment money on chimerical
proposals—and some of them will be even
ruder than that.
The importing craze, which has starved
so many industries, has another death to its
credit, a man having had a funeral in West-
ralia as the result of anthrax, contracted by
the use of a shaving-brush manufactured
Abroad. It having been reported by the
N. S. Wales Customs that brushes from
Japan were infected, an examination dis-
closed that one bunch of bristles bore an-
thrax germs and that others contained
organisms of a dangerous character. The
W.A. case confirmed this diagnosis, so it s
no use asking for any more Asiatic brushes
—till this scare is forgotten.
“F.N.T.” : There is the Usher of the Black
Itod, of course, and the imported aide-de-
camp, the picture-show "spruiker” and the
staff which housemaids the Lady Mayoress’s
rooms at the Town Hall, for all of whom
war-time economy should offer more produc-
tive jobs. But there is one human relic
of older, slower days who never would have
been missed had he been put to work any
time during the last
couple of decades. This
is the man with the
red flag who acts as
warner-off fo r the
municipal road-roller,
wav i n g away the
traffic just as though
a motor-car had never
come into that street.
Necessary, is he? Well,
observe the steam-
roller making the pace
on its homeward way
when the long day’s
toil is over, tearing
along at a full mile an
hour ahead of its
top macadamising-
pace. Where is the
person with the red
flag, now more than
ever needful for warn-
ing children out of the
way and saving the
life of the short-sighted
old gentleman who has
strayed off the side-
walk? Where is that
i n d i s p e n sable red-
flagger? Gone —gone
home ! Jugge r naut
may get to its stable
by itself, for all he
cares, now that the
hour of his release has
struck. The flagman,
of course, is an im-
ported curse. For a
long time after the
motor-car industry had
been started in France
and Germany Britain
closed her roads to
mechanical traction,
properly-flagged road-
making machines being
the only exception.
Now we have the flag-
wagger in Australia simply and solely
because be is an old English custom.
“The Bird”: A dozen members of the Vic-
torian Artists’ Society have started a revolu-
tion on Eastern Hill, and are demanding an
extraordinary general meeting “to express a
want of confidence in the council, or some of
them in particular.” There are damning
charges against certain members of tlie com-
mittee of not hanging the works of those
who believe Australia is a sunny land and
not a wilderness of grey and gloom. In
short, the revolutionaries accuse the Mel-
drummers of being wowsers in oil and
canvas.
“Captain Kidd." through his megaphone:
Some rough stuff is handed out in marine courts.
A case in point is that of the tug Xyora, whic.i
recently emptied her crew into the ocean on the
S. Australian coast. The evidence of the master
was that the vessel left Adelaide with an American
vessel in tow for Sydney, carrying about 180 tons of
coal to see the job through, about 40 tons of it being
on deck in bags. Yet the Marine Board at Adelaide
murmured that it could not find fault with anybody I
It is pertinent to ask if there is an official at the
S. Aus. port whose business it is to keep an eye
on the loading of sea-going' vessels. If so, what was
his address when the Xyora put to sea?
An imbroglio involving one John Thom
and another Henry Willis has been convuls
ing a small centre in the northern Wimmera
(Vic.). It seems that John Thom, being
angry with Willis over some calves and cer-
tain water rights, took his neighbor on.
morning recently and threw him down a
well. Then he walked away, and the unfor-
tunate was only rescued when Garter, who
owned the well, went to draw water and
found Willis’s hat in the bucket. Upon his
recovery Willis set about securing repara-
tion. What action he took this paper cannot
say ; but the second stage of the quarrel has
been reached with the appearance the other
day of the subjoined "apology” in the local
Record
I the undersigned, being called upon to make public
expression of contrition for having thrown Mr. Henry
Willis, of Wheatfields, into Mr. Arthur Carter's drink-
ing well, take this opportunity of offering a heart-
felt and unqualified apology to Mr. Carter. (Signed)
John Thom.
Last week in Sydney a cake baker was
before the Court on a charge of being filthy.
It was all the old familiar filth except that
ancient cakes and fragments of cake, after
being shopworn and otherwise damaged, were
put through a sieve r.nd worked up again into
new delights. The baker was fined, and,
having paid up. went out to get ready for the
next afternoon-tea. But he oughtn’t to be
allowed to, once a dirty cook always a dirty
cook being a law of life that knows no excep-
tions. The person convicted of fouling cakes
in the making may clean up his premises
enough to escape the clutch of the law; but
his cakes will still be dirty—just as dirty
as he dares to make them. Hence there should
be no half-measures in cases of this sort:
one clear conviction should spell o-u-t.
NO OBJECTION TO THAT.
SHE: “Oh, it's no use your asking for
father's consent to our engagement."
HE: “Do you think — er—if I enlisted he
would raise any objection?"
SHE: “On the contrary, he would be tie-
lighted."
Same old casual! Here is a postcript
from the letter of an eighteen-year-old war-
rior to his dad: “P.S. —I got married the
other day. She’s not a bad sort.”
THE NEW CHIVALRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The United States Senate passed the Aviation Bill,
which provides £1,300,000 for a monster aeroplane
fleet for Europe.”
The purple deepens and the day is gone.
Our broad wings cleave the levels of the sky—
Ten thousand knights that ride their chargers on
To smite amid the darkness. Cold and high
The white stars watch ; and earth and silent sea
Await the horror of the thing to be.
No peering searchlight splitting mist and cloud
Has found our moving host upon the wing;
No plumes are ours, no pennons streaming proud,
No bugles to our marching columns sing ;
The earthward folds of air have softly drowned
The rhythmic engines’ smoothly-beating sound.
Below ns breaks the sudden surf of death —
The flame-edged fringe of that wide human sea
That rolls its might in steel-barbed sulphurous breath
To win o’er stubborn shame the mastery.
Wo glide above the thunders as of doom ;
The wide sky-ocean gives us place and room.
Dip ! The white leaders glimmering through the dark
Stoop earthward like a falcon on its prey.
Tense-nerved, along the line we note and mark
The breaks of fire, the wide smoke rolling grey.
The hour has come! Unseen of all below
We hold the death-stroke that shall cleave the foe.
Down through the rushing leagues of night-cold air,
Wing after wing, we follow those that lead.
The bombs are loose that hold the red despair.
The whole world shakes to our tremendous deed.
Too late the startled foe may mark and see
The coming charge of our white chivalry!
Who rides for France? Who rides for truth and right?
Who rides for all the good the world may know ?
Lances of fire are splintered in the night;
Sabres of lightning wheel above the foe.
The guns, forsaken, cease; and on and on
With terror’s scourge we lash them to the dawn.
No walls may guard, no fortress stay our charge.
Confusion on confusion heaps the field.
In the red morning light the breach grows large;
White-faced, the thin battalions fly or yield.
And still white wings glide into sun and shine,
Winnowing despair behind the broken line.
The daylight brightens and the noon draws on.
Our broad planes cleave the levels of the sky.
War’s ruins from our eagle sight are gone,
Yet in deep phalanx eastward still we fly,
Ten thousand wings that league on league must win
To bomb the news of triumph through Berlin.
Bust is their sword; and dead the thought that made
A blusterous war of earth-bound steel and flame.
The chargers of the air with keener blade
Have pierced the legions of their pride and shame.
A world redeemed to freedom thrills to see
The squadrons of the sky’s white chivalry.
N.SiW.
GEORGE STREET.


PATCHING THE DRUM.


HER HOUSE IN ORDER,
“Behind most of the squabbles in Europe there lurks at least one royal nuisance.”
MADAME EUROPA: “These small creatures have disturbed my peace too long!"


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
Four Sydney Professional Nurses testify to this Nerve Medicine, CLEMENTS TONIC
Because „,ev ha\e „„u, that cases ot Weakness a t ,e r feuer an* odious au„ K eue ral 8.-.eaU,,, a JZ Cove", ( Il !
MRSE L. BENNETT, who has her own private hospital, “Montone,” Ashburner
Street, Manly, N.S.W., writes the following letter’
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
good hea o lth. What 1 knOW 0f yOUr medici,le there is no need for sick people to say farewell to
.“f hav ?. followed the nursing profession for 10 years, and I have observed the results of
vanous medicines on my patients, and I agree with others that Clements Tonic il a remark
able good remedy for people who are affected with bad nerves, melancholv and imomnfa It
certainly has a curative power, and any delicate person could not do better than take it When
exhausted it always gives me renewed strength. “/-«,• XT ' e it. When
b (Signed) Nurse Bennett.”
NLRbE OSUEEI\AN, Redfern and Parramatta, of 34 years’ constant nursing service
in the above districts, writes that in her opinion Clements Tonic is a medicine
specially suited to constitutions weakened by illness. She writes-
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD. '
ycars“at C Pa r riama 0 t n ta my at Y ° U,,S StreCt ’ Redfern > for 25 and for the last nine
“f have had a large number of sick people under my care, and it has been a pleasure to
recommend Clements Tonic. I knew it would give good results. Mv niece was rather l,?,? / 1
in health lately, but she is getting on splendid as the result of taking your marine
“(Signed) Nurse O’Sullivan.”
1 ' Vll i' an ? St f eet - Paddington, sends her opinion of Clements
ionic alter l» years’ professional experience.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
the IeT S t r b“ a exha y usted S J aS b !T a great b . lessin * to mc - 1 take it when feeling
15 years and have a very large profefsiSfcfienWlT SerVl ° eS ‘ 1 haVe f ° llowed my P rofession for
tion this med . ic . ine to W patients and others in cases of Neuralgia Indigos-
— (Signed) Nurse Mary Roe.”
Clements T ‘ ‘ om m end* *it ea(l Roa<l ,\ Woollahra, N.S.W., writes of-
Dyspepsia and Acute Nervousness.” ° *”* patients in rases of Indigestion,
those whose systems C fee?The strain* ofVrdn* Ne^ V t Restorers Possible for Invalids or
A few doses of this medlcine works wonders lab ° P8 ’ eBpeclall > commercial life.
NURSE HALL writes:—
l? nnot estimate the value of your medicine
Where my patients show symptoms of wont nf i
recommend it. My house would not be thorn nervousness and dyspepsia I often
“r™,,,, . derive much {S&g£r*Bl, ft,m,ed
“(Signed) Nurse E. H. Hall.”
Essentially the medicine for the invalid, or for those weak from overwork fever
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W. CLEMENTS TONIC DOES GOOD BECATTSFrT rsTrnrm' " eW I ' le to the system > tones up the stomach, liver or nerv
;s. Try it to-day.
EVERYWHERE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRING
August birthdays: Dr. J. C. Verco, Adel-
aide, 60, on Ist; Alfred Deakin, 61, on 3rd;
Prof. Ennis (Adelaide Uni.), 53, on sth;
Justice Isaacs (High Court), 62, on 6th;
L. J. Brady, 48, on 7th ; Alec Poynton, ex-
Federal Treasurer. 6*, on Bth; Colonel YVal-
lack, 60, on 9th ; Geo. Riddoch, S. Aus. pas-
toralist, 75, oh 10th ; ex-Governor Chelmsford,
49, on 12th: R. W. Foster, M.H.R., 61. on
20th; Mill Ogilvie, 48, ex-Bishop Pain of
Gippsland, 70, and Senator O’Keefe, 53, on
21st; Bigjohn Forrest, 70, on 22nd; G. T.
( formerl y of Federal Treasury), 65,'
on 23rd; Federal Minister Glynn, 62, on
2oth ; High Commissioner Andy Fisher’ 55
on 29th; Justice a’Beckett (Vic.), Si’ on
31st.
ARCHIBALD ST RONG, Hun-hater, sus-
pecting enemy influence (Vic.).
In spite of the war, we are, thank
Heaven, not neglecting the other big things
of life. The Law last week ordered the
Royal Arms to fade off the window’s, station-
ery and funeral-gear of a Sydney undertaker
whose father and predecessor in the business
had the honor of burying Governor Duff 22
years ago.
Like a lot of other hopeful people who
have lost relations in the war, Mrs. Parker,
sister of Kitchener, believes that her brother
is alive and a prisoner in Germany. Tnere are
the makings here of a legend like that of
King Arthur in Wales, or of the other hero
who sleeps in a forgotten cave in Monte-
negro. When things are at their worst these
saviours of their country are to return. If
Billy Hughes can’t win-the-war, the. Aus-
tralian of the future may be shaking in the
chains of some unimagined serfdom and
assuring his children that things will be all
right when Kitchener returns. Meanwhile,
if Mrs. Parker has any grounds for her
optimism, it’s a nice subject for guessing
who is sitting on the lost leader’s head to
keep him out of the fight.
The word “baronetcy” has been mentioned
at Melbourne Town Hall quite often of late,
during the whis-
perings in connec-
tion with David
Hennessy’s shot at
a sixth term in the
rabbit-skins. Well,
of course, some-
body has "to men-
tion it or there’d
be no baronetcies.
Provided that there
is enough money
behind the Great
Push, there seems to
be no reason why
David should not
hope, at least.
Finesse is a good
dawg in following
up this sort of
trail, but finance is
a better.
“GARRY”
ROBERTS, of the
Melbourne tram-
ways, guide, philo-
sopher and friend
of stray artists
and inky-wayfarers.
“Den” dedicated
the “Sentimental
Bloke ” to him and
his wife.
Never introduce your donah to a pal. Ex-
Premier Happy Jack Scaddan, wanting to
make things particularly unpleasant for his
successors, resigned his old go’dfield seat to
knock out one of the new Ministers when
the latter went to their constituents for re-
election. The pal kept John’s gold-
fields seat warm for him, and retired
when John was beaten. But John,
having since joined the “Nationalists,”
has now had to go up for election him-
self ; and his old goldfields donah has pre-
ferred the pal. So Jack is out of the Minis-
try and Parliament, too; but he will pro-
bably be given a job as secretary of the new
“Nationalist” Association.
A little of the glory and the sorrow of
France, in a personal note from The
Bulletin’s Queensland contributor “Karee” :
I’m back now in Blighty with gas and wounds,
and lucky to be alive when so many better men have
gone the long trail, including my two brothers and
Commandant do Tournouer, my father, whose 62
years could not (being undermined by 11 months
on the Verdun Front) withstand the after-effects of
an amputation. He died on Ist January—a soldier’s
death, anyhow, whereas his son is likely to finish in
a Victoria barracks job. Excuse my writing. One
of my eyes is mafeesh —and the other is in sym-
pathy with its mate ,to a certain extent.
Patrick Michael McGirr, N. S. Labor
M.L.A., just elected at the Macquarie by-
election, though only in the early forties looks
more like a successful publican than an ener-
getic and fairly prosperous man of dry
affairs. The eldest of the clan McGirr,
Patrick bore his share of early-family dis-
comforts, and until such time as his thrifty
old Scotch father could yoke together an
ancient horse and a milk-cart Paddy deliv-
ered the morning’s milk round Parkes
(N.S.W.) from two hand-cans. Hit-or-miss
Gregory McGirr, whip of the N. S. Wales
Labor party, is a younger brother.
From London :—•
Old Dr. Sam Thornton, who started wearing gaiters
as Bishop of Ballarat nearly half a century ago, is
still going strong. He turned up the other afternoon
at the annual meeting of the Australian League,
looking as fresh as a newly-ordained curate, and
proclaiming that he “loved Australia with its Garden
of Eden climate, which adds seven years to the span
of human life.” On appearances it added 17 to Dr.
Sam’s span and qualified him for centenarian honors.
This “Australian League” consists of a score or two
of philanthropic ladies who meet at five-o’clock tea
in one of the most fashionable West-end squares
to devise ways and means of saving the sundowner
from Old Nick. It was founded by Ladv Victoria
Buxton, the widow of S. Australia’s holiest Viceroy
and herself the most prayerful female that ever
spent brewery profits in an Australian Government
House.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
William Maddock, reputed to be the oldest book-
seller in Australia, has just passed out in his 83rd
year. I first knew him when I was in the trade myself
in 1859; he was then with George Robertson in
Collins-street, Melbourne. He had come from Man-
chester, arriving in company with Mr. Edwards, who
afterwards was a founder of the firm of Edwards,
Dunlop and Co. In the first ’sixties Mr. Robertson
decided upon extending to Sydney, and selected Mr.
Maddock as the pioneer. After a while the pioneer
bought the Sydney business and carried it on till
in 1896 he retired and undertook the management
of Dymock’s Library. This he conducted for 15
years, retiring a couple of years ago with good
wishes from all and gifts from many.
In tlie Vic. lists of Anzacs who have been
more than a thousand days on active service
is the name of Sergeant Kong Meng. This
is Herbert, a grazier of the Longwood dis-
trict —one of several of the old Chinese mer-
chant’s boys who have taken to sheep for a
living.
Enlisted at Newcastle (N.S.W.) Tlieo.
James Bradstreet, the chief character in
Alexander MacDonald’s book, “The Lost
Explorers.” Bradstreet, who has wandered
alj over Australia, prospecting—he has
crossed the continent twice—is known Out-
farback as “The Shadow”; and if he tells
as good yarns in the trenches as he does
around the trial shaft, the trenches will wel-
come him for more things than one.
From the gallery :
The new “Country” section of the Win-the-War
crowd isn’t an impressive lot. Probably the brightest
is Rodgers, the hefty young member for Wannon
(Vic.), beneath whose thick crust of self-assurance
there is genuine energy. Gregory, the sec., seems
lofty owing to the flatness of his surroundings.
Around him are Dicky Foster, a S. Aus. storekeeper
with a long experience in dull politics and a splen-
did barrage of whiskers. Livingstone, another hirsute
Soustralian, is a horse expert who always sounds like
a nicht wi’ Burns. There is the Bananaland crop of
whiskers—Corser, reverencing Sugar; and Sinclair,
adoring Cow. Nature imprinted Sinclair’s religion
on his round, honest face. Sidney Sampson is the
genial member of the party; and there are also
Piggott, A. C. Palmer and other rural representa-
tives, with not a scintillation among them.
“K.”: The late Colin Travers, who lost
his stripes in Egypt through giving the load
of beer a royal salute (B. 20/7/T7), was
only 15 when he landed on Gallipoli. His
fine sense of humor didn’t fail him even
when, as one of a hard-pressed post, he
pricked a big charging Turk in the wrist.
Abdul dropped his rifle, grabbed his injury
and set off howling for Constantinople.
Young Travers was standing on the parapet
shouting with laughter when there was a
crack overhead and shrapnel lashed his
wrist. Before he realised what .he was
doing he was going just as fast as the Turk.
When he did realise it he pulled himself up,
called a friend to enjoy the joke, and went
back to see the day out. Weeks later
another shrapnel bullet smashed a hole in
his skull, and he woke three months later in
H. P.
COLEBATCH,
Colonial
Secretary
(W.A.).
a hospital in England with a silver patch
oyer the break. One day it became dis-
placed and all was mentally dark for
awhile. But they fixed it up again, and he
came home to tell his yarns and be killed by
a horse in Suva.
Premier Holman, in his search for lime-
light, begins to look a little absurd. General
Holmes was killed while showing the distin-
guished tourist round the battle-field. Now
Holman turns up opportunely in Fi-ance to
present” the money collected by N. S.
Wales people and sent to that side of the
woidd. Having done that job he will go
back to London and resume the search fox-
borrowed money to send to this side of the
world.
A line from a Lindsay in Amerioa
tells of Percy Grainger’s enlistment in
army of Uncle Sam
destined for service
in France. The
golden-haired Aus-
tralian musician,
who looked like a
seraph when last
seen unshorn, went
to toot the ohoe in
a military band,
but with the strict
understanding that
when there was no
further use for
parade music he
was to play a rifle.
He was, when the
mail left, rapidly
mastering the lat-
ter ins t r u ment.
I 'ercy ha s kept
himself harder
than one would
judge from his
musical aifec t a-
tiims. A Melbourne
artist once rode in
a two-horse coacli
by the side of
which Grainger ran
10 solid miles for
the fun of the
thing.
DEAN HAY,
of Hobart.
Died on July 17, at Yamba (N.S.W.)
Russell Blaxland, second sou of the late
Charles Blaxland, of Ryde, aged 62 years.
This Charles Blaxland was the fourth son of
Gregory Blaxland, leader of the pioneer ex-
pedition over the Blue Mountains in 1813
Gregory planted the first vineyard in N. &
Wales from vines brought from the Cape
of Good Hope.
Flight-lieut. Rodney Vernon Franklin
accidentally killed in Egypt at 21, had a
proud record. Enlisting soon after the war
began, he was wounded at Gallipoli, and
then went to England with fever. As soon
as he was well enough he transferred to the
King’s Own Regiment, and, later, to the Fly-
ing Corps. He was twice wounded in air
engagements, and gained the French War
Cross and a recommendation for the Mili-
tary Cross. His health gave way last Christ-
inas, and it was only two months after
spending furlough with his parents in S.
Australia that the end came.
“Billy Blue” writes: —
Gone at last, Sarah, relict of Charles Bennett,
of the! ancient Sea Breeze Hotel, at Tom Ugly’s
Point (N.S.W.). In her early days she was one
of the beauties of Parramatta, and Sally Thomp-
son's charms were greatly admired by the Currency
lads of the day. In the early ’seventies she mar-
ried J. C. Bowden, who had been an inspector of
police. For some years they kept the Club House,
in Castlereagh-street. This had been built in the
early days of the century by the wealthy Thomas
Kite, a Bathurst squatter, as a town residence, and
was remarkable for two large Norfolk pines growing
in the front. One of these Sally and her husband
surrounded with a liquor bar, which had a great
vogue. Bowden died in 1887 and his widow married
George Bennett.
“F. 0.”: General Bethune, tipped as Ma
State’s next imported Governor, is fondly
remembered by those who served in S’Africa
with the sth Victorian Bushmen. Coming
from India and fresh to S’African warfare,
Bethune, with a column consisting mostly
of_ this regiment, camped one night at
Williamsrust, in the Eastern Transvaal. It
proved a Billjim’s rest for many. Benny Vil-
joen—please call that “Fillowen”—had been
hanging on Bethune’s flanks for two days,
sizing up the situation, for it was mid-
winter, and Benny and his commandoes had
scarce bite or a pair of breeks among
them. Following on his custom for the pre-
vious two or three days, Bethune did not
bring in his far-out day posts until night
had fallen. Benny noticed this, and fol-
lowed in behind—and the camp was over-
whelmed by a mad welter of galloping
horsemen, friend and foe inextricably min-
gled ! Though some of the Vies, threw them-
selves into a Kaffir kraal and held it gal-
lantly, the show was over in ten minutes,
and Benny and his Boers got away with
much-- welcome loot in the shape of horses,
food and clothing. One of the kraal party
was Lieut, (now Colonel) Maygar, V.C..
whom the writer met on the borders of
Palestine a month or two ago. The Vies,
held Bethune bitterly to blame, and some of
them certainly won’t call at Guv’ment
House.
A FAREWELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dim grows the distant ridge of grey
Beyond the waters’ restless heave;
And so Australia fades away—
The land that holds the love I leave!
The mist that rises is not rain ;
No cloud across the skyline moves;
Biit he must feel a stab of pain
Who says good-bye to all he loves.
The childish hands that held my knees
Had not the strength to keep me there;
I felt the call across the seas
Where Great Adventure lays its snare.
I tore myself from piteous lips,
Whose trembling pleading bade me stay,
Drew back my hands from friendship grips,
And, caring little, sailed away.
Sometimes the rushing course of life,
Its beating drums and bugle calls,
The martial harmony of strife,
Into an awesome silence falls;
And then are heard its softer notes
That louder tones have rendered vain,
Bringing the sorrow to our throats
With tender cadences of pain.
The cheers are done, the shouting dies;
Comes silence like a soft-toned hymn.
Australia like a far cloud lies,
And every minute grows more dim.
The far-spread fleet across the main
In stately order westward moves;
And he must feel a stab of pain
Who says good-bye to all he loves.
It is not that my spirits fail;
Adventure’s lure is still ahead;
My questing soul still seeks the grail
Of duty with no coward dread ;
I fear not death in lands afar
Or any evil that may come
To hurt my mortal flesh; but, ah!
My land, my children and my home!
Though with a bright and golden ray
Australia smiles its last farewell,
The mists it cannot drive away
That to the eyes in sorrow swell
And yet the love I leave has power
My fate and spirit to control,
And rising in my danger’s hour
Its prayers at least will arm my soul.
SOMEWHERE AT SEA.
HAMER.


K® LL-WOOL FABRICS are
Sp in keen demand to-day
simply because of the very
limited supply. For experience has
proved to the majority of men that
the all-wool standard not only en-
sures satisfactory wear in a suiting
material, but that be it Tweed,
Worsted or Serge there is certainty
in the color standing quality, .and a
good appearance that measures with
the long life of the fabric.
In Vicars Marrickville Tweeds and
other Woollen goods is found the
ALL-WOOL Standard at its best.
A wealth of pleasing weaves
and textures invites your choice
here, and an inspection free of
obligation to purchase is wel-
comed any day.
c
'■A.'
- - o
K
It
- : 't
''"'ll
Hi
■' t'-!i
it
H
H
;:■•
J:
■s' t
• :
®ii
ft
• : ,
(ft®
m
'*\i
w
\A
4
m
m
i
m.
£
A
,v
4
'A'
m
.^v
U
Mp
k
4
m
yS
»
V :
H
M
■s>
4.<4
W
!
V-
■¥' W '
\ o#s
'>r
as
#
Bs
%
? Js
-'*
4^
<?o*
5^
"v^/47.
5^
1
jat
Is
»V’
Sri-.
4“
(“V /*
to
4-'
■=• ••
4
n*
§g£
**s■
%
■«SE
'..y
»
tf?
M.
A
S=~
s>
V'.
-4
Austral Sac Suits to Measure
of VICARS MARRICKVILLE TWEEDS,
Warranted All Pure Wool,
85/-, 95/-, 105/-, 1151-, 126/-, 147/-
Country Customers send for Patterns. Carriage is paid on all Country Orders.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484-490 George St.,
and 304 George St.
3-17 Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY
(Near Hunter
Street),
“AUSTRAL” RUGS.
Made by Vicars of Marrickville.
The “Junior Bosker” will be welcomed as a Standard of
all-wool Rug quality and value. Measuring 70 x9O inches,
the “Junior Bosker” is not only attractive in appearance, but
will give thoroughly satisfactory service even the
roughest wear 30/-
The “Canberra” is a pure, all-merino-wool Rug, reversible
in check designs and colorings, which are mostly tones of
brown and fawn, with grey-green and blue over-patterns.
Size is 60 x 84 inches 42/-
The “Austral” is an extra-grade, all pure Australian merino-
wool Rug, full weight. Size 60 x 74 inches. Patterned on
one side only, the reverse being quite plain. The large
check overplaid patterns are most attractive, and the color-
ings include light and medium brown, fawn and slate
shades 6 °/‘


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD.
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL. SPELTER. ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES. containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:—-
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
AH enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsorme
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C, ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY —25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends
Profits on
(less Loss Pref. Writ- Added
on Assets Shares. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). (3 p.c.) Off. serves, serves.
Dec, ’10..£59.557 £31,760 £25,000 £2,797 £6,5.12
June, ’ll . . 58,804 31,760 30,000 3,506
Dec , ’ll. . 61,082 31,760 28,000 1,322 4,8-8
June, ’12.. 65.109 31,760 30,0001
£2OOO voted to Officers’ Provident !- 1,349 6,22 <
Fund I „ .
Dec, ’12.. 66,892 31,760 35,000 132 6,359
June. ’13.. 68.076 31,760 35,000 1,316 7,6,5
Dec., ’13.. 66,775 31,760 35,000 15 ',690
June, ’14.. 64,533 42.347 20,000 2,180 9,876
Dec, ’14.. 65,121 42,347 25,000 7,650
June. ’15.. 44,273 42,347 1,926 9,576
Dec., ’15.. 64,157 42,347 20,000 1,810 11,386
June, ’16.. 68,369 42,347 25,0001
.£3OOO voted to Officers’ Provident j- 9,408
Fund 1
Dec., ’16.. 70,323 42,347 30,000 —■ 7,384
June, ’17.. 64,370 42,347 20,000 2,023 9,407
This bank’s published accounts still carry
the scar left by the boom. “Capital,
£2,213,009, less estimated deficiency in con-
nection with the special Assets Trust Co.,
£677,660; net actual capital £1,535,849.”
Apparently there is no reason why it should
be called" an “estimated deficiency” any
longer. Until a year or so back the assets
included an item : “Remaining assets of old
bank, the value of which is estimated at
about” so and so. When the war started
these assets had been reduced to £32,000,
and the item has since disappeared alto-
gether. The Assets Trust worked indepen-
dently—nominally so, at any rate —but as the
bank had to make any losses good, for all
practical purposes they were one. Combin-
ing them thus the movement has been :
Pref. Writ- To
Dividend, ten Reduce
Profit. 3 p.c. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
£, £ £ £ £
Dec, 1910.. 66,035 31,700 5000 29,275 975.558
June, 1911.. 63,239 31,760 5000 26,479 949,079
Dec., 1911.. 61,991 31,760 5000 25,231 923,848
June, 1912.. 65,879 31,760 5000 ) 27 119 896 729
Provident Fund.. 2000 )^’ lxv ,
Dec 1912.. 67,088 31,760 5000 30,328 866,401
June, 1913.. 68,977 31,760 5000 32,217 834,184
Dec., 1913.. 67,144 31,760 5000 30,384 803,800
4 p.c.
June, 1914.. 80,062 42,347 5000 32,715 771,080
Dec., 1914.. 65.419 42,347 5000 18,072 753,013
June, 1915.. 44,273 42,347 1,926 751,087
Dec., 1915.. 64,160 42,347 5000 16,813 734,274
June, 1916.. 68,369 42,347 5000 ) ,q noo 716 252
Provident Fund .. 3000 L lB '
Dec., 1916.. 78,323 42,347 5000 30,976 685,276
June, 1917.. 64,370 42,347 5000 1, ,023 668,203
It will take a good many years to restore
capital; and what then? Unless there is a
reconstruction of some sort, the prefs. will
still be entitled to only 4 p.c., which will
leave them quoted at a discount in the stock
market; and though bank managements are
not supposed to consider the market, they
are supposed to consider anything and every-
thing that is calculated to affect the credit
of their institution ; and it does no bank any
good to have its shares quoted at less than
par. On the other hand, ordinaries will cer-
tainly want to be recompensed for their long
wait for dividends ; and as the ordinary capi-
tal is only £95,659, it would take a dividend
of about 25 p.c. to absorb even half the pro-
fit of the past year in excess of the maxi-
mum pref. dividend and the £lO,OOO written
off. But 25 p.c. divs. are so very unhealthy
nowadays that a Board would hardly dare
pay them. This may not be the best time to
re-arrange the eo.’s capital; but it will have
to be done sooner or later.
The various balance-sheet items compare
at given dates as follows: —
June, ’l4. June, ’l6. June, ’l7.
Notes .. .. £21,053 £52,383 £61,129
Bills, etc 868,826 783,820 311,053
Free deposits . . 3,912,537 3,953,888 4,520,046
Deposits at interest. 3,256,251 3,185,976 3,565,855
Old debts . . . . 56,601 32,666 Nil
Liquid assets . . 3,975,199 3,270,116 4,606,988
Advances . . . . 5.171,696 5,809,125 4,990,257
Old bank assets . . 32,000 13,366 Nil
Premises . . . . 420,635 455,230 447,940
So, on figures, the C. B. of A.’s position has
been materially strengthened since the war
started. Liquid assets are now £631,000
more; and it may be fairly said that that
amount is made up of £343,000 of the pub-
lic’s money (deposits, etc), £lBl.OOO called
in (reduced advances) and £107,000 of the
undivided profits. The most remarkable fea-
ture perhaps is the extraordinary increase in
the private current account money—from
£3,866,578 as at June, 1914, to £4,473,998.
That, of course, explains the large corres-
ponding increase of liquid assets. A small
part of this money is no doubt employed m
financing the war, being invested by the
bank in Commonwealth loans; but in the
aggregate it is not doing nearly as much in
this direction as it ought to be doing. Much
of it is idle and wasted at a time when we
can't afford to have any money idle. It is
no good reviling the bank. From the very
nature of the conditions on which the de-
posits are taken it dare not invest them.
Quite clearly there are millions in Australia
which investors don’t know what to do with
for the moment; and some plan ought to be
devised to employ this money temporarily.
The Bulletin believes that there are other
institutions and people that, though they
haven’t got the money to invest in war loans
at once, will have it within the next year,
two years, three years perhaps; and this at
present idle money might in some way be
made available to finance them and for no
other purpose. The Defence Department
has called in three experienced commercial
men to help knock its business affairs into
shape. Why not call in three experienced
financial men to give a hand at the
Treasury? #
The City Bank of Sydney:—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’09.. 7,055 3 p.c. = 6,000 1055 15,508
Dec., ’09.. 7,088 3 „ ~ 6,000 1088 16,596
June, ’lO.. 9,063 3£ „ „ 7,000 1000 1063 17,659
Dec., ’lO.. 10.130 4 „ „ 8,000 1000 1130 18,789
June, ’ll.. 10,047 4 „ „ 8,000 1000 1047 19,836
Dec., ’ll.. 11,059 4£ „ „ 9,000 1000 1059 20,895
June, ’12.. 13,102 5 „ ~10,000 1500 1602 22,49 i
Dec, ’12.. 15.120 5 „ ~10,000 1500 3620 26,117
June, ’13.. 15,586 5 „ ~10,000 4500 4086 30,203
Dec., ’13.. 15,947 6 „ ~12,000 1500 2447 32,650
June ’14.. 14,798 6 „ ~12,000 1000 1798 34,448
Dec.,’ ’14.. 15,009 6 „ „ 12,000 1000 2009 36,457
June, ’15.. 10,096 4 „ „ 8,000 2096 38,553
Dec., ’15.. 13,328 4 ~ „ 8,000 1000 4328 42,881
June, ’16.. 14,028 4 „ „ 8,000 1000 5028 47.909
Dec., ’16.. 14,230 4 ~ „ 8,000 1000 5230 53.139
June’, T 7. . 14,043 4 ~ „ 8,000 1000 5043 58,182
This bank has started on a new career. The
old g.m. waited till he had finished cleaning
up the old troubles; then he handed over to
a new chief. Now things are being modern-
ised. The head-office banking chamber was
a g6od deal like an elaborate tomb. It is a
miracle that any manager could have ever
felt cheerful enough in there to allow any
customer an overdraft. It is quite character-
istic of the changes that are occurring that
“a contract has been let for alterations, from
which great improvement in natural light-
ing, comfort to the staff and resultant economy
are expected.” Further, the Board has been
considering a pension scheme, “terms of
which have been formulated and handed to
an actuary for examination.” And that is
a good move, too. On the whole the banks
of Australia have not, in recent years
especially, made the profits that they should
have made, taking all things into account;
and it is Highly probable that this has been
due partly to the fact that banks, as a rule,
have not been able to attract and keep the
best business men. To do that the standard
of pay for the ordinary bank manager will
have to improve.
The City of Sydney suffered for very many
years from public doubt as to its real posi-
tion. It made the mistake of not writing
off old boom losses out of capital and have
done with it. The result was that it had
to struggle to make good these losses out of
profit; that is to say, it had to represent it-
self as doing far worse than it actually was
doing, in. order to wipe out the old hidden
deficit. • That meant a poor, unattractive
showing. Nevertheless, because a few influ-
ential people knew what was going on inside,
the bank has made a fair amount of progress.
Look back 10 years:—-
Liabilities.
June, ’O7. June, ’l6. June, 'l7.
Deposits, etc. . . c 1,233,382 £2,142,331 £2,164,671
Notes ~ . . 93,449 5,747 5,483
Assets.
Coin, etc. . . 359,737 550,975 649,239
Public securities .. 92,000 146,750 226,607
Advances .. .. 1,148,542 1,716,747 1,569,337
Premises .. ..‘ 144,596 190,515 192,123
But nothing very striking will be shown until
the management feels itself justified in pay-
ing a 6 or 7 p.c. dividend ; and that is not
anything outrageous to think of, because the
profits for the past five years have averaged
over 7 p.c. Not till that or something like it
has been paid for a few years will the public
be satisfied that the bank’s capital is intact
and that the figures in the balance-sheet
mean what they say. For many years
they plainly didn’t mean anything of the
sort. When the public is satisfied that all
is different now it will be a lot easier to
make profits.
But it would be a great mistake to pay
the increased dividend until it was fairly
clear that it could be maintained. It merely
resurrects nasty doubts when, after the divi-
dend has been steadily put up for years, there
is a sudden drop, as happened in 1915. And
because it is very difficult to see into the
future just now, no doubt the right course
is being followed in keeping the dividend
where it is. It was announced the other day
that the coming wool clip had been acquired
bv tbe British Government on the same terms
as the last. But it hasn’t been definitely
stated yet that poor harassed old John Bull
will pay cash for it whether he can get it
away or not. Can we reasonably expect him
to? ‘ If he doesn’t, what then? And even
if he does this extraordinarily generous thing
we can’t expect him or anybody else to pay
us for the other things that we cannot ship—
our wheat and our meat and our metals, in
that event, we are going to feel sick indeed ;
and it will depend very largely upon the
banks whether we shall pull through without
a bad smash. If they are in a position to
carry producers on for a while, until goods
can be marketed, it will be all right. Blit it
won’t be done without more rigid economy
than we have so far even begun to think
about. _
* * *
The Bank of Victoria: —
Dividends.
. , A-_ N Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1909.. 50,198 10.419 26,531 13,248 248,921
June, 1910.. 50,012 12,503 31,837 5,672 254.593
Dec 1910.. 52,097 12,503 31,837 7,<5/ 262,350
June, 1911.. 55.266 12.503 31,837 10,926 273,276
Dec 1911.. 58,829 12,503 31,837 14.489 287,<65
June 1912.. 61,685 12,503 31.837 17,345 305,110
Dec ’ 1912.. 67,073 12,503 31,837 22,733 327,843
June 1913.. 61.980 12,503 31,837 17,640 345,483
Dec 1913.. 61,972 12.503 31,837 17.632 363.11 a
June, 1914.. 64,567 12,503 31,837 20,227 383,342
5 p.c. 5 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 59,756 10,419 26,531 22,806 406,14 S
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
June 1915.. 52,646 31,837 8,306 414,454
Dec. 1915.. 52,660 12,503 31,837 8,320 422,774
June 1916.. 52,277 12,503 31,837 7,937 430,711
Dec., 1916. . 53,784 12,503 31,837 9,444 440,155
June, 1917.. 53,143 12,503 31,837 8,803 448,958
The Victoria has suffered during the last
couple of years from being shut out of the
other States ; for it is in N. S. Wales that,
for one reason and another, banking profits
have been lately most luscious. One of the
reasons, let it be added for the comfort of
Victoria, is that Ma State conditions have
been the most unhealthy: that is to say,
there lias been heavier public borrowing at
a time when the poorest value could be got
for the money. In any case, the Vic. would
probably not have joined with those other
banks which have shown larger profits since
this country got into its great difficulty. It
is much more likely to want to see the end
of the row before it makes up its mind how
it has been doing during the row. Hence, no
doubt, the reduction in the level of disclosed
profits.
On the balance-sheet figures there is no
reason why it shouldn’t have been doing as
well as it did just prior to June, 1914: —
Liabilities.
June, ’l4. June, ’l6. June, ’l7.
Notes in circulation. . £9,138 £7,426 £7,153
Bills, etc. . . . • 667,466 473,328 443,643
Deposits at interest.. 4,366,077 4,161,165 4,191,039
Free deposits . . 2,481,461 2,334,870 2,676,844
A ssf<ts.
Liquid assets .. 2,654,948 2,115,897 3,027,461
Advances . . . . 6,431,156 6,476,664 5,921,635
Premises, etc. . . 343,728 337,290 340,893
Advances certainly have shrunk a little ; but,
in view of high prices and the rather smaller
amount of public money for which the bank
is paying, six millions ought to be worth as
much to-day as 6| millions were in June,
1914. The whole of the reduction in ad-
vances has taken place during the past 12
months; and all this money, along with the
money that' has been added to customers’
credit balances, is represented by liquid
assets —mostly money at short call in Lon-
don, the result of the British purchase of
Australian wool and wheat. The largest
question ahead of us is how to finance Aus-
tralia during the period of isolation (or
thereabouts) from our usual markets. Mat-
ters are getting worse with regard to ship-
ping. and tney will become still worse as the
U.S.A. get further into the war, because
vessels which have hitherto been available
for us will be turned on to the Atlantic.
Britain may continue to buy our products
and leave them here indefinitely; but we
can’t reasonably ask or expect her to go on
doing this. The time, in fact, may come
when she will not be able to do it.
It is misleading to take the banks’ state-
ments of liquid assets and say that an easy
solution is there. The Victoria’s liquid assets
now are over three millions ; but an unknown
amount of that is money already lent to the
Government and represented by War Loan
stock and Commonwealth notes.' There ought
to be a conference of bankers and others to
decide how such resources as the banks have
can best be utilised. It isn’t at all certain,
for instance, that the best use the money can
be put to is in financing the production of
things that will have to be put in stores and
stacks to await shipment in the distant
future. It is quite possible that it could be
better employed in financing industries to
supply us with goods which we have hitherto
bought with our wool, wheat, meat and
metals. The position is, at any rate, so
serious that there should be an early’ ex-
change of views between the Government and
the banks; and to arrive at correct views
information which presumably the Govern-
ment has —which it certainly should have-
ought to be laid before the men who have
charge of the country’s private finance.
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- R e .
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves
J 904 .. it 12,200 10 p.c.= £2500 £9,700 £44,37r
1905.. 1,719 10 „„ 2500 43,59!
1906.. 6,408 10 „ „ 2000 3,908 47 503
1907.. 8,621 10 „„ 2500 6,121 53 B’4
1908.. 6,935 10 „ „ 2500 4,435 58*059
1909.. 7,322 10 ~ „ 2500 4,822 62 881
1910.. 10,168 10 „ „ 2500 7,668 70,540
1911.. 15,241 10 ~ ~ 50 0 0 1 0,24 1 80,790
1912.. 14,344 10 ~ „ 5000 9,344 90,134
June,
1914.. 21,427 10 „„ 7500 13,927 104,061
1915.. 14,290 10 „„ 5000 9,290 113,351
1916.. 43,381 10 „„ 5000 ) ,
Written off .. 2500 j ’ 8 119,232
1917.. 16,316 10p.c. = 5000 ) „„„
Written off .. 2261 f y,Uo& 128,28,
The £16,316 shown as the year’s profit is
subject to this remark: that £3415 of it is
profit transferred to commission reserved
account, and therefore probably not wholly
earned during this period. A trustee eo.’s
commissions for work done as executor are
double-barrelled: 1 to 2£ p.c. on the capital
value, usually collected from the estate by
instalments spread over three or four years';
and 21 to 5 p.c. on the income, the percent-
age depending on its amount and source. It
frequently happens that the 21 to 5 p.c. on
the income doesn’t pay exes.; so, instead of
at once reckoning the whole commission on
the capital value as divisible income, the co.
reserves portion of it to assist future earn-
ings. This reserved commission account
stands now at £43,857 ; and with some hesi-
tation this is included with the reserves.
The co. came into existence just 30 years
ago. Until about that time Australia had
not considered the possibilities of a trustee co.
From its very nature such a co. could not ex-
pect to make'rapid progress in its early years.
But, on the whole, the cos. have been so well
managed and the advantages of accepting
their services have been so convincingly put
forward, that their figures are now growing
much faster. It was just over 20 years
before the co. had its first 61 millions of
trust funds under administration; it took
less than 10 years to add another 61 millions.
The present total is £13,102,290. The
co. doesn’t guarantee the principal or
interest of this money. But it does
guarantee that a testator’s instructions will
he followed; and its paid capital (£50,000),
its uncalled capital (£950,000) and its re-
serves stand behind that guarantee. And
something more even that that; all its hopes
of future business and profit depend upon
the way it serves its clients. What the
people inside think of the service rendered
is pretty clearly indicated by the fact that
every one of six directors who have died
since the co. was formed has appointed the
co. his executor “on the same terms as are
available to the public.”
The co.’s own funds are invested in a
Treasury deposit. £20,000; office premises.
£116,017; mortgages, £14,173; and war loan
and sundries, £31,938. There are no liabili-
ties beyond outstanding accounts for pen-
wipers and doormats, etc., £1342. Of the
amount shown as written off last year £2OOO
is applied to write down the new premises
to £116.017. “Tenants have been secured at
satisfactory rentals,” the directors say, “for
the whole' of the accommodation available
for letting.”
Robert Harper and Co. (Melb.), whole-
sale drygoods merchants: —
Reserves
(assets
Dividends. include
a £BO,OOO
“A” “B” of
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- good-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. 6 p.c. 44 p.c. serves, will).
1914.. £ 17.054 £1671 £14,400 £291 £722 £7,638
Unexplained net additions .. 4692 12,330
7 p.c. 51 p.c.
1915.. 29.380 8,400 16,800 340 3840 16,L0
Written off, £3955 12,215
, 8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1916.. 42.349 8400 19.200 496)
N oted to Employees’Profit Sliar-J-4253 16,468
ing Fund, £10,000.. . J
7 p.c. 5J p.c.
1917.. 29,838 8400 16,800 434 4204 20,672
The 7 p.e. cumulative prefs. were offered to
the public, and were snapped by the early
birds who were looking for nice fat digestible
worms: the ordinaries went to the proprie-
tors of the business, which had then been in
existence very nearly 50 years. As the. table
shows, the vendors valued the goodwill at
£BO.OOO, and there were a few hundreds
represented by other v intangible items like
trade marks. These latter have since been
written off: in the table the amount repre-
sented by them has been deducted from the
unexplained additions to reserves in 1915-
The position now is that £59.328 of the capi-
tal is unrepresented by tangible assets; hut
there is no doubt, of course, that any one
of the five branches (the co. works in every
mainland State) could be sold for a con-
sklerable amount. In any case it doesnt
matter very much what value was put on
goodwill, because the capital put up by the


£12,500,000.
The Trust Funds under the control of
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
exceed this' figure, thus showing the
confidence in which it is held by the
public.
This Company offers dis-
tinct advantages over the
Private Trustee.
Write for Booklet setting
out particulars of its
Methods and Charges.
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
I!. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROLATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 IS 4
Dpriuet Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. .. 25, 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. .. £27 5 11
/£*«
Insure in
Tt “ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
I'WllUaM?;-"
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,165 6 6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
ACENTS WANTED.
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\Y. R. CAVE, General Manager.
263 George Street. Sydney.
Type “H” Transformers are recognised the world
over as the standard' in transformer manufacture.
Their qualities of high efficacy, low heating and good
regulation, consistent with long life, have won for
them world established popularity. The Australian
General Electric Company, Sydney and Melbourne,
will be pleased to point out to the best advantage a
few of the important features of the type “H” trans-
former, of which one year's output amounts to over
1,000,000 k.v.a. —Advt.
“Actions speak louder than words,” says the old
proverb, and it is certainly true. The Government
of Western Australia, after exhaustive tests, selected
Adamax Roofing for use cn the Wyndham Freezing-
Works on the North-west Coast. The N.S.W. Govt.
Railways accepted Adamax tenders for the present
year; the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Commission
adopted Adamax Roofing for their large Leeton can-
ning factory; the Sydney Harbor Trust for their
large Miller’s Point wharf shed. Adamax Asphal-
tum roofing is only one-third the price of iron, and
also one-third less for railage or steamer freight.
Send for free booket and samples to sole agents,
William Adams and Co. - Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.— Advt.
* * * *
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Ilardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Advt. [ 1
Pioneer Wood' Pipe has. made a name for itself.
It has proved to be the finest pressure pipe, as well
as the most efficient conduit for all kinds of fluids,
hot or cold. Pioneer Wood Pipe is the cheapest
satisfactory piping to buy. Send for illustrated cata-
logue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited,
(H.O.) 57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to all
State Governments. Factories: Lane Cove River,
N.S.W. ; Footscray, Yic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
—Advt.
If scheming out new buildings or alterations, re-
member that Asbestolite stands unequalled for
economy, handiness and completness. All sizes
stocked up to 10 x 4. Booklet free. Spriggs’
Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt. [3
# * ♦ *
Havj? You an. Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and ITassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Denby Motor Lorries. selected as the best by
America’s postal officials. An inscription on the
New York Post Office reads: “Neither snow nor rain
nor heat nor gloom of night stay's these couriers
from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.”
And the “Denby” does it! Several 21-ton models
from Australian stocks. Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
head office: The Quay, Sydney. Australian Machinery
Co. Ltd., 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 4§3 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * # *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
llequisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. If. R.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
JJIOR IMMEDIATE SALE.
MOUNT MILLER
MANGANESE MINE.
BEECHER,
Boyne Valley Line,
Queensland, Australia.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
T HE Walshaw’ Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
public was all preference, and the higher the
valuation of goodwill the lower the rate of
dividend possible on ordinaries. But look-
ing to the future, something is certainly to
be gained by including goodwill among the
assets represented by capital. In these days
the rate of dividend is watched, and when it
goes beyond 8 p.c. or 10 p.c. there is a dis-
position in various quarters to demand a cut.
The inflation of capital by the inclusion
of something to represent goodwill tends to
keep the rate down.
Profits thus far have been, on the whole,
rather disappointing. The surplus for the
past year is no doubt governed pretty largely
by the provision which has been made for
taxation. Federal and State. Assuming,
however, that this provision is no more than
enough to meet the bill, then it is obvious
that, though prices are rising against the
consumer, it is not every dealer who is
making increased profits. The directors put
it this way :
The year 1916-17 was a difficult one, owing to the
unsettled conditions arising from the war. Increased
freights and great scarcity of tonnage, apart from
high prices at port of shipment, have steadily en-
hanced the value of nearly every line in which the co.
is interested, and with constantly increasing costs
it has been difficult to realise adequate prices.
A further consequence of high prices is an
increase in the stock-in-trade from £140,281
to £196,529; and that, again, is mainly re-
sponsible for swelling the liabilities from
£192,000 to £242,000. The stock is taken in
“at not exceeding cost” ; and. though there is
very little likelihood of an early fall in
prices, there is always a certain amount of
risk in connection with a heavy stock bought
in an abnormally high market. In addition
to the stock the co. has £119,251 in free-
holds, £90,806 in plant, £143,928 in book
debts, and a shade over £lO,OOO in sundries.
On these figures, and especially taking the
large amount of outside money at risk in the
business, the year’s profits are distinctly lean.
* * * *
Theatre Koyal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-
ten To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, ’10..£1429 2\ p.c. = £6OO £9OOO £262
Dec., ’lO.. 1616 2* „ „ 600 £lOl6 1278
June, ’ll.. 777 2J ~ ~ 600 177 1455
Dec., ’ll.. 1709 2* „ „ 600 706 403 1858
June, ’12.. 1100 24 ~ ~ 600 350 150 2008
Deficit.
Dec., ’12.. 1096 2* „ „ 600 2650 146
Reserves.
June, ’13.. 1580 21 ~ „ 600 486 494 348
Dec., ’IS.. 1775 2* „ ~ 600 S9l 284 632
June, ’14.. 1539 2* ~ „ 600 450 489 1121
Dec., ’14.. 1423 2* ~ ~ 600 450 373 1494
June, ’15.. 1447 2* ~ ~ 600 450 397 1891
Dec., ’15.. 1799 3f ~ ~ 900 450 ' 449 2340
June, ’16.. 1315 3IJ ~ ~ 900 300 115 2455
Dec., ’16.. 1507 33 „ ~ 900 300 307 2762
June, ’17.. 1472 3$ „ „ 900 300 272 3034
We’ll go back to .Tune, 1910, and look at the
results from another point of view :
June, 1910. June, 1917.
Assets other than buildings,
freeholds, plant, etc. .. £338 £B2lB
Less liabilities .. .. 606 822
Excess liabilities .. £ 268 —-
Surplus assets .. £7396
So the co. has been putting by about £lOOO
a year towards repaying the capital repre-
sented by leasehold and buildings on lease-
hold : together these now stand at £32,000,
and the lease still has 30-odd years to run.
Certainly during only portion of the seven
years has the present 3f p.c. dividend been
paid ; in the early part it was only 2| p.c.,
and the average lay-by since the 3f p.c. was
paid has been a good deal under £3OOO. On
the other hand, the terms of the lease will
presently be more favorable to the co. And
no doubt they need to be, because in the end,
unless the co. got a renewal of the lease,
some of its other assets probably wouldn’t
be worth much. In other words, it will be
necessary for the co. to have accumulated an
amount pretty well equal to the entire capi-
tal (£48,000) by the time the lease expires.
On present appearances, it should be easily
able to do it. What interest could be paid
meanwhile is more of a gamble.
* * * *
B. 11. Junction North, the co. that is
always just going to do something extra-
special, threw in a shilling-call notice the
other day. It is the Associated Smelters
that are to blame this time. “So far we
have had no final account from the Smelters
for concentrate delivered over a year ago.”
* * * *
"Grumpy”: 8.11. Junction North directors,
through their chairman, Mr. J. S. Palmer,
again address their shareholders bv circular,
explaining the necessity of a further call of
Is., notwithstanding that production has
almost doubled since King reported in No-
vember last. Shareholders are entitled to
ask why, seeing that at the end of March last
£lB,OOO was shown in hand and shareholders
were assured good profits were, being made.
Is it a fact that opening the mine has swal-
lowed all profits and that it still cries for
more? The chairman’s statement that only
small advances have been received must be
discounted, as it is common knowledge that
advances are made at the rate, of £2o per
ton on lead and 2s. per oz. on silver, as per
last report, and if Junction North can’t make
a profit with these figures, what are the pro-
spects with metals at normal figures? Some-
thing more definite should be given than the
vague statements as to money locked up : also
a reason for the non-receipt of final accounts
from the Associated Smelters. A dividend
was hinted, at last half-yearly meeting, and
lead and silver have maintained their price
since. Why, then, this unaccountable de-
mand on shareholders?
From the sec. of the London Metal Bank-
ing Co., London: —-
Re Gulf Creek Mine. I have read your remarks
(B. 25/3/’l7), and observe that you state “the mine
formerly belonged to a strong German co.” I would
beg to point out that the mine has always belonged
to this co., through its nominee, Mr. Max Gorier, of
Melbourne, and never was in the possession of a
“strong German” or any other company.
Lloyd Copper, Burraga (N.S.W.), is hav-
ing a rough passage. It resumed work a
while back, but has had to partly shut
down for a month or so because of scarcity
of fuel. The furnaces are kept going with
timber from the surrounding bush country,
but the cutters have been unable to keep up
supplies to the depots along the co.’s tram-
line. So a few weeks are being allowed for
them to make up leeway. The works were
just getting a nice swing on and motor ser-
vices had been established from Bathurst.
Now the motors are busy coping with the
exodus. The co. has a fully issued £280,000
in pound shares. No div. has been landed
since March, 1907, when a shilling was
paid.
Still another instance of the old thing:—
For the past fortnight [at the C.S.A., Cobar]
furnace in blast only 9. days 14 hours. Stoppages
due to engine-drivers refusing to work at Award
rates.
The next fortnight:—
Owing to labor troubles the furnace was in blast
only one day 21 hours.
Industry in this country is in exactly the
same position as Belgium was before the
war. The employer has a scrap of paper,
and if he relies upon it he falls in the soup.
n * * *
Sparring for wind is going on at Cohen’s
Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.). Already the
show r has sucked in £O2lB of calls for mining
and plant and shows only a few' piffling crush-
ings. “Circumstances” —whatever that may
mean —kept the co. from acquiring Hannans
and party’s block of the old Long Tunnel
mine, so the manager has had to grope round
Goodwin’s shaft, in the co.’s own two tunnels
and elsewhere to rake up a bit of gold. At
the moment this job is about as tough as
John Forrest’s contract to square the Fed-
eral ledger w'itliout pinching the Ministry’s
profiteering friends too hard.
Out of 385.507 tons Birthday Tunnel. Ber-
ringa (Vic.), has won 312,0000 z. gold and
squeezed £68,000 out in divs. Most of the
profits were divided before Justice Hig-
gins gave a 50 p.c. higher wage to the Vic-
torian miner. At depth the Tunnel has got
into the poor stuff that killed the original
Birthday, so it has been casting about for a
new shoot untouched by the old workings. The
big job under way is the long crosscut, which
is being driven east from No. 2 shaft. So
far only a few veins of poverty-stricken quartz
have been got in 746 ft. of crosscutting, but
the drills are still hammering away to ascer-
tain if a decent shoot lives below the surface
outcrops. More cheery is the outlook at_the
new prospecting shaft sunk to test a make
of stone on which work was chucked up
years back. A crosscut w'est at 80ft. got;, on
to 4ft. of nice-looking quartz. This is re-
ported to be 4dwt. stuff, but the hue and cry
after shares -at Ballarat points to a higher
average.
At 80ft. from Lansell’s 180 boundary tbe
Central Ited. White and Blue (Bendigo) has
25ft. of solid quartz. This lies in the cap
over the 218 ft. intermediate; and nearer the
shaft, at 318 ft., tributors are netting profits
out of 10 to 20 dw't. stone. The mine’s repu-
tation as a good dividend-payer has brought
in the greedy buyer, but it needs a lot of
faith to see 40s. in sight in the upper levels.
Many people are hanging off profit-taking
because things look decidedly promising in
the 1720 ft. crosscut. Here spurs show, and
if a color or two of gold should be seen the
bears will have a hot time. Away south,
Red, White and Blue Extended is crosscut-
ting at 960 ft. The locals haven’t a doubt
that the reef will be got. If so all the ele-
ments exist for a lively jig in southern Blue
interests.
* * * *
Wails about labor, high price of supplies
and floods don’t hide the cold fact that A 1
Gaffney’s (Vic.) hasn’t the same old plum-
pudding dirt. In the last six months 5745 tons
went 12dwt., but as less than 1000 tons instead
of the old 1400 tons could be got to the bat-
tery monthly, costs soared and profits eased.
Divs. dropped from 6s. for the half-year to
35.. and John Till’s scanty report doesn’t
point to better days. The job he should be
set is to make up a statement of ore reserves
and values. When he gets the hoist shaft
linked up with the main shaft workings, Till
will have a chance of testing the northern
end of the big dyke basin in which the A 1
is mining. This prospecting shouldn’t be
hung up, as experience in mountain mining
at Woods Point is that to stop development
is to commit suicide.
* * * •*
There is a probability of the Lake Boga
(Vic.) brine springs being turned to better
account. For 30 years past a six-acre area
there has been worked by pumping and evap-
orating the brine, and has, it is said, yielded
a pretty regular 500 tons of crude salt p.a.,
which has been sold in Bendigo and the
northern districts. The idea now is to spend
about £2550 in putting up a vacuum plant,
with another £lOOO or so on a plant to pro-
duce plaster of paris, the raw material for
which (gypsum) overlies the brine. They
reckon this plant equal to a weekly produc-
tion of 50 tons of salt and 12 tons of plaster
of paris, each at a cost of about 455. per ton.
Lake Boga brine is not very rich : it usually
carries 151 b. to 201 b. solids per 10 gallons,
101 b. or 151 b. being ordinary salt, lib. or
141 b. Epsom salts and the balance mag-
nesium chloride, etc. This is not much more
than half the salt contents of some English
brines. But it is very pure and very handy.
What quantity there is of it is of course
unknown. In . boring three “springs” have
been passed through—at 6ft., 25ft. and 55ft.
—and the brine from the last rose to the top
of the bore. There is probably rock-salt
underneath.
* * * #
Meekatharra (W.A.) has been stimulated
by the discovery at depth of a good-looking-
ore body in the Ingliston Consols. The field
badly needs shaking-up; what with the
shutting down of the Queen of the Hills,
Ingliston Extended and other one-time regu-
lar producers, and inability of
the Commodore and two or three more to
justify official reports, Meekatharra has had
a rough passage during the past year. Last
month a yarn was spread that the workings
in the Fenian had encroached at more than
one level on Ingliston Consols ground, and
that a considerable sum of money would have
to be paid over to the owners of the latter-
show for ore extracted. According to latest
reports the argument threatens to become
expensive with the aid of the Law.
* * * *
Black Range West (W.A.) has acquired
Hans Irvine’s cast-off at Sandstone from the
Black Range Pinnacles. The West adjoins
its new purchase, and as the workings of
the latter are the deepest it is probable that
all future development at depth will be
carried on from there. Since the Black
Range Co. moved on to the Pinnacles a
number of good crushings have been taken
out of its former place of abode at Sand-
stone ; so the Black Range West has hopes.
* * * *
Leonora Gold Blocks is proving to be the
overvalued venture The Bulletin said it
was. gome of the optimists behind it even now
believe that “with careful management and
systematic development things will right
themselves before long.” But careful man-
agement and systematic development won’t
produce profits if the gold isn’t there.
Considering the labor shortage and in-
creased cost of supplies Sons of Gwalia
(W.A.) can claim to have done well last
year. Receipts totalled £232,924 and profits
amounted to £39,890. Dividends aggregating
2s fid. absorbed ±40,625. The mining posi-
tion is described as quite good, development
having more than kept pace with the mill
and put slightly lower ore reserves nearly
44 years ahead of it.
* * * *
Nullagine (W.A.) has secured a new lot
of hands from Emmaville, New England dis-
trict (N.S.W.), and expects to resume sluic-
ing this week. This time explosives are to
be sparingly used on hard portions of the
wash to aid sluicing, and profits are ex-
pected shortly.
Riverina South (W.A.) expects to have
its own battery going some time in Septem-
ber. Meantime, local shareholders are bit-
terly complaining about past extravagance,
and declare that, despite the big amount
already spent on the property, it is still very
backward in the matter of development.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance is between the Devil
and the deep sea. For months expenses have
exceeded receipts, * and unless in its blind-
stabbing efforts it digs into a rich patch,
there is not much hope for the co. The mine
would be closed down until labor was better
and supplies cheaper but for the fact that it
would cost more to keep workings dry,
observe labor conditions and generally look
after the show than the co. is now out of
pocket by continuing work. The adjoining
Associated and Lake View and Star are
almost in a similar plight; while only an
occasional discovery of a patch of rich tellu-
ride saves the neighboring Kalgurli and
South Kalgurli.
Blair Athol Coal (Q.) has declared a div.
of 9d. per share (£3750), which follows a
sixpenny in June. The output has increased
considerably; and the rise in price of steam
coal has livened the trade of this little inland
field. The parent co. has three shafts and
the coal has been opened up to sustain an
increased output. The Government is the
largest customer —for the Central railway
that runs out to Longreach. Blair Athol’s
most active local competitor is_tbe adjacent
Newcastle co., which raised 5100 tons of
excellent coal in May; Blair Athol raised
6037 tons. The new shaft sunk at the New-
castle is only 173ft. deep, yet it has found
Gift, of coal. Still more interesting is the
Co-operative Colliery, which has a seam 35ft.
thick underlying an overburden of 42ft. It
is now proposed to strip the overburden with
steam shovels and work the coal seam on
the open-cut system.
* * * *
“R.B.” : Re S. Aus. oil prospects. The
Robe well makes Dr. Wade look like two
cents. He said 21 years ago that the marine
tertiary beds in the south-east of S.A., then
about to be explored with the drill, were but
“a thin sheet covering an older landscape.”
The “thin sheet” has been shown by the S.A.
Co.’s well to be 4400ft. thick and still per-
sisting. As to not striking oil, I prefer to
take the co.’s reports and Tom Whaley’s re-
ports thereon as the more feasible explana-
tion. The co. was often drilling in a column
of water 2000ft. and more deep, yet oil
scums and gas brashes were persisting
through it, and Whaley said that U.S. ex-
perience had shown that a column of water
500ft. deep could hold down a 500 barrel-a-
day well.


Charles
Hei dsieckS
Vintage 1906
Gl/MPM
lit PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
ALLAN’S
DANCE
ALBUM
CONTAINS:
‘THE SECRET” —Waltz Hampton Wood
‘ FAIR ITALY” Varsovianna G. Fetras
‘FLASH JACK” Polka J. Rolfe
LOVE’S MESSAGE Waltz G. Kingsley
‘ PHANTOM BRIGADE” One Step Clark
‘FORTY WINKS Schottische A.Jones
‘BR IV 3 WARiUORS”March H.Kendall
WHISTLING JIM” Dance Characteristic
Harold Lindsay
' SUNNY AUSTRALIA’’WaItz T. Andrews
‘ GLORIOUS VICTORY” Two-Step
S. Wallace
‘ VERDI WALTZ ” Waltz A. Williams
‘ SONGS OF ANZAC” Lancers A. Adam
Sold by all Music Sellers.
Price,. 1/3 ; posted, 1/5
Violin Part, 1/3; Cornet Part, 1/8
HOW DRUGS DELUDE DYSPEPTICS.
A MENACE TO HEALTH.
Dyspeptics who take drugs commit a crime
against their health, for drugs do not cure
dyspepsia, neither do they possess the power
to neutralise acid in the stomach, which is
the underlying cause of most forms of diges-
tive and stomach trouble. Drugs may appear
to give relief in some cases of indigestion
and dyspepsia, but that is because they numb
the nerves of the stomach and render them
insensible to pain. Herein lies the chief
danger; the symptoms of the trouble are
covered up and hidden, while the cause of
the trouble—that is, the acid in the stomach
—remains as active and as dangerous as ever,
and may in course of time cause gastric
ulcers to form.
Physicians have demonstrated over and
over again that the stomach cannot regain
strength or the digestive organs recover
their power to function normally unless kept
free from irritant acid, and this can be
achieved with safety and certainty by taking
half a teaspoonful of bisura-ted magnesia in
a little water immediately after every meal.
It can be relied upon to neutralise acid and
prevent fermentation of the food.
This method is now being employed by
hospitals throughout the country with marked
success, and we are sure the recipe will
prove valuable to many of our readers. No
difficulty should be experienced in obtaining
the bisurated magnesia, for it is stocked by
high-class chemists everywhere, but make
sure that you get the bisurated form of mag-
nesia, for the oxides, sulphates and citrates
are quite unsuitable.— Advt.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <a CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
(a, CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
1906
PAULINE et CIE
announce the
opening of their
Spring and Summer Show
On MONDAY, AUGUST 6, a. their Room.,
_ Floor, Denison House Chambers, George Street, Sydney*
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, July 30, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
The worst is to happen. Spring frocks
have the maddening hooks-and-eyes that are
supposed to fasten, invisibly, down the back.
They seldom do, of course. The woman
inside the frock is at the mercy of her
fellow creatures, and even well-brought-up
husbands are not to be depended on as dress-
fasteners. (One ventures this at random, of
course, and merely judging by the backs
agape a few years ago.)
Government House is a tomb of silence
these days, though the Cullens occasionally
week-end in the old home. Not a word oozes
through the walls as to a new sub-royalty.
Wattle Day falls on August 1, and will
be behind you before the post brings this.
These are strenuous days, so the N.S.W.
Wattle Leaguers are going to look the other
way when the golden fluff is sold to help the
Kindergarten people. But as for itself, the
League will cling hard to its rule that com-
merce mustn’t creep in. The French won’t
allow their National Day to be the peg on
which barter is hung; and J. H. Maiden, one
of the League founders, believes the same
sentiment will surround Wattle Day in the
years to come.
Chief Justice Richards, of India, takes his
family off to Bananaland to have a look at
blue summer skies and pineapples. His
Honor is not, thanks be! of the club-window
type of traveller, who sees the Botanic
Gardens from Macquarie-street and then
writes volumes about Australia’s native
tribes.
Engagement of Mr. Walter Watt (relative
of Oswald the flier and Ernest the often-
married) was sensation enough to stop the
knitting for at least 10 minutes last week.
Bride-elect is Miss Eileen O’Brien, daughter
of a solicitor at Yass. She’s a handsome girl
not yet out of her twenties, whilst “Wally”
Watt had been given up by man-trapping
mamas as hopelessly elusive far back in the
last century. A short time ago Miss Kathleen
O’Brien, a sister of the future Mrs. Watt,
was wedded, to a Queenslander named
Ivilgorn, and at the ceremony his friend and
contemporary, Watt, best-manned him.
Eileen was bridesmaid and another wedding
was inevitable. Even ordinary men are get-
ting _ frightfully scarce, and distinguished-
looking, wealthy ones never were numerous.
When Mrs. Vernon’s Ist Light Horse-
women, aided by the 4th D.A.C. dames, got
their tents up on Bellevue Hill on Saturday,
the gale blew them down. It was the morn-
ing’s gamble with the westerly in Mrs. Clar-
ence White’s big gardens. By the afternoon
all hands had the tarpaulins upright again
and firmly pegged on the sheltered knoll
lower down. One of the features of the fffte
was the butchery stall. But no one trod on
the feelings of the dainty butcherinas by
demanding half a pound o’ chops. The goods
sold without a blow from the axe. James
Burns, knight, with a spray of heather in
his coat, was surrounded by raiders. But
the Scot held his own. Over £3OO was
counted at the finish.
Mrs. Plomley is on her way home via
Panama. A daughter recently married
Lieut. Edgar Hugh Wickham, of Clifton,
near Bristol, and mother went to London to
give her away. The bridesmaids were Ethel
Wickham and Evelyn Spencer Brunton, of
this city. A crowd of N. S. Wales folk,
Mrs. Lassetter, Mrs. David Anderson, the
Harry Gulletts (Mrs. Barbara Baynton lent
her place for the after-revels) and others
were in the party.
When Dr. Mary Booth asked the State
War Council, or some such august body, to
allow a repetition of the 1915 Violet Day
in aid of the Soldiers’ Club, she was told :
“No more days.” Since then we have had
Triangle Day and the great rally for France;
this week we have a sale of wattle for the
Free Kindergarten Fund; and the War
Chest announces a day in September. And
so it goes on. The violet season will soon
be on the wane. It takes two or three
weeks to organise a city and suburban flower-
sale. The Soldiers’ Club has not made an
appeal for two years. Who will give the
State War Council the necessary prod?
Just back from playing at Melba’s concert
in Melbourne, John Lemmone chats of the
Australian voice. There’s a girl behind it,
generally speaking. “At the Albert-street
Conservatorium,” says the Flute Wizard,
“there are at least half a dozen youngsters
who will be quite as good as Stella Power—
and she has a big future.” After Me.ba s
concert in Sydney on August 28 the majestic
songbird flits to U.S.A. There’s to he grand
opera in the States—a winter season and
our sovereign voice is to head the hill.
There is mourning in the picturesque
home at Warrawee for Mr. Harry Wilson,
ope of the heads of the Fresh Food and Ice
Co. His death last week, after an operation,
robs a widow and two daughters—one a
B.A. of Sydney ’Varsity—of a genial ray of
sunshine.
Mrs. Edgeworth David and Miss David
have at last reached Europe, and. were at
latest in Edinburgh, with Mrs. David’s elder
daughter, Mrs. Macintyre, whose husband is
at flie Front. The Davids left Sydney, via
Vancouver, on hearing of the Professor’s
accident at the Front, but were blocked in
Canada for some months.
Here is W. G. Lay-
ton, Deputy Town
Clerk of Sydney, a
strong member of the
Kindergarten Union
executive and official
in charge (under the
City Council) of the
administration of
parks. In this tri-
angle formation he
attacked the City
Council some months
ago. The opening
last week of a shady
playground in Moore
Park for the children
of mean streets is
the result. “We are
not taking away
from the people the
little slice we give to the youngsters. Rather
do we give. We attract the babies from the
back lane, and the doubtful pleasures of mud
pies made in the gutter pale before the castles
built of sand under the shade of trees. And
we are sure the better environment will
mean better citizens.” So Layton set out to
provide, here and there, Kindergarten play-
grounds. The City Council is now converted
to the scheme, and is giving still another
acre for the children’s very own —this time
in Prince Alfred Park.
Having solemnly sat on the Public Health
for some days, the Congress which has made
this burden for its back relaxed its labors
and nibbled sandwiches in the Mayor’s par-
lor at the Town Hall. Tea-tables were
abloom with roses—this winter’s crops has
been thin but very fine —and the room was
too mild for the well-furred. The clatter of
china ceased when president Molesworth
mentioned that oil and water would not mix,
but they, the watchdogs of public health,
would be the caustic soda to make it into
soap. So there are frequent washings to
come. The man from Lancashire —he’s:
been an Australian citizen for 30 years—
then expressed regret at the absence-of J. D.
Fitzgerald, the N. S. Wales Minister who
has made hygiene a hobby, and is now look-
ing after his own poor health in Victoria.
Between talks, Randal Woodhouse’s silvery
tenor held the company in thrall; Mary
Bourke warbled songs of sentiment; and
Ernest Truman, at the piano, added to the
harmony.
The button sold this week to help the
Kindergarten Union is all blue, like Aus-
tralian skies, with a pretty kiddy’s golden
head in the centre.
After Hanbury Davies had handed
daughter Gwen to F. 11. Greig, of Bombay—
it happened in St. Mark’s Church —the party
moved on to the Langer Owens’ house at
Woollahra. Jonquils, the flower of the
moment, sent their exotic scent over the tall
white lilies that also decked the proceedings.
The new Mrs. Greig wore a white coat and
skirt topped with straw millinery, with a
trail of orange blossoms round the crown.
Molly Merivale was the bridesmaiden. As
a subtle compliment to Hanbury Davies pere
—president of the N.S.W. Red Cross when
the war first shook it into substance
—the wedding cake was brewed in the Ash-
street V.A.D. kitchen.
An Australian who recently met Mrs.
Derwent Wood —she was singer Florence
Schmidt before she married the sculptor—
says this songbird’s trills are now for patri-
otic shows only. Her boy is 12 —how the
summers fly !—and at Eton. Wood, you’ll
remember, invented face-masks for brave
men who’ve been battered in action. At
least one of our returned warriors -wears the
helpful visor.
The Arthur Smyths have lost a brilliant
young son, latterly a lieut. in the Scots’
Guards. John was killed in France while
the church bells were ringing here a Sunday
or two ago.
On Friday afternoon every copper you
spend at Ada Reeve’s matinee goes via the
Tivoli to the Anzac Buffet, which is the
breath of gum-leaves to our men in London.
Nominally the Mayor opened the new play-
ground in Moore Park the other afternoon.
But the youngsters themselves were in
charge long before the chariots of the elite
rolled up. Infantile housemaids with Tom
Thumb brooms swept the sand into heaps or
gurgled joyously at the miniature water-
trough. ' The arrival of the Kindergarten
Union was as nought to the democrats of
the kerb, who nearly swept president John
Mackay from his moorings on the shelter-
shed steps. Alderman John Walker flung a
bouquet at the persistent barrac-kers who
wrenched this cheerful patch from the City
Council. General-secretary Ellen Desaill.v
mentioned, in a soft whisper, that the babies’
games would be assisted by a young Kinder-
garten teacher.
If the eye of the needle was hard to
thread, what of the portal of the Aviation
School? Still, a few do push through, and
Lionel Lawson hopes to find wings that way
before August wilts. Meantime, he is going
to say good-bye to Sydney in the Conserva-
torium on August 7.
Two snacks of “Twelfth Night,” by
Eleanor Ross and attendant maidens, were
given at the Repertory last week. France’s
Day bagged the proceeds of the first perform-
ance. The Children’s Garden Clubs will buy
spades and hoes out of the second affair. No
male person strutted in the cast, and the
scenery was indicated, as in Shakspeare’s
day, by finger-posts—“ This is a wood,” and
so on.
G. W. Cooper, the gardening young man
from Melbourne, is taking temporary com-
mand of Anzac Parade, Hyde Park, and the
dusty shrubs that straggle round Victoria
Park. The Moreton Bay fig has few rivals
as a shady umbrella jn the fierce heat of
summer. But its greedy roots and untidy
habits make it unpopular with the Melbourne
gardener. Friends of the leafy veterans in
Hyde Park may, therefore, have to rally
round to save some heads from falling under
this Cooper’s axe.
The War Chest is out after 50,000 Tommy
Cookers now ; and to help pay for them it
has, with the assistance of returned men
who know what’s what, organised an exhibi-
tion at the back of the Showground. Prac-
tically it is a little bit of the French Front
transported to handy Paddington: dugouts.
machine-gun emplacements, trenches and all
the rest of it. The positions will be manned,
and, starting from Saturday, there will be
an exhibition of bomb-throwing, etc., every
afternoon. The little bit of Billjim’s coun-
try will be open for' inspection also on Sun-
days. You can get in then by dropping
something on the plate—all for the Cookers.
Other days it is sixpence for you and three-
pence for little brother.
The Cherniavskys opened their farewell
season in the Conservatorium to a select
audience of Highbrows. The accompanist’s
name was Czerny, ever associated with the
Young Person’s early morning struggles with
the keyboard. Pianist Jan’s mop of nut-brown
hair —his brothers have taken to the short
crop—flew out like a spring wig when he
struck the rousing chords of the great Bach-
Tausig item. Jan’s fingers have a velocity
that would catch and lose the Melbourne
express. But there’s music in his lightning
trips, even though Leo and Mischel can’t
always keep up. Still, the trio intend to
tour the United States in their present tri-
angle of brotherly love.
The new literary
discovery, Sydney de
Loghe—he uses the
modern spelling,
Loch, for everyday'—
wrote “The Straits
Impregnable” as a
diary. With the
scribbling itch at the
end of his fingers
this shy young Aus-
tral-Scotian has been
writing and tearing
up MSS. since his
knickerboeker days.
The easy and simple
style which grips the
reader in “The
Straits” is a result
of much youthful, if
secret, wooing of the Muse. For he has
much more than once written —and torn up
—a serious sonnet.
“Eight years in Australia, jackerooing on
stations in Queensland and N. S. Wales!” he
exclaims. “With the wanderlust in my
bones I have taken a packhorse and ridden
600 miles towards the sunset; then back
another way—just to see what was beyond
the next plain. It’s always the long horizon
that calls!” That’s all. The rest is the
result of patient digging. For the author of
the stirring tale of Gallipoli has a shy habit
of suddenly burrowing into silence. Per-
sistent spade-work brings to the surface a
few facts. He is not sure how many pub-
lishers refused “The Straits.” Certainly all
who read it. But H. H. Champion, of
Melbourne, had no doubts, and saved its life.
Its success was so great that only a few
copies of the unpretentious paper-covered
issue are now left on sale. John Murray
(London) has since published an edition in
important cloth dress. The shipping diflfl-
culty may hold up the circulation here.
But in England they are already reading the
fascinating description of the writer’s farm
in Gippsland. After two years’ toil, Sydney
Loch gave up that farm—it was in August,
1914 —and as Gunner Lake, who was event
ually invalided from Gallipoli, he wrote the
story day by day—at Broadmeadows oarnn
in the Egyptian desert, and between the
stress of Beachy Bill, a plague of flies, Turk
isli snipers and the buzz of German ’tanbes
at the Dardanelles. He uses “de Loghe” on
the flyleaf of his narrative—the ancient
spelling of Loch, the name of an old Midlo
thian family that once gave a bearded snh
royalty to Victoria. They have to thanl-
Judith Fletcher for an excellent picture of
their previously inarticulate young kinsman
The welter over Christmas-boxes for the
Front raises a dust that obscures for the
moment every other form of sacrificial offer-
ing. “Early in August” is the mandate
Gift afternoons and fierce rivalry surge round
every depot. Music is used with feminine
guile to drown the cries for mercy of any-
thing in a sac suit that strays into these
dens of —anyhow, it’s for Billjim. At one
of these affairs an elderly beau, who wouldn’t
carry a parcelled collar-stud in peace time
was recently laden down with a pair of
fowls, a string of sausages and half
cheese. The paper had almost vanished, and
the larder nestled unashamed against his
shirt-front. “I’ve got ’em,” he groaned, “and
there’s a sucking-pig to come. Now for an auc-
tioneer !” Of course, the gentle Hun may
send some of these good deeds to the bottom
to find the sharks. But that’s only a reason
for manifolding them.
Alfred Hill is whipping the Apollos into
better form, and last week’s concert drew a
full house to the Conservatorium. Phj]
Newbury was the tenor in “The Last Chief-
tain.” Later in the evening the Victorian
soprano, Doris M'clnnes, plunged into the
convolutions of the “Shadow Song.” But
she is rushing ahead too fast; the case calls
for more study before the thing that is so
easy to Melba is possible to her.
Mrs. Joe Cook is a mighty maker of mar-
malade. Early in the war she ranged a
regiment of boilers out of doors, at the
Baulkham Hills cot, and got into action. I
forget the tonnage of orange jam that went
to our men in consequence. But it was some-
thing important.
Bertie Adams, the pretty Sydney song-
ster, is still forging to the front in London.
As understudy to Violet Lorraine in “The
Bing Boys” she had several chances of
playing lead. The last news is full of
gorgeous frocking—Bertie is now at the
Alhambra in “The Bing Girls.” The fluffy
darlings are wonderfully hatted, the Aus-
tralian girl in something that is first-cousin
to an archbishop’s crown and halo com-
bined.
Lieut. Donald Macintyre, a former N. S.
Wales man, recently wedded a Cornish
bride, Violei: Anita Gurney. The Corn-
stalk is now in the Inniskilling Dragoons.
One of the Newcastle Curran girls, Grade,
was also wed in England a few weeks ago.
She chose an Australian—Major Kennedy, of
the Field Ambulance, who hails from* the
Blue Mountains.
There is a fine picture of the late Chief
Justice Darley in the Art Gallery. John
Longstaff, who painted it about 15 years ago,
has done a similar portrait for this year’s
Koyal Academy.
In spite of the alleged shortage in leather
the white buckskin boot is going to climb
knee-wards for summer wear. The price can
only be named in a whisper, but every other
girl will have a pair, all the same, and spend
moments of tense agony lacing up the
luxuries. Hats no larger than a plum tart
or millinery wide and flat as a pancake occur
at the other end of the lass.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Mr. ARTHUR SUMMONS,
Sales Manager.
AN
MR. Q. H. HORTON,
Factory Manager.
INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS.
KONJSCH.
BROADWOOD.
Mr. E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
WM
<
COLLARD & COLLARD.
BRINSMEAD*
*m
STEINWAY.
These well-known Pianos have been converted into Duo-Concerto Player Pianos.
Understand, we can insert the action in the piano of your choice, and
every instrument is fully guaranteed.
PLAYER PIANO.
THE PLAYER WITH A SOUL.
SOMETHING DIFFERENT!
THREE INDISPUTABLE FACTS.
Easiest to pedal.
Easiest to play.
Cannot be detected from the
piano played by hand.
YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF to TEST THIS INTRUMENT.
IMPORTANT.
Mr. A. 6. Gulbrausen, the inventor of this world-famous instrument, has
in the latest 1917 MODELS (a huge shipment of which has just arrived)
eliminated the wind chest, thereby giving the player 50 per cent, greater
repetition with one third of the amount of pumping, and at the same time has
so' simplified and perfected the mechanism that it enables him to give a 10
YEARS’ FACTORY GUARANTEE, which we pass on to our purchasers.
It has the lightest and smoothest air motor ever designed, and is practically
frictionless, with indestructible rotating metal valves instead of the usual
cumbersome wooden slides; and, in addition, has a transposing device which
enables you to play a song accompaniment in any key to suit any voice.
The Duo=Concerto is sold by over 1000 retail representatives in the
United States of America alone, which speaks for itself.
IT’S THE LATEST AND BEST.
We also stock the famous Gulbransen and Dickinson Pianos.
If unable to call, send for catalogues (posted free).
CASH OK TERMS—£S DOWN ANI) SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
E,. F. WILKS CO. LTD.,
Macdonell House, 321 PIT 5 ' S TREET (N«t to y.m.c.a.i, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street).
FACTORY: CORNER KENT STREET and ALBION PEACE.
Tel.: Showroom. City 10752. Factory, City 1144.
Newcastle Representative: A. COHEN, Piano Warehouse, Maitland Road, Hamilton.


\ '
Vi
■
R P 1
OILCOAT SPECIALS
WELL-CUT DURABLE COATS
for City or Country Wear.
at FARMER'S
RP1 —Men’s Oileoat§, as illustrated ; special
tropical weights, double-lined throughout, storm
cuffs, velvet collar. Very keen value.
Full fronts ' 27 /6
Butterfly hack 32/6
Riding panel 35/-
Other values in Oilcoats. Splendid wearing.
Black, straight fronts, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
Black pommel 25/-, 27/6, 32/6
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
IVe Pay Carriage.
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
is now ob-
tainable at
no cost of
energy and
very small
one of
money, by
using a
Smith Auto Wheel,
the installtly-detaehable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following firms.
'' ri tc or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., El
Melbourne; R. R. Russack.
eliffe, Sydney; Philip Frankel
Edward St., Brisbane; Eves and
Ptd.. Pirie rt., Adelaide; Geo C
Bq\- ann o r er <h, av.a.
i/.abeth
Edgre-
& Co ,
Crowle
Carter,
OVERCOATS
of Distinction
at
Distinctly Moderate
Prices.
BUCKLEY’S
TAILORS for
MEN OF TASTE
ml
mm
8281. —THE NEWBURY COAT,
designed especially as a light-weighti e! j s -
fitting, comfortable coat for general utility
and is a standard coat of a style which b
impervious to any change of current fashion.
Prices, 03/-, 84/-, 105/-. Bettcr
grades, with silk linings, £6/6/* t 0
£B/8/-
ORDER BY HAIL.
You’ll find it satisfactory.
Write for OUR NEW CATALOG
of MEN’S & BOYS’ CLOTHING.
Posted Free.
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, July 30, 1917.
My Dear Yaruie.
The Melba-Maude matinee, at Her
Majesty’s, was everything a patriotic matinee
should be. Not a downstair seat was sold tor
less than a guinea, and the gallery made a
record by taking half-a-guinea for each
climber. Melba opened the programme, and
doors were to be shut at 2; so even the
most dilatory people were in their places.
The star tripped on looking like an 18-year-
old by virtue of some wonderful arrangement
of her soft black dress—-very short and neat
and made in diaphanous layers. She had
bound her heavy black hair in plain soft
plaits round her small head and assumed
the demure air that Mimi wears in the first
act. Then she sang three sweet and simple
songs, reserving herself for the big “Othello”
scene later. For this the star was in purple
velvet and ermine robes, in a room hung
with rose brocade. Melba Desdemonaed with
a sad, white face and her hair smoothed
back softly. Ann Williams as Amelia was
busked and bodiced in a magnificent gown
of old-rose, and helped Mrs. Othello to_ dis-
robe into a wonderful white ninon nightie.
The G.-G. sat deeply buried in the nearest
stage box and got a special curtsey. Gover-
nor Stanley, opposite, was hedged round by
his offspring, a trim black-and-white nurse
in attendance. Conant perched in the back
of the box and looked interested for once.
Mrs. Geoff Syme boxed among a posy of her
pretty children. Florrie Young was with the
Tallises in their box and bought a doll for
£lO when the Melba auction was on.
Melba was the auctioneer and she used
all her blandishments. “ Really , Mr. Tait —
only £35?” she cooed when a Tait brother
bought the original Norman Lindsay pro-
gramme cover. Solomons bought a flag for
£2OO, but Melba kept inquiring beseechingly,
“Where’s Sam Allen? Where's Sam Allen
to-day?” Sam had been doing nobly at
recent patriotic auctions. The auctioneer
herself took-the pendant that Cyril Maude
presented, paying 50 guineas for it. A quiet
military aide in the rim of the G.-G.’s box
made numerous telling bids.
Cyril Maude and Betty Murray did a little
curtain-raiser sort of playlet. Betty’s nose
looked quite all right after her motor acci-
dent, and her red hair and snowy skin showed
up vividly from a low-cut English ball dress
of vivid shrimp pink, the skirt of which
stopped in front two inches below the knees,
but wandered off into an unhappy back train
of almost Court length.
There was nearly a minor tragedy before
the “School for Scandal” act. Maude went
off to escort his new leading lady, and their
motor got back only just in time. Lady
Susan’s ringlets were blown about in the
rush, and her small dog was almost hysteri-
cal with excitement. Lemmone’s Peter Pan
flutings made a delighted house cheer. John
had come over as a special favor to his
beloved Melba, and he never played better
hi his life.
Cyril Maude and Melba recited and sang
“The Voice in the Desert,” Maude looking
painfully like a fashion-plate young man
reading a newspaper. Meanwhile Melba sang
the peasant girl’s plaintive song beautifully,
and rescued the rash experiment from
bathos.
There have been great rejoicings over the
return of Lieut.-Col. C. M. Dare, D. 5.0., who
left here a mere lieutenant. He married a
daughter of Mark Moss, so her mother is
one of the big, handsome daughters of the
late “Bijou” Wilson.
Chief-officer Lee, of the Meropolitan Fire
Brigade, is uplifted in spirit. His only son,
Dr. Harrie, has won the M.C. in France _and
been promoted. Major Lee had part of
his medical training at Sydney, but gradu-
ated from Melbourne Uni. and did a year at
St. Vincent’s. Afterwards he practised at
Elsternwick and at Mortlake in the West-
ern District. Mrs. Lee, who is keeping the
practice together at Mortlake, is a native
of the sheep-country. She used to be Gene
Silvester, whose brothers pursue Costs up
and down the woolly West.
Sergeant G. M. McKinley has won the
Military Medal and his commission in
France. The youngster is a son of the late
.Tames McKinley and a nephew of Punch
McKinley. ITis’ brother also won his stars
on the field.
Bowes Kelly’s son Moncton has got into
dispatches. Field-Marshal Haig says: His
distinguished and gallant services and devo-
tion to duty I consider deserving of special
mention.” The young soldier went from the
classroom to the trenches; he was doing an
engineering course when the call came.
Algy Wakefield, the handsome youth with
auburn hair who figured so picturesquely in
a Melbourne cause celebre, and enlisted early
in the war, has been reported missing.
Charlie Mason (lieut.-col. now) lias just
been appointed to the command of a bat-
talion in France, after a short leave in
Blighty. His mother —widow of once-
Speaker Mason —has just received the news
with the cheering postcript, “Well and
busy.”
Loonie Peterson Mackworth is still affix-
ture at Cairo, where she has been since
before the days of Gallipoli. Her colonel-
husband lias been stationed in Egypt evei
since Billjim got there.
Lady Helen wears an anxious look since
brother Basil Blackwood was listed as miss-
ing in France. Lord Basil, who is a bache-
lor, is heir-presumptive to the marquisate,
Lord Duffer in and his Amurrican wife being
sonless. Lady Doris is the eldest of their
Three daughters.
Now that the King has changed his name
to Windsor, it is only to be expected that the
Royal Motto, “Honi Sait Qui Mai y Pensc,"
will be altered —in keeping with Tom Hood’lf
translation, “On His Walk He Madly Puns
—to “While There’s Life There’s Soap.”
The Forrest dame has sub-let the job of
chaperoning niece Muriel North to a visiting
Westralian friend while auntie enjoys a little
rest. The deputy is Mrs. C. Saw. See-saw.
See?
Lady Helen went to the social evening of
the Braille Society on Thursday. No one
knew she was doing it, and the excitement
was intense when she arrived. But she
didn’t sit on the head of the party; she
worked hard to make it enjoyable and wound
up with an appeal for funds for another
library. Private Glew helped with the music.
Paddy Dwyer, just dead in Melbourne,
was one of the most kindly, tactful and
good-humored of city magistrates, who made
a friend of the reporters by his humanity.
And now you know why so many bright
observations were attributed to him. Often
his speeches were composed at the press
table, too, for the P.M. was one of the
world’s worst elocutionists; no reporter ever
succeeded in catching more than one word in
five of his muttered remarks. A Melbourne
Herald rpan once reported him just as he
was heard at the press table, and a series
of jerky, half-finished sentences, detached
words and more or less irrelevant asides —-
the whole liberally besprinkled with dashes
and notes of exclamation —was the result.
In print it looked like a phonetic reproduc-
tion of an argument between a fox-terrier
and an Italian opera star. But it didn’t
ruffle Paddy’s good-nature. “The trouble
with me,” he explained next day to the
pressman, “is that I think aloud.”
From Madame Adelaide’s diary :
Driving showers and an arctic wind did their
worst for Australia Day, reducing over-night decora-
tions and the committee’s spirits to pulp; but the
procession, the sports and the carnival at the Exhibi-
tion drew good-natured crowds, and the takings
should not be much below last year’s. The Cheer-Up
lunchers overflowed from the Hut to the parade
ground, where 1800 men were fed.
The Galways watched the procession from the
Town Hall. In their party were Melba and Lady
Susan Fitzclarence, who had arrived the day before.
A dinner at Government House and a fancy-dress
carnival at the Exhibition wound up the evening.
The St. Peter’s Red Cross Society netted £7O for
Red Cross and Trench Comforts Funds at its concert
at the Queen’s Hall. Hilda Felstead, Gladys Cilento,
Francis Halls and Alexander Cooper fortified the pro-
gramme.
Brig.-Gen. Brand, C.M.G., D. 5.0., who has been
wounded, has been “mentioned” again. The D.S.O.
has been given to Major E. T. Dean, and his younger
brother (Alan) has earned a mention. So have Drs.
A. H. Powell, J. Corbin and C. T. de Crespigny.
Lieut.-Col. Francis Muecke’s name is in the same
dispatch. He is serving with the British R.A.M.C.,
having lived in England since his marriage to Ada
Crossley some years ago.
The R.S.A., Col. Weir president, has now a mem-
fbership of about 2000. Incidentally, the Royal
Yacht Squadron recommends that no single man
eligible to enlist for active service should be regarded
as also eligible as a member of the club.
The Tramways Trust has made good its threat
ag'ainst wearers of unprotected hatpins, and four
palpitating damsels were fined the other morning.
The penalty was only 2s. 6d., but if the magistrate
has a liver he can raise it to £lO. ,
The War Council’s embargo on collections for war
memorials till more urgent needs have been met
agitated a good many districts where collections had
already commenced. However, some genius suggested
that collections should be completed, up to a given
sum, provided the proceeds were invested in the war
loan until the end of the war. The War Council
approved, and that’s one problem out of the way.
A soldier on active service was easily the largest
contributor to our Australia Day Fund. He was
Major Lance Lewis, of the Light Horse, who sent
£lOOO through his father, squatter John Lewis, as a
practical thank-offering for being nursed back to
life again after a terrible wound. Lance is ruled out
of action for at least a year, and is seeking health
in S’Africa, but hopes to come on to Adelaide befoic
getting back to the Front.
Adelaide is counting up the damage after t
suburban floods. This hamlet differs from othei
mainland capitals in having both mountain and sea
close to it, and when the one catches heavy rains
and tilts them down to the other, which can t take
them fast enough because of there being no definite
river-mouth, then something has to suffer, water-
fall Gully is closed to traffic for a time, and many
market-gardens have been knocked about; but the
chief sufferers are those who have built on the flats
at Henley and The Grange. Their homes were still
in water a week after things were normal elsewhere,
and a big engineering scheme has to be devised
unless the district is to be condemned.
Flying-man Geoffrey Deans is_ to marry
Benigna K. Sawyers, daughter of the saw-
yers of Murtoa.
Ethel Holtz, pretty girl and good rifle-
shot, is to be married, quietly, on August J,
to Sam Karmel, of East St. Ivilda.
Melba is off on a little jaunt to Adelaide.
Cyril Maude and co. are doing Adelaide
before Sydney, and there is a Melba-Maude
matinee in prospect.
A message from a musical soul: —
Whatever else is taught the pupils at the Albert-
street Conservatorium they do not learn to respect
music for music’s sake. There was a large party of
them at the Melba-Cyril Maude matinee at Her
Majesty’s, and they were frankly Philistines. When
Melba came on they settled back with an obvious
determination to appreciate the treat at all costs,
and gushed ecstatically when it was over. Yet, just
before, they had kept up an incessant chatter while
Itossini’s “Semiramide” was being beautifully
played by a full professional orchestra, under Fritz
Hart. And a little later they were, at 'the best,
politely interested (many of them not even that) in
the masterly fluting of John Lemmone. Discernment
should surely be among the firstfruits of a musical
education.
Betty Paterson made her first appearance
at the Playhouse in a duck of a frock
that was white, young and blossomy, its
various chiffony layers dripping with flowers
and crystal fringe. Her hair w r as bound in
baby-roses, and altogether the young person
felt in fit trim to show off her large voice.
Betty is a Scottish-Australian, and the
heather is strong in her voice.- She is a
daughter of Hugh and a niece of the late
Johnny Ford Paterson, who worshipped
everything Scotch —from Whisky to Airt.
Aunt Airs. Gibbs (she is the mother of pla.v :
wright Louis Esson) graced a box. The
Forrest dame, Airs. Sellheim and the
Hennessy dame were well forward in the
stalls. The Bowes Kellys and the At liters
partied in the dress-circle. A good house
for a deb.
Rita Hope sat at the piano and massaged
the keyboard forcibly with powerful arms
bared to the shoulder. Amadio fluted and
accompanied the trillings of the star. The
exquisite Claude Hall sat on an ornate
antique chair while he recited. And other
assistance was rendered by a huge dull blue
curtain used as a background, and several
palms dotted about a stage carpet.
The Scotney-White pair are feeling very
pleased with themselves. Every concert they
give is packed. On Thursday night Evelyn
appeared in a marvellous frock of silver
breastplate and tulle frills. The skirt was
knee-high and her —may I say, legs?—were
bound with ribbon in ballet style. Two
queer purple-velvet stoles decorated her
dimpled back and ended in two dinky little
trains that worried the soprano like a pair
of playful pups. The dress-designer had pro-
vided a special back view and a front view
—the front including an Arcadian apron of
pansies. Both singers are generous with
their encores; but Howard AVhite at last
had to plead for a respite. He included
“Daffodils” and other distinctive songs by
Clifton Boanas, the local composer.
Geoffrey Syme and his decorative wife
went along to Afelba’s singing class at the
Albert-street Conservatorium the other morn-
ing and left a three years’ scholarship as a
souvenir. The Best People are deeply in-
terested in seeing how the diva does it. Last
AYednesday, when Alelba gave about 40 les-
sons before leaving for a week at Adelaide
Government House, several Alackinnons, the
Spenser dame, Airs. Oswald Syme, the James
Dyers and others lent ears free of charge.
Professor and Airs. Laver gave a recep-
tion to Verbrugghen and his Quartette at
their Canterbury home on Saturday after-
noon. Airs. Laver in a blue chiffon frock
and Aliss Laver in white fed the party, which
included more men than you can usually find
at an afternoon show. Verbrugghen, Nichols,
Alesseas and Jennie Cullen were the star-
guests. Alberto Zelman twinkled modestly.
Dutch Vice-Consul Teppema received con-
gratulations side by side with his fiancee,
Carmen Delprat.
The graceful drawing Norman Lindsay did
for the programme of the Alelba-Alaude
matinee brought a price that Vonl(1
have made tiie artist feel good if i le v
been there. Nothing suggestive of dead '7
injured soldiers in the pen-and-ink pictuia
.lust a youth and maiden standing together
lover-like, on the usual classical terrae
clad in something more than innocent
Peacocks and grapes and apples in the f or .V
ground and a fleecy cloud in the heaven '
it was auctioned with a few other thine!
Charlie Tait, the brother associated win,'
Allan’s, put in the last bid—3s guineas. 11
Iloycroft, the young stage-manger who i
producing "Out There,” is a Londoner who
knows every button of the Coster. At re-
hearsals he carefully coaches the co. in street
calls and Cockney speech. When an adaptive
Australian gets the desired tone. RoycrofG
soft “Yuss!” is delightful to hear. TL
management wants the young man to play a
Coster part during the season, his present
audience being restricted to the players and
stage-hands.
Grumpy's last night was a showman's
triumph. The theatre was packed in such
a way that the inspecting firemen hovered
about ordering the removal of enthusiasts
who had willingly paid seat-money to stand.
Maude made a last characteristic speech
and the whole company walked in turn
through Grumpy’s den.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
still going strong
< >
r\
ry
V
t
6J
I
0
Nv
u
vu
<pm
<&
o
7
/>.
s
ft
V
O
a
u
V
0
*
?
v:
CB^v^
•All is not gold that glitters.’ ”
Yes, but there is more than golden glitter about Jo.mnie k
—it is genuine.”
'Alike
JOHN >VALKEF ?r SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers. KILMARNOCK. Scotland


THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1863.
Authorised Capital £1,500,000
Subscribed Capital (50,000 £lO Shares) .. .. 500 000
Paid Up Capital £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits .. ~ 53 130
Reserve Inability of Proprietors .. .. .. 540000
Total Capital and Reserves .. .. .. .. £993 139
Directors:
WILLIAM DIXSON, Chairman.
Senator the Hoc.. Sir ALBERT J. GOULD. A. A. C. COCKS M L V
Hon. THOS. WADDELL, M.L.A. H. C. L. ANDERSON, M.A.
Acting General Manager: J. S. MARKS.
HEAD OFFICE: 166 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
4~> Branches and Agencies in New South Wales. Agents in New Zealand and Fiji-
The Bank of New Zealand ; Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia • The
National Bank of Australasia Ltd.; Queensland : The Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Drafts ’rawn on and cable remittances made direct to Foreign Places Tetters
of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Drafts issued on San Francisco and New York in dollars or sterling
11
King George IV
WHISKY
v~\
TH E lOP^lOTCH ’scotch
a SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Billy T.”: After experiments with many
kinds of cat, the mongoose, seven terriers, a flock
of laughing jacks and all the traps known to the
faculty J have come to the conclusion that the
carpet-snake is the best of all mediums for dealing
with our latest thing in plagues. Secure a healthy,
adult male specimen, say 7ft. in his socks, with a
SOCIETY NOTES.
“Didjer go round ter Bill's birfday blow-out?"
"Aah! There was a successful night, my hoy. They tell me his wife got three shil-
lings for the empties next day.”
well-developed carpet-bag. On the capacity of the
carpet-bag his success largely depends. A carpet-
snake with a carpet-bag holding less than, say,
500 mice may do very well for domestic use in
the suburbs, but not for the mouse-infested areas.
Having secured your snake, administer a -gin and
bitters, and proclaim Lent for three days. Then
liberate him where the flow of mice is most copious,
and leave him to his own devices for the night.
Look him up in the morning, plunge him in hot
water to destroy the vermin (this can he done with-
out fear of serious damage to the carpet, as only
on very rare occasions will his colors run), and
then hang him up by the tail in the stable. In the
course of a couple of hours the snake grows weary
of the effort to retain his rightful possessions in
this uncomfortable and unnatural position, and
rapidly unpacks his bag. I have seen a well-meaning
carpet-snake disgorge 2000 mice at a hang-
ing. With practice the bag is greatly distended, and
1 have at this moment a carpet-snake who has stow-
age for close upon 3000 mice. Having emptied your
snake, permit him to resume his duties, ft hen he
is ag-ain packed you repeat the suspension act, and
so on ad lib., until there are no longer any noticeable
mice in your neighborhood. I give these facts gratia.
being mortified to find I am not permitted to secure
patent rights.
* * * *
“Mr-North - ’: When black brother’s health
gets out of gear he has immediate recourse to cer-
tain herbs and roots. The “medicine” is generally-
prepared by either maceration or mastication and
formed into a rough paste. The mess is then vigor-
ously rubbed in. If the sickness persists, the malig-
nant influence of an enemy is blamed; but if (lie
“bone-ache” disappears the “medicine” gets all the
credit. The patient thinks that by vigorous rub-
bing he is forcing the healing properties of the
“medicine” through to the affected parts, while
nine times out of 10 no part of the rubbish pene-
trates the skin at all. It’s the massaging that does
the trick, the chewed-up herbs assisting only by
reducing friction between hands and skin. Massoia
bark, the overcoat of a big evergreen, is commonly-
used for its alleged medicinal virtues by the nigs, of
Western Papua. This bark is probably about as
non-effective for curing broken legs as the other
bush remedies, but is said to be valuable as a spice.
It certainly has a pleasant nutmeggy flavor. There
is a rumor that before the war the Germans exported
large quantities of it from their side of Papua, and
that it realised Is. 2d. per lb. Anybody know any-
thing about it?
“Petifi” : I’m one of the sceptics as to
water-divining, and my aloofness wasn't disturbed by
a recent newspaper telegram from Tcnterfleld
(N.S.W.) : —-
The Rev. E. Poeknall is meeting with success as a
water-diviner, not only in marking sites, but in
estimating tiro depth of the flows. Air. Poeknall uses
a straight piece of wire with twisted strands about
21- feet long, which he holds perpendicularly from
his chest. This gives a certain number of revolutions
according to the depth, then pauses for a few
seconds, and continues its revolutions to-indicate the
next water-yielding strata. It may be that it will
indicate a dozen different flows, and after indicating
the last it will begin to repeat the lot again.
Marvellous! Hut I want to know who taught that
wire arithmetic so that it could “give a certain
number of revolutions according to the depth.” Also,
how was the teaching done? Likewise, how does the
Rev. Poeknall (or anybody else) know that the
revolutions allegedly caused by the second, third and
succeeding • moistures . aren’t the result of the first
drink ? 1- urther, how does the wire “indicate” that
it has got to the bottom flow and is going to begin
counting- thorn all over again? To me the Rev.
Pocknall’s “success” merely establishes more firmly
the largely-accepted theory that the vagaries of the
divining-rod are caused, not by the “mysterious
attraction” of subterranean water, but by some
nervous impulse (possibly unsuspected) due to the
imagination of the operator. The Rev. Poeknall, as an
educated man, knows that water will probably exist
at different depths; his knowledge of geology in-
forms him where the wetness is likely to be soonest
found —anyone with a moderate experience of the
subject can make a fairly accurate guess—and his
imagination and nervous system do the rest. Anv-
how, he is on a safe wicket regarding the second
and subsequent flows. \'o one, having sunk on to
the first flow, is likely to pump it dry and "go hunt-
ing down for the others.
SO HANDY.
“My word, Liz, they don't cart ’em far here, do they?”
“Chink”: “Yalgun’s” query (B. 28/6/’l7)
as to why the restless flycatcher (scissors-grinder)
invariably builds in the same tree as the peew.ee is
easy to answer. It doesn't. Both birds have a
blue-ribboner’s weakness for water, or, maybe, the
insects that water attracts, and it sometimes chances
that the mud nest of the peeweo and the soft little
cradle of the scissors-grinder occupy the same resi-
dential quarters near the edge of a pool. That’s all.
On the other hand, it happens just as often that
the smaller of the pied pair sets up house-keeping in
an orchard, vastly to the advantage of the owner
thereof. A most interesting point about the little
chap is his extraordinary whirr as he hovers a
few feet above a grassy patch. That this scheme is
effective in disturbing potential tucker is proved by
the fact that other birds frequently hang about the
flycatcher to snap up anything he overlooks.
"A.P.Ia.” : “Te Whare” (B. 5/7/’l7) asks
for the finder of a blood-bird’s egg. In the vicinity
of Homebush (N.S.W.) some few years ago blood-
birds’ nests and eggs were fairly numerous and were
found in the paper-bark tea-tree. The small nest
was made principally of bark fibre. The eggs, usually
two, were white, spotted red. Ilurstville and Pens-
hurst, where the turpentine abounded, -were the haunt
of the bird, which fed on the nectar of the blossom.
These dainty and beautiful birds came in great
numbers to Sydney suburbs about 10 years ago,
evidently on account of a nectar drought further
afield. In my opinion the mistletoe-bird is the
rarer, but it still can be seen fairly frequently round
Seven Hills, where the mistletoes have -simply taken
charge of the gum-trees. I have also found the
birds’ nests at Homebush.
“Billy T.” : It Avas up beyond Nagambie,
just after the flood—-not Noah’s, but the recent
flushing in Northern Vic. The hero’s name
is James. There is more of it, but that
is sufficient for our present purpose. James
was discovered sitting on the banks of
the Goulburn with a demijohn by his side
and a pannikin in his hand, and every
now and again he would reach down, scoop
up a little river water and taste it.
Hrever, who had been digging for his vine- f
yard in the flood slush across the river,
got into his boat late in the afternoon
and pulled over. He Wanted to know
what James was doing that for. James
dipped up another pannikin of river water,
and tasted again. “What.” said he,
“ain’t yeh ’eavd ?” “Heard what, you
blithering idiot?” “Doorin’ the flood
Wilson up et Pingbat lost 15 gallons iv
bulk whisky into the river.” James was
waiting for the whisky flavor to come down.
“F.N.T.”: Another method for the dis-
couragement of mice is the use of sulphur in stack-
building. Sulphur costs about 30s. a cwt. Sprinkled
over every two or three layers during stack-building,
a. cwt. is enough to do a 30-ton rick. Mice
prefer their hay plain and so leave the fodder alone,
except for nibbling a little here and there to sec
what it tastes like. If anything, the addition
improves the value of the hay for other stock.
“Yalgun” : Am I right in wagering that
this is a world’s record? At Ramornie meat-works
M. J. Slack skinned and dressed a bullock in 4min.
20secs. Slack was amateur champion sculler of Aos.
tralia once, and as a bare-knuclde middleweight
fighter was among the best 30 years ago.
*. * * »
“Bad Australian”: So a Bulletin con-
tributor lias discovered that the South American
method of yoking bullocks can give some points to
Australia. Like this. The Chilian lashes his yoke
rigidly to the base of the “bull’s” horns, and when
50 per cent, of the yoke slides on a slab of banana
bark or drops down dead from ill-treatment and
mal-nutrition, it generally twists the head or horns
off the remaining half of the outfit. The team rarely
consists of more than two beasts. When the
Chilian wants to deliver a 50ft. or 60ft. spar
(which he gets from Australia or Puget Sound), &
cuts it into handy sections so that his small steers
can shift it in his little cart. He can always “fish"
the sections together again with a bit of “alfalfa
wire” or greenhide, so that is all right. The two-
wheeled carts are so easily controlled that those
which are not fitted with the rare and very primi-
tive braking-gear frequently rush down the steep
slopes of the Andes into the Pacific. Occasionally
one of the greenhide lashings carries away, and the
bull on that side takes to the woods while the
other gets tangled up with the under-carriage of the
vehicle. The crows (only there are no crows in
Chili) get the tangled cadaver at the bottom of the
grade and the neighbors eat that part of the motive-
power which has taken to the brush. All of which
is clearly advantageous in its way. I feel very
much inclined to air my views on the advantages
A DIFFICULT MILITARY
PROBLEM.
THE OFFICER : “Now, you Pay Corps, you
hare your uniforms —for God’s sake try
to look like soldiers!”
of the Chow bamboo-and-basket method of transport
as opposed to the Renard Road Train; and I’ll take
an early opportunity of saying a few words in favor
of the wheelbarrow.
(Continued on page 24.)
BY MOM BA TRACKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hearts of the everlasting flowers
Shall steal the gold o' the sun
When the winter rains have done their work
And the winter days are done,
And the desert pea shall hue the rocks
By the tracks of Momba run.
The dew shall gleam on the silken webs
That the night-time spider weaves,
And scatter its gems on the saltbush plains
And drip from the homestead eaves,
And the quandong fruit take scarlet fire
In the green of the quandong leaves.
The bees shall saunter from bloom to bloom
And burthen their honey sacs—
And the drovers ride in the sunset light
On the long-, long, winding tracks;
But never a man shall pause to pray
By the graves of the Barrier blacks.
Deep dug, they lie in the mulga scrub,
These graves of a dwindling race,
Stone-piled and bare, where the windy noons
Swift lights and shadows trace!
And the lone, heaped mound is the only sign
Of a dead man’s burial-place.
They passed away like a feeble flame
Before the white man’s Jrreath
(Wherever the white man sets his feet
The white man comes with death) :
And they lie deep-celled in the moisty mouldy
And the wind their requiem saith.
x.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Outstanding "Orient Values
at DAVID JONES’.
TO
“Orient”
Golf or Tunic
Shirt, 4/6 •
Made of good-quality
Cambric in Golf style,
with soft double cuffs
and soft front (as illus-
tration), or Tunic style,
with stiff single cuffs and
stiff neckband. Blue and
Black stripe designs.
Sizes: 14 to 17$ inches
neck.
“Orient”
Ceylonette
Pyjamas,7/6
Made in bold-stripe de-
signs of Blue, Grey, Pink
or Helio, from good-
quality Ceylonette, guar-
anteed to give exceptional
wear. Sizes: 34 to 44
inches bust.
I Ve Pay Carriage.
f//
DAVID JONES LTD.
OPP. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
§.
fH)
9
m
m 6
Guaranteed Fresh and to Preservative
This Confectionery was 'manufactured aud calked on
? Alin iqi7 JLJL hkJWS**
if condition* beyon4,pur control Have rendered it un-
satisfactory, we request yoo return the package
‘^ Cy parcel post
After s*>ptoin« mfornratksn requested on reverse side
we will gladly replace same.
ERNEST HILtIER, 162 Pitt St, Sydney, N.S.W.
note,
THE DATE OF MANUFACTURE
If imported. Chocolates had the date that they were made
stamped on the box, you would never eat them. '
“Ernest Htllier” Chocolates are shipped to you on the day
they are made.
Packed only in Red Boxes. Made in Australia,
Price: 3-, 5-, 66, 10 6, 15/-, 25-
Posit free to any address tn Australia.
•162-PirrSr
SYDNEY
T*£
Leviathan
TAILORING
Double - breasted
Coat, 5/- extra.
li
is famed throughout Aus-
tralia for its sound value
and lasting goodness.
Leviathan Suits retain
their shape after many
months of sterling ser-
vice.
Leviathan Cutters are
Recognised Specialists
—craftsmen who are
qualified by dint of
ability and experience to
give shape and style to
every garment they de-
sign. EVERY MAN ON
OUR RIO TAILORING
STAFF IS AN EXPERT
AT lIIS PARTICULAR
WORK.
Allow these Experts to
tailor your next suit, at
63M471%
% I
and you will realise what
a well-made perfect-fit-
ting suit should be.
JT
V
\ Ml
Ask for FREE SAMPLES, TAPE & CHART.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
The LEVIATHAN
MELBOURNE.
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/- each
BRITISH-MADE
rColumbi^
y| Records jy
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5/- each
Some Excellent 12in. Columbia Records
130
354
411
445
477
479
513
532
575
598
599
372
514
252
594
595
435
511
563
591
597
VOCAL.
Lo, Here the Gentle Lark —flute obligato Ruth Vincent, Soprano.
Sweet Bird—flute obligato ,, „ .»
The Dream Song, from “Iolanthe” AV alter Passmore.
Oh, a Private Buffoon, from “Yeoman of the Guard”.... ,,
I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls-—“Bohemian Girl”.. Grace Kerns, Soprano.
Come With the Gipsy Bride —“Bohemian Girl” ,, ,, ,,
Then You’ll Remember Me—“Bohemian Girl” Reed Miller, tenor.
Her Bright Smile Haunts Me Still Edward Greene, tenor.
Will You Love Me When I’m Old? Mrs. Stewart Holt, contralto.
Take Back the Heart „ „ ,, >>
The King’s Minstrel Thorpe Bates, baritone.
If Thou Wert Blind ,, ,, >>
The Old Sexton ' Miles R. P.racewell, bass.
When Richelieu the Red Robe Wore ,, >> >>
Lohengrin’s Narration Morgan Kingston, tenor.
Samson’s Prayer—“Samson and Delilah” ,, ,, „
Elsa’s Dream, from “Lohengrin” Bettina Freeman, soprano.
Elizabeth’s Prayer, from “Tannhauser”
In Summertime on Breedon Edgar Coyle, baritone.
Shepherd’s Cradle Song » „ »
Australia AVill Be There Lloyd Johnson, baritone, and Chorus.
The Land of Gra-ma-Chree Jamieson Dodds, baritone.
COLUMBIA LIGHT OPERA CO.
Oh, Oh, Delpliine Vocal Gems.
Oh, Oh, Delphine—Venus Waltz Vocal.
Rob Roy Vocal Gems.
Rob Rov » Princes Orchestra.
COLUMBIA ITALIAN OPERA CO.
Rigoletto—Quartette Vocal.
Rigoletto—Selections Princes Grand Concert Band.
RECITATIONS.
The Stage Doorkeeper, Part 1 :• Bransby Williams.
The Stage Doorkeeper, Part 2 ,. ,,
Longshoreman Bill, Part 1 Alfred Lester, comedian, & Co.
Longshoreman Ball, Part 2 ,, ,, ,, >,
INSTRUMENTAL.
Komarinskaja (Russian Folk-Songs, Fantasia), Part 1 .. Russian Sym. Orcli.
Komarinskaja (Russian Folk-Songs, Fantasia), Part 2 .. ,, ,, „
Scotch Symphony t Princes Grand Concert Band.
Die Meistersinger—Selections Princes Orchestra.
L’apres midi d’un faune —Prelude Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards.
Prelude de “L’Assomption” „ ,, ,, ,,
Little Grey Home in the AVest—Wal?z Frinces Orchestra.
Where My Caravan Has Rested —Wr/ltz ,. ,,
Indian Love Lyrics Fuion Symphony Orchestra.
Indian Love Lyrics ,, ,, „
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place. '
.MELBOURNE, VlC.—Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St,
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. J
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


MEGGITT’S
LINSEED OILMEAt
/AEG
PAR
<G
Is
/"I
<4.
\V /
U7W
/ /
*.W&\
L*
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
PIJIS; calves, heifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on a daily ration of linseed-oil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the buttcr-fat test by One
Point.
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
carry away all the prizes. Mr. H. McD. Livingstone.
Posehill Farm, Ivingaroy, at the 1910 show won seveu
In-st prizes with a pen of calves, and won the three
butter-fat tests with a pair of Meggitt Linseed-oil
meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD..
I.^
*
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers, 26 Kind Street, Sydney, N.S.W
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladicr recommend them. P>e sure
you got the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
“Flinderino”: The little fish that climbs
frees mentioned by “0.5.11.” (B. 5/7/’l7) is com-
mon on the mudflats along the North Bananaland
coast, where it is known as the Johnnie Jumper or
mud-skipper. Its breathing apparatus is such that
it can leave the water and cruise ashore in search of
change of diet. At low tide it is often half a mile
from ilio sea. But should any sea-hawk or other
raider happen along, .lack will dive into the near-
est cvab-liole and stay there until the danger is past.
His eyes protrude somewhat and each moves inde-
pendent of the other ; thus be can look two ways at
once, and would make an ideal politician. The
specimens “0.5. H.” saw at Gladstone were small if
only two to four inches long. Further north Ive
met them up to 12 inches. I’ve never seen Binghi
attempt to catch the jumper, so T conclude it is
not worth putting, on tlic menu.
* * * *
“Hay” : lie gob a 1111 a oil having an injuri-
ious effect on the joints or bones when employed as
a liniment. Fifty years ago I used a good deal of
it on my hands and arms and no ill (fleets came my
way. Binghi continually anointed himself with it,
and, in its absence, emu fat. No doubt lie had been
doing the same thing from bis earliest daj's, and
as far as I’ve observed him black brother has never
been afflicted with stiff joints or diseased bones.
“303”: The other day a small hoy sitting
at a farmer’s table near Murwillumbah, on the
Tweed (N.S.W.), said be heard foxes barking during
the night. The Northerners laughed and the boy
subsided. But lie had been staying recently in the
Batlow district and knew the sound only too well.
His good heating has since been confirmed—two
foxes shot and killed and one wounded, the first
seen in the district. So now Mrs. Hen looks serious
and Pa Booster is afraid to c-row- lest lie should be
overheard. Fox-proof wire fences are too costly
these times, and the farmers round Murwillumbah
will have another worry presently.
“Lowan”: Weeds, like mice, seem migra-
tory in their habits. For years on the Wimmera the
eoekspur kept the cocky cursing and combing- its
affectionate burrs out of his whiskers; now' it is
almost gone. Next the poppy rose up like Jonah's
vegetable, and painted the plains red from skyline
to skyline; it left as suddenly. The iron-weed came
and went, and the Scotch-thistle occasionally pauses
to make a few T pointed inquiries and then hurries on.
Our latest arrival, the yellow-flowered musk-weed,
after rousing up the worst instincts of every wheat-
grower in the district, has also begun to wear the
dejected look of a disappointed immigrant.
• * * * *
“Ashton”: Here on the Maranoa River
there are many uses for tobacco. For earache a
piece is chewed and pressed into the drum. The
w'eed is invaluable as a means of barter with the
aboriginals. For horses that are scouring, a fig of
tobacco tied to the bit for a few hours is said to be
a certain cure. The weed has been used even as a
means of self-defence, and in that capacity is unex-
pected and disconcerting. A prolific inhabitant of
the Balonne was an inveterate ehewer. When
embroiled in a scrap he would shape up and spar for
an opening. Then bis opponent's eye-would get it.
He invariably won. I’ve seen a rum cask at a pub
(fallen to pieces in the heat) studded inside with
figs of tobacco nailed to the staves. Apparently for
flavoring. Tobacco is also used for smoking.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
BILLJIM : “Dunno —must be getting off-color,
I think. Don’t seem to find no pleasure
in anything to-day.”
A HEAD.
FIRST OLD GENTLEMAN: “ What's the matter, Bill? Yer ain’t lookin’ too good this
mo min’.”
SECOND OLD GENTLEMAN : “No, I don't feel too good either. But it on'g seri es me right
fer not harin’ more brains. I was runnin' tiro-ales fer the old man last night an’
stout-an’-bitter fer Mother Hogan, an' — well, yon know, a man ought ter know
wot to expect when he mixes them.”
“Private Room”: The “manna” that
“C.M.8.” (B. 12/7/’l7) inquires about is found
under gum-trees—any species, and not only on the
tanks of creeks. It is made by the cicada. The
insect, boring into the leaves, causes sap to collect
and soft white crumbly grains are formed which in
time fall to the ground. These grains are rather
sweet but not sickly. Our pawnbroker tells me
that this manna is not the manna of the paddock in
which Moses and the tribes lost their way.
“Maranoa”: The best dingo-slaughtering
device is the gun trap. Take an ordinary shotgun
or .44 Winchester rifle loaded with shot (rammed
down the barrel in the case of the rifle), attach a
small pulley to the stock, tie a single strand of
very fine snare wire to the trigger back through
flic pulley, tie the gun firmly to a tree or some handy
object, stretch your wire tightly across the pad
used by the dog, fasten the end to another tree or
peg driven in the ground, and aim your gun along
the wdre, which should be just high enoug-h for the
dog to bump with his chest as be comes along the
pad. All you have to do after that is to go along
next day and scalp your dingo.
“Te Whare”: Most fishes reproduce by
eggs, either floating- them on the surface, such as
those of the snapper, or attaching them to weeds
at the bottom, as those of garfish; but, exclud-
ing the shark family, there is at least one Austra-
lian fish which is viviparous, i.e., produces its young-
alive. This species is a small brown weed-dweller run-
ning five to eight inches in length, and having a queer
crest on its head. Hence it is labelled crested
weed-fish. I’ve seen examples netted on weedy bot-
toms in Wallaga Lake, South Coast (N.S.W.). The
flesh is edible, I believe, but it would take at
least half a dozen corpses to satisfy a hungry infant.
Though most sharks are viviparous there is one,
the Port Jackson shark, or bullhead, which lays eggs.
These are enclosed in spiral cases of tough material
like black indiarubber, and if you are anything of
a beach-comber you may find them occasionally
attached to pieces of kelp, with a hole in the end
through which the young bullhead made his exit.
Scientists aver that this fellow has only one rela-
tive living at the present day. He rarely exceeds
4ft. in length and is no man-eater.
“Phil”: So long as there's a kerosene-tin
and a hurricane-lamp, the Australian bush will keep
the flag flying. Travelling per sulky from Central
Victoria to Temorn (N.S.W.), I was met at the
gate of a wayside pub by a hermit with a hoary
beard and a hurricane-lamp. With his lamp swing-
ing he brightened the way to the stable,
where I fixed up my horse for the night.
From there we journeyed to the bar, where
he dumped the lamp on the counter and
kept me in view while I stopped a stiff
whisky. I was then conducted to the
dining-room, where his smoky old lumi-
nator shed its rays across my corned-beef
and pickles. After tea I suggested a game
of cards, so off we went to the taproom,
where we played several hands at crib-
bage. He continually lifted the glass and
lit bis old pipe on the flame, while the
shadows danced eerily. It was getting-
on my nerves. When bedtime came be
gave me the lamp to go to bed by. I’d
hardly tucked the horse-rug- round me
when liis whiskers poked through the door
and he asked if I was finished with the
.light. "Without waiting for an answer, he
grabbed it and shuffled into the next room,
where I heard him shedding his dungarees
and hobnails. Next, he appeared in his
shirt on the verandah hanging the old
beacon on a post in front of the sign-
board, right alongside my window. Next
morning, as I was getting away very early,
I asked old Diogenes to lend it to
me to hang- on the axle of- the sulky
until dawn appeared. He said he was sorry, but he
wanted its company round his rabbit-traps.
“Adelaide” : It seems quite possible that
“E.J.0.” has been needlessly horrified (B. 12/7/T7)
at finding fresh-water hyacinth carefully tended in
a near-Svdnpy pond. It may not he a pest at all
in that latitude. If he comes down to Adelaide he
might get similar spasms over certain prickly-pear
fences in the suburbs; they are old-established, but
do not spread. Box-thorn is more likely to be our
trouble. Tell an English land-owner that he is mad
to establish a rabbit-warren in his park, and lie
won’t understand you. These things all depend on the
climate.
“Kola” : I differ from the correspondent
who (B. 2S/C/’l 7) says that Gregory Mathews's
“Birds of Australia” 4s a failure. I too am getting
the work and am well satisfied with it. I have
never seen Gould’s book. I know, however, that it
is a good one. But if it has got anything in it
better than Mathews's picture of the white-headed
fruit pigeon (vol. 1, page 125) it must be more
than good—a wonder. Most of the early pictures
were drawn by the late . Keulmans, who was
acknowledged to be the then-best in the world, and
the new men are doing nearly as well. I feel sure
that Mathews will eventually rank as the standard
authority on his subject.
A LINEAL DESCENDANT OF AN
A NCIENT BIBLICAL CHARACTER.
MOTHER: “’Ow yer ’ ome from school so
soon?"
SON : "It's mining like blazes up school.”
MOTHER: “ ’Ow ain't yer wet, then?”
SON : “I lef before it started.”
CHILBLAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now shrewish Winter’s venomed tooth
Is here to bruise your heel,
To gall the tender kibe of youth,
The blood of age congeal.
She plants her poison in your toe,
She sets your chin and ears aglow,
And chilblains on your fingers grow.
They scald and burn ;
Your car you spurn.
You grind, and scrape, and scrub, and churn;
You seize ’em, squeeze 'em, pinch and tease ’em,
And rasp at every toe in'turn.
Before the glowing evening fire
You sit to read or stitch,
And presently, with fiendish ire,
Begins the Devil's itch.
It lingers with malignant spite,
’['lie pangs that titillate and bite
Pursue you through the endless night;
You lave and nurse,
You swear and curse;
You hop and skip, waltz and reverse;
You snatch ’em, catch ’em, club and scratch ’em--
They itch, and ache, and burn the worse!
In frost, when plodding to your toil,
The agony begins;
You feel the torment of a boil;
The fire for mortal sins ;
You groan, and roll a haunted eye;
You moan, and twist your face awry;
Yon gulp and gurgle, sob and sigh;
You stamp and stare,
You claw your hair,
And in your frenzy breathe a prayer;
You stick ’em, flick ’eih, knead and kick ’em.
Till people think you're not “all there.”
Then ripe, with ears like muffins grown,
A nose of scarlet dye,
With fingers curiously blown,
And toes that flare and fry,
The unendurable you know,
And in one culminating ihroe
You feel your reason bust and go.
You strike a match
For quick dispatch,
And start a bonfire in your thatch ;
Then smash ’em, slash ’em, saw and gash ’em,
And die a devotee of Scratch!
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.


«' <H*
m
%
a
m
m
K\Xs>
v
0
S’EP
,•
r «.•••“•
ZifK
VvO
6^
«■>
.
;C£i%
£1
p*OC^
•-
fcTfcre
<*
e
ci^»os
NS
dip** 1
.
IPW | & i
coo\?
* •:
i« • .
;i. £'.*}. '.>* <«
ssssss
■•*• I ?
<t
he#
•-
»
rf*
nc w
>*.
>W
*
i>W* >
wm-j*- -
1 >****.,;.**
; - ~
*SS
JW*"—
’tX,
A
ssiiil
fei
tl-r.IS
■■ .-• ■••> j/
THE DUNLOP
RUBBER MILLS
, Largest in ?
Southern
Hemisphere.
It Costs You no more to
Specify ‘“Dunlop” “Brand
when purchasing Rubber Goods-the difference is in the EXTRA WEAR
YOU GET The “ Dunlop” Brand is your guarantee of receiving freshly
made high-grade goods that will give you FULL VALUE FOR YOUR
MONEY-PLUS SATISFACTORY SERVICE.
you will keep on using goods of our manufacture More Dunlop
Rubber Goods are sold in Australasia to-day than all the other brands
put together. WHY ? Simply because the quality is put into toe
goods to ensure maximum service-and the Public know .it. In
addition - there remains the fact that they are made by Australians
in Australia. Amongst the goods we manufacture are
MOTOR TYRES (Pneumatic & Solid)
CYCLE TYRES VEHICLE TYRES
TENNIS BALLS RUBBER HEELS
WATERPROOF GARMENTS & RUGS
HOSES—GARDEN, ENGINEERING, &c.
MILKING MACHINE REQUISITES
PLUMBERS’ GOOHS
MINING GOODS
ENGINEERING REQUISITES
RUBBER INLAID MATTING
SPORTING GOODS
Etc. Etc.
Area. s% Acres
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
FOUNDERS OF THE PNEUMATIC TYRE INDUSTRY.
OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND
14-00 Employees
YOU c&nhel


There is Nothing Better than
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
\\£i M/a
(m
X'
&
'i'-
ll
ttincmr imrHyJ
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years’ experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask (or
V “HEARNE’S”
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Fax” : Webster, P.M.G., has decided that
business circulars or catalogues wherein a
personal pronoun appears are henceforth to
be posted as letters, and stamped accord-
ingly. There is a fair show of reason for the
P.M.G.’s contention that printed circulars,
disguised in the orthodox wording of a busi-
ness letter and ended with the facsimile of
the firm’s solemn signature, should be mailed
at the rate of a penny the half-ounce. But
to apply the rule to catalogues of many pages
is absurd. Take, for instance, the Post
Office’s own bulky 600-page telephone direc-
tory. Is that any the less obviously not
“personal correspondence” because the
P.M.G. says on the cover “Call for the Infor-
mation Officer for other information, if the
telephone is not working satisfactorily, or it
you have occasion to complain of inattention
or neglect” ?
*■ * * *
“A.S.C.”: Perhaps I’ve missed seeing it,
but has The Bulletin ever heard Billjim’s
pet name for the bacon issue? The pig
ration usually consists of a large quantity
of fat with one stripe of meat down the
centre; wherefore Billjim has labelled it
Lance-corporal Bacon. All the same, lie’s a
fine friend in the cold trenches, is that same
n.c.o.
# * * *
“T. 0.1.”: Early in August, Itaine and
Horne will offer a bit of historic Sydney pro-
perty —the southern portion of The Astor,
now a private hotel. The place was built in
the ’so’s by Daniel Cooper, first Speaker of
the Leg. Assembly, as a town house. When
Daniel decided to live in London the Civil
Service Club took the premises. A while
after that organisation, “the Cream of the
Service,” went bung, the old Cooperage
became the home of the Reform Club, of
which Jack Robertson was high priest.
When he died the Club first drank itself out
of debt and then died.
* * * *
“303” : If intelligent use had been made of
the available tonnage, the mice would have
had thousands of tons less wheat to spoil
and England’s pantry would have been
better furnished. Take one instance of
stupid waste. In January last a steamer
left here for London with 3500 tons of copra.
Was copra more wanted than wheat? The
silly reason given was that England wanted
glycerine. Now 3500 tons of copra would
not, under the most favorable conditions,
hold more than 245 tons of glycerine; there-
fore, a more costly way of shipping it could
not have been devised. Good tallow con-
tains a much higher proportion of glycerine
than cocoanut-oil, and could have been sent
if 245 tons of glycerine could not be bought
or commandeered here. The copra would
also hold about 120 tons of water. Did
somebody pull strings? The chances are that
he did. You can’t get near the Common-
wealth Offices without being tangled in those
things.
*• * * *
“Mallet”: The conclusion of Tiie
Bulletin (5/7/T7) that “we don’t need
duties so much as a feeling that it is dis-
graceful to buy anything from outside our
country” reminds me. Two years ago the
Northcote (Vic.) branch, of the P.L.L. was
asked by a neighboring branch to carry the
following resolution: “That this branch
pledges itself individually and collectively to
buy nothing but Australian goods.” The
Northcote patriots gladly obliged amid
applause. A fortnight later I had occasion
to cadge some tobacco from the proud mover
of the motion. He handed me a plug of
English tobacco, a German-made knife and
a box of Japanese matches. I noticed that
he was smoking a French pipe, and, when I
presently shouted, he strongly recommended
me to try a brand of Danish lager he was
very fond of.
**- * *
“The Pariah”: Some patriot should
endow a Manufacturers’ Introduction
Bureau. Some time ago a woman scribe w r as
“doing” Sydney industries for a local paper,
and the manager of a tannery presented her
with the material for a pair of white boots.
Lately she went to a leading shoe-house to
have the stuff made up. The shoesmith was
enthusiastic over the quality of the leather.
“Did you bring this out with you, Madam/
he asked. The Australian declared that the
stuff was locally made. “I did hot know
Australian tanneries could turn out stuff
like that. Who made it?” He got the name
and a little lecture on the advisability ot
utilising Australian manufactures. *
“Togo” on chips and splinters :
“Karaji” (B. 12/7/’l7) is a bit off the track as
regards the injury done to the timber by leaving a
piece of bark on a telegraph pole till after inspection,
as required by the Postal Department. Poles are in-
spected too soon after felling to permit of any decay
setting in. The weak spot in all cases is at the
ground level, and the presence or absence of bark
lias no bearing on it.
As to blindfolded bushinen determining the timbers
by taste —well, I’m doubtful. I have spent years
buying sleepers, girders, piles, poles, etc., and more
years inspecting sticks for export (not for the Govern-
ment in either case), and I am open to back my
eyes—my palate isn’t too bad —against any blind-
folded taster in the Commonwealth. The best guides
are color, grain, smell (sometimes) and general
appearance. When met as barked poles some timbers
are at times as alike as bad heads after a night out;
then the bit of bark is something to be thankful
for. For our bushmen generally I have the greatest
respect; but a small minority are artists at doctoring
any stick, if by mischance it should turn out a
duffer when nearly finished; and these fakirs con-
sider an inspector fair game at any season.
I was once buying and inspecting white stringy
sleepers at the stump—it’s quite safe under certain
conditions —and started on a heap of about 50 at
all that was left of a stringy tree, surrounded by
sundry flitches of bark and chips galore. I branded
two, then became doubtful; closer investigation
proved they were clean young blaekbutt. Verdict:
“Out the lot.” The furious owner wanted to know
how the h —l he could get blaekbutt sleepers out of
a stringy tree (so'did I), and he drew my attention
to the stump, bark, chips, etc. After a polite argu-
ment in best Australian, he grinned guiltily and
sold them to me at the lower rate ruling for black-
butt in small quantities, and admitted that after
sending the stringy sleepers in to the depot he had
carried the blackbutts about 30 yards through the
bush, and deposited them at the stump where he had
squared the stringies. As to doctoring piles, girders,
etc., and snigging them through mud to hide then-
identity—well, let some other hammer-head have a
go.
* * * »
“D.F.”: If an ounce of doing is worth a
ton of saying, the Speck goes up top in the
ship-building contest. Purdon and Feather-
stone, of Hobart, have fixed up to build a
three-masted fore-and-aft schooner; evejry
stick in it will be Tasmanian timber except
the spars, which will be Oregon. These
people have already turned out 15 vessels,
running up to 204 tons, but this schooner
will be bigger—llsft. x 27ft. beam, with a
moulded depth of lift. They hope to have
ago at something bigger shortly. Finlay-
son’s, of Devonport (Tas.), say that they
are ready to start right away on a 2000-ton
vessel if the Federal people will quit talking
and get down to a business-proposal.
* * * *
“Beans”: When it comes to profiteering
the Melbourne seedsman has the shipping ring
skinned. I bought a pound :of broad beans
for my garden the other day, and the pirate
who sold them charged me Is. without mov-
ing an eyelid. When I recovered I reckoned
that- I w r as paying £3 for a bushel of
601 b., or £ll2 a ton. With beans worth
about 55., or a trifle over, a bushel, there
ought to be bread and butter in that. And
the suburban gardener, who is the best cus-
tomer, generally pays cash, so there isn’t the
worry of bad debts.
* * * *
“Good Australian" : The chief and most
beautiful feature of the Californian land-
scape is the eucalyptus. Gum-trees line the
great State highways from Seattle to San
Diego. Every ranch and farm possesses
from a dozen to a plantation of eucalypts.
They are regarded as the most ornamental
and valuable tree that can be planted. In the
great coastal cities, Portland, San Francisco
and Los Angeles, the city councils plant long
wide avenues of them, and in this land of per-
petual sunshine there is none better. Con-
tracts have been let to build 500 wooden
ships on the Pacific coast in 12 months for
the U.S.A. Government. So a census has
been taken by the timber-growers, and every
eucalypt ready to be cut will be used in the
shipyards. Really I believe it would pay to
start an export trade to Australasia from
California of hardwoods cut from the euca-
lyptus forests which abound. What a biting
commentary on our bad treatment of Aus-
tralia’s best product!
* * * *
The Cafe Dinkum has arrived in Bris-
bane. This war will leave us with fewer
crowns but more dictionary words.
* * * *
Slate roofing is being talked of again in
Adelaide. In the early days, when this
material was taken almost as a matter of
course, there were fine slate quarries at Wil-
lunga, 30 miles south ; but difficulty of trans-
port, and then the marked.cheapness of gal-
vanised-iron, knocked out the old industry
Aow that the imported stuff has soared from
-tii to £7O, and a railway to Willunga has
meanwhile been opened, the Australian pro-
duct ought to have a show —and not in S.
Aus. only, but in other States as well • for
most of them have good deposits
* ' *
“Milk-O”: High-priced cows? Well, just
sool the dogs on those already in the Buile-
tin stockyard, and I will lead four in for
inspection : No. 1, White Stockings iy
ii“s*Q J 205 , guineaB; No - 2 > Holden Fern’s
Maid (daughter of White Stockings) 160
guineas; No. 3, Susy’s Gambige (imp ) 155
guineas; No. 4, Maid of Gambige, ’ 102
guineas. E. J. Kirkwood, of Piakau Park
Stratford, Taranaki (M.L.), answering the
call to give the Kaiser a belt, disposed of his
Jersey herd, comprising 53 lots, at an aver-
age of 45J guineas, the highest-priced ani-
mals bringing as stated above. White
Stockings IV. goes to Melbourne, the pur-
chaser being C. D. Lloyd.
* * * *
“W.YV.” : I enter the Wallan (Vic.) hair-
dresser as the champion all-round tradesman.
He is ready to make or repair your boots,
mend your watch or clock or do any gold or
silversmith work; to paint your house, shear
your sheep, trap rabbits, or toot a brass con-
traption in the band. lie also runs a shop
and sells books and school requisites; but 1
have lost count of his side-lines.
The Northern Rivers people have now 3(i
cots endowed in the Alexandra Hospital for
sick children. Of these, five are the gift of
the North Coast commercial travellers. To
mark this —and with a sense of favors to
come—a recent meeting .of directors
announced its intention to christen one ward
“The North Coast Memorial.” Most of these
Northern Rivers cots are in memory of
gallant Australians killed in t otion.
The Suez Canal breed of fluke, which has
been imported to Australia in the blood of
returned soldiers, is having the attention of
Major Cherry, A.A.M.C., late Professor of
Agriculture at Melbourne Uni. Cherry, who
nowadays spends much of his time chasing
the new beastie around in the various States,
was closely associated with the researches
made in the years when sheep-fluke threat-
ened to ruin the wool-industry. He and his
colleagues conquered in those days, and they
hope to do the same with the new importa-
tion if the Defence Department doesn’t get
them all tangled up in its favorite shade of
red-tape just when they are drawing near
their quarry.
Alec McKay, formerly Govt. Geologist of
Maoriland, died the other day after a half-
century of usefulness. He did a lot of ex-
ploration work in the Mackenzie country,
South .Marlborough (M.L.), and while
amongst the snows of the Kaikouras erected
the first refrigerator in tin* Shaky Isles,
simply packing his meat in snow. He joined
the Geological Dept, in 1875 —12 years after
he landed in M.L. from Scotland via N. S.
Wales and Queensland, where he did some
gold-mining. lie was addicted to hard
thinking, and led the way in the production
of the telephoto lens, the long-range gun of
the camera.
Guido Baracchi, who has aroused the
patriotic ire of the Argus by writing some-
thing about “jingoes and junkers” in the
University Magazine, has in the past been
chiefly distinguished as the son of his father,
Vic. Government astronomer Pietro Baracchi.
Now he has his own little place in the Argus
pillorv beside Chaplain-general Mannix and
Percy Brookfield. In its first hasty con-
sideration of the matter the Argus referred
to Guido as an “irresponsible youngster,” he
being a University student and therefore a
much more tender intellectual blossom than
the young men who write the “patriotic”
screams about Mannix in the daily news-
papers. But Baracchi will never see 30
again. He is a narrow, pallid citizen of
youthful appearance, moneyed, occupying a
flat in Cdllins-street and having a penchant
for ice-skating. He has spent nearly half
his life at the Shop; with intervals of Grand
Touring, and he seems likely to mix things
like that until he goes bald or gets married.
“Exempt I don’t doubt the cable which
says that one of the masters captured when
the British destroyers the other day seized
German merchantmen stealing out of Rot-
terdam was a London pilot. In its blind
passion for Freetrade the Government, under
the Merchant Shipping Act, gave to foreign-
ers the right to free' pilotage even on foreign
ships. Other parts of the Empire followed
suit, and it was not until 1899 that N. S.
Wales woke to the fact that aliens had a
free run as pilots in its home ports. The
right was repealed, and in 1906 the Imperial
Parliament also altered its law on the sub-
ject. Aliens, as pilots, were barred in
future; but the certificates already issued
were honored. When war broke out the
Government had to pass a hasty War Pre-
cautions order to suspend these exemptions;
but this did not prevent German “English
pilots carrying their unique knowledge ol
British harbors to the place where it was
ca%ulated to be the most welcome.. Our
father Bull is a great hand at locking the
door after the animal has disappeared.
The L.M.P. League, which has been using
the supper-room and basement of the Mel-
bourne Town Hall as a factory and packing-
house since early in the war, has just started
making up Billjim’s Christmas parcel. The
last parcel is to be sent off next month, and
every soldier in the field, torpedoes and
transport permitting, is to have one this
time. Every few weeks a new device for
cash-raising is being tried by the League,
the latest being the cultivation of an empty-
tin and old-metals habit. So far in Melbourne
the most successful idea of the kind has
proved to be the garnering of waste paper. For
June Mrs. Charles Henderson (City Waste
Paper Fund) received £65 as the result of
the month’s work, which brings the total for
12 months up to £635. In Sydney the same
job is being done on behalf of blind soldiers.
“Rio”: Many military writers, including
the keen Boyd Cable, err in describing, the
metal contrivance which contains five British
service rifle cartridges as a “clip.” It®
correct name is “charger.” A clip and a
charger are almost identical in appearance,
but there is a difference in their functions.
In clip-loading rifles, e.g., the German
Mauser, the clip with its five cartridges goes
into the magazine and is not ejected until all
its contents have been fired. In charger-
loading rifles, like the British Lee-Enfield.
the charger does not enter the magazine at
all. . It is used as an aid to quick loading,
but is discarded before any of the cartridges
contained are fired. The slot in which the
charger is held while loading is called the
charger-guide, and the word clip is never
used in musketry instructions. Writers
are probably fumbling on a legacy of the
South African war. The Boers used the
clip-loading Mauser; the British with the
magazine Lee-Metford had no rapid loading
device.
THE PUMPKIN AND THE BOODLE-EER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Chamber of Commerce and the Grocers’
Association (Vic.) protested against Mr. McLeod’s
assertion that pumpkins and -other vegetables had
been used in jam-making.”
“The time has come,” the Pumpkin said,
“To talk of many things,
Like jam and fruit and Ministers
And sugar, trusts and ring?—•
If apricots from turnips spring
Through fact’ry monkeyings!”
The Turnip sighed: “It’s very hard
To get a knock like this.
For years the jam-man’s raised on ns
His business edifice,
And twenty jams were based upon
Our metamorphosis.”
“I could have borne,” the Marrow sobbed,
“The Commerce Chamber’s ban :
To keep us somewhat out •of sight
i Was aye the makers' plan.
The Judas-dog- that flames our wrath’s
The thankless grocer-man ! ”
/‘Such want of faith,” chipped in the Swede,
“ ’Twould make a wurzel wince!
How many a trader owes to us
His rise to merchant-prince,
Through selling you as ‘melon-mixt’
And me as ‘plum’ and ‘quince.’
“We even reach a higher plane
When business custom suits,
And labelled ‘Rasp.’ or ‘Apricot’
Disguise our attributes • '
In shrinking microscopic type
As ‘other wholesome fruits’!”
V-
“We did not mind,” the Pumpkin wept,
“Relinquishing our name,
And being jam or jelly, but
It hurt us, all the same;
And when they called us ‘mixed’ conserve
We shed our pips with shame.”
'■‘Now may the Law,” the Marrow stormed,
“That wretched grocer bleed!
With fifty fines .for brumniy jam
May he be pilloried!”
“And may he have to eat it,” said
The Turnip and the Swede.
VICTORIA.
C. LLEWELLYN GRIFFITHS.


V/
tested
r ./
7
5 «Itv £>-
Jul*
,IQA£> lioil pi(J
noS oxw"
lh<zse Rectifiers &re suifeHe
for on 240 Volts
50 cycle AC circuib.
M&xirriurn output 7- 5 Amp's
15-5 Volb D-C.
m
m
m
m
753
H
♦KvV
Bn
1
invite your best girl and her moiher out for a. days run
in the car and find • just as you were ready to start -
that one of the byres wanted pumping up - and that
you'd forgotten to get your battery recharged. ?
ffow many times hari you forgotten to take that
wretched battery into town ?
YOU COULD HAVE SAVED ALL THAT
TROUBLE if /ou’d had smUl
s.s "MERCURY"ARC RECTIFIER instiled.
ihen you could hai/e re charged your badteries
in your own garage aund if you’d had a
MASTER GARAGE PUMP; to inflate tKe
tyre would have been the matter of a moment.
IE
a
■
—» •
fl
■
mj
Ik“MASTER' GARAGE PUMP(modelß)
The equipment consists of & two cylinder pump
&nd direct - cou pi e d rn otor. m ounted to gether
on & suitable, bbse . EXch. outfit is furnished
with 2-0 feet of rubber bir hose with pressure
QbUQe : adso flexible cord -with plu^.
It Yiill inflate b 57m x sin lyre to 90 lbs pressure
in less thbn three minutes.
A smdl noezle to fit on he end of he hose is hlso
provided,so Ihci the pump msy be used for
out dust bnd dirt from obscure pbjrts of ct^r.
Write for further p&riicule^rs.
Are gou <a lousiness Man
Hcjve tjoii ever-
ip;
Wa
i^
t gone into the office during this winter fell
* cold dl d&y hna shivered &nd wasted time by
pelting up from your desk to <About to Keep
finally sneexed, fcjrd gone home with
cold in the .?
YOU COULD HAVE SAVED ALLTHAT
TROUBLE if you’d W ELECTRIC
RADIATOR installed.
room v/ould Vwd &.nice even
temperre . you would certainly h<xve felt
more comfortedde Endin abetter of
mind ' no doubt you would hwve got Ihrough.
more work.
Its not too k&te now.
Ring up -or run the vr&y to the AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC COT W pKcc your order.
Australian- General ElectrioG
Wentworth Av Sydney, O? of Queen c. Little Collins StMelbourne.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd.. Launceston; Messrs. Oliver
and Oliver, MaeQuarie Street. Hobart.
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (K.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. <W -V>. Ltd.. Hay Street.- .
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone. 100 Currie Stieet.


SILVER, /Px GOLD,
m
sr
£7/10-
£2
a
-
A. Saunders’ Double-case Solid Silver Hunt-
ing-Keyless Watch, full chronometer balance,
patent non-magnetie time spring, accurate
and reliable, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-,
£4, £5. Solid gold, £7/10/-> £B/10/-,
£lO, £l5, £2O. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
boat-shape Ring,
ISct. sold,
£7/10/*
Smaller diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent s
pure double cut
diamond Ring,
18et. gold,
A. Saunders’ pine double cut diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £-1/10/-
: s
ar«
•M
•>
if. .1
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watcli, jewelled lever movement, £3/ 107-
Others, £4, JC 4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/--, £B/10/-,
£lO. All guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS, Diamond Merchant.
A. Saunders’ 8
double cut dia-
mond circle spray
Brooch, £3/15/-
A. Saunders' pure double cut diamonds or rubies and
sapphires Gold Bracelet. 15ct. '
Diamonds and olivines, £l2/10/-
All diamonds, £l5/-
A. Saunders' 3
double cut diamond
circle Brooch,
loct. gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Cross-over Ring,
18ct. gold, £lO.
Smaller diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders' pure
doutale cut diamond
Ring, 18ct. gold,
A. Saunders’ Diamonds and Rubv Brooch,
15et. gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£3O.
A. Saunders' pure
double out diamond
Ring, £lO.
We Forward All
Orders Post Free.
m
A. Saunders’ pure
double eut diamond
cluster Ring, 18ct.
gold, £2O. £25.
Diamonds & rubies
or sapphires,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ diamonds
and pearls Necklace,
15ct. gold, £JO. All
diamonds, £l5.
A Saunders’ diamonds and pearls, rubies or
Bracelet, 15et. gold, £7/107-
sapphires
A. Saunders’ three pure white double cut Diamond
Bar Brooch, 15ct. gold, £lO, £l2/10/-, -tlo-
Five diamonds. £l5, £2O, *25. Single diamond
£3/10/-, £5/10,'-, £7, according to
diamonds.
of
Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
half-hoop R 3. “
18ot. gold, £5.
Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Cross-over Ring,
IBct. gold, £2O.
Smaller diamonds,
£ts.
A.
Saunders’
Brooch,
pure double cut diamond Bar
15ct. gold, £4/tO/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Rinsf, 18ct. sold,
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
cluster Ring, 18ct.
gold, £lO.
Send for Illustrated
Gift Book, Free-
—vfc l
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
half-hoop 15 in",
1 get. sold,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805 815 George Street, Sydney
("Opposite Railway
Station).
SILVER,
25/-
COLD,
£3
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Hunting Key-
less Watch, jewelled lever move-
ment, compensation balance.
Silver, 25/-, 30/-, £2, £2/10/-.
Oct. gold, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-,
£5. 18ct. gold, £B/10/-,
£lO, £l5. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ gent’s
pure double cut
diamond King,
18ct, gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut diamond
Cross-over Ring,
18ct. gold,
£5/10/-
Diamonds and
rubles, £3/10/.
A. Saunders’ pure double cut • diamond Bar
Brooch, loot, gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s loct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, set
with olivines, redstones or pearls, £l2/10/-.
£l5, £l7/10/-. Diamonds and rubies, t2O. \ll
diamonds, £3O, £lO, £5O, according- to size of
diamonds.
.
SSSS
n
m
m
&
4'
ye
Can
Stop that Husky Croak!
EVANS
ROAT
PastiUes
Sore Throats quickly
yield to treatment which
removes the cause by killing
the germ.
Evans, Sons, Lescher & Webb, Ltd London.
tHERE ARE HEAVIER* FLUFFIER AND CHEAPER
thaM
css
SHORT NAP
WELL TWISTEO YARN
BUT NONE WILL GIVE SUCH
lasting SATISFACTION
SEE
“HORROCKSES"’
ON
SELVEDGE
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OF NATURE AND 1 i&FSTRATFD
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 3.0
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. MebriE
England". Bd. .Jlow to Get Rich, 1/- posted.
De Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/C. Ned Don-
nelly's Art op Honing, new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, 1/3. How to Dance, 1/- posted.
How to Wrestle, 1/3. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2 posted, Thurston's C ard
Tricks. 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic
Reciter, 1/3 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist.
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, lOd. ; AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/C.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1 6. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, .1/6.” Quadrille Call Book. 2 .
Adventures of a Flirt, 1,3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/3. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1 2.
Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1 5. The Yoke,
by Hubert Wales. 1/3. Tricks and Diversions
with Cards, illus., 1 3. BeAuty’s secrets, post
free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. llow to Make
Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science of Life.
12/6. Australian Miner’s Guide, (simple tests
for minerals, 3/9. Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling
Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure Guide), price 1 /-,
post 1/3. How to Become Quick at Figures, 11.
Will Power (Personal Magnetism), 1 - posted.
SandoW’s Book of Strength, 3/6 posted. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 4/3 posted. Mysteries of
Paris. 1/6. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. 12 -. Practical Gas
and Oil Engine Handbook, 5-. Not Guilty
(Blatchford), lOd. The Art of Jiu-Titsu. 9d. A
1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9.1. Britain for
the British, 9d. How to Read Fai es, 1 0. How
to train for all Sports, 1 •!. Diseases of
Horses, 1/6. French Polishing A Staining. 1/6.
Photography Self-taught. 13. Mow to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. Nk". Tricks with
Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting A Papering.
1/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 12 6.
Australian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1 6.
m
m
K
m
%
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
' By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Elates. 36 C'hromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 page'
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exist'. Here are answered, in plain
language, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of
young and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in con-
sulting their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable
interesting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a
very superior gunle to the action of men and women both iii
and out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates i
bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest
sense, can afford to dispense with the information embrace! 1
in its covers. The new 2mh Century edition just arrived'
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
doth-covered edition of this ereat work. It will be nostnd
AW address for TEN SHILLINGS.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH,
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions. 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/8. Metal-working for
Amateurs. Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, Ac-.,
1/0 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1 /(). That Rascal Gustave, 1/-, posted 1/3.
Camille, 1.6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano,
1-. Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette. 1 3. Hoyle's Card Games (Rules for
all Gannsi, 1-. How to Mesmerise, 1/0. Man
from Snowy River. 4 -. Poultry Keeping. 1/3
posted. Parlor Magic. 1<- posted. The White
Slave Traffic. 1 Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 13. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator. 1 The Doctor (Cuius for all
Diseases). 13 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date.
1/6 posted. Speechts 4- Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy. 16 posted. Kelly Gang of
Rushkangers, illustrations and portraits, 1 - ;
i
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new) 5 -
Self-Instructor : Every Max His Own School-
Master 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
BOOI C 1/6. Complete Book-keeping, ?/6 Tiff
of Deeming, illustrated. 1/1. How Me Doug all
Topped the Score, & Other Verses i/3
T rench Self Taught, 1/2. Waxnan’s Pxr.vY
John” *Joh xs *°l / 6 of
Heptamf.rox,’ and many alT
posted. Lees Priceless Recipes, 1/6 L te d
M omens Secrets, 1 - posted. Gay Liff ,x M •
bourne. 1/- posted. The Woman of Firf -
AH tliese prices Post Paid. ' " ~ '
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others 1
your cash. nr Established
ONLY A SMAL.Ii I OKA OF MY STOCK CAN
OK GOT FROM THIS VDYT.
Write for my
B>g Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT |\' STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY.
am book advertised elsewhere sent.
i 1 M ' KK ’ Illustrated Guide'to the Stage,
, oste^,, NEW IRUKS "ith Cards, U Summio,
Mi Zn ’« li ° LU . Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
1,. /. M b O ,¥ I "" IFE * Handbook, 92 practical illus-
dov's'p - /6 ‘ Arist <>tle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay (ion
ions poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
Hude to auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
\v,,, rC n ” T 0F l:x '' LAN, ». 1/6 posted. Lovers’ Letter
riter i.. all About Incubators, 1/6. Mon
W w v KM ’ w,,x '“ r Exposed, Kev to all Degrees
~,, “r 1 . tl ® n > 1 6 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
no ’ Posted. lokology, 7/6 post. Ingkrsoll’k Works.
nn '4 a j ** n H°\\ to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1 '<»
Bread of'n®’ 8 Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Bfvv»rp T ’-» Thk " ' f K S Handbook, 12 posted.
Fruits op pf CFAnnKNV WoRKS - al » »•« '» « posted.
■- F I HiLosorm, 1/- posted. 100 New Recita-
iriF l- Nervousness and Its
_ lasted. Webster’s Large l nab ridged
mv niovf Vo ’ ,tl(l 1600 illus., leather HouikL
Booth *’ ’ 1 os * P ;| id (wliv pav 3 and 4 guineas?).
Electro- 1 m ASD 13. Dynamos and
,x' [<n ' ~!s - 1 " s - Moore’s I’m vers yl \ssist-
hoiiuri i"i * '’Oetk Mechanic. 1016 pages, (doth
1 V, i ' Posted. The Secrets ok Clairvoyance,
comnwV’ V“° 0 Hld-timf. Songs (words and music,
PiiVV V} (> D os ted. Tin: Age of Heyson. bv
Fame, posted f*d. W RITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the B !g book store, 67 g 69 Mafke{
Street, Sydney (onlvi.


Amusements.
Harry IticUnrds Tivoli Theatres J.tcl.
Coverning Director .... HUGH D. McTNTOSH.
T
V O I. I
THEATII K.
SVn X E Y
EVENINGS 8; MATINEES WEDS. AND SATS.
An Epoch in Vaudeville.
COLOSSAL SUCCESS OF MISS
ADA EE EVE,
World's most famous Comedienne and a brilliant
Vaudeville Co.
ipiVOLI THEATRE. MELBOUKNE.
all star vaudeville.
CAMILLE TRIO, MARTIN AND BOGGS, JOE
REED FRANCIS PEDRUZZI, CLYDE COOK,
THURBER AND THUftBER, MABEL MORGAN,
NKLUSCO AND HURLEY. ALVIN AND WILLIAMS,
ARCHIE OURI, VAUDE AND VERNE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/- 2/- and 1/-.
c
IiITERION
Direction J.
T H EA T It E. SYDNEY.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
FAREWELL EIGHT NIGHTS.
MARIE TEMPEST,
England’s Greatest Comedy Aetrcts, in Henry Arthur
Jones’s last Comedy,
MARY GOES FIRST.
GRAHAM BROWNE in association.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
THE MOST WONDERFUL DRESS DISPLAY EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
CANARY COTTAGE.
The last word in loveliness and liveliness.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pAL A C E THEATRE, SYDX E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SYDNEY JAMES and JACK WALLER
present the Second Edition of
LOOK WHO’S HERE.
The Musical and Mirthful Hit of the Season.
A NEW EDITION EVERY FRIDAY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
9
T RIAN Gli 12 PI AYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Ycm haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
ISI T O R~S T O 8YI)N E Y.
An addressed, stamped envelope will bring to
you by return mail a list of current attractions at
principal Sydney Theatres, etc.
WHAT'S ON? ADVERTISING CO.,
B5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 4.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present for the
time in Australia the Brilliant Musical Play,
THE RED WIDOW.
The Musical Play of Perennial Popularity.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
first
f II E A T R l >
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
.T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATHLENE MACDONELL
In JEAN WEBSTER’S Full o’ Smiles Play,
DADDY LONG LEGS.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOU It N E.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present their Specially
Augmented English Comedy Drama Co. in
OUT THERE.
J. Hartley Manners’ New Grippinglv Human Play of
Thrills and Laughter.
SARA ALLGOOD AS ’AUNTED ANNIE. .
Box Plans at Allan’s.
MELBOURNE.
pUINCESS’S THEATRE,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE,
in
THE STORY OF THE ROSARY.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
tllE AUDITORIUM, melbourn e.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, AUGUST 2.
Also August 4, 9 (MatinSe), and 11.
RETURN OF THOSE FAVORITE SINGERS,
EVELYN HOWARD
SCOTNEY, WHITE,
Australia's Brilliant Songbird. The Popular Basso.
Plan at Allan’s.
(MAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
,TI COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
CIIAULI I? CHAPLIN,
in his New Mutual Corned}',
THE IMMIGRANT.
YOU’LL LAUGH.
Plan at Allan’s.
MELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICIC.
BRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
IF anybody charges you more than Gd. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 Gs. Gd. to 214 George Street. Sydney, and
it will he posted to jou for one year.
What this
figure
means
V
v\\
m
It expresses in an attitude the aim
and ambitions of David Moseley &
and Sons, Ltd. It stands for experience,
for skill, and integrity. In an
advertisement it is the mark of
a trustworthy announcement.
For more than 84 years
Moseleys have been
handling rubber and
experimenting with
rubber. It is a long
time# but it is not
too long to learn the
"temperament'* of rubber.
And the result of this rare
experience Is the Moseley
Motor Tyre—its high ex'
cellence and its low price.
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer.
If you fmd any difficulty in obtaining
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams: “Grear,” Sydney.
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
C.W H.
il.I.
milE thing that the people should have
i been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
(GPILLdRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
The ideal preparation
for growing those
short, stubby mous-
taches affected by
the military is un-
doubtedly Cap i 1-
lari n e. Hundreds
have proved its un-
failing merit. Send
for a Jar to-day.
Price 10/6 Jar-Post Free.
Craig 8 Aitktn.
Established over SO years.
still may get a licking. Are you
let the Ravisher of Belgium win
lifting a hand?
going to
without
©
This is a Food-Drink (Milk, "
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
J29o9.—Garnet,
Peridot and
Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold Pendant,
Price 21/-
LATEST
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
€6390. —Fine Quality
Amethyst and Pearl
Set Isct. Gold Brooch.
Price £3/15/-
Charming Gifts
in Gem Jewellery
At Stewart Dawson’s.
The name of Stewart Dawson is a guarantee of
reliability in all that pertains to Gem Jewellery,
and our prices show a SUBSTANTIAL SAVING
by comparison.
♦
9\
C6B9O.—HIGH-GRADE KKYE E S S LEVER
WATCH, Fully Jewelled, with Patent Expandinar
Bracelet. Price, 9ct. Gold, £7/7/-
16ct. Gold, £lO/10/-
STEWART
DAWSON’S,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
P 2087.—Tur-
quoise and Pearl
or Pink Tourma-
line and Pearl
Set 9ct. Gold
Pendant. Price
35/-
LATEST
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
C 6749. —Fine Quality
Amethyst and Pearl Set
15ct. Gold Brooch.
Price, £5/5/-
Missing Friends.*
ANY person knowing anything in refer-
ence to JAMES MCKENZIE, a Sta-
tion Hand, who left Deniliquin, N.S.W*, for
Wilcannia, about the year 1873, and who, is
believed to be dead, will oblige by communi-
cating any information to his sou.
JAMES .T. McIvENZIE,
Union Club Hotel,
Deniliquin, N.S.W.
Address wanted.—miss addie
CROSSMAN, who visited her friends
in Kerang, February, 1916. Urgent. Apply
Mr. F. STEWART, Kerang.
Business Notices.
ABBEY'
SHOES!
If yon want high-quality footwear,
that is correct and smart in appear-
ance —that will give you long ser-
vice and comfort, wear Abbey
Shoes.
We illustrate a special highest-
grade Patent Derby Shoe. A
smart “made-to-order'’ style.
Price - 40/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Stocked in half- and full-sizes, and
in narrow, medium and wide
fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
s
A TIN OF CALOX
is yours-freei
Calox, the Oxygen Tooth Powder,
following up its remarkable suooos>
in Britain and America, is daily gain
ing in favor with the A'wrraiian public.
c
McK & R
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
liberates oxygen when it comes in
contact with the mouth. This oxy
gen penetrates into the cavities ami
destroys germs and dangerous acids
which are out of reach ot' the
ordinary dentifrice and brush; com-
pletely removes the cause of decay
and imparts a natural fragrance to the
breath. Calox is supplied in a hand-
some, non-wasting, nickel-top con-
tainer. A BIG SAMPLE TIN
will be mailed free on receipt of your
name and address, attached to this
ad., with two penny stamps enclosed
to cover postage. Write Calox Dept.,
Geo. Wills and Co. Ltd., 480 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Calox is procurable from
All Chemists and Leading Stores.
F. 2/S/’l7.


HOYT’S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2.ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
IDEAL FILM PLAYS.—The all-British-made Filins, showing one week
before any other Theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices- Gd
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
& 1/-;
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Git
*2
FREE
TRIAL
bottle
Chest
Affections.
Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Influenza
Prescribed by the medical profession for twenty-five
years, Angier s Emulsion is now universally recognised
as a standard approved treatment for colds, coughs
ronchitis, influenza, asthma, consumption, and for all
catanhal affections of the respiratory or digestive organs,
ngiers Emulsion is soothing and healing to throat,
ungs, stomach and intestines, and it has a most invigor-
ating tonic influence unon the general health. Pleasant
o a e and equally useful for children or adults, it is an
invaluable household remedy for chest affections.
» <^l iS ss * postage, and mention this paper
ANGIEa CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney. N S W
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Phevvsion Government’s own friends
bear cynical and unblushing testimony to its
shamelessness. What can an honest man
think of this, from the Sydney Telegraph ?
The Government has kept steadily in mind the
political effect of the [war-time profits] tax, and on
that ground has lifted the Bill over a large variety
of interests that may have .made war-time profits, but
would be very dangerous collectively if it w T as
attempted to force them to return any to the
Treasury.
Evidently poor old Bigjohn Forrest doesn’t
.vet realise that, when the storm breaks, and
this shameless, policy is execrated, he is going
to be made the scapegoat. It will be his
bill then.
THE ADVANTAGE OF A NAVAL
CAREER.
FIRST FILE: “Say, how about joinin' th’
Navy?”
SECOND FILE: “Good idea! No flamin’
route marches THERE!”
Britain, groaning under her burden, has
given the Win-the-War Ministry pretty
plainly to understand that as she is finding
the cash —immediate or deferred—for all
war purposes, she must be allowed to say
what she’ll pay for the stuff she is asked to
buy. And she has learned at what price
suitable stuff can be produced, too. The
first thing she tells Australia she can’t afford
to take at the old price is Australian-made
small-arm ammunition; she is now supply-
ing Russia at about one-third the figure that
is asked for Australian-made cartridges. As
a result 1250 workers of Footscray, the
home of Australian munitions-making, find
themselves without a job at a day’s notice,
with every possibility of another 1150, the
balance of those working at the trade, being
put off shortly. There are also hints that
Britain must come to the same conclusion
with regard to Australian equipment of other
kinds —equipment which heretofore she has
accepted in spite of its price. It is all a
very serious matter for Australia, and it
ought to set somebody thinking hard. If
our output is so tremendously high-priced
if cartridges, for instance, cost three times
as much as Britain can produce and sell
them for —what is the reason?
Hughes gets a hint now and then about
how to win the war. Nearly two years ago
Lloyd George said that we could help best
by making things for ourselves instead of
loafing on Britain. But, like the youngster
who “wants to do something” but isn’t pre-
pared to do the small domestic job, Australia
has profited little by the hint; wherefore
last week the British Ministry of Munitions
knocked off its big job for a minute to send
Hughes word that he really mustn’t depend
on England for boot-protectors any longer.
QUICK!
“I believe Bronson is looking for a cashier."
“But he got a new one only last week.”
“That’s the one he is looking for.”
In Victoria 1367 persons or companies found
themselves during 1912-13 with taxable in-
comes aggregating £9,439,000. By this year
five had found the struggle to keep in this
class too much and only 1362 were left. Still
these managed to appropriate £10,963,000
between them. Thus the average income of the
wretched citizens coming within this cat-
egory ascended from £6905 to £8049. Now,
wherever a start.,may be made in fixing a
pre-war standard of profits, it is a certain
thing that since the war 1362 large concerns
in Victoria can show an average profit in-
creased by £1144, and that whatever else this
may mean there is no doubt of there being
£1,558,12S war-time profits on the Victorian
premises. A tax of 75 per cent, on that
would yield £1,168,596. And then every
individual and business with an income of
less than £2200 is left out. Yet working
over all Australia Bigjohn Forrest reckons
he can get only £450.000 a year. Instead of
using a • net Bigjohn seems to be fishing
with a post-and-rail fence.
This is how they talked when the war
was young (speech by Booker, a squatter, in
the Queensland Assembly, August 11, 1914) :
I have discussed the question of prices during the
last few days with a great number of cattle- and
sheep-breeders, and I have not met one man who has
not stated that he would be prepared to sign an
agreement fixing the price for the output during the
war at the mean basis price of a week previous to
the outbreak of war. That is the sentiment in the
heart of almost every cattle- and sheep-breeder.
The price was then 255. per cwt.; in
Queensland now it is about 455., and still
there is an outcry against the Ryan Govern-
ment for so fixing prices that the Northern
meat-grower is making nothing by compari-
son with the Southern pastoralist. Famili-;
arity with the war has bred contempt in
the profiteer for most of the fine patriotic
sentiments it started off with. But that is
no reason why the instinctive justice of the
early sentiments shouldn’t still be recognised
by the Government which has to finance the
war.
It transpired last week that the Federal
Government intends to “spend millions” on
building ships; that arrangements had been
made with various unions not to strike while
the vessels were under construction, and to
toil on a system of piecework and dilution ;
that directions had been given for the accu-
mulation of material and the States requested
to get their slips cleared. The next thing to
hear about is the thing which really counts
the actual building programme. On the
speed with which the ships can be turned
out should depend their character. _ If we
can produce ocean-going vessels inside, say,
six months they m.ght well be of a much
poorer type than any that it would be worth
putting into the water 12 or 18 months hence.
If we cannot produce anything in less than
12 months or so, then it would be far better
to spend a few months more in building
something that will be of permanent value.
A very proper desire to send John Bull some
of our wheat should not blind the Govern-
ment to the fact that shipbuilding is going
soon to be one of the world’s greatest indus-
tries, and that Australia should be preparing
to get the technical equipment together for
a start at the right place. It would be a
calamity to see time and money wasted on a
few archaic punts unless there is positive
assurance that they can be launched very
promptly.
If the Commonwealth Government is
“bound to recognise the vote of the people
on Conscription,” and if voluntary enlist-
ment is the policy of the country,
then it is time we began to be
honest about it all. We are claim-
ing that under voluntary enlist-
ment we are getting now 5900 men
per month ; and is it worth while,
N. S. Wales Attorney-General
Hall asked The Bulletin last
week, to make a commotion
throughout the country for the
sake of securing an additional
30,000 men a year? The truth is
that we haven’t got the voluntary
system. We are not getting 5000
men a month by it. What we
have got is a mean, . underhand,
backstairs system of compulsion.
Eligible men are being sacked for
not enlisting; and the citizen who
dared to give reasons why he and
others should not line up would
be promptly arrested. Amid
public applause the other day in
Melbourne a man was fined
heavily for supplying a recruiting-
agent with an alleged reason why he and
others like him should not enlist. We are
living a life of national humbug and hypoc-
risy. And we are going to suffer for it.
Says Melbourne Age on the Federal situ-
ation :—-
The lapse of three months has sufficed to show
that in the matter of war service the policies of both
parties at the elections were similar.
But why should it take “the lapse of three
months” to show that the policies at the
elections were the same? It is nearer the
truth that, as all the social and financial in-
fluence was on one side, it took the Age three
months to pluck up courage to bark with
any other pack.
“Private Room”: Webster last week ex-
plained how the Postal Department has been
economising. He didn’t mention this case. A
year ago a fourth-class clerical posi-
tion in a country town became vacant.
Instead of immediately filling it, a
fifth-class officer was sent relieving.
Had the fourth-class man been ap-
pointed immediately his salary would
have been £245 per annum. For 10
months the fifth-class officer (salary
£222) received relieving allowance at
the rate of 30s. per week, together with
the difference between his own pay and
the pay attaching to the position. It
amounted in all to £l3 a month over
and above his ordinary pay. Thus in
the 10 months the Department squan-
dered £l3O which it could have saved
by promptly promoting a senior fifth-class
man to the job.
F. N. Yarwood, the accountant who has
a commission from the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment to find out if the Sydney Ferries are
reasonably entitled to increased fares, said
the other day that he had to take the capital
as it stood —he couldn’t assume that the co.
had not been entitled to increase its capital
by issuing bonus shares. And, as the law
stands, he was no doubt right. But ought a
co. handling a public utility to be entitled
to issue bonus shares? If directors want
more capital they can and sometimes do
hang on to profits, and it is as fair to give
shareholders stock for that money as it is to
give it in return for money got directly
from the shareholders. That kind of “water-
ing” is quite legitimate. But often —and the
Sydney Ferries was a case in point—the co.
is making so much profit that the directors
are afraid to disclose it for fear of an outcry ;
and when they capitalise that kind of profit
the public (if the co. is operating a public
utility) has a grievance. The grievance in
the case of the Sydney Ferries isn’t, how-
ever, that these people are charging too
much to-day; it is that they charged too
much some years ago. And they wouldn’t
have done it if they hadn’t been entitled m.
law to capitalise profits, disclosed and other-
wise.
Willie Watt has found a new use fm
Prime Ministers and other Federal politi-
cians. He proposes to name various sta-
tions on the East-and-West railway after
them. As an old hand at the game Willie
knows the most appropriate labels for places
where things can be side-tracked.
In a poll of 7668 votes Tom Thrower wou
the Macquarie seat-for the P.L.L. at the
recent N.S.W. State elections with a maio-
rity of 130. But Thrower having died in
the meantime there was a by-election last
week and 6754 electors sauntered to the poll
where Paddy McGirr, the P.L.L. candidate
had 288 more supporters than the Ministerial
nominee—the man who was beaten by
Thrower in March. Wherefore McGirr said
it was the turn of the tide and the other
chap said he had rotten Dad luck. Whatever
it was the strength of parties was not
affected, and McGirr, who polled 478 votes
less than were registered for Thrower, seems
to have won because his opponent on this
occasion polled 536 less than he did before.
Here and there in Britain people begin to
wonder whether, after all, we are not some
sort of a loafer and a sponge. London
Times, for instance, the other week pointed
out that, though we are calling on Britain
for money, both in the way of loans and for
the purchase of products before they are
shipped, we are really better off than Britain:
Thus the Broken Hill Prop. Co. placed £400,000
of debentures in Australia recently more cheaply
than the London issue of £600,000 made in July,
1914, despite the rise in the value of money since
then.
The refusal of the British Government to
take any more Australian small-arm ammu-
nition at the old Australian price is a straw
that shows whicn way British official opinion
is running. It is a broad hint that we had
better start to pull in our belt and depend
upon our own resources.
The Vic. State Parliament has been con-
vulsed by a “crisis,” in which only its
own members show r ed any sort of interest.
To taxpayers in general it remained a matter
of indifference whether the Peacock Govern-
ment was pushed out at the instance of the
Labor party, or by the machinations of a
Liberal member with the unfortunate name of
Bowser, or was not pushed out at all. It was
not pushed out at all. Parliament House
and the Government offices thrilled with the
news that one more want-of-confklence
motion had been defeated, but the crowd that
mostly pays the piper cared not twopence.
The loudest complaint against the Peacock
Government is that it charges too much and
gives too little. But there is no likelihood
of any other Government selected from the
same Parliament making a considerable re-
duction in expenditure or a solid increase in
results. The men to do good deeds make
good deeds done; and such men are not
available. In a gathering of loud profes-
sional talkers, elected for their loquacity
rather than for their capacity as organisers
and directors of large undertakings, the
loudest talker has reasonable pretensions to
ON THE
SOMME.
VOICE FROM DUGOUT : “Say. Sill, if yer
going down past Dead Dorg. yer might
take a pick and sandbag with yer and
bring back some water."
kingship. Few talkers are louder than Pea-
cock when he gets full steam up, so why sub-
stitute another man for Peacock in the
present House of Blather?
KERENSKY THE KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bitter breeze, Demoeraey,
Through Europe blowing, blowing,
Is shaking" every burdened tree
And down the fruit is throwing.
And from the boughs the kings are thinned
That linger there forgotten;
That fruit before this ruthless wind
Is over-ripe and rotten.
Dentoeracy, this bitter breeze,
Is potent and impartial; •
It has no reverence for these
Toy Emperors unmartial,
Who win the battles others planned—
Could anything be stranger?
They flglit, but not in No Man's Land;
They lead, where there’s no danger 1
A has! these kings in cotton-wool,
Who to real kings succeeded!
And Vive! the king who yet can rule!
We’ll throne the man who’s needed!
So mankind picks a common Man,
A petty law-court pleader;
And crowns him, as alone she can,
Democracy’s true leader!
When soldiers waited for the word,
lie did not pose in ermine;
llis life, and Russia's too, he dared:
He leaped to charge the German 1
And what insignia had he?
This answer we arrive at:
Kerensky had the bravery
Of any common private!
With that mere act his reign began;
His courage now has shown him
No empty effigy,
And so a king we throne him!
While thrones about him quake and fall,
And trembles he of Prussia,
He rises kingliest of all,
Kerensky, Lord of Russia!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


“Bookstall” Novels
are
Front-Line Favorites.
BUSH
DON
DELANEY
This letter is from an A.I.F. man in
France:—
“It would surprise you to see the
number of ‘Bookstall’ novels over
here. Why, even on this box at my
side, are ‘The Recipe for Rubber'’
‘That Droll Lady,’ ‘Rung In,’ and
‘Gamblers’ Gold.’ And I think they
have earned their price, for they
have been read by all our men.”
Recently The Bulletin set out to discover what was the most popular reading in
the firing-line. I his was the reply from the O.C. of one battalion:
■ .“There is a great hankering after anything Australian; anti
I think the ‘Bookstall’ Series would please Billjim more than
anything else.” '
" Bookstall " Novels are the best work of Australian Novelists.
Over 1,500,000 “BOOKSTALL”
Novels have already been sold .
AH One Pricey //- each; 11 posted.
A few of the Authors represented in the “Bookstall” series:—
Louis Beeke. Edward Dyson, Randolph Bedford. .T. H. M. Abbott, Steele Rudd
Ralph Stock, Norman Lindsay, Thos. E. Spencer, John Sandes, Arthur Wright’
Roy Bridges, Ambrose Pratt, E. J. Brady, M. Forrest, A. G. Stephens.
NINETY GREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
A FEW FAVORITES:—
‘ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
‘STELLA SOTHERN,”
By I. A. ROSENBLUM.
•IN THE LAST STRIDE,”
By ARTHUR WRIGIIT.
A BACHELOR’S WIFE,”
By M. FORREST.
‘ABORIGINALITIES,”
From The Bulletin.
‘FOR TURON GOLD,”
By DON DELANEY.
‘THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
By JOHN X. CAMERON.
LOVES OF LANCELOT,”
By EDWARD DYSON.
‘THE POOR PARSON,”
By STEELE RUDD.
Soiul a Shilling “Bookstall” Novel to your friend on active service—it will
be appreciated.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 Georgs Strest,
SYDNEY.
Electric and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
Electric Meters
and Instruments
4k-
rl
V
*SS
Meters and Instruments of all types are designed,
manufactured, and tested at Trafford Park,
Manchester, by the British NVestinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
I here are sufficient types for you to select one
exactly suited to your requirements whether for
switchboard or portable use.
1 hey are sensitive without being delicate and
perfectly dead beat.
They embody all the latest improvements in their
design and construction. They are given a high
grade finish and present a pleasing appearance.
They combine ideal simplicity with permanent
accuracy, unimpaired by temperature changes,
throughout a long - life.
Portable types are compact and light, in neatly
finished dust-proof cases.
The accuracy of Westinghouse meters is a safe-
guard against loss of revenue and their use reduces
inspection and maintenance costs to a minimum.
The highest grade of measuring instruments is
the only grade for your purpose.
SEND YOUR ENQUIRIES TO NEAREST OFFICE.
t
m
M anchesier
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd.,
77. King Street, Sydney..
Elder, Shenton & Co.. Ltd.,
Williams Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co,. Ltd..
27-31, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents in New Zealand : Turnbull and Jones, Ltd.,
Wellington, Auckland. Christchurch, and Dunedin.
MiiiiiiiiniiiiMiiimmimmiimimimmmmmmimimmmiiimmmmmimmmmmiiiiiiii
Worlts TraTford Park, Manchester. England.
THE SECRET of the DIFFERENCE
between DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS and other Remedies.
There seems to be a weakness m Human Nature to try everything new that comes along,
but in every case those making these trials find something lacking in the definite results. Still,
Human Nature wants to try the new thing. This is so well known that certain clever people
are continually bringing new remedies, or rather old ones, which have been tried and failed, with
new names, to catch these inquisitive folk. Most of these things have little or no merit, and are
tried once or twice and then discarded. When the Public continues to take a remedy like
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills year in and year out, there is a good reason why.
They try the other things but soon find something wanting, and they come back to the reliable
remedy that they can depend on. There is no use saying, “Don’t waste your money experiment-
ing,” because it will be waste of time. Try these things by all means. Try internal lubricants and
fill your system with mineral oil to do the work of the Bile, Nature’s own lubricant. Try every
new brand of salts on the market, every new tablet that has claims made for it that any kind of
food can be taken in any quantity if only this tablet is taken to digest it. Try them all, and soon it
will be found there is something lacking. There will be something that does not seem just right
in the after effect, and then come back to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills and note the
chano-e There is a general feeling of satisfaction and buoyancy not experienced from these
other" so-called remedies. This is what has occurred for. years. After trying many experiments
with things that are heavily boomed, it is found that the satisfactory result is absent. The reason
is very simple. In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills there is a proved combination of
ingredients that form one compound that is highly efficient for the Liver and Allied Organs, not
merely’flushing the system, as these other remedies do, without getting at the cause, but aiding in
the dicrestion of the food, and, above all, acting definitely on the Liver. This is the secret of the
difference and the reason why many of these new fads are tried a few times and found so ineffective
that they are quickly abandoned, and Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a » am esoi ted to
and found to accomplish everything that is claimed for them.


The Russian Runaways must fight either
the foe or their own comrades; also, they
must choose the former job as the least
objectionable, opineth that wise spirit King
George IV. topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
*
Harvey s whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS &WhITTY MELBOURNE & SYhNEV
fioyprmnent Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 17th July, 1917.
Appointment of Superintending Civil
Engineer—Henderson Naval Base.
A fully-qualified civil engi-
•—’A. NEER is required for the position of
Superintending Civil Engineer of the exten-
sive works in progress and projected in con-
nection with the Henderson Naval Base,
Cockburn Sound, Western Australia.
The projected works comprise heavy
breakwaters, deep-water quay walls, exten-
sive excavations and reclamations, extensive
dredging and Floating Docks.
Applications are invited from Civil Engi-
neers who have had experience in heavy
Engineering V orks and the management and
control of men. Only those who have had
tins experience and have held responsible
positions will be considered. Preference will
be given, all other things being equal to
members of the Institute of Civil Engineers.
The salary will be £750 per annum and a
residence, the salary rising by annual incre-
ments on approved service to £9OO per
annum.
Applications, stating age and giving full
particulars of training and experience and
qualifications, and enclosing copies of testi-
monials, of which not less than two must be
recent, should be addressed to the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office. Melbourne, and
delivered not later than 14th August, 1917.
. Applications to be endorsed, “Applica-
tions for Superintending Civil Engineer”
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
No razor’s edge has ever
been ground to that ex-
quisitely fine keenness you
get with the hard yet flexible
wafer blade of the
juncunL
NO STROPPING NO HONINfI
It took many years to make this per-
fect Gillette blade. But every Gillette
user knows what a pleasure it has
added to shaving. Take a packet
home to-night. Sold in cardboard
cartons.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. Hoffnung & Co.. Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Saefty Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
TRADE
MARK
world ovea
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co, Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 12th July, 1017.
Tenders for Supply of 60-b.h.p. Semi-
Diesel Oil Engine for Quarantine
Service for Port Darwin.
will be received, subject to the
-L conditions of tendering, until 12 noon on
Wednesday, Bth August, 1917, for the supply
of a 60 b.h.p. Semi-Diesel Oil Engine, deli' - '
ered at Naval Depot, Williamstown.
Further particulars may be obtained from
Commonwealth op Australia Gazette
No. 110 of 12tli July, 1917, obtainable at
any Post Office, or at the Office of the Dire c '
tor of Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Mel-
bourne.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
HS
[?]
la most previous years the Australian
Hurdle Race at Caulfield has lost a lot of sporting
interest through accidents and the wear and tear of
jumpers before the day; but next Saturday’s event
promises to bring forth all the gees that ran pro-
minently in the National, plus some others that have
undeniable chances on very latest form. It looks as
though at least a dozen of the starters will be well
backed on the day ; yet the books, at time of writing,
have?rushed the disappointing Bundong into the posi-
tion :of a hot favorite. Betting at the start will pro-
bably be more in accordance with the proved facts
of the case. Pistolier went out at 6 to 1 for the
National, on the strength of his having won a race
at tit«mre Valley a week previously. Seeing that
the S*Australian champion repeated the performance
last Saturday he is likely to be served up warm for
the 34 mill*' struggle at Caulfield. Stamina should
be the all-important consideration in the last half-
mile of the Australian Hurdle Race. Given good
going the field will be taken along at a great bat,
and comparatively uncertain jumpers will want a lot
of luck to carry them through to the bitter end.
To the writer it seems that the first five horses in
the National, viz., Merunqua, Bundong, Lord Grey,
Van Homreigh and Nick-a-Jack, are more trust-
worthy at the weights than others that may take the
many hurdles less, easily. And because Bundong de-
a bit of luck after running three close seconds
Providence may give it to him. All the same, wise
punters will want a fair price anything in such an
evenly-balanced field, where one nag’s false jump may
spell ruin to a couple of others.
Another of Eric A. Connolly’s short-priced
favorites took his backers down the other day. Bun-
dong? s stable-companion Wondergraph, an aged and
over-rated animal, was backed down to 7 to 4 for a
jumpers’ flat race at Moonee Valley. AlmO, a five-
y ear-old soil of Antonio, was too good for the “good
thing” on this occasion. Of late there is always
something too good for Connolly’s vaunted certs.
If Wondergraph had managed to win, even by a head
only, it would have been hailed as a creature more
than worthy of its name—one of those supposititious
marvels that always win if they are wanted to.
* * * *
Something more searching than the thrill
whi<& sweeps over a racing crowd when the favorite
fails in a steeplechase was provided by the Maiden
Handicap at Canterbury Park (Sydney) on Saturday.
There was a big field—2s. Just as the - leaders
swept into the straight Earlstine, ridden by D.
O’Connor, seemed to close in on Black Thistle (F.
O'Cqnnor). At any rate, a stride or two fui'ther on
Blade Thistle reared right up on his haunches, as
if lie had got on the other nag’s heels," and fell.
Then in a flash there was horrible mix-up of hoofs,
boys and dust. Eight of the horses had come down
in the heap. Four of the lads were picked up un-
(onseious —Barden, F?.’ O’Connor, Bragg and Wilkin-
son, badly hurt about the head. W. Crockett had his
nose broken. N. Wood and Maxnell had minor bones
fractured. AJJ the lads were seriously shaken. The horses
fared better, one only—Linacre King —being greatly
hurt. At first it looked as if things were far more
serious; and as four came down in the opening
hurdles, the day was one of great excitement and
anxiety.
Young Barden’s luck was dead out. He had ridden
Galen in the Flying and won, and for the race after
the Maiden —the Canterbury Park Cup—had been
engaged to pilot Medley. This would have given
him a double.
Someone promptly wrote to the newspapers demand-
ing to know what the community thought of “able-
bodied men” riding horses while a war is in progress,
and demanding to know how much longer “this
tragic farce is going to continue.” His point seemed
to be that these “able-bodied men” ought to be at
the Front. The fact is that every one of them is
something less than a flyweight, and under no con-
ceivable system would lie accepted for military ser-
vice. There are surely more cogent objections to
so much racing than that a dozen or two Goliaths
of fully 6st. 121 b. are prevented from winning the
war by struggling to win flying handicaps.
* * * *
The imported Medley was a boom around
Sydney last year and deposited most of his followers
in the soup. Latterly backing this animal came to
be looked on as an absolutely reliable method of
saying farewell to money. Yet few horses have done
better work on the tracks at llandwick. But he bad
a day out on Saturday and forthwith became highly
popular in Israel. For the Canterbury Park (Sydney)
Cup there was a very fair field, First Lesson and
Secret Service being solidly backed, with Canzone
and Trinobantes in moderate demand. Medley was
on the market at 20 , ‘S. and to the disgust of most
people who had lost cash on him before and of the
crowd who had backed something else, the deceiver
made no race of it. He beat First Lesson off coming
down the straight and ran home a winner four lengths
ahead of Canzone. It was one of those happenings
which turn all theories of betting on performance
into dough. The question for local punters is not
when Medley will do it again, but how many times
he can be depended on to let them down before taking
an interest in the proceedings.
* * * *
The Australian horse had a birthday
yesterday. Wherefore all the 2-year-olds that have
been battling along over five and six furlongs are
reckoned ready for any distance, and another crop of
babies comes into the picture.
Just out, the reliable “Miller s Sporting
Annual,” now in its 42nd year. Most of the alleged
sporting “arguments” can be settled by reference to
this annual, and the winners of all the big spring
handicaps are concealed somewhere within its covers.
It is reported that the N. S. Wales
Cabinet, hard pressed to find more money for the
purpose of pursuing its policy of economy, has
decided to hit Ikej 7 up for another Id. on every bet-
ting ticket he issues. This will take some of the
gilt off the silver-fielder’s share of the gingerbread,
and possibly lead to place-bettors having to lay 6Mo
4 all round. But if more money has to be annexed
from racing, why go on selling Israel the right to
be a sort of quasi-official gatherer of revenue, instead
of putting the totalisator on a reasonably decent
basis ? By not passing Ike out of business and
inverting the ratio of commission taken from the
totalisator by clubs and the Government, the State
is losing- many thousands a year in revenue. It could
gain this and at the same time cut down
the present excessive number of alleged race-meet-
ings. To depend on Ike’s scraps of paper means
that the more racing there is the greater will be
the return to the Treasury, and N. S. Wales doesn’t
want more of what it has already in excessive
quantity.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government has turned
the glassy eye on a project for raising £500,000 in
N. S. Wales for war purposes under a scheme by
which the annual interest’ would be distributed
among subscribers on the sweep principle—first,
second and third prizes of considerable amount and
various consolation prizes thrown in. Why ? The
scheme is practical. It would appeal strongly to
thousands of people with an odd pound or two to
invest. It would achieve for national purposes part
of the immense sum now frittered away in all the
States at the ponies and on tickets in Tatt.’s and
so on. It would promote saving where saving
would be a virtue—and give a chance for a pound
that cannot he bought with a war bond. Dread of
the yell from the deacon and curate is apparently
the reason for turning the scheme down. Yet a few
State lotteries could take the place of a few race-
courses, with great advantage to the public purse
and morals. ,
*** . *
Charles Davies makes a crust by running the
Hobart Mercury, and is a legislator as a side-line
and a racehorse-
owner when he dissi-
pates. Under the
nom de course of S.
M. Wilson his purple
and yellow jacket has
been seen in front in
most of the States.
Bay Eagle’s Victorian
Grand National
Steeple in 1902 was
his biggest scoop.
Davies was president
of the T.R.C. for
many years, and is
still a steward. He
retains more horses
in training year aft«r
year than any other
Tasmanian owner,
and despite the stakes
he has lost by reason
of never protesting,
he is reckoned one of
the two richest Tas-
manians.
C. E. DAVIES,
of Hobart.
W ith heaps of ghastly war news straining
the cable services, someone managed to supply the
Australian press combine with the betting odds on
the English Derby, mainly, it' seems, because
“Fairlie,” owner of the favorite Gay Crusader, is
an ex-Australian. Who cares 2d. about Fairlie and
his Derby moke, anyway? Sydney Herald cau-
tiously bowed her reyerend head. to the law and
withheld details, vaguely alluding to the “points”
each horse was behind the one ahead. Another
Sydney paper, hanging the consequences, blurted out
the quotations. Isn’t there enough betting news on
the premises without importing some?
* ’ * #
Tattersall’s Club, Adelaide, gets a new
chairman. Sam Jacobs, who has been in the chair,
with one short interval, for the last 25 years,
retires on account of business pressure, and H. P.
Mcl.ar hlan takes his place. Jacobs was a practising
solicitor before he changed over to commerce, and
his legal training, added to a particularly calm and
judicial manner, has made him a first-class arbitra-
tor in any sporting dispute. McLachlan, a brother
of the Liberal-leader lawyer, is a squatter, generally
known as “Paratoo' —Scotch fashion—after the name
ot his station. He is the inventor of a separate-
stalls svstem for starting races, which is now having
a thorough trial in S. Aus.
* * *
Colonel David Fulton, newly-appointed
Commandant to the Egyptian Administration, is the
only son of the late G. E. Fulton, ironfounder, of
South Aus. He will be 35 on August 1. In his
youth he held his own among the champion hurdle-
racers of Scotland, ar.d was one of the best cross-
country riders in South Aus. He was one of the
first batch of area-officers, and was also one of the
first to enlist for the Front. His charger Bloom
made a renutation for himself and his rider in the
many military sporting meetings in Egypt.
Fritz Holland had a cut at Fred Kay on
Saturday, and, accomplished practitioner though he
is, the ring: in Sydney Stadium was too small for him
to get the long conundrum cornered. Most of the time
Kay was found by Fritz to have vanished from his
last known place of concealment, and when sought
out for attention at the new address he had evapo-
rated. All Kay’s fights are the same: you have the
spectacle of a hard face a long way out of the other
fellow’s reach, a body twisted the wrong way round,
a right glove obtruding like a semaphore, a heavily-
laden left in reserve, and, opposite all this, an
enemy frantically struggling to get in and wipe the
apparition off the landscape. Holland at times
arrived with hurtful emphasis, and at other times
got more than he was looking for; while all through
the fray Kay’s educated feet and evasive head moved
backwards and forwards and every other way to the
great advantage of their owner. The pair were
wildly cheered by ironical spectators when they
emerged for the last time, and there were more
cheers when judgment went for the long ‘un on
points. Kay will never be entirely satisfactory until
someone -who operates in the same way has been dis-
covered. When that happens and streak meets streak
the proceedings ought to be hilarious.
It would seem as if Matty Smith’s last few
fights had put him wise against trying to be
excessively smart. Anyway, when he commenced a
combat with Eugene Volaire on Saturday at Bris-
bane it was found that he had left the bag of tricks
at home. Volaire was slow in starting, but, stimu-
lated by a bill in the fodder arrangements, he quickly
had Smith bustling round to get a look-in. Tasty
left hooks were his strong suit, and he produced
them so often that when the referee crowned Mat-
thew the crowd raised the loud bray of derision. For
once, the crowd wasn’t talking through.its hat.
Playing for Collingwood against Richmond
W. H. Lee kicked his 500th goal for the Magpies in
League football. His first season was 1907, when he
notched 47. In ’l5 he broke the record, with 66,
tying with Freake, of ’Roy. His aggregate would be
larger but for the damaged knee that kept him out
of many games in 1911-113. In ’l2 he seemed injured
beyond repair, but kept going, with an aluminium
plate over his right knee and shin, and a subsequent
long rest put him fairly right—-though the doctor
shook his head when the patchwork tried to join
half a dozen of his mates in khaki.
There was a rustle in N. S. Wales Rugby
League last week. Glebe, disgruntled on account of
the disqualification of club members and bickerings
over playing areas, had refused to toe the kick-off
against Balmain at the previous week-end, and the
League’s answer was to pass 14 players into retire-
ment until 1919. The League, however, on second
survey, will probably find that there is no power
under the rules to compel players to pull on the
jersey.
* » * *
North Sydney has an admirable tail-end
record in Sydney football this season. In Rugby
League, it perches on the bottom rung with 12
defeats in 14 matches, having scored 90 points
against 269; and at Soccer the club holds a similar
position, with one win in a dozen matches, wherein
only eight goals were scored against 42. In other
kinds of football North Svdney dropped out alto-
gether. Its men were better emploved.
N.S.W. Rugby League premiership shut-
ters went up on Saturday, when Balmain had a win
over .South Sydney by 12 points to 10. It has been
a great season for Balmain. In 14 matches they
were only once defeated, and in scoring 269 points
against..6l made the biggest surplus aggregate in
Rugby League history. The club from Jack Storev’s
district also won in 1915 and 1916, and thus climbs
level with Eastern Suburbs 11911-13) and South
Sydney (1908-09 and 1914). Newtown (1910) is
the only other club to taste premiership success. In
three seasons, Balmain has won 36 matches out of
40, and scored 682 points against 232. With such
a record, what are Bilmain’s fine athletes prepared
to do for the other sports at the Front?
* * * *
“E.C.”: How often does a footballer play
In three premier teams in one season? George Grant,
of Cobram (Vic.), did it, anyhow. Cobram team
was left out of the Goulburn Valley Association in
1911, so George helped Toeumwal (N.S.W.) to win
its only premiership. Getting a clearance in time
he struggled with Muekatah, which won the Goul-
burn Valley premiership. Finally he went to Mel-
bourne and finished up with Essendon (Ass.). His
two brothers, Les and Jim, did likewise, except for
the Melbourne performance. Seven premierships
for three brothers in one year takes some beating, if
you don’t court the things some brothers have been
doing in a bigger game somewhere else.
* * * *
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, has struck
a slump in athletics such as comes to every school at
times. Some attribute the poor results to the seniors
leaving at the first possible moment to enlist; but
its opponents mostly have an honorable record in
that wav, too. Also the trouble began before the
war. The latest defeat was at football, by 14 goals
16 behinds to 4 goals 6 behinds. P.A.C. has a
specially fine record in the Australian game, having
won 24 of the 35 matches played between the two
schools.
* * * «
Lieuts. W. Saunderson and G. P. Darlow
were behind the push to raise a second sportsman’s
unit at Sydney last week. Saunderson gave up the
headmastership of Cooerwull Academv, Bowenfels
(N.S.W.), to drop into khaki, and qualified for his
stars at Duntroon. He plaved Union Rngbv with
New England (N.S.W.), and before landing in Aus-
tralia _ wore a iersey for Kent and D’-ffam ’Varsity
in Blightv. Darlow smelt powder in S’Africa, where
hard work against Zulus and Boers earned the Dia-
mond Jubilee ard King’s and Queen’s medals. Before
those davs he was a collector of s ; dehoard trifles at
swimming and athletics in two hemispheres.
Tom Knight, of Tonwong Harriers, who
won the "all-round” championship at Queensland
A.A.A. meeting recently, labored hard for the title.
r l3 ,^’ cr f sses wprp first in pole vault (9ft.), seconds
in 100yds., 220vds. and 440yds., and third at heav-
ing the 161 b. shot. Last year Knight was close up
to A. V. Ackworth (Thompson Estate Harriers).
The only double successes at this year's
ships were these of W. .1. Gomerford (who aW l<m "
last year’s sprints), in the 100yds. and 220v<] ° Won
W. Pitt (Vic.), one- and three-mile walks. aml
M. O'Connor, of East Brisbane, who hum,
the Queensland five-mile cross-country scaln tn?
belt on Saturday, in 29min. 36sec., notehod «!*
biggest mark in bis athletic tally. A week ■
ously he won the three-miles track ehampiomm
easily in 15mm. 52 2-ssec., and his tireless steat ’
action gives promise of further championships Th
teams’ championship was won by East Brisbane f4i
points) from Toowong (71 points). ‘ '
* * *
“Wart” : Bowed his last race, A. G. Carter
of Launceston (Tas.). He was one of the founds'
tion members of the Tamar Rowing Club, was man
years a committeeman, and only two years a </
retired from the position of captain. He was 0 ?
member of the famous Alabama crew, which won
numerous champion-four races in Tasmania nearly
30 years ago, and also a prominent committeeman
of the Launceston Rifle Club and Tamar Regatta
Association. For many years past he has been
starter, umpire and judge at regattas, and was
treasurer of the Association when he died. Sixty-
three.
* * * *
Killed at Ivanhoe (W.A.), R. B. Nichol-
son, who, 30 years ago, was captain of the Bank-
(Vic.) Rowing Club and one of the most successful
strokes of Victorian “intercolonial’’ eights. That
was in the days when the Victorian eight was as
hard to beat as a royal flush.
Edward Chapman, who died the other day,
aged 85, was the oldest inhabitant •of Yass
(N.S.W.), where ho had lived for 70 years. His
wife, still alive at 79, claims to be the first white
child born in those parts. Chapman was a well-
known jockey in the early ’fifties, and rode many
winners at meetings in Goulburn and Braidwooci.
Later, he started as a carrier, between Sydney and
the Riverina, before the railway came. When
carrying supplies for Lambing Flat diggings (now
Young) he had more than one interview with Hall,
Gardiner and other leading bushrangers of the day.’
F. R. Spoffortli, Australia’s “Demon”
bowler of 25 or 30 years ago, is now managing-
director of a big provision business that runs 400
shops scattered all over Britain, lie has two sons
in the fighting-line and a couple of daughters nursing
the wounded.
“Private Room” : I think that “Murkah”
(B. 19/7/’] 7) is right in his guess that some hares
enjoy being coursed. At the Colac (Vic.) plumpton
they keep a hare which chaws the Old Age Pension.
He has practically no fur on his back and is hailed
locally as “Baldy.” Although ho knows every inch
of the ground and could run blindfold to the nearest
escape, he is always reserved for the final—and
many a one the old battler has survived. Some clay
when liis rheumatics are troubling him he’ll slow
up for a wink. Then
“Yarrum”: “Jokn Quill’s” hare (H.
12/7/’l7) was a good one, but 1 can beat it. At
Hobby’s Yards (N.S.W.) the local skulldriver shot
one that went within a couple of ounces of 171 b.
The pelt, when tacked out, looked like a calfskin.
♦ * * ♦
“Tam o’ Shanter” : Produce a finer speci-
men of stingray and I’ll pav for the drinks. It came
ashore at Trial Bay (N.S.W.) the other day and the
measurements were: length, 7ft. Gin.; breadth, sft.
3in.; bayonet, 16 inches. There were no available
means to ascertain the tonnage.
* * * *
“P.W.”: “Eryander’s” figures agree', with
the record I have of Dr. Carver’s shooting, but 1
believe they’re wrong, all the same. The rifles were
101 b. Winchesters and were loaded each with 14
cartridges, so the rifle would be raised once only
for every 14 shots—nearer two tons than 30. Is the
recoil given (481 b.) correct? It doesn’t seem so to
me, but I’ve no means of making sure.


The Nation’s Greatest Need is
Physical Training
Why not become a strong, vigorous and perfectly
healthy being?
Regular Exercise properly taught by my
Postal Course of Health & Strength Culture
will make you fit, and keep you strong and healthy.
You will find my Exercises both beneficial and
enjoyable. You will look forward to the time you
have to do them, and the benefits will be rapid.
My DEEP-BREATHING EXERCISES will build
up your chest, train your lungs to breathe properly,
and broaden your shoulders.
My Booklet. “Health and Strength from Self-
Culture,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I
•should like to send you a copy. Write your name
and address across this advertisement, send three
penny stamps, and a copy will be sent you by return
mail.
KEG. L. (“Snowy ) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
536 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
55**
cO
05
\S?
S<?
r^>
>r
53
£
SIRIS CUT
GOLD BARS
A High-grade Virginian Tobacco that
will not bite the tongue.
Specially Prepared and Packed in
Hermetically-sealed lib. and Tins,
which ensures delivery in perfect
condition.
lib. Tins, 8/-; Postage, lid.
14 lb. Tins, 4/-; Postage, 6d.
An Ideal Smoke for the Troops Abroad.
We Pack as per G.P.O. Regulations
FREE, and forward same on receipt
of address and P.N value 9/- for
lib., or 4/7 for *4 lb* tins.
A Sample 2oz. Tin forwarded any-
where Post Paid for 1/2.
A. KEBBLEWHITE,
Cigar and Cigarette Merchant,
“The Old Established House,”
19 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
In lAny
Condition
"the spirit”
OF THE WAR
THE ENEMY OF
BRITISHERS
ENEMIES.
in
BENZINE
IS RELIABLE
HEL
BENiINI
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
Catalogue " D " with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. C™:
109-113 RUSSELL ST.. MELBOURNE.
NATIONAI
BENZINE
Fill your tank with Nationa
Benzine and take your car where you
will. You’ll find the “National” Spirit will
give you a service of perfection a clean
unhampered “run” and the certain economy of
EXTRA MILES per gallon.
In busy city traffic “National” will “pick up” quickly-
consistently; out in the open where “dash” is possible over
hills, through sand—where you will, you 11 find National
always respond to the slightest touch of the accelerator ecause
it is clean and prime with those responsive qualities that
make for power and unvarying “DRIVE- very ga on o
“National” guarantees MORE miles. t-
Try “National” * with YOUR CA *’
MOTOR-BOAT, FARM OR FACT ORY ENGINE.
Obtainable all Oarages
and Store Keepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO.,
I Bridge Street, Sydney
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide
193
/
%
\
\n
N
m
s
R3g
m
S6ft£
sSc*
.V
■'-xV.
rs
X
-m;
V^VJ'
mmm
a
mm
y'^.S-.-ir
mm
mm®
-M
'ri'^'
i
smfcs
: -■
: ; *
?-i’
'
fS&Sr
S,
\
111 v
If
if
'"'^M
• ’ VT: I s '-'i '• ,•&'& ■ ■
V“
L
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
Wasting Disorders
Price 26 bottle
fa ) \
*-'
%4~ -S' ,
HE***
Zf&G »»W
V/A
:■&
vs
f
Pure Australian Wool
Australian-made T weed
Australian-made Trousers
These Trousers were made in Australia. The Tweeds
used in their manufacture were made in Australia. The
Wool used in making the Tweeds was grown on the backs
of sheep “born and bred” in Australia, so it only remains
for you to buy and wear the finished Garments to provide
the keystone in the arch of an Australian industry.
But apart from Patriotic Reasons—the trousers them-
selves are sufficient reason for their purchase Perfectly
Tailored in All-Wool Tweeds in Smart Medium Grey
Shades—Neat Herringbone Patterns—Smart and with
wonderful capacity for service Obtainable with cross or
side pockets—they’re rare value at our price
ni (plus half postage—Victoria 6d.,
/ O Interstate lOd. Outsizes 1/-extra)
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
244-256 Flinders Street
Melbourne


Why Have Grey Hair?
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless
recipe will correct it.
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few
nights with a small sponge and you will
soon have the pleasure of seeing the greyness
disappear. This recipe is perfectly harmless,
is neither sticky nor greasy, and has given
perfect satisfaction for many generations to
those in possession of the secret. — Advt. [4
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
'tfiAifop
GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT. LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Pi-out £ Co.. 22h Strand. London.
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.
Manchester, Eng.
Vaseline
*V«d« Mark Registered
Camphor Ice
Relieves sunburn, wind-
burn, chapped hands
and lips.
“ Vaseline ” Carbolated
for cuts, bruises or insect
bites.
Vaseline” Capsicum
for sore throat, stiff neck,
sprains and cramps.
Other “Vaseline” Rem-
edies for other needs.
Keep a supply on hand.
For sale at all chemists
and general stores.
Refuse substitutes.
clin e««
CAMPHOR \CE
EXQU»S\Tt TOtUCT articiv
'Of.supenor quaiWty
AHO ROUOH S *. w ' „
J 1 APPt»* 4
/OR f V
HtStBROUGH MAHUFAC.TVJR\N6 COMPANY
OATtO)
New vork.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
Never Use an Oily Polish
on Any
of My
Furniture—
T
<2*
$
fYILY polishes gather and hold the dust,
soiling clothing, linen and everything with
which they come in contact. Johnson’s Prepared
Wax imparts a perfectly hard, dry, glasslike polish.
It forms a thin protecting coat over the varnish,
adding years to its life. It never becomes sticky
or tacky in the hottest weather or from the heat
of the body. Consequently it does not show finger
prints and
It Cannot Gather Dust
Johnson’s Prepared Wax polishes and finishes with
one application. There is nothing like it for keep-
ing dining room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes have no effect whatever on it.
Have Your Piano, Gramophone and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish, Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently re-
moved with Johnson’s Prepared Wax, The Dust-
Proof Polish. Splendid for Craftsman Furniture also.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax-
Keep a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos .
Floors
Piano
Furniture
Woodwork
Motor Car
Use This Coupon for Trial Tin
y fVeparecJ
(LEANS ANDpOIISHES
Etas
Irtel®S
IjNOLEUM
fIOORS '
Woodwork
l Automobiles
A<-l|eather^
V
l'/2 OZ.
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax—
sufficient for a good test.
Also send book on Home
Beautifyingf ree and postpaid
Name
Address,
I usually buy from.
Filtout this coupon
andoost to
S. C JOHNSON&SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.
T
2
h^-
3S»
S*
Jr' '
At the FRONT!
Private C. V. SILLETT, 15th Reinforce
ments, 15th Battalion, 4th Infantry Brigade,
writes to a friend
My Onoto Fountain Pen is still in good
working order, all my tent mates have
gone ‘nap’ on it. I have now had it 13
months and it has been in constant use
all the time, and I may state that I have
never had it repaired in any way.”
Fills
Itself.
Cannot
Leak
nofo
Pen
THE
Prom
14 6
Manufacturers.Thomasde la Kuf. & Co. Ltd .Bunbill
Road. London K.C Managing Agents. NORMAN
BAKER & I.ONGHtTRST York Street. Sydney
Tj™g 6d„ y°u . can have The
-L bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 IQ S .
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc-,
and all business communications should o e
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
“L.H.P.”: France’s Day in Sydney saw a
film version of “A Tale of Two Cities,” but
no drama appropriate to the occasion, albeit
there are plenty available. The most notable is
probably “The Dead Heart,” by Watts Phil-
lips, whose daughter Roland was for so
many years a valued member of George Rig-
nold’s co. This piece was done in Sydney at
the old. Victoria. “A Tale of Two Cities”
was written about the same time, and there
was the usual outcry about plagiarism. Dic-
kens’s novel has been dramatised many
times, the most effective versions being by
Fox Cooper, bearing the same name as the
book, and Freeman Wills, called “The Only
Way,” and made familiar to Australia by
Tyrone Power and Edith Crane in 1900.
“The Destruction of the Bastille,” a two-act
drama produced at the London Adelphi in
1844, enjoyed a long run, but it outraged his-
torical facts. Benjamin and F. Webster
were the authors, and Madame Celeste (here
in 1867), O. Smith, Paul Bedford and Ben
Webster appeared as principals.
“Masetto” : The Fullers have just set up
an organ in Melbourne Bijou to second the
efforts of the vaudevillains on that stage.
The drum and cymbals cheer its religious
moanings; but it seems a weird arrangement.
Orchestral players are troubled by a rumor
that the organ that George Musgrove
brought out for his opera co. in 1900 will
shortly be installed at the Royal, and that
the Fullers are thinking, about getting one to
till up the orchestra space at the Princess’s.
“Old Pro”: The profession has been
amused to note that the larger press critics,
in reviewing “Grumpy,” remark on the
“enormous improvement” in the work of
Dorothy Gumming. So much for foreign
travel where some critics are concerned. Hav-
ing no imported star to flatter, these timid
theatre guides have to seek an excuse for
their former non-appreciation of an Aus-
tralian, who, away from her own country
vvas chosen bv one of the leading artists of
the world to support him. Dorothy was
always a delightful artist, and everybody in
the business knew it. The great critics may
have suspected ; but they didn’t dare to put it
m cold print until the Australian girl had
been approved in a foreign country.
“Harrison O.”: At vaudeville shows the
encore nuisance is now as bad as it is at
concerts. The only difference is that the
concert performer goes through the drearv
busmess of coming on and bowing several
times, pretending that he would simply hate
to do the extra number he has planned all
along; whereas the vaudevillain, realising
best glves who gives quickly!
hastens to serve the second helping of tripe
, b m,°n£, F esent t are able to organise a
counter-offensive. At a variety show the
other evening the first course brought on by
a lagtime couple produced the silence of a
house of mourning. It looked as though a
serious crisis would occur; but a wine-
fancier in the stalls saved the situation. He
hiccoughed ; whereat the rag merchants came
racing back, bowing as though in response
i . famultuous applause, and proceeded to
hatch their second crime. It is, seemingly
a m d u Vll ? tradition that three numbers
ab ° uld b * 6 glve ? by eaeh individual or team
and that any punch” the turn may happen
Who°n SS T Should be ke Pt f °r last round
}Y b ?h» P" nch scarcely amounts to a
fl P Ki e i firS V wo spasras have to be made too
tbn b i«fcl m< ff t 1° stand - Audiences know that
he later efforts are the only ones worth tup-
pence, otherwise many vaudevillains would
never receive a hand for their opening out
The importance of Clothes. The nro-
comedy set's out tha^the
by F, furniture by G, and wigs by H The
feminine trappings, by the wav cfe en
age of capital letters 8y ’ get the hom '
ART AND ARTIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To Bungledoo the agent came to boost the Buskem
show,
A score of artists, every one a star;
And he talked with Lucky Hogan, who controls the
Bailey Mow,
As he pasted up a daybill in the bar.
“I don’t expect,” the agent said, “that many shows
come here —
You don’t get drama often, I suppose?”
Then Hogan gave a knowing wink, and drew himself
a beer.
“Why, Bungledoo is cluttered up with, pros!
“I’ve got the Lady Isabel behind my private bar,
And Barbara Hare is waiting on the table,
And Archibald Carlyle is chauffing Dr. Jagger’s car,
And Levison’s a groom in Grogan’s stable.
“And Little Willie lathers up in Jorkin’s barber’s
shop,
And Corney’s keeping books for Biff the baker,
And Richard Hare’s secured a fairly decent sort of
cop—•
He’s coffin-hand for Snoggs the undertaker.
“They’ve all got honest toil at last, and now they’ve
settled down,
They don’t know what it is to want a shilling.
Your Buskem crowd will feel at home when they
arrive in town —-
There’s work for them as well, if they are willing!”
The agent gave a hollow groan, and writhed as
though in pain,
Then grabbed his bag and bucket and withdrew.
The wire he sent to Buskem ere he sprinted for the
train
Was: “Actors’ graveyard. Cut out Bungledoo!”
Then Hogan mused: “That makes the sixth I’ve
headed off this year;
This ‘East Lynne’ gag's the best I’ve yet invented.
I know what 'stranded actors are” (he drew another
beer) —■
“But the Buskem Co. I think is circumvented!”
Queensland.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


£
a*'/
I
m
c,
? •
m \u : H
<■
<*>;■» '
.V
/->.
i •
I
iii«:
fffjm
Si
Mil
1
I IB
IS
,i,:;U;
rl
s
I
- '4ml
5 ?'l
\JT:
IRBJlWWPlllllWfnßrff^fff^™w*wirfWWilflWW.|iifr«s'fTOaw»iißm
'm
\\\%\
»£///!#
httuW
wsy
Wit.
>M\H
rr r
■ W«i
HI
mmwmmwi
m
•mm
fii
s-
\\\»l
I 111
iwwr
mm
vz.
e
n
1
//✓
Cl
fTT
0_ .
s£
ll -<
[>iLU
A/-**
*&■
0
C/fe BEALE PLAYER PIANO
A TRUE INTERPRETIVE INSTRUMENT.
THE Beale Player-Piano has eight regulating
devices that give you as great a command of
expression as many years of drudging practice. A
“Beale” makes an accomplished musician of any
who have the longing to express their emotions in
tone color. Call and let us show you why this
Australian-made instrument cannot be surpassed.
ecue
up
&>G?
Geo
W
Sydive
Head Office and Works: 41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
qoo o_nrire 0 _ nrire Street Sydney. And at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore. Newcastle, Goulburn and Wagga.
VICTOIGV Maples in all Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA : Williams Bros., Hobart. Maples, Launceston. S.A^ : John Evans. Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENS LA ND • 90-92 Queen St., Brisbane. Kent St., Maryborough. Flinders St.. Townsville. Rockhampton. Sydney St, Mackay. Cairns.


TOSS!
m
m
Does the Thought of
Work Worry You
Nervous Breakdowns are frequent amongst
business men just now. Tire non-arrival of
goods, the inability to obtain or supply orders,
the worry of finance all tend to bring on nerve
troubles. Just as the over worked bodv needs
rest and nourishment so the overworked brain—
a delicate organ at any time requires the same.
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
is the remedy required for
strengthening the Nerves and
building up the System. It has
also been used with beneficial
results for Indigestion, Back-
ache, Brain-fag, Rheumatism,
Nervousness and Neuralgia
during the past forty years.
For MENTAL DEPRESSION and
PHYSICAL WEAKNESS.
All Chemists and Stores.
1/- per Bottle. Fouf times the quantity 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing: Chemists
337 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W Tl|sp
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing’ instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mpars Far Phonp man y times as efficient
mean Ldi rnone and powerful a 8 the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 OEOROE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
A Perfect
Custard.
(The NAVY BRAND,)
%
*
a
o,
STK
Powder
tk^VANILLA
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO„
Pure Food Specialists, SYDNEY.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.,
BRISBANE,
Sole Queensland Agents.
BELLEVUE
The only Hotel
overlooking
HOTEL, the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in tact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNIC AN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
<4%
The "BULLETIN
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The "BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
The two most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They both have
Pigskin Seat, the “GS” short panel with
leather points, long flans and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
Stirrups, Girth, Leathers and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle. 3/6 Less if Stirrups not required.
SHORTAGE OF STlRRUPS.— Customers
will help if they will use their old stirrups
until matters improve.
FREIGHT FREE FOR CASH TO ANY
PORT OR RAILWAY STATION in N. S.
Wales. For 3/6 extra for casing we will send
freight free to any direct port in Queensland,
Victoria, South Australia or N.Z.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 12/6, Post 1/-
SADDLECLOTH 6/6, Post 1/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
WaltherS Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS,
393 George Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and
other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High-pressure Stocks
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, Sydney. a. mayne heron, Manager.
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
comes into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, never were shoes more in
_ evidence. So the smart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of the new Bostock styles
for the season, since these are more captivating
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Cut from that most
elegant of materials, patent leather, made in
that new, short-fronted French shape which
makes every foot look so arched and delightful,
this is the shoe of shoes to give a telling finish
to one’s new walking suit or gown. And it is only
one shoe amongst many equally desirable.
Bostock styles now on view at the leading stores.
Bostock N'o.
'X
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostoek."
830
Unmistakable in style, cut and finish,
and the name “Bostock’’ on the soles.
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
99
u
Underwear
To see the Jason Brand on a garment
is to know that Australasian wool, skilled
British labour, and expert fashioning have
gone to its making.
New '* Olympic *' Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
nave introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular, lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 67
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
S.T.: Nonsense, read it again. That
correspondent no more suggested that wireless opera-
tors should work longer hours than you suggest it
yourself. And his reference to hours wasn’t,
apparently, to marine operators at all. .. •
Roo: We don’t know that it is true —haven’t,
in fact, heard of even one case of the kind.
The Queensland six o’clockers made the statement.
The obligation is on them to prove it. It they can’t
or don’t we repeat that they ought to be prosecuted.
W.H.: You said the whole thing in the first line ;
and it wasn’t a brilliant observation... .C.F.P.; The
opal “dripping slobbers of light”—that’s altogether
too realistic a fancy... .D.N.N.: No point in it....
E. 8.: Not up E.M.E.: Your passages with the
siren muse are not interesting W.P.V.: Won’t do.
M.M.B.: No use sending that sort of stuff....
C.D.: You must lift your verse above the common-
place .somewhere if you want to score... . A.E.R.:
Slipshod stuff Fyve: Too crude W.P.8.:
Moves stiffly Corio: Lame fragment of a gently
irritating moral sort... .Rufus: You may have a
case, but you fail to state it clearly... .P.1.C.A.:
It has a long way to travel to become passable verse.
..'. .R.A.S.: Very slight. . . .1.D.: Fair verse. Doesn’t
thrill R.M.: “Flemish Tale” isn’t well enough
done... .S.T.K.: Yes, the figures would have been
of interest had you sent them in an intelligible form.
Now try again... .MeLirr: Point out those “con-
temptuous terms,” will you?... .Trocus: That boiler
yarn is as old as Kosciusko. .. .J.R.S.: What are
you talking about ? They would come here fast
enough if they outed father Bull. As for the other
crowd —well, one job at a time... .G.F.8.: Now,
why didn’t you write some of the exploits which
you say were so remarkable ?.... Lee: Bird matter
has all been done before. The other par. is not up;
but try again... .Bellerive: A prophecy this time:—
The refugees, the poor refugees,
Left homeless by the huns,
Their cities laid in ashes
By the foemen’s booming guns ;
Heroes, fo> their parents,
Their little ones and wives,
While fighting the invaders
Did forfeit up their lives.
The refugees, the poor refugees!
The cruel and frenzied huns
Will welter ’neath the vengeance
Of the empire’s booming guns.
... .R.S.G.: Well, the world may be fuH of cowards;
but the present scrap seems to show that there are
a few others... .T.W.: The usual abusive rant in
astonishingly had verse... .J.H.: The “Dosser” has
no force. The sonnets are of the sort anybody who
can count the feet in a line could write.... A.J.G.:
“I’m nothing much at prose or poem.” Correct.
Pass on to the fighting, where you can say things in
your own way... .L.R.F.: Bacchus wouldn’t
itv.. .Athos: Some feeling; poor verse. .. .8.N.A.:
Go and sing it to the Kaiser. He deserves it; we
don’t.... 0.M.M.: There may be nothing new to
say, but that’s hardly an excuse for saying it. And
still less for saying it jn the stalest way possible.
....The Lunatic at Large: Send it to Wilhelm. He
might forget to look for “The Dog” while trying
to read your handwriting... .A.F.: More Kaiser-
baiting! The German menace won’t get oirt of the
road for all the ink wasted on rotten rhymes....
L.K.: Men “call it rhyme,” do they? Don’t you be-
lieve the person who tells you “stronger” rhymes
with “younger”... .8.K.: “Boggs” doesn’t convince.
. ...B.B.: Held for inquest... .P. Grievous: This
reader has influenza, and in the sneeze of it your
effort looks thin K.M.A.: Cheer up! Bad temper
doesn’t improve bad work... .E.L.S.: Doesn’t carry
a thrill... .1.L.C.: Correct enough verse, but with
no lift... .E.A.C.: Nothing in it except “Den’s”
idea, and you mustn’t steal that in this paper....
H. 8.: Doesn’t say much W.F.: Sorry, not up
P.P.: Poor stuff.... Morphy: Not interesting....
Vie: You have a long, long way to g 0.... J.T.E.:
Nothing in it... .A.L.: Dreary prose masquerading
as verse M.8.P.: “Forty” doesn’t appeal
William: Neither prose nor verse scores.... Clad-
alan: Tiresome, jolty stuff Bunny: A lot of
rhymes to a very little thought Amateur: Hor-
rible... .8.5. T.: “Vampire” vamps very badly
Winona: Doesn’t strike us Poetica: No interest.
. ...E.C.E.: Labored and evil-smelling. .. .A. P.D.:
An idea, hut not forceful enough... ..J.0.G.: Not up!
... .H.G.: One sample:—
In my dreams I thought T saw
A fearful beast called “Work.”
I said to myself, Ghod Lor’
How I hate the sight of Work.
But I couldn’t escape him ;
This demon that’s named Work ;
I began to shake in every limb,
And called for mv friend Shirk.
.... J.H.L.: Thin line—altogether too thin..
Dinkum: Lamentable.... Fvver: Pretty crude!!
K.S.: “Twentieth Generation” not strong enough" to
stand the c01d... .G.N.: Very poor verse HT •
Not our style.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.8.H.: A poor thing and not quite your 0wn....
A.J.A.: No use for a dead donkey... .W.McG.: That
one got the Old Age Pension long ago 1.V.: Some
humor in it, hut it’s rather wooden and has balloons
all over it. .. .J.D.8.: Two sad shut-eye figures
R.H.; Shiny crude pencil sketches and one gag that
has a familiar ring John C.: Quaint - tapestry
effect... .Thomas H.: But you’ve made the Kaiser
more handsome than John Bull, Father Time or
Death L.V.: Unfortunately the real food profiteer
is less accessible than your stout dwarf Mac:
Afraid you’re over-confident Bert R.: The butcher
got no order J.R.: Your human tanks are merely
horrible Bill: Pretty bad stuff, Bill. And you
forgot to gum their return fare to them Outback-
Very rough and wiry W.M.: Doesn’t get us.
A man named Geddes was appointed First
Lord of the Admiralty the other day, because
it was believed that he could manage the
business of the Department better than it
has ever been managed before. He wasn’t
a politician, but that didn’t matter. In pre-
war time Geddes might have been the
greatest genius that ever lived, yet if he
wasn t in politics he would have had no hone
whatever of becoming First Lord of the
Admiralty. If the war lasts much longer
every member of the British Cabinet threat-
ens to be just a plain, hard man of business
who regards “politics” with sorrowful con-
tempt. But there is no sign of any move-
ment that way in Australia. The politician
is more supreme here than ever. And
Peaice is still at the Defence Department.


GOODYEARS
Always Ensure
Real Tyre Economy
r\
W/,
<
k: i
&
F3s
1
"TE
I^JfcS
*SW>
/•//
*=v
0
t
*
r»
ft
a
ft
ft
to
to
ft
*
A
10W first cost cannot be said to
have much bearing- on real tyre
economy.
Real tyre economy is determined
by the service the tyre user gets for the
money he spends.
A tyre bought at a fair price which
wears long and usefully is certainly a
more economical tyre than one bought
cheaply which soon fails.
To attempt to save money by pur-
chasing the cheaper tyre is obviously
unwise thrift.
It is the sort of economy that
would prompt a farmer to refuse to
plough his fields because of the cost of
farm help.
Goodyear Tyres are not lower in
price than other tyres. In some cases
they are even higher.
Yet Goodyear Tyres everywhere
are conceded to be unusually econom-
ical tyres.
Tlic remarkable mileages they
deliver, the freedom from trouble they
afford, the long and reliable service
they ensure, make them the tyres of
superior value.
The economy of Goodyear Tyres
is not the result of any sudden dis-
covery.
It is the outcome of many years
spent in factory and field in search and
experiment and trial.
Of the care given to selecting
the finest raw materials for Goodyear
products.
Of the pains given the putting
these materials together in the finest
possible way.
The Goodyear Tyre-making
Machine, the On-Air Cure, the All-
Weather Tread —these sprang from
this endeavor.
The stamina in Goodyear Tvres,
their endurance, quality and lasting
usefulness—all have being from a
similar source.
Goodyear Tyres now are serving
motorists more efficiently and more
economically than other tyres could
You can depend on their serving
you that way.
When you come to Goodyear
Tyres buy them of the Goodyear
Service Station dealer near you.
He will help you get out of them
the final mile that we have built into
them —that is his mission.
Ask him about Goodyear Tubes
better tubes —and what they mean in
lowering tyre expense.
And ask him about the Goodyear
Tyre-Saver Kit, which, from the stand-
point of economy, should always be in
car.
Branches and Agencies in all Principal Cities. Dealers and Service Stations Everywhere.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA—ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apnlv
ORIKNT S. N. CO., I.td.,
id.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Sio! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BIiISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABKBG,
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
GATT? NS
OOOKTOW
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, August 4.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, August 8.
Leaves Sydney, August 11.
BOMBALA (4000 TONS).
Leaves Melbourne, August 15
Leaves Sydney, August 18.
MICLBOUKNE
(Transhipping f<. ■■
S. A. a ad \V. A. ports)
*Pnssongers only.
SOUTH.
BOMRiVLA. (4000 TONS).
Leaves Sydney, August 11.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) : The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Ivt. (Deputv Chairman) :
william davies; e. h. macartney, ml\ :
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.GM.G. ; Hon. A j
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated- under the Companies Act 18R3.
Hankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921,
Subscribed Capital £BOO 000 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. ~ 222.(100 o 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.609 4 5
All nexv business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq.
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C. t James
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; TV. H. Hart, Esq.
(Chairman) ;
Love, Esq. ;
General Manager —TV. V RALSTON
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE
Branches—l, on don, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
A grants throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Ranking (Jo.
of Sydney, [united.
Establish liii 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,940,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,940,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircfiin Lane, E.C\
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARI)
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . . . . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-tip .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
... , . . . ,
un Australia. New /Cea-
land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and In
eland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest tor
fixed periods and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
-ij
Ei»
;V<"
S 3
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Mel bourne.
Harcest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES. GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALT. CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Aliy Part of ttie United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU , of the Pacific
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Ho I 'day in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF’ N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
: > i
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEVEN WEEKS 5 TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD 9 Bridge Street.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
£3,894.980
£2.800 000
£3.894,980
£10.589.960
Directors:
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
'lhe lion. Edmund W. Eosbery, c AI.U., -VI.E.C.
'the ilon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq. ; W. 11. Palmer Esq.
Head Office Gcor ? o St., Sydney, London Office-2'9 Threadneedle St EC
o3i Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nesro
tinted and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
R FRENCH. General Manager
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
*7 I* * **<
figp
J6ank ot Hißtm!ia
SYDNEY. .
for pe a n ,i General Banking Business p ;r n *p p e a ,
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct Foreign
Banldnc! 8 and collected Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world
wealth d n E > C !i a^ e ? usiness of ever - v description transacted within the Common-
firoJ n- hn l ted n " dom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest pa.d on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities. interest paid on
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over Interest at *S 0 /
2600 Agencies at Post Offices P er annum %
in Australia and Papua. up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
\'l P!S K RLL. Depur v Gorernor
June, 1016
DEN IS OX .MILLER. Gorernor
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman-
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT It. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kino-
Streets). Manager-. E. P. Cauii.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, EC)
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Svdney, and
it will be posted to you for one vear.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres :
*22
*2BO
*303
ALCQCK & PIERCE
pty. ltd.
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP?)
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and ,
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLANh
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
MORIALTA, Saturday, Aug. 4
RUPARA, Saturday, Aug. n
PARINGA, Saturday, Aug 1
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable a it et
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Com
on all services subject to conditions, which <.«*"
ascertained on application at the Company's oilic
G. S. YUIliTj X CO.. LTD,
Agents, 6 UUiDGIi STREET. SYb.Nuv
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent FnW Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
TOGO tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney m
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne tn
New Zealand ports and vice versa: parti cub,? 1
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every thr
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street,Sydney
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
2!) Days to London.
Int ere ha n gea ble Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION
Apply:- OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO..
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2281
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia ;in<l
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Declo.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdnev and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWKAITM,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart. '
“J"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
IWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. UIiLMNUKU,
NAM RU CCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COIT'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued m conjunction "ini
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-ciass rail to BRISBANE
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbaii,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-M -
-date liners for SY T DNE\', or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, G Bs. fid. : secmuLciass rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 2GI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY-
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N, Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDAKKA ”
T. 5.5. “ LEVUIvA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA"
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
10,000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel u;
the A.U.S.X. Line, as tins Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and colll '
fort, making travel safe, easv and pleasant. Af te r
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji Trade'
narticulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily l J apers.
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDUE STREET, SYDNEY.
1 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral*
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated P«P er
containing mail and cable news from -L l '"
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially >■'
vited to visit the British AustralaSlA-
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High In-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tnj
te.ophone, and obtain information withos
charge.


Every special event
demands a fiodaß
Your Daughter’s birth-
day — make a Kodak
picture of her in the
home surroundings.
Your son leaves for school for the first time, you take
the family on a holiday, you come to a beauty spot in
the country or city, your friends spend the day with you
—these and a thousand and one such subjects offer
unlimited scope for admirable Kodak pictures.
Then, your soldier son, brother, husband or friend at
the war yearns for the pictures you can make so easily
with a Kodak.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2/-,
and you can learn to use one in half an hour.
The No. 3A Folding Autographic Kodak takes excel-
lent postcard pictures—s-| x 3j inches. Price
£5/10/-
The new 2C Folding Autographic Kodak takes popu-
lar elongated pictures—2£ xdf inches. Price 55/-
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak—the Soldier's
Kodak—for pictures 2-1 x 1 g inches. Price 30/-
Ask for your, copy of the latest Kodak catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
(Incorporating Baker 8 Rouse Prop. Ltd.)
! m
■
m'
V.
an
Wes
.0;
as
. •
- . V
v.:
m
t*» *t i.
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton's Buildings, Wickham St (next Melba Theatre) Valle*; r ; , “ jj({"
- - - -• Toowoomba; Hinders St., To«ns\ille, Dennam st.,
- - ’ Wellington.
Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.. Hobart; Kuthven St.,
Rockhampton ; VIG Argent St.. Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner I.ambton Quay and Willis St..
N.Z.; 3 Lome St.. Auckland. N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
How to Make Your Corset
Serve Longer.
Two tilings make a corset useless —being worn out and being out of style. Gossard corsets '"ear
much longer than the average corset. Most Goss arils are fitted to their wearers, 'this insures the
right model for each individual figure, which naturally reduces the strain on any part of the -garment.
Designing, as we do, corsets for the world, many models are created to supply a style need that is one
and two seasons in advance of regular, seasonal styles. You can be fitted to a Gossard to-day that
is easily 12 months in advance of present styles.
So you see how to make your corsets last longer. Just select the right Gossard for your figure and
specify an advance style.
m
Ideal Tall and Short Slender Figures.
Over fifty models for slender figures are yours
to select from. They give rounded hip lines
—are lightly boned —lengthen or shorten
waist line—and give the figure a smooth,
rounded a 1 > pea r a nee.
An expert corsetiere, who understands your
figure requirements, will deem it a pleasure
to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
£hejf. IV ti ossard fd. [nc
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women
of AUSTRALIA by
Allan Si Stark, Ltd., Brisbane.
Buekley & Xunii, Ltd., Melbourne.
Harry Davies & Co., Ballarat.
Farmer & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Rockhampt*
James Marshall & Co., Adelai<le.
YV. T. Waters & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
In NEW ZEALAND by
.T. Ballantyne & Co., Christchurch.
The Drapery and General Importing <
The Drapery and General Importing <
The Drapery and General Importing <
George & Kersley, Ltd., X.Z., “The
Herbert Hayes & Co., Ltd., Dunedin.
,T. Ballantyne & Co., Timaru.
Co., of New Zealand, Christchurch.
Co., of New Zealand, Lyttelton.
Co., of New Zealand, Wellington.
Economic,” Wanganui.
Ideal Short
Slender
injure.
W. Lewis & Co., Invercargill.
Milne & Choyce, Ltd., Auckland.
Ideal Tall
Slender
Figure
m


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
Suites
de luxe.
RESIDE and DINE at
The
Australia
Hotel,
SYDNEY
Rooms with
Bath & Balcony.
European or
American Plan.
Private
Safe Deposit
Spacious
Winter Carden.
Cuisine
par excellence.
Crill Rooms
a la carte.
Afternoon Teas
and Suppers.
Recherche
Dinners.
Weddings
Catered for.
Address: THE MANAGER.
Why Drive a “Four” when you can
purchase a "SIX” for the same price?
The GRANT SIX. Price £565.
THE GRANT SIX-CYLINDER 5-SEATER, 2l h.p.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Garage 8 Showrooms—l 62 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
TEL. 8862.
The New Six-cylinder GRANT is America’s
Last Word in Excellence.
The exceptional value of the NEW GRANT SIX
is clear and unmistakable. The GRANT SIX is
the first six at its price.
The GRANT SIX for 1917 has the largest,
handsomest body ever offered in a car at anywhere
near its price; full five-passenger capacity; U-
doors, very wide ; soft, deep upholstery; occupants
sit deep in the car ; knees do not show above the
side lines, doors Hush, no mouldings, top rail smooth
and rounding. Overhead valve motor, exclusive
Grant design—enlarged and refined; quieter, more
powerful, more economical, more flexible.
Equipped with easily-adjnstable tappets—no oil
leaks. Electric starter, light and horn; Cantilever
spring; full floating rear axle.
20 MILES to THE GALLON OF PETROL,
and many users get more; 900 MILES to the
gallon of oil is the average experience of
GRANT drivers.
DEMONSTRATIONS ARRANGED AND full
STOCKS OF SPARE PARTS CARRIED.
Price £365 complete,
including Spare Tyre, Tube and Rim.
IN BANANA LAND
The Censor has to get busy when Jack
O’Brien, of Maryborough, sends his com-
munique to the local Alert :
Dodged the submarines and arrived all light.
Am in England getting ready for a go at the
Bodies. The climate is up to putty, but the
tucker is splendid. London is the greatest city in
the world absolutely. Had a pint of Bass ale,
but would prefer half a pint of good old - ——-
Steindl’s. I expect to cross the Channel at
; a ny time, and if the —— submarines don’t get
me I hope to win a V.C. Excuse this
scribble, as the Germans are dropping bombs on
London, and this table is shaking a treat.
The current joke of Brisbane is the John
Adamson fund. At the beginning it was
designed as a consolation stake of £lOOO for
the patriot who resigned the Assembly be-
lieving his selection for the Senate sure, and
it has almost reached the mark. But never
was such modesty known before in a list of
donors. A few real names are down for
guineas and half-sovereigns, but many are
weird items like “Britisher £ll 12s. 6d.” and
“Sympathiser £3 35.” Never before has lime-
light been sit such a discount north of Wil-
son’s Promontory.
One of the nastiest things said of late
about the patriotic Queensland Leg. Council
comes from London. There a meeting of the
Chillagoe debenture-holders was held to re-
ceive a report re the failure of the negotia-
tions for the sale of the railways to the
State for £450,000. The necessary Bill
passed the Assembly ; but the Council threw
it out, professedly because it was against
public interest, but really, so the chairman
was informed, because of the intervention of
certain shareholders. The shareholders
would not have got anything had the Gov-
ernment bought for £45Q,000; hence the
Council, so it was said in London, was
moved to reject the bill, not in order that
the State might get the line for less, but in
the hope that some day it might be induced
to pay more.
James Harris, of Broad mead, who passed
out at Dalby a few days ago, was a prominent
figure in the Northern wool business. For
five years running lie topped the Brisbane
market with the Broadmead clip.
The idea that Binglii call no more help
thieving than a politician can help talking
is not subscribed to by Australia’s most
northerly white settler, John McLaren, of
Cape York. McLaren is surrounded by a
large tribe of Binghis, many of whom he em-
ploys on his cocoanut plantation, and he has
gone south for three months at a stretch and
returned to find his house, goods and chattels
exactly as he left them. McLaren, who ought
to know, reckons that if Binghi is correctly
treated lie will not make a nuisance of him-
self. In the matter of correct treatment
the first commandment is: “Thou shalt not
THE MISSIONARY.
CAPTAIN BILL (earnestly trying to save former boon companion by describing Heaven ):
“Look, Jack, you get paid once a week now. Well, up there, Jack, it’s pay
every day. Think of it, Jack! Six pays a week! Won’t we paint the place
red?”
make amorous advances to Mrs. or Miss
Binghi, and if she be Mrs. Potiphar thou
shalt be Joseph.”
“O’Roo” : “M.F.” (B. 19/7/T7) is wrong
when he says the Redmonds adjourned to
Goodna because no hall was available in
Brisbane. The gathering was held there
solely for the convenience of Ipswich, at that
time the very heart of the faith in Banana-
land. The great shed was built as a lun-
cheon-hall ; it was from an outside platform
raised high above one end that John and his
brother William gave the bold word in the
open air to the monster crowd. There was
never such a diverse assembly of Irishmen
at Goodna as on that Easter Monday in ’B3.
every faction in the ould sod being well
represented, with shindies galore to wind up
the day.
Winning the War!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ilo! Let us bang the voluntary drum,
Once more our loud-mouthed loyalty avow,
With noise donate the patriotic thrum,
And win the war—by kicking up a row.
We bawl, and, bawling, win the artless ad.,
We do our bit by sticking to our job ;
The others fight—we “carry on” like mad,
For King and Party, Faith and —Thingumbob!
This voluntary scheme, fools say, is wrong.
But we know better. Many men remain,
Determined home-sweet-homers, sturdy, strong,
AVhose love of country is their country’s gain.
If these were forced to fight, ’twere vain to seek
For men to work, or strike, or yell “Hooray!”
Who’d mend our drains for twenty quid a week ?
Who’d bag the wheat at twenty bob a day ?
Who'd wash the bottles? Feed the helpless pigs?
Who’d brew the beer in alcoholic floods?
One volunteer the death-strewn trenches digs—
Another stays at home and digs the spuds.
These poor wage-slaves bewail the chance unkind
That chains them here in affluence and ease,
Whilst, torn with grief, in agony of mind,
They yearn to join their comrades overseas.
The voluntary system keeps them true,
These unsung braves whom none commiserates ;
They draw full pay, and manfully subdue
Their longing to be fighting with their mates.
So bang the drum, the penny trumpet blow !
Use gibe and threat, or wield the partial comb
With tongue in cheek ! And then our thanks bestow
On those who volunteer —to stay at home!
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 28, 1917.
My Dear Thargoaiindah,—
When his Ex. opened the Barcaldine show
last Tuesday he set the multitude preening
their whiskers by telling them that he bad
never before seen such fine sheep.
dentally, he mentioned that he had met Aus-
tralian sheep long before he met Aus-
tralia. When he was in the Orange Free
State £30,000 or £40,000 worth of improved
wool-producers had been imported from these
parts. He himself had bought a few head
from Mr. Slade, of Glengallan, long before lie
got a job in the Commonwealth. (P.S. lie
didn’t move that the Australian Government
should protect the country’s finest monopoly
by prohibiting the export of the pick of our
docks.)
A whole week of Red Cross collections.
For three days a “Paddy’s Market raged
in the Albert-street Square, a baby show and
a child-beauty show 7 risked raising Cain at
the Stadium, and every night concerts and
side shows provided excuses to drag coin
from the nearly-stumped citizen. One dodge
resorted to by the pirates was the sale of
“surprise packets.” Each packet contained
a number, and each number represented a
prize. There were no blanks. About 20,000
tickets were sold, and the first prize was
banded over by Lady Goold-Adams. Solici-
tor Reg King won it. It was a bucket.
And him a teetotaller! Breathless old gentle-
men tore open their parcels and discovered a
card of buttons to the' hilarious mob. A
bald man, by the humor of fate, won a packet
of hairpins. Still—-but it’s none of my busi-
ness.
Mrs. Logan entertained many guests at
the Coo-ee Cafe during the week* in honor of
Miss Abbott, who has been lecturing in India
and the “East” in aid of the Scottish
\\ omen's Hospitals.
Mr. and Mrs. William Meehan, of Calvert,
celebrated their golden wedding last week!
They were married in Ipswich in 1807, a few
months after arriving from Ireland. Calvert
has been their home for 30 years.
Two officers of the Justice Department
Sergeants G. Webb, 8.A., and H. Harvey’
8.A.. were farewelled on Thursday by their
office mates. Minister Jack Fihelly handed
over the inevitable wristlet watch and a
guarantee that their jobs in the service would
be waiting at the porch when they returned.
Passed West in Flanders last month. Cap-
tain Harvie Bridgman, youngest son of (}
F. Bridgman, of Southbrook. He fell at the
head of his charging men.
R. Iv. Miller, manager of the Toowoomba
branch of the Q. N. Bank, was married last
week to Miss Renwick. It was a quiet
ceremony, the bride’s brother having been
killed in France a few weeks ago.
Pride and sorrow are the portion of the
James Galiigans, of Goodna. Of four sons
who enlisted Trooper John was killed in
Palestine after 1!) months’ service, Pte. I. V.
died in action in France, and Driver E. a!
was severely wounded recently. Pte. Michael
is still fighting.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Poley” : Queensland is going to be in a
bad difficulty over butter storages The total
storage is 50,000 boxes, and there were
50,000 boxes of that space taken up six
weeks ago. Last year’s export was 315,000
boxes, and where the stuff is to find insu-
lated space nobody knows. Everybody con-
cerned is cursing Hughes, who apparently
knew all about ship shortage a year ago and
contented himself with going around in a
black coat saying “Ssli,” talking mysteri-
ously of some terrible secret, and whispering
about dirty work at the cross-roads to-night.
Six months’ earlier notice and the North-
ern State could and would have beaten much
of its difficulty.
“Tinana” in reply :
The Ryan Government’s “shameless extravagance”
exists mostly in the biased mind of “Politicus.”
The interest bill was higher last year than for-
merly, and the contribution to the sinking fund
was higher too. Hospital subsidies and the cost
of Brisbane Hospital were bigger items than ever
before; cost of orphanages and allowances to mothers
increased. The bill for railway wages, stores and
fuel was hundreds of thousands of pounds higher.
Ilow could it be escaped? Increased cost of liv-
ing (though still much less in Queensland than in
any other State) called for increased wages; the
weak-kneed if not dishonest Commonwealth award
in the coal industry put up the price 3s. a ton,
and the State Government, surely, had nothing to
do with that. Loan expenditure was £2,26f,000
a big reduction on the loan spendings of the year
before. There is due to the State this year
£1,244,000 from the Commonwealth by earlier
agreement, which agreement the Commonwealth is
now side-stepping. Whether or not this is part
of the impudent policy of loan-money bribery which
was offered the warring political parties of S. Aus.
as a consideration for them to agree to coalition
and the labelling of themselves as a “National
Government,” is another matter. In any' case the
Queensland Treasurer’s Statement is not out yet,
and "Politicus” deals not in figures hut in partisan
politics.


The Light Four
Touring Car
Motor Qrs
A Logical Purchase
Electric Lights Electric Starter Magneto Ignition
A. better motor car for less money.
Willys-Overland success means just that
to you.
Fcr years the Overland product has out-
sold all cars in its class.
This year, through an achievement new to
the motor car industry, the company has ap-
plied the economies of vast production to
the most comprehensive range of models ever
built by any one motor cat manufacturer.
All the general expense heretofore charged
to a single class of motor cars has been dis-
tributed over several groups, including not
only low priced cars but cars in the high-
priced class selling for a moderate price.
We can offer you the dominant value in
motor cars of either class —all cars of quality
—some one of which is exactly adapted to
your any need or pleasure.
In every class these motor cars represent
such remarkable value that every consider-
ation of pride, economy, safety and enjoy-
ment must urge you to consider Willys-
Overland motor cars first.
Tell us what kind and class of motor car
you want. Let us help you solve your per-
sonal motor car problems as thousands of
others are solving theirs —permanently.
We will gladly arrange for a practical
demonstration.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
"Country Club"
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Car
1
tiw
m
S«S
eM
m
mm
m
\\\\V\\VV\\\\\W\WWNNW'VW'V^ WW^''''
V 5
LCB SB
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
KELLOW FALKINER LTD., Melbourne.
A HAT RICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
HEATHORN & CO., Tasmania.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
TheVVillys-Ovcrknd Company, Toledo, Ohio.
Maoutacturers of \Villys-Knisht and Overland Motor Cars
and Lfght Lome*


FOR CHILBLAINS AND
OTHER FOOT TROUBLES
Don’t take
• Drastic
Measures.
Use
Tender Feet, Sore Feet. Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
“BIFF” is a scientific compound which draws out
all poisonous matter from the pores of the skin,
leaving the skin in a perfectly healthy condition,
to perform its natural functions. This unique
compound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic
EXTR * CTS from Unsolicited Letters
"‘BIFF’ has completely cured the chilblains on
my feet.”—Miss D. R., N.s.W.
"I have found ‘BIFF’ splendid for the feet.”
H.G.P., TASMANIA
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
'tores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct rom the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
and PILLS are the
great English remedy,
within the reach of all,
in all cases of Bad
Legs, Poisoned
Wounds and Hands,
Ulcers, Carbuncles,
Muscular Pains, Bun-
ions, Snake and Insect
Bites, and will save
lancing or cutting.
English Prices, 1/5, 5/- & 5/- per box
Sold by all Stores and Chemists and iolt lesa.e by
ELLIOTT BROS., ANTHONY HORDERNS’,
W. H. SOUL, PATTINSON & CO.,
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ALBERT & Co., 73. Farrinjdon St., London. E.C 4
Cinnak
Cures Colds,
Huskiness, and
Nasal Catarrh.
NO WATER, TUMBLER,
or SPOON NEEDED.
Cinnak is a pink powder in an
air-tight tube. Shake a little on
to the palm ol the hand and trans-
fer to the tongue. The Cinnak
gasifies immediately, permeates
the air passages, and at onee
relieves the stuffiness. It steri-
lises the cold germs and the cure
is begun.
The Cinnak tube is air-tig'it
and unbreakable, and can be c :v-
-ried in the pocket. An occasional
dose prevents infection.
Carry a Cinnak tube
yourself and send one in
each parcel to Fiance.
CINNAK IS SOLD ISY ALL
CHEMISTS.
1/6 PER TUBE 1/6
Try This: Two
Generations Did
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them, a
Purely
vegetable.
Carters
ITTLE
IVEK
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
A Bad Disposition
IF youi little boy or girl is unnaturally cross;
if you find yourself unreasonably irritable,
maddened by trifles—
Don’t set it down to a bad disposition and let it
go at that. Excessive irritability is a danger sig-
nal. It means that something is wrong.
That something usually arises from constipation,
easy enough to cure at first, but ravaging the
whole system if let develop. Irritability is a
symptom of self-poisoning. It means a system
poisoned by decayed food, weakened by the at-
tack of hundreds of germs allowed to multiply
unchecked in the bowels.
Nujol is endorsed by the medical profession
everywhere as a relief and preventive for con-
stipation. It brings relief to the most obstinate
cases of self-poisoning. It rids the system of de-
cayed food, and stops the development of malig-
nant bowel germs. Nujol is not absorbed by the
system but acts as an internal lubricant.
mmm
cJi
f,
r«r-
-v
- 9
* HlilllilliiliifiP! ]
FOR CONSTIPATION
Ask your chemist for booklet. Sold
only in 16 ounce bottles bearing Nujol
trademark. Never in bulk. Avoid
substitutes.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(New Jersey)
U. S. A.
'I -
fJS-
-1
mmm
t^idZsZk
\>*
m
h
>£2j ;
ESSS
aw
ftp
LY shiny
life less
a woman
sequent
a simple remedy
If you have no
need only get
APEI’SISTENT-
nose or a dull,
complexion drives many
to cosmetics and con-
despair. And all the time
lies at hand in the home
cleminite in the*house you v
about an ounce from your chemist and add
just sufficient water to dissolve it. A little
of this simple lotion is Nature’s own beauti-
fier. It is very good for the skin and in-
stantly gives the complexion a soft, velvety,
youthful bloom that any woman might envy.
It lasts all day or evening, renders powder-
ing entirely unnecessary, and absolutely
defies detection.
C COSMETIC'S can never really help a poor
' complexion ; often they are positively
harmful. The sensible, rational way is to
actually remove the thin veil of stifling,
half-dead scarf skin from the face, and give
the fresh, vigorous and beautiful young skin
underneath a chance to show itself and to
breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way,
by merely applying mercolised wax at night,
like cold cream, and washing it off in the
morning. It absorbs the disfiguring cuticle
gradually and harmlessly, leaving a brilliant
natural complexion. Of course, this also
takes with it all such facial blemishes as
red blotches, tan, moth patches, sallowness,
liver spots, etc. As a freckle remover and
general complexion beautifier this old-
fashioned remedy is unequalled.
* * * *
BLACKHEADS, oily skins and enlarged
pores usually g 0 together, but can be
nstantly corrected by a unique new process.
A. tablet of stvmol, obtained from the ehem-
st’s is dropped in a tumbler of hot water,
which will then of course -‘fizz" briskly.
Secrets of Beauty
The Cream of Modern Beauty Advice
By “MIMOSA.”
When the effervescence has subsided the face
is bathed with the stymol-charged water and
then dried with a towel. The offending
blackheads, of their own accord, come right
off on the towel, the large oily pores imme-
diately contract and efface themselves natu-
rally. There is no squeezing, forcing or any
drastic action. The skin is left uninjured,
smooth, soft and cool. A few such treat-
ments should be taken at intervals of three
or four days thereafter in order to ensure
the permanence of the pleasing result so
'quickly obtained.
* * * *
BEAUTIFUL hair adds immensely to
the personal magnetism of both men
and women. Actresses and smart women
are ever on the look-out for any harmless
thing that will increase the natural beauty
of their hair. The latest method is to use
pure stallax as a shampoo on account of
the peculiarly glossy, fluffy and wavy effect
which it leaves. As stallax has never been
used much for this purpose it comes to the
chemist only in sealed original packages,
enough for twenty-five or thirty shampoo's.
A teaspoonful of the fragrant stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair, apart
from its beautifying effect.
* * * *
IT is astonishing the number of women
who suffer from the humiliating afflic-
tion of superfluous hair, and 1 am sorry to
say that through ignorance or wrong treat-
ment the majority of them have made matters
considerably worse by causing the hairs to
grow more quickly and stronger than before.
It only requires a little thought to realise
the folly of it all. Removing the surface
growth for a few days may give temporary
relief, but in order to obtain permanent
results the hair roots must be killed. Caustic
depilatories are worse than useless, and on
no account should the hairs be pulled out.
Apart from the electric needle, which is a
costly and painful process, any chemist will
tell you that the best home treatment is
pure powdered pheminol, which has a de-
vitalising effect upon the hair roots, in addi-
tion to which it removes all trace of the
objectionable hair in a few seconds, and the
recommended treatment gradually, but
surely, dissolves out the hair follicles, which
is the only method of permanently ridding
oneself of this terrible disfigurement. [6
£
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 3, 1917,
Ist Prize, valuef © S O; 2nd Prize, value £3 O O
3rd Prize, value J^2QO;
CHANCE FOR 1917.
C. Lougton, Shipley,
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
' T - , First Prize in 1916 was won by Mrs.
.ackheath, N.S.Wfor the modest outlay of
Trades Hal!, Sydney.
•TICKETS FROM
LOCAL AGENT
One Shilling.
ARTHUR W. YAGER.
Secrcia.- v.
Lieut. Harold Trevan, of a Vic. machine-
gun section, made seven go into 120 once
and leave six and a Croix de Guerre over.
In the bitter, tangled fighting between
Bapauuie and Lagnieourt young Trevan.
whose commission was, only two months old,
captured a machine-gun from Fritz, and
pushed it beyond the Australian outposts to
a spot whence lie bowled over numerous Ger-
mans in an adjacent village. He was giving
an encore at dawn next day when his party
of six was surrounded by 120 Huns detailed
to head a rush on a village captured by Bill-
jim the day before. With better luck than
Charlie Pope, the Westralian who lost his
life and won the Y.C. in a similar attempt at
Lagnieourt, Trevan cut his way through with
the loss of only one man killed and another
wounded. And the gun was still held, too.
A little cr ift is being built in Sydney waters
for the Papuan Administration. But. in a
country whose policy has always been to let
Wilhelm do it. the building of even a little
craft has its excitements in war-time. We
are told that such and such a firm sells
everything from a needle to an anchor. But
we don’t make either needles or anchors;
and no anchors come this way nowadays.
After searching every ship and sail yard in
the country, one was at last secured to tether
the new oil launch. Then the Common-
wealth had to be ransacked for the needle —
the mariner’s needle—and one was at last
parted with as a compliment to Papua. The
boat will weather all these preliminary
storms, however, and get up steam for
Moresby in a couple of months or so. Since
the Merrie England left her bones on a
reef the Governor of Papua has adminis-
tered his kingdom by boot, being the cham-
pion pedestrian of ’Squitoland.
“Masetto” : Had a couple of hours of the
A.N.A. competitions at Meibom n j Ath uneum
last week, and heard the woes: suer eg I
have ever listened to. There is somi ,amor
in the sad show. A calmly confident girl
with absolutely no singing voice swims on to
the platform like a .Melba and massacres the
Jewel Song from “Faust” or the great
bravura solo from “Eli” without once look-
ing over her shoulder for the police. In a
horrible rendering of “lie was despised.”
from “The Messiah,” I thought the passage
referring to “a man of sorrows and
acquainted with grief” just about fitted the
adjudicator, who had a stunned look. Then
I heard a brilliant waltz song sung like a
Wesleyan hymn—by a Wesleyan, I have no
doubt. In these and other cases the produc-
tion of the voice was bad, and the words
were not enunciated at all. I suppose such
vain croakers were invented by Providence
for the comfort of musical fakirs. But why
should the A.N.A. coax them forth?
“Glen Huntly”: I have never been keen
on a moving-picture censorship, but now
we’ve got it I icould like to know how the
eminent gentlemen who boss the affair
arrived at the conclusion that there was
nothing offensive in a film tlmt was recently
shown at Melbourne. The heroine, a white
flapper, is kidnapped by a Chinese white
slaver and taken to N’Yark. She is shown
in an opium hell to likely Chow purchasers,
who con her physical allurements with care.
In the opium-den settings prominence is
given to a Chow leper whose face has been
almost eaten away, and is subjected to per-
sistent attention from flies. Finally, there is
a disgusting scene in which a wet-lipped
heathen makes a prolonged attempt to ravish
the white girl, who, at the last gasp, is
rescued by a yellow hero. On the stage a
similar scene would evoke howls of protest,
and things of the kind are made much more
nauseatingly realistic on the screen.
A story of tin* long arm :
Somner told me his story. He had a grazing- area
and was doing well, “topping up” stock for Mel-
bourne. We were sitting out on the verandah after
dinner; Mrs. Somner was at the piano within, amus-
ing herself with old Scotch songs. I had been struck
with the lady’s quiet manner and the obvious devotion
of the two. “An unusual woman,” I said. And
then he produced tin* story.
“We were married in England when I was 21, and
she was 18. By the time I was 27 we had con-
-1 rived to hate each other pretty cordially, and had
reached that stage when neither cared to disguise the
sentiment. I had had money. ] had learned to he
a little too free with cold Scotch. She had high-
life leanings, and an itch for stage celebrities. It
eanie to a squaring-up at last, and in an empty
drawing-room 1 put two-thirds of all I possessed
on the mantel, and said: “That is yours. You go
out by the front door, I go out by the hack, and
may God never permit me to see your face again!”
I came to Australia, drifted east and west for a
couple of years, picked up a little money, and cut
out the whisky. Then I took this land, and became
a small, provident squatter.
“Being thus comfortably fixed, I must start worry-
ing o\ er Peggy, wondering what had become of her,
thinking of all the unutterable folly of our brief
manied life, and how little use we had made of the
good in each other. I began to want her again.
The want lasted II years and increased with every
- eal • I h a< l instructed a firm of London lawyers to
seek her out. For a time, they found, stie had been
singing in light opera in the provincial towns.
Seven years ago she had left England—for America,
they thought. My search there revealed nothing.
“Then in a Melbourne paper T saw a photo of a
singer at a variety entertainment. She called herself
Honora Shaw. The face was my wife’s. I rushed
for the next train to Melbourne,' and had a seat in
the third row of the stalls. The hand played
Annie Laurie, and Honora Shaw came on, a tall
fair, smiling woman. 1 stood up in my place.' I
am not sure, but I think I shouted some term of
execration, and went blundering out, the audience
gaping at me. Honora Shaw was not my wife!
“I went back to the hotel, morally blind and deaf.
1 p in mv room 1 cursed creation. Then came a
sudden resolution to escape from ali this in the old
"ay. I rang the bell. Someone knocked on the
door. ‘Come in.,’ I said. ‘Bring me some whisky. A
full bottle. - My name was spoken. For the first
time I glanced at the figure in the doorway. i„ the
apron and cap of a waitress. It was my wife!”
“S.F.”: We’re starting to take the war
seriously up at Bundaberg. Look at this
AVanted to exchange, young racing goat for working
goa.t, must be thoroughly quiet. Appiv Dui.y Men
office. *


i'—li
" l ,
1.1
«:.'i
m
i’ll
■
V
m
\\
w.
m
r ■’; sL ,#-?■•
' ■ «'■ '‘ . 1 v'ij'V:
A Record Display of Tools.
A work man without tools is about as serviceable as a horse without harness. It
is "Tools” that tell the tale of the work, both as regards the expedition and the
finish of the job.
THE DISPLAY. —We don’t need to emphasise the importance of good Tools, but
we do want to emphasise the fact that for a complete, comprehensive display of the
very latest products of the Best English and American Makers our Tool Depart-
ment stands alone. We are. pardonably, just a little proud of this display,
particularly under the present War Conditions and Difficulties.
THE GUARANTEE. —We invite every Tradesman, whether he be Carpenter.
Cabinet Maker, Plumber. Engineer, Mechanic. Electrician. Bricklayer, Gardener
or Bushman to call and inspect the Very Latest and Best in the World of Tools.
Remember! We Guarantee all our Best Quality Tools, replacing if faulty.
THE PRICE. —We have stuck to our well-known Policy of KEEN PRICING
and every article is at minimum.
Don't Forget that, for our Customers’ Convenience, the Tool
Dept, is Open Every Friday Night till 9.45.
3 3
Otherwise JOHN DANKS CSL SON PTY, LTD.,
“THE HOME OF BETTER TOOLS/’
324-330 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Straet, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directohs: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
—the trade mark that is recognised throughout
the world as the HALL-MARK OF QUALITY.
This intensely human picture stands for all that is best in i msic
—it is the “His Master’s Voice” trade-mark, and it brings to you, no matter
where yon are, the very best music of every kind, sung and played by the
world’s greatest artists —the greatest singers, pianists, violinists, orchestras
and bands —all enshrined in the unequalled “His Master’s Voice” records.
Sold by accredited dealers everywhere. Record lists, instrument catalogue
and name of nearest dealer on request.
1 GRAMOPHONE ”
Unjisin ed Trade Murk.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PUT STREET SYDNEY.
The m a rh of st/porfbe
motor carsert/jco
/L
Them arte ofstiperfon
yjmotor car- sSerotcf
The Spirit in
Hupmobile
3
which the
is Built.
THE Hupmobile spirit says “No!” to every hint of
compromise or cheapness.
It injects an extra factor of safety into every part
subjected to stresses or strain.
It puts the greatest steel mills in America on their mettle
to meet the Hupmobile standard.
It guides every motion of every hand that shapes a part, or
gauges it for accurate size and fit.
It has set in motion a system of inspection -of rough
materials, finished parts, and assembled cars -which has
no superior.
It is a captious, critical, unsatisfied spirit —a spirit of
inquiry and supervision that is remorseless and untiring.
It has one thought —and one thought only—that nowhere in
the world shall there be a man who can say that his money
will buy him as good a car in its class as the Hupmobile.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater, sedan, and 5-seater and 2-seater with detachable winter tops. Motor: Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke <32in. x sJin.).
Transmission: Three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch. Rear Axle floating: type, spiral bevel grear. • Cam shaft and crank shaft bearings bronze shell, babbitt
lined. Rons' wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on 7-seater). Tyres 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 4Sin. on 7-seater. Electric
startins and lishting; ventilatins, rain vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting: side curtains; door curtain carriers; deep upholstery; speedometer; ammeter; robe rail, foot
rail and carpet in tonneau; non-skid tyres on rear; five demountable rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full set of tools. Masneto isnition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki
hood and seat covers at small additional cost over list price of car.
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
•• • •
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNIS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


OUR CABLES ADVISE
si rise of 25 per cent, in the prices of diamonds,
and even at that very difficult to get.
WHY?
Because the Belgian Cutters are no more.
England cuts but very few diamonds.
America has never cut any.
Germariy is out of it.
Holland does the world's work in cutting now, but
the German submarines have practically stopped
the export of the cut gems and the import of the
uncut.
America has bought heavily lately, so has Russia,
and hence prices are soaring.
We bought enormously when diamonds slumped and
have not raised our prices by a fraction, and so
are selling diamonds to-day
AT LESS THAN LONDON PRICES.
3 Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
on Platinum-topped
Brooch, 95 / -
3 Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
on Platinum-topped
Brooch, £7/10/-
Diamonds will rise much higher yet.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
"MILLER”
LIGHTING FIXTURES AND LAMPS
Electric — Gas—Oil
When you ask for a "Miller”
Lamp no matter whether of
the Electric, Gas or Oil variety,
you are exercising good taste and
judgment and are assured of the
very best obtainable.
Styles for all requirements
Look over the " Miller” line NOW.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
7
No. L 2318
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. & A.
s
1
x
V\
n:
Rim Fire Cartridges for Target
and Game Shooting
IN choosing your nm fire cartridges, whether
small bulleted caps or larger calibers, ally your
firearm with a name and trade mark tbat is tbe
surest guarantee to accurate shooting and non-fouling.
Tbe Remington UMC brand will
prove worthy of your confidence.
Obtainable from leading dealers and
gunmakcrs.
Descriftfvt catalogue
free uf>on request.
REMINGTON ARMS
UMC CO.
D. D. BRYANT.
Bex 686. Melbourne
eminGton,
UMC
DESIGN, MATERIALS aaJ °o
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOSIT OF
17 0 will purchase a Certificate for £i
£4 7 6 „ >. £5
£8 15 0 „ u £lO
£43 15 0 „ n £5O
£B7 10 0 „ >• £lOO
£875 0 0 „ it £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. livery Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
ta ve and benefit youreelf. Buy Certificate* and benefit your country.
Co mm ox wealth Baku of Aostbalia tjth March, 1917
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
good
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible bv
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EI'DENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean ihe teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay 1
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/. tube every!
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. KOCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne,
n, COME UP TO
; _THE SUNSHINE 2
“% SEASON
Barron Falla Barron Corse
'■>:^the wonderful hinterland.
! < Ste£%£u‘ > '3i*Sunshine , Palm Trees .
Tropical Flowers A glorious
season of soft sunshine
•$&&&$& ■ ■-'V&SI*.- and Scenic splendour
A Booklet telling,*!! about
ik^
SB.
A&me
isyouns for the askmg
/?// m Mrj coupon
Address
/o /Ac o/
Intelligence & Tourist Jftu.re*u.
Brisbane. QUEENSLAND;
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club aml Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartment!
may be secured separately by the day from !/•
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manages.
Bengers Food Ltd.,
regret to announce that in consequence of GOVERNMENT
LIMITATIONS placed upon EXPORTS they are unable to
keep their Overseas friends fully supplied at present.
Immediately these restrictions are removed every effort
will be made to send out sufficient stocks to meet all demand.
Any communications on this subject should be addressed to our Sydney Offico.
Food
is in great demand for Civil, Military, and Red Cross
Hospitals, and in Convalescent and Nursing Institutions.
From a Captain of the Royal Army Medical Corps .
Yoar Food was of great assistance to roe in my treatment of convalescent dysentery case?.”
BENGER’S FOOD LTD,
BRANCH OFFICE: „ 7 , p
And at New York (U.S.A.) 90, Beckman St
I TT
MANCHESTER. England.
Street, SYDNEY.
Depots throughout CANADA,
. 4 r :-'
Wkm
: > ■ '
PERFECT
IN TEMPER.
A perfectly-tempered blade distinguish^
The “PLUM” RAZOR,
from all others; and it gives just jhsj
smooth, velvety shave that every
appreciates.
PRICE 10/C —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Hand
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle. 1°
Pair in Double Case. 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
"Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tu
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price hist.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNE'-
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS. —^


E
GOT LITTLE SLEEP
Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
“When I started to my face
broke out in one mass of festered pim-
ples. Each pimple was mat-
tered and had a red ring the
size of a sixpence round it
and at nights the pimples
became so irritating and
sore that I got little sleep,
“I saw the Cuticura ad-
vertisement and 1 decided
to try the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. In two months
my face was smooth and not the sign of
a pimple on it.” (Signed) A. Wilson,
2 Leicester St., Fitzroy, Vic., Sept. 2,’15.
Free sample each by post with 32-p,
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card-
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SP£CML/5£
TWO
L /A !£S
I# 5
s
#
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
TKe STRAND
*■*
520 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
Za /IOMTER S’ NEWCASTLE
ID any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
I LEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
If
m
H
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
m
ni
ELEY Fourlong*
A .410 bore 2J inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 410
'Universal
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L° LONDON
# f #
.jr
r»n
10 w ( i
9
8
Westclax
BIG BEN
L 6 5
Half a Minute
Big Ben is the
half-a-minute man.
Wind and set him
in thirty seconds,
and he serves you
for forty hours.
Attend to him be-
tween yawns while
you’re kicking off
your boots at night.
Turn in and sleep soundly,
for Big Ben calls cheerfully at
the appointed time. A vigour-
ous kick —off with the covers—
you’re on your feet—your lips
puckered in a whistle —you dash
for the tub —duck in—and come
out with a ruddy skin and a
cheerful grin. The day is started
right.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial—a cheer-
ful .deep-toned voice—large, comfortable
winding keys—a light running movement
with watcblike escapement—an alarm
that calls steadily for five minutes or
intermittently for ten. At all clock
dealers, 15/-.
L a saiie, in., u.s.a. Western Clock Go. v,ake >- a °f weaaox
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A TICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium min without
lifting a hand?
m
m
*
»" A
wm
*
% 5.
? V" >
_x
Where’s the Money
Coming From?
THE children —the house —the butcher—and the gas company—all need more, and more, and
more money. You can’t do any more work —and you can’t do any different work. What
are you going to do? That’s your problem.
Your answer is here. You can get more money—for less work. When a corporation wants to
make more money without increasing its plant it calls in a great Efficiency Engineer—like Harring-
ton Emerson. Now —-you can do the same for yourself; for Harrington Emerson has applied the
principles which he has already given to 200 companies to you, as an individual, in the
Course in Personal Efficiency
24 Lessons—with Charts—Records—Diagrams—Condensed—Clear.
The Efficiency Movement has swept the world because it has brought to men who saw no
way out a new light to success.. Other nations have profited—other .nations make the most of their
time and their talents • but we in this country—with our abounding wealth, have been prodigal
with natural resources, with mental resources, with time. Now we must stop and reorganise.
And, above all, it is the individual who must reorganise himself, because it is he who is the
basis of the trouble. Let the Emerson Course teach you to conserve your brains, your time —for
these are your capital—-just as money and machinery are the capital of a factory. Learn to invest
them right. There’s more coming to you out of life —Get it. Get the money and rest and success
you ought to have. You won’t work longer—you'll work less. You are full of unused energy.
Consider country people and city people. The rapidity of the city man’s life bewilders the country
man. A day in town is a terror. But give him a year in the city, and he’ll keep the pace as. well
as anyone. He will get 10 times as much out of himself —and he won’t be working any harder.
That’s what Efficiency will do for you who are already in the city. It will attune you to a new
gait—a new zest and snap—and things 'will leap along where how they crawl. i
This Book—FREE.
14 Chapters—in Colors—lllustrated.
Send for this book. It contains the answer to the
ever-present question of “Where is the Money
Coining From?” It tells you just what Effici-
ency is—what it has done for others—what it can
do for you. Some of the Chapters:—
What is Efficiency? For whom is Effici-
ency. How you are taught Efficiency. Are
y<-u ear-minded or <*ye-m>nded ? Find out
what you are actually doing with your time.
Most failures are due to guess work. You use
only half your power. To what do some men owe
their success? Health culture. Personal finances
Mr. Emerson’s message to you.
Efficiency is an express road to success. The ordinary
way of doing is like a local—stopping at way stations of
mistakes and ignorance. Take the express and go straight
to success.
I
/8.2/8/’l~.
Institute
of Efficiency,
100 Flinders
St., Melbourne.
Please send me
free and without
any obligation your
book, “Where’s the
Money Coming- From?’’
and full particulars of
your Home Study Course
in Efficiency.
THE INSTITUTE OF EFFICIENCY (Australasian Branch)
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE. 7 Moore Street, SYDNEY.
24 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
f
Name
Address
The Inky Way.
“Trallwm”: I was chasing an elusive
paragraph along a suburban street when I
was accosted by, a stranger. “You’re the
Argage man, aren’t you ?” he asked. I ad-
mitted that I gained some few twopences
that way. “Well,” he said, “it’s about my
poor old mother” He went on to give
me particulars—jolly interesting particulars
—of the life-story of one of the pioneers: a
capital obituary in every way. I thanked
him and told him I thought it would “go.”
“When did the old lady die?” I asked in my
most sympathetic manner. “Oh, she isn’t
dead yet,” he answered. “But she won’t
last more than a couple of days. A man told
me who y’ were and I thought I’d let you
know !” I’m now waiting a ’phone message
“confirming my intimation of the —th inst.”
It’s uncanny.
# “ * * *
Adelaide Register casually confesses to a
really tragic misprint. An earnest but
anonymous letter-writer had signed himself
“Opposed to Fads.” But the paper gave
him into the hands of the enemy by printing
it “Opposed to Facts” !
W. A. CARSON,
of the WEST
AUSTRALIAN
and WESTERN
MAIL.
“Musketoon” : Passed from the Inky Way
in X. S. Wales, Charlie Chaplin, air old pil-
grim, who held his own with the best of them
as an agricultural writer. Chaplin, who used
the pen-name of “The Hermit,” did most of
his travelling on foot, and wrote up as he
went along. Country newspaper proprietors
were glad when he came to their districts, as
it meant a good store of copy such as Cocky
likes best. The old fellow was related to the
blue-blooded Beresfords, and drew a tidy
allowance from somewhere.
* * * *
Sydney Ev’ News has had a good one. The
Bombay cable about the sinking of the Mon-
golia had this: “Eric Hope Sassoons seen
swimming.” The reference was to Eric
Hope, manager of the big Anglo-Indian
firm of E. I). Sassoon and Co. But the
News apparently gave the cable to what it
would call its natatory editor, and he made
it: “Eric, the hope of the Sassoons,” etc.
* * * *
That Dr. Harold Williams who wrote the
much-quoted “Russian Realities and Pro-
blems” is a Maorilander. In these latter
days he is Russian correspondent for the
London Daily Chronicle.
“Nemo” : The first evening paper in Aus-
tralia was the News, of Sydney, whose first
number appeared on July 29, 1867; so its
golden jubilee occurs this month. It was
published at the Empire office. The first
evening paper in Melbourne was published in
1869 by David Syme, of the Age. Syme
bought* the morning Herald from George
Collins Levey, and converted it into an
evening rag, with Graham Berry as editor.
For a few years the Sydney News liad_even-
ing journalism to itself —until, in 1875, the
Herald people started the evening Echo.
But the Echo was starved —as evening
papers run from morning-paper offices
always have been —-and after 18 years it
fainted and died.
* * * *
Another headliner at work, this time on
London Daily Mail (2/6/T7) ;
AIRMEN’S ORDEAL IN THE NORTH SEA.
Five Dvys on a Piece of Chocolate.
What he meant was that a couple of British
angels had fallen into the sea and, until
rescued five days later, lia\l nothing to eat
but a hunk of lolly.
The Bulletin's infantile contributor,
Gordon Gummow, who passed his final law
exam, in Melbourne at 19, is now, at 24, the
senior partner in a Collins-street law firm.
The other prodigy in the business is Alfred
C. Cray.
“H. 0.” : For that long-searched-for rhyme,
what's wrong with :
Dishevelled and unpinned, “Oh!”
She gisped, “put down the window 1”
They break the ice in all sorts of ways. In
London Referee lately Geo. R. Sims was
put on in “Mustard and Cress” to talk about
the shortage of paper: his copy that week,
he said, was turned out on the backs of old
prescriptions. Next week a nicely-prepared
public found the price of the Referee put
up from Id. to 2d.
EARTH-BOUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As some strong air-man, battling in the blue,
Knows his invention flawless of its kind,
A well-proved work, with cunning art combined,
Complete in every man-made stay and wirew;
Then some young eagle floats Within his view,
Drifts on God-given pinions down the wind,
And careless soars, and leaves him far behind,
To goad his sluggish prodigy anew:
So I make shift a careful song to raise,
Chiselled, correct, with well-tried turns of speech;
And see some stripling, whom the Muses teach,
Soar to the heights, not knowing how nor -why.
And I must go in sadness all my days,
Having no wings, and yet the will to fly.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
S. TALBOT SMITH.


Helen Clark
the charming, artistic young Con-
tralto, whose magnificent voice has
icon her great popularity. Miss
Clark was one to prove that
Music’s Re-creation
is possible through the medium of The XEW EDISON.
Miss Clark—like many other world-famed artists have done —has
stood side by side with
The NEW EDISON
and sung in unison and comparison with Edison's Tie-creation of her
voice, and well-known music-critics frankly admit that the Re-creation
could not be distinguished from the voice of the living artist.
Xo one except Edison has ever dared to invite such an astounding test;
there is no other instrument which actually Re-creates music.
If .you are contemplating the purchase of a new musical instrument
you should most certainly inquire first about The XEW EDISOX.
M rite to-day for fully descriptive printed matter, mailed post free on
request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
40 Years a Blacksmith,
And this is what he says about
his “ALL STEEL” Anvil.
“I received the Anvil all right. It is the best Anvil I have
ever seen. lam now forty years a blacksmith.
D.R., Queensland.”
ALL-STEEL” ANVILS are forged from one solid piece of steel and the
patented process of hardening and tempering makes it impossible for any part to
crack or fall off; not like the ordinary two- or three-piece “built-up” anvils which
have horn and tail welded to the body, to crack and fly off at any time- not like
sinl- s bUllt ' UP ' anVl1 ’ the faCe ° f whlch is laid on se P ai 'ately and often cracks and
EVERY ANVIL GUARANTEED.
14 to 28 lb.
9d. lb.
28 to 56 lb.
Bd. lb.
57 to 170 lb.
58/6 cwt.
Over 1701 b., 50/- cwt.
Other Blacksmiths’
in Stock.
Tools
Anvil Tools.
Staple Vises.
Portable Vises.
Swage Blocks.
Farriers’ Knives.
Farriers’ Pincers.
Hoof Parers.
Sledge Hammers.
Nail Hammers.
Files and Rasps.
Grinding and
Carborundum Wheels.
Hack Saws.
Stocks and Dies.
Cramps.
Screw Wrenches.
Tue Irons.
Horse Shoes.
Horse Nails.
Bolt Cutters.
Tongs.
Punchers.
Porges.
Blowers.
Post and Bench
Machines.
Bellows.
Drilling
Punching and Shearing Machines.
Also Coach builders’ Woodworking Machinery.
C
Proprietary Limited
Collins Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
(Si
Bat Hurst Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
A. \'
3 ,
1 • •/
;;■ -
■ . #' **•
Sporting'
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
f
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2*}lb.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
13/6
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897
24in. octagon barrel. 22 calibre rim fire
takes 25 short, 20 long, or IS long rifle cartridges, case-
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight, 541 b
take-down. Carriage paid
Model,
magazine
hardened
90/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
wrorn
ci
“Suitable for small game and target shooting.”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine liolds 15 short. 15
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight. 4 Mb; slide action, Adi—
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
length
Same
“A good rifle at a moderate price."
1123. Savage Single-shot Kitie, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 4J11».; 30-
over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights
Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
351-
«S-Q
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy."
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s|lb. ..
60/-
"Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all, 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b Ctr>
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.) c3O/™
I«“SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle • cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
Illustrated Sports and Firearms List—Post Free.
22/6
One of the liardcst-liitting +2 cal. rifles on the market.
837. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 1(5. 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s}lb.
Delivered, «£O/0i"
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 35/9 1000; 3/7 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
straight
11 long
front si;
A perfect rabbiter’s rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12, 22 calibre, solid bree< h, side ejector,
grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or
rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
»hts*; weight. 4Rb Delivered O 31 m
SUNOL TOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
11d. post free.
87. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle, 22
barrel case-hardened frame, solid
action; weight, about 4£lb.
calibre, R.F.
breech, block
round 24in.
under lever
I’ited with open Front and Sporting Rear Sight....
Fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Sight
Same rifle, but 22 W.R.F. 25 or 32' calibres.' 2 /fl'extra.
30/-
. 42/6
L J ' / 6LIUUI6 / tjlC,
22 rnlihrp ’«“ Winche ster,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
jL„J ib 5 . file ’ peep or V si S hts » scroll trigger _ ,
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 221 b 25 "
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear si CT ht 27 /fi
(Postage N.S.W., 1/6; other States 2/8)
uuide (catalogue 15.,), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both lists. They
are money savers.
BC
tinmans ffl
7WSTRfILTa'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St also at
Tietvcasik l Brisbane


When Baby is 111
All the Household Suffers!
Hushed voices and anxious faces replace the happy home life; all else seems
unimportant until baby smiles again. The best mother is she who prevents this
dreaded time by keeping; baby well and healthy. Babies are great sufferers from
little colds, which quickly turn to bad attacks of C’roup, Bronchitis and Pneumonia.
Treat baby’s cold at first symptoms with tiny doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery;
see that he is properly ciothed and fed, and such ailments need never be feared. Baby
will go on growing all winter, impervious to winter’s ills, and set an example of
health and hilarity to the entire family.
i-
J§|
• y*i
iOii
.
II O' m i
, t
\-spS, lmfflMiX,
-V-
What Do You Give
Baby for His Cold?
Wise mothers do not experiment
with untried nostrums, but depend
on a remedy which has been compiled
from the scientilic prescription of a
famous physician, and is designed to
banish the cold without upsetting
the digestive organs. Dr. Sheldon's
New Discovery is this remedy, and
mothers may give it to their babies,
secure in the knowledge that
coughs and colds will no longer rack
the little bodies. For Croup, it
lias the most, wonderful results.
Whooping-cough is cut short by
the use of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. For the family ills re-
sulting from throat, chest, or lung
complaint, the mother's resource is
Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery.
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the
worth of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them?
If not, do not delay, but buy a bottle at once, and be ready to
pounce on to the first cold that makes its appearance. Don’t
forget, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the ever-ready friend that
should be in every household to protect you from all Winter Ills.
Best for Children and Grown Folk, too.
D» Sheldons
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
i
:
■p)o YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
■*"when you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: — “ Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron ‘Jelloids’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS No. 2A,
For Ancemia in Women , . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 1,
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1,6. Large size 3/”.
tocnMMm
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds) , mr y^
NAZETHA
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive etfed in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma (EL All Chest
Affections.
16 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the I,ittle Bottle.
m
rf
\&
T 2
The Friendless One.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE Light of Other Days (a little faded),
f The Star of Other Nights (a trifle
dim)
One mule and one horse (both a wee bit
jaded),
But, by the tilt behind of his hat’s brim,
And by the way he travelled all unaided,
And by his «l«ppn-dog. I knew ’twas
him.
Ilis hair, that once was black, is on the
grey-side ;
Ilis figure, once so straight, is now in-
clined ;
lie’s hawking from Narrandera to the Hay
side,
And out along the lonely tracks, and blind.
Just picking up the crumbs along the way-
side ;
And always leaving smiles and grins be-
hind.
They’ll say at camps and settlers’ homes
and stations,
Where all know Dan the Hawker—
“Crutchy Dan” :
“ 'E’s got no friends, poor chap, an’ no
relations,
An’ so we allers helps him all we can.”
(Gaunt, casual plainsmen, best of all God's
creatures!)
So Daniel goes through life —a friendless
man!
E’s got no friends. With summer insects
humming,
And twittering birds all found, magpies
half tame,
The half-wild Outpost children hail his com-
ing,
And to their brick-burnt mother shriek his
name.
And after supper, with the family chum-
ming,
Drought, war and rheumatism get the
blame.
They take his horses out and groom and
feed them ;
They wash his duds, and mother mends
and darns.
All things are his to use if he should need
them—
And he repays with his untruthful yarns.
God bless these people and the Plains that
breed them,
Where, travelling through a world that
never ends,
I could be happy if I “ ’ad no friends !”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
An Idyll of Combo Pocket.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UNDER the dripping bough shed and
in saturated tents at Combo Pocket
we waited for the clouds to be weary
of raining, which was the only hope of fine
weather. The rain fell ceaselessly to the
tops of the mountain ash. thence to the roots
of the fig-trees, thence pattering to the great
leaves of the stinging-trees, and thence to
the knee-deep mud and the everlasting moss.
All day my horse had struggled through the
jungle between the Barron ‘and the Russell,
treading only in the furrows of the miry
volcanic soil —the “potato field,” as men
called that squdgy alley in the dense forest.
It hadn’t been a good day for me. Wet
through from the clothes inwards by rain
and outwards from the skin by sweat, I had
fallen unto seventy times seven because my
horse was of the plains and had not learned
the trick of the potato-field. He stepped,
not in the knee-deep furrows, but on the
slippery crowns between; and when he fell
horrible was the fall thereof.
All the lunch I carried was in a bottle;
;uid in trying to hold my horse, the bottle
and a pannikin with a little water in it
while drawing the cork of the lunch with my
teeth, I forgot that I had but two hands
when the foolish horse started back in fear
of something that was not. I tried to
slip the bridle from shoulder to hand, and
my lunch fell into Lake Eacham —which
local report says is bottomless. It may be,
but six inches of water was bottomless
enough to destroy the integrity of the lunch.
So 1 started off empty, and my horse fell
again according to time-table. Then I
decided to stay off and led him through the
scrub on my own good feet. Even then he
fell occasionally; by the time we reached
Combo Pocket he had made falling a hobby.
I was glad to see that break in the forest
wall; the oozy sound of sludge changed to
the metallic tinkling of water, and the forest
broke into belts and patches, making a run-
ning fight with the circle of open country,
and dying hard. Combo Pocket, like all
other pockets, is but a little exercise-yard
in the forest prison—amphitheati'es of the
original open country, treeless, carpeted with
silver and kangaroo grass, and somehow
lifted above the volcanic flow that makes the
richer soil of the forest.
And in Combo Pocket I found the occa-
sional camp of a packer, a very hop-pole of
a Queenslander, Nazarenic as to hair and
beard. His horses were spread about the
Pocket, feeding ; their perished, rotten, brittle
gear, and the muzzles that kept them in hell
and their burden of foodstuffs safe all day
long, were sodden under the bough shed ; and
the packer himself, who seemed to love fresh
air so much that he cut all the buttons off
his shirts and so was weatherbeaten to the
belly, called to me cheerfully to stop off a
hit an’ have a drink o’ tea.
I pulled saddle and bridle off, buckled on
hobbles and let my horse go to the mob of
packers: put the saddle under the tent flap,
and walked under cover. There were two
men in the tent besides the packer; one a
slant-eyed, flat-footed fellow with “sneak”
written all over him ; the other a big rial-
bearded, blue-eyed man with a full quart-
bottle of whisky that told of Ireland as it -
place of origin.
There was whisky in the pannikin he held
in his right hand, whisky on his red whis-
kers, whisky in his humorous eye.
“•T - hell wit’ the tea, me man,” he said.
“Have a dhrink. Wan dhrink av this is'
wort’ a t’ousan’ billies of tea, just as 20
shillings do be wort’ a pound.”
“Well. I lost my lunch”
“Have a drink, me lad. Me name do be
Cavan Dan.”
“Thanks Here’s luck.”.
“Loock to you, me man. Take ye anothey,
the Oxhford an’ Cambridge Univershity.”
The slant-eyed man held out his pannikin
silently, but he hated the gibe and disliked the
giver of the feast,
The long packer grinned as he lifted his
drink to his lips, where the vessel appeared
to be seized immediately by the clinging ten-
drils of his Nazarenic beard. He removed
the cup, arose and said cheerfully:
“Drink to Home Rule for Ireland!”
Cavan Dan stopped him. “Not wit’ the
Oxhford an’ Cambridge Univershity, me
mahn. He do be an ungrateful felly, that
one. Did ye know that a noice little English-
man buy a claim av him for two hundred
pounds an’ this felly come to me camp to
cadge me dhrink be cryin’ ‘T’ree cheers for
Home Rule!’ an’ him wit’ two hundred
pounds av the dirrty Shaxon money, thin.
The ungrateful thing, an’ the cat he sowld
him ’twas so woild ’twould tear a expert’s
whiskers into raw shilk, so ’twould. Home
Rule is not a t’ing to be insulted wit’ min
like Oxhford.”
“But, fair dinkuin !” said the packer ; “you
want every bloke y’ can to get Home Rule
through.”
"Yerra ! Whin I was elicted to be a leader-
man av the grreat Home Rule parrty I had
a perfict right to go on an’ disorginate the
people because I have the cause of Home
Rule at liearrt. Now, I wouldn’t disoriginate
that Oxhford man bekase I yam a leadther
av the parrty. An’ bekase he do be a shneak
I disorginate him. in the Dublin Fkeemax
y’ll see a colim that was writ be me on dis-
orginatin’ for succiss”
But the slant-eyed man, whom he called
in derision by the name of two universities,
rose with an affectation of much dignity and
said: “Hi won’t stay ’ere to be hinsulted.
Mister Dickens, Ili will go to me hown camp.
Hi’m well hedjercated and used to the serei-
ety o’ gentl’men.”
He departed with as much dignity as if
he were a mayor, and left the rain of the
Pocket for the mud of the jungle.
“Luk at him !” said Cavan Dan loudly—
‘‘pretendin’ he do be a Univershity, an’ all he
is is a poor dhrunken man in tight boots.
Luk at him thrippin’ over shtraws, man!
It must be the pangs o’ Hell t’ be dhrunk in
tight boots wit’ your feet shwellin’ for the
dhrink in them. ’Tis them English Shaxon
shwells that give this counthry the bad
name. Whin the pretty expert kem here
Oxhford sings to him that he have tin l
grreatest mine in the worrld an’ he talks the
expert out of his siven sinses an’ thin he
says, ‘I won’t sell her, thin.’ ‘An’ don’t
you whaste me time,’ says the expert. 'Y'
ken come see her,’ says Oxhford, ‘but,’ he
says, ‘ ’tisn’t the Rotchilds have the money
to buy her,’ says he; ‘they haven’t enough
gowld,’ says he ; ‘but lookahere,’ says he, ‘y’
can’t have her under these terrums,’ says he.
'not if you was Billy Hughes,’ says he, ‘an’
Freddy Bamford,’ says he, ‘an’ Dochtor
Maloney,’ says he, ‘an’ the Rotchilds rowled
into one,’ says he. ‘An’ the terrums,’ says
he, ‘is a hundther pownd down an’ nine
hundther pownd in 12 rnuuts.’ And thin
the expert bought him out for two hundther
pownd, an’ ’twas a cat he sowld him, an’
there might be pearrls in that mine, thin, or
there might be etaysian wather, but divil the
gowld in it t’ make you wink your eye, thin.
An’ thin the dirrty, ungrateful Shaxon loafer,
afther he have tuk the Shaxon expert down,
he come to me camp wit’ his t’ree cheers for
Home Rule. I t’ree-cheered him. Says
I, ‘The wurruld is wide an’ there’s plenty
of wather in it for you an’ me,’ says I, ‘but
not a dhrop o’ Maria out o’ me quarrt for
min that sell woild cats to tin 1 Shaxons an’
want t’ give t’ree cheers ag’in ’em as soon
as they has the money.’ What do you
think ?”
“Some people would regard it as business;
but I don|t like the look of the man myself.”
“Thin y’ have a good eye to find a shneak,
thin. Where’s your pannikin? There’s
more o’ that for white min while Cavan Dan
can pull a cork. Me man ! Y’ remind me a
bit o’ Bob Flinders. Did y’ know ’im?”
“No —can’t say I did.”
“Come to look a fair squint at y’,” said
the packer, “y’ are a bit like Bob Flinders
—about the eye most. Ain’t he, Cavan?”
“ ’Bout’s eye—yes —he have a luk of him.”
“He had a bonzer eye, did Bob —that time
you was fightin’, Cavan.”
“So’d I, me lad ; so’d I. An’ a good man
Bob was, an’ good friends.”
“He’s nose wasn’t so curly as yours, Mis-
ter ; an’ he ’ad more ’air an’ better lookin’;
but, by cripes, you’re the dead-ring f’r him
other ways. I remember you an’ Bob fightin’,
Cavan —two, three times.”
“We was fightin’ plenty times, Franky,
me lad. The lasht time was a Crismus.
’Twas at Fossilbrook, an’ the wet season;
we fought there in the wather, an’ in the
mud, thin—we fought t’ree hours a Crismus
Eve, an’ got another shkinful Crismus
morrn. About nine o’clock I wint to the
horse-yarrd to have a camp. ’Twas the only
place a man could shlape in be rayson of
the dhrunk min, and ’twas soft there on the
ould horse droppin’s. I was lyin’ there be
the shtable shleepin’ like a little tinder
shucking choild. whin whack kem Bob Flin-
ders wit’ his boot on me ribs. ‘Hell to yure
soul!’ says I. ‘Why wud ye do that?’
‘Fightin’.’ he says. ‘Fightin’, y’ great, big
dirrty oakum-whiskered Choinyman,’ he
says. ‘Fightin’. (let up, or I’ll kick you so's
you t’ink you’re a empty shement cask.’ I
wouldn’t let Jack Johnson call me a Pong
and not have a cut at ’im ; though I was a
damn jackass to foight ’im thin, wit’ the
dhrink shtale in me, an’ me ribs rattlin’ wit’
the kick. But I was up an’ at ’im, and
down again, an’ up an’ at ’im. an’ thin he
troo me an’ fell on me an’ was beating me
face grayvious, an’ I says out to him, ‘Fair’s
(Continued on next page.)


WOMEN S NEEDLESS KIDNEYSUFFERING
Kidney disease in women often
reaches a serious stage before it is
recognised, because women are apt
to misunderstand the symptoms
and pnt them down to ‘ ‘ female
troubles ’ ’ instead of the real cause
—the kidneys.
When there is kidney trouble
the kidneys and bladder are liable
to become inflamed and to swell
considerably, causing symptoms
which are easily taken for female
complaints—pain or weakness in
the back, dizzy spells, sick head-
aches, the eyes grow dim and puffy,
the ankles and limbs swell, the
complexion is yellow, you are soon
tired and can’t walk far, you sleep
poorly and feel heavy and languid
in the morning—there may be
urinary disorders and gravel.
With the use of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills relief will be quick
and lasting, for Doan’s Pills restore
activity to the kidneys and bladder,
remove inflammation and expel the
kidney poisons which cause women
so much needless suffering. This
medicine has no action on the
bowels. In use 75 3^ears.
*
a
A
* Every Pic/ure
Tells <4 Story
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Stores
at 2/9 per bottle, or posted on receipt of price by Foster- McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Two Sydney Women
Cured to Stay Cured.
FROM PADDINGTON
Mrs. Jordan, 31 Green’s Road, Paddington,
Sydney, says:—“For a year I was a martyr to
backache. When I sot down quietly for a time
and then got up suddenly the pain that shot
through me was dreadful. 1 tried all sorts of
medicines, but could never get anything to suit
me until I got Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
One day 1 picked up a circular in the garden
advertising these pills, and this led me to try
them. I am thankful to say that a few bottles
worked a complete cure in my case. They are
really first-class oills for backache.”
Sixteen years later Mrs. Jordan says:—“l
have been perfectly free of backache since
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me sixteen
years ago. This is a long time, and proof
positive that this grand remedy cures to stay
cured.”
FROM CROYDON.
Mr. W. J. Wotton, “Exonia,” corner Rich-
mond and Rockby Streets, Croydon, Sydney,
says:—“My wife used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Bills for kidney trouble. She had been trying
various remedies but could never obtain anything
to benefit her until she got this remedy. There
was a constant nagging pain in her back, which
was particularly troublesome whenever she
stooped or moved about much. She also suffered
with headaches. 1 got Doan’s Backache Kidney
Bills, thinking this remedy might do her good,
and I am very pleased to state that they cured
her completely. We have great confidence in
Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills, and always
recomipend them to our friends.”
Fourteen years later. Mrs. Wotton says:—‘Tt
is now nine years since Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Bills cured me of backache and headaches,
and T have been free of these ailments ever
since. That is the best of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, they cure for good.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
fair,’ I says. ‘l’ll give you fair in the eye,’
he says ; an’ he hit me excrusihatin’. ‘Thin,’
says I to ’im, ‘Hell’s flames to you, Bob,’
says I. ‘Would you hit a man an’ a frind
whin he do be down?’ An’ Bob, sittin’ on
me chest an’ beatin’ me on the eyeball, says
lie, ‘Why, bad luck to you,’ says he, ‘when
we was fightin’ in the slaughter-yarrd lasht
Ayster Monday, didn’t you hit me on the
nose wit’ a bulljck’s shin-bone, didn’t you?'
An’ I says to him,* ‘But that was on San
Pathrick’s Day.’ Am he says, ‘ ’Twas Ayster
Monday,’ an’ I says, ‘San Pathrick’s Day.’
An’ says he. ‘Y’ Hamlet an’ Sapphira,’ says
he, ‘ ’twas Ayster Monday.’ ‘San Pathrick’s
Day, thafe of the wurruld,’ says I. ‘Honest?’
‘Be the sole o’ me fut an’ the crown o’ me
head,’ says I. ‘I beg your pardin, thin,’ says
Bob. So we go an’ have a dhrinl? an’ fought
it out a Box’ll’ Day. Arrli! A good mate
is Bob. Howld your pannikin an’ I’ll be
goin’, thin—back to me camp in the shcrub.”
He emptied the pannikin, stowed the
bottle inside his buttonless shirt, and went
away to the jungle on the tracks of the
Oxford and Cambridge man. As the l’ain
had stopped for a minute I prepared to fol-
low him, although the packer begged me to
stay the night. But I told him I wanted to
make to the Russell, and could manage it
by sundown, and then he insisted on catch-
ing the horse and bringing him up ready
for the saddle. While I fixed the crupper
and buckled the girths, he told me of the
feud of the slant-eyed Cockney and Cavan
Dan.
“The English bloke,” said Dickens, “says
he was took down be Cavan Dan.”
“He seems honest enough.”
“Oh, that way, yes; but the English bloke
says Cavan Dan broke up his ’ome.”
“How ?”
“Took the English bloke’s half-cask away
from his camp.”
. “Half a cask —why?”
“Not half a cask —a half-cask. Y’ know,
a close-up gin—half white, half black.”
“Oh, I see —a half-caste.”
“That’s what I said. Cavan Dan takes
this here half-cask away from Oxford and
Cambridge ’n’ treated her better than the
English bloke ever knew how. An’ then the
English bloke goes around grumblin’, say-
ing a Englishman’s ’ouse is his castle. But
this wasn’t a castle; it was a eiglit-by-ten
tent, and a lot of holes in it an’ on’y half a fly.
These English blokes has a queer way o’
talkin’, an’ he doesn’t like Cavan now—he
says Cavan broke up lie's home. Anyway
he didn’t have any sense playin’ half a
Combo, or a full one, either. Bad to own
anything that’s easy winnin’.”
“Cavan seems happy.”
“Hasn’t a care in the wide. Once he was
on a boat on the Einasleigh in a flood. He
had 20 pounds’ worth o’ dingo scalps—lo
shillin’ a scalp bonus, y’ know—an' half a
case o’ whisky. The boat capsized an’ he
let the scalps go; but he gets the ivhisky
ashore. ‘Praises be, the last time I went to
me duty,’ ses he, ‘I saved Maria.’ He
always calls whisky Maria.”
“I see. Well, I’ll make a start Good-
bye, old man.”
“Good-bye, mate. Any time y, see me
jest pull up for a drink o’ tea, an we can
have a pitch. So long.”
“So long, mate.” ..
My plain-bred horse and I started to tan
on the crowns of the potato-field all over
again. By this time we were well rehearsed
and our performance was much admired by a
wallaby who came out of the jungle to
scratch ticks off himself.
* * _ * ,*,
Three months later I met the packei inc-
kens between Melnny s and Loudoun Mill.
He was packing tin, and his grin was as
kindlj 7 , his beard as tameless, and Ins s
as open to the winds of Heaven.
“H’lo, Dickens, liow are you.
“You’re the bloke with eyes Bke Bob
Flinders. I remember. W hy, lam t seen
you since Combo Pocket. Y know the Eng-
lish bloke! He got three months for pinch-
in’ a watch. Pity we can t nave a pitcii. x
-D* s tin in . d Law’s
Right. Im pushing ,
Cavan Dan. ,
P e became suddenly g -
Vo J£s’., , , ,
‘Dmn t y know.
,'R° —s *J ie ’iw'f ‘ • :„> tbf>
°° r ’ . Cavan . ' , holTles o’
Russell in flood an him down
Maria in his shirt bim down
When we got him next daj .he slo. t t
bottles, but theres o ,V , , \nd
sne of the SoYe" "
know he s Buiy him ivith the Bib els
on him—he gloved it so! feo we did. I ooi
B' a n.
„[ ™ ve know , he didn’t know
how to do anything' but laugh, did Cavan!
He always said he d die on the field of
an , gG he did . Not a bit of harm in
him. Well, he won’t disorginate for the
Home Rule party any more. Poor Cavan
D , Well< So long .»>
■ l( g> j ong o ] d man .”
“Next time we’ll have a pitch.”
“Right—it’s a deal.”
“So long, mister.”
“So long—mate.”
The long stripg of tin packs disappeared
over the granite rise.
Poor ,old Cavan Dan !
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Thursday Island Nocturne.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 IE anchored fishing luggers strained at
I their chains as the impatient tide
vaoe d through the Strait. A light,
, . • , , , a
whimsical breeze stirred tne moonlit wateis
, ’ , ~ , , , .
i,n< 3 carried even to the distant beaches a
strange medley of human sound. Many
races an d many castes and crosses con-
tributed> Aboriginals from Cape York
, . , ... . , , - ~
chanted something born before the earth in
labor gave birth to the islands of Tories
Strait. From a boat in the distance brown
men chorused defiantly to as much of the
world as listened. Mabura, the Papuan watch-
man on the Mission schooner, sandwiched
verses of the Glory Song in between snatches
of wild crooning, savage even in its pianis-
simo. Moving seaward for the pearling
banks a diving lugger passed swiftly on the
ebb, while Ivoichi, the master, and Yamashita,
the diver, called their sayonaras to the fleet.
Mellow laughter broke across the silvered
scene and vibrated over the town beneath
the hill shadows. The Strait was full of
lure and life. _
As I smoked a pipe on the jetty-end with
old Sinclair, the diver, there were long word-
less spaces while the fretful water muttered
and gurgled amongst the piles in its deliri-
ous haste for the open spaces, and endless
shoals of sardines splashed musically by.
Somewhere on the island heights fort lights
flashed “All’s well” in dot and dash. It
was a night full of witchery and sensuous in
its beauty.
“Sort of steadies a man’s nerves,” ven-
tured the old man. And I left it at that.
Sinclair had always a few expressive words.
We walked leisurely homewards through
the Island streets as the pipes petered out,
the old diver still sparing of speech. As he
said himself, “Words are like pearls: open
a thousand shells and maybe you won’t get
one worth while.” Never a sentence passed
until suddenly he turned into a dark,
narrow alleyway. “There’s chaps,” he said,
“who don’t like the moon and the brine in the
wind, and things like that. We’ll go and see
some of ’em.”
Through the murk came the hum of
The air was scented with opium. Several
men went by us in the gloom. We groped on
to a small secluded building. As we opened
the door foetid air rushed to greet us. There
was local color in the gambling-den all right:
Chinese, Malays and white men ; and many
and varied piebalds. The Jap was not repre-
sented. Probably his ideas of sanitation were
too advanced.
In a dim, hazy light the crowd jostled and
jabbered and sweated. A wily-looking
Chinese presided over the lottery table, and
urged the patrons to put their money on
“Dead man” or “Stinking fish” or something
else which the characters on the Chee-fah
tickets represented. Two other Chows ran
Yankee sweat tables and in borrowed phrases
shouted, “Wha’ abou’ littee tlee?” or
“No forget littee fi'.” Fools parted with
their money quickly and Ching Do and Com-
pany smiled blandly. It was beautiful, the
trust that was reposed in the proprietors of
the den. It filled one with hope for the
future of White Australia !
A quarter-hour in the inferno settled even
the old diver. He whispered, “Air’s better
at 20 fathoms ; come on.” We staggered into
the slightly purer atmosphere of the alley-
way and made for the strip of moonlit sea
that showed through the dark.
“Gives a man a touch of malaria,” said
Sinclair. I gasped agreement.
We blew away half a pipeful on the sea
front by way of disinfectant; and as we swal-
lowed a deoch and doris in the bar parlor
we were grateful for the kiss of the whimsical
breeze. Mabura, down on the Miss' 1
schooner, was singing as finale a Papuan
dering of the “Te deum laudariius,” partlv f
the plentiful results of his harpoon a 1
partly in gratitude for the great white nHt
HALF MOON.
The Open Air.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SING! Sing, sweet air! Your nfishtv
music spill * *'
Upon the songless ground
That circles me around;
And roaring, pouring with tumultuous thrill
Ilurl harmonies from Heaven’s deep
Till cataracts of rhythm sweep;
And madly, gladly lift my spirit up
O’er snowy mountain height,
O’er slumbrous clouds of night,
To drink immortal draughts of Nature’s cup'
Sing ! Sing ! And in a magic rLg
Whirl moon and star. Or leap, and flint-
The yellow sunlights on the leaf,
And Laughter at the feet of Grief.
Fill up the lily-leaves with Mirth,
The larkspur light to happy birth;
And sweetly, fleetly round the rosy sun
Trill of your lilting life that ne’er is done!
O veil of God ! O clear felicity!
Your crystal dews of Joy
My silent senses cloy.
Your gleaming, streaming lights of liberty
Dissolve their beings into mine;
And clinging mists that round you twine.
Flood, lipping, dipping me in deeps of Truth.
With myriad-minded trees,
From bowls of beryl breeze.
I sip the soul of everlasting Youth.
O innocence of ample air!
Ambrosially moist and fair,
Translucent flow your springs of light
Through dancing day and nodding night;
And, palely-pure, your starlight streams’
Delicious meads of musing dreams • J
That lightly, whitely ripple land and sea
With balm of beauty and cool chastity.
Ocean of life! Wine of eternity!
Y'ou bubble to the brink
Of every hope I drink;
And leaping, sweeping in an ecstasy,
Billow with bliss the ant and midge,
The midnight moon and rainbow ridge; ■
And glowing, flowing in an endless flight. I
Gather the spacious sun
The stars and tides in one;
While Death herself dies, drunk with your
delight.
Sing! Sing, sweet air! Your breath .re-
mains
In vapor, cloud or opal rains;
And drowned in you, my love and I.
Beneath the blossom of the sky,
Float on like souls to paradise,
Meeting in yours the* Maker’s eyes
That purely, surely through your stainless
sea
Tlarbor the gleam of immortality.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents—H C LMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feathersfon Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
SAfCGUARD YOUR HEALTH
qT J.Coflis Brooinels
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE 108
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
auU in ttic Cougli of BRONCHITIS ami
CONS C MPTIOX.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
N ESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices ir\ England, lIS, S /-, 5/-.
Made in England.
“Indispensable”
—a word largely used in these days —may be said to accurately express,
in so far as any single word can, what is the careful and considered
conclusion which has been arrived at by many people who use
Beecham’s Pills. They consider that Beecham’s Pills are “indispen-
sable” to their health, and, as a matter of course, to their happiness;
and they never allow themselves to be without a supply of this valuable
medicine in their homes. This latter is an excellent idea, and one
worthy of imitation--for there is no doubt whatever, that, as a preven-
tive medicine—one that may be taken with confidence when perhaps
only an “out of sorts” feeling is experienced and before any definite
ailment has developed—Beecham’s Pills are a positive boon. They do
good all round;— they tone up the stomach, correct the action of the
liver, regulate the bowels and are a powerful agent in purifying the
blood. It is certainly a good plan never to be without
BEECHAJVI’S
PIL>L»g
m <w> '«■» mr*
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10id (36 pills), 1/H (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium ivin tvithout
li-f+nnn a hand?
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ehtab. 1891.
r. ■«!
I*!
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia—or bloodlessness—
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Thereiore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeling of
intense weariness pervadss
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘ Wincarnis ’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks—
gives a sparkle to the eyes—
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
io 000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
•wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
Belling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fass'tt & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street. Sydney. N.S.W,
fiSEsam
VII I 1" 1 fl i L I 1 'TT
°a° liij a o a llil D o° IJIi a a a Ur
borrt^d
TflLCVjm POWDER
Pl*»*m*n Chimiuu V-O
ftHwdlW.N J XJ.S.A
aoliSiDnliliool lIIDD
What is Talcum Powder?
TALCUM is an inorganic substance
—neither dampness, heat or perspi-
ration affect it. Rice, starch, and other
vegetable powders are organic— they
are affected by temperature and
moisture—perspiration sours them—
when sour they become a source of
irritation and a breeding place for
infectious germs.
rrertrrerfs
Borated Talcum Powder
will not sour or ferment; and, medicated in the proper proportion,
covers baby’s skin with a protective coating against
threatening germs. You use Talcum Powder in
such unlimited quantities on the sensitive skin of
your baby, that the selection of a pure,
safe powder is of great importance.
GROWN-UPS
Mennen’s Scented Toilet Talcum*
Sen Yana - With a seductive odour of the Orient.
F esb Tint- With the odour of Roses, and delicately pink.
V iolet- With the dainty scent of "Violettes de Parme '
Cream Tint-A "Rachel' - powder with no orange blossom odour
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND STORES
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
17 Victoria Street
I.Z.
Trade Mart
109 Pitt Street
Sydney. N.S.W.
1
JT\
:
fieSß a
..
m
thoroughly British— —and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents. HAMMOND CQ. CO.. 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents : QLD. MOTOR AGENCY LTD.. Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents. H. C. PANNIFEX, 20 MarKet Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.


mangrovite!
LEATHER
SELTINC
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGHOVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on annlfcatlon.
Mine Manager’s Friend.
‘An Eagle on a Globe” Brand
Easy to Sharpen, Durable
and Efficient.
Supplied
in OCTAGON and
CRUCIFORM SOLID SECTIONS,
HEXAGON and ROUND HOLLOW SECTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
* 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Hardies
FIBAOLITE
3
(Regd.)
The Australian-made
Asbestos Cement Sheets
Do not crack, chip or rust. They are fire-
and vvhiteant-proof. Use them for exterior
and interior walls, for ceilings, panelling, etc.
Samples and full details from: —
JAMES HARDIE 8 CO.,
Tei. 6239. Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
WOLFE’S
Acts directly and
® ■
I miIHLUiUU.
wou»«*s
MUM smtiii «ita»
imm
mini
«**i untin
niiin\
Schnapps
the bladder and
the kidneys.
Machinery
Department
MILLEIfSNHNT,SYDNEY
Tangye Portable Oil Engine.
Clayton Portable Steam Engine.
High-grade & Popular Agencies, comprising the following lines-
TANCYE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam
Engines.
TANGYE Boilers, Suction Cas Plants, Pumps, Jacks, etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction
Engines.
» eep shearin & Machines & Cream Separators.
NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements.
JOHN BUNGLE & SONS Cnaffcutters & Corn Crushers.
E.R.B. Separator Engines. CANE Milking Machines.
Catalogues posted free.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine
Buncle Travelling Chaffcutter.
THE
give every satisfaction.
Those who have tried assert positively and with solid
foundation that the “Wa|seley M are wonderfully satis-
factory machines.
They ensure low cost of upkeep and greater all-round
efficiency, and are the world’s best.
Get full particulars. Address your enquiries to
Dalgoty & Company, Ltd., Australasian Agents - All Branches.
COMPOUND REST GRADUATED COLLARS
GRADUATED BOTH COMPOUND REST AND /
/
UPPER PULL PIN
O CHANGES
ALL GEAR
LOWER PULL
/VA ' \ * X CANNC'f ENGAGI , 1
- / \ \ V accident/-Li.V
UIVA Vn'ON-INI arfering DEVICE
CRO-iS THROW-iN FEED AN*
; •; \ HA. r ■ i AfGAI-'H u
AM PL t OIU
Iff \
LONcrruDu
CROSS f-EED RATIO
1 To A
■•Y/ORi.* ATiD V;/ORMVvHEfc.I r-LTD
\ PUNS in c»l
. ■ CREW
ACSWPStMkN fS MADE
A T t^Np
D^crm
T o STW ,
When Time and Production cut
important figures in your costs
it pays to instal
Modern Machine-Shop Equipment
We have in stock for immediate delivery Modern Machine Tools designed to
handle to-day’s work under to-day’s conditions. Tools designed to increase
your output and reduce your costs.
High-speed Engine Lathes, Universal Milling Machines, Universal
Grinders, Drilling, Shaping, Screwing and Sawing Machines.
Write for Catalogue and Prices or call and inspect.
.
Engineers and
>0 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
The New "Hydromas”
Hammer Drill.
The Fastest Rock Drill In the World.
Made by the Climax Rock Drill Co.,
Cornwall.
The Result of Nearly 40 Years’ Experience.
- ~ -
■ _ .
t
J-fflfr-
■ ■- ./ '\ '■: •;
/■ i: • r
RECIPROCATING DRILLS.
THE, CHERSON (British Made)
Light, Extremely Strong, Very Simple.
THE OLD FAVORITES—
Little Giant (Q, Slugger
with Modern Improvements.
City Office: Equitable Building', 350 Georg'e St., Sydney.
Manufadurers and Importers of Mining' Machinery and Appliances.
