

THE SPIRIT SUP
LIST
Our Brave Australian Boys are Galling for YOUR HELP!
The traditions of your race demand a willing and noble response.
Will you fail them in this hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF YOUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS JT T T !
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written. ™ *
WATKINS (Sl* CO., Iron and Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney.
QcCvcmcz. c^iionei/-
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY /]
BILLS DISCOUNTED u
EASY TERMS G LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&1.C9 LT?
HEAD OEPICE: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
i Next to ‘‘Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
w
WRITE TO-DAV FOR SO-PAQE BOOK.
OSCILLATING
WALf
EMBEDS
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY
JCt old medal
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
For In- and Out-door Sleeping
American Wall Bed 'Co.
380 George Street, near Q.P.0., Sydney
Hultorx’^
Hernia a Bacorv
RAWSON MOODY ALL-STEEL FENCE
built with powerful steel posts and wire, and
possessing wonderful advantages over wooden
post fences, as it saves 80 per cent, in erection
labor and weighs only 25 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For full particu.ars write to The Rawson Moody Mfg\ Co., 343 Kent St,
Sydney, or send for an Illustrated Catalogue B.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
kek mm
J
INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPStA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class I’rke Medals.
1
“SCRUTTON’S” for OIL ENGINES.
Positively THE “Right Firm” to supply you with the WORLD’S BEST (English or American).
Only a few left. Order Early to avoid disappointment.
CASH or EASY TERMS.
R. L. SGRUTTON & GO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
•• Where the Beat Engines are Sold."
The White Heart on the
Black Bottle.
JPKZ.
THE GENEVA of Purity
and High Quality.
NOTES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. (MELBOURNE) PROPY. LTD.
Electrical, Mining: & Industrial Machinery
nPALOID
TOOTH
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 38.—N0. 1957.]
[Thursday, August 16, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


A SPIRIT OF QUALITY.
GILBEY’S DRY GIN.
PURE and WHOLESOME.
SEE THAT YOU OET OILBEY’S.
This celebrated Gin is
specially recommended
for those suffering
from
KIDNEY
COMPLAINTS
and
RHEUMATISM.
TUCKER (Si CO., Sydney, Sole Agents.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
liUj
\\V&s
ENE
V-
• ■
ON
esr.
Smted for Old and Young, for
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Con;
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
The large sale for EUMENTHOL JU JUB ® S
bulc lUr Xli UIU A xx\j ±J till*
has led to a number of imitations hehis? nia ,
factured under the name of menthol and . °„f n »
jujubes. It is important, therefore, when bu =
to be sure and get HUDSON’S EUMENTHOh
to be sure and get huusub o jau
JUJUBES. You may be asked to buy °t
t. , x_-ij xi afi
jujubes, and be told they are “just =
as Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This prov®
that these imitations and substitutes have
reputation of their own, and can only be s
on the good repute and high character of “
son’s Eumenthol Jujubes. Sold by all Cherny
Price Is. 6d. per tin. L
The Red Page
More Sonnets by Masefield
What is this life which uses living cells
It knoivs not hoto nor why, for no knoivn end,
This soul of man upon whose fragile shells
Of blood and brain his very powers depend?
Pour out its little blood or touch its brain,
The thing is helpless, gone, no longer knownj
The carrion cells are never man again,
No hand relights the little candle blown.
It comes not from Without, but from the
Sperm V '1
Fed in the womb; it is a mare-made thing
That takes from man its poicer to live a term,
Served by live cells of which it is the king.
Gan it be blood and brain? It is most great.
Through blood and brain alone it wrestles
Fate.
J*
Can it be blood and brain, this transient
force
Which, by an impulse, seises flesh and grows
To man, the thing less splendid than the
horse,
More blind than owls, less lovely than the
rose?
Oh, by a power unknown it works the cells
Of blood and brain; it has the power to see
Beyond the apparent thing the something else
Which it inspires the dust to bring to be.
Both blood and bra-in are its imperfect tools,
Easily wrecked, soon worn, slow to attain;
Only by years of toil the master rules
To lovely ends those servants, blood and
brain.
And Death, a touch, a germ, has still the
force
To make .him e’en as the rose, the owl, the
horse.
You are too beautiful for mortal eyes,
You tke divine unapprehended soul;
The red worm in the marrow of the wise
Stirs as you pass, but never sees you whole.
Even as the watcher in the midnight tower
Knows from a change in heaven an unseen
star,
So from your beauty, so from the summer
flower,
So from the light, one guesses what you are.
So in the darkness does the traveller come
To some lit chink, through which he cannot
see
More than a light, nor hear, more than a
hum ,
Of the great hall where kings in council be.
So, in the grave, the red and mouthless worm
Knows of the soul that held his body firm.
a sea on which the souls embark
Out of the body, as men put to sea?
i Or do we come like candles in the dark
In the rooms in cities in eternity?
Is it a darkness that our powers can light?
Is this, our little lantern of man’s love,
A help to find friends wandering in the night
In the unknown country with no stars above?
Or is it sleep, unknowing, outlasting clocks
That outlast men, that, though the cockcrow
ring,
Is but one peace, of the substance of the
rocks;
Is but one space in the now unquickened
thing ;
Is but one joy, that, though the million tire,
Is one, always the same, one life, one fire?
From “Lollingdon Downs.”
J*
Lollingdon Downs and other Poems with
Sonnets (Heinemann, 3s. 6d.), is the latest
collection of John Masefield’s poems. Though
no mention is made in this volume of a recent
American collection entitled Good Friday,
the majority of these superb sonnets, the
highest level that this surprising poet has yet
reached, has already appeared in that
American collection; and several were
selected therefrom for quotation on this nage.
It will be observed that Masefield uses the
Shakespearean sonnet form, with four rimes
instead of two in,the octave, riming alter-
nately, and with the riming couplet at the
close. The other poems are extremely in-
teresting; and the collection is one that no
lover of modern English poetry can afford to
miss.
The Irish Mode
Thomas MacDonagh. of University College,
Dublin, writes brilliantly of the Irish Mode
—his substituted term for the Celtic Note.
In his valuable and original Literature in
Ireland (Unwin, per Sydney Book Club) he
lays down three theses: (1) That an Anglo-
Irish literature is only possible when Eng-
lish has become the language of the Irish
people, and when the literature is by and for
the Irish people. (2) That Irish ways of
life and ways of thought are importantly dif-
ferent from life and thought expressed in
other English literature. (3) That the Eng-
lish language in Ireland has an individuality
of its own. and the rhythm of Irish speech
a distinct character. The Renaissance, which
profoundly affected European literature, has
left Irish literature almost untouched. “Sex
counts for little enough in Irish or Anglo-
Irish literature. Mr. Synge’s people talk
more of it than others, but even they do not
give it the importance that it has in most
modern literature; they do not talk of it in
the decadent, suggestive way, however morbid
the analysis of their creator. They talk of it
rather like the Irish peasantry, whose lan-
guage is at times coarse enough, while their
conduct is almost impeccably proper.”
MacDonagh speaks of Anglo-Irish litera-
ture as we speak of Elizabethan or Aus-
tralian literature, confined either in place or
per] cd. He rightly insists that it is dis-
tinctly a new literature, individually Gaelic,
filled with memories of the old Gaelic litera-
ture, but expressed in English, moving to the
rhythm of Irish music—“a thing that mat-
ters very much to the metric of the new
poetry”—rich in fresh metaphor. The author
rules out the so-called Anglo-Irish literature
of the 18th century; the Irish Mode became
possible only when both authors and readers
knew English.
The Anglo-Irish literature has no literary
lumber. “English literature has had some
difficulty in getting rid of the phraseology,
the inversions, the poetic words, the cumber-
ous epithets, the mannerisms of its pastoral
and of its genteel days.” An alien tongue
has now become the Irish mother tongue, and
the Irish writer has to take his metaphors
first-hand from life. “The song in the new
language demanded an intellectual effort
that gave it a worth apart. English had to
be broken and remade to serve that song.”
This language of English, worn by centuries
of use, “serving Shakespeare and the sten-
ographer, used efficiently in William Blake’s
lyrics and in telegrams,” in which the modern
author has to use counters instead of coins,
and whose readers perfectly understand his
allusions and his hints, is a language in
which the ideas of the Giael do not find easy
expression.
J*
The author’s comparison between the
structure of the Irish and English languages
is fascinating. The Gaelic verb precedes
its subject, the adjective follows its nouns.
English in Ireland won’t conform to Gaelic
rules; thus the English sentence, I go to
Cork, may have three meanings according to
the word stressed. Translated into Irish it
reads, It is I that am going to Cork (/ go
to Cork) ; It is going to Cork that I am (I
go to Cork) ; It is to Cork that I am going
(I go to Cork). MacDonagh shows that to
translate the word weed into Gaelic we
must substitute the phrase the growth of
wild plants in a soft sodded grassy plain.
Of Syuge the author says he was more
often rich than right in his phraseology. He
crammed his language too full of rich
phrases. And though Synge said that he
used no form of words that he had not actu-
ally heard, MacDonagh suggests that he
took note only of the striking things, neglect-
ing the common stuff of speech. Yet Synge
compares favorably with his contemporaries:
he treated Irish with the respect he had for
French. Yeats has confessed that when he
wrote his poems he hadn’t seriously con-
sidered the question of the pronunciation of
Irish words ; he pronounced them as if they
were English. He does not defend his
system; as always, he is ready to revise his
poems.
More important still is MacDonagh’s
analysis of Irish rhythm. English rhythm is
governed by stress. While in English the
tendency is to hammer the stressed syllables
and to slur the unstressed syllables, in Irish
there is by comparison a uniform stress. An
Irish child reading the word unintelligibility
pronounces all the eight syllables distinctly
without any special stress on any, though
his voice rises and falls in a kind of croon,
going high upon the final syllable. In Anglo-
Irish verse the unstressed syllables are more
fully pronounced, thus producing an entirely
different effect.
This statement is the key to the curious
fact that the reader can pick out as in-
dubitably Irish certain poems, even though
these may be written in English, may not
be Irish in subject, and may apparently
have an English scansion. The most char-
acteristic example of such Anglo-Irish poems
is Yeats’:—-
I will arise and go now, and go to Innisfree,
And a small cabin build there, of clay and
wattles made;
Nine bean rows will I have there, a hive for
the honey bee,
And live alone in the bee-loud glade.
And I shall have some peace there, for peace
conies dropping slow,
Dropping from the veils of the morning to
where the cricket sings;
There midnight’s all aglimmer, and noon a
purple glow,
And evening full of linnet’s wings.
I will arise and go now, for always night
and day
I hear lake water lapping with low sounds
by the shore;
While I stand on the roadway, or on the
pavements gray,
I hear it in the deep heart’s core.
MacDonagh tells us that you must read
some of the lines as if they were lines of
prose. It is wrong to scan these verses, to
cut off the syllables according to the
measure of a rhythm that rises and falls
sharply and regularly. “Mr. Yeats, for all
his want of musical ear, owes, I believe, this
peculiar musical quality of his early verse
to that Irish chant which at once saves Irish
speech from too definite a stress and from an
utterance too monotonous and harsh....
The effects of our more deliberate Irish
speech on our verse are: (1) a prose in-
tonation, not monotonous, being saved by the
natural rise and fall of the voice, a remnant
of the ancient pitch—a quality, as it were,
of chanted speech; (2) a tendency to give,
in certain poems, generally of short riminz
lines, almost equal stress value to all sylla-
bles, a tendency to make the line the metri-
cal unit.”
J*
There is no necessity in Anglo-Irish
verse for inversions, quaint words and turns
of speech in order to conform to the strict
rhythm of English verse. The resultant
colloquial naturalness may also be due to tire
newness of the English language to the Irish.
And the author makes the valid claim that
the English spoken by the Irish now is prac-
tically the English that came into Ireland in
Shakespeare’s time. In that undisturbed sanc-
tuary much Elizabethan English has sur-
vived. “We are fresh from the natural home
of man, the fields and the country.. .. but,
above all, we are fresh in language, which
the most city-hating English lover of nature
cannot be. We are the children of a race
that, through need or choice, turn from Irish
to English. We have now so well mastered
this language of our adoption that we use it
with a freshness and power that the English
of these days rarely has.” The author adds
an interesting selection of Irish poems to
illustrate his thesis.
This brilliant critical study is most valu-
able. It is good to find a Dublin professor
professing the things that most matter to
Ireland and himself. We have professors of
literature in Australian universiti.es; but
hitherto it has not occurred to any one of
them to discuss or analyse or form any
theories about Australian literature or the
Australian language, with the possible ex-
ception of an Austral-English dictionary,
now with the new influx of words from the
war hopelessly out of date. Of these Aus-
tralian professors this page asks these ques-
tions: Is there a distinct Australian variety
of English, or the prospect of such a differ-
entiation? Is there any characteristic Aus-
tralian rhythm in verse? Any national verse
form? Any racial peculiarity of intonation,
accent or stress that is working on our
metrical system? Is there a group of Aus-
tralian poets who could be immediately
marked as Australian, not from their sub-
jects or local settings or slang, but from
evidence of the way they use the language
or the metre? And when they have answered
these questions there are others.
The author was one of the leaders of the
Irish Rebellion and was shot by the British
Government. The same publishers issue a
volume of his poems.
Ernest A. Boyd’s comprehensive volume
of Ireland’s Literary Renaissance (Maun-
sel, Dublin, per Angus and Robertson)
is a valuable history of an interesting
movement. Rightly the author excludes
from his survey such names as Wilde and
Shaw, who with Goldsmith and Sheridan
belong to English and not Irish history. A
genuine Anglo-Irish literature began only
with the definite eclipse of the Irish language
in the 19th century. Ireland had to lose her
language to save her literature. Boyd treats
fully of the precursors and the sources of
the Irish renaissance, and he salutes as the
father of the revival Standish O’Grady. The
author accepts the assertion that the Irish
invented riming verse: he demonstrates “the
existence of riming verse in Ireland at a
time when such forms were, so far as we
know, undreamt of in other countries” ; and
he also ascribes to the Gaelic genius the
invention of blank verse. When one con-
siders the long martyrdom of editors and
critics to rime and blank verse, one is in-
clined to curse the too inventive Irish. Boyd
agrees with MacDonagh that the chief dis-
covery and most notable characteristic of the
Irish Revival is the effective employment of
the Anglo-Irish idiom, of which Douglas
Hyde was the first to make proper use, and
to whom Synge owes much of the felicity of
his dialogue.
Of Yeats, to whom three chapters are
devoted by Boyd, he says that his plays have
no imitators, and have had no influence on
the form of Irish drama. And Yeats him-
self admits that he had a hard struggle to
shake himself free from the influence of
Shelley. Deliberately he had to eliminate
from his style those qualities he knew to be
un-Irish. And Boyd gives short shrift to
Yeats’s mysticism : “His visions do not con-
vince us, because they are obviously literary
rather than spiritual.” Boyd endorses Lionel
Johnson’s wicked suggestion that Yeats wrote
for the stage in order to hear fiis own verse
spoken: “Whenever he considers the per-
formance of a play, his chief concern is for
the music of the words and the picturesque-
ness of the setting. The movements of the
actors do not engage his attention, except it
be to see that they are reduced to a mini-
mum. Everything that could tend to lessen
the plastic passive pose of the actors, to
distract attention from their utterance, is
thrust aside. In the theatre something more
is required than artistry of voice and eye.
He has simply tried to place his poems on
the stage, with a view to their being heard
by many rather than read by a few. With
the help of every artifice—not excluding that
of simplicity-—he has worked to this end
that a beautiful poem might live and move
before the people. It is here he has sue-
ccodecl, in spite of &11 that criticism may
urge against his plays as such. If Bernard
Shaw has .used the theatre for the propa-
gnrnlu ot ideas, Yeats lias turned it
account of Beauty, aud who will den!
his contributions have been as di’JX.- that
their kind as those of the author of tr™ S °!
Superman? He found a style which esff
lished him in the first rank of living n/7
He challenged directly the attention nf P p etS '
lish critics, and by taking his pl ace b£S£
the best hving poets in England he fS
h country men from the inevitable aUnif
ancy of the English tradition.” NowS'
the greater part of Anglo-Irish
written and published m Ireland, betokenin!
in Ireland a state of civilisation to wh
Australia has not attained. But few If h
writers of any literary importance are finfn
c-ially successful, while the writer who snh
mits to Anglicisation or to the “stage Irish
ness” of the popular novelist still attract!
a large audience, “as witness the careers of
our most distinguished expatriate and of the
Irish novelist who at present boasts the
largest circulation.” Obviously Shaw and
George Birmingham.
Of A.E. it is said that almost every Irish
writer of value to-day owes something to
him, even George Moore; and of John
Eglinton that his Pebbles from a Brook is
one of the few books Ireland has produced
which challenges comparison with the best
prose of any English-speaking country
Thomas MacDonagh’s best work is com-
prised in his translations from the Gaelic
The Irish dramatic movement is treated
with the fullness that it deserves, yet with
a freshness hardly to be expected from a so
much criticised achievement. Boyd observes
that Anglo-Irish is to Synge a medium that
he uses .with the same effect as the Eliza-
bethans used English—with the savor and
freshness of a language that is still unex-
ploited, the wealth of imagery and the verbal
magnificence of the Elizabethan. But the
penalty of his success is the modern sub-
mersion of the National Theatre in peasant
comedy and melodrama. The majority of
the later dramatists shows so marked an
affection for violent effects and purely ex-
ternal drama that the local setting of their
work seems fortuitous. In fact, the work
of Synge and of Padriac Colum, who confines
himself to the realistic interpretation of
everyday country life, completes, as it initi-
ated, the dramatic realisation of peasant
Ireland; though the names of Lady Gregory
and William Boyle deserve mention. Folk-
drama has become fashionable and profitable.
“Synge’s occasional violence of language has
become a regular part of the stereotyped
peasant plays, while Colum’s quiet realism
is transformed into sordid melodrama. Mur-
der, drunkenness and crime are the favorite
themes.” Yet the popularity of the Abbey
Theatre has sufficed to give immediate recog-
nition to the genius of Lord Dunsany, whose
work, by the way, is not treated with the
fullness of appreciation that this page should
expect of so tremendous a dramatist, though
his prose works receive their meed of praise.
The weakest aspect of the Revival is the
novel. George Moore’s The Lake is the
only novel of distinction, as The Untilled
Field is the most perfect book of short stories
in contemporary Irish literature. The reader
will acquiesce iu Boyd’s dictum that the liter-
ary Renaissance has accomplished its pur-
pose : it has produced a body of work which
may fairly be described as the nucleus of a
national literature, and “it has shown a more
marked originality, in respect of form and
content, than Belgium or any other country
similarly dominated by a powerful neighbor.”
•
“Harrison O.” : Reviewing Dixon Scott’s
“Men of Letters,” the Red Page (28/6/17)
refers to Scott’s “discovery of the extra-
ordinary perfection and technical import-
ance of Shaw’s prose.” Shaw is' not pleased
with the discovery, or pretends that he is
not. Writing of Scott’s book, under the
title, “The Artstruck Englishman,” in The
Nation, Shaw maintains that a man of
letters is a prophet or nothing. “To listen
to a writer’s message, even' when the fellow
is a fool, is one thing: to worship bis tools
and his tricks, his prose and his style, is an
abomination.” Shaw objects to Scott’s
analysis of his (Shaw’s) sentences, and
especially to his quoting as a specimen of
style “a long sentence of mine, which
derived a certain cumulative intensity fro®
the fact that it was an indictment of civil-
isation.” Says Shaw: “It was very much as
if I had told him the house was on fire, and
he had said: “How admirably monosylla-
bic ! and left the nursery stairs burning
unheeded.” G.B.S. reckons that Scott was
not a critic, but “a mere fancier.” Still, 1®
admits that the dead writer was “an exceed-
ingly clever young man,” and that reading
him is “like watching revolver practice by a
crack shot.”
The end of August is the date up to which
entries for cinquains will be received by this
page. This pseudo-Japanese form of verse
consists of five lines in iambic metre. The first
line contains one foot, the second two feet,
the third three feet, the fourth four feet, ana
the fifth two feet. There are, of course,
two syllables in each foot. The h ne3
needn’t rime. Full particulars in RT- J' als
26. Half a guinea for the best.
The war has written finis to the Common-
wealth Government’s ambitious project o
the publication of Historical Records of ’ -4n s "
tralia. Till the world stops making history
ours must wait.


a
CHALLENGE OIL ENGINES
The CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE has been DESIGNED to MEET the
REQUIREMENTS of the MAN on the LAND, who DEMANDS an EFFI-
CIENT, RELIABLE, EVEN-RUMNING Engine. The CHALLENGE
has MAGNETO IGNITION, is Q TICKLY started, EASILY operated, and
REMARKABLY economical in FUEL CONSUMPTION.
•i' 'tr
TOT
CHALLENGE
WE STOCK THE CHALLENGE
OIL ENGINE in SIX SIZES,
Aa follows:
The Challenge Oil Engine
is neat and compact, and
even the lower-powered
types are capable of per-
forming heavy work. We
quote the following as
having been done by a
2-h.p. model: —Drove a
2in. Centrifugal Pump,
giving 5000 gals, per hour
on 20ft. head; 3in. Centri-
fugal Pump, giving 11.000
gals, per hour on 12ft.
head; Dynamo, 20 lights;
Bone Mill, 100 to 200 lb.
per hour; Hay’s Corn
Shelter, 25 to 50 bushels
per hour; Cream Separ-
ator, any usual size;
Chaft'cutter, up to Oin.
mouth, 2 blades; Meat
'Chopping Machines, 351 b.
in 5 minutes; Churns,
Wheat Grader, Milking
Machines.
CHALLENGE WINDMILLS
THE MAN ON THE LAND has OFTEN to
LEAVE the FARM WORK he is doing to
REPLENISH the HOUSEHOLD WATER supply.
The ACTUAL operation of PUMPING daily from
a WELL to the HOUSE TANK does not take up a
GREAT DEAL of time, but in the AGGREGATE it
represents HUNDREDS of WASTED HOURS
YEARLY. He should instal a CHALLENGE
WINDMILL to do the pumping for him. The
TIME SAVED would be REFLECTED in the
MONETARY RETURN from his farm. The UP-
TO-DATE MAN uses a CHALLENGE WINDMILL
and CONTINUALLY SOUNDS its PRAISES.
The CHALLENGE CONSTRUCTION is the
EMBODIMENT of SUPERIOR MECHANICAL
ELEMENTS, BROUGHT TOGETHER for the first
time in ONE UNEQUALLED COMBINATION;
and PRODUCING A WINDMILL of EXCEP-
TIONAL MERIT.
Briefly stated, these elements consist of an
INTERNAL GEAR. CENTRE ONE-PIECE
CRANK. ROCKER ARM, SPLIT BOXES, with
detachable, reversible BABBITT BEARINGS,
interchangeable with graphite, SIDE VANE and
MULTIPLYING SPRING GOVERNOR.
• The internal type of gear is recognised by
mechanical engineers as superior to an external gear
ini: at least two respects. First, twice as many cogs
inr mesh. Second, noiseless. These features secure
strength, long life and satisfaction—all that is obtain-
able in gear transmission.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ STOCK THE CHALLENGE WINDMILLS IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES
7 V
a
(-post, in 10ft. sections—
TOWERS FOR CHALLENGE WINDMILLS.
20ft.
£0/5/-
Weight—
Gross 3981b.
Nett 3151b.
30ft.
£10^18/6
4851b.
3601b.
40ft.
£12/15/6
7851b.
6651b.
Special 30ft. for I2ft. Mill
£12/15/6
7751b.
6751b.
ILLUSTRATED LEAFLET SENT ANYWHERE ON REQUEST.
RELIABLE OHIO ENS
COTTERS
The OHIO No. 11 CUTTER and BLOWER, as shown, will DEAL with ALL
KINDS of DRY FEED, as well as ENSILAGE, at the RATE of from 3 to 5
TONS per HOUR. The model shown, the plain-table type, although a POWER-
FUL machine, requires but 5 or 6 h.p. to drive it, while the self-feeding model
needs no more than 6or 7 li.p. The OHIO No. 11 is STRONG and DURABLY
built, and is fitted with two knives of high carbon steel which retain their cutting
qualities. OHIO BLOWERS ELEVATE MORE ensilage per horse-power than
any other blower. The reason is plain. The same shaft that receives the power
from the engine carries the cutting knives and the blbwer fan.
No. 11 Cutter and Blower, with two 11-inch knives, cuts 1, 4 and 1 inch..
Fitted with Self-feeding Table :.
£25
£3O
Prices are for machines complete,
with Blower and Hood.
Tin. Galvanised Pipe, in Cft.
lengths, 1/7 per ft.
The OHIO No. 13 STANDARD FEED and ENSILAGE CUTTER is also
a NECESSITY on an UP-TO-DATE FARM. The good points which a farmer
looks for in such a machine are these—STRENGTH. DURABILITY and SATIS-
FACTORY OPERATION. The OHIO No. 13 contains all the latest IMPROVE-
MENTS. and is in EV ERY \\ AY RELIABLE. From 4to 6 tons of ensilage or
from 2500 to 3500 pounds of dry feed can be cut per hour. By substituting
shredder blades for the cutting kniyes, perfect shredding may be accomplished.
With two knives it cuts 1, 1£ and 2 inch, and 1,4, £, and 1 inch with four
•knives. The speed is from 450 to 000 revolutions per minute. The train of
feed-gear pinions, clearly shown in picture, vibrate as the feed roller raises and
lowers, yet their movable bearings maintain the respective distances to each other
and keep the gears properly in mesh without friction, which gives a uniform motion
to the roller. The backwardly-indined motion of the upper roller, as it raises,
assists in taking hold of the feed, and this, combined with other good points, makes
these machines strong feeders. Price
Sgf
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
. < * - * «• • - - '


LOOK OVER A
Winchester
X
w*
V.
J0
%
r
&
AND YOU WILL
FIND NOTHING
OVERLOOKED.
That’s what has made the reputa-
tion of Winchester Rifles, aside
from their own peculiar and suc-
cessful construction. The system
being all right, the next thing is to
make them right. This the Win-
chester people have always done.
They spend large sums of money
in testing materials, in inspecting
and gauging parts, and in testing
finished guns for manipulation and
shooting, so when the gun reaches
you—it’s a perfect shooting iron.
There are Winchester Single Shot
Rifles, Repeating Rifles and Auto-
matic Rifles, and you can get
them in various calibers suitable
FOR ALL KINDS OF HUNTING
Self-regulating! m
Waterman's
(Ideal]
FoufitaSxiPen
Absolutely noikvtvd *
to do but write. ike H
patent and inimitable
Spoon Food regulates
the inkflow to the
very last drop in 0
the pen
Three types —Regular, Safety,
and Lever Pocket Self Filling.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere
L. G. SLOAN,
. ChclJen (Soriter * ENGLAND.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105 Clarence St.,, Sydney.
I
r
k
k J
k
k
k-.
csil
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough —you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do vou
want to obtain an Appliance that is not o'nlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and wo
will send you particulars and testimonials
Tgarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tided everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is'
in fact, TIIE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The Dad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM pres’
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St.. Melbourne. Vic.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium ivin without
lifting a hand?
77ie m arA of superior
[mefor cer service
A
K
The77l arh of superior*
.motor car*seruicq
Hupmobile Conforms to Best Standards of Two Hemispheres
W HEN you purchase a Hupmobile you have the satis-
faction of knowing that you have purchased a car
which conforms to standards-approved by the whole world.
The best European practice iii motor-car construction has
entered just as much into the building of the Hupmobile
as has the highest American' standards. The best is
adopted wherever it is found.
In proof of our statements, look at the Hupmobile. Its
lines are European lines. Consider the Hupmobile motor.
It is four-cylinder and has always been four-cylinder.
And the Hupmobile manufacturers believe, as most Euro-
pean manufacturers and owners believe, in four-cylinder
powei, simplicity and economy of operation. In many
lands the Hupmobile is known as the u European car at
an American price. This is an apt phrase which describes
that added carefulness which enters into Hupmobile con-
struction that surer appreciation of beauty in design
that recognition of the value of comfortable riding qualities
and luxurious appointments—in combination with a price
that unusual production facilities has made lower than the
a\eiage price of cars in the Hupmobile class.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS. -
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater, sedan, and 5-seater and 2-seater with detachable winter tons ~
Transmission: three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch. Rear Axle floating tvne snirnl iLi-„i ’ Lour-cylmder, 95
wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on 7-seater). Tyres 875 x 105 m m or'sii’n x 4in on •> Ca T s,laft “ uu crank shaft bearings
starting and lighting; ventilating, rain vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting side curtains; door curtain carri^f 930 ? 120 m/m or 35in. x 4>.in.
rail and carpet in tonneau; non-skid tyres on *rear; five demountable rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full Jt ‘ deep upholstery; speedometer; am
hood and seat covers at small additional cost over list price of car. set of tools. Magneto ignition, wire wheels
m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (3«in. x s’>in.h
shaft bearings bronze shell, babbitt
on 7-seater. Electric
ammeter; robe rail, foot
heels, special colors, khaki
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACIvERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD.. Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD.. .Melbourne and Geelong.
PHOENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth
a'hatr,™ 'T' 11 “ EI!V[rE - Hobart, Tasmania.
N / <o ' LTD > Wanganui and Wellington. N.Z.
N.z. FARMERS. CO-OP. ltd.. Christchurch, N.Z.


RHEUMATISM
Its Cause—and Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by a curious,
poisonous acid in the blood. This acid, just
like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and
causes that awful agonising pain of back-
ache,. rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the
bladder, etc.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
strengthen the kidneys and drive the
poisonous pain-causing acid right out of the
system.
URIC ACID CRYSTALS
MAGNIFIED
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid
of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Kemember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change to
a muddy bluish color —a feature which dis-
tinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Bills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing
touch on the right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s pills
give such amazingly quick relief —every
time. A permanent cure follows in almost
every case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Tills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms, no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
Dewitts
Kidney U Bladder Pills
Nature’s Safest Remedy.
How I Darkened My
Grey Hair.
Lady Gives Simple Home Recipe That
She Used to Darken Her Grey Hair.
For years I tried to restore my grey hair
to its natural color with the prepared dyes
and stains, but none of them gave satisfac-
tion and they were all expensive. I finally
came across a simple recipe which I mixed
at home that gives wonderful results. I
gave the recipe, which is as follows, to a
number of my friends, and they are all
delighted with it. To 7_oz. of water add a
small box of Orlex Compound and loz. of
bay rum. These ingredients can be bought
at any chemist’s at very little cost. Use
every other day until the hair becomes the
required shade. It will not only darken
the grey hair but removes dandruff and acts
as a tonic to the hair. It is not sticky or
greasy, and will not rub off or stain the
scalp.— Advt. [5
torp; tlv Teua ■. v?:W.
| | mm" *“*“
' sUsh?r<? ycftn
U&xr a?ifa
H
ra
Allens
or
WALjWUt
II
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
In Grandpa’s Courting Days
—Yes, as long ago as that —there was a standard, safe-
and-sure, proved effective family remedy for
allthroat and chest troubles, and its name was
m
To-day it is still the safest; speediest,
surest Remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis Whooping Cough and
Influenza, relief of Asthma and a
f preventive of Pneumonia. If it isn’t
Bonnington’s it isn’t any good.
Large & Small Bottles. 1/6 & 2/6
TOBACCO KILLS!
w.
\&9
"V
-JZ
?
Face lo Face with Deal 1 - t
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp, and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together with
our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for thirty
years, hut since taking your sample of Tobacco
Specific / have never had a smoke.’’
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. Q,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
i§
0
m
Right Makes Might
RIGHT ideals of building, the rule
which puts quality first; here is the
might that has built Firestone fame.
Right design, right materials, right work-
manship, right service; this has been
the Firestone standard for 16 years. It
is the secret of a success without rival in
sales-increase and industrial prestige.
Ride on Firestone Tyres for luxurious
comfort, insurance against delay or acci-
dent and the economy of Most Miles per
Shilling. Let your nearest dealer serve you.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrirk & Co., Ltd.; Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garage $
Write for Illustrated Literature
TYRES
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Calm.
All last week and the week before
There was scarcely a break on the long sea-
shore ;
Lit it lay
In the sun all day,
And ever at night
In the soft starlight
It watched the sea like a child at play.
Always, as though with a race to win,
Ripple on ripple the waves came in;
By night and noon,
By sun and moon,
On rock-set reach
And silvery beach,
Each following each on velvet slioon.
Drifts of snow on the stirless blue,
Hither and thither the white gulls flew,
Or paused to rest
On ocean’s breast,
With brooding head
And wings outspread,
Like mothering birds upon their nest.
Evermore in that wondrous calm
Drowsed the plumes of the pine and palm,
And far and high
In the purple sky,
When sunset’s hour
Made earth a flower,
Black swans went trailing slowly by.
Never a white-topped wave a-surge
Broke the blue to the distant verge,
Where morn and noon,
Through the lotus swoon,
The great sea lay
Like a land-locked bay,
Or the cloistered breadth of a still lagoon.
And as ever and ever the hours went round,
Seaward setting and shoreward bound,
Soft queens of grace,
With trains of lace,
And snowy sails
And burnished rails,
The tall ships moved with a measured pace.
All last week and the week before
The slow wave crept to the long seashore
With one low psalm,
And died in calm ;
No wind let loose
Disturbed the truce
Of wave and headland and pine and palm.
All last week and the week before
Thundered the guns with a riving roar,
Death and despair
Filling the air,
Early and late,
With horror and hate,
And killing and chilling the young and the
fair.
Oh, for the young and the bright and the
brave!
Oh, for the truce of the wind and the wave!
The seas that roar
In wrath no more,
The peace and calm
Of the pine and palm,
And the olive leaf and the dove of yore!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Charm.
All for the sake of a barefoot maiden
I left my tower in the secret wood
To tempt as only a wizard could;
I showed her coffers with strange gems
laden,
And kirtles broidered with silver and pearl;
Gold combs from waters syren-haunted.
Ambergris, coral, in vain I flaunted
Before the scorn of that peasant girl.
Then under the moon, with unholy motion,
Vervain, agaric and hellebore,
Bryony, nightshade, a deadly store
I plucked, and I brewed a mad love-potion ;
And, swift as it sparkled, on bended knee
I offered the draught of honeyed peril
In a flagon carved from a single beryl.
But she said: “Such wine is too rare for
me.”
So I took the foam of a wave unbroken,
And the soul of a bud that never bloomed,
The dark of a midnight Spring-perfumed,
With a sidelong leer of passion unspoken ;
Evil and innocence, shadow and light,
Together I wove with the Words For-
bidden.
And down in the coppice I waited hidden
While the web in my hand waved snaky-
bright.
And I flung my net when at dawn I found
her
Gathering berries and beechen mast;
I cried : “Your heart is my thrall at last!”
But the shimmering meshes slid harmless'
round her,
And she laughed in my eyes as they floated
apart.
“Go play with your spells, Sir Wizard.”
she told me,
“There’s never a one can hurt or hold me,
For Corin the swineherd has my heart!”
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Moonrise.
I saw the great star-galleons blow
Across the quiet seas of night;
Each bore upon its dancing prow
A yellow lanthorn burning bright.
The star-folk landed in a bay
Of misty wave and cloudy dune.
And wandered up the Milky Way
To taste a matchless bowl of moon.
From out the great white cup a-tilt
Of wine-o’-moon they drank their fill,
And then with twinkling fingers spilt
' The thin white dregs on field and hill.
N.S.W.
CHARLES F. PETTINGER.


Perdr iau T y res
Made in Australia.
Strength of the FABRIC CASING in a lyre is the
main essential.
.
A Tyre is only as strong as its weakest strand of
cotton duck.
We have proved to many hundreds of motorists that the
Fabric Casing of the PERDRIAU TYRE is perfect.
The adhesion between the plies is faultless, so much
so that they will not come apart, even though
* the tyre has met with an accident and been run
with a liner.
The tread of the PERDRIAU contains more rubber than
any other tyre, and the quality is such that the
majority of PERDRIAUS outlast by a big margin
the period they are guaranteed for.
m
o
cs/
■
m
tm
PERDRIAU
Rubber Co. Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
* application, to forward a free copy of the
*newand enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Nava.! and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
•S’
vv
M 2
*
mmmm
m
& £■
READY FOR
THE PARTY.
For children as well as grown-ups
there is no more appetising sand-
wich filling than
"REX”
Luncheon Cheese
It has a. piquancy of flavor that
appeals to every palate. You
spread it like butter.
Sold by all Grocers. Be sure
you get “Rex” brand.
Save the Lids
as the extra top on Rex Cheese
tins is not now being packed at
our factory. One will cover
several in turn if cared for.
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food
Products.
raws
ft
7
»/
E
X
v=
mjy
For All “Outdoor-
ing” Rex Camp
Pie Fills the Bill.
For the ravenous, not to be denied,
insistent hunger of all outdoors.
“REX”
CAMP PIE
both hits the hungry spot and yet
says “More! More!” For picnics
it’s fine. For hurry-up meals
great and economical. For break-
fasts, luncheons, suppers, auto
trips, boating parties, etc-., it
stands on its own.
Serve it with salad —as it conies
from the tin. It is all meat,
packed in a firm jelly.
OTHER “REX” CANNED
GOODS are:— '
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal anti Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausage.
“Rex” Eorraine Sausages.
“Rex” Pork and Beans.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in
Jelly.
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jelly.
“Rex” Punch Tongues in
Jelly.
Also “Rex” Eard, for cooking
purposes.
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “ Rex” Pure Food
Products.
The Everlasting: Valve.
A BOON TO ENGINEERS. patented
Solves all
your Valve
Troubles.
Stops Leaks.
p
-J.
Means
Mechanical
Efficiency,
Durability and
Economy.
Section «? \fctivc.
Saves time otherwise lost in Repairs, Re-grinding, Re-packing,
Manufactured under License by Write for Descriptive Leaflet.
etc.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD
City Office : Equitable Building,
350 George St, Sydney.
grand old spirit.
An exquisite flavor and splendid quality
have popularised Thorne’s throughout
the world* If you delight in a superb
spirit—next time call for
THORNES
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.
Richness in higher ethers makes Martell's of special merit for
use in hospitals. Connoisseurs, too, prefer it as a beverage.
Martel I’s
One Star and Three Star
Brandy.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rost Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 38. No. 19'7.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1917.
I.’ISJCE 60.
THE INFAMY OF THE CARD SYSTEM.
ORDINARY PERSON: “But, really, as a mere member of the public which pays your wages, I can't see what all this fuss is about!”
POOR VICTIM: “What! Can', you see that this brutal and tyrannical Government expects us to do the work were paid for?"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications ivill be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotnh, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4)1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.-— Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — lF. G. P. Per era, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; 81oz. to lOoz., 21d. :
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
zHeZztfi.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1917.
THE CURTAIN GOES UP A BIT.
A few weeks ago, when Donald Mac-
kinnon, Director-General of Recruiting,
commenced inviting people who advocated
compulsory military service to shut up
and accused them of “childishness,” this
paper suggested that the time was nearly
ripe for the Federal Government to get down
to bedrock about this war business. Mani-
festly the whole question of recruiting turns
upon the military situation in Europe, and
it could only be childish to talk about
the necessity for enlistment to the full extent
of Australia’s powers if the position at the
Front was so favorable that it did not
demand all Australia’s powers. Well, it
was not the Federal Government that came
out into the open with the truth about the
position, but Mackinnon. And when he
was next heard from he Avas telling a very
different story. A fortnight ago talk of
compulsory sendee Avas idle chatter. Now:
Mr. Mackinnon had no hesitation in saying that
before this war is over Australia will be compelled
to throw into the fighting-line every man between
the ages of 18 and 45, and we will be lucky if Ave
have not to call up those of even more tender and
more mature years. It is our duty to go forward
now and tell of the desperate position of the
democracy we understand and enjoy, in order that
the manhood of this country shall realise lioav things
stand, and see that onlv by exerting their utmost
efforts and rallying as one man to the colors could
they hope to save Australia from the hands of an
unscrupulous and powerful foe.
All of Avhich represents about as compre-
hensive a somersault as this paper has lately
noticed. And the reason? Just the plain,
simple one that Mackinnon has himself
given up talking as if he were clad in
knickerbockers.
The Allies are not tvinning the war nor
anything like it. and for the first time
since Mackinnon took on his job he has
got to that bald fact:--
The newspapers, like the courtiers of a powerful
monarch, onlv told the sovereign people the things
that they liked to hear. They did not tell them
what was going on at Bagdad, or at Gaza, or the
truth about the submarine campaign and the failure
of the efforts to cope with that menace. The Ger-
mans had already succeeded in seriously interfering
with Great Britain’s food supply, and they Avere now
preparing a fleet, of underwater craft, each of 5000
tons, which could navigate the seas of the world,
and that fleet the Germans were undoubtedly going to
use in connection with some great light between
themselves and the British. It was quite on the
cards that the Germans would come out and engage
the British fleet, and by means of those new boats
break through the British blockade, and succeed in
sinking what remained of the mercantile marine.
That was what they were up against. They could
not hide from themselves that Germany was extremely
strong. It was no use disguising the fact. Every-
body must realise it, and to-day every free man in
every free country was required to help to defeat
that nation... .To-day was the darkest day of all
in the history of the Empire and of the war. France
had had a terrible blow. She had got as much as
she could handle. Russia, from whom they expected
so much, was no longer of any practical use, and
that great harvest of wheat, of which they had
all heard so much, and which was to be made avail-
able as soon as the Dardanelles was opened up,
would, in all probability, fall into the hands of the
Germans and give them a fresh lease of life unless
Russia could first manage to destroy it. It was no
use shutting their eyes to these facts. Russia was
putty; Russia was dust. She was a feeble thing,
like a drunken man in a prize-fight, absolutely of no
use, and no one could depend on her to-day.
Taking everything into consideration, The
Bulletin believes that Mackinnon is
stating the case with even greater modera-
tion than the circumstances of the hour
justify. For three years Australia has been
chloroformed —knowingly, deliberately and
wickedly chloroformed. The newspapers
have been full of the wildest trash about
it —yelling “Victory!” when there was no
victory, blithering about the smashing up
of this line and that, flinging ignorant bom-
bast and braggart forecast before the people
day in and day out; and behind them all
the time was the sinister hand of the Censor
and a Government ever ready with the gag.
The consequence has been that almost the
entire population has either refused to take
the war seriously or had its collective mouth
full of a cocksure certitude about the result
than which nothing could be more dangerous.
Ever since the tragedy of Gallipoli com-
menced this paper—which knew what it
was talking about, on that matter, anyhow
—urged the Federal Government to take the
wool off the public’s eyes and let them see
for good or ill the kind of thing Australia
and the rest of the world was in collision
with. It might as well have talked to a
gumtree. To-day it is at liberty to say
this much, at any rate —-matters, which have
always been bad. have not improved; the
future of Australia is now more in jeopardy
than at any time during the war; every-
thing men and women of Australian birth
have held dear are in the gravest peril; and
some of these things—ideals, ambitions, call
them what you like —have perished already.
Somebody ought to be hanged or shot for
the prolonged misleading of the Australian
people; for the refusal to permit the truth
to be told about that shameful mismanage-
ment, which was making the nation’s sacri-
fices futile; for piffling with irrelevant
theories and for frowsy political plotting
when the enemy is almost battering at the
front door and fresh pages in the national
history are being written every day.
Reinforcements for France! Why. unless
worse things are done to the German in
Europe, our troops may yet be wanted on
the soil of this Australia of ours! So far
from being beaten. Germany stands four
square across Europe, three nations in ruin
before her, another struggling in the throes
of anarchy, a fourth bled almost white. Her
submarines take daily toll on the ocean.
All these things are clear because they can
no longer be hidden. The Allies may win.
If they do it will only be through sacrifices
such as the world has never yet heard about.
If they fail, then the clock will have struck
midnight for Australia. More than ever
now it is the duty of the Federal Parliament
to be worthy of its trust, for the Ministry to
show that its claim to the title “National”
is not an insolent jest. The peoole should
have the truth in full measure. Their coun-
try is at war. They are entitled to hear
about the struggle through some other voice
than that of a British politician talking not
to Australia but to Berlin. Can anyone
induce Hughes to stop bombarding Ger-
many with words and get down to the plain
discussion of war problems in the light of
the existing facts and with an eye to the
future integrity of Australia? If there is
any such person he ought to get to work
at once.
THE ’BUS.
When the trains and trams lately ceased
running in Sydney except at rare and
uncertain intervals, everything on wooden
wheels was dragged out to take the
crowd of city workers to their job. Among
the skurrying vehicles moved the long-dis-
carded ’bus, its ancient glitter of paint a
trifle dim, but in all essentials the same
vehicle that lurched over ruts and rattled
down the stony way when smoky steam-
trams were still a novelty and electricity
was a toy of the laboratory. The fares were
high, the time wasted was great, the bumps
of the journey were severe; but the way-
farers took it all in holiday humor, and tried
to imagine that the strike was merely a pic-
nic with larger opportunities for beer and a
jolting discussion of the war. Here and
there in the nearer suburbs the lounging
strikers who hooted the sparse and crowded
trams cheered the ancient horsed caravan on
its way. It was the outward and visible
sign of their strength. By downing tools
they had held up the huge, costly and com-
plicated machinery of a State and set the
’bus wheels turning to the profit of the odd-
job man and the everlasting glory of union-
ism. It was a clear proof of what combina-
tion among the workers could do. and an
earnest of some still greater hold-up in the
future. Coal was “black” ana therefore
there could be no steam to turn any mechan-
ical wheel. Daring spirits foresaw the ease
with which the bay and chestnut in the
traces could be made “black" also —in fact,
it was only necessary to declare boot-leather
"black” and the public would not even be
able to walk to town. But for the present
the ’bus was sufficient, and its appearance
worth a good union cheer.
The ’bus, called forth from its ancient
rest, is, however, more than an emblem of
the strength of combined labor; it is a very
distinct indication of the direction in which
Labor’s strike policy is going. By slow and
painful steps that often had a financial
stagger about them, the machinery of city
life had been built up. Once the majority
of the workers of Sydney were compelled to
walk to their daily job ; later, the ’bus came
along as a time and toil saver; still later
the railways and trams took up the running
and chopped hours off the worker’s actual
time of service by enabling him to leave
home later and return earlier. To demolish
all that has been built up would be no
tremendous task for the combined efforts of
labor unions; but the point that union-
ism does not see, and that its failure to
see makes so dangerous to itself, is that the
return of the ’bus means the return of the
days of the ’bus. The worker’s lot is not a
perfect one. There are any number of
things that the individual unionist has not
got that by combination, earnestness and a
little thought he could easily secure; but his
position to-day, as compared with his posi-
tion when the ’bus was the regular means of
getting to town, is a most advantageous one.
In point of plain fact the older unionist, of
that day would regard his dreams as having
all come true if he could climb out of Rook-
wood to-day and face the worst evils that
might confront him in his day’s work, That
his successors in the labor ranks should
deliberately throw away the best of the ad-
vantages they possess and bring again the
conditions of the ’bus time seems hard to
credit; yet it is exactly what they are
doing when they make war not so .much
upon the public as upon the conveniences
which make the life of the public tolerable.
Whether the card system in the Government
workshops is right or wrong, whether the
men have real grievances or only imaginary
troubles, there can be no sort of doubt about
it that the general strike is a bad weapon,
and one which must always hurt the users.
In holding up the power, food supply and
general communications of the State the
strikers hold up themselves. Rut they do. a
lot more than this; for the State always in
a sense lives from hand-to-mouth, however
provident its individual citizens may appear
to be, and those who paralyse the State's
business are bound to make up the loss by
their own efforts or go short through the
general shortage of the things they need.
Thus the ancient 'bus stands for union
defeat; for while the ’bus runs instead of the
tram and train, the community as a whole
can do no better than it did in the bus days,
and the vast idleness of the strike stands for
plain loss to the strikers, whatever strike-pay
they may draw, and whatever alleged vic-
tory they may win.
The union cheers for the ’bus make it
perfectly plain that the great bulk of union-
ists have not considered the thing in its
real bearings at all. There is a sort of con-
fused notion that inexhaustible wealth lies
behind the State and the big private indus-
tries, and that whether men work or not
things must go on just the same. The real
wealth of the country is just what it pro-
duces, and an all-round stoppage of work
would in a very short time leave the com-
munity with no wealth at all. There might
be money available; but money would be
poor wealth if it could buy nothing. With
the ’bus days restored all along the line and
the antique country cousin of that vehicle
bringing all produce to town per bullock
express, money, however plentiful the actual
counters might be. could buy very little;
and the striker would find that the
bottom had fallen out of his world while he
was cheerfully hoping to dictate terms of
peace to a public consisting mostly of him-
self. The real task for Labor, then, is to
think out some better mode of settling indus-
trial disputes than the calling out of the
superannuated ’bus.' All Australia, and the
State of N. S. Wales as much as any other
part, is capable of tremendous productive-
ness. Wealth beyond all that we have yet
dreamt of can be won for the community if
every citizen does his full share of the win-
ning ; but an idle State is in worse case
than an individual citizen put of work, be-
cause it eats up its reserves more rapidly.'
In order to gain its demands—and that it
can gain them is beyond all argument—
Labor must be labor. The moment it be-
comes idleness it loses as much ground in a
week as it can make up in many months.
The ’bus. dragged out from its dust and
cobwebs, is the clear indication of that. ’Bus-
time means a return to a poorer and less
productive past. From ’bus-time to boot-
time is a short and painful journey; and
boot-time, when every producing "citizen
might carry his own cauliflower to
market, would be a hungry time for
everybody. So the ’bus stands for Labor’s
present and altogether futile way; and Aus-
tralia’s hope lies in the possibility of the
union strength being linked to a little seri-
ous thinking. Cutting off your own nose to
spite your face is a mild and humorous
occupation compared with the general strike
in which the might of unionism goes out to
destroy the very ground on which unionism
exists.
A BUSHMAN’S JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With the great European drama claiming
attention, many of the sid,:-shows have been
overlooked. A flagrant case in point is the
performance in German East Africa, which
has now run into its third year without a deci-
sion. This little lot of 384.000 square miles
has lone stood between Britain and her
dream of “One land from Lion’s Head to
Line.” That the Germans hold it. and
intend to do so to the bitter end. is not sur-
prising. It abounds in agricultural, animal,
mineral and forest products, the last-named,
which constitute the chief wealth of the terri-
tory. including rubber of finest quality,
copal, bark, fibre, teak and mahogany The
cultivation consists of coffee, cocoanut-palms
tobacco, cane-sugar, cotton, vanilla, sor-
ghum. ground-nuts, sesame, maize, beans
peas, bananas, yams, manico and hemp’
Hides, ivory, tortoise-shell, pearls, and large
numbers of sheep, goats and cattle, reared
on the plateaus, make up the animal produc-
tmn; while gold. coal. iron, graphite, copper,
salt, the topaz, moonstone, agate and plenti-
ful garnet constitute its mineral output.
The pre-war population numbered about
8,000,000, inclusive of 0000 whites, of whom
8 per cent, were British. The trade in 19p>
amounted to four millions sterling, and its
eight ports were entered by 80,000 tons of
shipping.
Including the two German battalions that
arrived here a few days before the declara-
tion of war (to open an exhibition!), and
those previously garrisoned or settled in th»
country, the enemy’s white army was far
stronger than had been expected, while the
Askaris (German native troops) were more
numerous, better disciplined and made 0 f
finer fighting stuff. Von Lettow. their
commander, knows his job and executes it
with the thoroughness and ruthlessness char-
acteristic of his kind. His manoeuvres in
response to our attack on the capital, when
he kept 4000 of our men busy for some
months on a bluff, gave us a sample of his
skill : on taking the town from three strategi-
cal points, naval-aided, we discovered that
the defence had been entrusted to a
skeleton army (which, by the way. escaped),
while the main forces w T ere strengthening
positions elsewhere. The remains of the
Governor’s palace, from which he exhibited
the Red Cross flag when using it as a forti-
fied. wire-entangled stronghold, and the
steamer Tabora, now lying aground in the
harbor, bear witness to other qualities. The
vessel, posing as a hospital ship, displayed
the Geneva Convention Cross, though
on one side only; in reality she was
employed as a munition factory. One
of his earliest allies was the busy bee.
which irate little stinger, let loose on us
iu swarms as we advanced, played the mis-
chief with our horses and men. Another was
the dope, issued freely to his troops in
attack. A third, and most important, accord-
ing to captured prisoners, is the use of a
powerful serum, which staves off malaria.
Certain it is that his third-year campaigners
are healthy compared with our own troops
but a few months in the country.
From the outset most of the fighting was
in dense tropical forest, where the tracks are
few, narrow and difficult to follow. Know-
ing this the German adopted the human-
carrier system of transport, each white man
and Askari having a certain number of un-
trained natives to handle his pack on the
march. We plugged aw.y with motor-
transport. etc . which got. bogged, broken up.
or lost in the bush maze as often as it
reached its rendezvous. As a result we were
cursed with a poor commissariat. To fur-
ther embarrass us the enemy disguised them-
selves and their equipment with tropical
vegetation—a ruse which often baffled our
airmen, and led us into many a death-trap.
Not unnaturally, our Intelligence Depart-
ment knew little of the country and less of
German and the local native tongue. Still,
Smuts made good. He soon rounded the
enemy up and would have had him for keeps
but for the late arrival of a column, which
left an opening that the German was not
slow to make use of. Smuts, after packing
the responsible general back to England, re-
sumed business to such good purpose that he
soon had his adversary again boxed up. this
time in the Refugi Valley, the unhealthiest
spot in a none-too-healthy country, short of
food and ammunition. And then, to our dis-
may. he was called to Britain for the
Imperial Conference.
Acting on report more than advice the
Government next decided to withdraw the
white troops and replace them with colored
regiments. These. London argued, could hold
the enemy as well and stand the trying cli-
mate better. With their advent came the
carrier system, so long in abeyance. The
Boer generals returned home, leaving Aider-
shot and Sandhurst in control. Then trouble
set in with a vengeance. The new' native
troops, drawn from all quarters, sickened
and died so rapidly that many of the white
regiments were retained. The colored man.
generally speaking, does not thrive w r ell out-
side his own back yard, though climatic con-
ditions he similar; and, again, although he
can stand any amount of pain from a visible
wound, he soon goes under to an internal
complaint such as malaria or black-water
fever. As fighters, with a few' exceptions,
our friends w'ere not in it with the Askari
fighting on his own ground. The exceptions
include oue or two Indian regiments, and
notably the Nigerians. The latter had
already brought the Kamerun campaign to
a successful issue on behalf of the Allies.
V hen these seasoned fighters “mix it” with
the Askaris there is something doing. At
close quarters they discard the rifle as too
genteel, and use the machete, a knife origi-
nally issued for bush-clearing. At first the
authorities had to bring them to book for
taking no prisoners. In the next attack,
when their officers were blotted out by sni-
P ( rs. _ Johnny Niger took the objective
“pozzie” on his own initiative, with a bag
of two hundred prisoners. Three of these
w ere taken up by the head spokesman to an
officer as evidence that the authorities had
ueen guilty of libel in saving they gave no
quarter.
But the troops were not all Johnny
Nigers. And had they been, under the slack
supervision and disorganised base-w’ork of
the time, they could not have kept the enemy
intact in the Valley. Yon Lettow, ever on
the alert, soon broke through to a coastal
port, at the same time as a German steamer
evaded our blockade and landed a cargo of
stores and munitions, including a number of
4.2 howitzers—a plain indication that the
German is in communication, by wireless or
other means, with Berlin and' the outside
world. By this time the Government had
begun asking questions re our inertia, to
which our commander replied that no
material action could take place until the
rainy season had passed. Meanwhile we
plugged away fever-stricken and often for
days on end without proper food. Some of
us, recovering from illness or wounds down
in the capital, looked as surprised on seeing
German male civilians following their usual
business of hotel proprietor, banker, electric-
works manager, etc., at full wages or profit,
as we w r ere disappointed on beholding the
vast army of red tabs in the town. We also
heaped many curses on, their heads when we
saw the huge pile of stores at the fiase that
should have been at the front. But what
roused us out of cots and made us swung
crutches with emphasis w’as a manifesto foi"
bidding liquor to be sold in the town, OE


brought ashore from shipping, the following
rider being affixed :
This order does not apply to liquors supplied for
officers’ messes.
The “rainy season" excuse lasted for a
while; but when the campaign bill began to
soar to dizzy heights, with nothing but a
huge casualty-list to show for it. and when it
became known that Vox Lettow had taken
advantage of the inertia to garner in further
supplies by invading foreign territory,
Smuts was asked how it was that the Ger-
man could travel over hundreds of miles of
country while we could hardly move a mile.
His answer was brief and to the point:
u You hare the wrong men in command!”
Whereupon Sandhurst and Aldershot
packed their numerous valises and departed.
Boer-General Van Deventer returned to
stop the rot. and the now thoroughly scared
red tabs of the old regime got busy.
\ an Deventer had shown great ability as
Chief-of-Staff to Smuts. He is a hustler
who knows the country—and the enemy. His
first move was a visit to each front. His
second was to cut the enemy off from all
salt supplies—at present his great weak-
ness. Incidentally, it is interesting to note
that Von Lettow has faced British arms
before. He figured conspicuously in the Ger-
man commando that fought against us in the
Boer War. Rut there is no friendship
between Van and Vox. This, however, is
purely a personal matter.
All hands are pleased with the change.
Now. under the new direction, we look for-
ward to a speedy conclusion of what bids
fair to be, proportionately, one of the costli-
est campaigns in the costly world war. Some
idea of what our little trouble runs into in
hard cash may be gathered from the fact
that we have over 200,000 native carriers at
Is. ahead per diem, outside of fighting men,
with more dropping in daily.
When Smuts told the British Government
that the wrong men were in command, he
might well have added also that the majority
of men in the field were in the same class.
A bushman is the best fighting man in bush
country. A healthy percentage of Australia’s
troops are used to the bush, and would revel
in such warfare, as compared with trench
life. Malaria would not have thinned their
ranks as quickly nor as severely as the
French winter has done. The objective
Avould have been nearer home, and more
economical, convenient and safer for trans-
port. etc. Further, an Australian army in
this theatre would have been en evidence to
maintain Australia’s direct enthusiasm, and
that alone is worthy of consideration.
As things are, young English townies,
inured to the Northern winter, but lost in
bush-trekking, are bound south for these
tropical regions, while our bushmen (who
wonder what’s up if they don’t see the sun)
pass north in transports, wondering who is
responsible for all the superfluous use of
ship’s tonnage, and why some wisehead can’t
give a bushman a bushman’s billet when one
is going.
DAR ES SALAAM, 13/6/’l7.
H.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Phewsion Imitates Labor and Leaves
it to the Kid.
The Federal Budget produced by Bigjohn
Forrest last week ended up with the cus-
tomary commonplace moan about the war;
but the rest of the tale seemed to be that
of a man who had been thanking his gods
that the war was not over and that Parlia-
ment still had an excuse for dodging
horrible business of looking at the finances
with both eyes. Bigjohn simply took up
a vast mass of figures, juggled with it for
a few minutes, and then, putting all his
weight behind the dreary load, pitched it into
next year. This is probably what Phewsion
calls ‘‘sound finance.” Heaven only knows
what it will be called when the Common-
wealth has to get under the load ! Mean-
time this “National” Government is exposed
as just as great a financial shirker as can
or ever could be found in any of the States.
The essence of Bigjohn’s story is that he
will have a revenue from ordinary sources of
£35,181,656. By utilising the “surplus”
handed on from the previous year of
£2.102.177 and bringing to account
£90,746.478 of loan money, he will be able
to stagger along with £128,030,311, and at
the finish apparently be owing J. Bull about
£30,000,000 for army maintenance. Inci-
dental features are that out of borrowings for
war purposes £2,850.000 is to be abstracted
to keep the mice out of the w'heat and
£2,000,000 to “settle returned soldiers on the
land” —all of which is just plain financial
filibustering. It is claimed in the state-
ment that £13.109.351 will be devoted to
war expenditure out of ordinary revenue.
It would be more honest for the Common-
wealth to explain that not one single bean
of the actual cost of war has been paid
that this 13 millions is merely the year’s
charge for interest on the unliquidated bill,
payment of pensions and a grant towards
repatriation. Since the war started pay-
ments under these headings from Revenue
have amounted to £25.000.000. To call this
“war expenditure” is to misuse words. Even
if the assertion were true it would mean
that of every 20s. spent on the war up to
the end of the current year the people of
Australia had provided Is. 9d. and shuffled
the rest on to the kid. The increase of
interest has been from £4,820.926 to
£7.689,940. The Phewsion seems to have met
this bv the expedient of reducing works ex-
penditure from revenue by £3,1U(J.000. Then
with the other hand it raises £2.742,000 for
works by a special loan. By raising
£1.000.000 by taxing war-time profits, or
some of them, and levying a tax of doubtful
legality on “unenlisted eligibles.” and cut-
ting down the sinking-fund payments,
enough is secured to defray the additional
charge for pensions and provide a grant
towards repatriation. This is all a shame-
less “stall.” The Commonwealth is payipg
neither for the war nor for works nor for
putting the mice on a short diet, and it is
leaving pensions and repatriation suspended
on a hair, T.iko the Budget of previous
Treasurers, this one of Big.tohn’s virtually
says: “God help us, but we can get along
for a bit this way!” With this stu-
pendous bumping-up of the public debt, every
postponement of the taxation which should
be levied to keep the nation solvent means,
however, a further piling up of difficulties
lor both people and Governments.
♦
The Non-residential Cocky and Land
Purchase.
In Victoria last week the Peacock Govern-
ment produced a Bill dealing with the settle-
ment of returned soldiers. It transpired that
the Ministry proposed to abolish, so far as
soldier-settlers are concerned, clause 69 of
the Closer Settlement Act requiring residence
for eight mouthy of the year. Further, that
of the 9865 men who had returned to Vic-
toria from the Front 181 had been settled on
land at a cost of £132,658, and that part of
the rent payable by these settlers would be
supplied by the general body of taxpayers. In
addition and to go on with, the Government
proposed to spend £2,250,000 on land pur-
chase and in making advances to the set-
tlers. If no other criticism could be levelled
against the Bill, it stands damned by the
removal of the usual provision for occupa-
tion by residence. No high-falutin’ about
“the debt we owe to our gallant boys” can
get us away from the fact that unless occu-
pation of land acquired by the State for
close settlement is insisted upon, the door is
opened wide to the grossest abuse. This has
been established in practice everywhere the
experiment has been tried. Without occupa-
tion—that is, if a man can become a tenant
of Crown land and yet live in a city or else-
where —the whole purpose of schemes of
close settlement is turned upside-down and
the properties become merely areas to be
trafficked with. A soldier will take up a
selection under the scheme of repatriation
for the purpose either of farming the land or
of selling out to the highest bidder. If it is
for the latter purpose, the State is merely
encouraging a fraud op itself. If the idea
of settlement is in the mind of the selector,
there is not even a shadow of hardship in
making occupation the test of sincerity. The
idea of encouraging the land-shark industry
should be kept at arm’s-length. The Peacock
scheme is open to the. additional objection
that it stands upon the basis of resumption.
The theory of this thing is wrong from
beginning to end, and if for the peopling of
Australian lands the country has to depend
on re-buying Australia, the working popula-
tion can look forward to being reduced to
beggary. The expenditure of millions on
land purchase invariably results in the forc-
ing up of values against both buyer and
future occupant. The more the State spends
the less land it can get in return for a given
amount. The Government that goes out into
the market with a hatful of cash buying land
at present values is doing a wicked thing.
These values are absurdly inflated. To turn
them into national debt and plaster the pub-
lic with the mortgage would be an example
of either recklessness or flagrant dishonesty.
Does Peacock or the Federal Government,
which is taking a share of responsibility in
this business, imagine that land values can
escape heavy taxation—that when the com-
munity feels the full pressure of the burden
which is in the making, the demand for such
taxation will not be insistent and unanswer-
able? A substantial reduction of the capi-
tal value of Australian lands, both town and
country, is then inevitable. The drop is only
being postponed because the State and Fed-
eral Parliaments are dodging the entire
question of public finance, and are terrified
to think about it. The device of buying out
land-owners with good coin to make room on
the earth for other people was never a more
dangerous thing for the public to let politi-
cians play with than it is now.
«.
One Big Union.
The One Big Union idea has again come to
the front with a loud noise; and its pro-
moters seem to regard the trouble and dis-
organisation caused by a dozen unions get-
ting out on strike as its best advt. Unques-
tionably there would be points about a single
union, as opposed to a mob, if its aim w T as
to prevent and not encourage its members
jabbing knives into themselves. By drawing
all the toilers of a State or the Common-
wealth into a single organisation it might
be more clearly seen that in downing tools
the big affair was going out against itself
and making war on its own bread-and-butter
and prospects. But the idea doesn’t seem to
hit its advocates that way. The suggestion
is rather that if anybody anywhere suffers
so much as a pin-prick in the course of
earning his wages, the whole country should
be brought to a dead-end and nobody allowed
to do anything at all until the person with
the alleged grievance was satisfied that he
had got the right sort of deal. As some
people are very touchy, and pin-pricks will
occur even where the industrial machinery
is oiled with good intentions, it follows that
the One Big Union would be almost always
on strike. If, however, the all-embracing
organisation could be persuaded to regard
the strike as its worst and last weapon, to
be used only when circumstances seemed
desperate, there might be great advantage to
the individual workers and the community
in the larger unionism. Such a body could
enforce agreements and compel its more rest-
less and aggressive sections to exercise a
little patience and go on working till evils
were rectified ; and it could find very effec-
tive punishments for individuals whose
violence endangered the common good. By
one simple rule rigidly observed it could
command public confidence: that no strike
would be tolerated until a secret ballot of
members had been taken. At present strik-
ing works like a plague in the ranks of
unionism. Let one strike for any cause,
however trivial, and there is never any tell-
ing how many others may be involved within
a w T eek. A moment’s anger in a single
workshop may mean starvation to thousands
of people who are dragged into unwilling
idleness. The One Big Union, with steady
democratic insistence on the secret ballot,
could make striking just as difficult as it
ought to be. while it made other means of
obtaining redress easier. So it all boils
down to whether Big Unionism. as
opposed to little unionism, means a decent
thing for labor or a bitter attempt to destroy
the community. If the former, it might be
a cure for most evils ; if the latter it will
pile more evils on this country—which
means on the workers of the country.
Why Talk?
One leader who rose up to advise a body of
strikers in Sydney last week had imagina-
tion. “Say nothing,” he said. “Stand by
with folded arms, and you will beat the boss
every time.” The Bulletin has a suspicion
that this counsel of perfection may yet be
turned into a plank in the Labor platform,
and a vast strike about something which no
one has explained will be launched for the
purpose of achieving reforms which no one
was prepared to mention until the whole of
the men’s demands had been acceded to by
Judge Edmunds, on the understanding that
they would be supplied to the Court within
three years. This would be a bright incident
of the march towards human emancipation
and give the S. M. Herald an opportunity
to deplore the absence of misstatement and
intimidation from industrial upheavals.
There would also be a chance for the Argus
to print something of this kind :
LABOR’S DISGRACEFUL SILENCE.
Unionists Persist in Keeping Quiet.
Every member of the unions left work at 10 o’clock
yesterday morning, and all attempts to discover the
reason have proved unavailing. Deputations have
waited upon the Ministry urging it to use the law
to make the union executives explain what the
strike is about. Ministers, however, were unable
to do more than say that they had requested Mr.
Percy Brookfield not to make a speech, and if this
failed to provoke Mr. Brookfield to address the
nation it was difficult to know what could be done.
Repeated attempts to come to an understanding
with the executive of the unions have failed, their
attitude being one of blank irresponsiveness. Thou-
sands of strikers were seen yesterday with folded
arms calmly surveying the commercial desolation
around them, but beyond smiling confidently to one
another they remained unmoved.
A rumor reached the Minister for Labor that the
strike was the result of the recent increase in the
price of rabbits from 275. 6d. to 745. a pair, but
it is impossible to say whether it is so or not.
There is a hope that the police may return' to
duty next week, one member of the force having
telegraphed to the Federal Government to know if
anything he had omitted to say could be used in
evidence against him. In the meantime the city
is in the grip of an insolent Silence, but the
Employers’ Federation is determined to resist the
demands that may be made to the last.
As the task of establishing the Industrial
Commonwealth by striking over matters
susceptible of argument, and then frantically
starting an argument about something else,
looks likely to be tedious, the absolutely
dumb, impassive strike might be tried as a
more scientific conception. Confronted by a
strike that was mute, unintelligible and with-
out known address, Fat might give up the
struggle to hang on to a stake in the blessed
country and bolt in disgust, leaving the In-
dustrial Commonwealth—whatever it may be
—in complete possession of the field.
«
“Unemployment” was bound to be heard
about sooner or later in a country where for
many years public policy has been directed
towards the maintenance of a fictitious pro-
sperity and the community has been kept
busy on loans. Nothing else could indeed be
looked for. There are unemployed in Mel-
bourne. There are a considerable number in
Sydney. There will certainly be more later
on, and they all will be the direct result of
the proceedings of the Australian politician,
who with glozing phrases on his tongue about
“developing our great natural resources”
has doped the population with borrowed
millions while the development of national
industry was let go hang. What about our
resources now? Are they not developed
enough after an outlay for which no parallel
can be found on this weary old earth? Are
our Parliaments unable still to see the truth
about this horrible fraud, or are they so
demoralised as to still pin their faith in the
everlasting goodness of a philanthropic
Cohen? Years and years ago this paper
urged the Federal Government to recognise
what was happening, and apply itself to
the business of making Australia a self-sup-
porting country. Nothing has been done ex-
cept to drift on, piling up debts. Is the
Parliament going to continue skulking thus
until the crack of doom ? Employment in Aus-
tralia hinges on the proper use of Australian
land and the production in Australia of the
common requirements of the people. Unless
this obvious fact is made the rule of Parlia-
mentary effort, and such maniacal schemes
as borrowing “60 millions” to get a job for
Billjim are put aside, we shall simply rush
from bad to worse.
- *. —
Curzon’s assurance, given to the British
House of Lords, that “the democratisation of
hereditary titles is one of the best safeguards
of public life” calls for our respectful atten-
tion. Public life in Australia, as elsewhere,
requires plenty of safeguards, especially in the
neighborhood of the Treasury; and if hand-
ing out patents of nobility will assist the
Auditor-General to keep the raiders at bay,
this paper can see no reason why the democ-
racy should allow an unreasoning prejudice
against calling a two-legged animal a Duke
or a Baronet to stand in the way of reform.
The splendid improvement produced in the
public life of Maoriland, for instance, by
permitting Joe Ward to write “Bart.” after
his name should be an encouragement to
Australian Governments to start a local De-
partment of Titles. All members of Legisla-
tive Councils could be created Barons to
begin with ; members of elective assemblies,
Viscounts; Lord Mayors, aldermen, appli-
cants for Government billets and chairmen
of patriotic committees. Dukes. This would
give about 7645 safeguards as a permanent
foundation, and on this a superstructure of
greater reliability might be reared from year
to year. By the time a few barrowloads of
titles had been distributed prior to every
general election, and various strike leaders,
profiteers and bookmakers had been seized
and had decorations forced upon them, a
new dignity would begin to show itself in the
conduct of our national affairs, and every-
one would get a grip of the finer principles
of citizenship—either because he was an
Earl or lived in mortal fear of being made a
Bart, instead. Announcements that the
Duke of Brisket and the Marquis of Lams-
fry were acting as delegates for the slaugh-
termen during a strike would be so obviously
a guarantee that the assassins had a genuine
grievance that public opinion would insist
upon somebody or other giving them all they
asked for. And if the newspapers started to
denounce Sir Mick Wattobill for going
slow with the rabbit cart, the whole of their
order could be depended upon to deal
promptly with Mick in the public interest
and nip a very gross scandal in the bud.
“Karee” : I have just been discharged after
a good run of two years and ten months'
active service. I have an absolutely clean
sheet, and my discharge is marked “Good."
Ho is that of cashiered officers and other
undesirables returned under escort. Is that
a fair thing to those who play the game 7
There is a practical side to it, for the dis-
charge that rotters get gives them the chance
of elbowing dinkum men out of a billet.
Why, I know a chap cashiered for drunken-
ness, and worse, who is now swanking it on
transport duty! A cashiered Australian
officer should be reduced to the ranks, as in
other allied armies—unless his fault is
cowardice, when, as with them, he should
get gaol instead. Other innovations we might
borrow from the French —no compulsory
saluting while on active service; no batmen
to officers under captain-adjutant rank on
active service; officers below that rank to be
on the same rating as their men re blankets,
rations and luggage, and to mess with them.
Also, reinforcement n.c.o.’s should revert to
the ranks on joining their units. An n.c.o.
gives up a star to get away with an early
lot, and it’s pretty hard to see his hopes of
regaining his rank blasted owing to vacan-
cies being filled by late recruities. A good
plan would be to appoint transport officers
whose sole duty would be, to bring reinforce-
ments to their parental unit, and return for
more, thus giving the men who have served
in the ranks a better chance of promotion.
-■ ♦
“Goon Australian": The Victorian agency
here in San Francisco was closed last year,
and now the N. S. Wales office has been shut.
In face of the rapid growth of trade between
the U.S.A. and Australasia (for Maoriland
does a big business with America) it is a
great pity the Federal Government did not
take over the X. 8. Wales agency. Before
many years elapse Australia will have to be
represented everywhere by her own consuls,
because more and more Australians will go
out after foreign trade. Our representa-
tives should not be civil servants nor sales-
men. An Australian consul in San Fran-
cisco ought to be a discreet, presentable man,
educated and polished, who would be able to
represent his country on public occasions,
while in private he could answer inquiries
about trade and traders. His outfit should
not be gum blocks, eucalyptus oil, lumps of
ore and bundles of wool. He should wear
expensive clothes, have an Australian stenog-
rapher, a box of good green cigars and two
bottles of Australian whisky in his desk.
And he ought not to wear a frock-coat and
brown boots.
+. .
The severe comment of London Daily
News on a message sent by Edward Car-
son to Sydney Orangemen suggests that
England is waking up & the fact that the
advantages of having a loyal disloyalist in
the inner councils of the nation are some-
what mixed. Apparently because he had
proved that armed treason, or the prepara-
tion for it, could go unpunished if it had the
support of antique Toryism, this man was
made a Minister of the Cro.wn. His appoint-
ment to office in a national war Cabinet
should have sobered him and prevailed on
him to drop party in the general interest.
But Carson isn’t a man of that sort. At
the very moment when the war looked
blackest, when the Ministry to which he
belonged was pretending to use the last
expedient for an Irish settlement, and when
an Irish settlement might mean most as a
guarantee of English good faith in the eyes
of other nations, Carson comes out not only
as a man who places party above patriotism,
but as one who clearly has no purpose in hold-
ing public office except to further party aims.
The Ministry to which he belongs has decided
that the Irish Convention must settle Irish
affairs; and though it doesn’t look at present
as if it could do it, that is no reason why
one member of that Ministry should yeil
across the world that he still stays where he
was in his opposition to reform, and that as
far as he is concerned the Cabinet’s attitude
to the Convention is one of pure time-serving
fake. Carson as a private citizen has the
same right to get hanged for treason as
Roger Casement; but Carson as a chief
servant of the State ought to be forced to
play fair. His action has endangered more
than the Irish Convention. America is
listening; and Ireland counts for a lot in
America. France is listening; and France
may easily begin to wonder if she is shedding
her blood for a fair tiling. Italy is listen-
ing ; and they have some rugged ideas about
just dealing there also. Russia is listen-
ing ; and Russia, according to Henderson,
was badly distrusting Britain’s good faith
only last week.
“Quidam" : Often comparative trifles pro-
voke the fiercest indignation, and it would be
hard to find anything done by the politicians
of Australia which has caused more caustic
comment outback than the commandeering
of one-third of the price of rabbit-skins.
Bushies who took no interest in politics
before, barring a transitory outbreak at. elec-
tion time, now talk murderously about the
“robbers.” If the skin-trapper were singled
out for 33 per cent. tax. plus the tax of the
ordinary citizen, because he was supposedly
an uninfluential person who couldn’t hit
back, the idea was a most mistaken one. The
wrath of many large property-owners is
whole-souled; indeed, not anybody of any
political persuasion can be found to defend
this bit of price-fixing at something admit-
tedly under market price. It is unanimously
declared to be simple bushranging.


WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A OEPOBIT OF
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 10
£875 O
6 will purchase a Certificate for
6
O
O
O
0 »» „
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
SUth March, 1917
• Commonwealth Bank ok Ausirai.ia
% 592
tf-'
2Ss
-
'T'liW
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
Head Office : Comer Pitt
King Streets, SYDNEY.
'pin?'! 1 ’ A 2 1 l!® 1 L Street ' >lelbou rne. 113 Eagle Street. Brisbane.
ins urances effected.
SYDNEY H. CAR? ckLaf EMENTS - EQUITABLE DEALING.
G. HOWARD POPE. General Manager.
Is there a Face-saving Manoeuvre
Going On?
What is behind the proceedings in relation
to the Stockholm Conference is as clear as
the interior of a coal-cellar in the middle of
the night. Back of all the words on the
subject and the splitting of hairs about a
“consultative” and a “mandatory” confer-
ence, there seems to be a suggestion that the
various European Governments are mana 1 -
uvring for an opportunity to get. a bit closer
to one another. The fact that Arthur
Henderson. while still a member of the
British Ministry, surreptitiously visited
I’aris in company with Ramsay Macdonald.
gives color to this, and the circumstances of
his subsequent resignation don’t allay the
suspicion. Further, the story that this
Stockholm Conference is necessary in order
that "Russia may understand the war aims
of the Allies” is just as obvious a piece of
bluff as the further allegation that the Confer-
ence would “impress on the German Socialists
a knowledge of the Allies’ aims and assist in
the democratisation of Germany.” If the
Russians do not know what they are fight-
ing for they are certainly going to be made
no wiser by having a discussion with some-
one from Berlin. Nor is it within the
bounds of the conceivable that the German
Government would sanction the departure
of delegates to Stockholm for the purpose of
returning with more arguments in favor of
democracy. If there was any hope that
such a conference as is proposed would
result in the ghastly business of war being
lifted out of the hands of the old brigade
and transferred to the people of Europe, the
world would be taking a great step forward.
But in the present temper of Germany—
whatever the possibilities be elsewhere
—such a hope is only a vain dream.
At its best such a conference could be no
more than a futility : at its worst it might
easily be the cauiH of fearful mischief.
Meanwhile the process of bleeding goes cheer-
fully on. with the certainty that if the fight
>s to a finish the end is far away. The
Russian tragedy looks worse each week.
Even if they seldom pray for rain there-
abouts, the time seems about ripe for some-
one to exhort Providence to send the snows
earlier than usual. General Frost would
hold the German up and give Ivan’s brains
a chance to recover their second wind, so to
speak.
“Q.P.” : A fine, straight biff at the slack-
ness in the N. S. Wales railway service comes
from the men’s own journal. The Railway
and Tramway Budget of August 1 (the
day before the strike ) is responsible for this:
If bread is the staff of life, what is the life of
some of the staff ? One long loaf.
On another page:—
In the Board of Commissioners as constituted at
present it is our great privilege to have men who
themselves have risen by dint of perseverance and
merit from the lowest rung of the departmental
ladder, and whose warmest sympathies are with
the staff in the matter of education, and it is by
their keen support and hearty co-operation that the
Council of the Railway and Tramway Institute is
able to cater for the welfare of employees throughout
the service.
Then the whistle blew; and the same Com-
missioners instantly became persons with no
bowels of compassion—monsters whose one
thought was to get the last ounce out of
workmen for whose well-being they cared a
nothing !
Some of Adelaide is still so easily shocked.
In the big procession on Australia Day, ’Var-
sity students had a mock laundry, on which
were notices undertaking to deal with
“Blundell’s Bloomers” and “Vaughan’s Dirty
Combinations.” And the groans in the paper
next morning were heart-rending.
A mate has been found for the Vic. rogue
and vagabond who, charged with various
sins of omission and commission, protested in
court: “The idea of worrying over things
like that, and this war on!” His mate is
Alec Peacock, who broke out into this:
“Some people have been troubling about
freights and fares and other twopenny-half-
penny questions, while our boys are engaged
in a fight for the right to live!”
“Bion”: There is shocking waste on the
medical side of the Defence Department, too.
Here is a sample. At a hospital down south
the O.C. arrives by motor at about 9 a.m.
The guard—usually a number of home-ser-
vice men—is marched to the main gate, thei’e
to wait and salute the pill-marshal as he
whirs in. If he is punctual it is not so
bad; but, if he has had a puncture or is
delayed for a drink, hours in the aggregate
of these men’s time are wasted; and every
hour wasted means about eighteenpence more
debt for the kid to pay.
“I will ask the Premier whether there is
any truth in the rumor that, although the
Ministry has been in power for three weeks,
not one Minister has taken a trip to Mel-
bourne, and not a single land-deal has been
made.” (Laughter.) Moseley, in the S. Aus.
Assembly.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEIv.
Criterion “Grumpy”
ller Majesty's “So Long, Letty”
Palace “Look Who’s Here”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Red Widow”
Royal “Daddy Long Legs”
King’s “Much Ado about Nothing”
Princess’s “Seven Days’ Leave”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s ©e Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
■*-
A quaint old cuss is Grumpy.
He wears a costume frumpy;
And when he gets the hump he
Is rather uinpty-umpy ;
With temper quick and jumpy
He doesn’t care a dump, he
Flies out in rages. Thump! he
Assaults his valet-chump—he
Is such a nice old Grumpy!
Horace Hodges and T. Wigney Percyval
built a comedy upon the firm foundation of
an irascible old gentleman with the lnental
acuteness of a Sherlock Holmes and the
heart of a child. Upon that character Cyril
Maude eagerly fastened; and dowering
Grumpy with all the excellencies and all the
defects of the character actor, Maude made
of his victim not the gentle old invalid —a
study in the neutral colors of pathos and
charm —that the authors probably intended,
but a forceful personality dominating the
stage every moment he is on it, making
unpleasant noises w’hen he eats or sleeps,
talking all the time, stamping about the
room, assaulting everybody in sight, and
stressing the note of octogenarian vitality
rather than that of the winning childishness
of a lovely old age. This Grumpy is really
a terrible old-man-of-the-sea, making life a
burden for all his servants and relations.
But Cyril Maude, being a great character
actor, gets every theatrical ounce of power
and appeal from the excellent character part;
and beneath the too obvious exaggerations
the audience glimpses many subtleties and a
complete identification of the actor with the
part. The too-few touches of pathos are
most delicately done: a worse actor would
have had to emphasise them. Certainly in
Cyril Maude’s experienced hands the part of
Grumpy is an actor’s triumph.
The play written around this character
hardly matters. It deals w T ith the theft of a
valuable diamond, and introduces a villain, a
Jewish receiver of stolen goods, a love affair
and an original clue to the thief. Grumpy
had been a celebrated criminal lawyer, and
the loss of the diamond enables him to bring
triumphantly into use again his famous de-
tective methods. But the authors haven’t
bothered about dramatic consistency. When
Grumpy’s favorite nephew is lying uncon-
scious and possibly dying in another room,
Grumpy permits himself to make his jokes
and chuckle his grotesque chuckle without
a thought for the lad. Even the nice girl who,
more or less, loves him, forgets him most
of the time. For all these two care, Grumpy’s
“GRUMPY” at
Sydney Criterion.
Cyril Maude as
Grumpy.
nephew might die
—as long as
Grumpy gets the
diamond and the
laughter of his
audience. The
authors have sacri-
ficed him to make
an actor’s holiday.
Nothing matters as
long as Grumpy is
nuking humorous
noises.
Doubtless the
Criterion, where
the first Sydney
performance of this
play was given last
Saturday, will be
filled every night
of the season, de-
spite the strike.
This commentator
is, however, among
those who would
like to see the
bright, young and
promising actor in another part before
delivering final judgment on his work.
“High Jinks,” resurrected for Dot Brun-
ton’s farewell season, is now finishing up its
week’s revival at Sydney Majesty’s. Doro-
thy looks as if she could "do with a good rest.
She has been working too hard for too long.
The great feature of the present show is
the spirited dancing of Connie Ediss and
Robert Greig. When the massive Greig, who
plays the American lumber king, jolts him-
self into the air and skips and bounces
towards the exit, the house roars as if a
land mine had sent one of the round towers
of Ireland bounding across country. And
Connie’s exertions are equally impressive.
The sedate C. H. Workman once more does
his best as the lovesick young explorer who
brings home the wonderful High Jinks per-
fume to settle everybody’s troubles but his
own. When his young heart is wounded it
never seems to occur to him to inhale some
of his own dope. William Greene rages
politely as Rabelais, the duelling stage
Frenchman; Field Fisher, as Dr. Thorne,
flies from his Gallic fury shedding stage
money; Frith prances in a natural, tender-
footed way as the aged boiled owl, Colonel
Slaughter; Maude Fane makes a few dainty
appearances as a supposed French dancer;
and Marie Eaton (Mrs. Thorne) acts well,
but is extraordinarily loud and shrill in a
ragtime burlesque of “Faust” that brings
down the house but deafens it first. "So
Long, Letty,” finishes the season and com-
pletes Dorothy B.’s Australian farewell with
a revival week, beginning Saturday.
The “Look Who’s Here” advts. cheerfully
invite the public to walk to Sydney Palace,
and The Bulletin assures the walking
classes that the James-Waller show is as
well worth tramping to as any service in
town.
The Grand Opera House (Sydney) has
rung down the curtain and bolted its doors
until the evening trams roll by again and the
theatre trains whistle. It will probably be
“Fair and Warmer” when business resumes.
It’s hai’d luck for Billie Seaton that she
should arrive at Sydney Tivoli with a polite
song-and-piano turn almost before the echoes
of Ada Reeve have ceased. Billie is pretty
and pleasant, but her U-nited States ac-cent
is too strong for a this-side-of-the-Pacific
“LOOK WHO'S HERE.”
at Sydney Palace.
Sydney James sings a
song.
drawing - room
show. She’s all
right, though,
when she puts
on a brief
“Buster Brown”
kid’s costume
and lisps some-
thing simple
about spelling
“M i s s issippi,”
while the con-
gregation a d-
mires her figure.
Ray TTaynor,
her accompanist,
has a crisp
touch and a
trick of leaning
over the opened
grand piano
and using the
strings as a
harp. J. C.
Mack’s potted
panto, “Mother
Goose” 45
minutes of it —-
is due on Satur-
day, and Alvin
and Williams, a
singing pair,
drift in during
the week. Gwen Lewis and Wilson and
Willard are the other noticeable people of the
bill.
Sydney screenings this week:—
Crystal Palace : “The Haunting Shadow,” a
World film-version of an old stage play. “Forget-
Me-Not,” which records the startling things that
happened when Corsican revenge pursued Corsican
beauty through Parisian gaieties.
Lyceum: “The Paws of the Bear,” an up-to-date
secret-service thriller; and “The Magnificent Mud-
dler,” a ’Murkan Wild West mix-up. (Not to be
confused with the melo-comedy of a somewhat simi-
lar title now playing in Melbourne, with a domi-
nating personality in the title rfile.)
Hoyt’s: A film of Oscar Wilde’s comedy-drama,
“Lady Windermere’s Fan”; for the rest, a varied
and entertaining programme.
“Seven Days’ Leave,” at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, is a wild and wondrous drama of the
blighted schemes of two rabid German spies
disguised as philanthropic Belgian refugees.
Nellie Ferguson and Vivian Edwards play
the evil aliens, and they would no doubt have
got away with Allan Wilkie and his artillery
secret in a submarine but for his having
met them when he was a sick prisoner in
Germany. He meets them again at the
vicarage during liis seven days’ leave from
the Front, and his vivid memory of their
fiendish conduct is reflected on the back wall
of the dining-room while he relates the inci-
dent to Colonel Styan. Owing to this illus-
trated recollection Wilkie conspires to thwart
the spies, to which end he pretends to get
drunk, whereby his engagement to Lady
Mary is temporarily suspended. His crude
assumption of inebriety leads somehow to the
discovery that the Hun spy-lady is wearing
swimming bloomers beneath her cloak ; corn-
sequent]y Lady Mary (Miss Hunter-Watts
is requested, by ’phone, to come along i n her
bathing-suit and swim out to a lurking sub
marine for the purpose of cutting a wire
that signals it to come to the surface. Vfter
which the pirate craft is sunk by sonic
destroyers that Colonel Styan has laid i,'
waiting, and the British Empire breathes
again.
As far as this sort of plot is capable of
being naturalised the artists aforementioned
do it very well; also the scene painter and
the mechanist assist to make things thrilling
at the price. The simply frivolous section
Melbourne Tivoli.
The tall man who
married the widow.
ot the money-making
concern is constructed
with a view to per-
suading the British
public that dukes’
sons, cooks’ sons and
the offspring of mil-
lionaires are in the
habit of hob-nobbing
together when on
seven days’ leave
and that the vicar’s
daughter has no eves
for Pte. Lord Arthur
(a doosid good sort'
of chappie) when his
superior officer, the
ex-boots of the estab-
lishment, is giggling
beside her on a garden
seat. Landor, Dore,
Varna, Mabel Russell.
Elwyn Harvey and
others make a neat
job of the idyllicised
comic relief, while
Walter Hunt wears
the sallow hue of an
ill-fated lover who is
debarred by palpita-
tion of the kidneys
from following a military career. “Seven
Days’ Leave” should adequately fill the
Princess’s bill.
The latest Jo Smith play, which obtained
two consecutive performances at Melbourne
Auditorium last week, raises the question
whether slackers and their womenkind are
open to listen to a purely Australian recruit-
ing appeal though they refuse a hearing to
dramatic war sermons from abroad. If local
color and sentiment in a play could bear
down all the foi’ces of antipathy to its theme,
Jo Smith’s “Reveille” w r ould be a fair cornmer
cial proposition. The amateur perfoi-mance is
sufficient evidence of the probability— not to
say certainty—of a forcible representation
by a well-selected company of pros. The
author took no risk of dismal failure. His
play runs on the safe lines of old domestic
drama as i-egards plot, the Australian inter-
est is sustained, and the war theme brings
the story up to date. It is just the old tale
of a hero put in a false position by his desire
to shield his girl’s father from an awful dis-
closure, and when the disclosure is found to
be not awful at all the play ends happily.
Comedy relief has some snap in it, and the
serious lines have literary pretensions. In
short, not half a bad play.
But Jo Smith’s amateur co. gives it far less
than its value in stage effect. Jo himself
is easy and natural within his limitations,
and S. H. Henry and Claude Thomas are
well suited, as amateurs, to their light comedy
parts. Also Miss Wilson plays a minor
emotional part with the right feeling. But
the ornamental heroine and the rest of the
little crowd are never convincing. They
act hardly well enough even to suggest how
very much more might be made of their parts.
The performance will improve a lot, of
cdurse, if it is repeated for war-charity pur-
poses as often as the same author’s “Before
the Dawn” ; and if the Hughes Government
were to suddenly put slackers out of their
misery by deciding on a genuine Win-the-War
policy, it might even expect to get a full-
sized theatrical representation.
The brief Nihilistic career of Florence
Young at Melbourne Majesty’s continues to
break down at the point where Roberts cries
“Long live the Czar,” whilst the bombs in-
tended for the destruction of a bygone roy-
alty are still dropped casually into an ice
bucket, by the leading funny man. Repeti-
tion has rubbed some of the rough edges off
“The Red Widow,” but has not brought any
new interest into the story or given a popular
turn to the rather brassy music. Nor has
there been any change in the attitude of
the painted audience that is alleged to
clamor for encores fx-om Minnie Love when
she takes the stage. The auditorium of the
Alcazar Music Hall, partly secluded from
yiew by curtains, is about as poor a scenic
illusion as any previous fraud of the sort.
The worst of a crowded dress-circle on can-
vas is the awful fascination it exercises over
flesh and blood observers. They can't tear
their eyes from the fixed and silent throng.
Turns may come and turns may go, but the
Alcazar audience stops there for evei'. With
such an unconvincing background to her dark


6^
rOORD 8c SON
tO«OON. ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
A NEW AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
FOR
,vgri VTIXG COLD-AIR CHAMBERS AM) REFRIGERATORS.
COVERING BOILERS, HOT WATER ANI) ST RAM PIPES.
PACKING UNDER HEAVY MACHINERY, &c., &e.
HAIR FELT
MADE IN SHEETS, 34in. x 20in. x Jin. BALES EACH 50 SHEETS.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS. SHIP CHANDLERS.
FI LL PARTICULARS AND NAME OF NEAREST WHOLESALE HOUSE
Obtainable from MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
384 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
7a
iminiimiimmiimirrimnmmirmmimmuiminr;
PROVEN MATERIALS USED
Summer draws near. Cool shirts will be
required. Light, porous textures, good fast
dyes, and very neat effects are introduced by
t’eapeC Crepe Shirts. The materials used are
the same as used last Summer, held over and
made up only this month. Buyers therefore get
RELIABLE Crepe—now very scarce. White
grounds, with neat stripes of Blue or Black, set
close or quarter-inch apart; also Blue and
Black Checks. Soft or stiff' cuffs.
Ready to wear 6/6
We paii postage. Please state linen-collar size.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 3tl George Street, SYDNEY’
political designs, it is hard for Florence
Toung to look like the head of a conspiracy
to kill the Czar. It must be even harder for
the brisk, straightforward actress to preserve
her centre of gravity when her chief accom-
plice, I illiers Arnold, is rushing around, like
a pantomime gnome in white linen pyjamas,
wondering what sort of character Phil Smith
is supposed to think him.
“Daddy Long Legs” is the crumpets and
maple sugar of dramatic fare; therefore two
matinees a week are not too many for the
current attraction at Melbourne Royal. Some
parts of Daddy are just what children love,
and the rest of the
proceedings is adored
by all right-thinking
mothers, aunts and
cousins. Only at
matinees can the
beatific Waldron feel
that all the house is
wholly in sympathy
with him. A large
infusion of mere man
in the audience cor-
rupts the atmosphere
and imparts to the
soul of the sinless
hero a sort of sensa-
tion of “rats” inside,
as it were. But
there’s nothing uncer-
tain, coy and hard
to please in the atti-
tude of womankind
towards this box of
toffee. The sight of
a happy matinee
audience munching
the sentiment o f
“Daddy Long Legs”
sets the writer wish-
ing that he could be
popped into the Well
of Truth, like Sim-
plicitas, and come out
of it a girl.
Melbourne Tivoli.
Joe Reed, harp and
mouth-organ
specialist.
“Peg o’ My Heart” is doing a last fare-
well week at Melbourne King’s, with Im-
mortal William waiting on the mat. A
revival of Shakspeare is always a matter
of some interest (the Bard being a person
whom all managements take seriously on the
rare occasions when they take him at all),
and the forthcoming revival promises to be
a rather gorgeous show as well as a literary
drama. Bailey and Grant are putting up
“Much Ado About Nothing.” with lan
Maclaren and Margaret Sutcliffe in the Bene-
dick and Beatrice parts; and Arthur
Greenaway, Kay Souper, George Bryant and
others who have long been on terms of
familiarity with Shakspeare aforesaid will
help to make the ado on Saturday next.
From this paper’s oldest and baldest show-
critic :
Going to one of the “All Australian” nights
at Melbourne Auditorium I found the Y.M.C.A.
management more careful to provide vegetables
for the performers than an attractive pro-
gramme for the patrons. Every woman got
“floral tributes” and every man was rewarded with a
laurel wreath for his gratuitous services. The per-
formance easily beat the record as regards tokens of
triumph, yet the latter, or dramatic, half was in-
sufferably dull. A playlet by a Mrs. Davidson, acted
by members of her “National Theatre Company,” was
a warning to local art patrons not to come again.
“The Benefit” —a one-act comedy in two parts —
proved to be a mere flow of small talk concerning
another amateur playlet in which most of the charac-
ters in Mrs. Davidson’s playlet were supposed to be
engaged. Hie feebleness of the dialogue was accen-
tuated by incidental references to the torture that
Bernard Shaw inflicts on his audiences, and the
malignant opposition of local newspapers and critics
to Australian plays. Also, the acting, with hardly
an exception, indicated a sad lack of talent in the
Australian National Theatre —wherever that may be.
The amateurishness of the whole business hurt me
because it was the worst of advts. for the art cause
that the Y.M.C.A. has at heart The musical items were
mostly interest it's; but seven girl soloists sang in
succession, after which two men sang pretty little
songs with sweet tenor voices. Some of the Aus-
tralian-made ballads deserved their inevitable
encores, and none were bad specimens of their con-
ventional kind. Percy and Lulu Prout, Florence
Hull and Mabel Down provide likable musical set-
tings for respectable lines —their own or somebody
e l se ’s —which is more than some non-Australian
song-makers do. And they got bright Australian
songstresses to interpret them. Bessie Martin, who
sang Florence Hulls “Spring” and “Winter, had
beautiful fresh young notes. The strongest item in
the instrumental-music section was Claude Haydon’s
trio for piano, violin and ’cello, played by himself
and two capable girl fiddlers. This had a touch of
distinction in its musieianlv appeal, quite as marked
as the appeal to what might be called vaudeville
sentimentality in Jessie Smith’s singing of two
ditties composed by herself. What the "I.M.C.A.
wants is a stern, unyielding selector of talent for its
all-Australian nights —somebody with a notion of
catering for the public by giving opportunity only
where encouragement is due.
Ruth Budd was prominent in the line-up
at Melbourne Tivoli on Saturday. She opens
with a conventional songandance, then whisks
into a dressing-room and is soon a flash of
white _ limbs suspended on rings hung from
the flies. It is a graceful turn, presented
with a pretty, unprofessional air. In musical
value the turn of Reynolds and White is
worth its weight in icecream to the current
programme; the feminine part of the dis-
turbance handles a violin better than her
chosen numbers warrant. Edna May Foster,
obviously from Amurka, is associated with
a passe baritone who unfolds himself from a
seat in the orchestra. The pair twang ugly
songs and patter together in a manner that
fills the writer with forebodings regarding
the future of the English language.
Charlie Chaplin, as “The Immigrant,” is
doubling the Melba and Britannia Theatres,
Melbourne, this week, and other popular film-
stars are trying to caulk the remaining
cracks in the programme. Louise Glaum, as
“The Sweetheart of the Doomed,” and
Muriel Ostriche, as “Sally in Our Alley,”
fill the available fissures at the Britannia.
William Farnum and Earle Williams plug
the seams in the Melba bill, the former in a
child-labor tragedy, “The Price of Silence.”
and the latter in a newspaper-detective thrill
called “Department 20.”
s;: * *
Lady Tree, Rutland Barrington and other
stage notables are bobbing about in the
current of “Still Waters Run Deep” at
Hoyt’s Melbourne shop this week. The piece
has all the requisites of an old-fashioned
melodrama, but the manners, the minuets
and the 18th-century raiment hardly make
the parts sinecures for the practised cast.
Miss Jackie Saunders is at large in the fol-
lowing five-reeler, “Sunny Jane.” She is
described as “an eccentric young girl with
an abnormal imagination,” which may be
accepted as another instance of the film-fakir
throwing the burden of his crime on to his
pretty accomplice.
The spirited “Australia in Action” pic-
tures at West’s have been thrilling Adelaide,
though returned soldiers ask how the shell-
strewn trees come to have leaves still on
them. Anyway, the camera has been there
or thereabouts, and secured a batch of good
pictures. Wondergraph responds with Mary
Pickford in kilts, and at the Royal “The
Honor System” shows vividly how one can
reform a criminal by making his prison life
a picnic. Maude ended his Royal season in
the same old drizzle of adulation. A second
look at “Grumpy” enables one to see what a
well-constructed piece it must have been
before the star worked it up to serve his
ends; but/ candor compels the admission that
the more he upsets the furniture, or throws
sugar about, the better audiences like it—
'■specially feminine audiences. At the Tivoli
George Cross is a Broth of a Boy ; but the
Anderson co. is switching off to Illyria, where
the “Beggar Maid” comes from. At the
Majestic Stiffy and Mo are collecting into
the’r last week each item that has gone best
in the other weeks; and the Queen’s holds
the strenuous and musical Jubilee Singers of
(mostly) dark skin.
Cabled that Capt. Rupert Owen Beit, of
the Royal Engineers, killed in action, was a
former resident of Sydney. So he was—as
a baby. Upon the death of his father, Henry
Beit, of the old engineering firm of James
Moir and Co., the child was sent to England
and did not return to Australia. When war
split the nations Beit was in Brazil bridge
building.
“Briner” : Our Jack’s come aft at last!
The British Government, having ordered
the construction of a large number of stan-
dardised cargo-steamers, the National Sea-
men’s Union seized the chance of centuries
to secure proper accommodation for the sail-
ors. It submitted plans to the Board of
Trade, which gave them judicious revision,
according to itp own lights, and submitted
them to the Government. Finally they
came to Lloyd George, who swept them
aside and made Jack’s arrangements far more
liberal than even the Seamen's Union had
advised. The sailors are not to be in the
forecastle but on the sacred poop, with
proper cubicles, a smoking-room and every
convenience. There will bo deafening roars
for rum down in D. Jones’s locker when the
news gets through.
A new sort of peace crank is busy in Vic-
toria. His name is Henry Lanyon, and he
is the headmaster of the State school at
Gisborne. Lanyon is an Esperantist, and is
trying to fix up a permanent world-peace
through the headquarters of the Esperanto
Association in England. So far, the British
concern has been singularly indifferent; but
Lanyon, not at all discomfited, is proceeding
to circularise President Wilson, the editor of
the Iquique INDEPENOIA, the King of Bongo
and others, employing cash provided by other
local peace-cranks. It is futile foolishness ;
still, they are doing less harm than those
patriots who make braggart war-speeches in
the intervals of making sinful war-profits.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Jwosp”: Correcting “Ivirribilli” (B.
26/7/T7). The Firm did not introduce W.
S. Percy. He was certainly engaged by
J.C.W. when a kid, but was at once passed
on to Tom Pollard as rather hopeless, and it
was with Pollard that Percy got his train-
ing and his introduction to Australian audi-
ences. Percy was tried in “Pirates of Pen-
zance,” and was'such a hopeless failure that
he was pushed back into the super class.
Then an accident—to Joe McShane, I think
—gave him his opportunity, and this time
he got home as the Pirate King in “Pen-
zance.” I always think, however, that one
of the world’s best clowns was lost when
Percy took to musical comedy. Clowning he
is built for, and by that business he wins
through.
On joining the Coast Artillery band at
Fort Totten (U.S.A.) as an oboe player,
Percy Grainger was entered up on the pay-
roll as a third-class musician.
“Harrison O.” : With that humility which
alone prevents me going on the stage I sug-
gested recently that, as “Grumpy,” Cyril
Maude proves himseif “a superlatively fine
mimic” rather than the Heaven-sent actor
his press-agent accuses him of being. I pro-
duced certain details of Maude's perform-
ance to justify the faith that is in me; but
“Ancient Prompter” (B. 2/8/T7). appalled
by my blasphemy, is content to mention (a)
the size of the audiences; (ft) that Maude’s
“Grumpy” has “been voted a superlatively
clever character impersonation by most dis-
cerning folk.” In reply to the first point it
need only be remarked that the theatre was
packed nightly for weeks when “The Fatal
Wedding” was first produced. As for those
unnamed “discerning folk”—well, the writer
is a person of world-famed discernment who
ARTHUR SHIRLEY, the Australian Movie
Star, whose beauty is adorning the screens
of America.
appends his moniker to a contrary opinion.
I said that I wanted to see Maude in an-
other part before hailing him as a great
actor. I’ve since seen him as Sir Peter
Teazle —and there is no hail going forth
from this quarter. He exploited the same
box of tricks that he used in “Grumpy,” and
as a “Sundry Shows” critic observed, gave
to the character “an air of comparative in-
significance.” But “Ancient Prompter” is
most amusing when he says: “Carpers like
•Harrison O.’ should be condemned to re-
turn to the old playgoing round of meretrici-
ous ’Murkan drama.” “Grumpy” certainly
is not American, but as an example of
mechanical theatrical claptrap it is on a
par with the average offering from the
U.S.A. “Ancient Prompter,” apparently,
regards it as High Art!
“C. 8.”: “Mallet” (B. 2/S/T7) is very
wrong. Henry Irving was the soul of
generosity and wore his pocket out in acts
of benevolence. He had a string of pen-
sioners on the theatre books and bought
annuities for many old actors. Even after
his failure, which was partly due to his
charitable donations, he gave a large sum
of money to a poor mummer to enable him
to get a son treated for consumption. The
storv of Irving and the cabman is not as
"Mallet” (B. 2/8/T7) told it. It was whilst
the boss was playing Shylock that a cabman
(to whom Irving had given the correct fare
for the journey) said, “If yeh play the Jew
as well in the theatre as yeh do ’ere ye’re
orl right!” To hang an accusation of mean-
ness upon that is absurd. Irving never was
and never could be mean. His memory is
revered amongst contemporary actors as
much for his benefactions as for his art.
“Stargazer” returns to his Ko-Ivos: —
Disagreeing almost in toto with “0.K.” on the
subject of Ko-Kos we have met (B. 2/8/’l7), and
likely to continue to do so cheerfully and for ever
if he has no further evidence to offer in proof of
his contention that Vernon’s Ko-Ko was wrong where
Workman’s is right, I must deny that any error of
judgment on my part is due to ignorance of the
book. Since my second glimpse of the “Mikado” I
have been able to lisp the numbers because the num-
bers came. If I am wrong the defect is entirely due
io intellectual incapacity, and if “0.K.” is right in
coldly and humorlessly dissecting Ko-Ko's character
and demanding absolute consistency to the written
word, I am wrong and have always absurdly mis-
understood Mr. Gilbert’s humor. It is my conten-
tion that the best Gilbertian effects are secured by
the employment of deliberate, extravagant and
wanton contrast between the man and his spoken
thought. Exactly because Vernon was a tall, tough,
sinister-looking Lord High Executioner his miserable
wail: “I never killed a cockroach....! can’t kill
anything!” was a shock of humor that impelled
laughter, where Workman’s squeak is consistent and
dull, and convulses no one. Let “0.K.” take any
conspicuous character in the Gilbert comics, and
subject it to the astonishing, Scottiah-mathematician’s
analysis applied in the case of Ko-Ivo, and he will
find the operas curiously revolutionised. Since
Katisha gurgles: “Oh, I am such a silly little
goose!” will “0.K.” ask to have the Mikado’s
daughter-in-law-elect played as a simpering spinster
in perfect sentimental accord with her attitude
throughout the narration of the sad story of the
“poor little chap” who plunged himself into the
billowy wave?
Irma Caron remembers Ko-Kos, too :
Although “0.K.” (B. 2/8/’l7) advises a „listrust
of one’s youthful impressions, mine are as yet rather
too fresh and vivid to be entirely untrustworthy. As
a child I was constantly before and behind the
scenes of every J.C.W. musical production, and
enjoyed the privilege of a personal acquaintance with
every member of the old Royal Comics. I have a
recollection of veteran Howard Vernon as Ko-Ko in
the “Mikado” which tallies in every detail with
“O.K.’s” description of his impersonation. Vernon
was, and probably is still, one of the most casual
artists imaginable. Lacking in sentiment, he pos-
sessed a sharp brain, a ready wit and ever-active
business capacity. Being a gifted quick-study, he
was apt to leave everything to the last minute, in-
cluding his stage toilet and make-up, often causing
the late Henry Bracy moments of agonised suspense.
Nevertheless, the old actor was always ready at the
right moment, and I have seen him hasten from his
dressing-loom at the very instant he was given his
cue —but seldom a minute before. Later is my re-
membrance of the late George Lauri in the part of
the executioner, during a Sydney season of the last
repertory company Leon Caron coached. Lauri was
of a nervous temperament, and, being also a con-
scientious worker, was particularly anxious to make
a success of this attempt at a G. and S. character
study. His Ko-Ko was decidedly sentimental, and his
rendering of the “Tit-Willow” song was so full of
pathos that it invariably caused my childish eyes to
shed tears of sympathy for the poor little bird whose
unrequited love drove him with despair to an un-
timely end. In other respects I should say his and
Workman's conceptions of the tailor-executioner were
very similar.
“Melb” : Died last week, Mrs. Gladstone,
oldest inhabitant of our Old Colonists’ Home,
aged 88. She started early and was Colum-
bine in the Christmas panto at Windsor
Theatre, London, as far back as ’54. Soon
after marrying E. Gladstone, a member of
the Lyceum Co. under Charles Mathews and
Madame Vestris, she —and he—decided to
come to Australia and arrived at Melbourne
in ’57. Both were humble members of the
profession, nevertheless they held on well in
the times of Brooke and Barry Sullivan. In
later years the widow was apt to be con-
founded with Mary Gladstone, an American
star. I don’t suppose she resented it. The
Gladstones had three children. One was
that Rev. G. Gladstone, Church of England
vicar of Nathalia (Vic.), who fell foul of
Bishop Armstrong and tried to carry on
independently. He died not long ago.
“B. J.” : Actor Godfrey Cass, who has been
doing his bit in the Big Brawl, is back again
in Melbourne, suffering from shell shock.
“Middle Blue”: “Norbell” (B. 26/7/T7)
omitted to give his own remarkable quick
study, which would take a lot of beating.
One Saturday morning in Brisbane he took
the part of the rector in “Hypocrites” (the
part runs to about half the play) at 10.30.
and he played it that night. Played it, I say.
(Continued on page 26.)
NOT GUILTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Caleb Mountebank appeared
As Hamlet at Jan Junk,
Some of those present rudely jeered
And voted Caleb “punk.”
Insulting epithets they threw,
Likewise a doubtful egg or two.
Then Caleb spoke them from the stage.
“Rogues, peasants, slaves,” cried he,
“Control your misdirected rage;
In hurling things at me
Crass ignorance do ybu betray—
It was not I who wrote the play !”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


GRACE DUNCAN, former actress, who
now offers to tell women of the most re-
markable complexion treatment known
TOUR COMPLEXION
MAKES OR MARS YOUR APPEARANCE
FRrr I will tell Every Reader of this Paper FREE
a I&IjIj how to Remove Every Blemish in a Few Days.
This great beauty marvel has instantly produced a sensation.
Stubborn cases have been cured that baffled physicians and beauty
specialists for years. You have never in all your life used or heard
of anything like it. Makes muddy complexions, red spots, pimples,
blackheads, freckles, eruptions, vanish almost like magic. No
cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster, bandage, mask, mas-
sage, diet or apparatus, nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter
whether or not your complexion is a "fright,” whether or not
your face is full of muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embar*
rasing pimples and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough
and “porey,” and you’ve tried most everything under the sun
to get rid of the blemishes. This wonderful treatment, in
just a few days, positively removes every blemish and beauti-
fies your skin in a marvellous way. You look years younger.
It gives the skin the bloom and tint of purity of a freshly
blown rose. In a few days you can be the subject of admira-
tion by all. no matter what your acre or condition of health.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN ARE CAST ASIDE. There is nothing to wear, nothing
to take internally. Your face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your fondest dreams.
All this I will absolutely prove to you before your own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very pleasant to use. No change in your mode of
living necessary. A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper I will give full details of
this really astounding treatment. Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny stamps
and your name and address, and I will give you full details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, (Suite 5 2 ), 178 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
To meet the
.*
demand
TOOHEYS
have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England.
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
HER TROUBLE.
EDITH: “The shirt should come to the boot-
tops.”
EDNA: “I quite agree with you, my dear.
But I can’t get a pair high enough.”
“Matahata” discusses tripe-and-onions:—
In England, nowadays, they are coming to value
“common” food as it never was valued before. With
delicacies and rarities something of a drug, because
people won’t pay for them, and the simple bacon and
egg, the “cheap” tripe, and the baked potato gone
up to near whitebait and asparagus prices, folks are
beginning to understand that, widely speaking, food
is just food, and that dainties are only, in ordinary-
times, valued because they are rare —not because
they are better than anything else. Turtle soup
isn’t really nicer than Scotch broth, only dearer;
forced fruit and vegetables are certainly not so good
to eat as those in season; sweetbread entrees are
just one kind of tripe that is no better than the
other vulgar tripe-and-onion kind ; nothing that flies
is really nicer than young, stuffed, roasted chicken;
and all the dainties and rarities of the world are
not equal to a (once) common egg.
Elaborate cookery, too, is “out” in England; and
may' it never rise from its grave! The sober truth
is that healthy IfTnnan beings of gll classes like such
things as Irish stews, real fire-disn pies, spotted-dog
suet puddings, fried liver and bacon, onions, cheese
and such-like strong, naturally-flavored things, much
more than canapes and petites, bouchees and
supremes, and all the rest —only they are afraid to
say so, because it sounds as if their people hadn't
had the money to buy expensive eats. The semi-
invalid type, that lives in offices or houses and
takes its exercise in the stalls of a theatre, some-
times really does like the bits-done-up style of
cookery. So do the patients who sit on the balconies
of hospitals, for the matter of that. But they and
the house-and-office cat shouldn’t set the style.
Will the war make Australian people drink tea
out of teacups, instead of No. 8 thimbles? It may
do a lot, but its reforms probably won’t stretch so
far. In Australia, a hot and (notoriously) a thirsty
country, people are still forced at all times after
8 a.m. to drink out of the cups made in wet
and chilly England for the sort of folks who hurry
round in the rain and call on 16 people (whom they
hate) before six o’clock, finds nine of them in, and
accept tea nine separate times. Why cannot Aus-
tralia not only make its own teacups, but use them?
Most of us don’t spend our days calling on .. .teen
people we hate, and drinking the tea the said people
wish would poison us, from . . .teen tiny cups, in
weather that would not waken thirst in a stranded
jellyfish. Why should we pretend we do?
“Copper’s Nark”: The quaint mare's-nest
of which Opposition-leader John Storey
announced the discovery to an astonished
Leg. Assembly—the drilling of the Sydney
police with firearms at the Bourke-street
barracks, presumably to discourage strikers
—recalls the little-known fact that there is
a rifle and bayonet available for every John
Hop in the metropolis. The armory at the
depot contains some hundreds of the ancient
Henry rifle, and the wavy bayonet which goes
with that archaic but very serviceable
weapon. The Henry was the immediate pre-
decessor of the Martini-Henry, and fires the
same .450 ammunition, with its heavy, essen-
tially man-stopping leaden bullet. The writer
saw more than one wound, some of them
fatal, that had been inflicted by this pon-
derous projectile in the S’African scrimmage
—-and it certainly does make a mess of bone
and tissue. Should Mr. Hop ever be turned
loose with it there is little doubt that he
will be quite unpleasant to someone. Also,
in the same arsenal, there is a unique and
interesting collection of all manner of fire-
arms—even to flint-locks and blunderbusses
—which have been taken by the police from
the less successful knights of the road since
the earliest days of bushranging. A selection
from the armory, together with the contents
of the small museum at Police Headquarters
in Phillip-street, would make a side-show at
any fund-raising corroboree that would easily
pay for the trouble of asking Inspector-Gen-
eral Jim Mitchell for the loan of it.
“Karee : Just a year ago our bunch of
newchums were dumped down in France in
a large paddock between several heavy Eng-
lish batteries. We’d never been under such
heavy shelling before and there was no
cover; and such is human nature
that when it started raining iron-
rations we ducked under the tar-
paulins pegged near the waggons
for night shelter, and felt safer.
Presently gas got on our nerves;
the alarm kept going off. Several
times that night we put our masks
on needlessly, and got nosefuls of
the chemicals. At last we all took
them off and one man kept watch
on some loose mules, which, we
thought, would be affected in time
to allow us to prepare. \Ye were
resting beautifully when our sen-
try let off a yell and shoved his
mask on. We sat up and gazed,
horror-struck, on an agonised lady-
mule whose legs were at an angle
of 60 degrees and whose tail sig-
nalled lugubriously, while she
emitted groans of dissent. We tore
for our helmets and were fumbling
them on when we observed that the other
mules were peacefully eating the French
farmer’s oats. Yessir! a simple case of
gripes!
One lesson that protrudes from the story
of the mined Mongolia is that the Board of
Trade lifeboat regulations require dry-dock-
ing. The luckless steamer’s boats were sup-
plied with everything the law requires—
water, biscuits and so on—but, as it turned
out, the thing that was most wanted wasn’t
there. Many of the passengers and crew
were injured by the explosion and escaping
steam, and when these casualties were taken
off there were no first-aid appliances to re-
lieve their torture. The best that could be
done was to swathe their hurts in bandages
improvised from the underclothing of passen-
gers. And besides having medicine-chests
all round, some at least of the boats should
have engine power. A few big liners already
carry engined boats, but the Mongolia didn’t;
if she had done so more than one poor strug
gling chap who couldn’t be picked up in
time by the slow, crowded oared boats might
have been saved instead of becoming dinner
for a shark.
THE RISKS OK WAR.
“What d’yer say if we yet married? I’m bound to be anted, and yon may fast as well
have a pension.”
“ That's all right, but —but suppose you come back!"
“T. 0.1.” : There is talk of moving Callan
Park Mental Hospital from its present posi-
tion to a less crowded area, with a view to
providing sites for soldiers’ cottages. The
property was originally Garryowen, the
home in the early ’forties of the Brenan
family. John Ryan Brenan was an attor-
ney and the coroner who committed the
notorious Knatchbull for trial for the mur-
der of Mrs. Jamieson. He was elected for
Cumberland in the first Parliament under
Responsible Government, but was unseated
in a couple of months. Old Garryowen
house is a part—or was until recently—of
the Mental Hospital. On the property
being offered for sale it was knocked down
for about £12,000 to W. P. Woolcott. a well-
known agent, who was congratulated on his
purchase. Then he astonished the crowd
by announcing that he had bought for the
Premier, Henry l’arkes, who wanted the
site for Government purposes. The old par-
liamentarian had kept so close a mouth that
the vendors hadn’t even an inkling that the
Government wanted a property. If they
had got a suspicion of it the State cow
would have been bailed up for a lot more
than £12,000.
* * * * (
This is what the Health Officer reported :
Twenty-eight pigs at liberty and quantities of
bones strewn about near the piggery. At the killing
house the tools—two saws and a chopper—were cov-
ered with flesh tissue, bone, blood and grease \ the
floor near the walls was covered with hard-caked
blood, etc., and the walls were blood-bespattered.
The earth surface outside the doors was slimy with
coagulated blood. A concrete pit contained ‘ blood-
stained, dirty water and in the yard there was a
quantity of manure, old bags, tins‘and other rubbish
strewn about.
The conductor of the Irish opera pleaded
guilty before a Casino (N.S.W.) magistrate,
and was fined —how T much do you think? £1
In the next campaign to secure pure food we
must give chief attention to the magistrates
who impose such atrocious fines. The public
depends upon these people for protection.
\\ hen they fail—in the most important job
they can be put to—there is only one safe
course: to relieve them of the responsibility.
The most disappointed man in Australia
last week-end was Captain Charles Spinks,
in charge of the salvage operations of the
Cumberland. When he took over the job of
refloating her from the coast near Gabo the
betting was that she would never get clear.
It was a tremendous contract, and it was
sheer hard luck that a blow should have
raised a sea that punched awaj- the packing
over the hole in the vessel just after she had
started on her slow crawl to Twofold Bay.
Spinks has two big salvage jobs to his
credit —one, when, as master of the Talune.
he picked up the drifting Perthshire in the
Tasman Sea and safely towed her to Sydney;
the other, when he extracted the Norwegian
tramp Tliode Fagelund from among the rocks
at Port Hacking, where she had gone ashore
in a fog. With the loss of the Cumberland
probably goes all hope of tracing the cause
of the explosions that blew the plates out
of her side.
ROOM FOR DOUBT.
HE: "W ell. there's one thing yon can't
accuse me of. and that is, of ever having
had cold feet."
SHE : "I don't know. It's hard to tell. You
so seldom go to bed without your boots
on!"
FLOWER-MEMORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At first it was a chill time, *
And then the weather warmed,
And all at once the still-time
With joyous singers swarmed;
And one he was a brown bee,
And one he was a bird;
And never such a singing host
In all the land was heard 1
At first it was a bare time,
A time of winter-thrall;
And then it was a rare time
For honey-eaters all ;
And one he was a gill-bird,
And one he was a bee;
And never such a banqueting
Did sylvan rover see!
At first it was a dour time,
With all the bushes bare ;
And then it was a flower-time,
With blossoms everywhere;
And one it had a red hue.
And one was virgin gold ;
And never such a lavishment
Did eye of man behold !
Oh, where are they, the brave 1 ovs,
The gallant and the young,
To whom the Springtime gave joys,
Like pearls and rubies strung?
Oh, some are sore and sleepless,
And some shall never wake —
Come, wear the golden wattle,
And love it for their sake!
‘Neath cloudless skies and clear suns,
And moons of silver-glow.
Because of them, our dear ones,
We shall not thoughtless go;
For those who took the grim road
With glad and buoyant feet,
Come, wear the pink boronia,
To keep their memory sweet!
x.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


10(6
buys
this"
Hat.
THE “DUNCLIFFE” HAT
The "Duncliffe” Hat at 10/6 (as illustrated) is equally suitable
for town or country wear. It is made in all sizes, from
superior fur felt that will render service in all weathers The
brim is 2*4 inches wide and has a cut edge. The shades to
choose from are: Brown, Fawn, and Light or Dark Grey, with
black band or band to tone.
SEND FOR YOUR SIZE ON APPROVAL. WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba.
MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, in-
digestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.” For
the cause of all this distress lies in a torpid
liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Caiifig”—as a physic. Don’t think you arc
drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely as
a robust man. It is a most harmless, effec-
tive stomach, liver and bowel regulator and
tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a botile of “Califig"
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Cal’fig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes. Is. lhl. and Is. Od. [G
“Ould Rigimint”: The most consistent
non-conformist to I.W.W. doctrines in my
experience is the shadoof worker of culti-
vated Egypt. His business is to lift water
from the great irrigation canals where these
are below field-level and spill it into the mil-
lions of small drains which run through the
most irrigated country in the world. He
flourishes particularly along the Bar Yusuf
Canal, which bounds the western side of
Lower Egyptian cultivation for many miles.
Ilis shadoof is a weird contraption of lever,
balance and bucket, which sometimes has to
be repeated in tiers where the canal banks
are high. The shadoofer’s hours are any-
thing from 15 to 20 per d~ He starts
work any time the water is high enough in
the canal, which is regulated by the irriga-
tion people at Assouan. This may be the
middle of the night or any old time the vil-
lage policeman blows the warning whistle.
For this he gets 3f piastres (81d.) per day.
and if his class is described as “immoral and
disorderly,” no doubt he has his excuses.
“Ringbolt” : Though I have no liking for
Ram-.Tam-Sammee, most of the twaddle
talked about the lascar’s uselessness in emer-
gency is due to the fact that, like the Goa-
men of the Mongolia, all kinds of coffee-
colored wastrels are misnamed “lascars.”
The genuine lascar, as I know him, is no
more liable to funk or foolishness than the
average white man. Given a good lead, you
can do anything in reason with this dis-
colored person. Smashed-up once by a
cyclone in the Bay of Bengal, we were taken
off by a couple of boats from a I’, and O.
liner through a sea that wouldn’t have given
us the ghost of a chance but for the courage
and coolness of the lascar’s boat’s-crew.
Many another old shellback will back me
when I say that in a sea catastrophe I’d a
lot sooner have a lascar beside me than a
loafing longshore white man.
“Coppertop”: At least five Melbourne
policemen are under suspicion, suspension or
sentence in connection with charges ranging
from shop-breaking to false pretences. The
fact lends color to the assertion that in one
suburb you can escape prosecution for failure
to vaccinate your child by spending half a
sovereign wisely. Many anti-vaccina-
tionists prefer to be fined in court
IN THE BRAVE DAYS OF OLD.
HE: “Do you remember the time when you
fell out of the apple-tree and I caught
yon?”
SHE: “Ah! so well. And you, the day you
fell into the pond and I pulled you out
by your long yellow curls?”
rather than comply with the law, and as the
fine runs from 20s. to 405., a ten-bob tip
shows a profit up to 30s. One case has been
before South Melbourne Court. Constable
Eugene Thomas McGrath, having ascertained
that baby Ohina had not been vaccinated,
left with its parent a piece of blue paper,
which she took for a summons, and said he
would plead for her in court. Later he told
her she had been fined £l, took the money,
and gave her a receipt. Inquiries showed
that no summons had been issued. In pal-
liation. McGrath’s lawyer advanced previous
good character, a refund of the pound, and
the statement that his client had enlisted.
So he was let go to serve processes on the
Hun.
“Condenser”: Let me into the controversy
as to whether the coast between Sydney and
Melbourne is adequately “wirelessed,” w r ith
the remark that, though there is a “barren
patch” which affects wireless operations in
the vicinity of Gabo Island, it is not always
present. I have exchanged traffic with Syd-
A DOUBLE-HEADER.
“You only married me because you knew I
had a thousand a year.”
“How conceited you are, dear! When I
married you I thought you had a
thousand a month!”
ney in broad daylight (about noon) when
within sight of Gabo, and 1 have also cleared
messages to Melbourne when within 20 miles
of the island on the Vic. side. The gap,
therefore, is very small, and anything un-
toward happening to a vessel whilst steam-
ing over the break could be seen by the
lighthouse-keeper. Flinders Island station,
b.v the way, was not designed for the purpose
of filling the gap, but for the purpose
of maintaining daylight communication
between Melbourne and Hobart. And it
has rendered fine service.
“Ux”: Probably all Australian police-
court records were broken the other day at
Derby (Tas.) when a male infant of six
was solemnly charged with unlawfully
assaulting and beating a girl-baby of the
same years. The tiny “accused” was
stood upon a chair, so that he could
be seen, and the aggrieved one was
nursed by her mother. Two Jaypees,
two, counsel, one registrar and two
policemen all assisted in the farce,
which occupied more than two hours.
The Court brought down the curtain
by dismissing the case. And surely
that will be the last one of the sort
ever heard in Tasmania. On the
mainland —-in all parts of it as far
as I know —an infant of seven years
and under is doli incapaw; and from
seven to sixteen or so the infant
against whom a charge is made is, in
most enlightened States, dealt with
in a special Children’s Court, where
'the gaping crowd is not admitted.
“Trallwm”: There are times when one
wants to take off one's hat to that unique
thing, British Justice —even the brand of it
handed out often so haphazardly in small
suburban courts. In this case the culprit
was a young girl, and a very bad young girl.
She had lied, stolen, obtained goods and tried
to obtain money by false pretences, pawned
the proceeds of her thefts in false names,
implicated several innocent people, and
generally shattered the Decalogue. The
police-inspector proved the case up to the
hilt, the girl pleaded guilty, and there was
every sign of at least three years coming to
her. In probably any other country on
earth she would have got it—-and have been
henceforth lost and done for. But here all
hands combined to save her —four “city
fathers,” a fatherly old sub-inspector, an
equally fatherly sergeant of police, a youth-
ful C.P.S., a young lawyer and a little dark-
eyed five-foot-nothing of feminine vitality
called an “adjutant.” With the experts
searching for loopholes in the law, the nine
turned the court into a sort of debating club
—they even whispered to the reporters—and
it all ended with the little adjutant march-
ing her “save” off with nothing attached to
her name more smirching than “two years’
probation.” And nobody looked so glad as
the witnesses for the prosecution.
"Kopai”: Most of us could work our-
selves up to a pitch of some sort of valor
when in the heat and action of conflict, but
what must be the courage of the man who
can joke locked up in
the bowels of a sunken
submarine, with Death
looming slowly through
the dissipating oxygen of
the craft! Yet men do,
as this true story tells.
The teller was a little
ship’s engineer who casu-
ally wandered into our
suburban club-room. We
were drinking his health
and that of his arm of
the service. “They call
us the silent navy.” he
said ; “so I won’t make a
speech. I’ll give you a
little incident instead.
Tells you the sort of
chaps we work with An
accident had befallen a
submarine, so we got her
up, buried the crew, over-
hauled her, and put a
fresh crew in. We were
giving her a re-trial when,
in trying to return to the
surface, it was found the
‘clocks’ w r ould not work.
We went to the bottom.
The commander tried all
means to overcome the
trouble, still the ‘clocks’
would not go. The chief
wrote up the log so that
everything would be clear
when we were found. ‘l’m
sorry, boys,’ he said, ‘but
I’m afraid it’s all up with
us!’ Then it was that a
big A.B. spoke for the first time. 1—* — it
fill!’ he said, in mock disgust, ‘that’s pretty
strong. I’d arranged to take my girl to the
op’ra to-night!’ ”
Billjim at it again. Randwick Hospital
this time. The usual tri-weekly picture
show was on, and after the patients had
seen heroes rewarded and villains foiled for
an hour or so, a Voice issued from the dark
(the Sergt.-Major’s) : "Is Private Blank
there?” The answer came in a drawl:
“Here.” “Major Dash wants you at once.”
“Oh, all right, show him in.”
* * * *
. "Padjud”: “Condenser” B. 26/</T7) is
inaccurate when he states that the problem of
wireless “screening” has been solved. Dotted
all over the world are stations which, on
account of unexplained screening, are prac-
tically useless for the purpose for which
they were intended. For in-
stance, Rockhampton station
was designed for daylight work-
ing to ships in the vicinity. To
say that it is a failure is put-
ting it mildly. The country
thereabouts, particularly on the
seaward side, is as flat as a
bank- counter; consequently
screening was not thought pos-
sible. Can “Condenser” explain
it? It is not that the station
is not a good one. Twice when
pounding across the Bight I
have heard its opening signal to
Brisbane station at 6 a.m. That
is an airline of 1800 miles—a
d e cent performance. “Con-
denser” expresses a better
opinion of Melbourne station
than I hold. In my opinion it
would be hard to justify the
erection of the station at that
city. By reason of its inland,
screened position it is, during
the daylight hours, both deaf
and dumb to ships east of Wil-
son’s Promontory and any dis-
tance west of Otway. There-
fore, as a link in the daylight
chain it is little better than a
joke. The stations at Flinders
and King islands are much
better placed for working ships
along the Victorian coast. A
small station about the Promon-
tory, for relaying purposes,
would have given much better
service than the elaborate affair
at Melbourne.
“Murkah”: Who would have thought the
bulloeky and the wireless operator had any-
thing in common? Yet they have. “Pick s
bulloeky who heard his own bell amongst the
jangle of scores (B. 5/7/T7). was perform-
ing precisely the same operation as a wire-
less operator reading his own message
through a maze of signals. The confused
roar of signals that goes on ceaselessly in
crowded areas, such as the English Channel
and outside New York harbor, gives wireless
men frequenting those sections plenty of
practice at it. Some can read through a
“jamb” what another operator could not pick
a word out of. The slightest difference in
tone, or any other peculiarity, is suttieient
to keep an average good operator on the
right track. Mistakes are few. Oddly
enough a good musical ear is no aid what-
ever. One of the best operators of my
acquaintance doesn’t know "The Wearin’ o’
the Green” from “Everybody Works but
Father.” Is this also true of the bulloeky
and his “jamb”?
“J.F.H.” (London) : Germany and Eng-
land are at war. but the arts of both nations
decline to be drawn into the controversy.
Wagner continues to be sung before packed
and applauding audiences here, and Shaks-
peare is nightly presented in the Berlin
theatres to equally large and appreciative
crowds. The German Shakspeare Society
has been holding its annual meeting in spite
of the din and confusion all around. Its
president, Professor Brandi, of the Univer-
sity of Berlin, incidentally observed :
Although the whole Anglo-Saxon world rises up
in fratricide against the German tribes, our people,
while defending themselves to the uttermost, will
not cease to do homage to the greatness of the
poet of “Hamlet” and “Lear,” who belongs to all
mankind.
A number of members in the fighting zone
sent to the annual meeting tributes in prose
and verse. The president, in view of these
testimonies to “Kultur,” regards as ridicu-
lous the attempts to represent the Germans
as an “uncivilised horde.” He turns the
blind eye to the fact that Germans may be
simultaneously great admirers of Shaks-
peare and ruthless barbarians in Belgium, in
France and on the high seas. It all raises
anew the question ‘whether poetry and art
have any bearing upon civilisation —at any
rate, the civilisation that means sobriety,
sanity and peace.
* * * *
The Charity Organisation Society of Vic.
has at last erupted about “the demoralising
influences which are at work amongst the
dependants of Australian soldiers.” The
C.O.S. is right in the midst of things. If it
doesn't know what is happening to the vari-
ous funds, in the way of overlapping, imposi-
tion and general sloshing-around of cash,
nobody does. Wherefore there should be a
great silence while the C.O.S. puts the case:
The ameliorative work which has grown up since
the war began is being carried on in the same
unorganised manner that has long characterised the
philanthropy of the community.
Organisation is the thing, of course, and it
seems preposterous that, after three years of
warfare, every State shouldn’t yet have been
able to decide on a business-like method of
disbursing the whole of its patriotic collec-
tions.
THE SNIPER.
BROWN : “They soy she has ruined three
husbands.”
SMITH: “Good heaven! I didn't know she
she tens even married.”
BROWN : “She isn't—they weren’t hers.”
TOUCHED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He read about eight hundred dead
Upon the field of battle spread
In motley squalor, grey and red.
“My God, it’s terrible!” said he....
“My love, another cup of tea."
They talked of towns torn up like rags,
Guns belching death from riven crags,
And little girls like haunted hags....
Said she: “I’m furious at the way
That woman did my hair to-day.”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


THE DANGEROUS YEAR.
BELLONA (in the fourth year of marriage): “And do you still love me as you did before we married?"


WINNING THE WAR.
The Commonwealth has handed over to the States during the war a total of £31.134 000. including £3,000,000 that was borrowed for war. £7.500.000 cadged in Loudon and £20,634,000 appropriated from the notes fund. This year £4,850.000 more is to be taken
for the States out of war loan money, and the Commonwealth hopes to get a further £6,840,000 for them out of poor old J. Bull. — “Political Point.”
“Another round, boys; and nut it on the slate, John.”


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealei
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester
England. It's All-British, and economical in use.
By Special Appointment to His Excellency Lord Islington, ex-Governor of New Zealand
Nurse Ellen Everett, Medical and Electrical Masseuse, writes her opinion to Clements Tonic:-
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“As a Specialist in Neurasthenia and Nerve Work I find Clements Tonic
one of my best nerve foods to recommend to my patients d
Wellington Electrical and Medical Institute ,
Ait ken Street , Wellington , /.v/ .
79/7.
Yours truly,
( Nurse )
For the relief of Indigestion, Loss of Sleep, Anaemia, Constipation, Sick Headache, Brain-fag and Debility get i
All Chemists and Stores sell it throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
l to-day.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
PERSONALS
ITEMS
It was agreed lately that the first Yic-
torian to enlist in the A.I.F. was Bugler
AA r . 11. Groves, of Geelong; now it is fairly
clear that the first Vie. naval recruity was
Engineer-midshipman 11. A. Willian, of Wil-
liamstown. A member of the Citizen Naval
Forces, he served his engineering ’prentice-
ship at Newport Railway Workshops, passed
as engineer-middy on August 5, 1914, signed
on for service the same day, and left for
New Guinea on August 17. He has now’
passed as engineer sub-Jieutenan-t, and will
assume that rank on his' vessel in the North
Sea. He spent his 20th birthday in Rabaul,
his 21st in Rangoon and his 22nd on board
ship.
J. M. FOWLER, Westralian M.H.R.
You can’t keep them away. Even in
Galicia there are several Billjims helping
Commander O. Locker-Lampson in his gal-
lant fight to protect the Russian rear with a
squadron of armored motor-cars. One is a
son of H. R. Lefroy, the new Groperland
1 Temier; another a son of the late AA Test-
i alian M.L.C., D. Gawler. A third, Sub-
lieut. G. T. Sholl, son of R. F. Sholl, ALL.C.
of W.A., was with the Light Horse in
Egypt and Gallipoli. Shortly after he joined
the Naval Armored Car Service Sholl won
the D.S.C. by saving a squadron of cars
ambushed by Turks at Alarnik. Other West-
ralians in this dependable push are E.
Turner and I- Walford.
Forty years ago a young Irishman living
at W airoa (ALL.) grasped the skirts of
happy chance and a dusky maiden named
Arini. He chose wisely, as it happened, for
Arini was the daughter of the old Hawkes
Bay fighting chief Ivarauria and the heiress
to more land than she knew about. In the
disentanglement of Maori-owned acres Arini
found herself proprietor of big blocks all over
the country. Wherefore the Irishman and
his bride prospered mightily. She died a
year or ihvo ago, and when George Prior
Donnelly followed her last week he must
have been an exceptionally wealthy man ; for
though most of his wife’s estate went to
their only daughter, he had accumulated
busily on his own account. He was a tall,
well-set-up, rather garrulous old party
highly unpopular among the Ilawkes Bay
squatters and addicted to the ownership of
racehorses. But with all his money there
were some things Donnelly could never buy,
though he would have given everything he
possessed to get them. One of these was a
share of the social esteeem in which Arini
Tonore was always held. He was 70 at the
finish.
Thirty years or so ago three young fel-
lows used to get what fun they could out of
their little S. Aus. burg of Narracoorte. The
eldest was Wm. Shiels. He went away and
became Treasurer of Vic. Next was A. IT.
Peake. He stayed at home and became
Treasurer of S. Aus. The third was
Jimmy Gardiner. He is Treasurer of West-
ral a again.
SPEAKER COHEN ,
of the N.S.W. Assembly.
A bullet abruptly ended the bright career
in France the other day of Harold Bell, son
of H. D. Bell, K.C., the well-known barrister
of Wellington (ALL.). Boru in the Windy
City, young Bell was educated partly there
and partly in England. Returning to ALL.
he practised as a barrister, and in 1908
entered the House of Reps, as member for
Wellington Suburbs. His prospects at the
Bar were brilliant when the European tumult
started, but he promptly flung them aside to
do his share of ensuring peace.
Joseph Croft, dead in Adelaide at 71, was
one of the expert telegraph men brought to
S. Aus. in the early ’6o's, when there was
no cable to Europe and no wire to Westralia.
Adelaide was the first place able to send on
to Melbourne and Sydney the news that came
by mail from London. Flood and Longson,
for Alelbourne Argus and Age, used to meet
the mail-steamers at Glenelg, and race with
rowing-boat and horse to get first to the wire
in Adelaide. The Croft family is still well
represented on the wires : one son is in the
old profession in Westralia, another at Cocos
Island.
From the Gallery of the Reps.:—
The return of Frank Brennan means a welcome
increase to the artillery of the Opposition. Tudor’s
squad is lamentably deficient in heavy guns, and none
of the new men would add any terrors to a general
bombardment. Wallace, Hughes’s successor for West
Sydney, seems to lack even the incentive of deep
feeling to make himself interesting. Considine, the
Barrier man, has a threatening jaw, hut the unex-
pected empressement of his surroundings has clipped
his vocabulary of the necessaries of strife. Blakeley,
of the Darling, has a stark, straight utterance, but it
would be the better for an honest laugh. True, none
of the new Liberals have thus far clothed their thoughts
in any finery either. Hector Lamond’s tongue is slow in
moving. He plainly isn’t comfortable in his new
galley. Lister and ITeitmann have hardly graduated
from the shire-councillor class; Maxwell is better at
the criminal bar; and Leckie’s proud Roman nose
need not deceive you into expecting a Ciceronian
flow of oratory. Moreover, he is sitting in a corner
where donations to the debate are usually labelled
“Interruptions,” and he will be a great man if he
can escape the infection of the company he keeps.
Altogether one must still depend upon Frank Anstey
for entertainment. No one can approach the whimsi-
cal force with which he frequently voices his aspirate-
less aspirations. Not even Hughes can so surely fill
a House and set even Palmer chuckling.
James Douglas Haig, a relative of the
British Commander-in-chief and a Double
Bay (Sydney) boy, has been killed. Though
only 16 when war began, he enlisted and was
at the Landing. Later he was discharged as
medically unfit in Australia, but was not to
be set aside by a mere trifle like that. He
went to England and enrolled in the Flying
Corps, gained a commission and was sent
again to Turkey. It was while on a “spot-
ting” flight that he was hit.
From the Maoriland Gallery :
Tt took the woolly-headed Massey Government of
Maoriland too long to make up its mind to release
Webb, M.H.R., imprisoned on a charge of seditious
language. Webb could be dangerous only behind
the bars. His red-rag eloquence is the most harm-
less I ever heard. He was a small suburban diapei
before politics caught him, and he is a true product
of that environment. In the expression of frothy'
revolutionary thoughts he resembles a cornel ed sheep
defying the horrible dangers of the farmyard. When
he catches the weary eye of Mr. Speaker the House
trails into Bellamy’s and drowns its sorrows, while
the press, leaving* a lonely, resentful sentinel in the
gallery, assembles for prayers at the old address.
Outside the House Webb is a meek, likable soul,
who would be far happier in his little shop than
breasting the cross-currents of polities.
A piece of brilliant bluff in magnifying his
SO men to 3000, including “500 Australians
who would not take a single prisoner, won
for Major J. A. Malcolm a bag of 500 Ger-
mans and a bar to his D.S.O. Malcolm, a
Victorian serving in German East Africa,
was in charge of a food and munition convoy
when he mesmerised the Huns into surren-
dering, after going into their lines under .a
white fiag to tell his story. Northey, his
brigadier, was notified, and sent a force to
collect the prisoners. Malcolm was origin-
ally a private under Tom Price, and won his
commission. He gained the 1).5.0. as far
back as when Cronje surrendered at the
Modder. When the Hun broke loose he was
a magistrate, and was given the job of O.C.
Transport:
John Emmott. who passed out at Berry
(N.S.W.), the other day, aged 77, was about
the oldest inhabitant of Ala’s South Coast,
and had been storekeeping at Aloruya
for over half a century. In the early
days at the “Gulph” diggings (now
Nerrigundah) ho did a big gold-buying
business, and was in the scrap with
the Clarke gang of bushrangers when
they stuck up the township in the
early ’f>o’s and killed Sergeant
O’Grady, whose monument now stands
’in the main street. On that occasion
Emmott was shot through the leg and
had his horse killed under him.
R. R. Pilkington, K.C., with the right
people shoving, easily won the Perth Assem-
bly seat vacated by Agent-General Connolly.
Pilkington was born in 1870, and is the son
of an Irish K.O. He is a brilliant human
icicle who scintillates to some purpose at the
Westralian Bar, and in politics he is pledged
to tackle the financial tangle.
Victoria’s only full-blooded Zulu had it in
mind to fight for Australia, his adopted
land, but was blocked by the regulation
against the enlistment of men not wholly or
partly of European origin. His adopted
name is James Duncan, and 1m lives at
Thorpdale, Gippsland. His parents were
killed in the rebellion when Prince Louis
Napoleon, only son of Napoleon 111., was
assegaied on a reconnaissance near Isandh-
hvana—the place of the Little Hand, where
the British were wiped out. At five years
of age he was adopted by white folk, and
brought to Australia. “That is my home, and
I would fight in her battles,” lie said. But
they r still turned him hack, and he left the
depot dejected.
R. M.
JOHNSTON ,
I.S.O., Tas-
manian Govt.
Statistician
and Registrar-
General.
“Flaneur’s” postscript to a recent send-
off :—•
Richard Egerton-Warburton, who died lately,
aged 77, was owner of Erldunda station, 100
miles west-nor’-west of Charlotte Waters, on the
Overland Telegraph. He was a son of Major War-
burton, the explorer, and nearly passed in his checks
some 44 years ago when accompanying dad
in an endeavor ,to cross from Alice Springs to Perth.
1 ou would have thought that his experience then
would have sickened him of Centralia ; hut it didn’t.
The camels knocked up early, and the partv
managed to reach the headwaters of the
after terrible privations. The journey occupied n'"
months, and the expedition was rationed for T
six. After that “Dick” AVarburton for some v °'
managed a big tract of country on the Fincke ,
un on Ids father’s advice, for a South Australi!"
pastoral firm. About 36 years ago he took
Erldunda for himself, and here he bred some fine o'
mounts, the limestone formation of the country n k
ing for bone. The old pioneer, who latterly ‘resided
at Oodnadatta, was possibly known over "a wid -
area than any man in Australasia.
GAME TO FACE ANYTHING.
“ You're a bloomin' hero, thash what y'are.
Y'mush come 'ome with me. Wifesh
waiting I'me.”
Australia lias its first rabbit-trapper mayor
—anyway, he’s the first this paper has met.
TTis friends know him as Tommy Draper; he
used to be sec. of the Braidwood (N.S.W.)
freezing works, and when they closed down
he went out after the cotton-tails for the
•sake of their pelts. Braidwood is his town.
Passed out at Dubbo (N.S.W.), aged 86.
William Moffatt, who had been an identity
of those parts since the year one, or there-
abouts. Moffatt opened the first sawmill in
Dubbo, and also the first flourmill, which is
still going strong. At the first municipal
election in the township in 1872 he
topped the poll, and was the first
mayor. Of the five aldermen elected with
him two survive—G. 11. Taylor, who has
been president of the local hospital for
nearly half a century, and most other tilings
in the town at some time or other; and
James Samuels, another veteran.
Births and deaths at Ivalgoorlie:—
Two old faces have gone from Kalgoorlie. Boh
Ni col son, general manager of the Ivanhoe, is dead
and buried ; U. A. Varden, attorney and boss of
the Perseverance, lias departed, leaving E. Davenport
(“eland in charge. Nicolson, who went out at 53..
had a varied career. He started on a station in
Queensland: then went droving; later was a hank
clerk ; finally went to Westralia in 1893 and fastened
on to mining. He began as a jackeroo at Bayley’s,
and when tired of that worked as. a miner for
Stafford, Bob Black and others at Murrin. When
lie bad a bit of experience to back him he became
manager of a small show at Menzies, and moved from
there to the Duke at Broad Arrow. Subsequently
the Whittaker Wright crowd put him in charge of
the now-defunct Paddington Consols, and a couple
of years later lie got the management of the Ivanhoe,
and kept it until he died. He never claimed to be
a trained mining engineer, hut was a tiptop admin-
istrator and a splendid manager. R. A. Varden
first arrived in the West when Coolgardie was
booming, and after opening up the old Brown Hill
and getting a street named after him in Kalgoorlie.
returned to England in 1897. Subsequently he held
mining appointments in all parts of the world, and
in 1910 returned to Kalgoorlie as general manager
of the Perseverance. He was esteemed by every-
body. Oleland, like Nicolson, had no regular train-
ing as a mining man. A sprig of a well-known old
S. Aus. family, and with an itch for writing, the
Register sent him to Broken Hill in its early days,
and he edited the Silver Ace for a while. On the
Barrier lie pottered around the mines, and lias been
more or less connected with the business ever since.
Colebatch, now leader for the Government in the
W estralian Leg. Council, was a youngster on the
Silver Age while Cleland was its mining reporter.
Corporal W. D. Howard, one of the Ben-
digo quartette who staged the star turn in
Gallipoli which won Jacka his Y.C.. is 111
those later days a prisoner in Germany.
MARIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A little gill in Sydney
Will keep her watch for me,
And look for my returning
From dangers o’er the sea.
Though countless leagues of ocean
May keep us far apart,
Tiie knowledge of her watching
Lends gladness to my heart.
Her eyes are skies of wonder,
Her lips are truly mine;
Her curling locks are shotted
With gleams of golden shine.
Quite unashamed and gladly
She climbed upon my knee,
My- little girl in Sydney
Who keeps a watch for me.
She knows not yet I left her —
She does not understand ;
But, as she waited daily
To hang upon my Hand,
With eager words of greeting,
She watches still for me;
My little girl in Sydney—
For she is scarcely three.
Ah, tender swell my heart-chords,
With love’s delightful pain!
Her love's a prayer to shield me
And bring me back again ;
For God will note her watching—
If any God there lie—
My little girl in Sydney,
Who keeps her watch for n \l
ON INACTIVE SERVICE AT SEA.
HAMER.


\ \
%
'/'«
r
i
%
\\N
\ \
N[
2 '
A
WHAT most men look for in a
Sleeping Suit is comfort, for
this is the first essential to restful sleep.
Realising this, our cutters have studied
carefully the special needs of men
whose figures are not of normal propor-
tions —those who are tall and slim or
short and stout— and so all men may
purchase Pyjamas here and be assured
of perfect fittings.
But sterling qualities of cloth and thorough
workmanship may also be expected whatever
price is paid, and this assurance added, consti-
tutes a certainty of good value in all “Austral”
Pyjamas made.
“AUSTRAL” PYJAMAS. Ready to wear or
* - - ■ ■ ' ■ 1 "" - 1 ' ' ' '
Made to Special Measure.
18.58 Men’s Pyjamas of Osman Flannelette, a standard quality in neat stripe
designs and quiet colorings. All seams are double-stitched and
gusseted. Two qualities.
Ready to wear — 8/6 each, 3 for 24/6; 10 6 each, 3 for 30/=
Made to measure —12/6 each, 3 for 36/=; 14 6 each, 3 for 52 =
18.59 —Men’s Pyjamas of Japanese Crepe, in Plain Grey, Blue and Pmk
colorings and White, with contrasting colored collar and cuffs and frog
fastenings.
Ready to wear — 8/6 each, 3 for 24/6
Made to measure —12/6 each, 3 for 36 =
18.60 Men’s Pyjamas of English Oxford, in varied stripe designs, a good
medium weight. A quality strongly recommended for its certainty to
give good wear. Two qualities.
Ready to wear— 8/6 each, 3 for 24/6; 10/6 each, 3 for 30 =
Made to measure—l 2 6 each, 3 for 36/=; 14/6 each, 3 for 52/=
18.61 —Men’s Pyjamas of Extra Grade Ceylon, splendidly made and finished.
All are neat stripe designs suitable for Winter or Summer Wear.
Ready to wear —l3 6 each, 3 for 39 =
Made to measure—l 7 6 each. 3 for 51 =
lE> s2—Men’s Pyjamas of All-wool Taffeta, in attractive Stripe designs. \
beautifully-finished lightweight fabric.
Ready to wear —27/6 each, 3 for 80 =
Made to measure—32/6 each, 3 for 95/-
F o y Ready-to-wear Pyjamas send chest and waist measure and height.
For Made-to-measure Pyjamas we send special patterns and instructions
for measurement on request.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
484 to 490 George Street, 3 to 17 Royal Arcade,
New Branch Shop at 304 George Street, near Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
W\


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SMACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING
LON DON: 8-
WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
'BRANCH OFFICES— COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 02 Brookinan’s Building.
- SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft I'ig Dead
Corroding Lead
Antinionial Lead
Vssay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refilled Siljer (Bar and Granulated)
Lino. Metal Litharge
Spelter Zinc Dust
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS OX A SPECIALLY-FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silioious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
, Lead Drosses, ete.
Registered
.8 HAS
Brand.
A!.l. INQUIRIES TO BE ABDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS^ IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of steel Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES'
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street
SYDNEY— 25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building. Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Whether the system" proposed by the
N.S.W. Hailway Commissioners is the best
or the worst this paper doesn't know; but
it does know (hat no large and complicated
business can be carried on properly without
some sort of costing system. In other words,
no man or company or department can suc-
ceed in a complicated business unless the
boss knows what the various processes are
costing him. He sees that his competitors
are getting ahead of him : and to meet them
he must be able to find out.the weak place
in 11is own establishment and compare the
outlay in that branch or department with
what it was a year, two years, three years
ago. A system of itemising or costing is
invaluable also where tenders have to be
put in and estimates given, or where a con-
cern such as the Itailways has to decide
whether it is cheaper to buy a thing from
outside or make it. A large business without
some such system is almost as helpless as a
ship without compass or chart. And unless
it lias the public’s pocket to dip into it is
almost as certain to come to grief.
Walkers, Limited, engine-builders, etc.
(Maryborough, Q.) :
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1904 ..£1,523 Nil £10,901
1905 .. 1,428 Nil £4600 7,729
1906 .. 2,182 Nil 6500 3,411
1997 .. 2,593 Nil 2500 3,504
1908 .. 3,288 3 p.e. =£2026 2000 2,766
1909 .. 7,248 5 „ „ 3376 2500 4,138
1910 .. 11,144 7 „ „ 4726 3000 7,556
£12,854 of internal reserves disclosed
and transferred to capital.
1911 .. 22,125 9 p.c. = 7291 3000 19,390
1912 .. 25.454 10 „ „ 8340 3000 33,504
1913 . . 21,014 10 „ „ 8620 3000 42,898
1914 .. 17,193 10 „ ~ 8694 3000 48,397
1915 .. 16,374 10 „ „ 8694 3000 53,577
Reserves capitalised, £41,403 . . 12,174
1916 .. 11.669 7 p.e. = 9133 2500 12,210
1917 .: 11,859 7 „ „ 9133 2500 12,436
This co., which has built as fine a reputa-
tion for itself as any industrial concern in
Australia, has had plenty of work during
the past couple of years; but costs have been
steadily increasing, partly as the result of
dislocations due to the war. Follow-
ing upon the loan boom and the construction
of hundreds of miles of new railway,
Walker’s secured large contracts for the
supply of rolling stock to the Commonwealth
and State Governments. “The balance of
material required for the contracts for locos,
for the S. Aus. and Queensland Govern-
ments has been obtained,” the directors say,
“and these contracts are now completed.
There appears, however, very little hope of
obtaining, until after the war, the remaining
material required to complete the contract
with the Commonwealth Government, but
good progress is being made as far as
material on hand will permit.” Meantime
“a fair volume of business has been done in
sugar-mill and other classes of machinery.”
As for the future —who can tell? Only
this much can be said : the co. has not only
the technical skill and the plant, but is in
an excellent position to finance its contracts
and provide any further necessary equip-
ment. This comparison shows how the co.’s
resources have been strengthened in the last
10 years:—
•Tune,’o7. June,’l6. June,’l7.
Assits other than free-
holds and plant .. £24,125 £141,339 £119,470
Liabilities . . . . 6,588 43,149 19,828
Surplus .. £17,537 £98,190 £99,642
That there, wasn’t very much growth last
year was due partly to the fact that a fair
amount of money was spent on additional
plant. The £119,470 of assets other than
freeholds and machinery includes £52.052
of “invested funds,” £27.124 of stock-in-trade,
£6764 of cash and deposi-ts with tenders,
£9618 of hook debts and £23,913 represented
by “value of work performed on contracts
in hand over and above progress payments.”
This last item isn’t a sure guide to the
briskness or otherwise of business; but, in
general, it gives some sort of indication;
and these are the figures for the past few
years: 1914. £69.385; 1915, £38,727; 1916.
£50,474; 1917. £23,913. That doesn’t make
prospects look very cheerful. And this
paper wouldn’t expect them to be very cheer-
ful. Every few years Australia develops a
poor breed of politicians who find that the
easiest way to get votes is to buy them with
borrowed money; and then we have a loan
boom, and Private Enterprise is misled by
the bogus prosperity and launches out, too.
So the engineering and construction trades
of Australia have periods of bustle followed
by periods of depression, periods during
which they can make almost extravagant
profits and periods during which they can
hardly keep the pot boiling. Our only hope
that a period of very great depression is not
immediately ahead of us lies in the fact that
possibly the war will have taught us the
benefit of being more self-reliant, especially
in the matter of iron and steel manufactures.
But whether we shall go any distance
depends upon the extent to which the Aus-
tralian working-man resolves to earn the
high wages that he demands.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1909.. £901,838 £673,622 £228,216
Mav, 1910. . 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov., 1910.. 484,755 408,450 76,305
May, 1911.. 468,538 350,867 117,671
Nov., 1911.. 452,336 381,730 70,606
Mav, 1912.. 537,378 349,985 187,393
Nov., 1912.. 640.712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913.. 499,317 351,314 148,003
Nov., 1913.. 496,936 351,973 144,963
Mav, 1914.. 459,606 328,217 131,389
Nov., 1914.. 502,382 438,546 63,836
Mav, 1915.. 503,018 400,215 102,803
Nov., 1915.. 647.038 478,395 168,643
Mav, 1916.. 617.754 49,9,616 118,138
Nov., 1916.. 643,990 502,475 141,515
'May, 1917.. 657,387 489,697 167,690
At the end of May, 1916, there was on hand
1875 tons copper, which was valued at
£55 per ton. It was sold subsequently at an
average of £94 16s. sd. At the close of the
first half of the past year 2196 tons re-
mained on hand, and this realised £ll4
Bs. 7d. At May 31 there were 1399 tons on
hand, and as usual this was valued at £55.
So the past half-year’s accounts get the
benefit of 797 tons copper, the difference
between the stocks as at the beginning and
close of the period. At £59 Bs. 7d. per toil
—the difference between what this copper
was valued at and what it realised —-the past
half-year thus benefited to the extent of
£47,400. Deduct that from the profit, and
the half-year’s figures are again very dis-
appointing, in view of the fact that so much
of the half-year’s copper as was sold realised
£ll7 10s. Excluding metal produced from
ores smelted on account of Port Ivembla, the
half-year’s harvest was 3490 tons copper
and 44,2040 z. gold, as against 4554 tons and
54,7460 z. in the preceding half. Deducting
£47,400 from the half-year’s profit we get
£120,290, which is equal to £34 9s. per ton
of metal. The average price realised was
£ll7 10s. Deduct the profit from that, and
you find that costs ran away with the whole
of the gold and £B3 Is. per ton of copper.
Considering the size of the ore bodies, their
comparative shallowness, and the fact that
the mine is handy to port, these figures
almost take the breath away. The direc-
tors give costs on the basis of tonnage :
Costs, including mining, development and realisa-
tion charges, averaged for the half-year 575. 7.9 d. per
ton of Mount Morgan we, and compare with 50s.
10.9 d. for the immediately preceding period.
Put it another way. It took all the copper
content of 24 p.c. ore at £BO per ton and
slightly over 4dwt. gold to pay costs exclu-
sive of income and other taxes and office
exes. The only explanation offered is that
“the general advance in cost of supplies; in-
clusive of coal and coke, coupled with the
reduced working time, is mainly responsible
for the increase.” But it will be an extraor-
dinarily smooth half-year in a concern of
this size when everything is just as it ought
to be. And, so far as this paper can see,
nothing has been put aside for contingencies
—such as war taxation. There is a contin-
gency fund of £234,198, but it hasn’t been
added to during the past half-year.
Where does the money go? For the year
—including the more favorable early half —
the co. handled 327,667 tons of Mount Mor-
gan ore. Working on the figures in the
accounts we get these costs per ton on that
output:—
Cost,
per ton.
Cost. . s. d.
Mining £270,633 16 7
Concentrating, briquetting,
roasting and sintering . . 109,420 6 8
Smelting' .. ..• .. 269,019 16 6
Converting . . . . . . 53,431 3 3
Refining and realisation . . 93,198 5 9
General mine exes. . . . . 36,732 2 3
Exes, charged to P. and L.,
including taxes, manage-
ment and depreciation . . 101,118 6 2
Total .. 57 2
That, of course, is exclusive of the cost of
mining Many Peaks fluxing ore and bringing
it to Mount Morgan. If they can’t do better
than that it doesn’t matter much in ordin-
ary times what the ore reserves are. But,
on the assumption that something better can
be done, it may be worth noting that re-
serves on May 27 were -estimated at 4,064,244
tons, averaging 2.58 p.c. copper and 6.lsdwt.
gold. But of the 327,667 tons mined during
the year no less than 58.311 tons came from
outside the boundaries of the ore included as
reserves. And some of this unestimated ore
isn’t much poorer than that included in the
estimate; for while the average of the re-
serves is 2.58 p.c. and G.lSdwt., the 327,667
tons (including the 58,311 tons) averaged
2.61 p.c, and 6.B6dwt.
The management is apparently building its
hopes mainly on the concentrating plant. A
jigging scheme is now being introduced-
part of the plant is already at work —-to take
out the more heavily-mineralised portion of
the ore, which is passed direct as coarse
concentrates to the furnaces; the residue
passes on through the mill, with the flotation
plant at the end. Copper recovery in .the
concentrates is satisfactory enough—93.o9
p.c.—but very nearly one-fourth of the gold
(22.18 p.c.) is unrecovered.
Of the net profit of £309,205 made during
the year £250,000 was divided and another
£50,000 was paid on August 1. Liquid assets
on May 31 were £522,108 in excess of lia-
bilities. (Stores and fuel are here reckoned
as liquid.) Twelve months ago the surplus
was £436,479 ; so there has been an improve-
ment of £85,629 notwithstanding that
£250,000 has been paid out. Add those
two and you get a total of £335,629, which is
£26,424 more than the net profit. You can
reconcile most of this apparent discrepancy
by noting that £41,367 is written off against
depreciation, whereas only £20,083 was ex-
pended on new plant, etc., during the year.
Anyway, if more was spent it was included
with working exes.
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dee., 1909.. £4937 124p.c=£4683 £254 £28,602
Premiums on new shares 19 28,621
June, 1910.. 4687 121 p.c.= 4687 28,621
Premiums on new shares 3095 31,716
Dec., 1910.. 5858 12J p.c.= 4859 999 32,715
Premiums on new shares 12 32,727
June, 1911.. 6081 121 p.c.= 4881 1200 33,927
Dec., 1911.. 5981 121 „ „ 4881 1100 35,027
June, 1912.. 6024 121 „ 4882 1142 36,169
Dec., 1912.. 6468 121 „ „ 5410 1058 37,227
Premiums on new shares 2915 40,142
June, 1913.. 6972 121 p.c.= 6216 756 40,898
Dec., 1913.. 8766 121 „ .. 6571 2195 43,093
June, 1914.. 7531 121 „ ~ 6640 891 43,984
Dee., 1914.. 5198 10 ~ ~ 5312 43,870
June, 1915.. 6594 10 ~ „ 5518 1076 44,946
Dec., 1915.. 7096 10 „,, 5625 1471 46,417
June, 1916.. 6246 10 „,. 5625 621 47,038
Dec., 1916., 7000 10 „„ 5625 1375 48,413
June, 1917.. 6897 10 „„ 5625 1272 49,685
Perhaps they could have made the half-
year’s profit a bit more; but “cost of new
strongroom door” was thrown in with work-
ing exes. Interest earnings were certainly
better; including net profit of branches they
have lately moved this way: June, 1916,
£12,520; December, 1916, £13,419;-June,
1917, £14,081. And the co. isn’t going into
debt to do it. Twelve months ago it owed on
all accounts £1946, and had £8779 in hand ;
now it owes £2706, and has £B9OB in hand.
“Advances on mortgages, pledges and other
securities, and other assets,” were valued at
£133,654. The only asset of consequence not
included in that bundle is freehold and lease-
hold property, £27,025. Thirty-five years
this co. has had out its sign; and though
this paper’s records don’t go back all the
way, they go back 20-odd years, and the
poorest harvest the shareholders ever got
during that period was in 1900 and there-
abouts, when 74 p.c. was paid for three or
four terms. No matter wdiat is the state of
Denmark there are evidently some people
who must have an uncle. When they are
sick they want medicine. When they are
well they*\vant stout and oysters.
But it doesn’t follow that the future will
be all that the past has been. More and
more the law insists upon poking an inquisi-
tive nose into money-lending transactions
and deciding what is a fair thing and what
isn’t. Melbourne has lately been reading
columns about one case in which this co. was
interested (it has a branch in Swanston-
street). The matter came into the County
Court on an application that an agreement
which plaintiff had made with the co. should
be declared under the Money Lenders Act to
be harsh and unconscionable and should he
altered by the Court. The plaintiff, to begin
with, borrowed £BO. the arrangement being
that he should pay £2O as'interest, repay £1
weekly and wipe out the whole loan within
one year. Assuming that only £1 per week
was paid till the end of the year, the actual
rate of interest was somewhere in the neigh-
borhood of 45 p.c., instead of the 25 p.c.
which it would be if the borrower had the
use of the £BO throughout' the year. Said
Judge Moule :—-
In banks, interest was calculated upon the daily
balance, and the customers got the full benefit of ail
repayments. It had been argued that it would be
absolutely impossible to apply this banking system to
money-lenders. Money-lenders took risks which no
sound banking institution would look at, and to
cover these risks persons who went to money-lenders
were prepared to pay the vastly higher rate of in-
terest. But the question was whether money-lenders
were entitled to keep their accounts in such a form
that they raised the interest ever so much bevond the
rate understood by the client? In this particular
instance his Honor was prepared to allow the
money-lender to charge 25 p.c. interest per annum
but only, upon condition that the bookkeepin<>- method’
of banks was adopted.
So his Honor directed that the transaction
he reopened as from its inception (the client
had gone on and on) ; that the accounts be
taken as on a daily balance, according to the
system adopted by banks; and that the rate
of interest chargeable be 25 p.c., with half-
yearly rests (that is, unpaid interest should
be added to the principal once every six-
months, and the interest be then chargeable
on the increased amount). Further, instead
of the plaintiff owing the defendant co. £lO5
“the defendant co. must pay whatever
balance might be found due to plaintiff, and
also costs.” Stay of proceedings was granted,
and presumably there will be an appeal.
If the decision stands, it is going to revo-
lutionise the money-lending business. It is
notorious that there are small money-lenders
with a capital of four or five thousand
pounds who make —well, nearly as much
as a County Court Judge. They couldn’t
do it without charging unconscionably.
The first thing necessary to enable the
lender to charge a reasonable rate is
a fairly large capital and turnover; and
that was why this co. was brought into ex-
istence. The undisputed facts of the Mel-
bourne case read just about as bad as any
facts could. But two things have to be re-
membered. (1) Some advances are worth
100 p.c.—G p.c. or S p.c. for the money, and
the rest for the risk. You rarely hear of
the cases where the lender falls in. When lie
doesn’t fall in, the rate of interest naturally
seems extortionate. (2) As far as this paper
knows, the N.S.W. Mont de Piete is as well
managed as the average bank. Yet, though a
good deal of its capital has been subscribed
at a premium, the co. never has paid more
than 124 p.c., and hasn’t in 35 years aver-
aged 10 p.c., whereas Australian banks are
paying up to 14 p.c. and several are paying
10 p.c. regularly.
Australia Hotel Co., Ltd. (Sydney).—.
The net profit for the past year was £13,933,
including £2OOO transferred to general reserve
fund, which now amounts to £32,722. The
dividend for the year was 6 p.c. (=£1980)
on the £33,000 cumulative pref. capital and
6§ p.c. (=£10.000) on the £150,000 ordinary
capital—the same a's in the preceding year.
There is £ll4 to carry forward; and, in
addition, there is £3812 of a machinery and
general renewal reserve. During the year,
following upon a lire which occurred in the
upper part of the building in Dec., 1915,
extensive alterations and additions have been
made to the premises. This is reflected in
these figures:—
1914. 1916. 1917.
Liabilities .. .. . . £24,533 £14,928 £32,075
Assets apart from premises,
furniture and plant . . 12,032 25,016 17,963
So a surplus of £lO,OBB of liquid assets has
been changed during the year into an excess of
liabilities of £14,112. The bulk of the money
has gone into improved and extended accom-
modation ; and the renewal of the sixth floor
(which, along with the remodelled winter
garden, will be out of the contractor’s hands
next month) has been effected in such a way
that two storeys may be added without
interfering with the rest of the house.
Profits in this class of business arc not
what they were. The war has cut out the
oversea tourist who used ’to anchor for a
while at the Australia ; and labor and other
costs have been steadily advancing. Taking
into account these things and the fact that
such extensive alterations, etc., have been
in progress for 18 months past, the financial
results have been very satisfactory; all the
more satisfactory because something more
than ordinary maintenance appears to Yave
been provided out of current revenue. Against
the general reserve mentioned above goodwill
stands in the books at £25.000. With the
additions, the freehold stands in at £187,800
and furniture and plant at £27,ooo—the
latter the same as last year.
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
Dec., 1909..£4523 Bp.c.=£36(>o £923 £37,566
June, 1910.. 4994 7 „ „ 3150 1844 39,410
Dec., 1910.. 5659 7 „ „ 3150 2509 41,919
June, 1911.. 5416 9 „ „ 4050 1366 43,285
Dec., 1911.. 5742 7 „,, 3150 2592 45,877
June, 1912.. 5015 7 „ „ 3150 1865 47,742
Dec., 1912.. 6366 9 „,, 4050 2316 50,058
June, 1913.. 5485 7 ~ „ 3150 2335 52,393
Dec., 1913.. 5959 8 „ „ 3600 2359 54,752
Written off premises, £2500 .. 52,252
June, 1914.. 9738 10 p.c. = 4500 5238 57,490
Written off premises, £5OOO . . 52,490
Dec., 1914.. 6282 8 p.c. = 3600 2682 55,172
Written off premises, £2500 .. 52,672
June, 1915.. 5073 8 p.c. = 3600 1473 54.145
Pec., 1915.. 6375 10 „ „ 4500 1875 56,020
June, 1910., 5015 8 „„ 3600 1415 57,435
Dec., 1916.. 5503 8 ~ ~ 3600 1903 59,338
June, 1917.. 5759 12 ~ „ 5400 359 59,697
Of the £5400 now paid to shareholders 8 p.c.
p.a. is by way of dividend and the other 4
p.c. p.a. by way of bonus—the latter a hint,
no doubt, that the directors don’t see their
way to make it a permanent thing. To pay
away so much of the profits even as a bonus
is a departure from the Board’s policy. But'
these are exceptional times; and as the direc-
tors “have found it expedient and necessary


When instructing your Solicitor
to draw
YOU R WILL
get him to name
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
AS YOUR EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE.
You will thus ensure the safety of the assets
arid obtain a degree of Security for Proper
Administration far beyond the power of the
private “amateur” trustee.
An interesting booklet will be posted on
application to the Company at
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CHAMBERS.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager.
*ARC BOHN 1
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
»• 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital £250,0C0
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,165 6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
M e agree with the Secretary of the Automobile Club
of Australia and think that motor-cars in Australia
are a necessity. Every motor-car owner, however,
should practise economy during the war by charging
his own lighting and ignition batteries at home, 'this
can be very simply done by installing a G.E. Mercury
Arc Rectifier, which can be obtained from the Aus-
tralian General Electric Company, Sydney and Mel*
bourne. — Advt.
Everything is going up, even writing-paper which
is supposed to be stationery. And as for roofing-iron
prices—they look like seeking altitude records. How-
ever that need cause no worry to the man who has
to buy roofing, for he can get Adamax —the roofing
which costs only one-third the price of iron, and in
addition is unaffected by rust, fumes or acids.
Adamax is a better roofing than iron at its lowest
price. It costs less to buy, less to lay, and the
f eight is less. Write to-dav for sample and booklet,
“The Adamax Series.” William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
—Advt.
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can .give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the logical pipe for water
systems, has greater carrying capacity, is easier to
handle and to lay, is lighter and saves cost in
freight, costs from 25 per cent, to 60 per cent, less
than metal pipes, and is the cleanest pipe for convey-
ing water, which preserves instead of corroding wood
pipe, making it last indefinitely. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited, (head office) 57 York Street, Sydnev.
Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic.; and
Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
It is wonderful what an ordinary man can do
with an ordinary hammer, some nails ahd a few
sheets of Asbestolite. It is the building material
par excellence, and is fire- and weather-proof.
Spriggs’ -Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Svd-
ney.— Advt. ‘[X
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
Denby Motor Lorries selected as thf best bv
America’s postal officials. An inscription on the
New York Post Office reads: “Neither snow nor rain
nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers
from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.”
And the “Denby” does it! Several models
from Australian stocks. Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
head office: The Quay, Sydney. Australian Machinery
Co. Ltd., 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
* * H. ,
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins "street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals a
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars II B
Selby fz Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney: 'am
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
Tjl O K IMMEDIATE SALE
MOUNT MILLER
MANGANESE MINE.
BEECHEIi,
Boyne Valley Line,
Queensland, Australia.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
* SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Rails and Portable Train Lines.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street, Syd ney.
owing to the high cost of living to increase
salaries and allowances,” so perhaps they
regard it as also expedient to give something
extra to shareholders, who have to meet the
high cost of living, too. In any case the
co. s position is so strong that it isn’t in
urgent need of further reserves. Its paid
share capital is £90.000, an exceptionally
large amount for a trustee co., and its re-
serves are just on £60,000. That £150.000
constitutes a guarantee fund which has to
cover the risk of losses made through mis-
reading instructions; and though that risk is
always greater when (as now) capital
values are shrinking, the co. is so experi-
enced in the business that serious errors are
improbable. The £150,000 is invested in
f?'jWic securities (£54,032), mortgages
(±38,800), and office property in Collins-
street (cost £69,348, written down to
£50,000). The other few thousands are in
cash and sundries.
As. to the outlook for profit, the best fea-
ture is the. steady growth of business. For
the first time the estates in hand exceed
£12,000,000. It looked at one time as if
the trustee co. was not doing enough for
its money; but exes, have so increased,
partly as the result of the higher pay of
clerks, partly as the result of the Govern-
ment demand for taxation and other returns,
that profits are nowadays small compared
with the work done. Take this co.’s aver-
age profit as £11,200 a year. The co.’s own
even at 3i p.c., would earn say
£4400 a year, leaving £6300 to come from
the business—a shade over Is. Old. p.c. p.a.
Even assuming that it would be possible to
get equal service outside a trustee co. at the
same cost, the client gets, in return for the
extra Is. o£d. p.c. p.a., a guarantee that (1)
his trustee won’t die or take a hurried pas-
sage for Guam or Berlin; (2) the testator’s
instructions will he carried out; (3) the
executor won't be so old as to be no longer
capable of doing the beneficiaries justice by
the time he has to act; and (4) there won’t
be any leakage of principal or interest. It
is a good deal to get for Is. Old. p.c. p.a.
* * * *
The Queensland Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. (Ipswich, Queensland) :
Dividends and Written To Re-
June, Loss. Dividend Tax. Oft. serves. Deficit.
1906.. £446 Nil £5733 £14,086
Assets written down and losses
written off, £5546 .. .. 19,632
Reserves.
£23,339 (one-half the capital)
written off, leaving .. .. 3.707
Loss.
1907.. 411 Nil _ 3,296
1908.. 514 Nil 2,782
Profit.
1909.. 1,657 Nil 500 £1157 3,939
1910.. 2,990 Nil >OOO 990 4.929
1911.. 3,563 Nil 2000 1563 6,492
1912.. 4,867 2A p.c. = £613 2000 2254 " 8,746
1913.. 2,485 2f „ „ 613 1500 372 9.118
Dividends forfeited . . 204 9,322
1914.. 4,042 5 p.c. = 1225 2000 817 10,139
1915.. 8,838 10 „ „ 2450 4000 2388 12,527
1916.. 10,484 20 ~ ~ 6410 2000 2074 14,601
1917.. 3,572 71 „ „ 2883 1595 13,695
That is not a bit like things were supposed
to be with woollen manufacturing cos. The
directors make this explanation :—-
Owing to the increased price of wool, dyewares,
oil, coal and all other things, the cost of our goods
was very largely increased. As we were comman-
deered by the Federal Government, which fixed the
price it would pay for the goods, we were part of
the year working at a loss.
Still, “there is an increasing demand for the
co.’s goods, the trouble being to turn out
enough material to meet all demands.” There
would be less trouble if Australia had bought
its own woollens and all the other things it
could very well make on the premises. In
that case we should have had a big enough
population to support large machinery
works, and the additional plant which the
co. hasn’t got, because it “has not yet
arrived,” would have been promptly avail-
able to meet the extra demand. As it is, the
co., after getting nicely'*out of debt —12
months ago it had, in fact, nearly £5500 in
hand —lias drifted back, and now owes the
bank £5517, money represented partly by
extra stocks of wool and partly by machin-
ery paid for but not delivered. And it will
have to owe a good deal more if the war-
time profits tax is made retrospective. That
tax ought to have been fixed two years ago ;
and it is a disgrace to the vote-hunting poli-
ticians who have had charge of public affairs
in Australia that the fair thing was not done
then. Now no wholly fair thing can be done.
* * * *
Twenty times lately reference has been
made here to the serious position of the
mineral oil business of the 7J..5.A. The. Cali-
fornian and other reserves are distinctly
limited. Recognising this, the U.S. Gov-
ernment is reserving unworked oil lands
for Naval purposes; and this of course has
further shorten d the period during which
commercial supplies may be drawn from the
Racific-coast fields. Doubtless partly as the
result of this the Vacuum Oil Co. has decided
to spend money in Australia to thoroughly
test* the possible oil-bearing areas. “Certain
tracts of land” are to be examined. “The
owners of these tracts,” it is explained, ‘.‘are
Australians, and the Vacuum Oil Co. has
made agreements with them that in case oil
is found new cos. will be formed, and that
shares in these cos. will be put on the market
to allow the Australian public to participate
if it so desires.” A geologist, Walter A.
English, with “broad experience in the Cali-
fornian and Canadian fields,” has severed
his connection with the U.S.A. Government
to take up this job in Australia, and he has
already arrived. If oil is found (and under
certain conditions the co. has agreed to spend
up to £lOO,OOO in the search), the co. pro-
poses to erect refineries at the nearest port.
The proposition is one of the most important
- to which this column has referred for many
a day. It might have been better perhaps
had neither the Vacuum nor any other foreign
co. had a finger in the pie. But it is better
to have a pie with a foreign finger in it than
no pie at all; and there seemed mighty little
prospect of Australia doing anything in this
oil business exclusively on her own account.
* « * *
“Hoosh” : lodide Mineral Hill (N.S.W.),
floated for £150,000 in the days when specu-
lators had more money than sense, still sucks
the sorrowful shareholders. Shareholders
who have seen £8 2s. 6d. of their £lO shares
fooled away have just received a formidable
legal document from the liquidator. He
announces that on August 21 he will “settle
the list of contributories.” Which means
calls. Perhaps the vendor and promoters
who pouched £44,000 in solid sovs. will come
to the rescue. But I wouldn’t bet on it.
Water is being laid on to the molybdenite
field at Mount Tennyson, near Bathurst
(N.S.W.). A line of pipes is being run
from a spring 4| miles away, and as other
treatment measures are being prepared, re-
sults should be heard of before long. Any
doubts about the extent of the deposit may
be regarded as settled. It is all now a ques-
tion of extraction. The cos. concerned are
to use the flotation process, pending the dis-
covery of something better, and they figure
on an average of 1.7 p.c. in the stone. But
even if the yield goes below'that, good pro-
fits may be landed provided the handling
costs keep near the current quotes and the
market doesn’t break. Andrews, of the Mines
Department, calculates that even if the ore
returned only .5 of mineral a profit should
be made. He strongly advocates treatment
in a large way. But the three cos. on the
field seem to have decided on independent
. plants.
Costs ate up almost everything at Cope’s
Creek Central (N.S.W.) last half-year, so
that out of £14,062 from the sale of tin
oxide only £791 was net profit. On May 31
the co. owed about £3lOO and was owed
£3597, so nothing was available for divs.
This is poor going, but when 1.31 b. ground
like that at the Cope’s Creek block costs
practically 131 d. per cub. yard to handle,
nothing better is possible. Hard ground and
high labor and other charges put on 2d. per
cub. yard during the term. Things did not
go quite so badly at Skeleton Creek, where
costs averaged per cub. yard ; but it
was low-grade ground, ranging from 0.6781 b.
at No. 4 plant to 0.851 b. at No. 3 plant. As
the A.M.A. is on the hunt for more pay, and
as the Courts appear to be in a kindly frame
of mind, prayers are being offered that as
No. 2 plant gets up the creek towards No. 4
site, more tin will spangle the wash.
Bodangora, Mitchell’s Creek (N.S.W.),
wants cash to pay the N. S. Wales income
tax and workers’ compensation premiiyns,
to say nothing of the minor item of financing
development. Poor dirt at No. 9 level and
the narrowness of the reefs have entered the
co. as a doubtful runner in the Dividend
takes.
One .T. P. L. Kenny, geologist, has been
putting the rule on S. ,t. Plane’s Main Reef
at Maindample (Vic.). He shows that the
co.’s prospects must improve if calls are to
be avoided. This isn’t because the
stone milled liasn’t been payable, but
because the rfeefs of the field are
narrow and the slibots of gold short. It
seems a pretty wild thing to drive 540 ft. in
the hunt after Anderson’s reef unless in the
bottom of the upper level there whs the best
of evidence that the shoot was widening.
Westonia has 4ipen deluged with rain dur-
ing the past month, and the tracks from the
six-mile-distant Carrabin railway siding are
so cut up as to render travelling dangerous
and the transport of heavy machinery, fire-
wood and mine timber slow and difficult.
* * * *
The members of the “I told you so” bri-
gade are sweeping up fragments of the Edna
Deep bears and the Perth mining touts who
were bombed last week. Some of the broking
fraternity in Adelaide and Melbourne got
real nasty knocks over the boom, but the
settling seems to have been done without dis-
aster. The cause of it all was the unex-
pected arrival of a startlingly rich shoot of
gold on the hanging-wall side of the lode at
560 ft. If there had been any indication at
480 ft. of this slab of stone, quidnuncs would
be entitled to pout their chests. As there
wasn’t a trace of the make of stone there,
Bob Stuckey has simply to thank his stars
that the luck that has ever been with him
over Deeps is still on his side. From present
appearances it looks as if the shoot arises
out of the junctioning of the hanging-wall
reef with the main Edna formation. Its
extent can’t be gauged, but Westonia counts
on Stuckey being able to put out one, two or
more sensational yields, unless he should
prefer to bank up some of the rich stuff, as
is the practice in Westralia. With the bears
swept out the bulls have as clear a run as
had the Edna Central crowd when they
shoved their shares to £6 during the New
reef gamble. If another flutter of the kind
is attempted with Deeps, it will be well to
remember that Edna May, working the same
lode, and with a longer shoot of rich stone,
has only totalled £272.000 of divs. from
four levels. The Deeps has one partlv-
opened level at 560 ft., with 10,000 tons of
40s. ore to draw on at 480 ft. To this proved
stock of ore and the chances of more the
attaches a valuation of about
£200,000. It is all a gamble.
* * * *
Mt. Monger (W.A.) is getting a good deal
ot notice in the papers. A big area of
country is being prospected by small parties,
and some have done exceedingly well. Reefs,
however, are small and shoots short, and so
tar not enough ore has been exposed to
warrant the Government installing a mill.
Early this year a Sydney syndicate took
an option over the Golden Dream at
Parker’s Range, Yilgarn (W.A.). 530 z. have
since been obtained from 52 tons, with 7dwt.
in the residues, and it has now been decided
to complete the purchase. Prospects are
reported good down to 140 ft., where 30dwt.
to 2oz. ore is stated to be obtainable over
small widths. Some more ore is awaiting
treatment, but the state of the roads pre-
vents cartage to the mill at present.
Rumor had given up Coronet Hill (N.T.)
for lost; but recently the Government sub-
sidy was renewed with enthusiasm. Stuff at
grass shows 20 p.c. copper and 20oz. silver
by Government assay, and the manager has
begun to send away 60 tons a month, which
can be shipped to Port Kembla at a profit, it
is alleged, of £lO a ton.
Arba Tin (Tas.) has declared a sixpenny
(£1500). The half-year closed with a pro-
fit of £1036, which isn’t satisfactory con-
sidering the mine produced 53 tons 6cwt. of
high-grade oxide in six months. A small
profit under present conditions isn’t healthy.
What are known as the main workings pro-
duced 13 tons 15cwt. of black tin from
16,388 cubic yards, and the Easement pro-
perty handled 62,490 cubic yards for 39
tons llcwt. Costs averaged 8.69 d. per yard.
After deducting debts the half-year closed
with a credit balance of £2S4B. ‘ The Ease-
ment workings returned ,1.421 b. per cubic
yard, which against mine costs of 8.69 d.
per yard is highly profitable. The tin cleaned
up since the close of the half-year has fur-
ther refreshed the finances. There are
60,000 shares of Bs. each, all fully paid.
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) has declared
another 2s. 6d., but shares continue in the
slough and are low«r than most people can
remember. It is difficult this winter to feed
the mill up to its capacity, so the output
lingers at 16 tons of concentrates per fort-
night. A few years ago Bischoff was able
to rush 20,000 tons a month through, with a
recovery of about 10s., at a marvellously low
cost of less than ss. Conditions have
changed since then. The quantity sent to
the mill is less, and costs, instead of asking
for 50 p.c. of the recovered value, now take
from 70 to SO p.c.
* * * *
King Island Scheelite Co. (Tas.) .started
its mill on July 26; but as the separation
of scheelite or tungstate of lime from garnet
rock is difficult, it will take time to get the
magnetic separator and other plant into
their stride. The available ore is probably
worth about 1.2 p.c. of tungstic acid. At
50s.' per unit the gross value would be 60s.
J. B. Lewis anticipated a recovery of 60 p.c.
of the assay, and that would mean 365. per
ton. There are, however, enormous quanti-
ties of rock that carry below 1 p.c. tungstic
acid, so King Island Scheelite isn’t a proposi-
tion that can do itself justice with a small
mill. Block 14 (Broken Hill) has practi-
cally a controlling interest: it holds 42,000
of the 100.(UK) shares of 10s. each.
A nice big lump of opal, valued at £2OO,
has been found in Stuart’s Range, about 160
miles from Tarcoola, in the Very Far North
of S. Aus. T. C. Wollaston, Adelaide opal
expert, declares that it is the best specimen
he has seen.
Tongkah (Siam) shells out its 2s. divi-
dend in good spirits because its little fleet
of dredges continues to gather between 80
and 90 tons of tin oxide per month, the
largest output of any mine in Malaya and
Australia. The metal has been quoted
lately at £240, but Siam takes £25 out of
that. There isn’t a,tax like that in Aus-
tralia ; but Briseis, in Tasmania, pays
Britain ss. in the £. Tongkah Harbor has
distributed £345,000, Briseis (Tas.) £447.000
and the Pioneer £373,000.
* * * *
Another Bonanza (fatal name) has
gone bung, and the bubble in bursting leaves
behind an odor. Some three years ago the
Bonanza (MX.) was floated in Sydney. A
suction-dredge proposition, it comprised
some 33 acres of alleged auriferous lead on
Nelson’s Creek, 20 odd miles from Grey-
mouth. Never were reports more rapturous.
One alleged authority, who checkbored and
sampled the ground, predicted a yield of
over 4s. per cubic'yard, or for one-half the
claim £121,000! Other experts were ecstatic.
Some thousands were spent by Sydney share-
holders in erection of a Kershaw plant from
Castlemaine. But the promised net profit
of £3200 per month was never realised ; the
mountain labored and brought forth a grand
total of less than £100! In despair the
directors recently despatched 11. W. Clark
to the ground, and he is back, bringing with
him as the result of much toil and trouble
loz. lOdwt. of the precious metal, and the
tardy information that a grain to the yard
would probably prove a very sanguine esti-
mate.
“Good Australian”:—
Three minerals brought into active use for war
purposes, and all of them of frequent occurrence in
Australia, are chrome-iron-ore, manganese and mag-
nesite. Magnesite has become most valuable; it is
one of the principal materials used in the manufac-
ture of plaster for floorings and for Stucco. For-
merly it came from the Balkan States, and now
America is being ransacked for it. There is a vast
deposit of manganese near Bruthen, in Gippsland
(Vic.), which ought to. be of value in U.S.A. nowa-
days, because anything over 45 p.c. is snapped up
by steel-makers. The news of the purchase by an
American syndicate of 650,000 tons of scrap steel
and iron belonging to the Government railways of
Mexico, said to be worth £6,000,000, ought to
make our State railways think of collecting their
scrap. And somebody ought to be thinking of
putting into use the Blythe River iron deposits near
Burnie (Tas.).
The Thermo-Electric Ore Reduction Cor-
poration, of Luton (Eng.), is erecting a
reduction plant on the Wolfram field
(N.Q.). Large Diesel oil engines will fur-
nish power, and a 30-head battery is to be
erected, while aerial ropeways are to convey
the ores from the co.’s various properties to
central works. A large dam is being con-
structed, and water will be conveyed through
a mile and a half of 4in. pipe to the works.
Britain is in this instance getting in where,
none but the Hun would have looked before
the war.
(“Wild Gat” continued on page 34.)


KAeltcmian
I J \ HIGH-CLASS
JSPEfIALTIES .
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St.. Melbourne.
E. DROWN (8, SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD I
Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
fmn
P!sp»p|joi|)
y 3 N 9Vd IMVHD
CHAMPAGNt
OiariesHeidsiecfc
Reims
WSBMS&
5
PELLiSSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
ALLAN’S
DANCE
ALBUM
N 9 19.
CONTAINS:
THE SECRET” —Waltz Hampton Wood
FAIR ITALY” Varsovianna G. Fetras
FLASH JACK” Polka J. Rolfe
LOVE’S MESSAGE Waltz G. Kingsley
PHANTOM BRIGADE” One Step Clark
FORTY WINKS Schottische 'A.Jones
BR AVE WARKIORS”Mareh H. Kendall
WHISTLING JIM” Dance Characteristic
Harold Lindsay
SUNNY AUSTR ALIA” Waltz T. Andrews
GLORIOUS VICTORY” Two-Step
VERDI WALTZ ” Waltz A. Williams
SONGS OF ANZAC” Lancers A. Adam
Sold by all Music Sellers.
Price, 1/3; posted, 1/5
Violin Part, 1/3; Cornet Part, 1/3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET O. CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQffI, CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
‘> • ,
VZc?fss&tx* ~*ai<3B»." *>■■■
MX^.%
—■’Si
*3©
s«f
-!l>i
«.^si
s-ttaks
S.B.
ium
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron falls - Barron Gorge L -
the wonderful hinterland
ounshme, Palm Trees ,
I Topical Flowers . A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about it
is yours for the asking
/*>// in //ns coupon.■-
Afame
A (/dress
/Ad Dir~ec/or of
Intelligence &Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane. CUJEENSUAJVIX
ts&m
S*SS*fiS2**
*Ci>
W^WA
w%z/6 > /«"' 13%
iPwl ,(31 %
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, August i:>, F.»17. •
My Deak A kini, —
Ex-Governor Strickland owns a handsome
house at Malta, where the family has camped
rill sea trips are safer for the delicate
mother. From Port Said, where the invalid
nearly .died, the party travelled in a warship
—cramped for space, but that was part of
the great adventure for the girls. Father
has gone on to England, while the kinder-
garten has all the excitement of living on
a glorified rock round which ebbs and flows
the tide of submarine war.
Having been hooked into your new Spring
frock, you may, if sufficiently daring, place
upon your head a hat with a crown like an
old belltopper, its wide brim wreathed with
small red or white camellias. This waxy
bloom is to be the rosebuds’ rival this
summer.
It happened in George-street. Billjim,
wearing the returned-man’s colors, was
watching a procession of tram and railway
strikers. “Suppose you'll be taking our
places next!” gibed one of the processionists
as he passed. “Well, it’s more’n you will
do for us,” flashed the reply from the Man
from the Front.
The first night of “Grumpy” brought the
playgoer by motor, cab and old Shanks’s
ponies to the Criterion. A few empty seats
here and there denoted that pilgrims had
either fallen by the way or remained at the
domestic hob. the gallery girl, though
assembled in her might, failed to take charge
of affairs as usual, her exuberant spirits
being tamed by much tramping over hard
pavements. Cyril Maude in black velvet
coat, with a shawl drawn about his
old-man shoulders, owns a small, neat
figure and expressive hands. Dorothy
Cumming’s tine looks were exhibited in some-
thing like cloth of gold as to the skirt, with
a wisp of moonlight on the upper part. This
glittering gown, really tissue, followed the
present ample-skirt fashion. A faint pinky
apricot frock was another fascinating rig-
out. The Sydney girl’s locks are now the
copper-brown tint which is the latest color
to swear by. Betty Murray’s intelligent
eyes sparkle under a fluffy mop of deep
canary.
The audience saw Marie Tempest’s exceed-
ingly attractive back exhibited in the
manager’s box. It was almost bare,
with a drape of exquisite lace that
looked like the work of a gold-spinning
spider. There was also a skirt, but it was
black and immaterial. Grahame Brown —in
ordinary life I fancy he answers to the name
of Bill —and a huge stack of violets were
shrined in the Tempest’s cave. Dr. Stewart
McKay sat between two charmers in raven
drapery over, the way. The Levy diamonds
lit up the stalls. Others in the welcoming
party were Justice Gordon and his little
lady; the Rabetts: the Alien-Lamb contin-
gent ; Potts Point in affluent dress-fronts
and swallow-tails, or with its expansive
bosom loaded with gems; also occasional
oddities in floral evening wraps that looked
like walking flow r er-beds, and Mrs. Spencer
Brunton wrapped in peacock-blue velvet.
Mrs. Roderick Cameron, who was Miss
Lindeman, of Ashfield, and whose pretty
golden top turned the head of male Sydney
when she appeared in the becoming widow’s
weeds which she wore so faithfully for two
years, has met a military gentleman who
has persuaded her to take a second plunge.
His name is Cavandish, and he is a colonel
or thereabouts in a crack English regiment.
When Timothy F. Quinlan, property-
owner and once Speaker of the Westralian
Leg. Assembly, last came this way his eye
fell on the bubbling water-fountains that
have replaced the old street taps and cups.
“Good idea !” said he, and now Perth has 14
of them bubbling to the honor and glory of
Timothy. Which shows that Paul didn’t
have much success when he wrote to Tim
telling him to keep off water.
Justice Heydon’s only son got the Mili-
tary Medal a while ago, and is now a major
in France. His stepmother is the rhyming
lady whose verse has been a steady seller
for the patriotic collection-plate.
The N. S. Wales women have got their
battleplane afloat. Actually it has for some
weeks been flying where it is most wanted.
The Sydney Battleplane Fund advanced £7OO
to the ladies, and thus the winged argument
was hurried into action. Now the'loan has
been repaid, with a bit over.
A few weeks ago Marian Windeyer, a
grand-daughter of the stern old N. S. TV ales
Judge of other days, took a plain ring from
Lieut. J. M. Simpson, in Christ Church, Lan-
caster Gate —which is in London.
Joan Innes-Noad, who went to London
early in the war, and married Lieut; East-
man, of the Dover Garrison, has been having
some exciting times. She has been under
bomb-fire on eight occasions—twice from
Zeps. and six times from aeroplanes. The
last time —in the Folkestone raid she was
out for a walk, and rushed home to find
nurse and baby in the cellar, with fragments
of glass and shrapnel on the bed where the
kiddy had been cooing. As one bomb wrecked
20 houses and killed 10 people, Babs may be
considered lucky.
The “Murkan mail brought a letter from
Sydney violinist Donald Mcßeath. As
you’ll remember, the youngster, having no
foreign hall-mark and no social pull, was
snubbed by some local “critics ’ till John
McCormack took him up and away. Thus
Kreisler heard him, and was so impressed
that he taught him for love. Don, full of
gratitude to the U.S.A., writes with the
fervor of a proselyte. Says he: —
I tried some time ago to enlist in the U.S. Field
Artillery, but was rejected The other day I tried
again—this time with the Canadian Ambulance
Corps, and I have been accepted! We leave for
France
Anyhow, he’s there by now ; and “I’ll write
next from the trenches,” he adds.
About three weeks ago a concert party,
with the beaming giant, Jack Griffiths, in
charge, left town on a fortnight’s experment.
They tapped towns from Moree to Inverell,
and had much fatted lamb killed in their
honor. Nellie Leach, Leah Myers, Albert
Goossens, Lionel Lawson and Vern Barnett
(at the piano) were the joyous strollers. At
Narrabri they struck a waterspout and at
Inverell an enthusiast who sent a 11-pund
note to the management “in grateful memory
of a fine entertainment.” At one country
pub the Happy Family sat round the blazing
logs till 11 p.m. Time, said the landlady, to
go to bed ! And in proof she flung a bene-
diction of cold water on the fire. Lionel
Lawson’s third (and last) appearance on a
Sydney platform since his return from
Europe happened subsequently at the Con-
servatorium. Now he’s concentrating on
wings and air-pilot’s goggles.
The youngsters of Hay district school,
awav out in the saltbush, had the thrill of
their lives the other day, when a big, one-
armed boy in khaki came in, wearing for the
occasion a little bronze cross; and with him
a proud mate, older and more like what they
thought a soldier ought to be. The boy
with the empty sleeve was Private Jackson,
V.C.. come home from the war; his mate,
Sergeant Camden, D.C.M. The roof was
nearly lifted. But even to those goggle-eyed
children of his own Far West Jackson
couldn’t talk; the man he brought in during
that hot time with Fritz had to say the few
words necessary. And then —thrill of thrills !
—the boys in the top class were permitted
to shake hands with “the man who had won
tlie V.C.”
There’s a half-doubt about Melba’s concert
here on August 28. It’s the strike that
casts a temporary ?on the fixture. If that
can be scratched the cash will go to the
Veterans’ Home at La Perouse.
The fluffy-haired
young charmer whose
latest photo I send
you is lima Elliot, a
well-known Sydney
girl whose bird-like
soprano was first
moulded by Madame
Christian. A usually
frosty London critic
wrote the other
week :—•
Incidentally I heard at.
a concert held at Wig-
mare Hall a new colora-
tura singer, Miss lima
Elliot, who ought to go
far, for she has a promis-
ising combination of flu-
ency with precision.
Ilma’s brother, a
local bank-manager,
married a while ago one of the late Alfred
Bennett’s daughters.
The Gonsalez Co. falls to pieces, and Bal-
boni and Cappelli will be out of the fragment
that will struggle on. The tall Belloni—
whose name is often tangled up with that
of the handsome Balboni —remains in the
aviary, where Mrs. de Revers, Miss Russ of
the flashing black eyes, and soprano Gon-
salez will continue as heretofore. As the
tempestuous Scamuzzi is said to have offered
his hand, heart and sonorous baritone to the
keeping of Miss Russ, he continues also to
watch the imperturbable Giovanni Gonsalez’s
baton.
The Cullen lady helped to wash up the
accounts of the Forest Lodge Day Nursery—
a babies’ paradise where the toddler is caged
in airy premises till mother collects him at
the end of her day’s work. The youthful
lion. sec.. Valerie Davenport, read the satis-
factory tidings that subscribers stand as
firmly as ever behind the babies’ haven, in
spite of the octopus pull of war funds.
The only son of Muirhead Collins ( lie’s
the Commonwealth’s official sec. in London)
is marrying a namesake, Esther Collins, a
Birmingham girl. The young man is a cap-
tain in the R.A. and wears the Military t ross.
The first Australian to get the ““freedom”
of the Worshipful Company of Coopers m
old Guildhall is C. 8. Willimott. A way-
back relative of the new “Freeman. and
Liveryman” was a Sir Robert TV illimott
who in 1743 was Lord Mayor of London,
member of the House of Commons, and
Worshipful Master of the Coopers’ Company.
Forceful Grace
Scobie is a daughter
of Robert, M.L.A. for
the Murray and
Bobbie Burns these
16 years past. When
the war started she
was toiling in the
Department of Labor
and Industry. Then
she flung herself into
the tight for con-
scription and re-
cruits, and the Gov-
ernment has lent her
for another three
months to the State
committee w hose
weary job it is to
rake up reinforce-
ments for Billjim.
With one brother killed in France . and
another “‘not heard of” for months in Pales-
tine, only the laws which forbid women to
emulate the Amazons of Russia keep such an
ardent spirit out of khaki. Grace Scobie
has no drawing-room tricks. But behind her
is such transparent sincerity and around her
is such infectious enthusiasm that she has
turned out one. of the most successful re-
cruiting speakers .in the Commonwealth.
Here is the lady as Judith Fletcher sees her.
A line from a friend in Adelaide: —
W. J. Sowden, of our Register, was the first to
cry in the wilderness for official recognition of the
wattle as Australia’s national flower. Twenty-eight
years ago, as president of the A.N.A., Sowden sug-
gested the formation of a Wattle Blossom League.
The beautiful tlyng was duly born, and a banner
was made to wrap around it; then, 10 years later,
Mrs. Clunies-Ross, Mrs. Kettlewell —she was one of
our girls--and J. 11. Maiden, of Sydney, got in
touch with Sowden and, with naturalist A. J. Camp-
bell in Melbourne, founded Wattle Leagues in the
three cities.
It was W. M. Hughes's eldest son, Ernest
Morris, aged 10, who recently got the Mili-
tary Medal in France: There’s a much older
stepson who is known as Hughes, but he is
the first wife’s offspring. She was a widow
with one boy when she began to share Billy’s
uncertain temper.
Journalist and ex-M.L.A. Pat Quinn is
back from the U.S.A., after live years’
absence from his native Cornstalks. He
looks more portly than of old. but blames the
shipboard life and its multitudinous snacks.
Mrs. Tat and only chick Marjory make up
the homing party.
Mark Jeffes, a public servant known
to all the old-time dukes and marchionesses
who patronised Guv’ment House, has just re-
tired. Born in England, he fought as a non.-
coin. in the Zulu War, and fetching up
in N. S. Wales got a job as head-
messenger in Government House, where he
helped their Exes. Loftus, Carrington, Jersey
and Duff carry out their onerous duties. Then,
having mastered the art of dodging diffi-
culties, he passed on to the Navigation De-
partment, and thus completed 35 years of
service with the State.
The Soldiers’ Club is now more or less
dependent on euchre parties, rag-sales and
patriotic shows. A recent wave of sympa-
thy over the State War Council’s refusal to
allow a Violet Day in aid of this haven for
Billjim brought along £llOO from private
subscribers. But it will take a lot more
than that to keep the roof on. So one of
the Girls’ Circles, which give up their week-
ends to pile the soldiers’ plates, will hold a
bazaar on September 14 —in the premises.
By the way, Adelaide’s Cheer-up Club for
khaki lads has just collected £2OOO in the
local Violet Day raid.
Instead of tearing their own or anybody
else’s hair over the interference with their
Christmas-gift parties, some of the Comforts
foragers are eager to lend a hand cleaning
railway carriages, etc., till the strike trouble
is over. Putting a polish on a bit of brass
work or soaping down a window would be
a safety-valve to the feelings of some of these
perfectly furious dames.
Organisers of the big patriotic floral fete
in the Town Hall are thanking their stars
that they mentioned something as far off as
September 11. It’s getting a case of “I saw
it first” so far as next month’s dates are con-
cerned; August is so uncertain that war
workers are fighting shy of the wild animal.
Madeline Clarke, a niece of the late Brun-
ton Stephens, goes off as advance-agent for
Freddie Shipman’s new concert co. The
faith of Shipman in a lady ahead of him was
founded on the success of Mary McFarlane.
who did the talking for “Neptune’s Daugh-
ter.” Madeline has been of late shaking a
pen in Brisbane.
Violinist Millie Gallagher is Mrs. James
Balfe now; and it all happened in a
whisper. The bride went to St. Patrick’s
altar in ivory-tinted plumage, with a touch
of pale pink in her millinery. Cousin Annie
Egan was the attendant damsel, with 11.
Tait to help the Queensland ’groom out of
any difficulties. The cake was cut at Petty’s,
up the hill. ,
Shirley Huxley, a girl with a mop of
titian hair, is getting on with movie work
in the U.S.A. She played parts from small
to medium here in various shows; then, hav-
ing the right type of features, she went
where the heroine talks with her chin, nose
and eyebrows.
The Blinded Soldiers’ Fund gets nearly
£lOO bv the auctioning of Marie Tempest’s
little gold and ivory fan. The lady herself
put the pretty toy up for sale at her 'last-
till-next-time performance in Sydney. Finally
it went home with Mrs. Brunton, who gave
£3O for it.
The new all-over-the-place blouse is a catas-
trophe to the plump. It is designed for a
clotlies-prop figure, and falls in either a soft
fold or a bulge over the hips. Just depends
on the size of the lady inside.
One result of the knitting competitions that
click in every tram and ferry is the biggest
thing in handbags that woman has carried
within recent memory. Made of gorgeous
chintz or floral silk, the pannier hangs by
large metal rings to the owner's arm.
The Exhibition of the Vanishing Bill is
to be hold in the Town Hall at the end of
October. It’s labelled “National Economy,"
and Grace Burrows will turn the handle.
The A.M.C. is going to raid Darling
Point at a garden party in Ascham grounds
about September 15.
Killara’s rolling golf-links will be the
Arcadian background for a village fair in
aid of the War Chest on September S.
Every kind of ye olde rustic festival, includ-
ing a' miniature ’Ampstead ’Eatli.
Wonder how the notion of market squares
for small producers will strike the City
Council? Women have found the Conti-
nental system so helpful at every patriotic
Day that the notion of doing away with the
middleman —in a limited way—anneal's, as
a trade scheme, to housewives. With fruit
and fish at their present prices, Mrs. Hubub
sees a light gleaming in the dark nighf.
Anyhow, she’s going to call her sisters
together to see what comes of it.
The outcry against toy pugs as the
adopted “babes” of wealthy London society
women fell on deaf ears till the tocsin
sounded in August, 1014. Now a French or
Belgian orphan takes Fido’s place. You
remember the Islingtons who reigned over
Maoriland? Their only chick. Joan, has
been doing war-work as a nurse in Rouen.
Lately she took back to London her adopted
orphan—a war-babe born in a French
hospital.
The Royal College of Music (London) is
still simmering with the success* of Lena
Chisholm’s performance in June. A letter
from a fellow student says that “Sir Charles”
— that's Sir Charles Parry, the director—
“was most enthusiastic, and congratulated
the Lismore girl while she was packing up
her fiddle after five recalls.”
Yours affectionately,
VANDOKIAN.


BLACK .„a WHITE
y*£y
■ : ' ~M
■ ■ m i ...
m
■
■
#fePi aj?, §PMI
4 f .
%
S':» '.- -
1
r v ~'^.,v;
2*®*
“THE
■
•fcy-
; «3
*ARDS .
WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.


.r t!!! i I I I 11 : ! I I I I ! I !
<1 chamois vest
AND OTHER SOLDIER NEEDS.
These Vests are splendid acquisition to any kit,
being washable and practically vermin-proof.
Kach garment is cut and finished in Farmer’s best
style, and has Wool Lining. We undertake to des-
patch them to any address at the Front.
PRICE...Made-to-Order, 27/6. Postage, 1/- extra.
Also with better-quality wool lining, 35/-
RCU. Khaki Hemmed Handkerchiefs, f-size.
Price, per dozen 5/9
RCI2. Khaki Service Shirts, strong material,
good washing quality. Price .... 7/6 and 10/6
RCI3. Tan Morocco Leather Money Belts, 2
leather pockets. Price '. 7/6
RCI4. All-tVool Khaki Service Shirts, best make
and finish. Price 18/6
SV D N E V,
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
WE PAY .CARPIAGE.
STOP STOMACH DRUGGING.
NEUTRALISE THE DANGEROUS ACID
WITH A LITTLE MAGNESIA.
Stomach drugging is dangerous. Drugs
deaden the nerves and render them insen-
sible to pain, but pain serves a good purpose
it is nature’s method of indicating that
something is interfering with the smooth
working of the human organism. When the
fault is corrected the pain will cease. Pain
after eating-—heartburn, flatulence, etc etc
usually indicates not that the stomach is
diseased, but that it is troubled by excessive
acidity. The acid irritates and inflames the
delicate lining of the stomach, and so causes
pain. Obviously it is of prime importance
that the cause of this pain should be re-
moved, and to accomplish this vou should
obtain some bisurated magnesia'from your
chemist and < take half a teaspoonful in a
little water immediately after meals This
will instantly neutralise the harmful acid in
your stomach and prevent all possibility of
food fermentation. Drugs do not overcome
this acid—they simply deaden the symptoms
and give a false sense of security. That is
why those who rely on drugs gradually
become worse and worse, until the stomach
it sell becomes actually diseased.— Advt
Good
Appearance
is
The Foundation
of many a
Business flan’s
SUCCESS.
See to it that you are
well equipped.
nr
\ i I
■s>
VQ
■r
"
£
8571 —A Business Suit
in a Large and Choice
Variety of Suitings,
til-
BUCKLEYS SUITS
Give You Some
Little Distinction
at
Distinctly Moderate
Prices.
ORDER BY HAIL.
BUCKLEY"! NIINN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE-
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne. August 13, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.—
The Australian Steeplechase—a tremen-
dous three times round the Caulfield course —
was held on Saturday in spite of rain that
fell in a sheet that stretched from Friday
afternoon until Saturday mid-day. The
fashion-platers crowded out disguised in drab,
dark raincoats and roofed with umbrellas.
The Rajah wore a pale-green macintosh and
splashed in enormqus goloshes. Mrs. Rajah
had sable trimmings to her seal coat, and
her sister Fink was wrapped in black fur.
Both of them wore headgear copied from
Indian military turbans. The Agar Wynnes
looked on. Mrs. Mackinnon wore a postil-
lion hat of shiny straw above her furs. The
Fenner girl sported Spring-like pink roses in
her hat and frisked about the soggy lawn.
Mrs. Monasli was imposing in purple-navy
clothes. Mrs. Lediugham was with Miss
Gorrie, whose father is an important racing
man of Maoriland. Professor Harrison
Moore peered cheerfully at the world over
an enormous grey muffler.
Crowds of misguided women wore their
fashionable yellow-straw hats, which give a
hideous complexion effect on a cold, wet day.
These hats are mostly shiny canary straw, and
the fashion originated in a country where
cream summer dresses were being worn at
the moment.
The G.-G. motored out to watch an after-
noon of military sport at Maribyrnong camp
on Wednesday last week. The Rajah accom-
panied him.
The hockey Donnybrooks on the lawn at
Government House still rage. Doris Black-
wood got a black eye last week.
Merrick Boyd, who dabbled with local clay
and fashioned it into artistic pottery, has
joined the Flying Corps and is now training
at Point Cook. Merrick is a brother of
artist Pen Boyd, who ’listed very early in
the war.
Mrs. Downes is back in Melbourne looking
a wreck. She was' Doris Robb before she mar-
ried Colonel Rupert Downes, and there were
rejoicings when she managed to get leave to
visit her husband at Cairo for six weeks.
But by bad luck she started home in the
Mongolia, and had a horrible 23 hours in
an open boat which had so bad a time that
two of the crew died. Of course Mrs. Downes
was ill from shock and exposure ; and things
weren’t improved by the news that awaited
her of the death of her brother Jack, killed
in France.
Colonel Syd Sands and his wife, over from
Sydney, are settled down at a flat at Lister
House for a time. The Colonel had a busy
time in the first act of the war and knows
how to keep Huns safe. He once genthelped
for G.-G. Northcote, and was also A.D.C. to
Kitchener when the big chief was in Aus-
tralia.
“Myers’s Girls” gave a masked ball in the
Town Hall last week to help the Comforts
Fund of the Mayoress’s League. It was a
specially well-organised affair, and the girls
were extremely smart; the dressing “knocked
spots” off the average Sassiety show. About
250 returned soldiers rolled up, so partners
were plentiful.
To help the Belgian Wounded Soldiers a
picture-theatre party is being engineered at
the Palace Theatre, Glenferrie, by a few
Hawthorn women. Mrs. De Bavay, .Mrs.
Merritt and Mrs. Dodd are chief engineers,
and Monday, August 27. is the date.
Governor Stanley and Italian Consul Eles
were the guests of the Savage Club on
Saturday evening at a smoke concert in aid
of the Italian Red Cross. A number of
Savages were permitted to sing and tell
stories, and the second part of the corroboree
was given over to the Savage Christy Min-
strels, who had been well drilled by Savage
Bert Bailey. Bailey himself was inter-
locutor and Bertie Zelman so far forgot his
dignity as conductor of the Philharmonic
Society as to blacken his poetic face and
appear as end-man. His handling of the
tambo was a convincing tribute to the value
of a musical education. Freddie Steele, who
only a week or two ago was Melba’s accom-
panist, and Alf Weston-Pett were among
other musical lights who applied burnt cork
to the faces which concert-goers are accus-
tomed to see shining above immaculate shirt-
fronts.
The backers of the L.M.P. League are evi-
dently satisfied with the way its affairs are
managed, since they have re-elected Beatrice
Henty as superintendent and Margaret
Littlejohn as sec. for the new financial year,
while the executive contains the names of 21
proved battlers in the cause of Billjim—all
of them Mrs. except Miss Byron Moore.
Finances are flourishing, though there will be a
heavy European-winter drain on the league’s
resources. Outlay for the year (£34,000)
exceeded receipts by a few hundreds, but the
cash available at the outset was £14,500.
So there’s £14,000 still in hand, and three
times as much will be needed before Spring-
time again dries the mud in France.
Professor Baldwin Spencer has just been
intoning the returns of Ye Olde English
Fay re, which happened in June. There is
great jealousy between stallholders over the
sectional returns, but the grand total (£4000)
reads like a benediction.
Australia’s very latest woman novelist is
the dressy little Norman Brookes lady,
who before her marriage was one of the
wealthy Emmertons. When her tennis-play-
ing hubby went to Egypt to help straighten
out the Red Cross tangle she accompanied
him, and while there spent her spare time
writing a novel, “Broken Idols,” which has
now been published in England. It deals
with Egypt during the Gallipoli campaign,
and contains some descriptive writing of
quite unexpected quality.
Mrs. Leibner is making her appearance on
the social tracks again with a nicely-mended
nose. The poor lady had a tumble in her
Cliveden flat and broke a bone.
It reminds me of what beautiful Mrs.
Maesmore Morris used to tell about her
lovely nose. She said she tumbled down-
stairs when she was a seven-year-old in the
excitement of a children’s party she was
giving. Her poor little nose was broken, and
her father (Dr. Willmott) moulded the soft
little member —which had been plump and
retrousse —into the exquisite aristocratic
shape that we all admired.
Many pure-bred yelpers that were ex-
pected won’t be able to get across to the Mel-
bourne Dog Show if industrial peace isn’t
soon declared. This year the Ladies’ Kennel
Club chipped in with the Victorian Poultry
and Dog Association, and all the Fidos are
due to howl together at the Exhibition.
Lady Adelaide’s memoirs :
Lieut. R. IT. Reid, who has been with the
R.F.A. in France for the last 15 months, arrived on
short leave on Saturday—shorter by reason of the
bad link that led him to travel by the Mongolia.
He brought news of a good many S. Australians.
Reid says that Collier Cudmore, who has been in-
valided with a “leg” for longer than he likes, hoped
soon to be again at the Front; that Tom Cheadle,
famous as a golfer in pre-war days, is convalescing
in London; and that Capt. Sandford, M.C., is in
France instructing in trench-mortar work.
The agitation for a consumptive sanatorium in the
North for returned soldiers looks as if it were going
to crystallise into fact. The Government has declared
its intention of starting the institution at the
“earliest possible moment.”
Australia Day money is still coming in. Little
Ivapunda raised over £3OOO by its local Queen com-
petition. The Pastoralists’ Queen, Mrs. Kidman,
topped the poll, with Mrs. H. H. Dutton, as Queen
of Gardens, a close second, and one of the Shannon
clan third.
Lieut. H. W. Spicer, a grandson of the late
Edward Spicer, who was at Cambridge when war
broke out and promptly enlisted, has had his M.A.
degree conferred upon him. As he is still at the
Front, the ceremonial was gone through by proxy.
Melba left us without singing so much as a note!
The paintings that Edwin Smith, knight, lent to
the Kensington and Norwood Institute he has now
permanently handed over to that fortunate body.
This is a record year for birds. Teal, widgen and
black duck are thick at the Reedbeds, within five
miles of the Adelaide G.P.Q., and there are
more magpies and blue cranes than there have been
for years; even white cranes are back after an
absence of 25 or 30 years. Gay feathers are every-
where in the park lands, and have fluttered right into
the strip of garden that runs up one side of North
Terrace.
The Governor and Mr. Winser have gone on a
week’s visit to Federal Government House. A
month’s trip to Queensland .had been planned, but
presumably that’s off till local politics have settled
themselves.
There’s trouble in the Returned Soldiers and
Sailors’ Association. The secretary, A. E. Tait, has
resigned, after expressing his opinion that Col. Weir,
president, and other members of the committee
should make way for men who by reason of the
fact that they are not in the employ of either the
State or the Federal Government, would have a free
hand. There has been friction between the State
Government and the R.S.A. almost since the latter
was started, but in spite of that the R.S.A. has made
much headway. Members decided against the secre-
tary’s proposal.
The Bach Society showed what could be done in
unaccompanied part-singing at its concert in the
Town Hall on Friday, and a proud man was Dr.
Harold Davies, to whom the creditable performance
was due. The hall was packed, Lady Galway and
Miss Macaulay being included in the throng.
Toorak’s pet politician Norman Bayles
will soon be plucking out his buttonhole of
cornflowers and substituting one of orange-
blossom. His engagement is announced to
Mrs. H. Balfour Neill, who, in unwedded
state, was Roma James, daughter of the
late Dr, James, of Collins-street. She is a
smart little person with a taste for dress, a
pretty singihg voice that Melba has polished,
and good iooks of the Marie Tempest type.
Bride and bridegroom are both taking their
second dive into the sea of matrimony, and
experience is such a help, isn’t it ?
The Harry Rieketsons’ youngest girl,
Doris Valdene, has cabled that she and Naval-
Lieut. Eric de Mowbray are married. Ihe
knot was tied in Venice.
Eileen Sparks, the graceful young woman
who is -Too Bascom’s fancy in ‘Turn to the
Right,” has been taken into custody by
A. L. Pearce, who was lately “Peg o * My
Heart’s” not-so-heavy villain. Eileen had
only a hurried honeymoon, for her man was
whisked away to America with E. J. Bait
and told to improve his education as a pro-
ducer.
Melba was standing in the Conservatorium
room scattering commands like poultry-feed
among the staff. She had just decided to have
a students’ concert. “We’ll have it in a
fortnight,” said the autocrat crisply. (Eye-
brow play and stifled groans from the staff.)
“And don’t rush me with girls. Those who
sang in opera need not sing again. Stella
can sing. What will she sing?” Hurried
suggestion here from Fritz Hart. “Em
very ambitious! Anyhow, see that she does
it well. Everything must be good—a little
of it and good !” Interlude while a,n accom-
panist, who has been battling with influenza,
does a half-faint. Melba begins to count
out the programme items. “Short! Cut it
down short—short — short! Not a minute
over 10 o’clock, mind!” With a cheerful
little chuckle : “I’ve made a treaty with the
Governor-General never to drag him to a
concert that will be later than 10. lie’s
coming to this!” Then she threw off her
velvet working-jacket and two or three ador-
ing females buttoned her into a light motor-
wrap while she rapped out a few terse direc-
tions to a panting secretary regarding her
movements in the next 48 hours. It was
great fun —for the onlooker.
Millie Macaw, soprano, will launch a fine
programme at the Playhouse on August 23.
It is to help the Hennessy dame’s fund for
the boys in the trenches. Mrs. Oswald Syme
and Vere and Bert Baillieu are plotting a
tableau, the Melba pupils will sing, and
Daisy Gove, Lorna Reid and Leslie Page
will help with light-opera stuff.
Melba is giving her students’ concert on
August 21 for the Italian Red Cross. A
business-like committee met at the Town
Hall last Tuesday, when manager Leslie
Bruford and chairwoman Mrs. Dyer tried
to handle a restless bunch of women. Mrs.
Wiseher, Mrs. Fritz Hart and Miss Lucy
Rowe are helping. Melba took £2O worth of
tickets herself to give the old ’bus a start.
It looks as though Melba will hit Sydney
again during a striked Last time she did the
trip the coal-miners were jibbing. As usual she
was travelling with a mountain of luggage
and couldn’t get the accommodation she had
reserved on the N. S. Wales side. So she
sat all night on top of her parcels, like Im-
patience on a monument. This time she’ll
motor over if the trouble continues.
The Board of Management of the Lady
Northcote Permanent Orchestra Trust Fund
(stop here for refreshments) has roused
itself from its long sleep and noticed that
music is booming in Melbourne. It is now
hurrying about in dressing-gown and slippers
arranging a concert for August 18 in the
Town Hall. The G.-G. and Lady Helen will
be there, and Melba has booked seats for a
large party.
Melba motored from Coombe Cottage to
Sorrento the other day to lay a church foun-
dation-stone for her friend the vicar. Lady
Susan, George Armstrong and his wife and
as many others as the energetic singer could
pack into a couple of motor-cars accom-
panied.
In “The Red Widow” Florence Young
wears amazing gowns that scintillate frost-
ily. A black-jet dream glitters like a chan-
delier, and is clamped bn by diamond studs
around the chest. Another sparkler made of
silver sequins on silver net hangs over a red
skirt with a froth of white fur to weight it
down. Florence frivols in red shoes and
stockings with quite a lot of red ankle show-
ing. In the chief ballet the girls are white-
and-fur trimmed, and the girl-boys are
clothed tightly in green. The premiere
dancer is even thinner than her lean com-
panions, and as she wears enormous red
boots she calls up fond memories of Dick
Whittington’s cat. Minnie Love wears a
white dress like a dozen umbrellas gone mad
and formed into a union.
Charlie Tait —the “Allan’s” representative
among the Brethren—-is off to America pre-
sently with his pretty little wife. She had
a big farewell party on Friday last week,
and trained for Sydney next day with her
husband. They cross the Pacific one boat
ahead of Melba.
Connie Ediss has decided to stay in Aus-
tralia, being persuaded thereto by the J.C.W.
chiefs. Melbourne, which gave the pi llm .
actress farewell parties and presents Iff !
receive her with open arms again. ’ Wlll
Margaret Sutcliffe, now rehearsing i,
f or tbe p >ert Bailey Shakspearean
a n ; ece G f B G b er t Tompsitt, of Rocke t D ’ 1s
anc j (j 0 . Uncle, who is in EiisdanT 111
present, gave his niece a London send-off
qjj f r i e nd Jennie Opie has hW™ •
Alelbonrne from Adelaide. Jennie
] usc j olis figure and deep contralto wh !
many a panto, march of yesteryear is° n
interested in the boards, but more i n tZ
hoarders.
Mayor Wynne, of Kew, lately won a i;„
turkey in a Red Cross raffle. lie eirHori u
b ; rd h ome j n a bag, and then was insnil a
to higher B ed Cross efforts. Instead”^
i < j]]j ll g an( j eating the fatted prize he Umi
p ie bird again, and Prime Minister
had the winning ticket. Presently the rv lt !f
monwealth motor-car called round, and th
despairing turkey was carried off’ never t'
| )e seen again.
Young llai . o]d Herbert, who follows
fuUy iu the artistic footsteps of L ‘‘
Streeton< is to hol{l an exhibition V !
paintings at the Fine Art Galleries on tl, S
14th i-i erbert i s a Ballarat bov- !! ?
structor at the local School of Yrts ’
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
~still going strong
n
h,
H
\2
' r-
‘ It’s never too late to mend.’
That specially applies to the
‘Johnnie Walker.
who does not call for
JOHN
WALKER k
SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky
Dtstit.lers, KILMARNOCK, Scoti.akd


P. & o.
Royal Mail Steamers
SERVICE DISCONTINUED FOR THE PRESENT
RESUMPTION WILL BE NOTIFIED
IN DUE COURSE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
el. City 6321. v Agents, 63 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
The TOP-N OTCH "ScotcK
V’ > _ «s
f yir “S aytohL* MmoW*
1 <
p
id**
ABORIGIN
ALITES
“Tarlton-R.”: “E.A.C.” (B. 12/7/’l7)
needn't buzz so loudly over his record honey take
from a bush-hive. On the southern slopes of the
Australian Alps beautiful white combs up to Bft.
in length have been taken from the descendants of
the black bees landed in the Mother State by Captain
Wallace (ship Isabella) in 1822. But the professional
apiarist frequently harvests 3601 b. per hive, not the
bee-juice of the bushman, but ripened nectar. One
Vic. hive yielded 8241 b. of clear honey, and even
this has been beaten by a N. S. Wales apiary.
“Bitten”: Re “H.\.E.’s” note concerning
black cockatoos as barometers. - The devilish row
they kick up occasionally is taken as a sure sign by
bushmen out West (especially near Surat and the
surrounding districts) that rough weather’s on the
way. About four miles from Governor’s Rock one
afternoon a large flock of white cockatoos, in an
adjacent scrub, began to raise a shindy. It was
evidently a signal, for presently a mob of black
cookies flew over. An hour or so later we got the
forerunner of a hailstorm. Those “black” birds
were of the rare variety mentioned by “H.V.E.,”
having a broad band of vermilion red about 4in. from
the tip of the tail and underneath. By the way,
black cockatoos are exceptionally fierce—more so
than the white. If you want to prove that statement,
try to finish off a wounded bird while his mate’s
near, then see who’s the casualty.
“Tarlton-R.”: Yon Mueller specified the
manna-gum (/'.'. vimalis) as the sole eucalypt produc-
ing melitose manna; but he lacked the usual thorough-
ness of the German, or, perhaps, did not live long
"enough to discover that other species yield the sweet
substance, e.g. peppermint (E. amygdalina), red-gum
(E. rostrata), white ironbark (E. lencoxylon), South
Aus. white-gum (E. paniculate) and apple-box (E.
stuartiana) . I have watched the liquid falling like
rain from an apple-box tree and covering the ground
with a coating that soon set into a hard white mass.
Psyllids are the cause of leaf manna or “lerp,” and
coccids surround themselves with manna; but the
manna of the British Pharmacopoeia is gathered from
the ash and is quite distinct from the manna of the
Australian bush. Ash manna comes from the south
of Europe.
“Montalex”: Sirenia, the name of the
order of that strange beast, the dugong, was suggested
by the mermaid-myth. In Malayan river-
estuaries I have often seen the animal
raising itself to reach herbage on the
bank; and, as the female —besides hav-
ing two well-developed pectoral mammae
—has a way of holding her baby under
one flipper, her frontal appearance, at a
sufficient distance, is decidedly suggestive
of a half-submerged woman. Anatom-
ically akin to the hoofed animals, the
Sirenia are strictly vegetable-feeders, and
are never found far from the sea-margins
which provide their diet of
algae and water-grasses. Only
a single young one is produced
at a birth, and the dam’s affec-
tion is so strong that to cap-
ture the offspring is to capture
also the mother. The flesh of
the Indonesian species—highly
valued by the Malays—tasted
to me like a combination of
pork and mutton. The skin,
half an inch thick, can be ren-
dered down into a kind of
gelatine, and the oil—-12 gal-
lons or so from a lOcwt. ani-
mal—is often the “cod-liver
oil” of commerce.
“Hay”: “Sarto's” (B. 12/7/’l7) army of
milky-white gossamers that recently descended upon
Southern Riverina was composed of the silk spun by
a native silkworm, which feeds on a fine-leaved broom
bush that grows in various parts of Centralia. This
shrub, which the blacks call boonti, used to be very
plentiful about Lake Frome (S.A.). I have seen
great patches of it hung all over with the gossamer
webs and infested with silkworms and other cater-
pillars. It is from the roots of the boonti that
Binghi collects his favorite root-boring grub. When
the wind blows steadily from the north-west the
webs are caught up and carried away, and as this
wind often continues for a considerable time the
fibres float very long distances before they settle
down. “Sarto’s” oldest inhabitant was quite correct
in predicting rain to follow the visitation. Good
falls of rain are usual in the interior after these
steady north-west winds. Probably the moisture in
the air releases the silk from the twigs.
THE ART OF WAR.
SERGEANT-MAJOR (to timid-looking soldier):
"Well suppose you’re up against two
big Germans , so. You drive your
bayonet into No. 1 German. Then
you bang the second one in the jaw
with the butt-end of your rifle. Under-
stand?”
"Yes, sir; but suppose the first one took me
rifle away, wot then?”
"Oh. then — why. then, you wait for a
blanky miracle!”
AFTER THE ACCIDENT.
PRINCIPAL OF BOARDING-SCHOOL : “Miss
Eileen, you will lose ten murks in de-
portment!”
E.S.S.”: Which are the 12 best bush
songsters? I’ve heard the subject discussed round
many a camp-fire, and lifelong friends spill each
other’s blood over it. Which is not surprising, for
Australia has nearly 500 song-birds. Britain, by
the way, has only 89, including visitors, and her
territory being small it is comparatively easy to
judge and place the competitors according to the
quality of their songs, whether" joyous, sad or pas-
sionate, for strength and melody and for the effect
on human emotions. Anyhow, this Australian choir
can challenge anything that’s got feathers: butcher -
bird, magpie, grey shrike-thrush,
golden-breasted whistler (also
called white-throated thick-head),
reed-warbler, brown song-lark
(commonly called Australian sky-
lark), bush-lark (or corn-bird),
fig-bird, white-shouldered cater-
pillar-eater (Lalage tricolor),
blood-bird (or sanguineous honey-
eater), native canary (or white-
throated fly-eater) and the red-
throat (Sericornis brunnea).
The objectionable thing about the
bunch is the awful names that
most of them have been saddled
with. As our feathered minstrels
are scattered over , a huge con-
tinent, the dwellers in almost
every large district have their
own favorites. Many of the
sweetest singers are shy scrub-
haunters, only heard by a for-
tunate few. They disappear with
the clearing of the scrubs.
Numerous forest-singers likewise
retreat before the advance of
settlement, not always because
their old haunts arc stripped of
trees, but because their beauty and usefulness and
their gladsome notes are not appreciated by the fool
with a gun.
* , A
‘‘ Dac " : If “ M( ' Lin '” ia/7/’IT) will
read my sermon on ant-bed material again, he will
find that I dont dispute the claim of that commodity
to be the bushman’s substitute for cement; but I
stiH dispute “Melos’s"’ statement that white ants’
(tenmtes ) nests can be used for ovens, barn-floors,
etc. All the white-ants’ nests that 1 have come
across have been made of a material resembling
wooden honeycomb, which burns readily, so that the
likely boThVw” * ‘“ h *” OV " n *“ M
I hil Anthus : The observations of <*r
t\ hare (15. 14/6/17) on the melody of th
throated flyeater are about right, but he • Y ' V “ ito '
interring that this little musician
south o’ Sydney as residential quarters iT av °''
plaintive trilling melodv freely enoe h hear the
ti-tree gullies of Southern Queensland C thc
nearly so frequently as I did in the k„u * llot
of Vic. The curious fact is that the , cou " tr )'
unobtrusive white-throat has only thrice if.. but
ally” recorded from Vic. ; evidently it .«!!"
to the locality 1 mention, and ornithologists h ■
cha need to wander that way. The prize YIY
this engaging family, however, is the sing^Y o '
eater, an unpretentious grey sprite who never 1 "
far from the mangroves and fig-trees of Ttrio, rays
is locally known as the Moreton Bay
dentally, can anyone supply the derivation of c
gone, the generic name of this family of ham, • t
tralians? ” 1 p - v kw-
* * *
“ W ” : How many cows can be* flunk
speyed in a day of nine hours, the man doing w
own opening up and stitching? A cobber of L!
an otherwise truthful man, says that he a
220, and lost but two out of the lot. On Hamilt
Mac hay, 1 saw old Donald Mclntosh do 05 in a ,
of eight hours, and I thought he worked quickly '
“E. 11.” : Westralia is the home of a quaint
member of the laughing-jack or dacelo (land king
fisher). It resembles the kookaburra, but it b
more and deeper blue on the wing coverts and
blunter beak. The bird inhabits (inter alia) drought*
stricken country, which perhaps accounts f or th'
fact that it doesn’t laugh, but croaks hoarse,
instead. Like cousin Jack of the east coast h
goes nap on white grub's, worms, small lizards’J
mice.
* * *
C.C.P.”: Any Abo.-readers aware that
the shell-fish Donax deltoideus, commonly called
“ugari” in Southern Queensland, seem gifted with
intellect or reasoning powers? They have been
observed on the ocean beach on Fraser or Great
Sandy Island acting as though they knew a thing or
two, and a man of science tells me that these antic*
have not before been placed on record. Normally
these little creatures lie buried some two or three
inches under the sand, but when the tide is rising
and a breaker is just about to strike their resting
place, the smooth surface of the sand is suddenly
disturbed by perhaps thousands of ugari rising It
is a most curious sight. They force themselves up at
least three-parts out of the sand by means of what
is really a foot, but which one would naturally think
of as a tongue. Then the breaker strikes them and
washes them further up the beach. When the force
of the wave is spent, each mollusc sticks its foot into
the sand, and, with the help of the rushing back-
wash, buries itself. Thus they prevent themselves
being washed outwards again. This is how they
travel. Every day the waves do not come from the
ALWAYS A GENTLEMAN.
HIS WIFE: "You beastly old reprobate! I
wouldn't bother going to your funeral
if you died to-morrow!”
HE (tearfully): “Shay not so, m'dear (his).
Now if you (hie) died to-morrowsh, I’d
go t' yours (hie) wizh th’ greatesh
pleashure!”
same direction, so they can also by degrees get
north or south (say). When the tide is going out
they do not lift themeselves above the sand until
the backwash is rushing back into the sea. Immedi-
ately the wave has spent itself is in this case the
time the cute little beggars arise, and the backwash
carries them back to about where the succeeding
wave meets it, when they dig in. The sight can he
seen frequently on thc ocean beach, but not every
day, as apparently the wa-wongs, as thc local blacks
cull them, are sometimes content to travel more
slowly probably when in a good feeding patch.
Their food is the lowest form of plant life, the scum
on the beach surface. The particles are secured by
straining from the water, as the animal sucks it in
and ejects it through its so-called siphon.
(Continued ou paye 24.)
THE WONDER-WOMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were camp-mates on the rivers,
We were track-mates on the plains;
We were linked by love together,
We were bound by more than chains ;
We were lovers of the Open,
We were rovers of the Wild ;
We were rangers of the forest
And the green ways undefiled.
We were wooers of one mistress,
And we gave her love for love —
She who dwells within the pine-trees
And the clouded heights above;
She whose sweet, enduring beauty
Time nor Trouble ever mars,
She the mother of the star-flower
And the parent of the stars.
She is land and sky and ocean,
She is wind and rain and dew,
She is earth and air and heaven,
Ever old and ever new ;
She is dawn and noon and sunset,
And she lights the moon and sun—
She the fountain of all lustres,
She the many-visioned one.
In the warbling bird we heard her.
In the whisper of the breeze,
In the chant of marching waters,
In the rustle of the trees ;
In the turmoil of the tempest,
In the hushed voice of the calm,
In the crash of broken billows,
In the sea’s eternal psalm.
Yet her many-sided beauty
Was elusive as a dream—•
Now a song and now a murmur,
Now a splendor, now a gleam ;
And such love grew big within us
That we could not sleep nor rest,
Till we held her, held all Nature,
Mouth to mouth and breast to breast.
And by many lonely camp-fires,
With the watching stars above,
Mulga-red and red as roses
Burned the passion of our love ;
And the thoughtful trees beheld us,
As we yearned with open arms,
Just to hold her, just to fold her,
Just to clasp her in our arms.
Did she pity us, I wonder?
Did she take embodiment
In the slim, white wonder-woman —
Song and color, grace and scent?
Did she make her presence human,
Did her splendors crystallise
In the semblance of that woman.
In that woman’s glowing guise?
Had she charged one slender vessel
With her wonders for our sake,
Hueing her with all her color
As the sunset hues the lake?
Nay, I know not; but that vision
Made my blood run fierce and fresh,
And red passion called to passion,
And the flesh cried out to flesh.
We were camp-mates of the Open,
But the woman came between
With her roses of the sunset
And her sea-by-moonlight sheen ;
We were rangers of the forest,
We were ever mate and mate —
But the woman stood anigh us,
And our love was turned to hate.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The “David Jones”
Wardrobe Trunk
£7j7l-
THE PERFECT HOLDALL.
fe'K /
In addition to being invaluable as a portable wardrobe in miniature,
the “David Jones” Wardrobe Trunk possesses the added facilities
of drawers divided into compartments for holding articles of all
sizes.
Made of 3-ply Veneer, covered best-quality maroon hard fibre,
reinforced throughout, strengthened with cold-rolled steel, and hand-
ri vetted. Fitted sliding top frame, assortment of hangers, 3 drawers
and soiled-linen bag. Equally adaptable for men’s or women’s
wearing apparel. Cabin size, 30 x 22 x 154 inches. £7 /7/-
The “Innovation” Wardrobe Trunk, size 41 x 21 x 10 inches —
£l2/12/-
IT'c Pag Carriage.
DAVID JONES
• OPP. G.P.O.
LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Judhpore Riding Trousers, Breeches,
Working Trousers, etc.
Leather Tweed Work-
ing Trousers. —In DtRK-
GREY effects. Holeproof and
pract ica 11y indestructible.
Made with Denim pockets;
Riveted Buttons, and non-split-
ting seat seam. Sizes 3 to 7.
Price 15)6.
Cross sizes and Stockman’s
Cut for Riding,
15/6
Australian Tweed
Trousers. Splendidly
tailored in hard-wearing Dark
and Medium Grey All-Wool
Tweeds. Made with side
pockets; cuff bottoms. Sizes
12/6, 13/6,15,6.
C2l.—Judhpore Riding
Trousers. Ready-to-wear.
In hard-wearing Garbinette of
dark Stone shade. Exact in
style to illustration, with Fob
and Cross Pockets. Belt loops
at sides. This popular style
combines the design of Riding-
Breeches and Trousers —thus
dispensing with the wearing
of Leggings. Sizes 3 to 7.
15/6.
!
u
C2O
CZI
C2o. — Riding Breeches —Tailored to Order. —In Khaki Drill, 21/-; Khaki Drill
Cord or Canton Mole, 27/6; Whipcord, Bedford Cord, 4 0/- (Self-strapped, 5/- extia ,
Buckskin strapped, 13/6 extra).
C2l. Judhpores Tailored to Order. In lvhaki Drill, 21/-; Canton Moleskin,
27/6; Mole or Khaki Drill Cord, 27/6; West of England Saddle Tweed and White or Cream
Bedford Cord, 45/- (Self-strapped, 5/- extra; Buckskin-strapped, 13/6 extra).
Riding Trousers —Tailored to Order. —In Khaki Drill, 15/6; Khaki Drill Cord,
18/6; Canton Mole, 21/-; Twist Tweeds, 32/6; Bedford Cord, 35/- (Self-strapped, 5/-
extra; Buckskin-strapped, 13/6 extra).
c
Ask for FREE SAMPLES, TAPE & CHART.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
MELBOURNE.
Read what Bert Le Blanc and Jake Mack,
whose l'un Factory is working overtime at
the National Theatre, hare to sag about
HEENZO
“sv>n “)i« Ti*D‘p rsr\ in?
Tis) PK “IKS “tV'2 N". 'l’t'll
ptf IW2 KT p 3^ 1 J wv '-‘I I
vtf rs .*pv*rVp u?2in?
rs '>,Tip fSP
TpO '1 “Htp
DN li< 'UK2. Wfl
”! N-P SH jypSSSD
IPP Kt Wtl C-'PT’Vp
-)« l‘« TTI BK 1315 SI?
-K sen 'k ri'PEsti
“op sr )Tpm p?
hi srn dpi st iTyp
t]K as-.s-'p rtfw
TPP |K hews' essence
'Uours «i/ Ijuhluh.
sVir %«>
M
tc*vi
H£/
ttlucli/
More Praise
... for ...
HEENZO
(Regd. name for Hean’s Essence)
The Great Money-saving
Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
Croup, Catarrh,
And other Chest and
Throat Troubles.
JAKE MACK.
BERT LE BLANC.
it may t. impassible to Many "& B°Z SLd^IJrtSSLSSi & t!TMo a 2
STOSST *«-*«»»»!«>*“«*« .<*. «•** «"<*>“«* HIsI4NZO
(H can's Essence) ever penned. That is claiming much, considering that
Over 5000 Other Users of HEENZO
„ TT>irrri y.y V a»v THFV HAVE FOUND IT THE BEST REMEDY THEY EVER TRIED FOR ASTHMA,
HcJ™™S.CTS“wH!opiNMO€<iH, CATARRH, AND SORE THROATS.
BROM Hills, y ’ . for Hean’s Essence) DOES NOT CONTAIN ANY PAREGORIC, LAUD-
VNrVr OR* HARMFUL OPIUM DRUGS makes it a thoroughly safe remedy for infants as well as for adults.
movi. v <\Vl\<; FEATURE OF HEENZO places it in a class by itself as a household remedy. Each bottle,
THE MONEY-SAVING lEAlLKftur « i directions printed on the label, at once produces a pint of
——-•* lMst 12s -
Should Be Kept IN EVERY HOME.
r ,„ „ ( i () no t reouire a family supply of cough mixture. For their convenience, HEENZO
COUGH^ dSmONDsTJ now Available. They are lozenges medicated with HEENZO, and are packed in tins that conveniently
tit into vest pocket or handbag, liice Is. pei tin. . .
If any difficulty is experienced in obtaining HEENZO from your Chemist or Store, send direct to
G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
and your order will be tilled per return mail.


MEGGITT'S
LINSEED OIIMEW
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladicr recommend them. Re sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
/AEG
PAR
-
>fe
%
m
,
wo>w
i
4#
FARMERS!
Read what MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL
has done for Mr. A. Schmidt.
Linseed Oil
Jxe Linseed Meal.
. , 1 to Cribb & Foote,
Ipswich, for 201 b. bag. I fed 1G calves on it for
8 days in separated milk, and I found such an improve-
inent on the calves that I sent for 1001 b. bag and fed
S calves 2o days. The result was wonderful. I find
blood scours can be cured in 2 days with the Meal. T
mean calves getting scours from separated milk witli-
-01 ! n * n f lam awful] y sorry not knowing such
meal existed, or I should i ■, n s
1 “ *-oa.v. m dozen” rf eVvesZ"to
mlggitt ltd.,
_and Oil Meal Manufacturers. 2ft street, «£dney, N.S.W.
y
“Überin” : Urge “Nick Bottom,” who
despises “E.S.S.’s” statement that the butcher-bird
can beat the magpie at singing, to come over here
to Goomalling-Cowcowing (W.A.), and listen. I
used to place Maggie in front till 1 came to this
part, but. now I reckon that she is only fit to gather
straws for Jack’s nest. The butcher, a black-and-
white sleek bird of the kingfisher species, has not
only flute notes but organ notes, and he sings, not
disjointedly, not for minutes, but often by the half-
hour at a stretch, and lie can and does so in fog
and rain when Maggie is silent. It is a treat to
hear him at his song in a dense fog that may last
till near mid-day. Many of Jack’s strong high notes
seem ventriloquial, for the\ r sound quite close when
he is at least a quarter of a mile off. Also, Ids
range of notes is far in excess of Maggie’s. When
it is hot weather .lack will croon in the morning,
musically, but so low that one can hardly hear him
at a dozen yards. It is then that he gets on to the
tremolo. ITe has a couple of slightly harsh notes
when startled ; and he can laugh, especially at
night, something like a half-grown girl tickled till
hysterical. Finally, he is a better mouse-catcher
than Mag.
“Ida D.” : llow about this for a loug-lived
pony? Forty-two was his vouched-for age, and he
was ridden and driven up to a few years ago. Since
then lie had lived in open paddocks, with very little
shelter and what feed he could pick up. He was
covered with long shaggy whiskers and a venerable
air. His funeral took place yesterday.'
“Dominie Sampson”: “Van P.” (B.
19/7/’l7) asks for a dictionary to Standardise the
spelling of bush names, of which lie instances a
number spelt, in his opinion, wrongly. The spelling
of native names by white folk must necessarily be
on phonetic lines, and that makes for considerable
variation. While this is so I most strenuously pro-
test against the not phonetically wrong but utterly
misleading spellings which I have often come across.
Two occur to me just now. “Tea-tree” for “ti-tree.”
“She-oak” for “she-oke.” Anything in the tree line
more unlike the tea plant than the ti-tree, or more
unlike the oak than the she-oke, has still to be found.
* * * -X-
-“Bung” : Recent Abo.-writers have not
mentioned all the uses to which ant-hills have been'
put. When my old bush cobbers, Amby and Bob,
used to supply their camp with meat , which they had
“lifted,” they would cross-cut the cap off the handi-
est abandoned ant-hill, scoop out a hole, line the
interior with the hide, and salt down the beef
therein. Then the}' would replace the cap, throw
a few buckets of water over it to wash out the saw-
track, and feel secure. A policeman once, after a
hunt among their belongings for traces of a fat
bullock, smoked a pipe of good-fellowship with them
seated on their ant-hill beef-cask.
SCARED HIM.
CORPORAL (expecting order to charge) :
“Come on, there, hop up and get ter the
cows!”
BILL (wakened from a doze): “Cripes, yer
give me a turn! When I heard yer say
cows T thought I was hack home and
late for the milkin'."
“C.” : Manna, according to Froggatt, Gov-
ernment entomologist in the Ma State, is composed
of millions of the larvae of insects of the genus
Spondyliaspis, which often encrust the' foliage of the
eucalypts to such an extensive degree that the
blacks in the old days in the Mallee of Victoria and
South Aus. had regular harvests of the sugary-sweet
immature insects. In Queensland a favorite tree for
them is the coolabah.
NO CHANCE.
ANXIOUS SECOND: “Use yer feet, Bill; use yer feet.”
BILL ( longingly ): “Cor'sir nth. so I would, if the referee wasn't Toolin'.”
“Billy T.”: A relation of mine utterly
worn out by the strain of running up columns in a
Flinders-lane warehouse was shooed into the country
by the doctor for rest and change. A neighbor
recommended Haynes’s place at Peafield, where one
might enjoy the benefits of a high climate, four
beautiful views, fresh milk, new eggs, unquestionable
bacon and a mother’s love on most liberal terms.
Dick found Haynes to be a cocky, with all the
characteristics of his class. On the second night of
his stay, Dick, plagued almost to madness with
insomnia, resolved to try his last resort, a quick
long walk abroad. The, world w T as plunged in dark-
ness, but Dick stumbled upon a man pottering about
a pig pen with a lantern. It was Haynes. “Good
mornin’. Lovely day, ain’t it?” he said.
“Montalex”: That rat-army that took to
the sea (B. 12/7/’l7) maySfeave been urged by the
impulse that makes the lemming drown itself in
millions. This little rotinfcl-headed, stumpy-tailed
rat, dwelling normally on 'tljp juniper-clad slopes of
the Swedish-Xorwegian dividing range, is impelled,
at intervals of five to 15' y4rs, to descend upon the
lowlands in countless multitudes. The swarm is
followed up by all kinds of predatory animals and
birds; but, spite of the destruction that they wage,
the host increases as it goes, and, when it reaches
the sea—Atlantic or Gulf of Bothnia, according to
the slope started from —it swims straight out to
call on Davy Jones. Why? There have been many
answers; none convincing.
* * * *
“Sarto” : Re weights and measures of the
bush. I came across an old miner who was throwing
things about because his week’s efforts had only
panned out three pennyweights, according to his
reckoning. It took me a long time to convince him
that the three pennies he had on the other side of
the scales would pull about 9dwts. He seemed
happier then. At a bush sports meeting recently
there was a sheep-weig'ht-gm s ing competition. The
winner divulged a great secret to me afterwards.
Measure with thumb and finger tile circumference of
the tail close up to the butt. Multiply the result
by 20, and you have the answer in pounds. When I
asked him how he’d get on if he was guessing ele-
phants he got snakey, and said that was the last
secret he’d tell me.
“Sassafras?”: “Whack” (B. 19/7/T7) says
he saw 318 sleepers got out of an ironbark log on
Dorrigo (N.S.W.). I don’t doubt that the sapling
grew on the slopes of the Dorrigo Mountain; it
certainly didn’t grow on the plateau proper.’ I
know that country fairly well, having cut timber
on it for the last 15 years, and I’ll bet “Whack” a
sack of tobacco that there’s no ironbark there. Any-
body doing any splitting at all “on top” has to
bring a piece of ironbark up from the flat country
to make a maul. But for other hardwoods, tallow-
wood, blackbutt, gum, etc., and soft woods of all
sorts, I’m game to say there’s no other country in-
New South like it.
“Eddyson”: Abel Gage was a hutman on
300 acres at Goosefoot. He was 50, and looked
as if he had arrived at that stage on the return
journey. He was a hatter, and had happened to
mention his crying need of a wife to Wombell,
whereupon 'Wombell spoke of his wife’s aunt Susan
living somewhere west of Wagga (N.S.W.). Abel
being interested, Wombell introduced him to Susan
by post as a fine young feller, sober, saving and
industrious. Correspondence went on for 3- ears, and
Abel Gage had not yet made a definite proposal. He
was, however, a prodigal letter-writer. He wrote
every week, and always got as much as a penny
stamp would carry. His custom was to rear the
bust portrait of a plump and pleasing person of 40
against the candlestick, and then write from the
model, so to speak. This went on for five 3’eavs.
The plump and pleasing person had shed her wide
smile on the laborious compilation of some 280 let-
ters of modified love and masked longing, and the
picture was looking pale and frayed. He believed
he was a lucky man, inasmuch as he was about to
win this glorious creature. Susan was agreeable.
Susan, it seemed, had been agreeable all along,
t ery well; Susan was to sell up, pack up, and arrive
in Melbourne by the Sydney express on a date given.
Gage went down to meet his beloved. The impetuous
lovers had agreed to marry right away, and break
the news to Susan's relations later. On the platform
Abel, with the portrait in his hand, subjected all
incoming dames of seeming' 40 to close scrutiny.
While doing so he bumped into a wTborT2
work in a blue skirt and a pink flannelette w" e ‘
who was carrying an umbrella— man’s sizeL, ’
carpet-bag of the kind favored in the ] a tt '■ ami a
of the reign of Canute. The large wr.n,„" years
at him like an angry stallion. “Where vJ Snorte<l
said she. “Can’t yeh see where yer lookin’ u ? ”
backed over a porter’s truck, and in falij „ Abol
jected the iron lip of that infernal machine"* Pl °'
the shinbones of the lady in the pink blouse
got to him with her umbrella. When he carnet
kindly porter was sponging his eye with ° a
water, and a newsboy was holding up a ~W arm
thin whisky in the interests of humanity' p, 0 *
missed Susan, so he went away, full o f' wounds , ■
charged with bitterness. Later in the day he
up at Wombell’s, with a black eye, a split In '
one hand in bandages. Had anything been see
Susan? “Why, bless you, yes, she’s here s 0" °!
Susan! Here’s Abel Gage!” A large elderly 2
appeared from another room. “Wot, him?” qh * ■
“Xot that!” cried Abel. .Without further'
Abel Gage broke from the house, and fled i ea *
his hat behind. He never returned for it 'a' 8
his way to *Goosefoot in the train, he recollect 1
with a sad and contrite heart that the portrait r
the plump and pleasing person was not a picture 2
Susan at all, but had come by chance, and had I
cherished as the outer seeming of the kind of dam"
most In keeping with Abel’s amorous fancy but""
had served for so long as a model that he’ had ,1
length eome to associate it with his distant adored
away &est of Wagga.
“II.” : Barring the useless house-sparrow
and the starling, which is a useful insect-destrover
especially of the ifrsidiousxand dangerous botfly V
imported bird has thriven better than the goldfinch*
These handsome birds are .common over a wide
stretch of country, ranging from arctic Monaro tn
the mild N. S. Wales South Coast. The nest is often
built in fruit-trees, like the silver-eye’s. European
skylarks were turned out oiiyMonaro Plains a good
many years ago, but arc not often seen there nowa-
days ; nevertheless these musicians are not easily ( ]j s .
tinguishable at a distance from the native “mount-
ing” lark, which has a clear, trilling carol of its
own. The English song-thrush, very like our taci-
turn mountain-thrush in plumage, is fairly common
and is very tame. I caught and handled one which
was dodging about in a Sydney garden. But for the
native cat, and, latterly, foxes, both pheasants and
Californian quail might have thriven in the Beea
(N.S.W.), where these birds were introduced two or
three decades ago. Both birds have been extermi-
nated. Another breed of wild duck, Ana* boselm
somewhat resembling the black duck (Ana* super-
ciliosa), has been introduced to Victoria, hut hasn't
become numerous. The Indian turtle-dove is com-
mon in many coastal districts, especially favor in;
Moreton Bay figs and other trees of the species flew.
* * *
“Quidam” : A pleasant and benign super-
stition of the Australian cocky is that it is woman's
special province to milk the cow. It is in mam
households considered infra dig. for the masculine
persuasion to do the milking, and many women
uphold the tradition nobly. They will snort about
the condition of the woodheap; they may even per-
suade the old man to light the morning fire. But
they would consider it a slur on themselves if any-
one saw the boss attending to Strawberry. Consequently
in rain or shine, mud or snow, the wife wanders
forth to the cow-vard, and man, to his eternal credit,
never attempts to rob her of the sacred privilege.
One of the most unmistakable signs of a revolution-
ised world w ill be the boss doing the milking in the
baekblocks. It will also foreshadow a tremendously
increased demand for milking-machines. Why bother
about labor-saving appliances when the old woman
does it for nothing?
GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY DREAD.
VISITOR: “ Well, you know, ‘no news is good news.'"
SUB-EDITOR: “Rot in this office, my boy."


1
The <
Right
Tyres
to fit to any Car that
has to withstand
heavy driving, are
DUNLOP
MOTOR'
TYRES'
They have the
STRENGTH, the
QUALITY, and
ample thickness of
high - grade rubber
wearing tread to en-
sure you thousands
of miles of running.
YOU CAN RELY
on satisfaction if you use
the latest “ Dunlops.”
Try them—NOW!
OBTAINABLE
ALLGARAGES
★ ★
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO
ALL
STATES
AND N.Z.
S
\
\
%
hi
Kink
I,
*>
1
n
This is only one of the advantages of
Dunlop Garden Hose
for you also get astonishing wear from this
popular Australian Hose. It’s made in three
brands: “Dunlop,” “Oceanic” & “Federal,”
and you can depend on getting full value
for your outlay, and years of service
by ordering either of these brands.
It’s no dearer than other Hoses—
the difference is in the
Quality and Service
you get
ILLUSTRATED LIST
ON APPLICATION.
\
OBTAINABLE
LEADING STORES
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & N.Z
Why
for imported
tubes when you
can obtain the
highest quality—
with satisfaction
and economy-
in the :: :: ::
Australian- made
DUNLOP
MOTOR
These heavy-weight laminated tubes mean
exceptional service, and their cost is
considerably less than imported makes.
Specify DUNLOP Tubes —it means
Satisfaction and your money
staying in your own
Country.
ALL SIZES
STOCKED.
LEADING
GARAGES.
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & NX
"ALWAYS ORDER
DUNLOP
RUBBER
GOODS'
This instruction
means a big
Annual Saving
in Money, Time
and Trouble.
Mine Managers
and....
Engineers
can always rely on
the quality and wear
of Dunlop Belting
(Conveyor & Driving),
Air, Hydraulic, Steam
and Delivery Hoses,
Packings, Valves,
Insertions, etc., etc.
Tenders and Samples Submitted.
INSTRUCTIVE 220 PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne
255 Clarence Street, Sydney
103-105 Flinders Street, Adelaide
67 Kins' Street, Perth
268-274 Adelaide Street. Brisbane
05 Courtenay Place, Wellington
116 Worcester Street, Christchurch
m.
-
shs
ife.


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That maKes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Ca-es.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Cold; but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to make any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUCHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS.
m
A
im i
m
1
~
m
S
i
F
m
13.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney, N.S.W. Wellinfftou, N.Z.
“Adelaide”: Carrie Moore as the Little
Hit of Fluff! In Adelaide we were less
honored —and more lucky. We had little
Dorothy Purdell as the fluff; and she was
It (or thereabouts).
“Intolerance,” reaching London rather
late, has got the great Drury Lane Theatre
packed. The Easter Monday afternoon
show made the big claim of having beaten,
by over £lOO, “the previous largest takings
ever recorded for any performance of a pic-
ture, at anv theatre, in England or America.”
“B.”': Gregan McMahon, who is to play
the Man Who Married the Dumb Wife, men-
tions the interesting fact that two very old
friends, Elton and O. I’. Heggie, interpreted
the same character in London and New
York. The friendship of the trio dates from
their frivolous association in “Tom, Dick
and Harry” and other Hawtrey productions
in the Commonwealth over 20 years ago.
“Jwosp” : Died in New York a month or
so ago, Alice Maude Fitch, mother of Clyde
Fitch, playwright. The romantic marriage
of Alice Clarke, of Maryland, to captain
Fitch, o'f the Northern Army, in ’63, was
seen in “Barbara Frietchie,” which Dan T.
Frawley did in these parts. Clyde utilised
his mother’s romance for the love story of
that play, and made a lot of money out of it
too.
“Silas”: Louise Lovely, now a flashing
film actress in America, was Louise Cara’-
basse when she acted in Meynell and Gunn’s
“Two Little Sailor Boys” in Sydney and
Melbourne. Mother kept—still keeps—shop
in the former city. A Melbourne scribe gave
the girl his candied opinion that her acting
was not up to much, but her face was a for-
tune. “Yes, and I am going where I can
realise on it,” said Louise. She went, and
having her handsome head screwed on the
right way is realising beyond her fondest
hopes.
“Stargazer”: Curious that the clever
dumb-sliowmen of a few years ago are not
conspicuous among picture actors to-day.
Brilliant pantomimists who on the stage
could by mere action convey over the foot-
lights any story you might set them, empha-
sising every detail, and who could draw
screams of laughter from large vaudevillp
audiences by pure pantomime, are not among
those who have won much applause and
more money figuring in the films. You would
have expected a company like the Martin-
ettis. for instance, to produce three or four
Charlie Chaplins; but they are nowhere
visible.
"S." : The Incorporated Stage Society in
London handed its enemies a stick to
beat ir with,' by announcing that it would
play Congreve’s “Love for Love” word for
word. It is a fairly “strong” drama of
1695, and the news soon went round that it
contains several “unspeakable” lines. The
play was rushed, of course, and the fashion-
able audience had the dirt duly handed out
- —in the name of Art! The pity of it is
that "Love for Love” is a brilliant play, in-
dependently of the coarseness which could
so easily have been omitted, and at which,
as the Uefekee well puts it. “Congreve can
probably still be beaten by many a brainless
scribbler on an outhouse wall.”
G. It. Sims has started a fresh series of
reminiscences. He recalls how as a young
dramatic critic of the Weekly Despatch
he saw in the Grecian, a London East End
theatre, the debut of William Archer, the
<Queenslander. It was in April, 1881, and
the play was entitled “Australia: or The
Bushrangers.” Sims says it was Archers
“one and only essay in the lurid art of
melodrama.” Although well-written —“with
such an eminent man of letters it was bound
to be” —it was not a commercial success, and
tailed to appeal to East End audiences. Soon
afterwards-the Grecian and a famous tavern
under the same roof, the Eagle, were cap-
tured by General Booth and converted into
a blood-and-fire citadel.
“Futsac”: One fatuous idea seems to be '
that the way to win the war is by not letting
us see any of its grimmer sides. All the war
films that come to Australia are, first of all.
taken by cinematographers who are army
men. and must obey’ orders concerning what
they shall photograph. Then half a dozen
military censors chop them up. Ultimately
they are released for exhibition by the Mar
Office through the War Office Cinemato
graphic Committee. By that time they are
considered safe enough for England. But
before Australia can look, the local Scissor-
has to do something superfluous for his
salary. This super-censorship has snipped
out pictorial arguments that would have
gone twice as far as 7129 windy recruiting
speeches.
“0.K.”; My most humorous recollection*
of “Grumpy” are its solemn moments. In
Act 2 Grumpy’s grand-daughter lightly refers
to the possibility- of her dying, remarking
that many young girls pass out. The ok
man raises his hand and says, in Cynl
Maude’s most reproving tones: “Never joke
about death.” The audience is deeply im-
pressed by the old man’s change from gay to
grave. Yet he may- joke on the subject
himself. His grey-haired valet pleads g' ullE ',
to failing eyesight; whereupon, “RuddocK.
says he, “you’re breaking-up. We shall h (l
losing you soon, Iluddock.” So wherea-
Grumpy may cut his own little jokes about
Death to get a laugh, he solemnly deprecates
such frivolity in other people that he may
get a sigh, lie has taken out a theatrical
license for inconsistency.
“A.”: Put the spotlight for a moment on
Ada Colton, who is responsible for fne
Shakspearean costumes for the forthcoming
Bailey-Grant season at Melbourne King*-
To be a successful wardrobe mistress Dj
have to know how to fake, and Aou vvi
her trusty sewing-machine will fake any-
thing. Some years ago she dressed a m°* s
successful pantomime for £6l Is. 6d. ''
it is realised that it takes anything 9
£3OO to £lOOO and more to dress an averw
panto, the figures are amazing. She trai
in a hard school, but a good one. the An f
soniau.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Jokai”: With the present war-time scar-
city of aniline dyes the cochineal insect
stands a good chance of supplying carmine
and lake pigments. A native of Mexico and
< ’entral America, it has been introduced into
Australia with success. We can supply it
with all the food it wants, and only too
pleased, as it dines on the cactus-plant and
raises families that Knibbs couldn’t count.
When the second generation are ready; to
settle down, you pop them in a hot oven on
trays, and after that you give them a sun
l ath. The dead insects look like small bits
uf gravel, and about 60,000 of them go to
the pound. The funeral yields about 10 per
l ent, of coloring matter, due to the earminic
acid in them.
There are signs of awakening intelligence
in the citizen who has a hankering after a
poultry-farm of his own. One of them adver-
tised the other day that he wanted to buy
an outfit of the kind near Melbourne, and
actually included the proviso that the con-
cern mast stand auditing by a qualified
accountant!
“Centurion”: Yes; we are a great people!
This conclusion was forced on me by an
experience while returning to Australia re-
cently on a transport. We had voyaged in
hourly risk of destruction, and judging by
the extreme precautions taken we were
carrying a cargo of great value. An
officer, in confidence, satisfied my curiosity.
Most, of his lading, he explained, consisted
of marble slabs and casks of pickled lemon-
peel. They had to bring me round with the
ship’s hose.
"F.F.P.” : Mij versatile country barber —
at Dargo (Vie.) —begins by being the black-
smith. But he will also cut your hair,
shave you, draw your nag's teeth, or mend
your tank. He will catch a “brumby” for
you for 30s. He cleans mining, tracks,
shears sheep, and makes coffins. He and
the local John Hop (myself) once packed
a body 40 miles. He tied up the departed
like a mummy, plaeed it on one side of the
nag, and lashed it so well that it never
shifted, although the horse bolted for two
miles.
“Enzedder” : What bosh it is to say that
the Australian army is the best clothed in
the world! Have you seen the Maoriland
army clothing? If not, stop the next M.L.
soldier, and ask him politely to open his
tunic and show you what is between him
and the weather. Occasionally a M.L.
fighter is left behind in Australia owing to
illness, and is billeted with the A.I.F. His
outfit is the envy of them all; indeed, their
clothing is shoddy by comparison.
“Warden” : “Cyanide,” who declaimed on
the strictness of goldfields wardens nowa-
days (B. 32/7/’l7), would have revelled in
the conditions prevailing on the Gira and
Yodda goldfields, in Papua, when those good
alluvial fields were booming. A digger tak-
ing up a claim just located convenient trees
or rocks with his eye, and decided those
were “about” his marks. Any newcomer
deciding to “set in” close by was duly in-
formed of the supposed whereabouts of these
boundaries and usually respected them. If
he didn’t, he struck trouble. In my three
years’ experience as Warden thereabout I
never saw a properly-marked claim, and only
had one case of claim-jumping. Mob law is
very often good law —if the mob is of the
right stuff.
* * ¥ *
“Flaneur” : This is the tribute to the work
of Australian shipwrights by Jack London.
Describing the piling-up of the Minota on a
coral shelf off Malaita, Solomon Islands, he
said: —■
The Minota was honestly built, which is the first
essential for any boat that is pounding on a reef.
Some idea of what she endured may be gained from
the fact that in the first 24 hours she parted two
anchor-chains and eight hawsers. There were times
when she parted the chains reinforced with hawsers.
And yet she Held together. Tree-trunks were brought
from ashore, and worked under her keel and bilges,
but the trunks were gnawed and splintered and tne
ropes that held them were frayed to fragments; and
still she pounded and held together.
For three days and two nights the craft
hammered on the reef, and yet when she was
got off she floated. She was originally a
yacht of 28 tons, built at McMahon’s 1 oint,
Sydney, by Holmes, iu 1902.
“H.E.R.” has a morning’s dissipation: —
Two dreams will never enter our railway goods-
shed again. It happened towards the end of' the
month, when the port sends up its nightmare of
groceries, and the country sends down its covered
trucks of fruit. Everywhere was turmoil, and gangs
of raw casual laborers were running about with
barrows, like demented rabbits. - The ladies tripped
in to inquire about a ease of fruit that a friend of
theirs had written to say he was sending. They
explained themselves to about a dozen different men
in the shed, and each had advised them to “see that
feller over there.” So they drifted nearer to the
sweating gangs. Out of a truck came an awful
smell. It arose from a crate of pig. Four men
struggled until the crate was landed on the platform.
Then they discovered that the Crate had four little
handles. Each man grasped a handle, and gave a
heave. The whole framework, of the crate came away
leaving the astonished pig standing like an unveiled
statue. A startled grunt of satisfaction and the pig
was off. The ladies screamed and parted to let
him pass. The four men stood spellbound. The head-
porter saw only pig and fat-headed casual laborers.
“Catch the by the ears! Quick 1 Catch
the by the ears!” he roared, and like a
burly elephant himself, he crashed through a stack
of personal effects, and downed on the runaway.
Such a screaming and cursing followed that the ladies
quivered. When the animal was finally captured they
swam forward into the head-porter’s field of vision.
He blushed unhappily, brushed his uniform, put on
his cap, and then snatched it off apologetically. The
visitors permitted him to lead them to the top end
of the shed, where he begged to know their wants.
They had just begun their story all over again when
a rake of trucks, hand-shunted, crashed into the
others, already half unloaded. Things flew in all
directions. The foreman sprang into the air like an
indiarubber ball on fire, shouting; “Who the
brought those trucks down ?” The shaken
head-porter dashed up crying: “Foreman! Foreman !
There’s ladies present!” The foreman collapsed,
sweating, and whispered hoarsely, “Did I say any-
thing wrong?” “Wrong!” hissed the head-porter,
“for the honor of the shed you ought to apologise.”
But the dreams had fled.
“R.D.”: It is extraordinary how our
manufacturers still shrink from using the
name of their country. The chair on which
I am sitting is a solid article, made of good
Australian wood by a firm in Footscray, but
it bears the label. “Made by European
Labour only.” Well, the products of
Bremen and Hamburg are made by
European labor only, but that fact doesn’t
recommend them to Australians. This firm
is evidently living mentally in some back-
water. where the only competition *to fear
is that of a few Chinamen in Bourke-street
or Collingwood.
“T.V.T.” : “Gham” (B. 5/7/’l7) cites one
Tom Kelly’s rabbit-trapping cheque of £8
6s. Sd. as the record for the business.
Unless I am ruled out on a technicality, 1
can heat him. Ben Bradley, trapping in
\\ ombat State Forest (Vic.), in one night
lassoed £63 18s. Compiled thus: £1 18s. for
rabbits and £62 for the 360 z. nugget he
unearthed with his setter whilst making the
scrape for his last trap.
* * * *
•Bom agi : Don t let optimists be too con-
fident about vanilla. Cultivating the deli-
cate-scented vegetable which is used to flavor
o gars and blanc-mange in a tropic garden
sounds an attractive pastime for a Wiu-
ilie-M ar flapper ; hut. unfortunately, the thing
has a nasty habit of turning cantankerous
and refusing to deliver the goods when
called on. One season it may declare a divi-
dend of £B9 16s. lid. for a 10s. deposit, and
the next it is as likely to maintain an im-
pregnable silence.
* * * *
“D. and F.” : Don’t believe the easy lie that
the sailorman’s spirit has been killed bv
steam. A while ago a couple of Dagoes
picked up a 20-ton cutter cheap in Mel-
bourne, and decided to sail her round to the
M.A. pearling fields. They had not got out
of I ort Phillip when a heavy blow took
both masts out. They put the sticks in
again, made another start, and got safely
round, though they had a fierce argument
with Jones when crossing the Bight and
hauling round the Leeuwin.
* * * *
J.I .H. (London) : Though war-time
brings fortune-tellers a big rush of credu-
lous clients, it has a large crop also of raid-
ing police and detectives. In the latest
batch hi ought before one of our courts was
an old lady of 69 named Elizabeth Mary
Porter, describing herself as a clairvoyant
and the "widow of a well-known Australian
physician,” and declared to be a “well-edu-
cated religious woman who knew- the Bible
from Ato Z.” She stated in court that she
had been m the. business since she was a
child of six, had told fortunes for nothing
and never had any intention to deceive’
“ a '’ in £, beell in custody for a week, she was
let off” with a fine of £25.
A RHYME OF EARLY SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is the blessed Springtime, bright with blossoms.
All day long
The kindly sun is shining in the blue ;
The thrush salutes the morning with a sweet and
splendid song
Of lovely things—of diamonds in the dew ;
Of spiders’ banners on the breeze,
And good green grubs on gay green trees,
And all the joys the Springtime-lover knows.
Yet, hopelessly pursuing fickle Fashion down the
track,
Two laps behind —there, there Clarinda goes.
Still with her superheating fur-coat on her back !
The wattle’s blooming now —a thing the wattle often
does
This time o’ year. Above the yellow hough
The honey-bee may he observed to wing its way, and
buzz,
With not a sign of care upon its brow,
While all the time the sun is hot
Upon Olarinda’s bargain-lot.
Somewhat canary-legged, in silken hose
From knee to ankle coolly-clad, as all the world may
see,
Clarinda walks, quite springless at her toes,
Because she is midsummer-warm from lily neck to
knee.
The perfume of new-opened buds that smile up at the
sky,
Spring’s green-and-golden odors on the air,
And —whoof! The scent of camphor as Clarinda
passes by,
A moth-bomb in each pocket, planted there
To keep the little brutes at bay
Throughout the long, warm, summery day.
It’s Springtime now—it will be Summer soon ;
Yet still Clarinda’s winter coat must do its daily bit
•lust as it did in damp and chilly June,
Because Clarinda, little flat, still owes three-ten on it.
VICTORIA.
O. L.
CHINESE TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Five Chinese were charged with being found in
a common gaming-house. Their names were- \l
Han (37J, Ah Fong (44), Ah Young (44) Ah'su
(oO), Young Yek (55).’' V *’ 1
Ah Han, “Fan tan
Ah Fong, No goo d!*'
Ah Young, so say
Ah Sam, Young Yek,
You run When down
Too slow The stairs
When front He break
Door slam. Hjg neck.
All Sam, “Two poun’ ?
Ah Young, All li>,
Ah Han, Me pav—
Ah Fong, y ou h ‘ ear ,
You pLy Hex’ time
Too much, You want
Yo 'i stay cheap floot—
Too long. .yo fear •
tf.s.w.
AH KODAK.


* W
: 4>-
aMjsiL
" 'r
A
ml
-
*0
i*~'
r i
«MW
A NEW ERA IN LIGHTING I
A few of its applications are for the illumination of the following:—
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
CLOCK TOWERS
COMMERCIAL HOUSES
ADVERTISING HOARDINGS
CONSTRUCTION WORK
STATUES
Briefly, a Flood Lighting Projector consists of a parabolic reflector
MA7n\ ‘i n a we ?,therproof casing and arranged to take a focus type
MAZ.UA Lamp. By using this apparatus a beam of light is projected
°k the I surface to be illuminated. Because the light is concentrated
where the illumination is desired, this method is most economical in
operation and greatly reduces the initial expense of lighting installation,
whilst the effect is singularly spectacular and effective.
The reflector consists of a three-zone silver-plated glass mirror.
For full particulars on this subject communicate with
ElktricG 5
Wentworth Ay Sydney. Oj of Queen e Little Collins St Melbourne.
"i |i *
:wsCT-ir
yi«sfli
i
it 2222
nesa
ifw
TIPI
w W W
* « ■ s ‘-cSS*-
B
3
*.*
a
‘gi'yTvytrii
HfllTffli;
*r
rt
11
mo?
m
is
i
s
w
f*
IP?
.-. * .
:/ ■.,. TV-
/r : £ ■ ’ ' . >»%*•
Sfe: v * c ■•’ r: ' 1&H


GO
C%
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Watch, jewelled
ment, jfunmetal or nickel case, 20/-.
jewelled, 25/-, 30/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-
Gold, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-
more-
Extra
Solid
A. Saunders.
<2
9
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Bracelet, strong safety
price, £3,
£2/10/-, £3/10/-
“Curb” Snap Padlock,
chain attached. Special
Other sizes, 80/-, £2,
£4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled lever movement, compensation balance,
£B/10/-, Similar designs, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-’
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Oent.'s 9ct. Gold
Sigret King,
20/-
I.ady's size,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ Pure
double cut Dia-
mond Cross-over
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A.. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Wedding-
Ring, 10/-
15et., 15/-
18ct., 20/-
A. Saunders’
Brooch, £2,
pure double cut Diamond Bar
£2/10/-, £3, according to
size of diamond.
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Tiffany Wed-
ding Rings,
15ct„ 25/-
18ct„ 30/-
40/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Half-hoop
King, 18ct. Gold,
LJI
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Tablet Ring,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ Pearls and Red or Green
Stones or Turquoise Gold Brooch, JLo/-
Solid Silver
£2
Gold Filled
£3
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade Lever
Watch, double case, full jewelled, ad-
justed movement. Nickel Silver, 30/-.
Solid Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £4, £5,
Gold filled, £:>. £4/4/-, £3/5/-, £6/6/-.
Solid Gold, £-8/10/-, £lO, £l5, £2O.
All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18et.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Boat-shape
King, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Diamonds and Red Stones Gold Bracelet,
9et. Gold, 35 /-
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST FREE.
ALL ORDERS POSTED FREE.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring-, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Cross-over
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pearls and Amethyst or
Garnets Scroll Brooch, 9ct. Gold,
25/-
-A. Saunders’ Pearl and Garnet or Amethyst
Bar Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Pearl and
Aquamarine Circle
Gold Brooch, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Amethyst or Garnet Brooch,
9ct. Gold. 20/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Bar Brooch, 9ct.
Gold, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney ( ° pp station) i,way
A. Saunders’ Pearls and Diamond 2-Bar
Brooch, 9et. Gold, 22/6. 15ct., £2.
20/-
Post Free
25/-
Post Free
% M /
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Nickel Open-
face Keyless Lever Watch. Patent ad-
justed balance, non-magnetic time spring,
dust- and water-proof cases, 20/-
Higher grades, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
All guaranteed.
Germs cause Sore and Husky Throats.
EVANS’ Pastilles .
are a scientific means of removing the cause.
Doctors prescribe them.
EVANS, SONS, LB SC HER & WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
HORROCKSE S'HO
MADE FROM
FINE SELECTED COTTON
IHORROCKSES’HO
FOR WINTER
HORROCKSESI
—— rsr——Jj
“/dead /ux&btc”
WEARS better. WASHES better.
r
a no. LOOKS, better than
FLANNEL
AT. COUBLE THE PRICE
SEE
HORROCKSES’"
Jd'n^
SELVEDGE
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted.
De Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40
engraving', 1/3. How to Dance, 1/- posted.
How to Wrestle, 1/3. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2 posted. Thurston’s Card
Trices, 1/2. All Zola's, including Nana, 1/6
each posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. \ en-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic
Reciter, 1/3 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, lOd. ; AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life. 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. AVindoav Ticket
AVriting Explained, 1/6. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-,
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/3. Fortune-Telling by Cards. 1/2.
Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/a. The Aoke,
by Hubert AVales, 1/3. Tricks and Diversions
with Cards, illus., 1/3. Beauty’s Secrets, post
free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How to Make
Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
12/6. Australian Miner’s Guide, (simple tests
for minerals, 3/9. Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling
Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-,
post 1/3. How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1.
Will Power (Personal Magnetism), 1/- posted.
Svndow’s Book of Strength, 3/6 posted. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 4/3 posted. Mysteries of
Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 12/-. Practical Gas
and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty
(Blatchford), lOd. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. &
1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. Britain for
the British, 9d. Hoav to Read Faces, 1/6. How
to train for all Sports, 1/3. Diseases of
Horses 1/6. French Polishing & Staining, 1/6.
Photography Self-taught, 1/3. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks witfli
Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting & Papering,
1/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 12/6.
Australian Pastrycooks’ Ouide, 1/6.
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain
language, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of
young and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in con-
sulting their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable
interesting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a
very superior guide to the action of men and women both in
and out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a
bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest
sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
KfIr~ BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, &c.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-, posted 1/3.
Camille, 1/6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano,
1/-. Piano Tuning anti Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Gaines), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
from Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/-. posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor (Cures for all
Diseases). 1/3 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date,
1/6 posted. Speeches & Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/6 posted, Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/-.
Self-Instructor : Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Book-keeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 6/6 posted. Adventures of
John Johns, 1/6. Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Woman of Fire *2/-
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
your cash. 25 Y
save
ears.
ONEY A SMAEE IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/6 posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/3. Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/5. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 posted. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, l/-. all About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New’ Edition, 1/6 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
lOd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
9d., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1 /•>
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted;
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price, 16/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas.)-
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/3. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, clow
bound, 11/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyant->
1/- posted. 200 Old-time Songs (words and mu ®
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason. »
Paine, posted 9d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAi
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
THE BIG BOOK STORE.
67869 Market Street, Sydney (ONLY)


Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, August 1. 1917.
Appointment of Superintending Civil
Engineer—Henderson Naval Base.
A FULLY-QUALIFIED Civil Engineer is
required for the position of Superin-
tending Civil Engineer of the extensive
works in progress and projected in connec-
tion with the Henderson Naval Base, Cock-
burn Sound, Western Australia.
The projected works comprise heavy
breakwaters, deep-water quay-walls, exten-
sive excavations and reclamations, extensive
dredging and Floating Docks.
Applications are invited from Civil
Engineers who have had experience in
heavy Engineering Works and the manage-
ment and control of men. Only those who
have had this experience and have held
responsible positions will be considered.
The salary will be £750 per annum and a
residence, the salary rising by annual incre-
ments on approved service to £9OO per
annum.
Applications, stating age and giving full
particulars of training and experience and
qualifications, and enclosing copies of testi-
monials of which not less than two must be
recent, should be addressed to the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office. Melbourne, and de-
livered not later than 3rd September, 1917.
Applications to be endorsed “Application
for Superintending Civil Engineer.”
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, August 7, 1917.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Examination for Appointment as Pay-
master’s Clerk (Sea-going).
A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION for
appointment as Paymaster’s Clerk
(Sea-going) in the Royal Australian Navy-
will be held in the Capital cities towards the
end of 1917.
The syllabus and standard of examination
will be practically the same as for examina-
tion as clerk in the Commonwealth Public
' Service.
Candidates must attain the age of seven-
teen years in 1917.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette
No. 117, of 26th July. 1917. obtainable at
any Post Office, or at the Office of the Naval
Secretary, Navv Office. Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
A mu semen In.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres l.iu.
' Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSII.
JIVOI.I TiIGA T U K, SYI) N K V
EVENINGS 8 ; MATINEES WEDS. AND SATS.
ALVIN AND WILLIAMS. Specialists. NELUSCO
and HURLEY, Novelty Artists. KELLY and DRAKE.
Musical Comedians. BILLIE SEATON, Disease
Comedienne. RAY TRAYNOR at Piano. WILLARD
and WILSON, in “The Crime Hunters.” ALP GRANT,
Dialect Comedian. GWEN LEWIS. Songs. ARCHIE
ONRI, assisted by DOLLT. VAUDE and VERNE,
patter comedians.
“T*l VO Li THEATRE, MEI.ROURNK.
ALL STAIi VAUDEVILLE.
CAMILLE TRIO, MARTIN AND BOGGS, JOE
REED, CREOLE FASHION PLATE, CLYDE COOK.
THURBER AND THURBER, MABEL MORGAN,
RUTH RUDD, REYNOLDS AND WINTE, EDNA
MAY FOSTER. Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
CR I T E R I () N T II E A T R E. SYDNEY.
Direction .1. C. WILLTAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 11.
.1. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have great pleasure m
announcing the Famous English Character Actor, Mr.
CYRIL MAUDE, in his International Triumph,
GRUMPY.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales at Callose’s.
E~R MAJESTY’ S, SYDNEY
Direction .1. C. WILLTAMSON LTD.
DOROTHY BRUNTONS FAREWELL.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF HIGH JINKS.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 18.
SO LONG, LETTY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
DAI. A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SYDNEY JAMES and JACK WALLER
present the Second Edition of
LOOK WHO’S HICRU.
The Musical and Mirthful Hit of the Season.
A NEW EDITION EVERY FRIDAY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
Tit I ANGLE PJLAYS AT
THE LYCEUM,
I'ITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session ;
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Cox Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
jug select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
. Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENI CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Isl T O K S T O s'Yl) N E V.
An addressed, stamped envelope will bring to
you by return mail a list of current attractions at
principal Sydney Theatres, etc.
WHAT’S ON? ADVERTISING CO.,
85 Pitt Street, Sydney. .
FU MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLTAMSON LTD.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
j C WILLIAMSON LTD. present for the first
ime in Australia the Brilliant Musical Play,
THE REP WIDOW.
The Musical Play of Perennial Popularity.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
1 H EAT HE KO V A 1,, ME I. IH) IKM E.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
K ATIILENE MACDONEUU
In JEAN WEBSTER’S Full o' Smiles Play,
DADDY LONG LEGS.
IT INC.’S THEATRE,
Sole Lesseess
M E I, B O t! It N E.
BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 18.
present
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT
Shakespeare’s Immortal Comedy,
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.
Popular Prices.
I KINCESS’S TREAT HI
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE.
SEVEN DAYS’ LEAVE
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 3/-.
THE PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 23.
REPERTORY COMPANY.
(Direction GRECIAN McMAITON)
THE CHARITY THAT BEGAN AT
HOME.
A Comedy for Philanthropists, by ST. JOHN HANKIN’
Box Plan at Glen’s.
All parts of the House may be Booked.
FAULKNER SMITH Direction.
|y|\.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY-
ENID BENNETT.
our own Australian star, in
THE GILL GLORY.
Matinees Daily at 2.30. Night at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
H
OYT’S
THEATRES,
MELBOURNE
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11. •
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening, and Matinees Saturday at
2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
LADY TREE and RUTLAND
BARRINGTON in
STILL WATERS RUN DEEP
And Miss JACKIE SAUNDERS in
SUNNY JANE.
Prices as usual.
M
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE
Showing the pick of the world's films, including
lie productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE.
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
>RIT AMNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
Business Notices.
J
V
/
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
frCARBOLrcII
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester, Eng.
JOIN up, young man. and yon will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out. and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TRIED AND TRUSTED.
‘•Many’s the Razor I have tried, out there's none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others,
.loin the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM/’
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/0.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/G.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
1 CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
\-
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
WoISG
BRITISH-MADE UNDERWEAR
Slowly, but inevitably, Winter is coming—with its piercing winds,
its chilling damp, its swirling rains.
Be prepared—see about your Wolsey now. Wolsey will keep you
snug and “comfy ’’ on even the coldest day. Wolsey is pure wool —
as clean and healthful as scrupulous care and modern methods can
make it.
The manufacturers of Wolsey are jealous of its great reputation —
no underwear is allowed to leave the factories that will not
uphold it.
Any Wolsey garment found to shrink will be replaced free of
cost. Wolsey is made in varying weights and sizes, and is.
consequently, sold at different prices. Made for men. women
and children. Look for the Trade Mark on every garment.
The Wolsey Underwear Company, Leicester.
ye
l
&
The NEW EDISON
enables you to have in
your home the real music
of world-famed artists.
Since you can enjoy music's actual Re-creation, it would be a
mistake to tolerate music's mere approximation. The NE\\
EDISON will delight you, no matter how critical you are —in fact,
the more critical you are the more you will appreciate its unique
and marvellous fidelity.
The wonderful Diamond Stylus Reproducer, the hard, special
material of the record, and the very sensitive diaphragm are but
three reasons why The NEW EDISON is raised to the standard of
a real musical instrument, vastly superior to talking machines.
Miss Julia Heinrich, of the Metropolitan Opera Company, once
remarked: “When 1 first heard the Re-creation of my voice, tears
came into my eyes, I was so thrilled. It seemed uncanny. 1 knew
1 was listening for the first time in my life to the real Julia
1 reinrich."
J,earn more of this wonderful musical instrument. Write for full
particulars to-day, post free on request. - •
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


HOYT’S PICTURES
Two fo« tn res every night, 3 hours —12,000 feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to G.
IDEAL FILM PLAYS.—The all-British-made Films, showing one week
before any other Theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 621 S and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays. 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
s
With He
si®#
Throat «SS
i I
ft**'*!
.%«■**•*
free
trial
bottle
The Perfect
Emulsion
Prescribed by the Medical Profession.
Angiers Emulsion is the most palatable, the most
cream-like, the most perfect of all Emulsions. Even the
most fastidious take it with pleasure, and it agrees
per ectly with delicate, sensitive stomachs. Those who
ave ound other Emulsions distasteful, should try
ngier s, and note the difference; it alw T ays pleases,
ascribed by the Medical Profession for twenty-five
ea f S ’, r ls a stan dard remedy of proved values, equally
useful for adults or children.
Send name and addrpcc „a
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO. ’ LT;
postage, and mention this
, 233, Clarence Street, Sydney,
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Melbourne branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Union has cheerfully decided “not
to handle any more foodstuffs for export,
except for war purposes, until prices are
brought down to pre-war prices,” and it is
folding its arms and carrying out the deci-
sion. The lumpers have bumped against a
more massive problem than they think. Aus-
tralia is horribly in debt to the foreigner;
and if it doesn’t pay him his interest the
A LOST ART.
SERIOUS PABTY: “I dung man. the longer
the war lasts the more serious it is.”
FLIPPANT PARTY: “ You're right, sport; this
is the third season without any foot-
hall — I’m afraid the blokes ’ll forget
the game.”
bailiff will step in. A country with a
foreign creditor must export, or repudiate;
and if the lumper thinks that the right time
to export is when goods are cheap, so that
the country will have to supply a whole lot
to pay the bill, he also presumably "Oinks
that it is better for himself to get 6s. a day
than 12s.
A summary of what the. Commonwealth
has handed over to the States during the
war shows a total of £31,134,000, including
£3,000,000 that was borrowed for war,
£7.500,000 cadged in London and £20.634.000
appropriated from the notes fund. As there
is £4,850.000 more to be taken this year for
the States out of war-loan money to build
silos and make advances to settlers, and as
the Commonwealth hopes to get a further
£6,■840,000 for them out of poor old .T. Bull,
it looks as if the spongers are just as
ravenous as ever. The Federal authority
will by the end of the year have been tapped
by them for £42,820,000 and have a war
bill jitst that much bigger for the future to
struggle with.
Even Melbourne’s mild Board of Health
lately got annoyed, and complained that cer-
tain owners of a suburban
movie-show, on their manage-
ment being prosecuted for over-
crowding the theatre, settled
the matter in a J.-Peaceful man-
ner by packing the local bench
and fining themselves one
pound. There were five persons
adjudicating, a P.M. and four
J’s.P., it is alleged ; and of the
latter three were shareholders
in the movie-theatre. The Board
has thereupon asked the Attor-
ney-General “to ensure that in
future persons interested in
cases of this sort shall not sit
on the bench.” The most effec-
tive —perhaps the only effective
—way to do this would be to
abolish the J.P. altogether;
hut, as Attorney-General Law-
son has lately been hailed by a
friendly claque as a coming
Premier, it hardly seems likely
that he will be prepared to
throw away one of his most
precious log-rolling privileges.
The matter ought to be taken right out
of the politicians’ hands; the same Full
Court which has the power to wipe gents,
one off the roll should he the guardians also
of the purity of the lower bench.
The Commonwealth raised £3,932,775 by
income tax in the first year of assessment
(1915-M6). During the current year
£5,915.000 will be lifted and about £1,600,000
by levying on war-time profits. That means
a jump of three millions. Last year
£2,121,847 was secured by land tax. This
year the estimate is £2.110,000, and that
means a decrease of £11,847. Thus this so-
called “National” Government piles the load
on to enterprise and industry while lifting it
off propputy.
Members of the N. S.- Wales
Parliament help themselves to £4O
a week of the taxpayers’ cash
to buy postage-stamps for them-
selves. As they also cut up
about £l4OO a week in salaries, ex-
penses and railway passes, and
another £lOOO a week goes in main-
taining clerks and printing speeches
and keeping refreshments on tap, it
looks as if in the race for that last
shilling of Andy Fisher’s this crowd
will be fairly close up at the finish.
A return lately handed by Knibbs
to the Federal Parliament shows the
number of freehold properties in the
Commonwealth. There are 718,569
of them, assessed at £455,896,104.
Of the total 58 per cent, are under
£2OO in value; 1.7 per cent, are over
£5OOO. But the small properties—sB
per cent, of the total —represent only
6 per cent, of the value of the whole;
while the 1.7 per cent, of the owners
stand possessed of land worth
£179,668,830, or 39 per cent, of the
aggregate value of all properties.
Now see how a tax of 3d. in the
pound would nan out: 417,000 per-
sons would pay £262,527 (about 12s.
a head on an average) ; 12.152 would
yield £1.330,073. In N. S. Wales
more than half the value of the land
in the State is held by one-fiftieth of
the total number of people who own
land within its borders. From all of
which it is obvious that a general
land tax would bring unutterable woe
on the poor widow and the distressed
orphan.
It is a sign of our national demoralisation
that, as soon as industrial trouble threatened
over the card system in the N. S.
Wales railways, there was an instant
outcry from politicians on the Govern-
ment side that no “speeding-up” was
contemplated. It would be far better
to tell the good, plain, honest truth abotit it
—that speeding-up to a fair thing ought to
be contemplated, if it isn’t. It is notorious
that loafing on Government jobs in Australia
—and particularly in N. 8. Wales—has
become w r orse and worse, until it 1 now
amounts to a public scandal and a national
peril. The Railway Commissioners have
figures to prove this. If the aim of the ;card
system was not to put an end to the fraud
on the people, which this loafing amounts to.
then it was a purposeless aim, and the cards
were a waste of money. If it was the aim
of the system, then it would have been far
better to have stated a few of the facts- —
relative to costs and so on —in the Commis-
sioners’ possession, and thus justified the
introduction of the system. But vote-
hungry politicians have got so into the habit
of truckling that they are afraid now to tell
men that a decent day’s work is required of
them; and the Commissioners are silenced
for the same reason.
"WHEN THE MODEL DOESN’T TURN
UP.”
it is now said that the cables made a mess
of the message, and that the famous North-
eliffe analogy did not couple Lloyd George,
Haig and Hughes with Pitt, Wellington and
Nelson, hut with Pitt, Nelson and Bill
Adams.
Better to he wounded in the pride than in
the stomach. — Shirkers’ motto.
The project of the Phewsion to raise
£500,000 by a special tax on single men and
childless widowers of military age who have
not enlisted is morally indefensible. These
people have committed no statutory offence.
No court could line them. The State in
punishing them is merely falling back on the
coercion practised by distributors of white
feathers and provocative phrases. It is
afraid to say to eligible men “You must
enlist,” and covers its timidity by present-
ing them with a demand for £lO. thus mak-
ing the National Treasury a partner in the
evasion of a national duty. Men who do
not enlist are merely doing what the Federal
Parliament and a plebiscite of the electors
has said they have an absolute right to do—
please themselves. Nine out of 10 of those
who do pay the tax will regard it as the
price at which they have been able to get
exemption from military service. How many
men who hand up £lO does Hughes think
will afterwards enlist? The tax will bring
in a little money, but it will be a worse
hindrance to recruiting than all the speeches
that the I.WAV. ever made.
Referring last week to “Germany’s game
pf bluff,"’ Sydney D.T. headed the informa-
tion :—-
ON HER LAST LEGS.
Perhaps; but the worst of it is she is stand-
ing on the Allies’ corns.
S. Aus. Parliament has cynically given up
all pretence that the country has any busi-
ness worth bothering about. It just adjourns
for a fortnight, then meets and is told "Noth-
ing settled between Peake and Vaughan yet ”
and adjourns some more. Meanwhile' the
new Liberal Ministry, even though it knows
that half of it is to be thrown overboard to
make i-oom for three Vaughanites. goes on
with its departmental work; and various
more or less well-known citizens keep up a
newspaper correspondence of astonishing
frankness, suggesting which of the team
could be spared, and why. Combining the
opinions and judgments of various impartial
people, it seems that they could every one
be quite well done without.
One thing in connection with repatriation
stands out above all others—the inherent
depravity of mankind when there is a chance
of selling land to the State. The Vaughan
Government in S. Aus., completed onlv one
bargain of the kind. The land, just outside
Adelaide, was supposed to be for returned
men s homes. And then, when one cottage
had been put up as a sample, a flood came
aeropl-me C ° U d ° ’ V get t 0 5t per l,uat
Scaddans personality alone saved i-
fl'om being slaughtered instead of 1 ,
defeated when he went up for re-eU.t? ere y
Brown Hill-Ivanhoe, after joining t£° n al
Westrahan coalition. And Hudson m u<nv
ary Minister), who has been moved nn°" 01 '
the gap made by his old chief’s defeat "‘a,’
have a stiff fight to persuade the ink,!* 11
\ilgarn that they can’t hope to win tR
unless they vote for him. e " ai '
A recent gas attack by Joe Cook
After three years of this great world-war nf r,
1 1 on, we pause to take a brief survev Mvrial lbera '
from sacred graves call to us through the hWo 0 *
mist of the years to complete their task t an<l
gird up our loins and consecrate ourselves r " s
to the holy cause. We declare that whii« fr *? h
enemy is on the soil of our allies we will L le ttle
down our arms. 11 never by
No, we will hold them aloft with the wlrt
feather of voluntaryism in either hand. U<!
1 tactical l. nc. Sam didn t waste anv tim,
about it when he decided that it must be wa
Before he proceeded to organise even hU
medical service he set to work to organise h
accountancy service, and the professional
associations of experts were invited to sunn]
men who would do for the nation’s monel
something of what the doctors would nJ.
ently do for the nation’s men.
Dr. Arthur told Sydney Health Congress'
When I think of that wide gap in the r„ • ‘
Front, and of the urgency of the war probkm?*!
would have our Win the War Government throw
petty remedies to the wind and sweep alcohol com
pletely out of the country.
But, seeing that Russia is the only
Allied Power that did sweep alcohol “ CO nT
pletely out of the country,” the Bear doesn't
look like the best witness to call for c o ]d
There have been 3o Ministries since
Responsible Government was introduced to
N. S. Wales; and Holman’s (if y OU forget
the re-shuffle) is now the second-longest in
office. Reid's ’O4 Ministry lived 5 yens
48 days; Parkes’s ’7B lot defied Dibbs and
Stuart and Pat Jennings for 4 years 14
<lays. Holman took the job over from
McGowen on June 30, PJI3.
The latest exposition of the Win-the-War
policy of the Fusion was given by Hughes
at Melbourne;—
He was perfectly convinced that in our present
circumstances the voluntary system was the best
way to get recruits, lie would not say it was the
best way to get recruits in all circumstances but he
was going to say that it was the poliev of the Gov-
ernment. The circumstances under which Parliament
was elected were such as to demand that the Govern-
ment would realise that there was only the one wav
it could go, and that way it was going. Nothin?
could be more definite than that. g
Nor could anything be more definite than the
election cry of Hughes that the party which
advocated the voluntary system was com-
posed of traitors and lunatics; neither could
anything be more definite than the claim of
the “Nationalists” that they had a policy
for winning wars while the other crowd bad
nothing. Now Hughes appropriates the
policy of the other .side, and —well, the pub-
lic can get a, full view of the gold brick it
bought.
BILL JIM CALLS ON A TRENCH
COBBER.
PLAIN JEAMES: “Yes, sir, he’s at home. sir.
Have you a card, sir?”
BILL JAMES: “Card he-! Tell him
Curly’s come.”
From tlio annual report of the Sydney
Freetrade and Land Value Taxation League:
t’he world will he very poor when the war is over,
and unless freedom of trade is recognised in an
effort to get the hideous nightmare of war out of
our minds as soon as possible, there is great danger
of large numbers of people perishing of starvation.
In this way the Protectionists would give vis a so-
called peace scarcely less disastrous than the war.
1 lie Ilun will rejoice to learn that he still
has friends in Australia.
THE TRIUMPH OF FREEDOM
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lot us be free! Union is force a7id strength!
Smash down proud Capital and clear the way,
Till over all the wrecks we stand at length
Sole victors in the bitter human fray.
United, free and masters of the field
Because we would not flinch and did not yield !
Free? Well, as nearly free as we desire.
Some things we needs must do against our will.
For instance, we must strike when some conspire
The wheels that grind our daily bread to still.
And when we strike we hunger, yet through all
These mild restrictions we hear Freedom’s call.
Our food is dear. Our homes are not the best.
The clothes we wear are of the poorest kind.
Yet ragged pride in Freedom’s eagle nest
Is nursed remote from chains that once could bind.
Freed by the mighty weapon of the strike,
We can do all things—save the thing we like!
There is no boss whose orders we obey ;
“Go slow” is still the watchword of our toil;
No tyrant of the shops our march can stay ;
No carping foreman lurks our ease to spoil—
Though, when the union speaks, of course we know
Obedience is the force to break the foe.
We stand together. All employers note
The uniform and even front we keep.
Our leaders in their secret conclave vote
And make the balls we fire what time we sleep.
They do not boss us; but, to Freedom true,
They tell us all exactly what to do!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
for Australian HOMES
T/\B
CALLING VOIG
BY
EFChristie -*■-
Absorbing Novels by
the best Australian
Writers .
1/- each. ALL ONE PRICE. 1/1 posted.
THE CALLING VOICE.” Ry e p CHRISTIE.
One of the most charming and interesting novels of the Rush yet published
t here is a great fascination in Australian Bush life, and, in a story full of
incident and humor, the author shows how great that fascination is
‘THE PY JAMA MAN.”
A capital romance that originates ii
glamor of London theatrical life, ant
circumstances on a Monaro station.
By RALPH STOCK,
the surf, adjourns for a spell to the
eventually terminates in unconventional
‘LOVES OF LANCELOT.” By EDWARD DYSON.
A delightful series of episodes in the life of a young man in search of a wife
Sparkling with humor.
THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR-LAUNCH.” By ARTHUR 11. ADAMS.
The amusing adventures of a man who sought adventure on Sydney Harbor
and who is overwhelmed with all manner of strange situations.
‘A BACHELOR’S WIFE.” By M. FORREST.
A fascinating story of the extraordinary adventures that befell an English
immigrant girl. Desperate circumstances drive her headlong into most uncon-
ventionnl situations.
‘ROCKY SECTION.” By SYDNEY PARTRIGE.
A delightful romance of the Australian Outback.
‘A MAN OF SYMPATHY.” By HARRY TIGHE.
An unusual type of love story, full of interesting episodes.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street,
—SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.;
Some Good Regal Records at 21- each
7204
7205
6798
6834
6837
6850
6859
6861
6888
6890
6923
6939
7137
7140
7166
6333
6339
6781
6830
7171
7196
7201
6874
BANDS AND ORCHESTRAS.
( Selections from “Betty,” Part 1 Silver Stars Band
( Selections from “Betty,” Part 2
(Selections from “Bric-a-Brac,” Part 1 Regal Orchestra.
1 Selections from “Bric-a-Brac,” Part 2
VOCAL.
f Never Mind Doris Dean.
( Dove Me as You Used to Love Me
| The Wedding of the .Joy Bide tiirl Stanley Kirkby.
1 Algernon, Go Hon
S The Minstrel Boy Reed Miller.
1 A Life on the Ocean Wave B. Dudley.
j Merry Wedding Bells ’. Stanley Kirkby!
I Now, Are We All Here, Yes ~ Frank Bindley.
Parson and Me Stanley Kirkby.
I A Short Cut
j When the Pipers Played the Wedding Tune Jack Lorimer.
t There’s the Girl Who
I Patriotic Patrick Muldoon Stanley Kirkby.
( Sing a Song About a Sailor F. W. Ramsey.
1 AVe’re All. North Country Lads and Lasses Stanley Kirkby
I ’Twas an Old-fashioned Song He Was Singing ~ ~
( Same Sort of Mother and Same Sort of Child William Thomas.
| When I’m W'itli You
(Wondering Willie !. Walter Walters.
( The .Modest Curate
i Jeremiah Diddler Fred Bluett.
(Boy Scout Burlesque
( Somebody Knows, Somebody Cares
( Dawn Skies "ltoss Allen.
( All That I Ask
DUETS.
The Cubanola Glide *... Collins & Harlan.
Underneath the Monkey Moon ~
Here Comes My Daddy Collins & Harlan.
Underneath the Cotton Moon
You’re Here and I’m Here Kirkby & Courtney.
Who Paid the Rent for Mrs. Kip Van Winkle? Billy Watkins.
W atching the Boat Come In Carter & Carter.
There’s a Great Big Puff Puff Steaming Along to Me
Canoeing Xorah Green & William Thomas.
Little Miss Lancashire Xorah Green.
My Bird of Paradise Trevor & Thompson.
Dancing ’Neath the Irish Moon
The Aba-Daba Honeymoon Two Rascals & Jacobson.
Jane‘
SKETCHES.
( Jerry Jinks—Scallywag, Part I War Sketch.
( Jerry Jinks—Scallywag, Part 2 ~ ~
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S. A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Wehley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN. N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt. Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
E
A JSf
a *
F.CUADOR
----- ,s/,
peri:
-V /IAkPENTAK
BOLIVIA
SOUTH
WESTERN
4 U S
-,L A
T R AL-
AU STRALI A
.»>: IS
AUSTRALIA
TH
Albury
LJAtf
'C>
WORMS.
ONE NINE INCHES LONG AND ANOTHER FOUR
INCHES PASSED BY CHILD AFTER TAKING
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS.
The effective qualities of Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets have again been abund-
antly proved in the case of the young son
of Mrs. A. E. Bade, of 203 McKillop Street.
East Geelong, Vic. Mrs. Bade wrote us of
her own accord the statement published
below’, and has consented to allow it to be
published, and she w’ill have pleasure in
confirming the statements made therein.
Mrs. Bade w’rites: “I have great pleasure
in writing to you to let you know the satis-
factory results I had in usine your ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets for my young son. aged
14 years. He has been ailing for some time
and complained of pain in the spine and a
very sore stomach, and often in the night
would start vomiting without any warning
whatever. lie also had several fainting
turns. I became alarmed and took him to
the doctor, but the treatment did him no
good. I then thought I would try your
\\ orm Tablets, as to me he had every
appearance of worms. I procured a bottle
of them, together with a bottle of Indian
Root Pills, and commenced the treatment.
The second day after taking them he passed
a stomach worm nine inches long, and the
next day one four inches long Since then
he has picked up wonderfully and is twice
.the child he was. If he shows any signs
again I will not hesitate to try them, as I
was so pleased with the results. I am most
grateful to the proprietors of these tablets,
as my husband is away on Active Service
and the worry of our boy being so ill nearly
drove me mad. Thanking you again.”
STOMACH WORMS.
A MENACE TO CHILDREN.
Stomach worms are undoubtedly the most
invidious kind of all. They inhabit the
stomach and inflict great havoc upon their
victim. They deprive the victim of half the
nutriment he consumes, and when the
stomach is empty gnaw the sides of the
stomach, causing such terrible sensations as
to often cause faintness. Aperient medi-
cines have no effect upon them, for when
any purgative is taken they fasten them-
selves to the walls of the stomach by a
groove running down their side. The best
method of dislodging stomach worms is to
starve the system and take Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. The worms are
weakened by the want of food, and are
induced to take whatever is taken into the
stomach. Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets contain the properties which sicken
and disable the worms, and a dose of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills will clear them
out of the system.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 3s. (id. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.


The Kaiser’s hatred of democracy makes
him the natural foe of his own people’s
aspirations as well as of the civilised world,
affirms that royal spirit, King George IV.
topnotcli Scotch.—Advt.
No one can afford to waste.
Spend only what is necessary
and then always with an eye
to saving. Men, be practical
- economise shave your-
selves.
NO STROPPING NO HONING
One bought to-day will save many a
shilling in a year, and hours of your
valuable time. Many styles to
choose from. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. H<»ffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney. * *
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
TRADE
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey's Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUNJJ ?
LEWIS&wnITTy MAKERS
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
mission clocks
, iu so jafiA b & t:sr, d “rn , " ai^ OM,OT d ~ to -
Furniture. P>esent-daj Art Decorations and Mission
They about Miches 1 high W6athered ° ak and stained oak, and stand
Th VS to0 ’ and *» ei,ht days, and strike
excepted) foi-Tiw year ' ea ' N and keep them in order (breakages
We are displaying them in one of our windows.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Good, reliable movement,
in weathered oak case,
with gilt hands and flgin'ej.
striking hours and halt-
hours, 31/6.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
, long-, long Steeplechase at Caulfield
*ast Saturday bore further witness to the benefit that,
a fit gelding may gain from going sore and being
eased somewhat in his work before a big event.
CJaibye’s performance indicated that he was probably
all the stronger for the slowing-down in his prepara-
t ' on. the stable seemed to have some doubts as to
his being sufficiently wound-up for the four miles
and the books laid 10 to 1 at the finish, but the race
on the exceptionally muddy track was a triumph for
staying power. The field of 11 was reduced to six bv
the time it took the treble in front of the lawn for
the third time. The lightweights had come to grief,
and now' \an Homreigh clouted a fence hard enough
to shift his rider. A mile from home onlv Old
Mungindi, San Leandro, Caibye and Battleship looked
worth considering, for the Maoriland champion,
Waimai, had run himself to a standstill. Another
half-mile proved too much for Mungindi, who seemed
less at home in the_ sticky going than he was in the
fast-run Grand National a month earlier. Or per-
haps the 161 b. extra weight troubled him more, pro-
portionately, than the 81b. extra mattered to Caibye.
Anyhow', the National experiences of the two great
fencers were reversed. This time it was the ex-
hurdler that outstayed the N.S.W. horse, and was
left with only Battleship to beat. The Australian
steeplechase is Battleship’s annual dart, and that
wonderful pony among jumpers was going in his very
best form the form that won him the race two years
ago, and would have done the trick in the previous
year it he hadn’t kicked a log. Nevertheless, Caibye
took the lead from the little ’un before the last jump
and stayed there to the finish. Battleship had 261 b
the best of the weights, but the bigger and more
brilliant fellow w'as equal to the handicap, and he
won, to the complete satisfaction of all good sports.
Battleship has been a notoriously inconsistent per-
former all his days. Caibye is a pattern for his
species. He never ran a bad race over hurdles. As a
Steepler he has scored three wins and two seconds in
five starts.
The reward of consistent merit in Caibye,
the son of Caiman and Good Bye, will be absolutely
crushing weights in the future, one. supposes. The
jumping horses, as a rule, get worse treatment
;‘u 0m , tK ‘ ,I;l| :dicapper than the crack flat-racers. And
they have to get along without the solace of valuable
W.f.a. races.
Statistics for the just-ended Sydney racing
season show that Booth, of Rosehill, ran rings round
the other registered trainers. In the metropolitan
district he supplied 16 winners, 12 seconds and 10
thirds —one win more than the effort which landed
him on top in the previous year. These successes
reaped £4106 in prize-money. But turning out the
most numerous winners does not mean acquiring the
biggest wad, Prads trained by James Scobie (Vic.),
with five firsts and a second and third at Randwick,
headed the prize-money list with £9016. Of N. S.
Wales trainers H. ChippendalTs eight firsts, five
second and four thirds took most currency ( £6520
10s.). But how the 160 gee-gees with only one win
in the season paid their oats bill is something which
would take almost as long to explain as how much
the crowd which won nothing cost for maintenance.
There are good judges who reckon that
the Bronzino breed are going" to be heard from more
frequently as they increase in age and numbers. So
tar, the chances of Bronzino have been limited, but
such of his progeny as are racing have shown form
far beyond the ordinary. One of them again
attracted attention on Saturday at Moorefield (Syd-
ne.y). Bronzetti, who won at Flemington in the
Spring, winning from a very fair field of three-year-
olds in rather attractive fashion.
Was it out of gratitude for the solid sup-
port which defaulting- bank officials have been be-
stowing on Sydney racecourses that the Moorefield
Club last Saturday named one of the events the
Tellers' Handicap?
Maori Mat, winner of the Debutante Stakes
at Caulfield a couple of years ago, emerged from
seclusion on Saturday at Moorefield (Sydney) and
started at 25’s" with four others in a six-furlong
event. They were an ordinary lot, yet Maori Mat
saw them all home.
This page has a suspicion that one of these
days the whole field in a hurdle race at a Sydney
suburban meeting will collapse, and before the
wreckage can be cleaned up darkness will fall on the
scene and the rest of the proceedings will take place
by the light of the moon. The frequent falls and the
deplorable class of horse usually seen in these events
are the best of reasons for expecting the worst. On
Saturday at Moorefield there were 11 starters in the
Hurdles. Sgyen of them came down, and the end of
it all was the-arrival of a 20 to 1 chance which, until
a couple, of ...the nags tumbled over the last fence,
didn’t seem, to have a crow’s hope. The animals
which remained on their feet materialised at intervals
of a furlofflg or so. It was all about as exciting as a
ploughirgfjhatch.
All the imported horses don’t succeed.
Reflfern, which cost knight William Cooper over
£(>000 in England, hasn’t yet won a race in Aus-
tralia, and hap been scratched for all Spring events.
He has gone amiss in his training.
Hawker’s Cyklon, now retired to the stud,
commands the highest price among South Aus. sires,
viz-, 50 guineas. For the speedy St. Anton onlv 25
is asked, and for the still immensely successful
Pistol 30.
There was a brisk contest for the two
annual vacancies on the Adelaide Racin' l, Club’s com-
mittee, the two retiring men, Dr. Dennett and share-
broker Sydney Deach, being opposed by Loftus Moor-
house. It was a close go, but the old members were
re-elected, with Bennett at the top. This may be
regarded as the answer of those who know him best
to the attack lately made on him in Melbourne for
having started a horse before it was quite fit. As
this paper remarked at the time, if every owner
got into trouble for running a horse with no apparent
chance, fields would be very small. And .the sporting
writers actually encourage it, with their “not quite
wound up yet” and “a gallop in a race is worth a
dozen on the training-track.”
The V.R.C. appears to have given its
approval to a Totalisator Bill that is to be introduced
into the Vic. Assembly by someone as yet unspecified.
The Age exhorts the Legislature not to adjourn until
it has passed such a measure. This is all very well;
but everything depends upon the terms. If
the measure is drafted on the lines followed in N. S.
I\ ales, where the machine can be used by any old
thing' calling itself a racing club, and where it has
been thrown in as a side-line, with Israel still going
strong, the duty of the Legislature to give it the
boot will be emphatic. If the measure imposes definite
resrictions on the use of the machine, rubs They clean
out and devotes the bulk of the commission to its
legitimate purpose - of providing stake money, then
and then only will it be worth while. But it is no
good for the Age dismiss as absurd the argument
that if the fielder is abolished men will defy the
law by laying tote odds or to assert that the machine
will exterminate ante-post betting. Defence of the'
totalisator rests on neither of these contentions. The
cold truth is that the machine must inevitably bring
the tote-odds merchant into the game and that the
prevalence of ante-post betting has nothing to do
with the machine. The tote-odds fiend is as hard to
get rid of as pricklv-pear. But what of it, anyhow ?
The change will be all for the best even if perfection
is missed.
* * * *
J. O’Shea heads the list of winning jockeys
on the flat in Maoriland this year, having steered
68 mounts to victory during the season. Of course
he had a lot of good horseflesh beneath him, being
chief pilot to Desert Gold. Over sticks the most
successful navigator was L. Traill, but Traill’s riding
days are ended. He had a bad smash-up a month
or two back, and is now navigating a taxi for hire
through the tornadoes of Wellington.
* * * *
The year’s racing in Maoriland turned in
£11,029 to the owner of Desert Gold, and Lowry
had already more money than he knew what to do
with. Others who appropriated serviceable helpings
from the stake department were: G. L. Stead £8640
(brother W.G., who did very well with Kilboy and
Sasanoff in Australia in the Springtime, lifted
£3560), Clifford £6513, Greenwood £6261 and
Ormond £6130. None of these people worry much
at any time about the cost of living. G. L. Stead’s
best money-spinner was The Toff, who captured £4255
and is now at Randwick preparing to go in pursuit of
more. The Greenwood nags have been in Australia
for several weeks.
It is now definitely stated that the Maori-
land sportsman Lowry is sending. Desert Gold across
to run at Randwick and Flemington, and that if the
mare trains on she will be a starter in the Mel-
bourne Cup. Unless there is something out of the
ordinary among the English-bred horses imported to
Australia last season, Lowry’s flier ought to make
oats if she is as good as her home form alleges.
Anyhow, the number of really top-class Australian
horses in sight up to the time the animals had
another birthday was not particularly impressive.
Donald Fraser, of Rangitkei (M.L.). the
breeder of Advance, is dead. Several battalions of
the fleetest nags of Maoriland passed through his
Pukuhoe farm, and the boss rode a fair percentage
of them. He once had a shot at politics, and being
twitted on defeat for the Rangitkei seat retorted
that he “would rather have bred Advance than be
Prime Minister/’ Donald’s good gospel was to breed,
train, race and ride them. He was 83 when he
weighed in.
“Punga were were”: G. P. Donnelly, the
Hawkes Bay (M.L.) sportsman who died last week,
had all the Irishman’s love for a good horse, and
particularly a “lepper.” Born in Tipperary, he
went to Maoriland in 1862 ; and for many years his
colors have been prominent on the racecourses of
ihe Shivery Islands. He owned Mangahone when
that animal won the Hawkes Bav and Napier
Steeplechases in 1887 and the M.L. Grand National
in 1888, and liotuku, winner of the Napier Park
Stakes in 1890. Oingo won the Hawkes Bay Guineas
for him. Donnelly was part-owner of Douglas when
the horse carried off the Wanganui and Hawkes Bay
Cups. Many of the gallopers which sported his
colors were bred by himself at C'rissoge, near
Hastings. He and his wife (a native woman of
high birth) visited England in 1904, and did what-
ever people do when they are presented to cabbages
and kings.
•* *-**
The Government of India has just handed
the India Turf Club and the Calcutta ditto permis-
sion to promote a series of war lotteries that make
Tattersall’s look as humble as poker at Id. rises.
The lotteries are to’ be conducted in connection with
well-known gee-gee events in different parts of the
world. The price of a ticket is to be 10 rupees
(13s. 4d.), and each sweep is to provide 1000 prizes,
the first being worth a comforting £66,6061
A country paper tells this one. When
Tom Ske.vhill. the blind soldier, was lecturing, at
Kvogle (N.S.AV.) he gave the caretaker of the School
of Arts a ss. tip. The caretaker said it was the
first he had ever received on his present job, so he
invested it in Tatt.’s. The ticket drew the winner
in the Grand National Hurdles, and the ss. was
changed into £5OOO or so.
* * * *
Before Albert Lloyd and Jimmy Clabby
commenced hostilities at Svdney Stadium on Satur-
day the heavyweight championship was said to be at
stake. How that corlrl be when Lloyd was recently
beaten by Dave Smith and Jimmy had been van-
quished (or something) by Tommy Uren Heaven only
knows. But as championships are nowadays talked
about with the same glib irresponsibility as strikes,
it doesn't matter much. The fight was quite good of
its kind. Lloyd fought with rather more resolution
and understanding than hitherto, and Clabby did his
best, which is not quite as good as it was in days
gone by. The one has all the advantages of youth
and vigor, and has not yet learned to make the best
use of them. The other has the advantage of long
experience and onee-splendid skill, and squeezes the
last ounce out of both. In the last round he missed
getting Lloyd’s scalp by the width of a whisker. The
verdict was a draw —and about right. Whether they
share the championship between them or what
happens now to it has not been explained.
The winners of the Bracelet Purse and
Blacktown Stakes, run the other day at Rooty Hill
(N.SjW.), were provided by a white-haired old
gentleman who wears a black coat, a soft gloomy hat
and a clerical collar. Blue Colleen and Achieved did
the thrick. The final for the Toongabbie Stakes was
interesting. The last two dogs slipped were Dong
and Factious Hope, which took a great dislike to the
proceedings and tried to eat one another. On the
restoration of order Factious Hope got away alone
and had a solo sprint to the escape. She had been
favorite, and the owner of the other animal offered to
divide; but the proprietor would have none of it.
Wherefore the pair were slipped, and Dong, being
made favorite this time, duly won. The winner of
the St. Leger, Comedy Chief, an October, ’l5, puppy,
may be heard of in big stakes next year.
**'•**
The inter-State test, one of the more
important coursing events of the year, will happen at
Corowa, on the Murray, next week. Salonica and
White Verse have been chosen for the N.S.W. team,
and the other pair will be selected from Beauty Spot,
Achieved, Corsair and Comedy Chief. Victoria’s reps,
are to be Brown Hawk (winner of the last two
Waterloo Cups), All Comedy, Anxious Pennant and
Jumbunna King. If Beauty and the Hawk get
together on a first course, the time will probably be
ripe for the hare to sprout a pair of wings.
“Jim Carraway”: The longtailed litter
from which Brown Beauty, the Vic. Waterloo Cup
dual winner, was culled as the best looking has won
over £lOOO in stakes and trophies during the past
two seasons. The owner is a Golden Square (Ben-
digo) enthusiast; but the champion is leased to
Carlyon, a Spencer-street (Melb.) pub-keeper. Ben-
digo district has littered a lot of good dogs during
the last few seasons, though coursing is as dead there
as Julius Caesar. “Doping” helped to kill it. But
the dogs are still bred by enthusiasts who hope for
a return of the palmy days some time.
Billy Mackrell, who died at Auckland
(M.L.) recently, was one of the famous “All Black”
XV which piled up football records in the tour
through Australia and England in 1905. Another
player to pass out some time back was George Deans.
Mackrell was a burly chap who found joy in the front
row qf scrums. The harder the play the more he
liked it. Paralysis beat him at 36.
* * * *
Another of Sydney’s crack shots with a
rifle has been wounded on the western field. This
time it's D. McAlister, a King’s Prize winner.
Q. L. Deloitte, again president of the
N.S.W. Rowing Association, is the Methuselah of the
pastime. Over half a centurv ago George Thornton
Dick Driver, P. R. Holdsworth, Dick Harnett and
Deloitte launched the Australian Subscription Rowing
Club, the first in Sydney; later, it swelled into the
Sydney Rowing Club, and Deloitte was its first cap-
tain. That was in 1870, and the old chief’s enthu-
siasm grows heartier as the years rush past. By the
way, 954 members of the Rowing Association have
got into khaki, and 87 of them have put the proud
club into mourning.
Last week s play in the- match between
Gray and Fred Lindrum, at Alcoek’s Parlor (Melb.),
was mainly an exhibition of pretty billiards by the
Australian champion whilst George Gray was slowlv
recovering his form at the red hazards. Had Lin-
drum done his best in that direction he would have
run right away from the pale young specialist. When
Geong:e is himself again, and is making terribly long
breaks with the accuracy of a machine, he will be
up against the fact that the Lindrum brethren can
do likewise when put to it. Especiallv Little
\Valter. Idle left-hander, it seems, is open' to play
Gray , level at the “all in” game, or give him 4000
in 18,000 with the red hazard barred or limited. A
match between the pair will be attractive which-
ever way it is arranged.-
“Con Drew” : I will back mv blind man
to give “Jimmy’s” marvel (B. 9/8/’l7) 10 on. He
is a well-known Sydney gambler, and may be seen
punting in the Leger at any of our metropolitan
raee-meetjngs. He also attends the boxing contests
and wagers on the results. But he shines most at
the faro table, where the “case” keeper calls the
cards as they fall. I have seen him placing his
money in all the playing positions—ace, deuce
behind the pictures, in the pot, top square, etc.,
w ithout assistance, and at this joint, mind you the
cards are painted on the oilcloth table-cover.
“0.J.W.” : Ob, yes, the fox is earning quite
a. reputation as a slayer of A greyhounds. Another
example of how he does it. Recently a settler was
.going through Pleasant Plains (North Coast,
N.S.W.) with a well-known powerful half-bred grey-
hound, known to annihilate dingoes and kangaroos
with comparative ease. The hound started a male
fox in a belt of scrub, and, bringing him out to the
open, began on what he expected to be a long
inn. After going a short distance the fox, in execu-
tion of his first trick, wheeled to the right The
hound, accustomed to the lighter game, intercepted
the enemy, threw him and seized him by the throat.
But the thick fur caused the hound to lose his hold
whereon the fox immediately snapped the dog’s upper
jaw, embedding his two fangs in its nose, thus pin-
nmg it helplessly. There is little doubt that if
help hadn t been at hand the vermin’s teeth would
have remained locked until the dog was ready for a
funeral This fox measured 4ft. 9in. from tip' to tip.
“Te Babarantiko”: Has ever another so
large a fish been caught with such small tackle? In
June, 1899, the old s.s. Archer, then flying the cir-
cular-saw flag of the Pacific Islands Co. and now
carrying cargo to and from the Hunter (N.S.W.)
River, was on a dull, dark night hanging on to the
reef at Baker Island, a guano dot 13 miles north of
the Equator and 600 miles east of the Gilbert group
The chief engineer was playing over the stern with
a trout nne and small salmon hook. Presently it
seemed to liim that he had caught th„
but he was promptly undeceived shl P' 9 rudder
to a large shark which was slowlv +?,- w ? s attache,!
surface with the ridiculous toy hook in S" 8 0n th
of its upper lip and evidently wonrW; ver -''
tickling him. Before he could fl nd "i 8 " ha t wa
bowline had been made around the aX a ru nni n ,,
fall suddenly over the water-soli^’*to
noose slid with ease along the tapering fc Tfc
jerk tightened it around his tail tk and a
Laid hold and in a jiffy the monster huiT han,ls
after tairlead making painful attemnts 8 ? mst the
head in disapproval. Daylight showed h; Shake Ms
shovelnose nine feet long. (l hlm to be a
“Matt’: Washed up on the beach u
Hayward’s Point and Pillan’s Head uu el ®t®
the Old Man Octopus of the Southern « rccer >tlv,
wasn’t the oldest it was its fatherL If it
its species seen by the present generati™?? l of
Prank Bullen and other yarn-spinners tel nf
it was dull-white, with pink tinges nn t!
tentacles. The body, was Bft. long' ln ,f an(l
and tentacles measured 1 Oft. The t
3cwt. it was a lump of leather-like 4kti -
had grown a thousand times harder than hT " hifll
octopus which is good bait for jewfish—
uncanny a husk as the sea has ever thrS j®' as
* * #
If a recent Hobart magistrate’s decision
stands, owners who lure out craft to fisherm™.?
have to keep both eyes open. Two defend? 6 ," " 1 ”
crew of the fishing' vessel Volito th, ‘
and costs for illegally using crayfish £s
Schouten’s Passage. Then it was the tun? ?
Volito’s registered owner. He was asked tn „°J , ll ? e
why, the previous defendants having potted ? aui
with liis boat, the craft, dingy, gear and f,, *
shouldn’t be forfeited. Evidently his ox/dan ure
that he vyasn’t a party to the 'potting—waS'
quate, and the magistrate said he had no onti™\ .
to order forfeiture. All the same, he advised
ant to worry the Supreme Court and ask i f
exactly define the liability of a boat’s owner forth
unauthorised acts of the people aboard of her «u
Volito is valued at £6OO.
The ease revives an old argument—do mvfu
pots do any harm ? The Tasmanian Fisheries rZ
missioners’ contention is that the pots break !
and act as perpetual traps for the crays the bn,i
of one acting as bait for others. The fishermen ren -
that immediately the batf is gone the fish dim
out of the trap, and that a trap left down for 1
week will in every case be milled up empty Thw
maintain also that nets allow them to fish in four
or five fathoms of water only, and that the erav -
mostly found at greater depths. The whole auestion
of Australian fisheries should be taken over by C
Federal authorities. If crayfish pots are injurious
on the Tasmanian coasts they are just as bad in
mainland waters, and there the pots are allowed
But apart from this matter altogether a change is
required in the Tasmanian Fisheries Commission
The .members are mostly harmless old gentlemen
interested in trout fishing.
“H.E.W.”: “P.W.” is quite right (B
2/8/1,) m doubting “Hryander’s” statement that
the recoil of the .44 Winchester is 481 b. It j s
about 1-10th of that, or approximately 4.sib No
American-made rifle has a recoil approaching 481 b
the heaviest being the 281 b. of the .405 Winchester'
according to a table in C. Askjns’s “Rifles and Rifle
Shooting.” A weapon with a 481 b. kick would he
about right to plug a bull elephant with, but no i
man in the world could fire it continuously all day
let alone make accurate shooting at glass halls
thrown into the air. All these trick shooters use
the same type of weapon, a heavy rifle with a light
powder charge, which is accurate over a short range
and lias a very slight recoil.


v*
WITH HEALTH EVERYTHING
IS A SOURCE OF PLEASURE
—without it, nothing else, whatever it may be, is enjoyable.
Even the other personal blessings—a great mind, a happy
temperament—are degraded and dwarfed for want of it.
Everything should be made secondary to health.”
There’s no reason why you should not be healthy—Nature
intended you to be so.
The various organs of your body have certain functions to
perform. It is your duty to see that these organs are not
overtaxed or run down, which will prevent them from
properly fulfilling their respective functions. For instance,
constipation, indigestion and other disorders of the system
are the direct result of your internal muscles being much
below normal—failing in their duty.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them back to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best of health ? Then why
not write to-day for full particulars of my
POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH AND STRENGTH CULTURE?
This is proof of what I say:—
Dear Sir, —I am writing to you to let you know how
I am getting on after a month’s course of your
Physical Culture. I am feeling splendid, and must say
I am very pleased with the result of the exercises. 1
have gained ,101 b. in weight, and am feeling really
well. (Signed) P.D.R., Dookie (Victoria).
Many hundreds of letters from pupils all over Australia
and New Zealand are in the same strain.
I should like you to have my booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF CULTURE,” which tells about my
methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement, and send it to me with three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
638 BELMONT BUILDINCS, SYDNEY.
v.
In Any
Condition
m
BENZINE
'S RELIABLE
> F^ELLA]
"the spirit”
OF THE WAR
THE ENEMY OF
BRITISHERS
ENEMIES.
SHEL
BENZINE
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
i
with Pleasure.
Catalogue "D
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. ITS:
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
PAT QN
8297
ust **um
QLOKy
“Australian dory ”
Egyptian Cigarettes.
Just Landed
Another Shipment of these
Choice Cigarettes, the
product of Nestor Gianaclis
Ltd., Cairo.
We were fortunate to land this shipment at the old price, consequently the price is
as usual, viz.:—
8/6 per 100. Postage paid.
Why not try a packet of 10? Forwarded anywhere for 1/-
fi obbl.o Wbito, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
"The Old Established House,*’
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
&
%
2<*59
H
Business houses using Motor Vehicles in the trans-
portation of tlieir merchandise are adopting
NATIONAL
BENZINE
N
in ever-increasing numbers, because they find that National gives
an absolutely unequalled service of running satisfaction, with decided
economy “National” Benzine is a pure, clean spirit, consistently
yielding 100% OF POWER; consequently it always assures greatest
driving force, and the certain economy of more miles to the gallon.
“National” gives the same service of perfection with EVERY type
of motor. ,
YOU can effect big savings in YOUR delivery department by adopt-
ing the “National” Spirit as your standard fuel.
Obtainable all Oarages
and Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
lIMM
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
111! Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION —Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
m.
m
mm
IS/
V/A
Ik.
&-/II "i >YM
' S wik
Riding Trousers that will not fit
you perfectly are not worth buying
ANY man who has done only a little Riding knows the importance
of having Riding Trousers and Breeches absolutely correct in
every detail. A little too much room here, not quite enough
there, pockets not in just the right position, not quite enough “rise,
and what endless annoyance and discomfort will result.
The Moral is—Have your Riding Garments made to Order by a Tailoring Firm that
understands horsemen’s needs in this direction. “L.S.” Riding Trousers at 12/6 are
“LINCOLN-STUART” TAILORED TO ORDER
They are made in Military Drills of Supreme Suitability for Saddle Use, and are
guaranteed to give satisfactory service. We have specialised for years in the produc-
tion of Riding Wear, Patterns are Post Free. Now, To-day, is not too soon to write.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. PTY. LTD., Flinders St., Melbourne


Learn to
DRAW!
“There’s Money
in the Pen.”
The above is the
title of our booklet,
which tells about
the possibilities of
Drawing—both as
a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
b v HA 1? R Y J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous com-
mercial artist.
w
It explains the difference between learning
to COPY and to DRAW. It points out
the pitfalls to be avoided by the beginner.
It explains in clear, concise language what
the Weston Course is, and why Weston
tuition is the niQst successful.
There's no reason why YOU could not earn
good money as an artist. The ability to
draw can be acquired if your inclination is
strong enough to follow the scientific prin-
ciples laid down in the Weston Postal Course
of Drawing.
Send three per.nv stamps to-dav for a copy
of this booklet—“THEßE’S MONEY IN THE
PEN.”
The Harry J. Weston
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
15 Waltham Buildings,
24 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
'THE Walsliaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank call now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Dally Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street. Brisbane; or
193 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that
will restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a
few days’ time merely by the application
of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from
your chemist two ounces of tammalite con-
centrate and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply this to the hair a few times
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradu-
ally darkening to the desired shade. The
lotion is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and
does not injure the hair in any way. fl
A Perfect
Custard.
(The NAVY BRAND*)
%
*
a
K
o
3 Tfc
Powder
VANILLA „
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO.,
Pure Food Specialists, SYDNEY.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.,
BRISBANE,
Sole Queensland Agents.
Do All Your
Polishing and
Finishing with
1
f!
Is
IT imparts a perfectly hard, dry,
glasslike polish of great beauty
and durability. Protects the
original finish from, dust, grime
and dampness, adding years to
its life.
A Dust-Proof Polish
Johnson’s Prepared Wax never becomes sticky
or tacky in the hottest weather or from
the heat of the body. It does not gather
dust or show finger prints.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared
Wax for keeping dining room tables bright
and tempting. Hot dishes do not affect it m
the slightest.
Have Your Piano and Mahog'
any Furniture a Bluish,
Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently
removed with Johnson’s Prepared Wax—
The Dust-Proof Polish.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is dean and easy to
use and economical. No tools or brushes
required—all you need is a soft cotton rag.
Keep a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos. Piano Woodwork
Floors Furniture Motor Car
For sale by all good dealers or
obtainable from
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street Sydney. N.S. W.
n o o o o o o o o o o n 1
M
If
■■i
'J
00.0. OOOOOOOOOOOn.O.nfIOOOOO. OQOOOOOOOOODOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOODOOOOO
non
"v
OOGOOOO-(10000000'OO0OODOOO00ODDOOOOOOOO0OOPO0O0DOOO.0DDPODUOOOO 000000000 0 0 o on offooooo
OaVONVAS'S'O
t-L
?////
cn
&
tr»
I
c_
co
C3>
H
GO£i
tn
N*
D
Z
50
ft
*7
3>
>
O
m
8
5
!'■
VJ
g*
/bonouoo.ooaooonoono ooaooooooooooi
111 HI t f I I t I
s**<
Carry an Onoto with you!
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fill*
itself in a flash, cleans itself in the act of filling,
and contains sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
Ki-vt-r leaks-always writessmoothly—and isalwaysreacn
tor writing. Can be filled from any ink supply without
a filler, without mess or trouble, in five seconds.
Onoto
Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
British made by British labour.
Price, 14 6 and upwards. At all
. Stationers, Jewellers. Stores, etc.
Manufacturers— Thomas de la Rt
• Co. LTD.,Bunhill Row. London. Iv •
Managing Agents—Norman Bake
Longhurst. York Street, Sydney-
F fl 6s. 6d. you can have Tiif
Bulletin sent regularly to vou every
week for a year to any address in Australasia
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 lOs*
per annum, post free. Cheques, d ’
and all business communication ge
addressed to The Manager, -
Street. Sydney.
Mick Simmons. Ltd. (Sydney), who sell
tobacco, haircuts, fish-hooks and sporting
goods, and began as a co. six years ago with
£20,677 of the capital represented by good-
will and other hypothetical assets: —
Written Towards De-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, licit.
1911.. £20,677
1912 . . £12,268 10p.c.= £BOOO £1132 £3136 17,541
1913.. 13,128 10 ~ „ 9000 1381 2747 14,794
1914.. 13,295 10 „,, 9000 1555 2740 12,054
Added to goodwill, £BBO. . 12,934
1915.. 15,533 10 p.c. = 9000 1565 4968 7,966
Added to goodwill, £738. . . • 8,704
1916.. 16,166 10 p.c.= 9667 2080 4419 4,285
Transferred to capital, £ 10,000. . 14,285
1917.. 12,955 8 p.c. = 8800 2215 1940 12,345
It's a good wind that blows nobody a cold.
The directors of this co. report that “in-
ability to obtain full supplies from overseas,
together with the military embargo on the
sale of firearms and ammunition, was respon-
sible for a decrease in turnover.” Still, the gross
trading profit compared well with that of
preceding years: 1915, £50,872; 1916,
£55,44.9; 1.917, £55,201. Increased exes.,
largely the outcome of industrial awards,
were responsible for the diminished profit.
Salaries and wages have moved from £18.223
in 1915 to £21,287 in 1916, and on to £7:3,747 in
the past year; and branch exes, and general
charges (the latter including insurance,
travelling exes., rent of principal premises,
advertising, etc.) are also greater. The
trouble in connection with most trading con-
cerns will be that, while turnover is bound
to be less and profits liable to be cut, the
industrial awards will stand, for some time
at least. But Mick Simmons’s is likely to
suffer less than most so far as turnover is
concerned. Indeed, the home-coming of the
Australian army will land back many thou-
sands of the best customers of such stores.
An investment of this sort has to' be
viewed from two angles: as to (1) the
security of principal and (2) prospects of
profits. Capital is now £llO.OOO, including
£lO.OOO of reserved profits lately capitalised ;
and liabilities are £31.893. Total £141.893.
Against that there is no less than £91,267 in
stodk ; other assets include £19.770 in plant
and fixtures, £17.535 in book debts and
£5445 in cash and sundries; total £134.017
—exclusive of goodwill, trade marks and
leases. Much depends on the valuation of
the stock. If conservatively taken, it should
be as good as cash. In some cases, in fact, it is
better; and with imports cut down hard, as
they are at present, it is likely to be so in
this instance. That the valuation of assets
is conservative one can only judge by the
fact that the co. writes off over £2OOO a
year (in the past year £2215) against depre-
ciation of fixtures and plant—say 10 p.c.
p.a. As for profits, they depend upon man-
agement, especially in a business such as
this, scattered over many branches. A turn-
over may be secured by advertising, coupled
with a good trade name; but it takes some-
thing more than turnover to make a profit.
And unfortunately (or other people may
think fortunately) management beyond this
generation is a thing you can’t guarantee.
You have only to turn up a business direc-
tory of 30 years ago and compare it with
one of to-day to have your eves opened to
that.
* * * *
The Northern Steamship Co. ( Auck-
land. M.L.) :
Added to
March. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1905 .. £7,127 7 p.c. = £6,905 £222 £40.456
Withdrawn.
1906 .. 5,724 7 „ „ 6,905 1181 39,275
• Added.
1907 . . 15,628 7 „ „ 8,681 6947 46,222
Withdrawn.
1908 .. 5,561 7 „ „ 8.681 3120 43,102
1909 .. 3,810 7 „ „ 9,515 5705 37,397
1910 .. 11,213 7 „ „ 11,277 64 37,333
Added.
1911 .. 17,465 7 ~ „ 11,299 6166 43,499
1912 - . . 15,852 7 „ „ 11,299 4553 48,052
1913 .. 13.559 7 .. „ 11,299 2260 50,312
1914 . . 12,583 7 „ „ 11,299 1284 51,596
Withdrawn.
1915 .. 9,139 7 „ „ 11,299 1860 49,736
Added.
1916 .. 15,164 7 „ „ 11,299 3865 53.601
Withdrawn.
1917 .. 8,115 7 ~ „ 11,299 3184 50,417
Or you can put it another way if'you like,
and call the net profit for the year £11,665.
The accounts show that £3550 disappeared
from the old insurance and renewal reserves
plus anything that may have been added to
them out of the past year’s earnings. The
directors make no comment on the figures
and don't explain how it is that the profit
shows up so poorly in a year in which
Maoriland has been wallowing in a prosper-
ity that it would be much better without.
Besides the formal reserves there is a depre-
ciation fund of unknown dimensions: out of
the profits an unspecified amount is annually
written off the book values of vessels and
equipment. The P. and L. account purports
to show the fair annual profit after making
necessary provision for this depreciation and
for insurance and special renewals; and
taking those figures this is the history of the
past ID years:—
1908 .. v 8,787 I 1913 ..£11,138
1909 .. 9.259 | 1914 .. 11,003
1910 ..* 11.252 I 1915 .. 11,203
1911 .. 11,696 1916 .. 12,327
1912 .. 11.627 1917 .. 11,655
Meantime, however, much more capital has
been put into the business; so that the im-
provement is not what it seems. Here are
the balance-sheet figures:—
1907. 1912. 1916. 1917.
Capital . . £124,017 £161,412 £161,412 £161,412
Liabilities .. 49,972 18,742 61,662 64,248
Ships, etc. .. 198.226 201,168 234,728 236!a86
Premises, etc. 5,606 4,923 4,890 4,801
Other assets.. 20,751 27,772 42,716 40^383
The “other assets" which have grown nearly
£20,000 in the ID years are chiefly stores
and book debts, including agents’ balances.
On the figures the 7 p.c. dividend is just
about- as much as the co. can conveniently
manage.
For many months past Australian wol-
fram and molybdenite producers have had to
sell their product at most unfair prices.
Complaints were made to the Prime Minister
without effect. Then the Queensland Gov-
ernment made representations to the British
Government, which was apparently aston-
ished that a request hadn't been made long
ago for the current rates, or thereabouts.
Anyway, a new scale of prices was immedi-
ately authorised.


f?r
0$
N
is*'»
km
\*s
;
? i
m
*
m
¥.
n\w.mmm'
r *?
*■
W/:
WV?
fi
•- -.. i ■
* f ■ Sp*f
ss
mm
I’i-A
'■***4,
filF
$
2&.#
?*&>:
.-* * 4 . <
S®
k
L > V*>W'
°>7
as*: .'wij
■x
? *52-^
r ;
/ 2
3&*.
25**X
/,\
tt' X
U J,
». a > s if, / *■-*&**■.>
•A*!
*r .
H r A
U'Z
Jh>
h
v \
f€.
s \ ''■ \■ \ \
r■% f |
si, ,- <£
.1 / , ,'i
Ki
,*. r% ■ »
/l V ih
ii, /,/:?.
L '|| 1 I
*ssv X
4H >4
,Vf A
¥
Rißv,
Mtf . \ \ _
//' •
• k \,
W
tk I ', ■
■SK
I.- *v 4 ; ■ *!w*i
M
'1
jMm
'?
'm
in
hil\\\ a%. Hi! SL' H&pfK'tL i
A
' ' V; <7v :
filSc
MSmWi i
f "'j&n
i
gx W
-railmwl >
;i X
fV:
l
m ■'
>s^
3?
m^*M A
■ .
! A
:
5Z33L/1U i 1"
l\
\
' . , '
'. ' " V, \
< - ; - .j r ---- ‘•‘V.k /
arcaroue
c
\%l
man
o
u
es
rori i
r PHIS charming selection —perhaps not intrinsically a very
A great composition —has spread the sweetness of its
haunting strains over the whole world. It possesses a depth
of feeling so elusive that frequently the finer effects are
lost. In its execution the expression is its all.
With a Beale Player-piano you will
find that it is not at all hard to play
music with characteristics similar to
the “Barcarolle.” It is an instrument
essentially responsive to one’s best
musical thoughts, and is so sympa-
thetic that complete, soul-satistying
rendition becomes almost instinctive.
Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
ecue
s>o?
LJV
George
ysa
Sydney
|- dCtori"s:
41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET,
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
. . , r ~ \v/ . Victoria ’ Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.. Hobart.
A „ d . B—. Q „„,„,„ d 1 W « Queen Brisbane. Ken, Sl.eel.
Flinders Sl.ee,. Townsville Roekhamplon. Sydney 51.ee,. Maelay.
Maples. Launceston


MI")
Can’t Get Going
For that “Full Stomach Feeling’’ and drowsy
headachy condition, with burning sensation of
the throat, which are the after-effects of over-
eating and excess drinking, there is nothing to
equal ■■■ ■ a
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIO
Five to ten drops in a wineglassful of water,
after meals is a great aid to the digestion.
Dear Sirs, Declared on oath.
1 suffered from acute inflammation of the
stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue got
a thick coating over it and 1 constantly suffered
from Nausea. In three weeks Fishers Phos-
pherine completely cured me. Five to ten
drops always takes away a sour taste in the
mouth, and keeps my stomach in regular order.
Thomas Forsyth.
The speediest remedy for
Indigestion, Headache, Neu-
ralgia, Muscular Rheumatism,
Nervousness and Anaemia.
FRESH and POTENT, Prepared Dally.
All Chemists and Stores.
1/- per Bottle. Four times the quantity, 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W. Fl3lp
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed .and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing- Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
nin j ol ... . a »d powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustißems, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing, on every occasion,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
Tel. 301 G City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following firms,
rife or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth
St., Melbourne; K. It. Kussaek, 377 a
Elizabeth St., Sydney; Philip Frankei
and Co., Edward St., Brisbane; Eyes
and Crowle Etd., Pirie St., Adelaide;
tieo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., Perth’
W.A.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres :
*22
•280
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Missing l<'rien<]s.
JOSEPH TEARE, known as “Jos.” son
of Joseph and Margaret Teare. last
heard of in Collie. West Australia, employed
as Government Horse Boss, and afterwards
as a groom, worked about Worsley. Present
address required or proof of his death (if
dead). Something to his advantage on
application to
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO. LTD..
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
vs
The BULLETIN
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The"BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
The two most popular of our mnn„
eomfortahte saddles. They both haw
I'.gsk.n *eat the “GS” short panel with
leather points, long flaps and long girth
straps. They are IJOTH fitted with
Mu raps, Girth, leathers and Surcingle
£6 16 6 each, or £6 10 - without
Surcingle. 3 6 Less if Stirrups not required
SHORTAGE Or STIRR I'PS.—Custoni..r«
will help if they will use their old stinriw
until matters improve.
.FREIGHT FREE FOR CASH TO any
I’OUT OR RAILWAY STATION i„ jj S
Wales. For so <i extra for easing wo will send
freight free to any direct port in Queensland
Victoria, South Australia or N.Z.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 12/6, PosM -
SADDLECLOTH 6/6, Post 1 .
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLEItV
AND HARNESS. ""
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS, !%!!', SYDNEY.
BOOTS are the smart wear for the season
—Dame Fashion has cast that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
'fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
in the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
’act, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try it on. and see how nice it looks
i»id how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjov walk-,
picnics and .excursions in the most' blazinu
weather.
Bostock No.
■
a
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.’’
A charming selection of Bostock shoes
always on view at all leading stores.
832
RUY the British White Stocking
to-day “ Jason ” Elite—of all
Drapers.
Try the cooling, skin-soothing effect of this
Jason hot-weather wear, a very special
r r earin 8 the Jason Brand, which guarantees
e nest, silkiest “ finish ever put on a stocking,
ear Jason because of their quality, their entirely
nis make, and the satisfaction ensured by the
99
*4
Quality Stockings & Socki for Ladiei, Children & Men.
Fine t s r t a woven Sho . W ? the ■' J4so " ,, EHte Stocking,
instep Tod ?!1 lain i n V S ! rCerised lisle le »> ankle &
strengthen e S WO ,°l 3in ‘ double top. Specially
D "® ® d 0l f ° ot ’’ 10 cham P a ene. black & white.
f a oa-n 30 everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
JASON HOSIERY CO., LEICESTER, ENG.
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
and sports.
PRIZES value
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 3, 1917
Ist Prize.vtlue|6 5 O;2nd Prize,value £3oo
3rd Prize, value £2OO ;
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1917 T rv it
C. Lougton, Shinlev , F rst Prize in 1916 was won by Mrs.
Pley ’ Bla ckheath. N.S.W., for the modest outlay of
Trades Hall, Sydney,
tickets from
local agent
One ShiLing.
ARTHUR W. YAGER,
Secretai'V.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken ro contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Sandy : You mournfully complain that you
found on opening the cover of The Bulletin you
pinched that it contained “only two (.blushing] War
Cries." Shandy, we know nobody in more urgent
need of the lessons contained in our worthy con-
temporary ... .Corowa: Sorry, can't advise. ... Sophie
L. (Eng.): Hope so —if the said peace pie is not
oooked and cut before Australia and the other
“younger sons” can get at it Andy: The Candi-
date is finally wrecked.... Morpheus: One old, the
other not up... . Obe: No, the time hasn't expired
yet. (Between’ you and us, we don’t think, it ever
will expire.) . . . .Bellerive: Nine people out of 10 who
attempt to write poetry mistake the muse for a maze
and think the more they lose themselves the better
they are doing. You don’t make that mistake. We
Bevel in the plain downright ness of this piece especi-
ally:—
THE OUTLAAV.
Vivid lightning flashed
Vnd thunder did roar,
When at a breakneck pace
Rode a daring outlaw.
Stretched over lie’s saddle
On the route to lie’s lair
Rode the daredevil
’X'eath the stormy air;
While on he’s trail
Police officers sped,
To take him alive—
Or shoot him dead.
Pistol shots rang out;
He was hit in the hack,
And reeled from he’s saddle
Upon the wild bush track.
. ...M.E.L.: “Runaway just missed acceptance....
AY.E.E.: Xo good. talking of what you vaguely
“believe.” Give us authenticated figures. .. .A.K.:
Cut out and send to the accountant, or give date,
page and column. .. .E.AA r .D.: Some good lines, but
it defies the rules of the game... .AV.'H.L.: N 0....
E.L.R.: They don’t strike us G.P.: < Don’t know
what the music is like, but the verse is pretty had.
. ...M.H.: If you must yell “Hail, far-flung British
Empire,” and other loud commonplaces, we’ll have to
beg you to do it somewhere else.... Agricola: You
say you are sending “a few- thoughts versified.” AA T e
found the verse, but the thoughts had dropped 0ut....
R S.G.: AVon’t d 0... .K.J.A.: Lines very lumpy....
Moira: AVeak verse, poor yarn. .. .P.F.: Not up....
E.H.E.: No thrill in it. .. .Invietus: Pointless....
Must go back.... A.M.: Shocking. .. .G.R.TI.:
The “Entreaty” wouldn’t move a young uumarritd
female of 50... .AV.P.B.: You have suggestive' initials.
It went that way... .H.S.: Too lumpy.... Slops: It
won’t do. ...H.P.: Good verse in its way, but doesn’t
say much.... A.S.: A'erse too had to carry it....
E.F.H.: Picturesque, hut not enough yarn A.V.H.:
Too easy to do and of too little interest when done.
Bobs: Poor sort of yell. .. . D.K.C.: AVhy don’t
you read the paper and see what we publish? That’s
the sort of stuff we want —that and better. .. .H.G.G.:
You don’t get our angle. ... P.J.L.: Fred Hagen,
Ltd., King-street, would answer your question....
E.H.: “Kitty” is too slight.... Jock of the A.1.F.:
You have a long road to travel R.A.S.: AVOI-
- at a violin’s “feet” must be as unsatisfying
as squeezing the waist of a church-organ....
A'olarie: AA’obblcs and wallows. .. .A.P.H.: Send your
copy with your name and address on it. The cover-
ing letter doesn't always join its mate. . . .Ocker:
Doesn’t seem to mean anything... .A.A.E.: “A'alley
Dwellers ’ not up... . Cestus: Sorry we suggested
-too much prayer. If it doesn’t work, try the
ancient accompaniment of fasting Iota: The
usual hearsay rant which helps to explain the crass
stupidity of English government in Ireland. It'
I lster had enlisted as well as, say, Maoriland. and
the rest of Ireland hadn’t enlisted at all, there
would be 26,000 more Irish soldiers in the British
armies to-day. .. . J.J.P.: Not enough in it. .. .
Godiva: Sorry effort. .. .C.R.K.0.: It neither pleases
nor convinces.... F.R.: Moves very uncomfortably.
.. . .E.M.AA’.: Some feeling, but the work is not
'flute good enough A’.F.K.: It’s hard driving.
One stanza :
They thrashed their meek hearts
To a violence of pains ;
And awoke searing thoughts
To ateem in their brains.
....Scotty H.: The basket gets it. . . .R.A.: “After
School Hours” and “Conqueror Vanquished” are
interesting, but not our style. Their place is in the
pugilistic column of an educational magazine. .. .
J.J.B. : Not nearly \.H.: No thought or 5ki11....
A.A.: Prose with rhyming words scattered through
it. They spoil it as prose, and don’t make verse of
it....D.H. : A'ou think the verse we publish is not
“forceable” enough, so send us this to nerve us to
more strenuous things:—-
This war is a very terryble thing,
Sadness to many a heart does It bring;
AA hen 1 read the cables I’m ready to cry,
Failing that I heave many a sigh.
The Kaiser I think is a horrible man
Arid to stop his career I've thought out a plan.
Bribe the cool; in the palace to poison the. brute
And the world will be rid of a bloodthirsty galoot.
Though I think more of knitting and lovc-son°-s and
flowers,
It drives me near crazy when I think of his powers-
He ought to be kicked out from Potsdam and put
in a flat,
Then stabbed to the heart and burnt up for fat.
Gordon Holmes, a Bulletin versifier who
lias won the Labor-selection ballot for East
Gippsland, is the young Melbourne solici-
tor who is appearing for defendant Dave
Watson in the Hughes-Watson libel suit.
Holmes, sen., was P.M. at Bairnsdale for
20-odd years, and young Gordon knows every
cross-road and culvert in the electorate. Jim
Cameron, Liberal, has held the seat for
many years, but at last election he beat Ted
Russell. Implement Makers’ secretary, by
only a hundred.
Death has divided two Melbourne brothers
who had won Military Crosses, Lieut. J. S.
Teare, second son of J. C. Teare (of Bennie,
Teare and Co.), having been killed in France
on August 2. Born in ’93, J.S. was educated
at Melbourne Grammar, went to study elec-
trical engineering at Birmingham Uni., and
joined King Edward’s Horse as a private in
1914. Transferred to the Artillery, he
gained a commission, a wound at Ypres, and
a Cross. His eldest brother, Lieut. Athol
M. Teare, won the Cross for bucking up his
men after he had been badly wounded. He
left Melbourne as corporal, and soon was a
noted sniper. A third brother. Captain Phil.,
is with the Artillery, and a sister is doing
her bit under the Red Cross.


■r
t/■ i|
■<J:' -
'»•••.;
i#
>
*:>v
V
'-’ •:•••
<S?*t
a
;:■>
s**:
< ; .-.v:
• •-•
i
§&SI
si
‘ v ‘>
•"- is
Mmm
npar
\ -
.
IW' - "'
m
*
£spi:
$$
.-■ •
n
v
./<•'
S&&
i£M|§i
seas
»
■>;v
2$
-'>>V_i
■■ : ■
ittliSliii
.
wm
&
A
iss
Ifi^c
-
■VjV-',
It I.
u
c&-
j®*!.
I• » I
• c -4 ?S£
9
1 1111 ii 11)iii
/
V>. v <•>•);
' 4 l|j j j n u
• •
i*? y • l \ $'
> t-. i:i .-vr ;’, *' :'t- «•< s$
••
In Mine and
Klingiite Belting
Mill and Factory
Service is Unequalled
If Klinotite Belts had origi-
nally l)een designed merely to
surpass other belting, they
would undoubtedly have won
at least some measure of the
tremendous success no w
theirs.
But they are not designed
merely to be successful in
competition with other belts.
They are designed to com-
pete successfully with the con-
ditions transmission belts must
master , and those conditions
are their only competition.
By meeting them squarely
and mastering them they have
won for themselves a more than
impressive prestige on the
exacting drives of hundreds of
plants, in practically every
in dustry.
Before their enlightening
service records became a mat-
ter of common knowledge,
belting: was belting to most
c> O
purchasers.
They never asked what the
belt could do, but asked only
about its price.
Before the special-weave
duck of Goodyear belts con-
quered conditions long ac-
cepted as necessary evils, duck
was duck to most master
mechanics.
Before their superior impreg-
nation with high-grade friction
had proved its merit, rubber
was rubber even to the trained
engineer.
Before their gripping friction
surface had established new
standards of power-saving, a
belt was a belt to the average
executive.
But because Klingtite Belts
met conditions instead of com-
petition, there is to-day a new
attitude toward transmission
belts.
They are now recognised
dictators of output, honored
determiners of dividends, the
masters of shut-downs and
delavs, the conquerors of waste
in power transmission.
Klingtite Belts have enlight-
ened belting' theory. I hey have
reformed belting practice.
Thev have conquered slip
and stretch without the artifices
of “dressings,” perforations
and racking tensions.
They have attained the
strength and pliability required
for efficient, continuous service
without having power-squan-
dering weight.
They meet the need for
economy as squarely as they
meet that of efficiency. They
save money ; they conserve
power: they last.
The Goodyear Tyre 8 Rubber Company of Australasia Limited
231 Clarence Street, Sydney
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne
6 Chesser Street, Adelaide
Chas. Atkins & Co.
(W.A.) Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth; and at Broken
Hill.
wfem&m Ml
a^vr^-^
H' O S E
G
~k 1


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E.N GLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luwe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
♦ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
♦Passengers only.
' NORTH.
BOMB ALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Aug. 18.
| COOMA (4000 Tons).
• Leaves Melbourne, Aug.
Leaves Sydney, Aijg. 25.
CANBERRA (SOOO Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Aug.
Leaves Sydney, Aug. 25.
SOUTH.
I CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Aug. 25.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking, Public Companies. &c.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, lit. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A :
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.09L669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ■
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,940,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,940,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massif..
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY,
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)eui Z eala nd.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. • .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
un Australia. New Zea
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Interest lor
fixed periods; ana
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
Accident and
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BABTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-BED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIDS, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS. F.tc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT* WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers-
SEYEN WEEKS' TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street.
BANK
or NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£3,894.980
£2,800.000
£3,894,980
£10.589.960
Directors:
The Han. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.Ai.oi., M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St E c
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji Papua and London '
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nee-o
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable the World
-T. RDSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. *
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
JBank ot 3ustraKa
SYDNEY. .
*2?“i General Banking Business
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world
Bank : n in? nd ,- L f'; a^ e business of every description transacted within the Common-
aipSi aS',pp“„ r ,'S“S n «‘ “"” d - In, "' ,t p * ,d
Savings Bank Department
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at 00/O 0 /
per annum *®/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE, and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
KRI ' ! »» DENISOX MILLER. Go„ ruor
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street. Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
1
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY ! j
<?
The ideal preparation
for growing those
short, stubbv mous-
taches affected by
the military is un-
doubtedly ’C a p il-
ia rin e. Hundreds
have proved its un-
failing merit. Send
for a Jar to-day.
Price 10/6 Jar-Post Free.
Craig g Aitkcn, 6^dneV! 4 ''
Established over SO years.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to anri f
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
j PARINGA, Saturday, Aug. ig.
/■ MORIALTA, Saturday, Aug. 25
J Rl PARA, Saturday, Sept. 1
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable
the first Port of call with other Inter-State C ~ "
on all services subject to conditions, which ‘an?
ascertained on application at the Company's OHice
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTI)
A e ents - 6 BRIDGE STREET. SVDNEV
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent East Passenger Stenmshios '
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from’ Svdncc u ,
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia nr? • ’ ilel '
as advertised in daily newspapers " d WCe Versa >
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
lteg-ular sailings between Sydney and Melhm,? .
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars t!
be obtained on application. P Ular t 0
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every tv,,
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney ’
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMPORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—c ana d a
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:— OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282!
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. IVI IfIOLESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
DIRT & CO. LTD., Sydnev and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLAUENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, CONK'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination TicKets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to MurwillumUiii,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel u.'
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers posse'’
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. A‘ tc
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets aie
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, an
with the Union S.S. Co/s steamers in the Fiji Trade,
particulars on application. For dates of sailing se
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting I-ondmi
should read the British Ausm- ■
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated P : |P
containing mail and cable news from -
tralia and news of Australians in L UIII
and at home. Australians are cordially
vited to visit the British Austsalasi- *
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High *
born. London, W.C., where they can see
home papers, meet their friends, us . e . T
telephone, and obtain information witn
charge.


J
i
Vi
A KODAK
is a necessity
Thousands of progressive
people would find it diffi-
cult to get on without a
Kodak .
Such complete, reliable and valuable records
can be made with a Kodak that it has been
found a necessity to contractors, manufac-
turers, men on the land, teachers, those in-
terested in scientific subjects, travellers —
particularly soldiers, parents desirous of keep-
ing a record of the growth and progress of
their children, and all who wish to mail
pictures of home to their soldier friends.
The No. 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is extremely popular. Takes
fine postcard pictures-—-5 V 2 x 3 X A inches. Price £5/10/-
There are other Autographic Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2/ all of which
are described in the Kodak catalogue. Get YOUR copy.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne;
250-352 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next >l*9ba Theatre),
Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba;
Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; 346 Argent St., B'.roken Hill;
Dixon St., also corner Lambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.; -3 Borne St.,
Auckland N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
=Are You IMPROVING Your
Figure DAILY?
Every morning' when you put on your corset \ t ou are either helping or hindering
the charming figure lines which Nature gave you.
The charm and grace of a GOSSARD CORSET lie in its natural beauty. It
gives you a smooth, natural back, trim, rounded hips, and a lovely waist-line —a
silhouette that is smart because it is natural.
Every time you put on your Gossard you are improving your figure. You are
wearing a corset designed for your individual figure requirements—that is why
your frocks will reflect that individuality of style which is so admired in Gossard
wearers.
There are many Gossards specially designed for your figure, whether you are tall
or short, heavy or slender.
An expert corsetiere who understands your figure requirements will deem it a
pleasure to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
Average
Figure.
Jhn //. [ft [} ossard fa.[nc.
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women
of AUSTRALIA by
Allan & Stark, Ltd., Brisbane. Farmer & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd., Melbourne. A. W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Harry Davies & Co., Ballarat. .Tames Marshall & Co., Adelaide.
\V. T. Waters A Co., Ltd., Sydney.
In NEW ZEALAND by
J. Ballantyne A Co., Christchurch. J. Ballantyne & Co., Timaru.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Christchurch.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Lyttelton.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Wellington.
George & Kersley, Ltd., X.Z., “The Economic,” Wanganui.
Herbert Hayes & Co., Ltd.. Dunedin. Milne & Choyce, Ltd., Auckland.
W. Lewis & Co., Invercargill.
»


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
RESIDE and DINE at
The
Australia
Hotel,
SYDNEY
Suites
de luxe.
Rooms with
Bath & Balcony
European or
American Plan
Private
Safe Deposit.
Spacious
Winter Carden,
Cuisine
par excellence.
Crill Rooms
a la carte.
Afternoon Teas
and Suppers,
Recherche
Dinners.
Weddings
Catered for.
* E
Why Drive a “Four” when you can
purchase a "SIX” for the same price?
The GRANT SIX. Price £390.
m
THE GRANT SIX-CYLINDER 5-SEATER, 2t h.p.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Garage 8 Showrooms—l 62 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
TEL. 8862.
The New Six-cylinder GRANT is America’s
Last Word in Excellence.
The exceptional value of the NEW GRANT SIX
is clear and unmistakable. The GRANT SIX is
the first six at its price.
The GRANT SIX for 1917 has the largest,
handsomest body ever offered in a car at anywbeif
near its price; full five-passenger capacity; t
doors, very wide; soft, deep upholstery; occupant. 1
sit deep in the car ; knees do not show above the
side lines, doors Hush, no mouldings, top nail smoot 1
and rounding. Overhead valve motor, exclude
Grant design—enlarged and refined; quieter. ni<>n
powerful. more economical. more flexibft.
Equipped with easily-adjustable tappets n° 01
leohs. Electric starter, light and horn; Cantile" 1
spring ; full floating rear axle.
20 MILES to THE GALLON OF PETROJ-
and many users get more; 900 MILES to
GALLON OF Oil. is the average experience <
GRANT drivers.
demonstrations arranged and fill
STOCKS OF SPARE PARTS CARRIED’
Price £390 complete,
including Spare Tyre, Tube and Rim.
IN BANANA LAND
Hughendeu railway unionists recently re-
solved that “any persons or firms found
raising the price of foodstuffs after July 29
should pay £lOO to charity; failing which the
unions would refuse to handle their gobds.”
Within 10 days one-quarter of the railway
men of all Australia were out on strike,
though the necessary effect was to raise the
prices of foodstuffs to famine rates. Evi-
dently what in a trading firm’s a heinous sin
is in a labor union quite praiseworthy.
“Theodolite” on the problem of Bumble and
roads:—
For “economical reasons” Maryborough has decided
to do without an engineer. A foreman “able to *0
his own surveying,” is to be appointed at a salary
of £250, thereby saving, the report smugly states,
£lOO per annum. The Council may save £lOO in
salary, but what it may lose through waste is incalcu-
lable. If the clause in the Local Authorities Act
which provides for the appointment of qualified engi-
neers is not to be enforced, then the elaborate thing
is a farce. At present the system is nothing more
than blackmail, with the councillors on one side and
ratepayers on the other. A recent Bulletin writer
advocated the appointment of city managers—-a sys-
tem which the U.S.A. is proving highly satisfactory.
Why not apply the same thing to shires—a qualified
engineer assisted by an accountant to run each one
and be responsible to the Minister? The work could
then go on without interference from half a dozen to
a dozen Bumbles, each with some tinpot job asked
for by a blackmailing ratepayer. Small adjoining
shires could be amalgamated, administration exes,
reduced to a minimum, and salaries offered decent
enough to attract good men.
“J.M.K.” asks for a word in reply to
“L.M.C.’s” recent criticism of the Hull River
abo. settlement: —
By a coincidence the initials correspond with those
of one who for many years employed on his own
terms large numbers of blacks under the truck sys-
tem. Because of gross scandals the Government
recognised that it was absolutely necessary to
assemble the half-starved, ragged, opium-sodden, dis-
eased natives, who, though they might work, never
received the least benefit therefrom. As a result
certain people became vindictive, and have never
ceased their attacks on the Hull River institution.
It is quite true that some blacks were brought
to the settlement by force and have had to submit
to the chain (criminals of all complexions have to
be restrained until reconciled to their surroundings),
but all has been done solely for the benefit of the
individual. It is true, also, that the Chief Protector
exercises discretion in the matter of hiring out labor.
For instance, a certain person is debarred from em-
ploying men except under special circumstances, and
women are forbidden to go near his place. True,
further, that there has been a good deal of sickness
at the settlement. Could it be otherwise, considering
the awful condition in which many of the abos.
arrived —neglected for years, weakened by disease
FIRST PUNTER: “Saucy Sissy ran doocid had. eh. what?”
SECOND DO.: “Oh, I don't know —the betting seemed to point to the fact that she'd been
stabled overnight at the Glaciarium."
and reeking with filthy ailments due to scandalous
prostitution? Also, in the opening up of every new
tract of country in N.Q. malaria has broken out.
Last year a serious phase of the disease appeared
at the station and the death rate was high, but it
was not excessive compared with, say, that of Cairns.
Of course, in the establishment of such an institution
as at Hull River on an hitherto site one
cannot be wise before the event in every circumstance,
but at least earnest and disinterested work is being
done.
Finally, the blacks who are earning wages get
them, and the money is all their own.
“A.G.”: Godfrey Morgan. M.L.A. for
Murilla, who figured in a mild scene with
Fihelly in the House the other day, used to
run the Donald (Vic.) Times. Simulta-
neously he bred Shropshires on a farm a
few r miles out. and when his brother .Tack
came over from S’Africa, “Goff” bade fare-
well to the Inky Way and selected land in
the Murilla electorate. Shortly after he
trekked north, a general election came along
and he was selected and elected on the
Liberal ticket. By the way, nothing, as
usual, came of the hot-air in the Assembly.
Fihelly alleged that the member for Murilla
wms a perverter of the truth, and accepted
an invitation to repeat the phrase outside.
Both parties left the Chamber —and then
mutual friends spoiled the sport.
More friends for the crow. A deputation
of canegrowers called on Home-Secretary
Huxham the other day to protest against the
extermination law being extended to sugar-
cane areas. The bird with the doleful
caw T is an enemy of the cane grub, and as
the grub is responsible for the destruction
of fully 10 per cent, of the cane crop, every
year, the sugar cocky won’t have it that the
crow is a pest.
Last vear the Ryan Government passed
an Arbitration Act which, being based on
the latest exhaustive investigations, con-
tains the most improved machinery for giv-
ing speedy justice to aggrieved workers. No
industrial court on earth can be reached so
readily as that constituted under this Act.
and none holds powers so svyeeping. One of
the first big cases to be decided was that of
the railway workers, who got an award
granting increases in wages totalling just
short of £500,000 a year. Yet the decision
has been met by the men downing tools,
because the advance was not made to operate
retrospectively as from February, which
would have entailed the payment of a further
£200,000 ! So the tribunal from w 7 hich much
was hoped stands threatened with annihila-
tion at the hands of the very people for whom
it was specially created.
T* e C. : During the recent weary
Address-in-Reply debate, the Ryan Govern-
ment was assailed with a full volley of stereo-
typed curses for introducing the' day-labor
system on Government jobs. The ‘attack
was ill-timed, for since the Public Works
Department instituted the system, various
jobs for which tenders had been called have
been completed by the State at a total cost
of £94,00:>. whereas the cost for having the
same work done in accordance with the
«i- s LJ onders received would have been
±ll t ,*.92 ! A great deal of other work has
been finished by the Department, but. in face
of the figures just mentioned, the Minister
didn’t bother about calling for tenders.
The Walled Garden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Made noiseless with the sponge of moss
That gives no echo to the tread;
Made blindfold with pale boughs o’erliead
That dip and reach and link across;
Green shelter for broad noonday hours
In walls grown gay with gillyflowers ;
A sundial, on an emerald cloth
Of fine grass that was lately shorn...
Where drift of petal-snow is borne;
The winging of a lilac moth;
Dull leaves that-glisten from the snail;
A peacock with a rainbow tail;
The frillings of pink hollyhocks;
Grey lavenders with purple spikes,
Like Ironsides with lifted pikes
About brave girls in summer frejeks
Who flaunt the “favors, through their tears,
Of long-haired, outlawed cavaliers!
No sound except the drone of bees,
The pecking peacock in the grass;
Across the dial the straight rays pass,
Daring the twilight of the trees ;
And once, beyond the privet’s edge,
A strange bird whistles in the hedge.
Who left the. little barred gate wide?
It swings to-day on creaking latch.
• It grieves about the sundered catch
Complaint against a world outside —
A world which leaves for bird and bee
The garden and its mystery.
The small red wasp, house-building, whirs
Discovery o’er a stricken head ;
The slanting sun, its noon force sped,
Strikes sudden glitter from his spurs,
And sends a probing ray across
A sword hilt, buried in the moss.
And, scattered from his velvet coG,
Moon-white the ravelled seed-pearls slip,
And lie along the mosses’ lip,
Like lilies on a weed-grown moat,
Where, through veined leaf and stem of brown.
Blind boughs keep God from iooking'down.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August H j
My Dear Tiiargomindah. —
The Residential Club for P ot
Soldiers and Sailors was unlocked fl tne(l
tom this evening by the united efWf
his Ex. Goold-Adams and Mayor H P tW of
ton. Lena Hammond sang “ ’Ti« ' e s n? ‘
of Farewell.” Perhaps she didn't ? 01 "
beforehand that this was a birth, not a deX
A patriotic gymkhana, arranged k,. 5
Automobile Club, was held at the (vf'
Ground this afternoon. The most thrill'
event was the introduction of a motor- ?
to a bunch of spectators. The astoniAit
thing is that no one was killed in the erm
of the ceremony. A lad who tried to 1 1
off the intruder with an elbow was the T
injured party.
Irma Caron arrived from Java this u
with a heap of curios and a congested thtmf
She was unable to appear at the Empire t'
night.
A pleasant farewell tea was given in
son’s Cafd the other afternoon by the Mb
Treacey to Elsie Cullen, niece of Arehhiu'"
Duhig. Afterwards the guest left for fij
ney to enter the Order of the Good Samir
tan Sisters. Gifts of remembrance were
handed her by the Mayoress on behalf f
many friends.
Ada Reeve arrived on Thursday afternoon
and was welcomed at the Town Hall hv the
Mayoress. It is 20 years since the piq Uant
Ada was in Brisbane.
Mrs. Halford, president of the Clavfield
Red Cross Society, entertained at tea a large
party of guests at her pretty home on Tom
day afternoon to farewell Miss Amies, now
on her way to Maoriland with dad, recently
manager in Queensland for the A.M.P. There
were good-bye presents, of course. A p re .
sentation was also made to Mrs. Elmslie the
retiring hon. sec. of the Clayfield organisa-
tion.
Capt. Dash and the little dots and dashes
gave the children at the Alexandra Home a
party to-day. It was a beautiful party. (All
children’s parties are, as perhaps you may
remember, my dear.)
Moya Cuppaidge, daughter of a Gvmpie
doctor, spent last year at the Molonp
(N.S.W.) Hospital qualifying to minister
to wounded warriors. Now' she has taken
on a permanent case, and has promised to
see to the comfort of Capt. Reg. Plant, an
original Anzae, twice wounded, and now tem-
porarily on transport duty. Capt. Plant'*
people were w’ell in the Charters Tower*
boom.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Gone where the wail of the six-o’clocker is
not heard, Jas. Gralton, sec. of the Queens-
land Licensed Victuallers’ Association.
Among other things, Gralton ran pubs and
trotting-horses, and was a keen sport. He
was at one time president of the Bungs'
Union, and after abandoning the beer pump
became their secretary. The last local-option
poll in Queensland found him a sick man.
but he stuck to it until the last vote was
counted. By that time, though, he was ton
ill to give his doctor a chance.


#0
Motor Gm
The Big Four
Touring Car
£365
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Magneto Ignition
Permanence
When an institution, almost from its in-
ception, takes the commanding position in its
field—
And when that institution maintains the
commanding position without interruption
over a series of years —
Then you may be assured of that institu-
tion’s integrity —both as to its product and
its dealings withf the public.
From an annual output of 465 motor cars
nine years ago The Willys-Overland Com-
pany has grown steadily, and this year its
dealers have contracted for more than 200,000
motor cars.
Its net resources have grown in that time
from a little more than £lO,OOO to more than
£13,600,000.
This year the Willys-Overland factories
are building the most comprehensive range
of models ever by any one motor
car concern.
If yours is a family of average size, you
will be particularly interested in either the
Big Four-cylinder Overland touring car, fin-
ished in a rich brown, or the Light Four
touring car, finished in gray. These two
models exemplify the remarkable values char-
acteristic of the entire group.
When you buy any motor car in the Wiilys-
Overland group you are assured bv our com-
manding position in the industry-—by our
unequaled facilities and resources—of integ-
rity of values in your motor car throughout
the whole period of its performance in your
service.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touting Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
“Country Club"
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Ccr
Complete Catctfoques and Prices on Request from—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
KELLOW FALKINER LTD., Melbourne.
A. HAJRiCK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
HEATHORN & CO., Tasmania.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
The Willys-QverJand Company, Toledo, Ohio
Manufacturers of Wiilys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
ana Light Lorries


(
NESTL
CONDENfEP
jAIJJR
y?
&
NEST
pi &» swiss m
swiraa*nD LOHDO
o
ft,
:)
EST
CONDEHS
sS2?
&
II
ey>
ANGiC SWISS t«® ®
AttO
.THIS WEEK’S MENU.
LEMON PUDDING
Ingredients. —% a lemon, 1 pint water, 2 eggs,
*/2 oz. butter, 1 breakfast-ctipful bread crumbs, 1
tablespoonful sugar, 2 tablespoonsful NESTLE’S
CONDENSED MILK.
Method. —Dissolve the milk In the water. Cut
the rind of the lemon very thjn and put it into the
milk, allow to come to the boil, then remove the lemon
find, and pour miHc over bread crumbs. When
slightly cool pour in the beaten egg* ; three-parts fill
a buttered pie-dish with the mixture, and add the but-
ter, divided into little bits. Bake in a moderate oven
for 30 minutes or until set. Whisk whites of egg to a
stiff froth and stir in sugar. Take pudding out of oven
and pcur the juice of half a lemon over, then put the
whites of eggs roughly on the top and dredge with fine
sugar. Put back in the oven for five minutes.
QUEEN CAKES
Ingredients .— 6 ozs. flour, 3 ozs. butter, 2 ozi.
candied peel, 1 lemon rind, 2 table*poon»ful
NESTLE’S CONDENSED MILK, mixed with ■/* pint
of water,3 oz*. sugar, 3 ozs. currants, 2 eggs, 1 table-
spoonful baking powder.
Method. —Sift the flour, add grated lemon rind,
currants, and the peel chopped fine. Cream the
butter and sugar, and add the egg* and milk
alternately with the dry ingredients. Well grease
some moulds and bake 15 minutes.
hr"
2 table»P°° n,^u * *■ ~
44 ■»"<
k lh « in "“ "S;V*.S-ilk-
a"n»« ~>4 P ”Ur,r'.T“«^“ Uy lt , ».f..'po U ‘“in«
trW u « ; -*' “
b n m . 4. k,
NOTE.-A b ioca in P Uce of
crushed or flaked t»P>°
SAGO PUDDING
ingredients. 2 ozs. fine sago, 2 table-
spoonsful NESTLE’S CONDENSED MILK,
34 pint water, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 egg.
Method.— Soak the sago in cold water and
drain, then sprinkle into the water and milk
while boiling. Stir until cooked —about 10
minutes. Allow to cool, and stir in the
beaten egg and the sugar. Pour into a
buttered pie-dish. Bake in a moderate oven
for about half an hour. Dish up and serve
hot.
NOTE.—A little grated lemon rind or
nutmeg sprinkled over the pudding before
baking will give it additional flavour.
CUSTARD MOULD
Ingredients. —3 tablespoonsful NESTLE’S
CONDENSED MILK, 44 pint water, Yz oz.
gelatine, 2 egg*, almond essence.
Method. —Heat the milk, dissolve the
gelatine in it and pour on the beaten
yolks of the eggs. Pour into a jar and
place it in a saucepan of boiling water;
then stir till the custard thicken'. When
nearly cold add the whites of the eggs
well beaten, and the essence, and pour
into a mould to set.
HOT AFTERNOON TEA CAKES
Ingredients.—~\\h. flour, 1 teaspoonful
cream of tartar, ]/} teaspoonful bi-carbonate
of soda, 2 eggs, 4 ozs. butter, 2 tablespoons-
ful NESTLE’S CONDENSED MILK mixed
with l /x P* nt water.
Method.- Rub the butter into the flour,
then add other ingredients. Mix into a
light dough with the eggs and milk; cut
into small rounds with a fancy cutter, brush
over with egg, and bake in a very hot oven
for 15 minutes.
RASPBERRY CREAM ICE
Ingredients. —J/j oz. ground rice, 4 ozs.
raspberry jam or raspberry essence, a few
drops of' carmine, 1 pint water, 3 table-
spoonsful of NESTLE’S CONDENSED
MILK.
Method. —Dissolve the milk in the water.
Rub the jam through a hair sieve in order to
remove pips. Put the ground rice into a
saucepan with the milk, bring to the boil and
cook for five minutes, stirring all the time.
Add the jam or essence and enough carmine
to colour a pale pink. Allow to get quite
cold ; it is then quite ready for putting into
freezing machine. Keep sides of
constantly scraped or the mixture will freeze
too quickly and be unpalatable.
!j>=v>
ifi]
\ v i
-*iC- •
i/i
I si
/r
(Till I £
p» .
r tss?
LL-Ji
S-M!
o
F
V-//
iTQj
"• ■ ai
Hudson Super-Six-The Car of Cosmopolitan Appeal
THE success of the Hudson Super-Six is international. Among fine car buyers the world over, it is
recognised as a top-place car. In the Super-Six you find all of the beauty and luxury you can ask
for in any car. Its mechanical superiority is unquestioned. And so to wonderful performance you add
exceptional beauty. Last year Hudson built 27,000 Super-Sixes and 10,000 more could have been sold if
we could have built them. This year the Super-Six will dominate more than ever. It will continue to
be the largest selling fine car in the world. In every country where motor-cars are used you will find
a Hudson Dealer.
Hudson Motor Car Company Largest makers of Fine
cars in the world.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan USA
Ca hI p • uimcniur a n “ * v • w
Cable Address : HUDSONCAR DETROIT.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Cane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
M
W £Tk d " t 44 Flinder s Street, Adelaide.
T & Co * »31 Hay Street, Perth.
J- nen, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart


THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT 41
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM. GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Pront A- Go., 220 Strand. London.
Maßbljs
JOINTED RIFLE ROD
Strong, stiff, rigid, as a
one-piece rod, yet can be
taken apart in a minute and
packed in a compact case—
easily carried
in pocket or
belt. Made of
brass or steel
— will last a
lifetime. Note
the construc-
tion. Connec-
tions are of steel. Dowels
relieve screws of all Bide strain
and give perfect rigidity. Pat-
ented steel swivel permits
cleaner or cloth to revolve and
follow rifling —gets every par-
ticle of dirt.
cabbisdneat.
Marbles
RIFLE CLEANER
gets every speck of lead,
rust and powder crust. Goes
right into angles of grooves,
cleaning and polishing them
thoroughly. Most efficient
cleaner ever invented.
Aik your dealer for these
Rifle Rods and Cleaner
Complete illustrated catalogue
of Marble’s “Sixty Sporting
Specialties” sent postpaid on
request.
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co.
611 Delta Avenue
Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Cable Address "Marble” Gladstone
Australian & New Zealand Rep’sent’s
HARRY MCLOEH, Box 1349, SYDNEY
BRASS SECTIONS, STEEL JOINTS, SWIVEL TIR.
Qb£) i
Pleasant and
Easy to Take.
Cinnak
Quick «Sl Certain
in its Action.
NO WATER TUMBLER
OR SPOON IS NEEDED,
i®r ‘ c i nnak'-T
Cinnak is a delightfully refresh-
ing powder with strong anti-
septic properties, which at once
relieve colds, liuskiness and nasal
catarrh. Cinnak cures and pro-
tects. It can be taken anywhere
at any time.
PER TUBE 1/6 ALL CHEMISTS.
I 53
BAD
LEG
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
and PILLS are the
great English remedy,
within the reach of all,
in all cases of Bad
Legs, Poisoned
Wounds and Hands,
Ulcers, Carbuncles,
Muscular Pains, Bun-
ions, Snake and Insect
Bites, and will save
lancing or cutting.
English Prices, 1/5, 5/- & 5/- per box
Sold by all Stores and Chemists and -wholesa e by
ELLIOTT BROS., ANTHONY HORDERNS’,
W. H. SOUL, PATTINSON & CO.,
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ALBERT 4 Co., 73, Farrinjdon St, London, E.C. 4
Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Sate for
children.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Z7z£
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,660,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
Do you wake up tired?
IF you feel “lazy,” listless, sleepy at the
wrong time—your vigor is being sapped
by self-poisoning.
Excessive fatigue is a danger signal. It
means that you are poisoned—self-poisoned.
“Self-poisoning” is the most common and
most dangerous of all diseases, and it is
caused by constipation. When you allow
constipation to take hold of your system,
you are paving the way to sickness and
perhaps death.
Nujol is the medically endorsed remedy
for constipation. Nujol is not a vicious
purge or a habit-forming cathartic. It acts
as an internal lubricant and is not absorbed
by the system; may be taken
in any quantity without harm.
Ask your chemist for booklet. Sold
only in 16 ounce bottles hearing Nujol
trademark. Never in bulk. Avoid
substitutes.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(Mew Jersey)
U. S. A.
Nujol
TRADE MARE
A**
FOR CONSTIP/
r.j rsShiisf:
r^LiiQi
s«p- w~
[rr.iTjpCi
avas»
5rrrMiir
Standard 011 <5*
sArac^c
.-I .M« M 1,4
,4
SS
of*
*-~r'
«<*•«*£
Where’s the Money
Coming From?
THE children—the house —the butcher—and the gas company—all need more, and more, and
more money. You can’t do any more work —and you can’t do any different work. What
are you going to do? That’s your problem.
Your answer is here. You can get more money—for less work.- When a. corporation wants to
make more money without increasing its plant it calls in a great Efficiency Eneineer—like Harring-
ton Emerson. Now —you can do the same for yourself; for Harrington Emerson has applied the
principles which he has already given to 200 companies to you, as an individual, in the
Course in Personal Efficiency
24 Lessons—with Charts—Records—Diagrams—Condensed—Clear.
The Efficiency Movement has swept the world because it has brought to men who saw no
way out a new light to success. Other nations have profited—other nations make the most of their
time and their talents; but we in this country—with our .abounding wealth, have been prodigal
with natural resources, with mental resources, with time. Now we must stop and reorganise.
And, above all, it is the individual who must reorganise himself, because it is he who is the
basis of the trouble. Let the Emerson Course teach you to conserve your brains, your time —-for
these are your capital—just as money and machinery are the capital of a factory. Learn to invest
them right. There’s more coming to you out of life —Get it. Get the money and rest and success
you ought to have. You won’t work longer—you’ll work less. You are full of unused energy.
Consider country people and city people. The rapidity of the city man’s life bewilders the country
man. A day in town is a terror. But give him a year in the city, and he’ll keep the pace as well
as anyone. He will get 10 times as much out of himself —and he won’t be working any harder.
That's what Efficiency will do for you who are already in the city. It will attune you to a new
gait—a new zest and snap —and things will leap along where now they crawl. A
This Book—FREE.
14 Chapters—in Colors—Illustrated.
Send for this book. It contains the answer to the
ever-present question of “Where is the Money
Coming From?” It tells you just what Effici-
ency is—-what it has done for others —what it can
do for you. Some of the Chapters;—
What is Efficiency? For whom is Effici-
ency'. How you are taught Efficiency. Are
you ear-minded or eye-minded? Find out
what you are actually doing with your time.
Most failures are due to guess work. You use
only half your power. To what do some men owe
their success? Health culture. Personal finances.
Mr. Emerson’s message to y-ou.
Efficiency is an express road to success. The ordinary-
way of doing is like a local —stopping at way stations of
mistakes and ignorance. Take the express and go straight
to success.
THE INSTITUTE OF EFFICIENCY (Australasian Branch)
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE 7 Moore Street, SYDNEY.
24 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Institute
of Efficiency,
100 Flinders
St., Melbourne.
Please send me with-
out any obligation
your book, “Where’s
the Money Coming
From and full particu-
lars of your Home Study
Course in Efficiency, and
enclose 3d. in stamps to
cover postage.
Name
Address
The Westralian Venereal Diseases Act is
proving a sorry farce ; and the red plague is
probably worse in the State than ever it was.
The law aims chiefly at (1) suppressing
quacks, (2) treating cases in hospitals. All
that is the matter is that there are (1) no
effective means for hunting the quacks, and
(2) no hospitals to treat the cases after
the doctors report them.
“Brassard”: Notice in a French cottage
window :
EGGS
STRICTLY FRESH.
Wachime dun for soldats.
But I like better this model of condensation:
HERE: EGGS.
Adelaide Fire Brigade Board, scrapping
its last remaining horses, points out with
modest pride that its policy for years past
has been "Everything made in Australia, if
possible.” The uniforms are all of Lobethal
tweed, and the last batch of motor-reels, sup-
plied to suburban stations hitherto relying
on horse-power, are “not only better vehicles,
but £2OO cheaper than the imported article,”
the chairpian says.
This for the encouragement of Red Cross-
ers everywhere :—■
I landed in a Tommy hospital in Bristol (Eng.)
with little more than I had when I first intruded on
this earth. But the Australian Red Cross has a
branch there, and next day I was fixed up with
everything, including razor, strop, soap, writing
materials, smokes, and—best of all—plenty of warm
Australian kindness. I salute them, one and all.
It happened in Melbourne lately. The
aspiring student and her teacher were shown
into the distinguished artist’s presence. His
English is poor and he mistook them for
mother and daughter. When the girl had
been put through her vocal gymnastics the
frank foreigner delivered judgment: “Madame,
your daughter has the beautiful voice, but so
unfortunate is it that she has been trained
by a fool!”
Australia's first wheat cocky had the
mouse worry, too. Governor Phillip, who
planted the earliest crop on the present site
of Sydney Botanic Gardens in 1788, said in
his records :
The great labor of clearing the ground will not
permit more than eight acres to be sown this year
with wheat and barley; at the same time the im-
mense number of ants and field-mice will render our
crops very uncertain.
Grappling with the problem of how to dis-
tribute primary produce, especially fruit and
vegetables, the Age recommends the adoption
of the French system of holding a regular
morning market in one street of every town-
ship or suburb. But the Age forgets the
sacred landlord. Melbourne’s barrowmen
used to clear large quantities of fruit, fish,
etc., at popular prices till the City Council
hunted them out in the interests of the loaf-
ing rent-collector.
“Ba”: The Hindus in Fiji may be as
happy as “A. F. Thompson” says they are
(B. 19/7/T7) ; but I have my doubts after
reading this cryptic "funeral” notice, re the
cessation of indentured-labor shipments, in the
Western Pacific Herald, June 21:—
“Indentured Laborers.” Funeral on the Rewa.
On Saturday the 23rd inst., at 2 p.m., at Mausori,
will be cremated the dead body of this old friend of
European planters and the enemy of Indian national
self-respect, national honor, national name and fame
—a hideous monster preying on Indian womanhood
and torturing its victims into a life of misery and
shame and bringing up its offspring in sin and filth.
(Signed) Rewa Indians.
The two latest Labor selections for Vic.
State seats are H. F. Smith for Prahran—
which seems this time to be a certainty for
Mackinnon the Recruiter—and Tom Jude
for Maryborough, a seat at present held by
Outtrim. Until lately Outtrim was a Labor
supporter, but now he is Independent—for
the time being. Smith, the newly-chosen
for Prahran, is sec. to the local
P.L.L. Webber, secretary to the Grocers’
Assistants, opposed Mackinnon on a,
previous occasion. He was branch sec.
in those days. Jude is a Ballarat miner,
now president of the A.M.A., and earning his
daily crumb as organiser for that body.
"Jacko” : The housing clauses of the N. S.
Wales Public Health Act can be made to
serve the turn of the blackmailing -landlord.
This way. An inspector comes along and
furnishes the owner with a list of improve-
ments that must be made to, say, a small
business place. The owner, knowing that
business premises are hard to get, bluffs that
rather than do the work he’ll see his prop-
erty vacated and allowed to lie idle. The
tenant, faced with the impossible alternative
of putting up the shutters, has to make the
improvements at his own expense. Presently
he gets a demand for more rent on the
strength of his own improvements! I know
a case in which a tenant sank £3OO improv-
ing another man’s property. Business
dropped and he got behind with the rent.
The landlord speedily put in the bailiff, sold
stock and fittings, and collared the full
amount of rent, along with the £3OO of
improvements. Now he is letting the place
at double the original rental. Poor Cocky
isn’t the only toiler entitled to a Tenants’
Improvements Act.
More drama from the Law Courts —the
Borrowed Chee-ild, this time. Irene May
Estelle Connell pleaded guilty before Justice
Hood in Melbourne to obtaining a maternity
bonus “without justification,” as the pre-
sentment neatly put it. Her counsel’s story
was that, passionately fond of children, she
adopted a child, M’hich died. She adopted
another —a girl—but a spiritualist told her,
"I can see that is not your child.” Irene
May Estelle undertook to prove that it M-as.
To do so she registered it as her own. and
got the baby bonus in consequence. It had
never occurred to her that she was “on a
fiver,” as the boys say, until the registrar
gave her the papers to sign. The woman’s
husband said he kneM 7 nothing of the bonus
transaction at the time. He consented to
the adoption because his wife wanted a girl.
There were already two boys, one the
adopted child of a deceased relative. The
girl had come from the Neglected Children’s
Department —“the last place I would go for
a child ipyself,” said ’S’onah, artlessly. And
he made it a fine of £25. So Irene May
Estelle was a baby to the good and £2O to
the bad on the transaction.


ABBEY
SHOES!
If you want high-quality footwear,
that is correct and smart in appear-
ance—that will give you long ser-
vice and comfort, wear Abbey
Shoes.
We illustrate a special highest?
grade Patent Derby Shoe. A
smart “made-to-order” style.
Price - 40/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Stocked in half- and full-sizes, and
in narrow, medium and wide
fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Stimulating—
Nourishirg—
Palatable—
Easily Made—
Easily Stored—
Always an Ideal
Food-Drink.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY. Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Boy, or a Course of
S Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CUKE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ettab. 1891.
I'll
ij
m
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
&
dm
iim
gSffigl
*
•■
as'
• a-
,
ssag
C6s3s—Best Quality Silver-plated “Dorothy’'
Bag'. Silk-lined, with Expanding Top.
Price 40/-
AN ARTICLE OF RARE QUALITY
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTATION.
LATEST STYLE
DOROTHY BAG
Postage Jt / Postage
Paid "T j Pait *
FROM STEWART DAWSON’S.
An excellent Silver-plated Bag,
with Expanding Top; handsomely
lined with Silk.
If you lire in the Country write
for
OUR LATEST CATALOGUE,
Sent Post Free.
STEWART
DAWSON’S
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RAMESES UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR.
/
( Trade mark)
Genuine
British
“RAMESES”
Garments
all bear
this mark.
“RAMESES”
FOR SERVICE
anil ECONOMY.
R AMESES UNDERWEAR is the new popular-priced brand
of under-garments for men and women, placed on the
market to enable British people to get an out-and-out Brit-
ish article at the price of and in the place of the German-made
underwear with which until recently this country was flooded.
Raineses Underwear is cheap only as regards its price; in points
of lit and finish, of wear and quality, it reaches a standard never
hitherto found in underwear of equal price. Rameses, like Britain
herself, is absolutely to be trusted.
Wearers of Rameses Garments will find that their comfort and
satisfaction have been most carefully studied; they will find
nothing skimped or slipshod ; every genuine Rameses Garment is
designed for honest, enduring service.
Already you can obtain Rameses in a variety of garments for men
and women, and shortly Rameses Underwear will be obtainable for
children. If you believe in British goods for Britishers, see that
the Rameses trade mark is on the next underwear you buy.
The secret of the value of Raineses Underwear lies in enormous buying of raw material, newest labor-
saving machinery, and long experience and knowledge of manufacture. Raineses Garments are soft and
“springy - ’ to the last—they keep their size, for they are made their size (not stretched thereto). The
flat seams add greatly to comfort.
safeguard you* health
QtJ.Collis Brotfng's
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE IOK
Coughs, Cofc/s, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, 3 /-, a/-.
Made in England.
HIS MASTER S VOICE
Introduces the Celebrities
Melba you know —and
also McCormack. Both
have sung in Australia.
But what would you
know of Caruso's singing
or of the siuging of Buffo.
Ckaliapine, Tetrazzini.
Amati. and dozens of
others celebrated in the
realm of opera and song,
were it not for "Ills
MASTERS VOICE”?
When you want to hear anything noteworthy—be it vocal, instrumental
or orchestral music—whenever you want to hear how a great artiste
renders a great composition, get “HIS MASTER'S VOICE” Celebrity
Records and you could well believe the actual singer was there in front
of you.
yAiuen u
Ask your dealer to play them for you.
Complete record lists, instrument catalogue and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Bejuiered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET
SYDNE'S
r
-e
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—
so ‘ Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘ Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
m
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why oyer 10,000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY
•Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN * CO., Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/S and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Sm
v
Free—A Tin of
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
Sufficient to Last for a Fortnight.
The sample which we offer free
prove that Calox meets your ie<)
merits for a superior dentifrice.
A distinctive feature of Calox is t *
as soon as it touches the niouw
liberates oxygen, and thus the
powerful of all germ-destroying
at once scatters into every ere
the mouth, purifying, cleansing
immediately destroying germs,
fermenting food particles.
Calox tones up the gums, and ai s
preventing deposits of tartar.
Write your name and address acio
this ad. and enclose two penny s '
to cover postage. Address to
Dept., Geo. Wills and Co., 480 , e
St., Melbourne, and the nig
will be forwarded without de ■. •
Calox is procurable from
All Chemists and Leading Stores.
F 16.5.17.
IF anybody charges you more $ seD!
a single copy of The Bull -
l lis. 6d. to 214 George Street- -. ■
will he — J "


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
"My son broke out on the forehead
like ringworms which spread over the
face and under the chin. The skin around
them became very much inflamed and
itched very much so that he scratched
them and they cracked and would bleed
and became very painful. The irritation
kept him awake at night. His face was
disfigured for the time.
‘‘l thought I would try the Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. After using one
tin of Cuticura Ointment besides the
sample my boy’s face is clear again."
(Signed) Mrs. Forsberg, 204' Batman
St., W. Melbourne, Vic., Oct. 28, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPECIAL/^
TWO
L/NES
s
u#
CATALOGUt
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
*32OGEORGES 7 SYDNEY
iC /iO/MTEA S T NEWCASTLE
m
y* * * *
****
i a
**
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES'!
Always Reliable
\\\m
m
Ui I DS
j lil
m* SB
m
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL’
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs T.S. Black
Powder and i£ oz. of shot.
ELEY
•380
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 38
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS.
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
N3a oia
A Time Saver
Big Ben gives
you exact time day
or night. A full
twenty-four hours
service seven
times the week.
Six times factory
timed and tested.
Big Ben saves you
time —trust him.
Always prompt —he
gets you out of bed on the
minute. Plenty of time to
read the morning paper—
a hearty breakfast a
brisk walk to the office.
You start the day right, and
Big Ben has done his bit.
Big Ben is seven inches tali, well
built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial—a cheer-
ful, deep-toned voice—large, comfortable
winding keys—a light running movement
with watch-like escapement—an alarm
that calls steadily for five minutes or
intermittently for ten. 15/- at all clock
dealers.
LaSalle, 111., U.S.A. Western Clock Co. Makers of Westclox
Ckl
e
k4n c
T I
netisim
o
c<
eaoi
Miuiim
W'*
aniN
.v>
*VC:
X
r v
%
ft
am*
i
a
m
>
A!ziJ
%
S-
r
il/weet /iell of Old Drury •
•Zand ICirx.^Charles'-ll*
UNIQUE PROCESS FOR
RETAINING AND
REGAINING BEAUTY.
By Mlle. Charlotte Sikier.
Does your skin chap or roughen easily, or become
unduly red or blotchy? Let me tell you a quick and
easy way to overcome the trouble and keep your com-
plexion beautifully white, smooth and soft. Just get
some ordinary mercolised wax at the chemist’s, and
use a little before retiring as you would use cold
cream. The wax, through some peculiar action, flecks
off the rough, discolored or blemished skin. The
worn-out cuticle comes off .just like dandruff on a
diseased scalp, only in almost invisible particles. Mer-
colised wax simply hastens Nature’s work, which is
the rational and proper way to attain a perfect com-
plexion, so much sought after but very seldom seen.
The process is perfectly simple and quite harmless.
*$ $ $
It is astounding the number of women who suffer
from unsightly growths of hair on the face, and it
will come as a piece of good news to know that
there is -a simple substance known as powdered
pheminol which will remove it immediately and per-
manently. Mix a small quantity into a thin paste
with a little water, and apply to the objectionable
growths. In two minutes all trace of the hair will
have entirely vanished, and your skin will be as soft
and smooth as a child’s.
** * *
The hair should be allowed to breathe, and the
greasy film around each strand must be removed with
a mild non-alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be
tabooed. The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stallax
granules in a cup of hot water. It stimulates the
scalp to healthy action, and at the same time leaves
the hair in that soft, fluffy condition so much
admired. Any chemist can supply you with an
original packet of stallax, sufficient to make 25 or
SO shampoos.
# Hi * *
One need not resort ,to the very questionable ex-
pedient of hair-dve in order not to have grey hair.
The grey hair can easily be changed back to a
natural color in a few days’ time merely bv the
application of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from your
chemist two ounces of tammalite concentrate, and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply this to
the hair a few times with a small sponge and you
will soon have the pleasure of seeing your grey hair
gradually darkening to the desired shade. The "lotion
in pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and d«>>s not injure
the hair in any way. [i
The Sydney U Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric J.'"t Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and
other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High-pressure Stocks
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, sydney.
A. JIAYNE HERON, Manager.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. 4 re you going to
let the Ravislier of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
The Inky Way.
From ‘‘The Oldest Inhabitant” :
Sydney Evening News had its golden jubilee on
July 30. It was a sort of cuckoo, having laid its
egg in the old Empire nest, fashioned by Henry
Parkes in 1850. The paper has published a jubilee
history which omits reference to all early-day per-
sonalities but one, Mr. J. J, Hayes, who was first
publisher of the paper and is still connected with
it. Mr. Hayes was 50 years ago to be found at the
Empire branch office and newsagency, George-street,
one door north of the Telegraph office, which then
stood on a site now covered by Beard Watson’s.
I had a very short personal experience of the
News and Town and Country Journal when the
latter was founded by Samuel Bennett in January,
1870. I remember Sam had no “reader boy,” believ-
ing that the reader did not need an assistant.
The office was then in Pitt-street, near King-street.
Mr. Bennett and the Rev. Wm. Ridley, a Presby-
terian, did the editorial work of the News, while
Mr. Wilkes occupied the T. and C. chair. Wilkes
wrote a couple of very readable columns as “The
Flaneur”; he was the first to use that signature
in Sydney. He was an able man, but eccentric and
crotchety. It was he who suggested to Bennett that
he should put the Warwick Arms on his - new build-
ing. Bennett asked what it was. “The Bear and
Ragged Staff,” was the answer. The design selected
was Caxton and his printing press, and it still adorns
the coping-stone of the building.
The pressmen of that day were indeed a grubby
lot. One old gentleman on the News staff was Mr.
Rushton, whose wife kept a greengrocery in Kent-
street. Another w - as Joe Lee, who did general work
about town, and if particularly wanted might be
found in one of the boxes or pews in the Liverpool
Arms. Joe made a rise once, and got a new rig-out
from head to heel. He was quite proud of his
appearance and found his way to Mr. Bennett’s room
to exhibit himself. Bennett merely said he was
afraid Joe was getting too much money.
“The Bear” of the suggested coat-of-arms is long
since dead. So are all three of his .sons, as
his son-in-law, Henniker Heaton. There are, how-
ever, two or three widows and a multitude of the
third generation.
* * * *
The other day one of Brisbane’s doctors
desired to announce that he had resumed
practice. The Daily Mail obligingly
printed it under Funeral Notices!
* * * *
At least two military camps in Australia
now issue their own little weekly. The first
was the Camiv Chronicle, founded at Black-
boy Hill (W.A.). It consists of eight pages
and charges 3d. for itself. It is never short
of advts., and is a paying proposition. Its
reptile contemporary is far away at Broad-
meadows (Vic.) —the Camp Sentry. This
one is studded with bright paragraphs and
cheerful criticism, and is altogether a very
attractive tribute to the versatility of Bill-
jim.
* * * *
“W.M.S.”: “II.O.” (B. 2/8/T7) isn’t the
first to lob on to that rhyme to “window.”
The following was published over 20 years
ago :—-
A cruel man a beetle caught
And to the wall him pinned. “Oh,”
Said the beetle to the crowd,
“Though I’m stuck up I am not proud.”
And his soul went through the window.
* * * *
“John D.” : Filed his last slip of copy and
taken his longest “night off,” Ronald McDon-
ald, of Hobart Daily Post staff. A conscien-
tious and capable scribe, and one of the
kindliest of men, he spilled ink in various
States up till eight years ago. Then he
settled down on the Post and stuck to it ever
since as senior reporter, chief of staff, cable-
interpreter and temporary sub. Only 46 at
the last good-night. Scottish by birth ; good
Australian in sentiment.
* * * *
“J.F.H.” (London) : The German “Press
Year Book” for 1917 reached me towards the
close of May. A bit late, but no later than
similar publications of our own. It shows
562 fewer newspapers than in the pre-war
vear ; still, 2938 have managed to keep going,
brought out, most of them, by the unaided
efforts of the proprietors and the women of
their families. Their labors are, however,
considerably lightened by the large amount
of stereotyped matter they regularly receive
through Government agencies. Spite ot that,
805 confess that they have had to increase
their price. # *
“Chibiabos” : When H. B. Irving was in
Australia lie continued his study of enme
for his work on psychology. One day he
asked me where he could get information
about the notable Chemis case m Wellington
(ML). I hunted up Charlie Maitei, the
St-dead sub-editor of Sydney
who had reported the trial for the Welling-
ton Times. In a graphic narrative Marter
recounted to Irving the whole of the re-
markable story, and held the actor fascin-
ated Irving said to a bunch of scribblers
that the tragic puzzle would make a chapte
L^hSrr^tor ss. ssoi?
has it, for Chemis blew his biains out on
the sweetest hill I know#
THE POET’S WOOING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I said I could deny her nought,
She was so tender, sweet and good.
“Thy life,” I whispered, “should be fraught
With all dear things, if but I could
Wrest from the caverns deep and cold
Their secret store of yellow gold.”
The gorgeous glories of the East
Should all be hers to deck her hair
And grace her beauty, and the least
Great ruby for her forehead fair
Would shame the envious Venus there,
If I an Alexander were.
Old jewels she should have from me,
That she the richest might outglow,
And rare, quaint blooms I’d give that she '
Might have the wondering world to know
How much more fair and dainty, too,
Was she than any flower that blew.
I said she should in high halls dwell,
With wee, trim waiting-maids a score,
If I the Rothschilds could excel....
And then she wed the bloke next door,
Because, she said to my dismay,
lie guaranteed three meals a day !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Big bursts
from little
punctures
grow!
WHEN the ordinary
motor tyre is fully
inflated, the cover is
stretched and distended.
A small cut in the tread of such a tyre therefore
tends to gape and grow larger. Water and
grit thus gain access to the canvas, and then 1
The Moseley Grooved
Motor Tyre is moulded
by a process which
prevents this. When
inflated the tread of
the Moseley tyre is
not distended, but com'
pressed; so that slight
cuts in the tread of a
Moseley Grooved Tyre
close up under the
pressure of running.
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer.
If you find any difficulty in obtaining
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams: “Grear,” Sydney.
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
C.W. H.
M. 2.
"MILLER”
Oil Heaters
Manufactured by the famous house
of "Miller” are known and appreci-
ated the world over for their Smoke-
less and Economical Qualities. They
are built upon solid lines and
noted for their sturdiness.
We also manufacture the famous
"Miller ' Lighting Fixtures and Lamps
of Electric, Gas and Oil Variety.
Look over the "Miller”line it will pay
1 you. Obtainable at all the best dealers.
Made by EDWARD MILLER 6c COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
■ire too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3, Free sample posted. ROCEE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
onr
BE
?jSfcf
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
Tiie Manager.
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
'zr-
84. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 4-10-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26>n. barrels, both elioke; weight,
about s Jib Freight paid,
£4/10/-
tSdt
m
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
836. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, ease-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full (hoke, matted
lib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested,
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 71 to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7] to 7f lb. — , ,
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, 3L%J m
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels . Freight paid, £3/7/(j
m
ii
:
837. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.Tj. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight of I’2-eausre
'I to 8i lb., 16-gauge, 7£ to 8 lb. —
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, £4
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £4/5/.
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., post free.
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gull, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
rig-ht modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2jin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7Jlb Freight paid,
£6/6/-
838. Remington
similar description to
B3*. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
i i cio- , 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol clip, nickel-steel
barrels, -Sin full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2Jin. shells.
Magazine holds o cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight, _ _ ,
„ . Freight paid, X,V/12/0
Brown mg Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun, 12-gauge,
' • Freight paid, £9/12/6
R 3
Yon *a. IX ? C iester Automatic Repeating Rifle
190,} Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
point blank to 100 yards; wiITS Vt *£s*'. . . £6/6/
SWEET CROP Smoking Mixture.
Really Delightful.
tin, 1 1 (post free).
B 14 .; Wmchesier Repeating Rifles, 1892
j 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
wi! ,w d Barrel • Freight paid, 87/6
?n agon Barrel Freight paid, 90/-
Uie Al 7 i-Octagon Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, 90/-
eentrai '* '“('tester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres,
central file, full or half magazines, 20in. round barrel; weight, about sJlb. Freight paid, 77/6
R2B. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892
Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes
25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges; weight sJib. —
Freight paid, 77,6
Same as above, with round barrel Freight paid, 72/6
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
rt F ! rearm * Sports List (Catalogue HI), also “Sure Catch” Anglers’
Cmde (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address.. Write for one or both lists. They
are money savers.
1C
Australia's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
Am tobacconists
City Sports Depot
IID King St , also at
Tieyvcnsile l Brisbane


~r
♦
'
I
MISS DOROTHY CUMMING Praises
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY.
Miss Dorothy Cumming is one of Australia’s youngest, fairest and most
notable Artists. This talented young lady started her career under the direct
auspices of Mr. J. O. Williamson himself, and her progress since then has delighted
all her many admirers.
Miss Cumming is now appearing with marked success as Virginia Bullivant in
“Grumpy,” the play which has already become famous throughout Australia. Miss
Cumming writes us as follows: —
I want to tell you what I think about your Remedy for Coughs and
Colds—Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. At various times I have tried
many things when troubled with a cold, and I want to say that you have
the best by far of any I have ever come across.
It has always cured me in a remarkably short time. lam only too
glad to add my testimony, and wish you every success with it.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) DOROTHY CUMMING.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY is the quickest, safest and best-
known remedy for Coughs, Colds, Pleurisy, Bronchitis and all Throat and Chest
Troubles. It is the remedy that can always be relied upon. It is obtainable
everywhere at 1/6, and in larger bottles, holding two and a half times as much,
at 3/-. .
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
§
e
ik.
T)0 YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
*when you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
ts function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of iron Jelloids ’■ the
“most effective and desirable treatment.’’
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS No. 2A.
For Ancemia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 16. Large size 3/".
t - -
'MO
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
mu
NAZETHA
The most effective and
pleasing Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
m
m.
[i
Sailortown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
C AILORTOWN’S a fine town when the
tide is on the flood :
It's all sun an’ smiles there an’ hearts
as light as scud ;
There’s revelry an’ life there, an’ rollickin’
an’ cheer,
An’ salts rollin’ heavy with the home-bound
sheer.
So heave her, Johnnie, heave her an ’ warp
her through the lock.
An' leave her, Johnnie, leave her when
moored a gen the dock;
Forget the mate an' all your hate: sling
overboard your sorrow,
An' tell the 'longshore lasses we're nailin' off
to-morrow !
Sailortown’s a gay town when the tide is on
the flood,
An’ the brine o’ twelve-months’ cruisin’ runs
riot in your blood ;
There's many a saucy craft there painted
spick and spry
With a full spread o’ sail set, steerin’ full
an’ by.
An' it's meet her, Johnnie, meet her when
headed on the wind,
An' treat her, Johnnie, treat her, an’ she
will lead you blind;
It’s harbor tack for Sal an' Jack, an' a fair
breeze Mowin',
For lovin’ are the lasses with flood-tide
flowin'.
There’s ye Olde Jolly Tar there with fiddles
goin’ gay,
A-playin’ old cotillions as partners swing
an’ sway ;
There’s sandjigs an’ hornpipes an’ sets the
evenin’ through,
An’ cool bowers to rest in where couples bill
an’ coo.
An' it's steer her, Johnnie, steer her an’
hold her trim an' taut,
An' sheer her, Johnnie, sheer her to star-
board-hand or port;
It’s fill-an’-back an’ wear an' tack, a-steppin’
light an’ gay,
Till dawn peeps out to east’ard an' steals
o’er Sailor Bay.
In the bright, lighted taverns is the spot-
dice flung ;
Old yarns are spun agen an’ old songs sung ;
An’ merry pass the hours there as rum
runs red,
An’ choruses re-echo on the rafters overhead.
An’ it’s clinic ’em, Johnnie, clink ’em as
nobblers come an’ go,
An’ drink 'em, Johnnie, drink ’em to th'
sprightly lass in tow,
With wish an’ toast, as drunk by most o' the
rorty, rollin’ fleet —-
“Good-luck to reives an’ srveethearts, an’
may they never meet!”
Sailortown’s a seaport that landsmen never
find,
Though tide flows at full flood an’ fair blows
the wind;
Though bright burn the headlights that show
the channel clear,
The lubbers steer from shoreward an’ never
make the pier.
An' it’s track it, 'lubbers, track it to pick an’
plane an’ pen;
An' back it, lubbers, back it, for ye can only
ken
The right-o’-way through Sailor Bay by road
o’ the open sea,
With world-ends under hatches an’ sea-lust
hard-a-lee !
Sailortown’s a hard town when ebb-tide has
made,
When the last spree is over, an’ the last
game played,
When the last gold’s gone, son, an’ the last
love’s cold ;
Stranded on the beach, son, starvin’ till
you’re sold.
Oh, it’s dreary, Johnnie, dreary an’ sick o’
heart an' soul.
An’ weary, Johnnie, weary an’ out at heel
an’ hole;
It’s down an’ out with none to shout, slave
in a crimper's grip,
A-longin’, Johnnie, longin’ for an outbound
ship.
The days are long an’ dull then, an’ nights
dark an’ drear;
There’s no bill o’ fare then an’ rollickin’ an’
cheer;
An’ there’s more kicks than gold, son, when
a vessel signs away,
An’ ships your dopy carcass an’ dead-horse
on the neigh.
Oh, it’s nursin’, Johnnie, nursin’ your
achin’, breakin ’ pate;
An’ cursin’, Johnnie, cursin’ the crimp that
sealed your fate;
It’s pulley-haul an’ tackle fall, an’ bunk-
boards bare your bed.
With five days’ flood behind you an’ twelve-
months' ebb ahead.
SIERRA LEONE.
JACK HAMILTON.
Wild Honey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
tree had crashed across a sunny
clearing on the sheltered side of the
hill. It lay where it had fallen, crush-
ing the long fine grass and wild flowers, its
branches fringed with downy blossoms.
The air was full of the frail singing of
wild bees and the faint whirring of their
wings. They hung in a dusky cloud over the
fallen tree.
“There —that’s the lot!”
The bee-hunter threw the last of the
honeycomb he had taken from a dark hole in
the tree into a tin on the grass beside him.
“It’s a great nest, Mart!”
Stooping over the tin Chris Evans broke
off a bit of the dark comb.
“Rather! Whew, it’s hot!”
The bee-hunter mopped his forehead with
a grimy handkerchief and threw himself on
the grass.
“There’s a bee on your neck,’’ Chris
called.
“Sh !’’ lie flicked the bee away. “Doesn’t
she wish she could sting like a tame bee?”
The girl was sucking the syrup that
dripped from the honeycomb, dull gold, and
amber where the sunlight struck it.
“Was there ever anything in the world
like wild honey, Mart?” she cried. “There’s
the sunshine in it, the smell of the flowers
and the song of the birds.”
West threw back his head.
“No,” he said, dreamily. “I been takin’
bees near ten years, Chris, and I reck’n I
never tasted honey like this—but there’s
always a bitterness.”
“You mean the taste of the eucalyptus in
it?” she asked.
“No, I don’t mean that,” he said.
“What do you mean, Mart?”
She dropped into the grass beside him.
He turned so that he could look at her.
“I’m going away, Chris,” he said, after a
few minutes.
‘Wes, I know.”
She rubbed her honey-wet fingers through
the grass.
“I wish you weren’t, but”
“What?”
“I’m glad, too, because I’m afraid”
“Afraid? What of?”
“It’s not Charley, but grandfather! He
keeps muttering to himself: ‘l’ve a-told ’im
to git, but ’e’s laughed at me. He ain’t
goin’ to git ’les’ ’e’s made to!’ ”
West laughed at her mimicking of old Si
Evans’s way of talking. “And lie’s not going
to make me.”
“But he's not quite right in his head,
Mart,” Chris said. “That’s why I'm afraid.
And lie’s mad with you. You can under-
stand. lie’s had the gathering of honey in
these hills long as I can remember. Then
you came along—and you’ve cleaned out the
range.”
“Well, I’m going now.”
The bee-liunter moved with a gesture of
impatience.
“But it’s not for him —not on his account.”
Chris’s eyes went to his.
“Why are you going, Mart?” she asked.
The old man worming his way uphill on
his stomach made no more noise than a
snake or a bird. He had paused at the first
sound of that clear young voice; then he
crawled on through the long flowering and
seeding grasses and grey-leafed saplings until
he lay within a few yards of the two in the
sun-dappled clearing.
He drew himself up on his knee behind a
tree-trunk and lifted the rifle that lay beside
lam. His eyes glittered behind the strings,
with tags of cork on the end of them, that
hung from his weatherworn hat and bobbed
and swayed across his face. His arm trem-
bled against the long barrel of the rifle. He
measured his distance; his hand crept fur-
tively to the trigger. But the girl came into
his line of vision; she blocked his sight.
West lay gazing before, him, brushing
away the bees with a leafy branch.
“How long,” he asked, following his own
train of thought, “how long is it since you
and I set eyes on each other?’*
“Seems years,” Chris said.
“And it’s only a couple of months!”
“I feel as if I’d known you always!”
There was a vague trouble in her eyes. “I
don’t know what it’ll be like here when you
go. You —you make a sort of magic for me,
Mart.”
She went on, shyly, whimsically, as if she
were confiding in him :
“I feel as if the glory of the world were in
me, the wind, the sunshine and all the
flowers, when you’re here and I’m here. I
could fly. I might be a bird. . . .or one of the
wild bees we’ve been robbing. And my heart
sings. . . .sings.”
She half-turned away from him, plucking
at flowers in the grass.
The bee-hunter’s eyes followed her every
movement.
Si Evans, on the edge of the clearing,
trembled : his fingers twitched on the barrel
of his rifle.
- “Chris!”
The girl swung to that soft call.
“What’s the matter?”
Mart West leaned up to her.
Her eyes met his and fell. They took in
his length—the lithe, sinewy grace of his
body as he lay, the grass and wildflowers
pressed from under him. The column of his
bare, sunburnt throat, his face with its
stretched line of mouth, its quivering, deli-
cate" nostrils-, swam beneath her gaze, and
her eyes came again to his eyes that were
wells of passion and tenderness.
He caught her fingers as they strayed to
the flowers she had let fall.
“Don't. . . .don’t hold my hand,” she cried,
distressfully. “I can’t breathe. I can’t
move when you hold my hand, Mart. My
heart stops.”
“I love you....and you love me, Chris.”
he whispered.
“No.” There was a note of anguish in
her voice. “I love Charley. I’ve promised
to Grandfather and I we’ve been
living on his lancf, in his house, not paying
rent for goodness knows how long, because
it’s always been understood I was going to
marry Charley, and it would be all right in
the end.”
West let her hand fall. He sat up. His
eyes were level with hers.
Si pressed his rifle to his shoulder. His
eyes went along the barrel with lightning
rapidity.
But Chris was leaning forward.
“When you look at me like that, Mart,”
she cried, the liquid melody, the awakening
joy and wonder of a bird’s song at dawn in
her voice, “I see a light in your eyes that
glows; far away, like a golden moon; but
it grows and grows till I’m afraid I’ll be
drowned in it.”
The bee-hunter’s face dropped to hers; his
arm went round her.
“There’s honey on your lips ; Chris —wild
honey,”' he whispered.
Si's limbs ached with being stretched so
long against the earth. Every nerve plagued
him.
The girl’s, quick ears caught a stir in the
brushwood.
“What was that?” she asked, startled.
“What?”
West’s eyes did not leave her face.
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY COMPLAINT MAKES HOME A HOSPITAL
A gloom is cast over the home when one of the family is taken with kidney complaint. His sallow complexion, his heavy
eyes, his hopeless expression,, all awaken sympathy and tell of the suffering he is enduring. He leaves his meals half-finished,
and when he rises from a chair'he turns dizzy with the agonising pain, and his hand ffies*to his back.
Many men and women living in our neighborhood have been cured to STAY cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the
special kidney and bladder medicine. The genuine Doan’s Pills gently restore health to the delicate kidney organism, helping
the kidneys to purify the blood and drive out the liquid waste that is the
cause oi backaches, sleeplessness, rheumatism, urinary disorders, gravel,,
stone in the bladder, and the fatal Bright’s disease.
1 eopie who suffered from kidney disorders tell here how Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cuied them years ago, and to-day they are still enjoying splendid
health. Their lasting cures will encourag'e you.
Every Picture
Te//s A Story "
'J
\
\
Price 2/0 per bottle, or post free from Foster,
McClellan Co., 7G Pitt Street, Sydney.
Doan’s Pills Give Lasting Benefit.
Sydney Pe.ple Say So.
17 YEARS CURED.
\Tr. \\ illiam Carroll, sen., ex-railway guard.
7V.) Harris Street, Pyrraont, says:- —“Some time
ago- I Strained myself pushing some heavy trucks,
and soon noticed the effect in the small of my back,
lor three solid months I was unable to work. 1
was laid up. I had a very lame back, and a dull
pain through the loins and the kidneys, and my
secretions became unnatural and irregular. I con-
sulted a doctor, who recommended Turkish Baths
but though I got a little ease I could not work. I
used Doan's Backache Kidney Bills, and obtained
wonderful relief. I am so much better that I can
now do .heavy work. I am firmly convinced that
itomes Backache Kidney Bills are a true kidney
remedy, and I never fail to recommend them among
my mends.
Seventeen years later Mrs. Carroll confirms the
above:— My husband has been free of backache
and urinary trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney
fills cured lum seventeen years ago. His cure
proves that this remedy is a thoroughly good one ”
2 YEARS CURED.
Itobert Larcombe, monumental mason, Lid-
combe. Sydney-says :—“Off and on for years I suf-
fered agony from backache and kidney trouble. I
would go to bed feeling fairly well, but on rising hi
the morning my back would ache terribly. The
pains were sharp and shooting, and often so bad
that 1 used to scream out. I always had great
difficulty in stooping, and it was agony for me to
straighten up again if I had been in one position
tor any length of time. The kidney secretions were
also affected. 1 was'advised to try Doan’s Buck-
ache Kidney Dills, and I sent for some at once.
After using the first couple.of bottles I felt better
and five bottles completely cured me. I can recom-
mend Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills to all sufferer*
from kidney trouble, and feel sure they will benenr
by taking them.”
Two years later Mr. Larcombe says: ‘ It. j*
over two years since Doan’s Backache Kidney D
cured me of kidney trouble, and I have hod 11
return of the complaint all that time.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
"That noise, didn't you hear?”
“A bird or a snake.”
“No —it was something heavier, Mart. Let
me go and see.”
She disengaged herself and went to the
edge of the clearing. Old Si flattened him-
self against the trunk of a blaekbutt as she
peered through the brushwood. He thought
that she must see him ; but she looked low in
the grass and among the bushes, and he was
a few yards away.
“No, there’s nothing here,” she cried after
a few minutes. “It must have been a bird.”
She continued to search among the bushes.
"Chris!” West called.
“What?” shyly, reluctantly, she replied.
“Come back!”
“No.”
She turned and stood a little way off,
smiling at him.
“Then I’ll come for you!”
He sprang towards her. She eluded his
outstretched hands. They ran backwards
and forwards, turning and doubling, as joy-
bewildered, sun-intoxicated as the butterflies
that drifted into the clearing. Si tried to
get his shot, but they were never still a
moment, and never a moment far apart. He
sighted and lowered his rifle a dozen times.
Chris stumbled and West caught her.
“Oh, Mart!” she cried beseechingly, as he
'bent over her.
“Will you ever do it again?” he asked.
“What?”
“Run away from me?”
“No, never!”
She slipped out of his arms again and was
gone down an aisle of the forest with elfish
laughter. He ran after her.
Si left his ambush and loped across the
clearing,
“Darned thief —darned thievin’ vagabond,”
he muttered.
He peered along the path that wound over
the brow of the hill and dipped into the
depths of the trees again. Chris and the bee-
hunter had disappeared, but he could hear
them laughing and calling to each other.
“I’ve told ’im to git.” he went on, mum-
bling to himself. “I’ve a-told ’im to git. but
’e ain’t goin to git ’less ’e’s made to! I’d
’ve had ’im before now but for Chris —
couldn’t hurt her, my little Chris. What’s
she doin’ sweetheartin’ with him? Darned
thief —darned thievin’ vagabond ! What’d
Charley say?.. . .Where are they? Where
’ve they gone to ?”
He hovered uncertainly among the trees at
the top of the clearing. Once he crept warily
a little distance along the track, but he came
back. His eyes lighted on Chris’s bonnet
and West’s tools, which lay at the foot of a
white gum near the tree that had been felled.
The warm, sweet-scented hours of mid-day
passed—hours when the very leaves of the
trees breathed fragrance, and the masses of
wliite-gum blossoms, dripping honey, swooned
on the air, drowsy with the hum of insects
in thefn. Only the cries of the birds, long,
far-away callings of mate to mate, shy twit-
terings in the undergrowth, and the murmur
of bees that still hovered distractedly over
their fallen home, disturbed the silence.
Si shrank into the bushes that grew beside
the' track. lie was ready for them when
Chris and the bee-hunter came back along
the path. They scarcely seemed to be walk-
ing at all. They drifted into the clearing—
but Chris was nearest to the muzzle of the
rifle. Her arm was linked in the bee-
hunter’s. She swayed against him as she
walked. I lei- little dark head brushed his
shoulder. She was clinging to him with
a lingering tenderness : but there was a sub-
dued air about her, a wistful sadness.
Si’s gesture of impatience betrayed him.
The branch of a shrub snapped behind him.
Chris lifted her head.
“What was that?” she asked.
“What?”
The bee-hunter, too deep in his content to
be disturbed, smiled into her eyes.
“I thought I heard something moving in
the bushes.”
“A bird !”
“Yes, perhaps. Two or three times I’ve
thought I heard someone near.”
“You’re dreaming!”
“Yes,” Chris sighed. He kissed her and
she turned as if to go away.
“I’ll have to be going now, Mart,” she
said. “They’ll be wondering what has become
of me.”
“Who?”
“Grandfather and Charley. Good-bye.”
He stared at her, shaken out of all con-
sciousness for a moment by that word and
the note of her voice.
“You don’t mean that?” he gasped. “You
don’t mean”- ——
“Oh,” she cried, “don’t you see it’s got to
be good-bye, now —at this moment.”
“You’re not going to marry me?”
“Oh, it’s like the end of the world, Mart;
but .... I told you. I’ve promised Charley.
Seems I belong to him, Mart. . . .that I owe
him something I must pay.”
He caught her hands and held them.
“Oh. I never felt to him like I do to you,
Mart.”
“You shan’t go. You shan’t leave me,”
West said.
“But I must!”
“You’ll put the world into darkness if you
leave me, Chris,” he cried. “I’d rather die
with to-day than try to live without you.”
“Oh, my dear!” She took his face between
her hands and kissed it gently.
“Chris! Chris!”
The voice floated up from the depths of
the trees.
“It’s Charley calling—l must go.”
She disengaged herself and moved away.
Crooked and trembling, the . bee-hunter’s
arms went after her.
“Chris... .don’t leave me!” he cried.
She went on across the open space. He
stood a moment watching lie]’. Then his
arms fell. Old Si leant forward, but with a
swift movement the bee-hunter had gone to
the tree under which his tools lay. It was a
little higher up on the same side as the
fallen tree. Si had to shift his position, but
he got level again.
West began to climb the tree. Chris turned
on the edge of the clearing.
“Chris! Chris!” Charley called again.
He was coming up the hill, whistling happily.
A presentiment of danger possessed the
girl.
“Oh, do come down, Mart!” she cried.
Old Si was taking aim deliberately.
“Nothing to be afraid of!” West called.
“I’m used to climbing. Another nest here!
Thought there was! Don’t think I'll take it
myself. You —you tell your grandfather
about it, Chris.”
Si saw him up among the high branches,
his lean figure outlined against a patch of
blue sky. But before Si could shoot the
figure, lurched backwards and came crashing
through the dark leaves and blossom,
Si heard Chris scream, saw her run to
where the bee-hunter had come down beyond
the fallen tree. He heard her calling and
crying. Then all was still. He stood staring
before him, clutching his rifle.
The young farmer, coming up hill behind
him, caught his arm.
“Here, what are you doing. Si?” he asked.
“Where’s Chris?”
“I didn’t do it. I didn’t, Charley,” Si
whimpered. “I meant to, but I didn’t....
and he’s dead. You ask Chris, she knows.”
“Who’s dead?” Charley asked sharply.
“Who? Why?” Si glanced about him
suspiciously. “Mart West. He—he’s broke
’is neck. Fell from a tree, nest huntin’,
couple of minutes ago.”
“What!” Charley gasped. “Where is he?
What happened?”
“Eh?” Si looked about him vaguely.
Charley shook him by the shoulders.
“Where is he? What happened? Where’s
Chris?” he demanded.
“Dunno,” Si whispered, but his gaze wan-
dered across the clearing.
The young man heard a sobbing cry and
went in the direction it came from.
Old Si looked after him, a malicious
humor glimmering in his eyes. The cork
strings swayed across his face. A little crazy,
twittering laughter fluttered across his lips.
“It’s no use you goin’ after her, Charley,”
he muttered. “No use ! If they’ve tasted the
wild honey—it’s that they’re wantin’ always
—and to be out after the wild bees’ nests.
Was there ever anything in the world like
wild honey. Mart? There’s the sunshine in
it. the smell of the flowers, the song of the
birds —and always a bitterness.”
KATHERINE S. PRICHARD.
Old Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T IE old man died to-night, and now
Here on the bed, with near-shut eyes,
And wide spare frame, and grizzled
brow*.
And gnarled hands folded neat, he lies.
All has been done that Could be done—
The camphor-scented, creaseless sheet,
The blinds drawn decent every one.
The candles at his head and feet,
The cakes and bottle in the hall,
The big men walking tip-toe round.
The mourning knocker’s muffled fall,
The crape about the door-knob hm„ i "
Big-hearted, unafraid to go, ,||
Standing a man in all men>s sight
lie was not feared of death, and so’
Death came for him to-night.
I stooped and drew from round his f a ,
The linen of the screening shroud. ' W
"Xovor a man to fill his place
Who’s sleeping there so Waxempr olu ]
Him that was man through sun and
I whispered to the corners dim ' t( ' Ss ’
Oh. sorrow for the emptiness.
It is myself that misses him'
-Old, inward through the doorway borne
But now, through laden stillness biX
The muttering grief of men that mom n
The keening ot the women-folk • ’
But. dreaming here of time that was ■
I know that, passing all the rest, ’ '
‘Tis I that miss him most, because
’Twas I that knew him best.
Out where the moving shadows file
Across the kitchen-doorway light
The broad-axe leans against the pile-
lie left it there but yesternight. -
And, with my heavy heart-beats fused
The yard-tap drips in dull tattoo. ’ *
Missing the hand of him who used
To turn and check it, passing through'
And, forepaws resting on my thighs 8 M
And rough tongue rasping on my h an( j s
Here by my chair, with swimming eyes ’ I
The wolf-dog looks and understands'
Hard-trodden tracks and pastures grassed
It’s lonely now you’ll be for me!*
Oh, sadness for the days gone past
And for the nights to be!
Back in tin 1 land his boyhood saw—
’Tis so I’ve heard the gossips speak—
A scraping rush might graze and draw
The full blood from his ruddy cheek' !
Supple and strong as beaten steel
At boulder-toss or wrestling-fall.
So fleet that none might touch his heel,
Whose like was not in Donegal! .’ I
And even when, but eight days since.
The wind came down with sudden cold.
I gave no heed to see him wince,
Or thought to call the old man old.
It’s many a thing I’ve left undone
And many a word I could have said
That might have warmed the living one.
But cannot move the dead.
.Tust now the door-draught from the hall
Blew on the light with sudden chill
And shook his profile on the wall—
So clear, it might be living still.
Strange rustlings in the corners start,
The sad air broods with grief endowed.
Lite's winter lies upon my heart
And tears upon the shroud.
The dull blood in my pulses drums,
The Christ’s face flickers in the gloom,
A half-hushed clink of glasses comes
From somewhere in a hidden room.
Oh. you who were not feared to give
Strong hands to Death, and greet him thus.
'Tis hungry that our hearts will live,
For you that’s gone from us!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


-
WESTINGHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
“ DESIGN. MATERIALS a" * 4/
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
8
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
Becchams Pills
may be relied upon, at all times, to exercise a tonic,
cleansing, healing influence upon the digestive organs.
A sensible use of this well-known specific is generally
all that is needed to relieve and remove those disorders
of the stomach liver and bowels, which are always
associated with dyspepsia in any form. Beecham's Pills
are unfailing as a corrective and invaluable as a safe
stimulant of that important organ, the liver, upon the
efficient action of which so much depends. As a cure
for constipation and for removing its attendant discom-
forts and dangers there is no more reliable remedy. In
fact, as an aid to health generally, the judicious use of
Beecham s Pills is strongly recommended. They are
H Boon to M
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills). 1/1 a (56 pills) & 2/9 (IGB pills).
&
//
\
u
Z*?S
m
i f
'"I
A2 -'«
m
CARTRIDGES
* TJISCRIMINATING users
of sliot gun cartridges Lave
given tLe Remington UMG
brand tLe stamp of their approv-
al. Supplied in black and smokeless pow-
der loads. All cases are waterproofed.
Ask your dealer for them or send for
descriptive catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO./
D. D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
Vaseline
Tired# Mark Registered
Hair Tonic
A health-giving
dressing for the scalp.
. Prevents dandruff
and falling of the hair.
Refuse substitutes.
For sale at all chem-
ists and general
stores.
Cliesebrough Manufacturing Co.
_ (Consolidated)
U State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
'fhe Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
>UUilu:v
CURES write for Book
atol an blight, fallinc eyelashes, weak sight.
*• GRdEN, 210. Lambeth Road. I.nndnn Fnortanil.
GRcEN, 210, Lambeth Road, Londoi
Insist on “Singleton’s’’—refuse all
England
tutes.
The Secret of a Successful Shave
Send Penny
Stamped envelope
fdr Free Sample
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN
£
£*
<j?o
s now admitted by those who have given
the matter careful thought, to depend
almost entirely on the kind of shav-
ing soap used. After three
years of experimenting,
SHAVING CREAM
has stood the severest tests, and shown itself
to be the ideal shaving medium.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND STORES
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
109 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W. Lower Cuba Street, Wellington, N. Z.
Enclosed in a collapsible
tube, it can be kept clean
and aseptic. Concentrated
and free from caustic, a
very small amount will
produce a rich creamy
lather that will not dry on
the face, or burn the skin.
It will soften the tough-
est beard without the
mussy “rubbing in” and
the “morning hot-water”,
that were, heretofore, con-
sidered essential.
Antiseptic Rapid
Economical
1
jn
$0:
■cm
Stfi
jm
thoroughly British and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents : HAMMOND (a CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents: QLD. MOTOR. AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street
Victorian Agents: H. C. PANNIFEX, 20 MarKet Street, Melbourne*
South Australian Ag'ents: GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
Brisbane.


MANGROVITE'
LEATHER
igmH
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowicl,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
The Mine Manager’s Friend.
The Celebrated "An Eagle on a Globe” Brand Mining Steel.
Easy to Sharpen, Durable
and Efficient.
Supplied
in CCTAGCN and
CRUCIFORM SOLID SECTIONS,
HEXAGON and ROUND HOLLOW SECTIOJS.
AUSTRALIAN
ggg OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
BUILD WITH ■
FIBROLITE
The Australian-made
Asbestos Cement Sheets
Because, while construction costs are
lower, they last better than Weather
boards and are Fire-, Rain-, Rot- and
Whites nt-proof. They are cheaper
by one-third to paint, and insurance
rates are 25 per cent, less, as com-
pared with wood.
Write us for prices and full details.
JAMES HARDIE S CO.,
Phone 6239. Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
WOLFES
Acts directly and
in vvii
Wiuw
(UK mini till ID
•tIIUII
««■!» limitt mint
in
SCHNAPPS
biuXnjjhjJ
the bladder and
the kidneys.
Tangye Portable Lampless Oil Engine
Dalgety’s Machinery Department
MILLER'S POINT, SYDNEY.
Handling- the following High-grade and Well-known Agencies:—
TAN6YE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers, Pumps of all descriptions.
TANGYE Suction Gas Plants, Winches, Lifting Jacks, Punching Bears, Chain Hoists, Etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction Engines. NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements.
JOHN BUNCLE & SONS Chaffcutters. E.R.B. Separator Engines. E.R.B. Farm Pump Outfits.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines and Cream Separators. GANE Milking Machines.
Interesting descriptive Catalogues of any of above lines Posted Gratis to any address.
m
Clayton & Shuttlewortb
Portable Steam Engins,
a*
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
Profitable to pastoralists;
satisfactory to shearers.
The “Wolseley”—the world’s standard Shearing Machine —gives genuine satis-
faction, and is built properly to meet all conditions and requirements.
For best results —use a “Wolseley.” Obtain full particulars from
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD., Aastrala.sia.sii Agents—-—ALL BRANCHES.
ere’s a Machine you. can rig «p
and easily for Sanding
► pecial and Irregular-shaped WorK.
0
Its value lies in the many ways it can be “rigged up,” adaptable to sanding almost any
shape and in any form.
Table Legs, either flat, oval, straight or curved, Drawer Fronts, Shelves for Cabinets, Chair
Legs, rounded over Toilet Frames, Veneered Posts, Chair Seats and Backs, Cross Veneered
O.G. Mouldings, Mirror Frames and Standards, Moulded Arms, lialf-and quarter-round Mould-
ings, or any piece of flat or rounded work are among the numerous operations it will handle
economically.
Consider the advantages such a machine would mean to your plant, and write for full par-
ticulars and price.
“Belt Sanding,” a series of practical articles on Sanding, is yours for the asking.
Sols
Agents
••
CO. L
• f
Engineers <£L Machinery Merc Hants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
STARTS COLD WITHOUT PRE HEATING
BUILT TO LAST A LIFETIME.
AN ENGINE WITHOUT IGNITION TROUBLES.
NO MAGNETO.
NO CARBURETTER.
NO HEATING.
The HOOE OIL ENGINE
OPERATES ON THE CHEAPEST OIL OBTAINABLE.
FUEL CONSUMPTION: HALF-PINT PER B.H.P. PER HOUR.
MANUFACTURED BY SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., City Office: EQUITABLE BUILDING. 350 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
PS tioi&
wmm
