

Ihe Whisky or txquisite laste
R. ». WATKINS dfc 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent, Street,, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining 1 Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
> .ft
; »*
UT'rr r-f ir:^?
sd
Next to "Dally Telegraph” New Building.
180 Costlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
On oil Classes of Security
DXS COUTSfTED
Easylenus Interest
NSWM3NTDE PIETE-D-&I-C?LW
HEAD OFFICER C ASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.'
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 0325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
F
Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN
► Made in Australia %;i
fPEDHICKSTEARHStC?
SYDNEY.
3
Take it back.
I must have -
SS
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUB BS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
fsjssmm
J
unket
tablets
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 180 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from **
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 Goorgo Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
••NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS
P. & B. Building Paper is unsurpassed.
It is a perfect lining for roofs, floors, walls, etc.; is dust aad damp proof, prevents draughts,
Is odorless, strong and enduring. Write at once for samples and details, post free.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (®. 3. EVANS, AUSTRALASIAN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, 6YDNEY.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
/ i locomotive:, GENERAL 8c agricultural, engineers.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
ROAD METAL fk FARM WAGGONS. IRON a MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
. '
SHREDDER DISCS.
Ci
MACHINERY
“Robey” High-class Steam Engines, “National” Gas, Oil and Suction Gas
Engines, Steam Waggons, Road Graders, Scoops and Plows, Nestable Corru-
gated Metal Culverts, Concrete Mixers, Discus Church Organ Blowers, Malleable
Pipe Fittings, etc., etc. ALSO MODERN MACHINERY FOR Road Building,
Earth Handling, Elevating and Conveying, Stone Breaking and Pumping and
Irrigating. Drawings and Suggestions gratis upon receipt of Requirements.
Head Office: Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
lavender
WATER.
The Bulletin
VoL 38 —No: 1936.]
[Thursday, March 22, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WAR. BOOKS THAT Is. 6d. WILL BUY
Fragments from France, by Capt. Brace Balmsfather. Parts 1,
2, and 3 now ready.
Pte. Pinkerton, Millionaire, by Harold Ashton.
Aunt Sarah and the War.
Cnpirt in Oilskins, by J. .T. Bell.
Chief of the Staff - , by Mrs. Kenneth Combe.
A Naval Motley, by Lieut. N. M. F. Corbett, R.N.
Llovd George’s Munition Girls, by M. Cosens.
My fears in the Kaiser's Army, by an Ex-Offleer.
The Great Advance. Tales from the Somme Battlefield.
Tommy, by Joseph Hocking.
Russian Chaps, by M. C. Lethbridge.
A Kiss from Franco, by A. Neil Fyons.
The Irish at the Front, by Michael MacDonagh, with a preface by
John Redmond, M.P.
The Green Curve, by Ole Imk-Oie,
“Odd-Shots,” by One of the Jocks.
War and the Weird, by Phillips and Hopkins.
POSTAGE , 2d. MACS EXTRA.
COLE’S BOOR ARCADE. 516 George Street, Sydney.
HINDENBURG’S
MARCH INTO
LONDON.
Being a Translation
from the German
Original. With a
Preface by
L. G. Redmond-Howard.
POCKET EDITIONS for the TRENCHES
Th* Best Book* for lending to our Soldier Boy* in
England, France and Egypt.
In attractive cloth bindings, by 45 inches with
decorated end-paper* and colored illustrations.
Price 4/- each. (Postage: Id. within the Com-
monwealth ; 2d, to N.Z.; sd. Abroad.)
New Volume Just Issued.
SALTBUSH BILL, J.P., AND OTHER VERSES!
By Major A. B. Patsmon (“The Banjo”)* "With
colored Illustrations by Lionel Lindsay.
THE MOODS OF GINGER MICK. By
C. J. Dennis. With colored and other illus-
trations bv Hal Gye. „
THE AUSTRALIAN. and OTHER
VERSES. By Will H. Ogilvie. With
colored illustrations by Hal- Gye-
SONGS OF A SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
By C. J 7 Dennis. With colored and other illus-
trations by Hal Gye.
New Editions Just Added to the Series.
THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER. By
*Major A. B. Paterson. With colored Qlustra-
tions by Norman Lindsay.
RIO GRANDE, and OTHER VERSES.
By Major A. B. Paterson. With colored Illus-
trations by Hal Gye.
Angus (St Robertson Limited,
few and gecondhaad Bookseller*,
89-95 Castlereag'h St., Sydney.
wn\
£
7
* #
*%*
4^
<**
&
Q4>
4L*
MUSTDIE
KILLS FLIES
The Red Page
About Maggots
Arthur Symons collects two dozen of his
essays upon books ;ind the makers of books
under the title Figures of Several Centuries
(Constable, per Sydney Book Club). To
the average reader of literature many of
these brilliant studies will be somewhat
familiar; none of them . are really
recent. It is a painful thought that
in a world already overcrowded with
people who write about life, there exist
people who write about other people who
write, and books that are written about other
books. These human beings, once removed, are
kindly called literary critics; their function,
really, is to act as spruikers in front of the
picture-show of literature —and among them
may be dimly discerned the shrinking figure
of the Red Page. We are the parasites of
literature, getting a modest living out of our
unwilling host. And, like all parasites, we
hold fast the conviction that it does litera-
ture good to have parasites: we keep litera-
ture from brooding on the fact that it is
literature. Arthur Symons is a charming
species of literary flea, lie writes lucidly
and with knowledge of liis various hosts:
Saint Augustine and his Confessions, Charles
Lamb, Villon, Casanova, Swinburne, Ros-
setti, Hardy, Ibsen, Baudelaire, Pater, Pat-
more, and the rest of them —mostly dead.
That is the main characteristic of the literary
parasite: an author must be sufficiently dead
before the literary blowfly will browse on
him. And that is why this plague of blow-
flies is superfluous. They go on breeding
critical maggots that do not matter. If any'
young thing yearns to know about
Casanova or Emily Bronte, the only soul-
satisfying way is to borrow Norman Lind-
say’s copy of the former estimable author or
purchase a cheap edition of the latter’s
Wuthering Heights. Doubtless she will be
grateful to Arthur Symons for reminding
her that there are such authors as Casanova
or Emily; but the only way to see a picture-
show is to disregard the spruiker and go
right in. Arthur Symons’ idea of the pic-
ture-show will certainly not be hers —after
she has seen the film. The reputations of
quite dead authors may be left to take care
of themselves. Of course, there remains a
scientific or merely frivolous curiosity on our
part to know exactly what a blowfly thinks
about the dead sheep it is using as a mater-
nity hospital. But for students of literature
that hardly matters. The reputations, or
smells, of dead authors may be left to take
care of themselves. You can always discover
the corpses neatly buried in bookshops or
public libraries.
But where the parasitic critic could be of
some use is in the discovery of live authors,
new, struggling, embyro authors. And here
this particular red-pageish parasite does
attempt to find its proper function. It
makes its eager guesses at what a new Aus-
tralian author means, and it presents that
personal guess for the consideration of its
readers. If it succeeds in attracting atten-
tion to some new Australian with something
to say, it is content. But it doesn’t expect
you to agree with its peculiar views; all It
attempts to say is: “Here’s some new wrig-
gling thing that is worth watching. To me it
appears such-and-such a kind of thing; I
may be quite wrong. Have a look at him
yourself, and judge. At least, you’ll find his
squirmings interesting.” And sometimes the
wriggling insect itself finds it interesting.
Some of these literary parasites perform
a double function: Arthur Symons writes
delightful poems in his parasitic intervals:
Thus it is not fair to judge Rupert Brooke,
who is solely a poet, by his essay on John
Webster and the Elizabethan Drama (Sidg-
wick and Jackson, per Sydney Book Club).
A poet infesting an Elizabethan dramatist is
interesting chiefly because we are interested
in the recently-living parasite and hardly in-
terested at all in his very dead host. Those
of us who are interested in John Webster
can make up our minds about him by read-
ing his chief plays. To ask Rupert Brooke
to make up our mind about Webster is to
ask somebody else to eat our dinner and tell
us whether it was a good dinner or not. So
this volume is valuable only in so far as it
tells us things about an interesting contem-
porary who has left us singularly little
about himself for us to discuss. Thus his
definition of a good Elizabethan play as a
Elay that would have been good in Eliza-
ethan times affords us a new Insight into
the downrightness of Rupert Brooke’s mind.
And his difficulties in appreciating that
drama are ours: “An Elizabethan play is
written in a language somewhat different
from ours, and pronounced differently, too,
and it was performed in conditions we do
not completely know and cannot at all
realise. It was composed for an audience
accustomed to the platform stage and no
scenery; which we can never be. It was
composed for the stage, and we judge it as
literature; we are only readers It Is right
enough to admire their great literary merits
and their rather accidental power as study-
drama. But, after all, we hare only the text
—and that a not always trustworthy ope —
one factor of several in the play, a residue,
fragments of the whole.. We are like men
who possess sweet-smelling shards of a jar
which once held perfumes, and know how
fragrant it must have been; but the jar Is
broken and the perfumes lost.”
And it is pleasant to find this modern
quite free from the literary idolatry with
which our Shakspeare parasites contemplate
the Elizabethans. Brooke mentions that
critics have always idiotically thought it
their duty to praise tlie chronicle-plays,
partly because Shakspeare, in obedience to
popular demand, wrote some; partly because
they are supposed to exemplify the patriot-
ism of the Elizabethans, and we are sup-
posed to enjoy that patriotism. “It must be
clearly decided that these histories were a
transient, dreary, childish kind.” The same
fate lias overtaken the romantic comedies,
though “Shakspeare threw a pink magic over
them.” “The whole stuff of this kind of
play—disguises, sentimentality, girls in boys’
clothes, southern romance —was very thin.”
Wisely Brooke contrasts this class of play
with the crude, but realistic, domestic trag-
edies of that time, dramatisations of recent
occurrences, which profoundly influenced the
Elizabethan tragedy that was to come.
Brooke has some sane words to say about
the shocked modern critics’ pain at “the
depth of gross and vicious realism to which
the comedy of manners descended.” Frankly
Brooke says: “The Elizabethans liked
obscenity... .If literary criticism crosses
Lethe, and we could hear the comments of
the foul-mouthed ghosts of Shakspeare, Mar-
lowe and Webster on this too common atti-
tude, their outspoken uncleanliness would
prostrate these modern critics.” And it is
interesting to hear Webster’s opinion of his
contemporaries. He puts them in this order
of merit: Chapman; Jonson; Beaumont
and Fletcher; Shakspeare, Dekker and Hey-
wood. And for those who prefer to read
Webster rather than to hear what even so
poetic a maggot as Rupert Brooke thinks of
that corpse, this particular parasite remarks:
“A play of Webster’s is full of the feverish
and ghastly turmoil of a nest of maggots.
Maggots are what the inhabitants of this
universe most suggest and resemble
Human beings are writhing grubs in an
immense night. And the night is without
stars or moon. But it has sometimes a cer-
tain quietude in its darkness; but not very
much.”
Drama
Plays of the Natural . and the Super-
natural, by Theodore Dreiser (Lane, New
York, per Dymock’s Library), is an extra-
ordinary collection. Two of these one-act
plays are episodes in the life of the New
York poor, grimly and realistically treated.
The rest read like scenarios for motion-
pictures. In The Blue Sphere the scene
changes nearly every page. The . leading
character is a monstrosity of a child with
a head almost twice the normal size, whose
only speech is "Urg-übbla-da! Blub !” “A
shadow/’ carrying a blue sphere, attempts
to lead the monstrosity down on to the rail-
way track, and in the distance, at intervals
during the scene, the express train is heard
saying to itself, “0000000-ee! Ooh-ook!” as
it approaches. All the efforts of the shadow
with the glorious blue sphere to entice the
child to its death are thwarted by uncon-
scious human agency, until at last the shadow
tempts the child on to the line, and the
express mercifully ends its hopeless life. The
conductor remarks, “Well, it’s God’s blessing
if a child had to be killed it. was a deformed
one, anyway.” It is a horrible nightmare,
yet there is a fine purpose in its construc-
tion and development.
Laughing Gas is a still more impossible
play. It is just the psychical experiences
of a mao under the influence of nitrous
oxide undergoing a minor operation. The
chief character of this weird experience is
“The Rhythm of the Universe,” who says
nothing but “Om! Om! 0m!....” The
operation takes a serious turn, and the
patient’s life is in danger. The struggle by
the surgeon to save his life is paralleled by
the struggle that is represented as going on
in the various higher psychical planes. The
patient’s own thoughts take physical shape
and voice. Yet possibly only by these means
could the author get the realistic and con-
vincing effect he produces.
In the Dark is just a sordid murder, with
wraiths and assorted ghosts and' policemen
and dogs, and with the scene changing with
almost every flicker of the film. The Spring
Recital has more imagination in it. An
organist gives a recital- in a church. The
public does not come, except a pair of
lovers and a few stragglers, but the music
of the organ attracts the dead, the fauns,
the nymphs, the hags and all the other
animal and human spirits. Also a dead
loafer, who- jeers at the spirits of Egyptian
priests and monks and Scotchbyterian min-
isters: “Yon thought you knew somepin’
when you were alive, didn’ j&h? You thought
you were smart, huh? You thought you’d
find out somepin’ when yuh died, huh?
Well, yuh got fooled, didn’ jah? You’re like
all the other stiffs that walk about and
think they know a lot. Yuh got left. Har!
Har! Har! I know as much as you fellew,
and I're only been dead a dozen year*.
There ain’t no answer! Oh, ho, ho!”
Thereupon he grins maliciously and exe-
cutes a crude clog dance. But the next
moment, attracted by the beauty of the
musie—the organist thinking that he is
playing only for four people—troops of
fauns and nymphs and hama-dryads dance
in, “persistences of fish and birds and ani-
mals, attracted by the rhythm which is both
color and harmony to them, turn and weave
among the others,” and the ancient and
newly dead join the glad throng. The scene
ends with the weary organist leaving the
darkened clmrcli, thinking of the nearest
pub, with the young lovers embracing, with
the dead loafer saying gloomily, “Now I
gotta find somepin’ else,” and the church cat
resolutely remarking, “Now for one more
try for that mouse !”
Some day this is just the sort of play
that we shall see at the moving-pictures.
Possibly Theodore Dreisser is subconsciously
feeling for a new dramatic form to fit this
new dramatic medium.
Alfred Sutro lias a right to be annoyed by
the war. He had just finished a new play,
Freedom. (Duckworth, per Dymock’s
Library), when the Kaiser decided to stage
a drama of his own. For Freedom deals
exclusively with the sex question, and in
the way the sex question was treated in those
forgotten ante-bellum days. “During the
past two years women have given proof of
such heroism aud devotion.... that it seems
an impertinence to publish a play in which
they are shown concerned merely with one
minor issue, struggling for a freedom that
affects themselves alone.” Sutro says that
that female is out-of-date; but offers his play
as possessing some value as an indication of
the state of affairs from which the war
rescued us.
Here are the usual women demanding
their “rights,” and their men who help them
in their struggle. The principal characters
are the proprietors of a woman’s rights’
journal. Theoretically they believe in the
right of any woman to have a child without
being married; but when one of the men
confesses that his “wife” is not really his
wife, the other men insist on him going
through the rite of marriage. Having drunk
too much, this man blurts out the fact that
the wife of one of his friends is in love with
the husband of another. But the outraged
husband does not treat the matter from the
high philosophic standpoint of his journal.
He merely tries to kill the other man and
almost strangles the offending wife. Miriam,
the wife who had caused all the trouble, ex-
plains quite calmly that she took on_ a lover
because she rebelled against the feeling that
she belonged to her husband. “There’s some-
thing in us that hates law —revolts from it
—the law that we haven’t made!” Also she
was equally annoyed with both men—her
husband for being “so abominably sure” of
her, and the lover who refrained so long
from making love to her “because to him,
too, I was your property.” So, proudly,
triumphantly, she gave herself to the other
man! And then she “resented the way he
looked at me —his little conquering air.” And
finally she discovered that die loved her hus-
band best! But when her husband threatens
to divorce her she promises to be good, be-
cause she does not want to be taken from
her children. Her fault, she cont nds, is too
trivial to have such a punishment. “The
law allows you to hit the mother through
her children.” If only somebody—husband
or lover —had spanked Miriam! But then
there would have been no play.
The moral is that women should have
their freedom, because it is only when they
have got their freedom that they’ll learn
how to use it. But Sutro shows, in
the .characters of two of his women,
that they haven’t by- any means learned
to handle that freedom. Fanny explains
to a suffragette who asks all women
to stand together, that women never will.
“They’ll always be the woman like me. I’m
one of the betwixts and betweens. Just got
my bit of good looks. And they’re going.”
Fanny didn’t expect her man to marry her
at first, because she had had an “adventure”
before she met him, and he knew. But she
hoped that some day he would marry her.
Eve. the wife of the erring husband, i*
another type. She knows all about her hus-
band’s affairs, but: “What can one do?
I’ve been very miserable, of course. But it
happens to so many women.... You see, I
love him... .One loves, because one loves.
I suppose wemen are like that. At least
some women. They just cry a little, and go
on darning the children’s clothes.” “You
take it like that?” she is asked. "It’s the
best way, isn’t it?” she says. “Happier for
the children Whatever they do, or law*
that they make, there’ll always be Borne In
whose life there’ll be only one man. Women
like me.”
An interesting play, but dreadfully
“dated.” A quite dead play, almost as dead
as the suffragette.
J*
Hobson’s Choice, by Harold Bridhouse
(Constable, per Dymock’s Library), is an
interesting Lancashire play, with more meat
and genu me humor in u than we are likely
to see for a long time in Australia. It is
the sort of play that one would expect Arnold
Bennett to write if he would only write up
to and not down to his theatre public. It is
a play _of Lancashire character; the char-
acteristics of the Hobson family, their prac-
ticality, hard-headedness and aggressiveness
are just the characteristics that the average
Manchester man prides himself on possessing.
This delightful story of the domineering
daughter of a domineering old bootmaker has
all the charm and quaintness of Bunty Pulls
the Strings, though the no longer youthful
Maggie marries her man and manages his
business, and her father’s, by means of no
captivating charm, but by her downright
shrewdness and her grim, curt, business-like
determination.
Walt Mason is a cheerful verse-writer
who by the simple expedient of printing his
verse as prose has achieved a large popu-
larity ; Edgar Lee Masters achieved an
equal fame by writing prose as verse.
Mason’s Horse Sense amused John Masefield
and others. Hence he follows it with
Rippling Rimes (Duckworth, per Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, 2s. 6d.). His simple
philosophy is aptly expressed by “The Brief
Visit.”
I won’t be long in this vale of tears; my works
may run for a few more years, but even that is a
risky bet, and the sports are hedging already yet.
At morning a gent, feels gay and nice; and evening
finds him upon the ice, with his folded hands and
his long white gown, and his toes turned up and his
plans turned down. So, viewing this sad uncertainty,
and hearing the wash of the Dead Man’s Sea, I want
to chortle the best I can, and try to cheer up my
fellow-man; to make a fellow forget his care, and
make him laugh when he wants to .swear, is as
much as a poet can hope to do, whose lyre is
twisted and broke in two.
A little of this other Walt goes a long way.
An English critic remarked that after reading
the book through he experienced the vague
discomfort of wanting to sneeze and not
being able to. However, here is “The Handy
Editor”: —
When a man- has got a grievance that is keeping
him awake, some old mouldy, tiresome trouble that
has made his innards ache, then he comes a-cally-
hooting to the printing-office door, for he wants to
share hi# trouble with the humble editore. When
a man has got a hobby that has put him on the
bum, then the people flee a-shrieking when they
chance to see him come; but he knows one weary
mortal who must suffer and endure, so lie comes
to share his theories with the lowly editure.... When
a man has got. a story that with age was stiff and
stark when old Father Non'' told it to the people in
the ark, then he cornea a-bubblinsr over to tiie
Weekly Bugle’s lair, for he wants to share his
gladness with the soulful editaire. Oh, he’s always
freely giving of the things that make us tired, and
he’s often pretty stingy with the things that are
desired; he might bring a ray of sunlight to a life
that’s sad-and drear if he’d give the absent treatment
to the heartsick editeer.
• —-
H.G. (Gympie) suggests as a name for
Billjim’s Maoriland mate, “Moazac.”
The grim confession of Jack London: "I
hate my profession.... I assure you that I
do not write because I love the game. I
loathe it. only reason I write is be-
cause I am well- paid for my labor —that’s
what I call it—labor. I get lots of money
for my books and stories. I tell you I
would be glad to dig ditches for twice as
many hours as I devote to writing if only I
could get as much money. To me writing
is an easy way to make a fine living.
Unless I meant it I wouldn’t think of saying
a thing like this, for I am speaking for publi-
cation. I ‘am sincere when I say that my
profession sickens me. Every story that 1
write is for the money that will come to
me. I always write what the editors want,
not what' I’d like to write. I grind out
what the capitalist editors want, and the
editors hay only what the business and edi-
torial departments permit... .1 am weary
of everything. I no longer think of the
world or of the movement (the social revolu-
tion), or of writing as an art. lam a great
dreamer, hut I dream of my ranch, of
my wife. I dream of beautiful horses and
fine soil. I dream of the beautiful things
I own up in Sonoma County. And I write
for no other purpose than to add to the
beauty that now belongs to me. I write a
book for no other reason than to add three
or four hundred acres to my magnificent
estate. I writs a story with no other pur-
pose than to buy a stallion. To me my
cattle are more interesting than my profes-
sion.” Quite time he died, wasn’t it?


n
ANTHONY HORDERNS' for EVERYTHING
Anthony Horderns* for
the Enfield Two-StroKe
.©)
The 2i-h.p. ROYAL ENFIELD
TWO-STROKE MOTOR-CYCLE
embraces all those highly-efflcient features
which are embodied in each of the other
ROYAL ENFIELD MODELS.
The PATENT TWO-SPEED
COUNTERSHAFT GEAR, Cush
drive hub and chain transmission are all
fitted to the Standard Model. The result is
that, whilst being a genuine LIGHT-
WEIGHT MODEL, it is a MOTOR-
CYCLE of exceptional STRENGTH
As a
of construction, great FLEXIBILITY, and a splendid HILL CLIMBER,
whole it is a machine in which the UTMOST CONFIDENCE can be placed.
The TWO-STROKE ROYAL ENFIELD MODEL is not fitted with any valves,
having, in fact, only three movable parts in the engine. The specifications are: —
ENGINE. Two-stroke, bore 04 m/m., stroke 70 m/m., capacity 225 c.c.
TWO-SPEED and FREE ENGINE GEAR. The Patent Enfield Two-Speed and Free
Engine Gear, Expanding Clutch Type, direct drive for each gear.
TRANSMISSION.- —Chain Drive, best-quality Roller Chains.
CUSH-DRIVE HUB. Enfield Patent Cush Drive fitted to Back Wheel.
IGNITION. — L atest Type Magneto, Uaterproof Terminals.
CARBURETTER. —A.M.A.C., Multiple Jet.
LUBRICATION. Oil Mixed with Petrol.
TANK. —Royal K nfield improved pattern. Separate compartments for Oil and Pctro'l
WHEELS. 24 x 24, with Dpnlop Tyres.
FINISH. Enamelled in Best Black-Enamel, Tank artistically Panelled and Lined.
Anthony Horderns* Price — £,051101-
Illustrated Price List of 3-h.p. and 6-h.p. Models Post Free on Request.
Anthony Horderns*
for Value in Books
Everyman’s Library of Standard Literature.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly
what its name implies—a library for
the professional man, the business man,
the young man, the student, ami all
lovers of literature. There are over 700
titles to select from in the EVERY-
MAN’S LIBRARY, embracing the works
of foremost authors in the realms of
Fiction, Poetry, History, Theology,
Travel, Biography and Essays of famous
writers.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY contains
the best works that have been written
in all times and tongues, from Epictetus,
Cicero and Plutarch down to Dickens,
Scott, Ruskin and great Literary Lights
of the Victorian Era. Each volume is
uniformly bound, and printed in large,
clear type on specially-made paper, and
many are illustrated.
5
-rj- »
Sectional Bookcase, to
hold 50 vols., 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Price:
Cloth, I|3; Full Leather, 2/6.
Postage 2d. volume extra. Full list of titles post free.
HANDSOME OAK BOOKCASE (as illustrated) specially designed for
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY, made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with novel
interlocking device, to allow for extension. Top Section, 0/-; Base Unit,
6/6; Book Section (to hold 50 vols.), 8/6.
Anthony Horderns’ for the
Bushman’s Dniversal Bicycle
The Bushman’s Universal Bicycle is built of Genuine B.S.A. parts at our own
bicycle works, anti fitted with Dunlop Bushman’s Covers, specially for rough riding.
The strengthening stays stiffen the frame, making the Bushman’s Universal the
strongest model built. •
Price £l3/10/=
With
DUNLOP
BUSHMAN’S
COVERS.
f
NOTE the
s t r e n gthehing
Stays to stiffen
Frame, rendering
this Machine the
Strongest Model
Made.
THE FRAME is Best Weldless Steel Tubing, Double Butted. This is a specially-
strengthened frame, the front forks being supplemented with girder front forks, and also fitted
with a pair of extra back stays, these making it very convenient for strapping tanks for carrying
water, making it, at the same time, an almost unbreakable frame.
EADIE TWO-SPEED COASTER BACK HUB, which includes FREE
WHEEL on Both Gears, also Back Pedalling Brake on each gear.
SADDLE. Brooks’ B 10. Front rim brake.
FINISHED Black Enamel of highest quality, all bright parts heavily plated on copper.
DUNLOP BUSHMAN’S COVERS and HEAVY DUNLOP TUBES.
COMPLETE, with TOOLS, WRENCHES, INFLATER and OILER.
Fully Guaranteed for 12 Months.
PRICE
<£l 3/10/-
Anthony Horderns*
for Value in
WATCHES.
The FENCHURCH NONMAGNETIC
LEVER is a HIGH-GRADE, Open-face
KEYLESS WATCH for men, and one that
will stand HARD WEAR and ROUGH
USAGE.
The FENCHURCH is an ACCURATE
TIMEKEEPER, has Compensation Balance,
is fully Jewelled, and well finished.
The FENCHURCH is a SHORT-WIND
KEYLESS WATCH, in DUST- and
WATER-PROOF Case, fitted either with
Screw Bezel and Back, or Hinge, and Snap
Cases.
Nickel Silver Case, 15/-
Gun Metal, 16/-
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
The SOLDIER’S FENCHURCH SIL-
VER WRISTLET WATCH, with Lumin-
ous Dial. A Perfect Timekeeper, £2/12/6
to 70/-
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
The Uni Sirdar
is a good, strong, knock-about Keyless
Watch. It has a non-magnetic, keyless
movement, fully jewelled, compensating
balance. It is a thoroughly dependable and
accurate watch.
SOLID NICKEL CASE ... 16/6
OXIDISED 18/6
NICKEL HUNTING CASE. . 22/6
SILVER OPEN FACE 30/-
SILVER HUNTING CASE. . 37/6
By Registered Post, 6d. extra
All watches are timed and adjusted before
being despatched from our establishment.
J
V
fHE FENCHORCHUVEIt
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


wwcfftsmi
Rifles and Cartridges
if:
“SURE I USE ’EM!
I’ve been usin’ ’em
for a number of
years and expect
to continue to, as
they always do
the business.”
Ask any dyed-in-the-
wool sportsman about
Winchester rifles and
cartridges and that’s
about what he’ll tell you.
They are made in various
sizes for all kinds of
\ shooting and you’ll get
them if you ask for
ITHE^^BRAND!
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out. '
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once, lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract;
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
Hoofing
You should know
this trade mark.
Certain-teed
"DOOFlNGismade of the best quality roofing felt, thoroughly
saturated with a scientific blend of soft asphalts. A blended coat of
harder asphalts keeps soft the inner saturation and prevents drying out.
Certain-teed Roofing is endorsed by leading architects everywhere. You
should investigate its many merits. Our Sydney representative will be glad
4o supply you with samples and literature. Call on him soon.
Mr. C. C. McCann, Representative of
General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Perpetual Trustee Bldg., Sydney. N. S. W.
MILLS IN U. S. A.: East St. Louis, Illinois; Marseilles, Illinois; York, Pennsylvania; San
Francisco, California. LONDON OFFICE: Imperial House, Kingsway, London, W. C.
Distributors: John Danlts Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne; Jas. Campbell & Sons
Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe & Co., Adelaide.
sd
Tf any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for March.
fsd
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28233 Whispering Hope {Alice Hawthorne )
Soprano and contralto, orch. acc.
Marie Rappold and Christine Miller
The new Blue Amberol Records listed below are some
of the finest selections you could wish to hear.
The two Concert Records and the Specials for Easter
will be in great demand.
“Blow. Blow, Thou Winter Wind” (T. F. Why) is a
particularly beautiful item ; others that are sure to be
popular include: “What Have I to Give?” (E. B. Ran-
dolph) ; “Songs of Other Days—No. 1” (Metropolitan
Mixed Chorus) ; “Song of the Soul” (Marie Kaiser) ;
“Songs We Used to Sing in Dixie Land” (M. Alcoc-k
and male chorus) ; and “Played by a Military Band”
(Billy Murray).
It is advisable to make your selections at once.
28234 Lorsqu'a De Polles Amours —(Thy
Home in Pair Provence) Traviata
(Verdi). Baritone, orch ace.
Orphee Langevin
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2846 Ye Happy Bells of Easter Day—Easter
Carol, Traditional. Mixed voices,
orch. ace. The Carol Singers
2847 Let the Merry Church Bells Ring!
Easter Carol, Traditional. Mixed
voices, orch. flee. The Carol Singers
2848 Praise Ye (Attila). Cornet, trom-
bone and euphonium. Sodero's Band
2864 My Mother’s Rosary. Tenor, orch acc.
Walter Van Brunt
2872 Little Cotton Dolly. Male voices,
unaccompanied. Criterion Quaitet
2874 Played by a Military Band. Tenor,
orch. acc. Billy Murray
2875 What Have I to Give? Tenor, orch.
acc. Emory B. Randolph
2876 Spanish Rhapsody
Alessios Mandolin Quartet
2878 I Wonder if You Miss Me Sometimes
Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
2879 I Love You, That’s One Thing I Know
Tenor, orch. acc. Manuel Roinain
2880 Here Comes Tootsi —Around the Map
Soprano, orch. acc.
Gladys Rice and Male Chorus
2882 Serenade. Violin, violoncello, flute and
harp.
Venetian Instrumental Quartet
2884 Stop! Look! Listen! Fox Trot. For
dancing. Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
2885 Songs of Other Days—No. 1. Orch.
acc. Metropolitan Mixed Chorus
2887 Song of the Soul. Soprano, orch. acc.
Marie Kaiser
2888 Songs We Used to Sing in Dixie Land
Contralto, orch. acc.
Merle Alcock and Male Chorus
2890 Baby (Swing High, Swing Low)
Contralto, orch. acc. Helen Clark
2891 Blow, BloWj Thou Winter Wind
Basso, orch acc. T. Foster Why
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
TRADE MARK
fs
Great
Chances for
Sportsmen $ Farmers!
FURTHER
REDUCTIONS.
6 ONLY D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, choke bore, walnut stock, pistol grip,
fitted with W. IV. Greener patent wedge-last crossbolt.
Usual Price, £5/15/-. SALE PRICE, £3/15/-
4 ONLY CHAMPION HAMMERLESS D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, walnut stock,
pistol grip, steel barrel. Usual Price, £lO. SALE PRICE, £6/6/-
6 ONLY 5.8.8. L. DUCK GUNS, long distance, top action, kill at over 100
yards. Usual Price, £5. SALE PRICE, £3/10/-
FARMERS’ D.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 50/-. SALE PRICE, 27/6.
FARMERS’ S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 20/-
Colt’s Lightning REPEATING RIFLES, to hold 12 shots.
, Usual Price, £6/6/-. SALE PRICE, £3/5/-
S.B. RABBIT RIFLES’, kill at 100 yards. Usual Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12/6.
Repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen.
Send for our Illustrated -Catalogue—Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARM.V CO.. 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
MRS. H. GOUGH, PROPRIETRESS OF TWO WELL-KNOWN STORES
IN GRANVILLE, N.S.W., WRITES A LETTER TO
CLEMENTS TONIC
MRS. GOUGH S well-known Tobacconist, Hairdressing and Music Stores are situated at
The Colonnade and South Street, Granville. She writes her opinion of this sterling medicine,
and her letter will be read with interest bv residents of Granville and Parramatta-, where she is
well known in trading centres.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
"I have a warm and friendly feeling for Clements Tonic, because it has
proved a great benefactor to me.
“It was in the early part of 1914 that I received a great shock, which com-
pletely wrecked my nervous system.
“It was some months before I was able to attend to my business, and I passed
through a very trying time. Clements Tonic was recommended to me, and I soon
discovered it was worthy of all the praise I could give it.
"Quite a number of business people can vouch for the correctness of my
statement. “(Signed) Mrs. ELIZABETH GOUGH.”
NEURALGIA and how it was banished by this Nerve Medicine.
Here is a letter from MRS. M. McGREGOR, Onslow Street, Granville, N.S.W. Those
who suffer from that awful pain, Neuralgia, should read it.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“It was two years ago, while I was assistant to Grace Bros., that I was
tortured with neuralgia for five months to such an extent that many a night I
could get very little sleep through the pain.
“Many so-called cures were tried without getting the slightest relief, until my
mother, who is a great believer in Clements Tonic, insisted upon my taking that
medicine, which at once gave me great relief,, and I was eventually permanently
cured. You may use this as you wish.
“(Signed) Mrs. M. McGREGOR.”
The Third in the Family to Take Clements Tonic with Good Results.
MISS C. BRAND, Valentine Street, Toowong, Brisbane, writes of this medicine,
June 16, 1916: —
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“1 feel a deep sense of gratitude, for I am the third in our family to take
your medicine.
“In my own particular ailment it has “done me good, headaches and weakness
through poorness of blood.
“It was six months ago that I collapsed through weakness. I have taken
six bottles of your tonic and my health could not be better than it is at the
present time. “(Signed) Miss C. BRAND.”
KEEP IT IN YOUR HOUSE & IT WILL KEEP YOU IN GOOD HEALTH.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
Clements Tonic Ltd.,.Rozelle.


Riding Emperors.
Our Celebrated “IRONBARK
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, fitted with the “A & S” special
ankle protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbark Brand” on loops.
Price - - 14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/C per pair.
Allan # Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
df
Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Free
Trial • Besc British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears,
iBiS.A, Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
[Saddles, etc.
fLATEST
MODELS
£3mIO to £Q
[ Tyres and accessories at half usual price*.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, fo»
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
GV3IAI
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
CELEBRATED
0
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's. Adelaide.
T. L Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post vou a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences."
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but citer taking your treatment for H days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now."
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Used the
World Over
□
MOTOR
...CARS
I
A Cooling Lotior to prevent
Scorching and Burning of the
Sun for Bathers. Motorists.
Tourists, etc.
ALL chemists
1/6 BOTTLE
OB POST FREE
<oiloiornm
»7» HARRIS
SYDNEY
WOSQHITOBAHE
ft few drops applied to (be
Bands and Face keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONNINGTON ft CO.. LTD.
. 179 Harris Street. SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes —and must have —the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food —a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
MelliiftßHMl
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an . artificial food.
Set out to feed
baby right. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s
Feeding Bottle
has most advan-
tages. A trial
convinces you.
jffurfyttlleZz/Ti.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with useful Handbook for Mothers, "The
Care of Infants in Australia,” will be sent post Free. Write to-day Jo
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it. •
<2
r
>
in
iint
Nerve
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
| HE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
' head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better —and rise refreshed ; you eat better —and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give ;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keeps you fit —good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
s
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
AI_L BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists,, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
IVI essrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
feole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Morning.
Chirping birds their music trill,
Happy in the freshened earth,
Songs of careless life that fill
All the world ; oh, life has still
Ecstasies of love and mirth!
Heralding the coming morn,
Harmony again is born.
There was tempest in my mind ;
By strong gusts of passion curled,
Phantom shapes bestrode the wind.
Thoughts loomed strangely in the blind,
Dim-lit darkness of a world,
Where the nightmare demons thrust
Arrows poisoned with distrust.
Through its gloom my spirit tossed,
Torn by evil thoughts and doubt,
Grief for things I fancied lost
Ahger for ambitions crossed —
Dreadful shadows round about!
But upon its strong, sweet wings
Gentle calm the morning brings.
Somehow, lingers in this breeze
From the tears of nature born,
Fragrance of old memories.
Far away across the sens
Lo, the silver shafts of morn
Brightly break the clouds apart!
There is morning in my heart.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Sea Fruit.
To think that slimy thing they dragged was
she!
The fools they were,
Hiding what its face was, with its hair,
Lest I should see!
And how they bit their lips when, curiously,
For all their protests, not to be denied,
I pulled the towzled mess of hair aside
And saw the sea-slugs’ havoc. As for me,
Who knew so well her loveliness, I found
No other thing to do hut laugh aloud,
Marvelling at this madness of the crowd.
“It may be, as you say, that she is
drowned, -*
But not like this my Love will come to me!”
I said and walked in silence from the quay!
How long ago that was I cannot guess;
If days or years
I know not, counting time but by its tears
And loneliness.
I know she woulu have come by now, unless
(Ah, that one fear, it ever will recur!)
Unless the Sea Kings, pleased so well with
her,
And heeding not the signs of her distress,
Hold her their captive underneath the sea,
And as a queen, have set her on a throne
To drab their kingdom’s beauty by her own,
Nor heed her pleadings that she come to
me.
And so I wait her, all the day and night,
Nor ask of God one easing of my plight.
For she will come. It may be late or soon,
But come she will.
Perhaps some night, when all the winds
are still,
Beneath the moon
I'll spy the silver splashing of her shoon,
As, fleeing down the waters in her fear,
She hears the Sea Kings chasing in her
rear.
Then will I rush to her and claim the boon
That niggard Joy withholds from us so
long.
And she and I will Love’s delighting prove,
While all the stars, compliant to our love,
Sing from the skies our hymeneal song.
To think that it was she, the fools they were,
Hiding what once its face was, with its hair!
MAORII.AND.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
Just to Drift.
Drifting down the Harbor,
Stars on high,
Lovers of the surface,
You and I,
Let us never pry and wonder
At the things that lie thereunder.
Underneath the surface
Silver-fair,
Let us never question
What lies there ; .
Lest we lose, like some robbed miser,
All our treasure, growing wiser.
Lo, it has the beauty
Of a flower!
Is it not sufficient
For the hour
Just to drift as mists are drifted,
Depths unplumbed and veils unlifted?
Where’s the flawless jewel,
Stainless breast?
Where’s the Love that answers
Every test?
Where’s the past that’s altogether
Cloudless as this radiant weather?
Drifting down the Harbor
On the tide,
Careless of all knowledge,
Let us glide,
Heedless of what Life discovers,
Save that you and I are lovers.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Thou Shalt Not.
Woman, pausing on the marble stair,
Come down one....come down two.
Death is creaking through the doors of air,
And a red, red knife for you.
Woman, lying on the gleaming floor
Warm the blade. .. .cold your skin.
Love’s a madman when he loves no more,
And a heart is hot with sin.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


the
Keep
Home
Tyr
e 3
Tui
rung
m
<*)
mm
?4
m
FIT
PERDRIAU HEAVY
The Three Broad Ribs meet the road with an absence of rubbing
motion, and by reducing friction keep down the tyre bills.
Few imported tyres are showing as good mileages as
Australian-made Perdriaus. Not one is showing better.
re
r
1
ft
9
a
THREE-RIB TYRES
Perdriaus are recording such splendid mileages under hard-driving,
conditions all over Australia that there is really no unfair demand
made in asking Australian motorists to fit them and “Keep the
Home Tyres Turning.”
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH, NEWCASTLE.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENVER
©
PRICES
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS,which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
e
h
RICHARD IH
“A horse! My kingdom for a horse,”
cried the stranded motorist who thought
that any old spirit was good enough. Like
his royal predecessor he needed motive
power that would serve him at the most
urgent moment. He needed, more than
anything, the ever-reliable
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting—Sweet Running—More Miles
The care with which “Plume” Spirit is
distilled results in producing power and
-speed. It vaporises quickly, and having a
maximum of heat units is quick in action
and of great energy even on the coldest
night. “Plume” is famous for easy starting,
besides giving more mileage and ensuring
a clean cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
Have you seen the Manufacturer’s Recom-
mendation Chart, telling you the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloil with which to
lubricate your car? If not, write us and it
will be mailed free. “A grade for each
type of Motor.” For sale at all dealers and
garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
3
\ Aj «j> ,
\°3/LO vV V^
eryhr
jgjM?!
Under-Sized Tyres on your
Car act like Under-Sized
Shoes on your feet!
HEN your Car-Manufacturer speci-
fies ‘‘Bls x 105 m/m” Tyres for
your Car, he does not mean that
815 x 96, 97, 98, 99 or 101 m/m will do
just as well.
When he specifies that the Air-Capa-
city in “815 x 105 m/m” of Tyres is neces-
sary to carry the weight of the Car and
its Occupants satisfactorily, he does not
mean 815 x 96 3-5 m/m.
When he says the Tyres should be
“880x120 m/m” he does not expect that
880 x 109 3-5 m/m will do justice to the
Car, or give its Owner the maximum
return for his investment in Comfort or
duration of Service.
YET these are instances of the short
measurements you actually yet
when you buy any millimeter Tyres
made in Europe (not Goodrich Tyres).
The Car Maker specifies the MINI-
MUM size of Tyre which will properly
carry the Load of Car and Occupants,
because he must supply the first set of
Tyres.
If, then, that first set proves Under-
Sized, for the Car, blame it largely on the
fact that no millimeter Tyres are FULL-
SIZED (except Goodrich Tyres).
* * * *
PUT on your Car the actual SIZE of
Tyres which its Maker specifies—
viz., Tyres that measure (in cross-
GOODRICH
section, ns well as diameter) tlie actual
millimeters which the Tyre Size calls for,
and you will find a very different PER-
FOItMANCE resulting.
You will find longer life of the Car —
less Vibration —more Luxury of-Motion
—more Mileaye per Tyre, in the same
identical Car.
* * *
IT has long been the Trade-Custom to
build millimeter Sizes much under
the millimeters specified in dimen-
sions.
And, Custom is mighty, in many
Lands.
Even the makers of Goodrich Tyres
feared at first to break away from this
Trade-Custom of Under-Sizing.
But finally, with faith in the triumph
of Right —all Goodrich rubber-tread
Tyres are now r made FULL-SIZE —
made up to the actual millimeters of
Cross-Section Diameter which their Size
specification calls for.
} ’ : * sis
WILL you, as a Tyre User, — appre-
ciate this?
Will you choose Goodrich
FULL-SIZED Tyres, when they cost
you no more than same quality in Under-
Sized Tyres of other makes?
Will you thus foster the Consumers’
and Car Builders’ interest, or—compla-
cently pay for SHORT-MEASURE in-
stead ?
FULL-
SIZED
DUVAL & CO.
13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
145 Collins Street, Melbourne
300 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TYRES


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yoj,. 3 -Xo. 11)36.
THURSDAY. MARCH 22, 1917.
Price 6d.
ANOTHER WAR-GOD BEATS THE GONG.
Washington, Wednesday Evening.—China has broken off diplomatic relations with Germany. The Government seized six German steamers which were
in port at Shanghai, and placed armed guards aboard them.— Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia lor the White Man.’’
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 fa’s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ffil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Home ' News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brener and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— ll’. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo. .
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
Idoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; 8102. to 10oz., SJd. ;
JCoz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, ios., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
'TTuT^'aHeZz/n.
THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 1917.
A STATE LABOR PARTY IN THE
DOCK.
What in N. S. Wales is called “the State
ejection campaign” is timed to collapse on
Saturday. The casualties will be removed
to the morgue on Sunday. On Monday there
will be many funerals, with loud, bombastic
remarks in the newspapers, and cheers,
whoops, groans and moans over' the quick
and the dead —and then the weary old
wrangle will start at a fresh place while the
public sits back to hope for the best and
wait for the worst. There may possibly be
a few benighted citizens who during the last
week or so have imagined that the Voice of
Ihe People was going to decide great issues
of public policy, and that on the terms of a
meashred popular judgment the new Parlia-
ment would proceed to execute the mandates
of the electors. If there are any such indi-
viduals it is safe to say that they will be less
numerous next time. As at other elections
the people have counted like so many jum-
-1 nicks. A few persons selected by obscure
committees have been produced, hot-air liber-
ated in large volume, and the electors stam-
peded after this man or that with wild yells
of Party. The citizen who wanted to vote
for Labor lias in many cases had before him
the alternative of either not voting at all or
casting his scrap of paper for someone whom
he regards as a wooden-headed incompetent.
The man who has believed it to be his duty
to go with the other crowd has just as often
no choice between voluntary disfranchise-
ment and voting for a spineless dullard. In
the mass the problem has been whether the
elector would swallow something whole, Lib.
or Lab., and in both cases the dose has been
the same —the party joss, horns, tail, hoofs
and all.
Three years ago this paper urged its read-
ers to seize and introduce the axe to the
reckless crowd which had been making hash
of the Labor policy, and turning the Labor
platform into an object of derision. Labor
was mightily indignant at this. To-day there
is no thoughtful Labor man who does not
know that if the advice had been. followed
the movement would have been in better
health than it is now. The intervening years
have been a rush down-hill, culminating in
a smash which left Labor almost unidentifi-
able. The Bulletin, which has always
warned Labor against the demoralising
theory that mere victory at the polls after a
disordered scrap in the electorates repre-
sents the goal of Labor policy, repeats the
advice of three years ago. Any trickster
may win an election. It is allegiance to
principles alone that counts. Labor in N. S.
Wales won to office on the policy it placed
before the electors, genuinely believing in the
honesty of its promises to make that policy
good in the fields of legislation and adminis-
tration. That it failed —and failed worse
and worse as time w r ent on —is but to mildly
express what happened. Once in office the
retention of place became a passion. To
this end it bartered away every vestige of
principle it possessed, and at the last, after
a record of muddle and debauchery without
any parallel in the history of Australia, pre-
sented the public with the degrading spec-
tacle of Labor politicians being jobbed into
public offices and shamelessly fighting over
the plunder which politics in unworthy hands
may be made to yield.
* * * *
It makes a sorry story, and The Bul-
letin is more convinced than ever that until
the Labor movement in the State purges
itself of the weaknesses and cupidity and
downright flat dishonesty that made the
betrayal of a great trust possible, the move-
ment has everything to gain by being pre-
vented from degrading itself still further.
As a critical and suggestive force there is
room for a sane Labor Party to exercise a
salutary influence on the politics of N. S.
Wales. For men ready to pawn the country
and spend' the proceeds in bribing workmen
with easy, handy jobs, many of them of no
public value, there should be no room.
Democratic government is not another word
for fraud. Yet,. though Labor govern-
ment has drifted into a policy of fraud,
the P.L.L. is impenitent. It still stands
for government by dope. It will do nobody
any good to look away from the truth.
The Labor movement is in a bad condition
in this State mentally and morally;
and until it can again get a grip on those
finer conceptions of duty and citizenship
that it relinquished to foregather with the.
swine, the proper place for it is where it
has a chance of redemption.
* * * *
The alternative to Labor is Holman; and
this paper has many times expressed its
opinion of Holman quite frankly. But out
of all the -welter of confusion and chican-
ery there emerge considerations for to-
morrow that are not covered by squabbling
about yesterday. The State has to take
things as they are instead of as they might
be, just as the man' with but a single pair
of boots must wear them even if they be
shoddy instead of leather. And considera-
tions for to-morrow have in the main far
more connection with Administration than
with Legislation. The immediate interests
of the State turn upon whether the public
shall witness a repetition of the adminis-
trative follies of recent years or something
with more reasonable claims to decency.
The P.L.L. in its present corrupted and de-
generate state is hopeless. Holman is at
least free from that .influence. Moreover,
the people with him know their job better.
They have more brains. If not more honest,
they can see further. Holman, having worn
the shoe, knows where it pinches. He knows
that he is not getting value for the borrowed
money; whereas John Storey is holding
out promises with a disregard for settling
day as casual as that of Holman in his
hours of greatest madness. Apart from this
vital consideration that administratively
Holman’s new party appears at least more
reliable than the party of Borrow and be
Damned, the Labor party as it stands in
this State is cursed by an inclination to
transfer the final word in government from
Parliament and people to a coterie of party
■wirepullers. This is so flagrant an attack on
the principles of democratic government that
if deserves the most vigorous assault. The
plan is adopted not from any desire to see
democratic progress, wise legislation and de-
cent administration,-but because it appeals to
the P.L.L. as a method by which Parliament
may be dragooned and the electors throttled
—because official Labor wants above all
other things to get hold of the machinery
of government and use it to bend the public
to the party joss. This is not what Labor
came into politics for. It represents, in-
deed, a negation of everything that Labor
stood for. This paper therefore recom-
mends N. S. Wales to give the Labor party
on Saturday a further chance to get sober.
That is the best service any true friend of
the movement can render to his democratic
ideals.
PICKING UP AN ESCORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tiie broad expanse of ocean was relieved by
a group of sombre-painted vessels w 7 hose
rusty sides gleamed as they heeled over to
the long, eternal Atfantic roll. Day after
day, night after night, they had ploughed
along in line across the wastes, bearing to
the Motherland’s aid the sons of the outposts
of the Empire.
They have now 7 reached their final rendez-
vous. A semaphore message waves from the
escorting cruiser, and, in response, the leader
of the convoy “clowns ‘Answer’,” draws out
of the line and reduces speed. A boat
plunges across the heaving swell and ranges
alongside. Hundreds of sun-tanned troops
list the ship as they crowd along the rails,
A canvas bag is deftly drawn on board from
the boat —messages from the sea to wives
and mothers and sweethearts waiting re-
signedly athome.
The cruiser has come to the end of her
beat. Signal follows signal in quick succes-
sion—wishes of “Good luck” and “God
speed,” and, finally, a string of bunting
creeps up to the signal-yard. The troop-
ships alter course together and their heads
are pointing at last to the little Homeland.
With “A pleasant voyage” streaming out on
the wind the cruiser slowly swings round on
lief helm. A rousing, thrilling cheer speeds
out from ship to ship as she passes along—
pent-up expressions of thanks for her cease-
less protection. She dips her ensign in
acknowledgment, and, rapidly gathering way,
is lost astern in a cloud of smoke.
“Strange business that we should be left
to our own devices at this juncture,” ob-
served the Colonel, reasonably.
“Look here, sir,” the captain replied, “the
Admiralty knows what it’s about —don’t you
worry!”
So the ships proceeded independently dur-
ing the day. The Ariel, having the best
speed, gradually drew ahead, while the
Miranda and Ophelia jogged along more or
less in company. The trail of the Ariel’s
smoke besmirching the eastern horizon was
all that was visible when night closed down
upon the grey undulating ocean.
All lights being screened, the ships soon
became merged in the darkness.
Below, in the dormitories, the troops
snored as usual. The armed guard strutted
to and fro, stopping now and then to peer
into the darkness. But only the phosphores-
cent trail of a porpoise making for the ship
caused occasional momentary concern.
A muffled eight bells marked midnight.
Nothing had intruded upon the gloomy blur
of the horizon.
Soon after the middle watch had settled
itself down to its job, the captain—prone on
the chart-house settee, lightly dozing with
one eye on the clock—was brought to his
feet by the thrust of a Marconigram between
the door curtain. “Naval message, sir,”
said the operator. “A good way off yet,
though, sir.”
The captain eagerly turned over the pages
and soon decoded the grouped letters: “State
your position, course and speed.” The chart
lay spread open before him. After a careful
laying on of parallel rulers and a pricking-
off with dividers, the result, dotted on a chit,
was promptly converted into an apparently
unintelligible jargon. In a few moments a
crackling could be heard overhead, and the
secret reply had flashed into space.
The captain, having cautioned the officer
of the watch that the speaking-tube whistle
would find him immediately, went below to
his cabin. There he had his cocoa and
toast; then lighting a pipe, he “stretched off
the land” again, feeling at comparative
peace with the world. The troops below
still snored. A few hours passed. At 4 a.m..
as though by instinct, the captain roused
himself, mopped his face with a spongeful of
icy water, and struggled into his unifoi’m
overcoat. Simultaneously the wireless oper-
ator emerged from his kennel of a room and
dashed along to the captain’s cabin. “Must
be up against us now, sir,” he said breath-
lessly, as he handed the captain a message.
“Nearly knocked the top of my head off,
sir,” he added with a smile. “Sparks” was
game ; he’d been “listening in” then for 16
hours without a break.
The captain skipped up the bridge ladder
to the chart-house, and again fingered the
pages of his code. The few letters now
meant: “Burn navigation lights.” He hurled
the book into its recess, pressed down the
electric knobs on the switchboard near the
door, and rushed out into the blackness of
the bridge. He was greeted instantly by a
shout from the officer of the watch: “There
you are, sir, lights abeam —just switched
on, sir !” The glare of the chart-house light
had momentarily affected the captain’s
vision; nevertheless he soon made out the
masthead and port lights of three vessels in
line.
“Must be the destroyers,” said the cap-
tain, peering through his binoculars. “Ha.
ha,” he chortled as the small craft swerved
round and showed their green lights, “Worth
while pottering about all night for this, eh?
Position’s about dead-on, too. Good old
Navy !”
A peremptory Morse signal ordered all
lights out, and in a minute or two three
low-lying black streaks were swishing eerily
alongside in the darkness.
“Are you Miranda?” the lamp flashed
again.
The fact that the ship addressed teas the
Miranda caused one to refleet upon the con-
summate skill of these sea-patrols.
“Where is the Ariel?” was the next query.
“About 30 miles ahead —last seen slightly
on starboard bow,” was signalled from the
Miranda’s bridge. The escorting vessels
thereupon had a rapid interchange on flash-
ing lamps, and, without more ado, the lead-
ing destroyer darted ahead and vanished.
“I reckon I can enjoy a pipe now,” remarked
the captain as lie descended the bridge
ladder.
At the first streak of dawn the alert de-
stroyers commenced their day’s work of
sweeping the Way ahead of their charges;
backwards and forwards, to and fro, they
went incessantly, darting finely across the
bows. Instructions from the shore Military
Commandant to the O.C. Reinforcements
were unconcernedly shot across by sema-
phore as the little ship skimmed and churned
about on its lively manoeuvres.
Gradually the convoy approached the ship-
ping tracks, and vessels of all descriptions—
mail liners, transports, cargo tramps and
colliers —pursued their various ways, zig-
zagging incongruously.
Suddenly, a few miles away on the star-
board bow, there appeared two low-lying
grey objects with squat, tower-shaped humps
protruding from their middles. In a few
seconds a terrific explosion flung skywards
a great cloud of spray and debris from a big
homeward-bound cargo steamer’s foredeck.
Like an arrow released from the bow-string
the Miranda’s destroyer flew off, and was lost
in oily black smoke, foam and lashed up
spray. The Miranda turned and zigzagged
over the ocean.
The troops, teeming with excitement,
crowded along the rails and cheered wildly
as the destroyer’s bow- and stern-guns spat
out flashes. The firing ceased abruptly and
the destroyer dashed off to the damaged
steamer. A few 7 moments later she was back
again, unconcernedly criss-crossing the
Miranda’s bows.
By this time the animated soldiery had
swarmed for’a’d on to the fo’c’s’le.
“Call her up, sir.” said the captain to ihe
watch officer. “Ask the news.”
The signal was soon made. The destroyer’s
answering pennant came fluttering down,
and J(long-tack)M instantly flew up in its
place. The destroyer was swishing along
at 28 knots, and with each sharp swerve
round she leaned over and smothered herself
in sheets of wind-driven spray. A blue-
jacket, swaying like a human clinometer, was
poised on the top of the after gun-shield,
from which venturesome position he calmly
waved his red and yellow semaphore flags.
The destroyer’s reply, characteristically
terse, sent a thrill through a thousand men.
Just this: “Steamer’s crew saved. Bagged
the two submarines.”
* * * *
Three days later the usual cablegram
appeared in the Australian daily papers:—
“The Umteenth Reinforcement arrived at
its destination on its due date.”
CATHEAD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Choice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scene : — -An open place near the Forum.
A man standing on a srtone is stringing in
mid air. The stone is attached to a crane on
a high building by a long tvire rope. A
nurse passes, wheeling a go-cart which con-
tains the future Premier.
Enter two citizens. .
Ist Citizen : Observe the pleasant knave
that lightly swings
From the high pulley of the moving crane.
What recketh he of falls or pavement
bumps
Where high he soars, his lighted cigarette
Between his careless teeth?
2nd Citizen: Much doth he venture;
But that stout rope of wire that holdeth
him
Is hardly stronger than his iron nerve.
I would I had the heart to venture so.
Ist Citizen : Tush! ’Tis a small thing to
the desperate chances
Our politicians take. His life’s in peril;
But they, while votes are cast in ballot-
boxes,
Must stand in hourly peril of their screw.
2nd Citizen : How will you vote?
Ist Citizen : Why there, good friend, you
ask
The riddle I myself would somehow solve.
The gracious Holman with large words
and pleasant
Hums like a summer music in mine ears
Of that he will do if I but support him
And keep his crowd in office. Wonder fills
me
And stirs me almost to the brink of tears.
I marvel at the greatness of his purpose.
2nd Citizen : Ay, he speaks well, but will
he keep his promise?
Ist Citizen : Why now you ask too much.
Hath he not talked
These ten years past with excellent clear
tongue
And failed fulfilment of his smallest
word ?
2nd Citizen : The honorable Storey talk-
eth, too.
Ist Citizen : So do they all. The place is
full of talk.
They drown the shrill mosquito’s voice at
night
And hush the roaring of the trams by day.
2nd Citizen: Storey is new. The new
broom sweepeth clean.
Ist Citizen : It sweepeth clean so it hath
any head;
Yet none sweep chambers with the stick
alone.
2nd Citizen: The P.L.L. is mighty in the
land
And all its force is set against the w r ord.
The honeyed word, that Holman loves to
speak.
Ist Citizen : The P.L.L. is like a ship at
sea
O’erburdened with much cargo and a
crew
That overthrongs the deck, but with no
man
Who knows to read the compass or can
take
The sun at noon. Its sails of good inten-
tion
Are filled with gusty gales of cheap adven-
ture
That blow towards the shoals of Nothing
Done.
2nd Citizen; Will Holman’s talk do more?
Ist Citizen : I cannot tell.
It may do far too much, as heretofore,
And still do nothing.
2nd Citizen: See. Who comes here?
Ist Citizen : This is a prating fellow
Who lately battled ’neath the flag of
Wade
And now would snatch a crumb from
Holman’s plate
Or any other who hath bread to give.
2nd Citizen ; See, he hath joined another.
Stand aside.
They are in high debate as well beseems
The sturdy leaders of a people’s thought.
Let us be listeners if we may but know
The purport of their discourse.
Enter two National Party candidates,
lately members of the Great Liberal Party.
Ist Candidate : I backed him for a fiver.
Tompkins reckoned
The tip a good one.
2nd Candidate: Do you speak to-night?
Ist Candidate: Yes, I must keep them
moving. Win the war —
That is the talk. Change horses in the
strea m
And the high flood rolls o’er you. Liberty!
Freedom from P.L.L. and caucus chains!
2nd Candidate: The same old yarn with
minor variations.
I'm talking too. If only we might have
Another dozen millions now 7 to spend
These knaves would never v T in a doubtful
seat.
Ist Candidate: Don’t make too sure. Those
knaves can borrow too —-
And talk : and those behind can organise.
Besides, they scored at the last Referen-
dum ;
And don’t forget' it.
2nd Candidate : That was months ago.
The crowd is fickle. Its opinion changes.
Ist Candidate : The time is ripe— swing
of the pendulum—
The same old yarn told in the same old
way,
And nothing certain till the figures come.
We may fluke through; so comeanavea-
drink.
The candidates go out.


Dark Russia.
Someone at Washington has said that the
earthquake at Petrograd “represents the
greatest victory for democracy the world has
known.” But even to speak of democracy in
connection with Russia is to strain the mean-
ing of words. The revolutionary instinct has
always been strong among the people; but
between revolt against the gnout and the
pogrom and the exactions of nobles and the
Church on the one side and on he other a
comprehension of democracy, there is a vast
difference. The great mass of the Russian
people are no more concerned about democ-
racy than this paper is about O’Malley’s
hat. They are ignorant, frugal and patient,
concerned only with the elementary affairs
of life, ready to accept any form of govern-
ment as a divine dispensation, provided they
get food and shelter and are left alone. Far
different has been the spirit of those among
whom the democratic instinct has found
expression. These have been peqple tor-
mented by philosophies, struggling for the
assertion of theories of government and
human rights which Russian citizenship has
ha -P v yet scented. The constitutionalists in
have never looked beyond government
through a parliament: and in their present
mental development a democratic -parliament
is to them inconceivable. It is possible
that the revolution may be the birth of a
Russia with free institutions; but even that
must remain doubtful for a long time. Czars
have abdicated before, and it is not the first
time blood has flowed in the streets of
I’etrograd. What is probably true is that
the semi-representative Duma, stung by the
inefficiency of the autocracy, and alarmed at
the sinister power of enemy influences, saw
that the only hope for the country lay in
securing an authoritative part in the nation’s
affairs; wherefore, seizing hold of the revo-
lutionary movement, they gave it force and
direction. But there are very few points of
resemblance between this upheaval and the
revolutions through which France purged
herself of the old regime. And it must not
be forgotten, anyhow, that Bonaparte
succeeded Louis and the second Empire
arrived after the second Republic. Democ-
racies do not grow up in a night. What
the world sees in Russia is what it has seen
somewhere ever since the dawn of time —
I reedom, throttled and bound, writhing in
agony for deliverance. More than that one
cannot say surely; for it is idle to suppose
that any of the current yarns we are hearing
give us more than a rudiL.entary notion of
what has been happening behind the dark
curtain that has been drawn between Russia
and the rest of the world ever since the war
began. Is there the material in Russia to
stem the flood of anarchy now that it has
begun to overflow ? There was not in France.
Is one despotism fighting another? Ilow can
we know when we are permitted to hear
only the fag end of a distant echo?
The Law of “Military Necessity.”
In spite of the loud talk of the Prime
Minister a fortnight ago, Senator Millen,
Vice-President of the Executive, now an-
nounces that there is to be a political cen-
sorship “governed by the law of military
necessity.” The Prime Minister and hi's
colleagues are, of course, to be the judges of
what constitutes “military necessity.” In
the newspapers of the Commonwealth there
are ten thousand examples of the operation of
the law hitherto; for, of course, everything
that ever has been suppressed has been dealt
with avowedly under this law. Unfortunately
the newspapers are not permitted to tear the
mask from the thing and expose it by giving
instances. But fortunately the Prime Min-
ister has himself supplied the public with
one sample. When Mr. Hughes was strug-
gling to keep, the Labor party together, he
told the House the other day that lie forbade
any newspaper reference to the threatened
split. So the solidarity of the Labor party
was a “military necessity.” There are, of
course, equally good grounds for declaring
that the maintenance of the Fusion is a
“military necessity.” If, for instance, John
Forrest, becoming disgusted with the con-
duct of Defence affairs by the brilliant Mr.
Pearce, proceeded to resign, that fact might
be suppressed on the grounds of “military
necessity.” _ Even a suggestion that the
Prime Minister should replace Mr. Pearce
as head of the all-important Defence De-
partment might be vetoed by the very oblig-
ing law of “military necessity.” It is just
as well that the people, on the threshold of
a general election, should know what a
convenient thing “military necessity” is.
The Kaiser found it so in 1914. It was by
the law of “military necessity” that he just-
ified the over-running of Belgium. During
the coming campaign in Australia the people
here are to be subject to the same law.
Exactly why they should curse the German
Kaiser for applying it to Belgium and re-
ward any other IvMser for applying it to
themselves The Bulletin confesses it does
not know.
•»
The Policy of Winning the War by
Talking a Lot.
“Help the Ministry and win the war”
is the plea put forward on behalf of
the Hughes-Cook Fusion. And “they
would not come in and help us win
the war” is the principal charge brought
against the Federal Labor party. Now,
this would be all very well but for the
lamentable omission of Hughes to explain
how he is going to win the war. Until he
produces his war policy how are people to be
blamed if they regard with derision the “Win
the War” label that decorates the Fusion.
Mere talk about winning the war is the most
futile exercise imaginable. To say what the
policy is not only adds to the general con-
fusion. What the public wants to know is
what the policy is. Wherefore. the time is
more than ripe for Hughes to cut away
from all the rhodomontade he has bewildered
the community with and tell Australia in
plain, direct language what he is relying on
to win the war with, and exactly what it is
an elector who wants to give him the assist-
ance of a vote is voting for. Until Hughes
does so The Bulletin is going to contem-
plate this “Win the War” brand worn by
the Government with the same suspicion as
it views a mask and a set of false whiskers.
Canberra—the Great National Mess.
The publication of an interim report by
Wilfred Blacket. the Commissioner ap-
pointed to tell the Federal Government what
had been happening at Canberra, gives those
individuals who are accustomed to “resent”
charges of waste and muddle a fine chance to
make some more remarks on the same lines.
Canberra has been a carnival of ineptitude,
shirk, laziness and loot ever since it was
mentioned. From first to last the public in-
terest has had about as much chance of
getting a fair deal there as an unprotected
leg of mutton has in a hyena’s cage. The
place was chosen as the national capital site
after a disgraceful intrigue, and wire-pull
and smoke-o have prevailed there ever since.
The substance of Blacket’s finding bears
out every word said in this paper about the
scandals perpetrated at the place in the
name of administrative government. He finds
that there was an actual conspiracy among
officials to defeat the supposed policy of
Parliament, and a Minister (Archibald)
gave to this his sanction and patronage.
Blacket in his report says
The reasons why Mr. Griffin [the designer of the
city], between October 18, 1913, and November 15,
191,3, performed no substantial part of his duties
under his contract with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment are as stated in four of the five charges
advanced on his behalf—viz., that the necessary infor-
mation and assistance were withheld from him and
his powers were usurped by certain officers; that he
and his office were ignored, his rights and duties
under his contract denied, and false charges of
default made against him; that Mr. W. 0. Archi-
bald and members of the Departmental Board endea-
vored to set aside his design and to substitute the
Board’s own design; and that there was in the
Department a combination, including Mr. W. O.
Archibald and certain officers, hostile to Mr.
Griffin- and to his design for the capital city.
So Parliament decides to build a city, agrees
to a plan of operations, votes money for the
job—and the proceedings promptly fall into
a state of chaos, the public is fooled and
various individuals are paid for doing the
fooling! Everywhere the Australian citizen
may took he sees himself surrounded by evi-
dence that the direction of national'affairs
is in the hands of messers, and that whether
it be building a city or running a war or a
post office muddle reigns supreme. In this
particular case of Canberra it is true that
Archibald was torn from his place, snarling
about the unjust way he had been treated.
But his vast capacity for wasting money and
making a mess mattered so little that when
Hughes formed his Rump Administration
Archibald was given the place of Minister
for Trade and Customs —a job only second in
importance to that of Defence Minister! Is
the public never going to wake up and insist
upon at least decent administration? Or is
it simply going on approving of politicians
who plainly say that decent administration
doesn’t matter?
German Hopes in China.
China has broken off friendly relations with
Germany; and that is more important than
it may seem on the surface. Germany knows
that the international struggle witli arms is
to be followed by a no less desperate inter-
national struggle with trade; wherefore,
just as it organised for war during many
years of peace, and thus put the Allies at a
tremendous disadvantage, so it has filled all
the years of war organising for peace. It
has ererfted a “Board of Imperial Commis-
sioners for Transition Economics” ; and the
business of this group of experts is to do all
things necessary to seize trade immediately
peace is proclaimed. To that end large
quantities of manufactured goods have
been accumulated and vast quantities of
raw materials arranged for, principally
through America. With the object of
gaining an advantage in populous neu-
tral countries where commerce has hitherto
been little developed, Germans have been
established in agencies. China has been the
object of special attentioh. “There has been
no feature of the war,” Gerard Williams
wrote to The Bulletin from London the
other day, “more striking than the response
of the oversea Englishman to the call of the
Empire.” He called it magnificent. It pro-
bably was. But the watchful German
promptly jumped at the chance it offered. In
China the Imperial Maritime Customs
Department was manned chiefly by young
Englishmen. They rushed to England on
the call to arms —and their places have been
taken mostly by Germans. That is only
one instance of the German’s after-war
strategy. Britain’s trustful complacence
before the war has made things easier. It was
alleged some time ago that as late as 1013
30 “British” consuls in China were Ger-
mans. All these and many more things
point to the fact that Germany had made
deep plans for the exploitation of the vast
trade possibilities of China. Now, with the
rupture, the preparations will be at least
more difficult. But, though that may be a
good thing for Britain, it by no means fol-
lows that it will necessarily be a good thing
for Australia. If other avenues of trade are
not as open as the German had expected, the
chances are he will make the fight for his
old avenues more willing ; wherefore it is all
the more necessary that we should lose no
time in blocking him with the - only thing
that will do it—a sky-scraping tariff.
«
Party Funds and Public Dishonors.
The London Morning Post puts it this
way:— ■
If we are to have a better country and a better
Government after the war there must be all end
made of two things—the secret party funds and the
sale of public honors. They are both detestable to
honest men; they are both a danger to the State.
The one is used to corrupt men ; the other to corrupt
a party. They insult the King; they degrade
honor; they betray the nation.
Which, coming from a Tory paper, is evi-
dence that J. Bull is waking up. It is
good doctrine for him and as good for Aus-
tralia. We have gone even farther, though.
In this part of the world public funds too
often do the detestable work of corrupting
both men and parties; and there won’t be
much hope of better things till the Labor
Federation and the Liberal League at a
joint conference pass a resolution something
like this: —
Until the use of the national revenues and public
credit for the purpose of catching'votes and creating
jobs for party heelers is stopped Australia will not
have democratic government. The practice now
followed of debauching the electors with loan
money is abominable in the eyes of every decent
Australian and a hideous danger to the nation. It
degrades our political ideals and standards of public
and private life, makes mockery of the Decent Thing
and turns the Fair Deal into an obsolete phrase.
Then if the Argus weighed in with some
appropriate observations about “honors con-
ferred on Australians” being slops from an
unclean bucket, and the 8. M. Herald pub-
lished a full statement of the source of the
funds of political parties in Australia, apart
from the public cashbox, the dawn of a new
day would be at hand.
♦
The first officially acknowledged and organ-
ised “go-slow” strike has been under the
consideration of the N. S. Wales Arbitration
Court. It concerned the lumpers employed
in discharging coal from vessels for the big
Sydney Gas Co. The award under which
the men work required a gang of five to
unload 10 tons of coal per hour; but with
the machinery at their disposal 25 tons can
be discharged. The employees were encour-
aged to work up to this rate by being paid
for the extra quantity as if they had toiled
extra time; if they unloaded 200 tons in
eight hours, • they were paid for eight hours
ordinary and 12 hours overtime, which ran
out at £2 12s. per day. Being unselfish men,
however, they demanded that a sixth hand
should be added to the gang, and that he,
also, should get £2 12s. The Gas Co.
objected, and there was a strike until, the
Industrial Court having made some remarks,
the secretary of the Lumpers induced, the
men to get back to work. But that didn t
settle the trouble. The men had not won
their point, and, to show their dissatisfac-
tion, they have been unloading only 10 tons
per hour. This means that they have to
work 20 hours for the pay they could earn
in eight, but it upholds the disunion princi-
ple of hitting the boss, and, incidentally,
threatens the public with a gas famine,
because the vessels which used to be emptied
in a day are now held up for several days,
and at that rate there is not sufficient ton-
nage to keep supplies up to requirements.
The seriousness of the position having been
represented to the Minister for Labor, he
went to the Industrial Court for power to
appeal against the award so as to compel the
gangs to discharge 20 tons per hour; and he
obtained it. But any award of the Arbitra-
tion Court having such an object looks
pretty hopeless. It isn’t a Judge that these
men need ; it is an educator. Instead of
guiding them, their so-called leaders have
been merely telling them the things they
liked to hear, with the result that they have
been filled up with the rottenest economics
that ever misled men and threatened the
future of a nation.
—«.
The Russian upheaval has been followed, by
the same old struggle to show that it is just
the thing the Allies wanted. The truth is
that nobody knows what the Bear .will do
when he has finished dealing with the
bureaucrats who have oppressed him. In
that connection it is significant that on the
day after the news reached Australia —which
was a week after the trouble began—-the
cables mentioned that “Von Hindenb.UßG is
concentrating tremendous resources in the
West” ; and that did not look as though the
Germans, with their intimate knowledge of
wlmt was happening in Russia, were expect-
ing anything more serious in the East.
Russia may presently claw the enemy as he
was never clawed before; but for the pre-
sent, that being at least doubtful, the only
safe and reasonable tiling to do is to assume
that a great additional responsibility is
thrown on the other Allies —which, so lar-
as we are concerned, simply means on Aus-
tralia.
♦
Arthur Renard, of Melbourne, who knows
as much about the relation of soil-contents
to production as anybody in Victoria, has
lifted up his voice to protest against the
export of maize. He is hammering away
at the principle that, while the Victorian
stock industry is in its present feeble con-
dition, it is foolishness to export substances
which should be used locally to conserve the
fertility of a soil naturally deficient in
phosphates, and to increase the beef and
pork supply. Renard doesn’t worry with
figures, wherefore it seems an opportune
moment to mention the fact that a cargo of
maize sent last year to Bristol (Eng.) was
valued at £60,273, and of this sum only
£18,826 was for the maize. The rest was
freight. The biggest return for maize as
an export would be received by sending it
abroad turned into meat. Freight is
freight, and it is better to pay a lot of
freight on a dear article than a lot of
freight on something a good deal cheaper.
In the case of maize-fed carcases, too, much
valuable plant-food has been returned to the
soil before the poleaxing of the beast. Still,
preaching crop-economies to the farmer is a
thankless job. Matters might be more hope-
ful if national authority showed itself
capable of giving a lead, for instance, in
regard to the exportation of flour instead of
wheat, retaining the valuable “offal” in
Australia.
■ ♦
The first secretary of the Boilermakers’
Union in Sydney was James McGowen,
subsequently one of the first Labor repre-
sentatives in the State Assembly, and later
Premier of the first Labor Ministry.
McGowen supported compulsory military
service and was declared “bogus” : and last
week the Boilermakers’ Union voted £25 from
its funds to help the expenses of the P.L.L.
man who is out to biff the old warrior from
his seat at Red fern—after 25 years.
McGowen may be this, that and the other
thing; but here he is being persecuted be-
cause he held a certain opinion on a ques-
tion of public policy submitted to a plebiscite
—and the funds of a union are used to
assist in giving him the boot! Apart alto-
gether from the morality of this, see how
it cuts across the preference-to-unionist doc-
trine. A man must join a union to get work.
Good. But the money he contributes to his
trade-union may be used to defeat a politi-
cal idea which he may believe right. That
means compulsory subscription for the sup-
port of policies which the subscriber objects
to. Does anyone outside a madhouse think
that preference to unionists can stand with
a disease like that eating its vitals?
-+
A picturesque yarn was floated by a Syd-’
uey paper the other day about the anxiety
of certain anonymous individuals to start in
business as exporters of horse-meat. It was
represented that there is money in the pro-
ject, that the necessary capital and stock can
be secured, that horse-flesh is always in de-
mand in-London and Paris; and, generally
speaking, that if ,T. Bull could get a steady
supply of refrigerated horse it would help
him to save and keep in good nick. One of
our main troubles just now is to deliver T.
Bull supplies of wheat, flour, mutton, beef,
cheese and butter, and this paper knows of
no reason why any of those commodities
should be shut out to permit of embalmed
nag getting in at the early doors. If there
were available shipping it might be a fair
thing for Private Enterprise to go into the
horse-meat business; but the project hap-
pens to be heard about at a moment when
millions a month are being spent in securing
a passage for more palatable grub. Especi-
ally in view of the supply of horse available
from the Front, where the wastage is stupen-
dous, the notion that the British citizen is
yearning for more in preference to chops
looks rather too wild an assumption to go
into business on.
Ist Citizen: Two finely patriotic gentle-
men !
The country’s safe while such high souls
survive!
2nd Citizen : Here comes a brace cast in
another mould.
What treason are they plotting?
Enter two LUMP, braves.
Ist 1.W.: Bill says to me we got to burn
the show.
2nd 1.W.: Well, let Bill do it. I ain’t fond
of gaol.
Ist 1.W.: “They got to know it,” says he,
“they got to feel
The boot. This fake election thing they
hold
Ain’t nothin’.” “Spare me days,” says I,
“A cove ’as got to work to earn ’is dinner.
No use to me,” says I. “Go slow,” says
he.
“Slow is too quick,” says I. “Put in -the
boot,”
Says he. There ain’t no other talk.
Put in the boot. We got to burn the
show.
2nd 1.W.: Well, let Bill do it. I ain’t
fond of gaol.
They go out.
Ist Citizen: A pleasant pair of ruffians, by
my troth !
Thank Heaven for cowardice! These fel-
lows urge
Each other to the brink of infamy,
Yet seldom pass it.
2nd Citizen : Here’s another pair.
Ist Citizen : With P.L.L. large written over
them.
2nd Citizen : Step once again aside and hear
them speak.
Enter two Labor candidates.
Ist L.C.: We needs must watch that bloke;
he knows too much,
I had to put my foot down hard and fast.
“If he gets the selection for the Senate,”
Says I to Smithson, “you can count me
out.”
I’d rather swallow Billy Holman whole
Than see that cove selected. What’s the
use
Of being in the n ivement if you don’t
Get some say in these things? I never
ratted.
I never pushed opinions of my own
When Conference had decided.
2nd L.C.: No, nor me!
Our business is to vote for Labor straight.
W e’ve got them on this old conscription
issue.
Ist L.C.: Ay, that’s the winning talk ; but
I can see
A lot of trouble once we take our seats.
Who’s going to be Minister for Mines?
That’s what I want to know.
2nd L.C.: Well, you should be
Right in the running. You’ve experience.
You used to be in Lithgow.
Ist L.C.: Have a drink
And talk the matter over.
2nd L.C.: Might as well.
They go out.
Ist Citizen : It is a cheerful morning. All
the State
Is stirred to deep commotion and the
issue
Of all the future trembles in the balance;
But not upon the votes of Smith and
Brown.
2nd Citizen: How now? What mean you?
’Tis your vote and mine
That must decide between the warring
parties.
Ist Citizen : The party war is but the
froth and bubble ■»
Upon a muddied, mean and shrunken
stream
That turns no wheels and quenches no
man’s thirst.
Holman or Storey? Toss a copper coin
And make the awful and momentous
choice.
2nd Citizen : Nay, but some purpose under-
lies this chatter.
Ist Citizen: I cannot find it. Work is'
here to do
Demanding all a people’s utmost strength;
And we but play the game of ins and oi ts
Or sit down fooled and fooling our own
selves.
2nd Citizen : What would you have? Of
evils choose the least.
Ist Citizen : To make a «hoice between the
knave and fool
Is harder than you reckon ; for the fool
Once placed in office always plays the
knave,
And long experience proves the knave a
fool.
2nd Citizen : How shall we do our duty by
the State?
Ist Citizen : Why there you have me. We
are tricked and shamed.
For either vote is treason to ourselves
And all the State cannot produce one
voice
Of honest purpose ringing loud and clear
Above the paltry clamor of these gnats.
There’s nothing in it. Comeanaveadrink !
Curtain.
P. O. M.


To Further the Farmers’ Interests.
That was the primary reason for founding'
T h jFarmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A us,ralia
By taking shares in this company the farmer secures the profits from his own and other co-operators’ business. In other words, though he pays the standard
premium's charged by all reputable insurance companies, by supporting his own -company he secures his
Insurance at Cost Price. s
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION.
The N S Wales Workmen’s Compensation Act operates as from July 1 this year. Every employer of labor is legally liable to pay compensation for injuries
sustained’by his employees. In case of fatal injury three years’ wages is the allowance (with a maximum of £5OO and minimum of £300) ; during the term of
disablement of an employee, half-wages allowance, total payment not to exceed £750.
Insurance against these risks in a reputable company is the only satisfactory protection, and THE BEST COMPANY FOR THE FARMER IS HIS
OWN COMPANY —THE FARMERS’ & SETTLERS’ CO-OPERATIVE INSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Limited
WRITE FOR FULL
PARTICULARS
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Branches in QUEENSLAND,
VICTORIA & S. AUSTRALIA.
A Warm Summer.
If during the battle of the Somme the Brit-
ish troops had blasted their way to I’eronne
and Bapaume, the result might well have
been that decisive victory which the Allies
are awaiting. For the German line from
the North Sea to Verdun would in
all likelihood have been seriously imperilled,
and the mending of the fracture would have
been a hard job. But that is not what did
happen. The thrust petered out in the mud
and the German had time to establish a new
line. To this he lias adjourned ; but where
the line is, whether it is as strong as the
last one and whether any substantial advan-
tages will have accrued to the Allies by the
change in Hindenbuhg’s address have at
the time of writing not been disclosed. That
the German was lately feeling uncomfortable
Is certain. That the battle of the Somme
represents a defeat for the enemy is clear.
What seems equally beyond dispute is that,
the battle has to commence elsewhere, and
that we can make up our minds that it will
be more furious and prolonged than the ter-
rible struggle waged last summer. Of the
other side we know practically nothing ; but
not much lias occurred since 1914 to justify
us in believing that the flattening out of a
salient on any front can be taken as evidence
of a crumbling defence. That the most criti-
cal stage of the war will soon be reached is
almost beyond dispute—critical in the sense
that the staying power of the armies engaged
will be tested as they have not been tested
before, the effect of the submarine cam-
paign determined, and the place of Russia
in the conflict settled. If Russia could
have been eliminated. Germany’s chances
of making some sort of a win would have
been far greater than with Ivan on the war-
path. Will tin 1 revolution weaken or
strengthen the Russian arms? There can
be no answer to this, for revolution may
mean anything. Still, the removal of a
German Czarina and the tearing of pro-
nounced pro-German sympathisers from the
administrative machine are good reasons for
expecting that all this will later on mean
greater trouble for the Kaiser on the eastern
frontier of his “beloved Prussia.” There-
abouts General Frost is still in command
and General Mud will carry on when the
thaw commences. Soon after these old war-
riors take a holiday the answer to the Rus-
sian mystery will be available- —and, probably,
the end of the war be within range of the
more powerful telescopes.
The last act of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment was to fix matters so that Australian
soldiers may vote in the Federal elections.
It was a proper thing to do, if only for
sentimental reasons. But whether Billjim
will know what or who he is voting for seems’
doubtful; for his voting paper is only
going to present him with choice between
“Governfnent” and “Opposition.” Can he
have any comprehension of the earthquake
that, during the last few months, has turned
upside down the political significance which
these words previously carried? This paper
'does not think so, and it is fairly certain
that Hughes and Co. have the same notion.
Anyhow, they resisted an amendment to
alter “Opposition” to “Labor” ; and if that
was not done in the hope of the soldier-voter
voting the wrong way, the reason for object-
ing to the change is hard to guess. The
Opposition is Labor, anyhow. Why give the
soldier a vote with one hand and surreptiti-
ously drop dust in his eye with the other?
A typical cry of anguish (and they have
become much more numerous again of late) :
I must, yell a protest or burst.
Can you tell us what has gone wrong with the
Postal Department? During the past 10 months I
have received nine letters, four Bulletins and two
small parcels. At least 10 times that number have,
I am told, been sent to me.
I was wounded nine weeks ago,, and notified the base
office in London of my transference to an English
hospital seven weeks ago. Since then I’ve been
waiting for something to turn up, but up to date all
that has arrived was a tin of cigarettes, much the
worse for wear, that had been roaming around for
the past seven months.
One letter —the last—was received 11 weeks ago.
It enclosed some documents for signat e and stated
that a letter explaining the matter had been posted
a fortnight previously. That letter has not arrived
yet.
Another Australian here has sent two cables, one
five weeks, the other two weeks ago ; he has had no
reply. We know it is not the fault of our friends.
These are not isolated cases; they are in accord-
ance with what has become the general rule.
One of our boys “went West” three months ago
without hearing a word from home all the time he
had been away. Poor beggar ! —he felt that more
than anything else.
+
“Jocic McWagga” asks for the home grown
article: —
I am tired of hearing the perpetual abuse of Aus-
tralia on account of the muddle made by a few
foreigners in Federal politics. Hughes misrepre-
sented Australian thought in England. But how
could it be otherwise? Hughes is first and foremost
a Welshman; after that a British schoolmaster. What
should he know of the thoughts of Australians?
Had he the artistic skill to enter into the very soul
of his surroundings and get with something of a
dramatist’s instinct the angle from which Austra-
lians looked at things it might be different; but in
that case he wouldn’t be in politics. Any number of
people from overseas become thoroughly Australian
and identify themselves with the thought and life
of the people, but they must serve a long apprentice-
ship in private life in order to do so; and even
then the kinks they brought from older lands occa-
sionally show up. Our Federal Ministers should be
native born. By so insisting we might occasionally
lose a good man capable of leadership, but we should
also lose the foreign adventurers to whom can be
traced almost the whole of our political trouble. The
millennium wouldn’t arrive at once, but the result
might be a great straightening out of crooked things
and a clarity of issues such as we haven't known for
a long time. It isn’t fair that decent Australians
should be branded with the sins of the stranger within
our gates. To import our political shoddy is as bad
as to import any other sort. The foreigners in poli-
tics don’t even pay duty; and they can go to the
poll without wearing the brand of their country of
origin.
The N. S. Wales election disturbance has
raged with unparalleled ferocity in the
Phillip division of Sydney. The retiring
member is Dick Meagher, Speaker of the
Assembly, for many years returned on the
Labor ticket —which constituted perhaps the
greatest political joke in all Australia. Now
lie and I’.L.L. President Doyle are bombing
one another from house to house. The once-
uqanimous electorate has been torn asunder
as by dynamite, and after wrangling at the
top of its voice all day throws itself into
the fray at night with tremendous bate.
Brothers fight broth rs, families have been
broken up. and Mick rends Mick. Ilichard
is having the worst trip he ever had in his
life, and though making the usual claims
about “confidence over the result” has horri-
ble dreams of going to the pack. Most of
the newspaper reporters have been tipping
him a sure loser.
We are saving up quite a lot of things
for the kid —including the repair of the ,
State schools lie gets his hit of education in.
Dr. Abraham Haynes, health-officer at Rich-
mond (Vic.), has just made some heated
remarks to the local municipal council about
the five dispensaries in that suburb. Of
the school at North Richmond, he reports
that “the playground in wet weather is a
swamp and should be asphalted.” The
other four are all “in a deplorable condition,
badly lit and ill-ventilated in summer, with
most of the class-rooms damp from broken
gutters and neglected roofs.” They have
not been painted for 20 years, it seems, and
“the walls of the Central and Burnley schools
have large cracks from the roof to the
ground, and are Unsafe.” But the lads have
this satisfaction : there is no report to the
effect that the residence of the superfluous
State Governor is leaking; and the last
time this writer inspected th premises the
playground attached to the local Parliament
House was quite well-drained.
Hughes, after looking longingly at Booth-
by (S.A.), and sending Watt over to smell
roiyid, decided that he had better not. The
trouble in S. Aus. is that the Liberals de-
cline to accept these late Labor men aw
Liberals. Peake, ex-Premier and Liberal
leader, remarked in a pointed way that
Labor men, however patriotic, are pledged
to certain Labor principles which Liberals
cannot swallow. Failing a fusion or a
Labor reconciliation the Liberals will pro-
bably get into office again in the State. The
figures are always pretty close in S. Aus.,
and having three parties must mean trouble
for the one party that used to combine two
of them.
Melbourne news item: “Mr. Hughes left
for Sydney on Saturday with Mr.. Cook.”
Resigned to his mate, so to speak.
Frank Anstey, outspoken as usual, told
the House of Reps, the other night, without
a contradictory murmur, that “Parliament
had been returned practically unanimously
to build up a higher tariff, but for the most
part members never had any intention of
doing so. They were false to the pledges
they had made to the public at the general
election.” But what if they were? The
par tv whips will crack and the people will
rush into two flocks; and it won't matter
two straws whether Smith has proved him-
self a traitor and a liar —he will get the
vote if he gets the party nomination. And
in nine cases out of 10 he gets the party
nomination not because be is honest, but be-
cause lie is subtle; not because be can run
straight but because be can dodge.
Martin Edward .Tull. Westralian Public
Service Commissioner, died at Perth last week
after a short sickness. He came .from Sussex.
England, and was 50. After serving articles
with a firm of surveyors in London, lie
arrived in the West in 1886, and was
appointed confidential clerk to J. A. Wright,
then Director of Public Works. In ’92 lie
became chief clerk and in ’95 Under-Sec. to
the Department.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pink Lady’
Palace “Very Good Eddie
Tivoli .* Mel ntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Smart Set
White City Various Shows
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Canary Cottage”
Royal “Fair and Warmer”
Princess’s Gonsalez Opera Co.
King’s “Turn to the Right”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium Fisk Jubilee Singers
“Corn-meal mush” is what the kiddies of
the John Grier Home in N’Yark are fed on.
It is the same mush that the audience at
Sydney Criterion is fed on ; for the unmen-
tioned" person who dramatised the novel,
“Daddy Long Legs,” produced for the first
time on Saturday, ekes out the thinnest story
ever told with large helpings ~of sentimental-
ism and “sob-stuff.” The circulation of the
novel has, however, proved that there is a
huge femiuine appetite for mush; so the
dramatist provides four courses of the fill-
ing food, garnished with thick slabs of
pathos and innocuous humor, and with three
long intervals between the courses. There
is no dramatic interest in the story ; every-
thing happens just as it is expected to hap-
pen ; the final curtain is foreseen half-way
through the first act. When a middle-aged
bachelor millionaire becomes the guardian of
a remarkable pretty orphan waif, what every
woinan knows is that she will end by marry-
ing him. She could easily have married him
by the end of the third act, but in order to
spin out the comedy ‘to a fourth act the
girl keeps silence when the millionaire pro-
poses. This simple theme is mixed with
much extraneous pathos and the humor of a
number of stereotyped stage characters.
Unadulterated mush would be too cloying.
The play would be impossible without
Kathlene MacDonell. This imported actress
proves herself possessed of a charming per-
sonality, a delightful sense of comedy,
and somewhat unexpected reserves of
emotional power. She dominates the
stage with her youth, charm and vitality,
and she has the instinct of dress. Charles
Waldron, without any special magnetism,
makes the most of the part of the pleasant
millionaire. Louis Kimball is well placed in
the part of an irresponsible youth, used as a
transparent puppet to arouse the million-
aire’s jealousy. J. Plumpton Wilson pre-
sents a delightful cameo of the dear old
butler of the stage: and Maggie Moore
is an equally pleasant interpreter of
the placid old dame who inhabits every
farm in American fiction or drama. Eily
“THE PINK LADY.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Mrs. Dondidier (Celia Ghiloni) discovers
her husband at the Satyrs’ Ball.
Malyon makes the manageress of the orphan
home the ogre that melodramatic tradition
insists upon ; while Emma Temple has to be
hut her agreeable self to provide the
foil required by all the canons of the stage.
Clarice Hardwick is the usual college
girl of the United States, and Olive Wilton
is her conventional mother. In the first
rather dragging act the kiddies of the orphan
home provide some conventional humor,
while in the second the goings-on in a. girl’s
study afford the only genuine comedy relief.
The rest is corn-meal mush, well served up
by Kathlene MacDonell. The run of the
play will depend upon whether the great
heart of the Australian female is suffused
with the same large oozy sentimentalism
as that of the feminine United States.
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, still shelters “The
Pink Lady,” who is now nearing theatrical
middle-age—the age when many ladies only
.begin to be real pink ’uns.
“Very Good Eddie” has now been honey-
mooning and mislaying tne luggage at Syd-
ney Palace for six w’eeks. He is going to
make it seven.
Sydney Tivoli lit up the bill with a few
more stars last w'eek-end. Leeds and Le
Mar, an eccentric pair,, and Clement May,
Dickens soecialist, are two of the new turns.
May’s imitation of Dickens as Clement May
is absolutely true to life. The Follies are to
march in and relieve this Bagdad on Satur-
day at the matinee.
Wirths’ Circus and Noah’s Ark will be at
home again at Sydney Hippodrome next
Saturdav night, and the steady beat of the
. big drum of advertisement is making the
responsive small boy thrill with delight.
The wonderful sinking ring is to be filled with
nice fresh mermaids and at least one
submarine will pursue them.
“FAIR AND WARMER,” AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Thomas A. Braidon
as Billy Bartlett.
Oliver Peacock as
Harrigan.
With the first of the Gumleaves overland-
iug into Sydney for the annual good time.
The Bulletin feels it alike a pleasure and
a duty to mention to the strangers that the
Garden Theatre is at the top of William-
street —you get off the bullock-dray there and
drop over the rise. Any decent bloke
will tell you where the Smart Set is show-
ing. N.B.—Needn’t bring accordions; they’re
thrown in with the icecreams.
To-night £4O in cash is being distributed
at the carnival grounds of the White City
(Sydney). No State Treasurers need apply:
this show is not a pawnshop. Dentine’s
“death ride" is what they are particularly
recommended to pay attention to.
* '* * * ' I
Sydney film features this week: —
Hoyt’s : “The Girl Who Doesn’t Know,’’ a sensible
sermon on the folly of the Great Hush.
Lyceum: Charlie Chaplin as a John Hop in “Easy
Street,” one of the best of Chaplin’s later efforts.
On Saturday the first of Dr. George Dorsey’s film
tours through “The Mystic Orient” will be screened.
Crystal Palace : Chaplin’s “Easy Street”; and
“A Hungry Heart,” the film of Sara Bernhardt s
“Frou Frou.”
Italian opera flow's on at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s. one night’s applause being only a
little less vociferous than another’s. “Caval-
leria” and “Pagliacci” were sung two'nights
last w'eek, and in these tabloid tragedies
Scamuzzi and Balboni repeated themselves
to perfection, or something very near it.
Scamuzzi’s picture of the tall, trim teamster
who disposes of young-man Lois behind the
scenes, is a masterly creation. He lights
his pipe and blows a cloud with the air of
a man w T ho is cocksure of his vengeance.
His stage business is as expressive as his
countenance and his baritone. In the other
opera he is twice blessed, for his rendering
of the familiar Prologue is a fine piece of
declamatory singing, and his subsequent per-
formance of the malignant clown comes a
good second to Balboni’s notable success in
the name-part. The plump, genial tenor
wins all the sympathy of the house for
Pagliacci by his unaffected way of getting
obsessed with jealousy, and his warble at the
close of Act 1 has some sweet notes of
pathos in it. All the men of the co. seem
to have held their own whilst the orchestra
and chorus were improving, whereas the art


ss
H E N K E S’
SCHNAPPS
Holland's best production—an absolutely ideal tonio,
Awarded many geld medals for purity.
drg
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
£9OOO PRIZES £9OOO
1150 HORSES
500 PIGS.
15 ACRES OF MACHINERY.
10,000 ENTRIES 10,000
1130 CATTLE. 300 SHEEP.
2500 BIRDS.
MAGNIFICENT AGRICULTURAL DISPLAY.
ROYAL SHOW OPEN FIVE NIGHTS.
Magnificent Programme. 40 Acres of Electric Light. All principal buildings open. Brilliant High
Jumping and Trotting. Chariot Races. Wild Australia, and many other attractions.
ADMISSION: 1/- EACH DAY; 1/- EACH NIGHT.
Grand Stands Extra.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney. H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
A Worthy Weather-coat
Serves two purposes—protects against rain and
cold. A good-looking, easy-fitting LONG-LASTING
Coat, cut in shapely style from British Gabardine.
It is chemically-proofed—no rubber. Raglan
shoulders, close-fitting military collar, buttons to
neck, vertical pockets. Light Check lining. Color:
Pawn-Grey.
A most serviceable and satisfactory coat for Winter
weather.
Price 70/- Ready to Wear.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height and chest measurements.
PEAPEB & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 (EL 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
r
<y£ml M
a
em—j m
of the clever lady principals doesn't suffice
to conceal their tiredness at times. This
Aveek they have added “Gioconda,” “Rigol-
etto” (in Avhich Filippini stars), - and
"Mignon” revivals. To-night (Thursday)
the learned Giovanni Gonsalez will conduct
“Lucia” once again from memory, and to-
morroAV they repeat “Faust.” And so on.
A lot more operas are to be crowded into
the remaining tAvo Aveeks of the season.
"Fair and Warmer,” transferred from Syd-
ney to Melbourne Royal, is a pretty poor
medium for the introduction of a neAv Eng-
lish comedy company. True enough, there
are many laughs in it—laughs that ring par-
ticularly loudly on a first night, Avhen the
Amphi. is croAvded with girls Avho have come
prepared to roar and shriek. But, for all that,
it is often tiresome. The story has a frankly
American fictitiousness. Tavo childless
young married couples dwell on differ-
ent flats in the same building, under
different domestic conditions. The bored
wife of Billy Bartlett proposes to elope with
a Don Juanic friend because he is bright and
wicked, whereas Billy has no pleasant vices
nor has ever dreamed of being jealous of
Juan’s attentions to Mrs. B. On the other
hand, the artless, brainless spouse of Jack
Wheeler remains intensely devoted to him
because he makes a point of taking one night
a Aveek off to play cards Avith the “boys.” His
only sinfulness consists in telling his dovey-
dovey that he goes to lodge meetings when
he sallies forth to the poker school. It
happens naturally enough that when Billy’s
AA’ife tells him what an insufferable son of
virtue he really is, the other lady learns of
her Jack’s mild deceitfulness, and, being left
for the evening in company with the disillu-
sioned wowser, she proposes that they shall
nurse their respective grievances until Mrs.
Bartlett returns from the opera with Don
Juan, and then get themselves discovered in
a compromising position. In a long-drawij-
out scene the pair of impossible
fly to mixed drinks to keep themselves awake,
with the result that they are discovered by
their respective partners in a compromising
state of squiffiness. Next act the blackest
clouds of suspicion are dispersed in a bedroom
scene, where Billy and his morning headache
are the central facts, and the incidental com-
plications are sadly hackneyed.
* * * #
Only tAvo of the newcomers seem naturally
adapted to their parts. T. A. Braidon has
the difficult job of presenting the wowserish
Billy, with his childish ignorance of intoxi-
cants. as a serio-comic person in various
phases of enlightenment. He does it very
well, though lie cannot suggest the possibility
of liis taking a second cocktail after his awful
experience Avith the first, the drunk scene
being obviously prolonged for the sake of
spinning out the farce. Miss Nightingale
looks more convincing than her acting as a
pert parlormaid who has eyes only for the
men. whereas Miss Royton’s acting in the
drunk scene is rather more effective than
her appearance as a guileless little Avife.
Percy Marmont is a conventional, harmless
deceiver Avho goes mad when lie thinks he is
deceived, and Harry Sweeney is a. trifle too
loud for an insidious seducer. Miss Ather-
ton, who acts with cold correctness, hardly
seems the sort of matron to listen to the
A'oice of the tempter Avhile she has got a con-
fiding husband who buys her the loveliest
diamond rings. She isn’t of the warm,
capricious type. The farce, Avhich is care-
fully and ornately staged, is intended to run
three weeks.
At Melbourne King’s the blokes who start
the show by swapping sad reflections in a
pawnshop continue to “Turn to the Right”
and prosper exceedingly. The nice girls are
still like unto ripe plums or peaches that fall
into the outstretched mouths of their hungry
admirers, and the moral of the piece con-
tinues to be that philanthropic burglary is
the first step towards an upright and honor-
able career.
At Melbourne Majesty’s the nights of “The
Waltz Dream” are numbered. “Canary
Cottage” comes due on Saturday for the
first time in Australia. This musical play
is a product of the same ’Murkan factory
that “So Long, Letty,” came from.
The most important difference between the
present and previous week’s bill at Mel-
bourne Tivoli is in the ballads sung by Mal-
colm McEachern, whose treatment of “When
Bright Eyes Glance” reflects further credit
on the estimable basso. Malcolm’s songs are
a musical oasis in ' a desert of rag-time
raucosity. The latest re-arrivals are the
Flying Weavers, who fly by the skin of their
teeth, so to speak, and would be better
described as exponents of the iron jaAV. The
voice of Bluett is recovering its punch, and
Bell Oliver opens her mouth in hearty praise
of Big Healthy Men.
The Fisk Jubilee Singers. Avho arrived at
Melbourne Auditorium on Saturday, chorus
niggah melodies in a Moody and SAvankey
manner, or solo effusively in songs that are
dead. Mostly a harmonium supports the
clamor, but occasionally a piano provides
the musical scaffolding for some tottery in-
stitution like “Annie Laurie,” or that dear
antiquity, “Silver Threads Among the Gold.”
Now as ever, the Fisks are best in their
chorus Avork, and Avlien they Avarble "De
Loard’s Prayer” and other religious num-
bers, the absence of a plate is severely felt.
Marshall Palmer is the most cultivated of
the soloists, and reveals his mangled feelings
in the brief and passionate history of a frac-
tured heart. The soprano, Miss Morrison,
hasn’t enough natural graces to make her
vocal deficiencies charming; and the bari-
tone, Harold Wilson, is a draAvling genTman
AA'ho turns every item into a series of musi-
cal yaAvns. There are four colored ladies
in the combination, and the greatest of them
is Bertha Miller. Bertha is a Sambo plagi-
arism of Maggie Moore, wherefore it is
superfluous to remark that she is immense.
* * * *
The St. Kilda (Vic.) Dandies had another
“Morning at the Ship Inn” on Saturday,
and the ancient edifice trembled to the
capers of five salts led by Harry de Robeck.
In the first part. Brock’s company saluted
the shade of St. Patrick in an Irish scena
Avhich commenced with remarks about
“Those Endearing Young Charms” and fin-
ished Avith a festive Hibernian jig.
* *
The Devil, who is Hoyt’s guest in Mel-
bourne this Aveek, has changed considerably
since Tiif Bulletin last met him. With
the help of producer Ince and an Amurkap
haircut, his Highness has developed into a
sort of Nut whom superior sinners would
strike off their visiting lists. Apart from
providing a little misery for the heroine,
Bessie Barriscale, and a couple of other
BOB GREIG, who is leading a J.C.W. co.
in Maoriland.
people, Beelzebub only fractures the Com-
mandment about killing, and even that
offence is committed by his Broadway
clothes. Hoyt’s screen a stronger subject,
“The Gates of Eden,” which snows how a
professed celibate sneaks into Eden after
hours, so to speak, and suffers the usual
penalty for loitering. The Metro pocket
vision. Viola Dana, is cast as the Eve who
leads the poor Adam astray.
“The House that Jack Built” is doing
unusual business at Adelaide Royal. It is
staged just as in Melbourne, except for hav-
ing a neiv set of scenery on a slightly smaller
scale; this is to be used in all the smaller
houses during the Australian tour. It is a
delightful slioav. Wondergraph has taken
over the Royal’s Fox films meantime. The
Dorsey films are at West’s, but the Ape at
the Pav. is the most striking screen-actor in
sight at the moment. Carrie Moore is at
the Majestic, Avhere Cornwallis puts up a
clever and new sort of turn, and the “Follies
of Pleasure” continue on their way, which
is always so much the same way. At the
Tivoli, the Melbourne Workgirl is just mak-
ing room for Sydney James —a much more
exhilarating person.
Vic. Chief Secretary Donald McLeod lias
once more made up liis mind about the
appointment of policewomen. Some months
ago iliac invited applications from persons
willing to serve as Jane Hops, and nearly a
hundred were sent in. McLeod looked the
papers over and then announced that he
Avouldn’t appoint anybody. Now, having
thought the matter over again, he has de-
cided to appoint “ttvo or three.” The public
hasn’t yet been informed Avhat their
duties will be; but where tAVO or three
policewomen are gathered together to justify
their official existence, it’s likely that there
Avill be something doing there that has never
been properly done before.
AT POVERTY POINT.
"C. Oekney”: Marie Tempest, soon to be
seen on Australian boards, was, like Ethel
Irving, a comic-opera artiste before she
found her feet as a comedienne pure and
simple. Straight from the London R.A.M.,
her fresh soprano was first heard on the
theatrical stage in “Dorothy.” After the
record run of Collier’s opera Marie had a
long experience of musical-comedy under
George Edwardes at Daly’s in “The Greek
Slave,” “The Geisha,” “San Toy,” etc. One
of her first hits in a legitimate acting part
was made as Nell GAvynne in an Anthony
Hope play, “English Nell.” Since then,
resting her singing voice, her talents as a
comedy actress of the first water have long
been recognised in England and America.
She should be welcome.
Marie Tempest is a perfect gourmand for
publicity. She frankly confesses that in the
matter of advertisement, enough is only as
good as a snack to her.
“Sardonyx”: “Jwosp” (B. 15/3/T7) is
wrong about that old-time scrap in “Madame
Angot.” I saAv the shindy, and it was Jean-
nie Winstoun, not Alice Lambert, who came
to blows with Clara Thompson. The ill-
feeling betAveen the two had made them
several times threaten hostilities ; this time
an over-vigorous slap from Clara brought an
equally solid return from Jearinie. For
about half a minute exchanges were lively,
and the audience avus roaring at what it
thought was clever realism, when the sudden
fall of the curtain made clear what Avas
happening. Blood aaus drawn and hair was
•pulled, but there Avsn't any “cluttering of
the stage Avith rags, locks and hairpins.” The
stage-manager squashed the exhibition too
promptly for that.
“Monkbarns”: Dyson (B. S/8/T7) is all
too brief in touching on the demolition of
old Ballarat Theatre Royal. Former play-
houses there were the Montezuma and
Charlie Napier. The Royal became Snow’s
drapery store. Foundations were laid 60
years ago for a theatre in Smith-street, Col-
lingwood, but more sensibly they were used
as the nucleus of the Foy and Gibson rag
shop. The disguised remains of defunct
playhouses are everywhere. The ramshackle
Victoria, in Bourke-street, near Hosie’s
restaurant, became the Canterbury Music
Hall. Queen’s Theatre, opened in ’45, re-
mains intact in the shell. It turned into
Clarke’s coach works, and is noAv Fall-
shaw’s billiard-table factory. There was a
little Theatre des Varieties at Salmi Morse’s
Collins-street Criterion Hotel, which had the
famous bridal chamber for lucky diggers.
Coppin’s Olympic, opened in ’55, became the
Turkish baths. After a fire it Avas renewed
as Cohen’s furniture factory. Noav there is
nothing left but the Avails, and scarcely a
fragment of the old bricks in them. . Cop-
pin’s little wooden Pantheon Theatre at Cre-
morne Gardens has long vanished. Likewise
his Haymarket, in Bourke-street, where
your grandfather saw Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Kean, Dillon, Anderson and Madame
Celeste. The Prince of Wales’s Theatre Avas
in Lonsdale-street, opposite Melbourne Hos-
pital. Burnt theatres: Royal, Bijou and
Bourke-street Varieties, afterwards the
Opera House.
“Peg-Leg”: Another of our girls gets a
job. Sylvia Bremer, Avho arrived in America
a couple of months back, has signed a con-
tract to appear in films for the Thos. 11.
Ince Co., Avhich also employs Arthur Shirley
and Enid Bennett. Enid’s sister Marjorie
Bennett, Avho Avent to U.S.A. for a holiday,
has also been engaged by the same concern,
and the Bennett sisters are at Avork together.
Sylvia’s partner will be Charles Ray, a fop-
pish but likeable youth capable of good
acting.
Referring to Madge Titheradge’s appear-
ance in Drury Lane panto., an English
greenroom gossiper mentions that -Madge s
mother played principal “boy” in a provin-
cial panto, in which one of the comic men
was A. W. Pinero.
“Floater”: lan Maclaren, the tall actor
who played the angular German spy in
“Under Fire” for the Firm, and subsequently
featured Fanny’s rabid parent in II indie
Wakes” for Beaumont Smith, is contemplat-
ing a season on his own account at Mel-
bourne King’s. The young man, who has
artistic ambitions, is talking of introducing
Melbourne to Bernard Shaw’s “Androcles
and the Lion” and one or two other plays
not previously seen here.
Memories of 29 years ago were revived by
a cablegram last week announcing that Mrs.
Fenwick had been appointed supervisor of
a military hospital mansion in England.
Mrs. Fenwick used to be Sylvia Grey, ow
of the principal dancers of the first Gaiety
Go. that came to Australia. Sylvia was a
trifle quicker on her feet than her brilliant
rival soloist, Letty Lind, an elder sister of
Fan Dango, who was also a charming comedi-
enne. They were pioneers in the art of long-
skirt dancing in thjs country, and the fact
that their gauzy under-dvaperies were art-
fully divided in a “bloomer”-like fashion
came as a revelation to the women journal-
ists who interviewed them. Sylvia Grey, in
one of her dances, used to duet with Fred
Storey, the lean and agile young man of the
accomplished co.
“Gin Fiz”: An Australian who is
landing in ’Frisco about this time is Jean
Robertson, a young Adelaide girl who
Marlowdramaed until the Firm —or vvas it
the youthful Julius? —gave her a chance
with the last Knight co. Jean should have
a better chance than most gumsuckers. She
did a fairly decent bit of movie work before
leaving here. Another recent exit was that:
of picture-man J. I). Williams and his wife.
“Stargazer”: I have been too long associ-
ated with studios to be greatly startled by
revelations of the human form divine : hut I
must confess that the use to which the
creators of great films are putting the un-
draped dame pulls me up short. In terrific
50-reel plays, costing a billion dollars and
designed to inculcate great moral lessons, I
find that almost invariably one of the most
conspicuous mediums of inculcation is
woman in the raw or so nearly so that the
scarcity of the garment deceives the eye and
you think she’s got nothing on even if she
has a bit. Eve in her salad dressing is sup-
posed to convey an important lesson to man-
kind ; and picture actresses are taking leaves
out of her book, though a great many are
not wearing them. Poor Chidley’s mistake
Avas in being born a man. Had he been born
a woman he could have pursued any great
moral purpose he cared to in prodigious film
dramas, in verdure clad, like Eve, except for
the absence of the verdure.
(Continued on page 26.)
If the British could only pay compliments
as nicely as the French, a decent Australian
soldier would not now be walking lame as
the result of a terrific leg-pull. When a
driver got a typed letter on A.I.F. note-
paper conveying the news that he had been
awarded the V.C. and promoted to sergeant,
he took it at face-value, quietly spread the
good tidings, and bought himself a strip of
V.C. ribbon. There was nothing in the inci-
dent to arouse a trusting man’s suspicions,
as, apparently, the usual procedure is to
allow the mechanical typewriter to clatter
first news of the award to V.C.-winners.
But instead of being paraded at Bucking-
ham Palace. Driver Billjim, who was in
London at the time, found himself presented
at ■ a police-court on a charge of illegally
wearing the ribbon. He' was acquitted; but
that doesn’t end the matter. Our boys are
shy birds, and the next .Australian hero will
have to be leg-roped and have an affidavit
read to him before he will submit to any
medalling.
Shackleton, lecturing in Melbourne, let the
cat out of the bag in regard to the Polar
exploration business. After confessing that
his last expedition was a failure, he
announced
It was not science that caused me to attempt that
journey from Weddell Sea to Ross Sea across the
Antarctic, but the sentiment and idea of the thing,
and a love of adventure.
This should be remembered next time
Shackleton or some such adventure-seeker
proposes another sentimental journey to
Polar regions and appeals to the Govern-
ment or the public for funds. Some valuable
lives and large sums of cash have been
Avasted on Polar jaunts, but the old gag
about the scientific importance of the adven-
ture has always been exploited. Shackleton
is the first public performer of his class
honest enough to admit that the spirit that
sends men to the Arctic and Antarctic is not
very different from that which causes other
blokes to try to bang a piano or bIoAV a
trombone for 68 days.
REDIVIVUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The employment of men under Cl on the London
stage is now forbidden.
- The Actors’ Home massaged its jaw;
I heard the has-beens all rejoice,
Applauding the Imperial law
AVith one coagulated voice.
Of acting there must soon appear
A splendid recrudescence here.
1 saw grey, shaking Romeos
Shed Tybalt’s venerable gore, .
' And Hamlets, capped with winter snows,
Put up decrepit fights once more.
And senile heroes roar and blent,
AVith bundles on their gouty feet.
“By gad!” said one, and dropped a tooth,
“Once more to our forsaken art,
Too long besmirched by callow youth,
Fresh glory will our work impart;
To-day ’tis youth, and not old age,
That bides superfluous on the stage.
“This war will not have been in vain
It' soon, though indirectly, it
Brings genius to light again.
A fid, on my word, I’m feeling fit.
i'll do my lngomar, 1 swear,
With one to wheel me in my chair!”
VICTOBI.A.
STARGAZER.


USHER'S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
‘Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably With any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
"Works, Leicester, England. [1
The Conservatorium
Magazine.
A musical magazine of genuine interest to all
students, teachers, concert-goers and music-lovers in
general. 40 pagres. Price 6cJ.
INSTRUCTIVE AND ENTERTAINING.
“Good literary and musical value for your money.”
—Bulletin.
“Avoids the dulness and dryness of the usual
musicians’ journal.”— Sunday Times.
No. 3 NOW ON SALE
Contains several new and attractive features.
. No. 2 IS SOLD OUT AND OUT OF PRINT.
Obtainable from Paling’s, Nicholson’s, N.S.IV.
Bookstall Co. and Branches, or from any newsagent,
per Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, including Queensland.
Subscription, inclusive of postage, 3/-.
Address,'State Conservatorium of Music.
FOURTH ISSUE
Time of receiving applications
extended to 1
MONDAY, 2nd APRIL, 1917.
Applications will continue to be received to the above date in terms of the original
Prospectus, with the following adjustments:—
FULLY-PAID APPLICATIONS— If lodged on or before Bth March, 1917, interest at the
rate of £l/17/6 per cent, will be paid on 15th June, 1917.
If lodged after Bth March and on or before '2nd April, 1917, interest at the rate of
£l/10/- per cent, will be paid on 15th June, 1917.
INSTALMENT APPLICATIONS.—If deposit and first instalment paid or or before Bth
March, 1917, interest at £3/14/-. per cent, will be paid on 15th December, 1917.
If deposit, first and second instalments are paid after Stli March, but on or before
2nd April, 1917, interest at £3/12/- per cent, will be paid on 15th December, 1917.
All other instalments will be due on the dates shewn in the Prospectus.
After the dates mentioned above, interest will be paid half-yearly at rate of 42 per
cent, per annum.
Applications will be received at all banks, State Savings Banks and Post Offices where
Money Order Business is transacted.
Support the Loan and Help Win the War .
February, 1911. Commomcealth Bank of Australia.
SOCIETY
DECOLLETE.
BELLE: “What did you think of my frock
last niglit?”
N ELLE: “Charming! I hardly saw it.”
“Wart”: Circular Head (Tas.), which
gets a boat for a few hours weekly, has a
Waterside Workers’ Union. When the mem-
bers are not watersiding they are mostly
farmers, timber-getters and spud-diggers.
The union is a loyal branch of the big
Federation of Waterside Workers which
Billy Hughes .created, and as such was
ordered by headquarters to have a picnic
and be gay. A special meeting of the union
was held, and it was unanimously resolved
to hold the picnic on a AVednesday, the day
the steamer Marrawah leaves for Mel-
bourne. It was also resolved to demand ss.
an hour for any work done on that day, and
tine any member f 1 who worked for less.
However, that idea was dropped,- because
someone found out that, according to the
rules, the boat could not be loaded by the
union under any circumstances. Nor could the
crew be allowed to touch the cargo offering;
if they did it would be “black” ou arrival
in Melbourne. There were 180 cases of
butter and six tons of cheese which had
been carted by motor-lorry from the country
districts, to say nothing of a quantity of
blackwood timber. The boat left at 11 in
the mornings—empty. Then the motor-lorry
was again brought into play, and the butter
and cheese rushed to Smithson, to be for-
warded by a ketch. And the members-of
the union spent the picnic day at their
ordinary work of spud-digging and timber-
getting !
* * * *
While he lived John Norton wasn’t much
of a success as a reformer; but he did a
big thing when he died. For more years
than most people can remember there had
been talk of a Testator’s Family Mainte-
nance law in N. S. Wales; but as there
didn’t seem to be any votes in it no party
ever made a hobby of it. Then John died,
after practically cutting his wife out of his
will; and as Mrs. John wasn’t a lady to turn
the other cheek in a spirit of unchristian re-
signation, the usual old Testator’s Family
Maintenance Bill that happened to be then
before the House found itself kicked and
cuffed along as it never had been kicked and
cuffed before. Since then, partly because the
law was (through the same influence) made
retrospective, a Court has been kept so busy
with disputed .wills that the usual Divorce
business has had to be hung up. As a fair
sample of the cases dealt with, take this
one. A son had crept into his father’s
favor, and, by a late will, scooped practi-
cally all the estate, out of which he made
the widow a niggardly allowance. Another
son came in for a small share. The Court
not only granted a decent income from the
estate to the widow and a fair allowance to
a daughter, but decided that the portion of
the son who had scored under the will
should provide seven-eighths of the allow-
ance. This knocked all the glory out of the
luck of the favored son, and placed him on
a level hardly as good as that of his brother
and on a worse one than that of the widow.
* * * *
A flying man drops a bokay for Billjim : —•
I had the luck last week to see the Light Horse in
action, being just overhead when they rushed .
This flying game has always struck me as being the
best fun, but that charge beat anything I’ve ever
seen, and, as you know, I’ve had the luck to see a
fair bit. Any man who fell in that gallop must have
had one compensating flash of glorious life before
going out. Just mad men on mad horses! They
swept everything before them, and I found myself
hanging out and hooraying as if I were one of a race
crowd. M swears that I howled “Australia
wins! Australia wins!” in a voice like a steam-
whistle, and, by Jove, Australia did win. It was a
wonderful thing to see, but think of being in it!
I saw some of the fellows later, and they were as
modest as men who’ve done a good job usually are.
Having nobody else to give the credit to, they gave-
it to the horses.
* * * *
“A.W.Iv.”: Harry, our ' company cook,
whom we buried at Gallipoli, had the queer-
est resurrection story I’ve ever heard. He
was a “leatherneck” on H.M.S. Camper-
down when that ship was accidentally
rammed and sunk during Mediterranean
manoeuvres. Though on duty ’tween decks
when the plunge came he was vomited to the
surface with the rush of escaping air and
drifted into Dreamland clutching a floating
grating with a 5-h.p. clutch. Unnoticed by
the naval rescue parties, he was picked up
some hours later by French fishermen, and
eventually reached his naval depot in Eng-
land, fondly hoping for hearty greetings. He
was soon disillusioned by the “brass hat”
in charge, who pushed him into the clink,
where he sat and swore for 24 hours. He
was “in” on a charge of impersonating him-
self ! He roared with laughter when he
came to the next chapter—how Mrs. Harry
received the news of his death. Then there
was the joke of having his name qhipped off
a seaside memorial to the Camperdown vic-
tims. Never did a man have such fun
coming to life again! But Death laughed
last, as he always does, when our joker fell
face down with a Turkish bullet in him.
An old contributor to The Bulletin, an
officer of the Flying Corps in Mesopotamia,
now a prisoner of war i.i Turkey-in-Asia,
describes Christmas and New Year’s Day :
In the yard at the rear of our jerry-built terrace
of four houses, where 40 of us live, we had a
rough proscenium, where during the summer months
we staged Sundry Shows, written by various of us,
and ranging from drama and revue to rag-time and
ancient Greek. They were “produced” by a naval
officer of a theatrical family who was once stage-
manager at London Garrick. Of course “properties”
are scarce and oil for illumination expensive; but
we do not want for wigs, which are made from
goats’ hair by a soldier servant with some experience
as a coiffeur. “The Pessimists’ Dream” was about
our best farce. The actors were supposed to be
cheery young fellows of from 00 to 80. They are
British prisoners in 1950, and on arrival of parcels
of false teeth and ear-trumpets grow quite excited.
This excitement is increased by the appearance of
•a new prisoner, a Boy Scout, of the 1000th Division,
who discovers his grandfather among the prisoners,
and is welcomed by all hands, since it gives them the
excuse to tell all their time-worn stories over
again. Finally word comes that the war has
ended; but everybody refuses to leave without a
year’s notice.
Christmas was as festive as circumstances would
permit. After much debate “Jack the Giant Killer”
was agreed upon as the panto. We produced it on
December 23, and beards were taken off by those
concerned to do it justice. Now that winter is
KNEW HIM.
SHE: "Well, I predicted it.”
IT: "What?”
SHE: "Whatever happened.”
with us and our open-air theatre is covered with
snow, “Jack” had to come indoors. We fixed up a
stage in our largest room, which measures nearly
20 x 12. We dispensed with ballets, but we had
Principal Boy, Princess (our blondest blonde), K,ing,
Widow, and Jack’s dog. There were six acts full of
topical jokes and gags, and our scene cloths were
works of art —our “painters” did them with char-
coal on bed-sheets. The Pirates’ Ship and the Cave
gave the brigands an opportunity to show what they
could do in the way of consuming rakki, the local
tipple, which is the nearest we could get to rum.
It may have been the rakki; it certainly wasn’t the
lobster, but poor old Jack had to make his own
splash when he was thrown overboard. Still, like
the other shows, it was a huge success.
On Christmas Day we exchanged visits with the
people next door. They weren’t exactly strangers;
in fact, we exchange visits every day. But we
made these occasions of great importance, and
decorated the premises with home-made paper lan-
terns and the tables with elaborate menus. If
we couldn’t always produce the corresponding dishes
it wasn’t our fault. There was mistletoe, too; but
thereabouts there seemed to be something missing.
Festivities concluded on New Year's Eve with a
fancy-dress ball; and with the aid of a small organ,
which an explorer had discovered, we did very
well. Our only other instrument is a mandolin.
Perhaps it was the mandolin; or maybe it was the
rakki. Certainly by the time 1917 arrived some of
the ladies looked almost real. But they never
went to the Methodist Ladies’ College.
And then we settled down to devise new schemes
to break the monotony of captivity. All of us
came to grief in the early days of the Mesopotamia
campaign, and most of us have enjoyed the hospi-
tality of Apion Kara Hissar for the worst part of
two years.
•ifr * * *
“Globe”: I got the information from an
Englishman in Egypt, and he was so cock-
sure about it that I felt he must be right.
“It stands to reason,” said he, “that people
like the Australians, living always in tents,
generation after generation, must become
rough.” That’s why we haven’t got any
mannahs, you boundahs!
“Tam O’Shanter” : There is no fun in elec-
tions now. When I was young all the
officers at the country polling-booths were of
the imported class, and most of them wore
tall hats and had a habit of pulling things
out of an abyss in the tail of coats that hung
below their knees. They
knew nobody, and no-
body cared, for that
made it all the easier
for the hardworking fel-
low who wanted to be
Tim Finnigan, deceased.
pro tem. Every tomb-
stone with a man’s
name on it was an
election asset. I remem-
ber a contest for Yass
Plains. Polling-day
was over, and I
watched the numbers
being posted till all the
returns except one were
in. As my man was
then over 80 votes be-
hind, and there were
fewer than 60 eligible
voters in the place
where the belated re-
turn was to come from.
I went home and kicked
the dog. But I apolo-
gised to the poor brute
when I heard that my
man had been returned
by a majority of over
20. The graveyard had
given him a majority for
that centre during the
last hour or so. But
altered “c ut s” an d
clean-shaven faces for
the next few weeks
showed clearly that a
close contest had been
anticipated. It was a
great lesson in civics.
* •
“4217 Gunner”: A
lot of the lads stumbled
into a tattooer’s den
one night. One of them
had mixed his drinks
brilliantly and just
told the man with
the needle to “Go ’head,
ol’ boy,” before he fell
asleep. Next morning
was a hurry-up fall-in.
All day, at parade and
after, his neck and
chest itched; and when
he got a mirror and had
a look, he fdund his
identification tag, twice
life-size, tattooed there for gbod, just as if
it was hanging on the usual bootlace.
“The Immature Male”: During a recent
argument in the lines one swaddy called the
other—a late arrival —a “Nat Gould.” After-
wards I asked him why. “Well,” drawled
the warrior, “Nat wrote ‘Landed at Last,’
didn’t he?”
“Astron”: One of the biggest blazers ever
known in comets will be visible with the
naked eye this year; but it will be small,
because of its tremendous distance. It will
only come within 164 million miles of our
inquisitive noses and we must look for it in
July. This traveller was discovered by
Wolf, of Heidelberg, on April 27 last, so it
has been hurrying towards us for nearly 11
months. Last July it passed behind the
sun, and did not emerge till lately. When
we lose it we need not expect it again for
60,000 years. So make the most of it,
gentlemen ! You will be snugly tucked away
before it plays its return season.
HABIT OF MIND.
“Yes, he tried to pass the doctor this morn-
ing.”
“Weally! How much does he owe the
beggah?”
THE SILENT KEYBOARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Melbourne musician has invented a silent key-
board for the use of piano students. With it the
hands may be perfectly educated, though the notes
struck are so faint that they cannot be heard outside
the room.
’Twill now be worth one’s while to live ;
New hopes and aspirations buoy us 1
I will a hundred kopeks give
To mark appreciation joyous,
And help to raise a sculptured stone,
A pension, and eternal free board
For him who by hi* grace alone
Has filled the want that's longest known
With his amazing silent keyboard.
That some must write while others play
Has been the rule in every lodgings,
And wails of tortured airs would stray
To plague the bards, despite their dodgings.
Now give the violin that’s dumb,
A ’cello that’s the merest lisper,
The still bassoon, the noiseless drum,
The cornet that will never hum
Above the faintest, furthest whisper 1
Do this, 0 rare philanthropist,
Hob of their sting the parties choral,
Let only silent songs exist,
And on your brow be all the laurel 1
’Twill but remain for us to see
Your keyboard fathered by the nation;
Then give it out to players free,
And make its use compulsory
By unrelenting legislation!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


The drink for men. Men who drink whisky wonder
why there are others who don’t. Men who drink
Thorne’s Whisky wonder why there are some who
don’t. If you’re a whisky-drinker and want real
quality-production—the choicest that is distilled in
the famous district of Glenlivet —you should call for
Thorne’s. The carefully-selected high-grade malts from
which Thorne’s is distilled give it a distinctive flavor
and delightful bouquet.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[2
jytr
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fyj
TO
H-M, THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
rt
SCHWEPPES
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Made exclusively from Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice.
Breathes there a man who never yet has heard
The Name of Schweppes? The notion is absurd!
By Land or Sea —in North, South East, or West —-
Schweppei’ Lime Juice Cordial is a Household Word.
Omar, thou shouldst be living in these times,
' Schweppes’ Rubaiyat to sing in rosy rhymes;
For Id! Thy purple vintage pales before
The golden splendor of Montserrat’s Limes!
SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL COMPETI-
TION PRIZE, Omar-Khayyam, 1910.
Obtainable at all Leading
Storekeepers.
<r
Si
Hr
I
o
mm
Schweppes
--
“Peter” : The Italian Opera Co. now again
in Melbourne is an enthusiastic customer of
a Bourke-street small-goods emporium, but
never has enough English to satisfy its appe-
tite. The other day a member of the co.
wandered into the shop and tried hard to
indicate his favorite nourishment. His frag-
ment of English failing him, and his gestures
still leaving his hunger unappeased, he sud-
denly had the bright idea of grunting while
planting one large Italian hoof on the
counter and pointing at it in an eloquent
manner. The shopkeeper immediately
understood. He wanted pigs’ feet.
It is told of a very fashionable Adelaide
church. The silver-tongued preacher had
been pitching into gambling as one of the
chief sins of the day, and the mostly-feminine
audience was driven to remember the occa-
sions when its losses at auction-bridge had
OILSKINS?
BROTHER BRUSH: “Hello, Jimmy's taken to
painting in oils.”
THE GENTLE MAIDEN: “Note, how can you
pretend to know what he wore?”
been a little too heavy to be convenient. (It
is never gambling when you win.) But after
the sermon the choir handsomely handed out
(as announced) the anthem, “It is a good
thing” (Bridge).
’“Bill Bowyang” : 1 know something about
bayonet fighting now, and declare that half
of the stuff that used to be drummed into the
recruit in military camps in Australia was
rot. Two weeks after I landed at Anzac I
pulled up in front of a burly Turk —one of
the Constantinople Fire Brigade, and they
were big brutes. There was no time for
right or left parries which we had been
taught to use ’way back in Liverpool. To
have adopted such tactics would have given
Abdul the opportunity he was looking for.
1 thought of a couple of boxing feints I had
learnt in Snowy Sturgeon’s rooms in Bris-
bane years back. As a result 1 surprised
the Turk and punctured him in the ribs.
A cobber following behind
finished the job. The chap
with a knowledge of boxing
easily makes the best bay-
onet fighter. He is provided
against almost every eventu-
ality—even against that
cunning ruse practised by
the Iluns upon the Anzacs
at Pozieres. They advanced
with hands uplifted, shout-
ing “Kamerad,” and then, as
Billjim lowered his bayonet-
point, threw their arms in
seeming gratitude around the
Anzae’s neck. As the Ger-
man arms fell upon Bill-
jim’s shoulders they tight-
ened, and another Hun
would snatch up the rifle
and bayonet that poor old
Bill had .dropped and stab
him through the back. Now,
even though Billjim is locked
in the German embrace, if
he is a boxer he has half a
dozen methods of adminis-
tering to the Hun the treat-
ment designed for himself,
and that without trying to
escape from the grip. The
boxing brain has adopted
tricks from the hempen
square whereby even an un-
.armed man may conquer an
armed opponent and possess
himself of his enemy’s
weapon. I have seen it done
in half a dozen different
ways, by small men against big, by weak men
against strong. And fr >m our point of view
the beauty of it is that the German never is
a boxer.
“Clericus”: “Now Then” (B. 22/2/T7)
nominates as champion mean man the indi-
vidual who refused to pay the doctor who
repaired him after the accident, on the
grounds that he was unconscious at the
time. I’ve got something better than
that. About a year
ago a local man went
to the Front, leaving
with a friend power of
attorney to receive £G
of his pay per month.
This money was to be
handed to the sol-
dier’s best girl,
daughter of a local
person. Recently the
girl Billjim left be-
hind him fell in love
with and married a
hero who stayed at
home. After the
honeymoon, the un-
blushing bride pre-
sented herself at the
office of the trustee on
the usual date to de-
mand the monthly
allowance from the
man she had jilted.
The trustee declined
to pay over the sol-
dier’s- money to the
Wife of another man,
and the lady left in a
rage. A little later
the bride’s sainted
father walked into
the office and de-
manded the money,
and, on meeting with
a curt refusal, he
wildly challenged the
trustee to “come outside and settle it with
yer fusts, as I mean ta hae ma tochter’s
money, ye keri.”
* * * *
“Trooper Bluegum” : Come over to Egypt
for camels on a string. Through the glasses,
just after Romani, I figured that 1 saw a
team of, as I thought, 1000.. Archer, of
Grassmere (Q.), plumped for 1200, while
Stuckey, of Mount Gambier (S.A.), opined
that there were 1400. Mclvell, of Fiji,
looked longest and estimated 1600. I
hurriedly adjourned then for a long
beer, but came back and had an-
other look. The string was still winding in
towards El Ferdan. My final estimate was
2000. Anyhow, I’ll swear to 1500. liici-
dentally. you should keep iu mind that the
Imperial Camel Corps which biffed Abdul so
heartily at Katia, Maglidaba and Rafa was
more than half. Australian men, and Eng-
land does not know that yet. Come to think
of it, there are lots of things that England
does not know yet.
“Gunner”: A sentry standing easy at
Liverpool camp gate did not salute his
superior officer. Then this: —
The Officer: You are the sentry ?
Sentry: Yes, sir.
Officer: Do you know your duties?
Sentry: Yes, sir.
Officer: Do you know you should salute your
superior officer?
Sentry: No, sir.
Officer: How long have you been in camp?
Sentry: Two or three days, sir.
Officer: What company do you belong to?
Sentry: The Gas Company, sir.
CLOTHES MAKE THE MAN.
O.C.: “Did you deliver that message?”
BILLJIM: “ Yessir!”
O.C.: “Did you give it an officer?”
BILLJIM: “ Dunno, sir!”
O.C.: “You don't know the difference be-
tween an officer and a private?”
BILLJIM: “Well, sir, ’e was in 'is bath, sir.”
From the Office Curate: —
There’s no need for a Sydney-sider to go to
Queensland for a good sectarian shindy. He can
find one raging right at his front door, where Arch-
gaiters Wright is doing his little bit to win the war
and promote national unity by keeping the home
fires .of sectarianism burning. It began at a Bible
Society’s meeting in Sydney Town Hall, where Dr.
Wright delivered from the platform a lengthy eulogy
of W. M. Hughes. The Archgaiters has lately dis-
covered in Hughes, the partner of Joe Cook, many
virtues to which the archiepiscopal eye was formerly
blind in the president of the Waterside Workers’
Federation. By way of supplying some sort of
relevancy between his speech and the occasion on
which it was delivered, he shed a few tears over the
alleged fact that most of the opposition to Hughes
came “from a great communion in our midst which
denies the Bible to its people.” It was well-worn
Orange fiction, but it did its work, and started the
flames. Next, in case the conflagration should burn itself
out without doing enough harm, the Archgaiters
dropped oil on the embers by preaching an election-
eering sermon in his cathedral under the guise of
a Lenten meditation. According to Sydney Tele-
graph, which gleefully gave his inflammatory
remarks three cross-heads on its centre page
(19/3/’l7), he told his drowsy congregation:
“Labor is supported apparently by the whole strength
of the Roman Catholic Church, and Rome always
has its price. .. .1 object to the domination of Rome,
and I distrust it.... Most serious would it be if it
dominated the Government. .. .Such considerations
make me decide to vote unhesitatingly for the
National party, and I hope that no ope will fail to
register a vote, and I hope, also, a vote for the
National party, if the considerations I have referred
to are worth anything.” A good section of Dr.
Wright’s own clergy and people haven't forgiven
him for the calamitous “vestments” squabble which
he stirred up just after his importation seven years
ago, and they aren’t likely to. take very seriously his
attempt to influence their votes; but the sectarian
devil will riot with fresh vigor after thus receiv-
ing his blessing. What effect it will have on the
Church is another matter. There are tens of thou-
sands of Australian people who were looking upon it
rather favorably as an institution whose mission it
was to preach Christ. If it can without protest be
prostituted so that it preaches Christ and Billy
Hughes, or Christ and Bigjohn Forrest, or Christ and
the 1.W.W., it seems to be quite hopeless to expect
any future for it.
Sydney Equity Court lias as last gut rid
of a case that has been worrying it for
years. A Chinese, who came from Canton,
died and left £3353, which he bequeathed
vaguely to "the hospital at Canton, China.
First the children tried to upset the will
on several grounds and failed; then the
hearing of the Public Trustee’s request for
instructions had to be held over while some-
one went and counted the hospitals in Can-
ton. Last week the Court gave its decision
that the money must go to - the Canton
Hospital, the Bund, Canton, along with its
regrets that, owing to the testator having
died prior to the date to which the measure
was made retrospective, the Testators’
Family Maintenance Act could not be held
to apply. So, if the Commonwealth Govern-
ment doesn’t intervene, the three thousand-
odd will go out of Australia at a time when
cash is short. There won’t be any more
joss-sticks burnt before dad’s photograph
in that household.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang” (London) : Over this way
the A.S.C. is now enlisting women as drivers.
But I’m told that they are not aroused in
the morning by the familiar old barrack-
room shout of “Come on, there! Show a
leg!” • ' »
“Quidam”: If, as many people expect,
hard times are to come to Australia, and the
easy, loan-fed conditions of so many years
are to be exchanged for a period in which
pretty well everyone will take a hole up in
his belt, they may at least have the effect of
putting some ginger into a lot of the young
men of the present day. A very large per-
centage of them appear to exist in a condi-
tion of suspended animation. Twenty years
ago a camp of young fellows working in the
bush was a cheerful place, and slight hard-
ships were not worried about. Nowadays
only middle-aged or married men appear to
get any pleasure out of roughing it. Big,
strong, single young fellows seem to get
pleasure only in being miserable. They can’t
stand “batching,” can’t stand the loneliness,
can’t stand the life and can’t stand anything
except drawing their pay, and that is never
enough. If a young chap with only himself
to keep loses half a day through rain, he
groans about it as if somebody had
drunk his beer, though lie is getting 10s. or
11s. a day. The price of everything is a
robbery, the rate of wage a scandal. Every-
thing should be legally cheapened—except
wages, which should be put up. At the same
time, if it is suggested to one who is appar-
ently irrevocably ruined because he has lost
half a day during the week that, if he likes,
he can put it in on Saturday, it is shown
that it is morally and physically impossible
for him to work on Saturday afternoon.
Compared with their fathers, the plucky and
energetic cockies and diggers and bush-
workers who faced hardships like men and
carved out homes and brought up large
families on less income than the poorest
rouseabout now has, they are a discontented,
growling, gloomy and cantankerous lot, a
disgrace to a country that has plenty of room
WHILE THE MISSUS FRIES THE
BACON.
and plenty of rewards for men with grit
enough to get away from the towns and
battle with life. If hard times compel the
young man of to-day to forget what a dread-
ful burden life is, and inspire him to bustle
around like his dad did (not forgetting
“mum” either), they will be by no means an
unmitigated disadvantage. If not, the young
groucher will have to be dynamited out of
the road, or Australia will not prosper as it
should.
CLOTHES AND THE MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A nip is in the air,
The evening breeze blows chilly;
The costumes of the fair
Grow sober and less frilly ;
My tailor pipes a stave—
Seductive are his flirtings—
Ere Summer’s in its grave,
Orders “esteemed” he’ll crave
For Autumn-Winter suitings.
Declining is my biz,
Bills on my head are pouring.
What odds if coal has riz,
That gas is skyward soaring?
What though my purse grows lean
Through these eternal lootings'?
Cash, to the last, last bean,
Must be laid out, I ween,
On Autumn-Winter suitings.
The season’s at “the Fall.”
The seedy-suited Adam
Eve’s dress-accounts appal—-
Sealskins demandeth madam !
Hard-up he curses war’s
Upheavals and uprootings,
And as “the Court’s” grim doors
lie nears, his tailor roars
His Autumn-Winter suitings.
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


THE ALARMED DRIFTER


THE KAISER: “Help, help! Do you want, this brute of yours to destroy the
Sacred Rights of the Oppressor?”
THE AUTOCRAT: “I’d put the muzzle on him with pleasure, but, you see”
THE KAISER: “Very kind of him, of course, to interfere; but I wonder what will happen when the brute comes back.”
AN ADVENTURE WITH A BEAR.


“The connoisseur is one who knows. The dilet-
tante is one who, thinks lie knows.” Try Maitell’s
and you’ll become a connoisseur; you will know then
what the best is; and will know" you know. When
it comes to ordering brandy again, you will specify
MARTELL’S BRANDY,
and thus enjoy the luxury of flavor, the mental and
physical tonic,' that Martell’s ensures. Never travel
without some Martell’s. It is
THE BRANDY OF UNBEATEN QUALITY. [2
SHOW DAYS.
METROPOLE HOTEL,
Monday March 26
Tuesday March 27
Wednesday March 28
Thursday March 29
Madam, —Yon arc cordially invited to
view our Special Show, when there will be
displayed a representative selection of exclu-
sive New Season’s Styles in Millinery,
Costumes, Fur and Sports Coats, Lingerie,
Laces, Veilings and Original Novelties of
all kinds.
Our French Corsetiere will be in attend-
ance - Yours faithfully,
Hicks, Atkinson 8 Sons Pty. Ltd.,
348-50 Collins Street, Melbourne.
nr'
OA»-'
©
k?A XX"* •
‘*&Ssn&
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&WHITTY
MEL&OURME & SYDNEY
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
i Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Ngatimamoe, Waitaha and Ngaitaliu
tribes of Maoriland lost their big chief the
other day, when Taame Haereroa Parata,
M.L.C., passed out at his home in the South
Island (M.L.). lie was the direct descend-
ant of Tamatea, the famous old Maori navi-
gator who skippered the canoe Takitimu
from Hawaiki. “Tommy” represented the
Southern Maoris in the M.L. Representa-
tives for 27 years. In 1912, when the Upper
House coo-eed, the Maoris of the South
selected the old chief’s son Rakatauhake to
fill his chair in the House of Reps. Our
departed brother was 81 when the black
canoe came for him. *
On the unity of Australian origin, as con-
trasted with the mixed breeding of the
U.S.A., Professor Scott, in his new “History
of Australia,” points out that from the very
beginning of responsible government there
has not bbeh a Premier in any of the six
States, oi* a Commonwealth Prime Minister,
with a mune of foreign derivation ; and the
same thing applies to every one of the 50
elected members of the Conventions of 20
years ago that framed the Commonwealth
Constitution.
HIS QUIET LITTLE WEEK ENDS.
HOBBS: “Do you yet much enjoyment out of
your week-end cottage ?”
SNOBBS: “ Rather!"
HOBBS: “Go do ion often?"
SNODUS: "Never, old chap—but the wife
docs.”
“Bob” Smith, perhaps Sydney’s best-
known solicitor, died last week. For many
years past he had been a member of the firm
of Norton, Smith and Co. James Norton,
the founder, was admitted to practice in
England, and arrived in Sydney on the ship
Maria, carrying female exiles, in September.
ISIS. When he died in ’62 his son carried
on the business in company with the late
William Earner. On the dissolution of that
partnership James Norton carried on the
business alone, until he was joined by W. C.
Westgarth, O. S. Sanders and Robert Smith.
The firm is now the oldest in the six-and-
eightpenny business in Sydney, Allen and
Allen coming next.
“Fleecer” on a much-discussed Hun :
I’m tired of watching people shudder at mention
'of the name of Edwards, formerly Eichengruen, of
the Continental Tyres, who is glibly set down as a
German spy. From a first-hand knowledge of the
circumstances, let me point out 'that it was the
NO LAUGHING MATTER.
S HE: “I read in a magazine that indiges-
tion could be cured by laughter.”
HE: "Probably, but it's so difficult to see
the humorous side of it.”
Cook-Deakin Administration that gave Edwards a
commission, and the said commission was doubtless
granted in the full knowledge of what little use it
was likely to prove. The grandiloquent “Australian
Volunteer Automobile Corps” was formed by cer-
tain members of the motor and allied trades, pos-
sibly in the hope that some cars and equip-
ment would later be sold to the Defence Department.
The Melbourne “division” of the “Corps” consisted
of 15 traders, all of whom, with two exceptions,
were lieutenants, The other two were majors. You
couldn’t be a private in that “Corps” no matter how
hard you tried. Edwards was the leading man in the
lyre trade, and couldn’t afford to remain outside
the “Corps” from a business point of view—nor
could the,other members keep him out, as a matter
of fair play. The members were really glorified chauf-
feurs, whose military duties consisted*; of driving, a
budding general or field-admiral or something from
point to point. All the military secrets which any
“lieutenant” had the chance of acquiring can to-day
be learned quite as easily by any ordinary car-owner.
So much was the “Auto Corps” valued by, the mili-
tary authorities, that it was disbanded within a
month of the outbreak of war. Incidentally, the
name Edwards, was adopted by this man’s father,
who probably got tired of hearing people mangle his
real label. .
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :—-
In .a- couufqrtable. artistically-furnished cottage in
a quiet street* at Neutral Bay reside two daughters
of the late Henry Barkcs, each battling successfully
with the world and its ways. One lias a typing
bu.sinessi tlje other teaches music. For health reasons
the litfJßV was ordered to Take much outdoor (xer-
eise:- So she took up shell, collecting on the beaches
as a hobby, and fits remits may be seen in number-
less specimens in numerous cabinets. Mbs I‘nrkes
delves into the.science of eoucbology and is .a member
of most societies connected with shell-gathering.
F. 10. Horan, solicitor, who had spent
many years at Inglewood (Vie.), died a few
days ago at Albert Park, Melbourne. Horn
in Dublin 72 years ago, be cairn* to Victoria
with bis mother and three sisters when be
was eight. A few years later be was sent
to St. Patrick's College; among bis school-
fellows there were John Madden and brother
Frank, now Speaker of the Leg. Assembly.
Horan was admitted to the Vie. Bar in
1878. his admission being moved by his old
school-clmm Madden. Next he was a clerk
in the Crown Law Offices at Melbourne; bnt
after a while he tried his luck at Inglewood
as clerk of court. The man who encour-
aged him to go there was W. 11. Coffey, who
afterwards became a Judge in N. S. Wales.
Four years afterwards, Coffey sold his prac-
tice to Horan and left Inglewood. The new
man stuck to his job on the old goldfield till
a few months ago, when, his health failing,
he sold out.
Concerning our departed brother: —
Tommy Parata, M.L.C., who died in Maoriland
the other day, had socked it into every' Government
good and hard over Maori rights ever since 1885,
Taame had been a toiler in his day by sea and land.
He was born with the perfume of whale oil in his
nostrils; his father was an old-time New Bedford
whaling skipper named Trapp, who bossed a 350-ton
barque in southern seas and spent a' profitable season
in 1536-37 round Foveaux Strait way. He married
a Ruapuke Island woman. Soon after Taame
appeared on the scene he was sent off to Johnny
Jones’s whaling station at Waikouaiti, the hard-case
place where a shocked missionary was Informed that
“Sunday never comes into this yere blanky bay.”
In the ’seventies Taame ran a whaling station there
himself, after doing a turn in the pilot-boat at
Otago Heads and a spell of bullock-punching in the
Backblocks. The old man leaves a fat little farm
nearby the old blubber-slicing camp, a top-notch
collection of ancestral greenstone head-smashers, and
a handsome family well distributed over the ferny
islands.
Canon P. A. Micklem, of Brisbane, chosen
to superintend the collection-plate at tony
St. James’s, Sydney, is a dapper, smooth-
faced cleric a little over sft. high in his
boots, but a good head and shoulders aboA'e
the average Anglican parson in scholarship
and ability. Born in the Cold Country 37
years ago, Micklem Avas schooled at HarroAv,
and won an open scholarship at Oxford,
where he studied other things besides the
bleat, leaving with the highest honors
(“double first”) which Oxford can give.
Cuddesdon College then trained liim for the
Anglican priesthood. After a spell as a
master at Harrow, and another as a curate,
Micklem settled down at St. Augustine’s
College, Canterbury (Eng.), helping to train
missionary priests under Bishop Knight—
an Australian, bom at Bega (N.S.W.).
Seven years ago, when Archbishop Donald-
son and the other Anglican gaiters in
Queensland went searching for the best man
Anglicanism could produce to boss its Col-
lege at Nundah (Q.), in the hope of raising
the low standard of parsonical education in
this country, they imported Micklem for the
billet. As all his able-bodied students are
now wearing khaki, and as Anglican bishops
iu Queensland have agreed not to ordain
men of military age till the job of putting
the Kaiser in his place is finished, Micklem
has had nothing to do at the college lately.
He has filled in time by writing a volume of
the big Westminster biblical commentary
which he was engaged by the London pub-
lishers ‘to prepare. Sydney Anglicanism,
which runs mostly in a narrow Orange
groove, will look sideways at him, for he
will be too brainy and broad-minded to re-
peat its insectarian party formulas; but he
is a sure tip for a mitre somewhere in Aus-
tralia within the next feAV years.
WALTER A. GALL. newly-appointed Clerk
of the House of Reps. He is 6ft. 7 in.
Long, and writes verse.
There are three sisters —all married —liv-
ing in StaAvell (Vic.), whose ages tot up to
204 years. One, Mrs. Nalder, avus 92 a few
days ago. The next. Mr°. Pcttitt. is 87;
the baby, Mrs. Clemes. is 85.
A ballot at a recent patriotic gathering in
Adelaide—the voters being mostly women—
decided that the cleverest man in >S. Aus. is
Chief Justice Murray; that lie is also the
most popular (lie beat the veteran EdAvin
Smith by only one vote) ; and that the hand-
somest is Murray's forme" law-partner, W.
A. Magarey.
In the early coal-mining days of the Illa-
Avarra district trade hinged largely upon the
eccentric movements of a boat named the
William the Fourth (the first ocean steamer
built in N. S. Wales, a.d. 1831). Conse-
quently the men Avere often in doubt at
nightfall as to whether there Avould be work
on the folloAving day. There were no steam
Avhistles to call them; but one of the pits
employed .as under-manager a deep-lunged
Geordie who, whenever he possessed reliable
information, made it
a practice, in the still-
ness of the night, to
clamber to the top of
the stack heap, like a
rooster surmounting a
dunghill, and crow:
“WaAA'k tomowah!
W a av k tomowah !
Wawk tomowah!”
After Ayliich he would
preen his wing feathers,
and strut back to his
fireside. Old hands de-
clare that when the
wind was favorable,
“the gaffer” could be
heard in the Market
Square. Wollongong,
five miles away. But
you can’t always be-
lieve the old hands
anymore than you can
the new.
McARTHUR, Lloyd's
Marine Surveyor,
Port of Hobart.
“Tot” Hall, whom nobody had ever called
Anthony James Alexander since his christ-
ening, died at Broken Hill the other day;
and thereby the big, convivial mining town
lost its best after-dinner speaker. He was
kept in practice till Bright’s disease sud-
denly cplled for him; the night before his
fatal seizure he had done brilliantly at a
send-off to his old friend Avery, who was
quitting the Silverton Tramway’s local ser-
vice to follow the late C. F. MacDonald as
secretary of the co. in Melbourne. Because
he was a good sport and arrived in Broken
Hill with the blessings of his brother’s part-
ner, Charles Kingston, the unions mostly
turned to Hall for advice —and that dated
from the time when Sleatli, Ferguson and
half a dozen others were taken to Deniliquin
25 years ago and tried there for conspiracy.
Very few of the lawyers engaged in that big
trial are left. Jack Want, who “led” for the
prisoners, and Coffey (afterwards Judge),
who talked to the jury like a father on the
other side, went long ago ; only his Honor
Backhouse, who was given a Supreme Court
commission for the job, has grown no older.
Killed in action in Egypt, Corporal Frank
Robert Morse, Camel Corps, second son of
the late Captain F. A. Morse, D. 5.0., of
Bellinger River (N.S.W.), aged 21 years.
Ho left Australia with the Ttli Light Horse,
and at The Landing was in the third boat,
and had to climb over the dead body of the
first lad to get in.
Artist Will Dyson, after buzzing about
Salisbury Plain and other English places
where material was to be picked up, now
finds himself “somewhere in France,” and a
full lieutenant. Lieut. Bill has been in the
thick of things, and finds the magnitude of
them artistically overwhelming. A long
hunt for Australian friends brought him in
touch with Australian Ted Colles —just then
in a particularly nasty hole which Fritz was
plastering day and night with blazing shells.
“O.K.’s” send-off to a person of no,
account: —
An Annus of last week announced “the death of
Sir George Clietwvnd, a well-known racehorse owner
of 30 yea rs ago. He married,” it added,
“the widow of the fourth Marquis of Hastings,
known as ‘The Pocket Aenus,’ at a time
when she was engaged to be married to Mr.
Henry (now Lord) Chaplin.” The fact of the old
matter is that the reckless young Marquis of Hast-
ings eloped with Lady Florence Paget when she was
under contract to marry -Henry Chaplin, and young
George Chetwynd married the little woman when she
was widow of the mined marquis. Henry Chaplin
was then much too wise to want her. Sir George
-Chetwynd, as I remember him in his honeymoon days,
was a good-looking young greenhorn, -whilst his tiny
bride was already a faded bit of goods. Her
notoriety had evidently been her attraction for the
boy' who had become “the marchioness’s husband."
Chetwynd was certainly no catch. lie owned race-
horses and figured scandalously. For a time he ran
after Mrs. Langtry, and caused a passing sensation
by assaulting one of bis rivals in a public place.
Subsequently he sued the Earl of Durham for £20,000
damages in a racing libel case, and came out of it
with a farthing solace for his wounded feelings. His
wife took to piety and survives the scapegrace, I
fancy. Their only' son married a Yankee heiress, who
divorced him.
BILLJIM, THE VIRTUOUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Investigating the conditions of London streets,
Scotland Yard reports highly, favorably of the Aus-
tralians, whose glamor attracts respectable girls
without any evil consequences.— Cable.
When Billjim takes his walks abroad,
With noble- pride he stalks abroad,
Though girls about him clamor;
Ilis manner is so haughty,
He chokes off Flossies naughty;
About him is a glamor.
Though all are quite selectable girls,
He much prefers respectable girls.
With head held perpendicular
Goes Billjim, most particular,
Through Waterloo’s environs.
No fear of his enslavement
To ladies of the pavement—
He doesn’t like those syrens,
Those easily collectable girls;
He asks for nice respectable girls.
Though Flossie tries to cuddle him
And with strong liquors muddle him,
He chucks her for that other—
The modest English maiden
With all the virtues laden,
And always with her mother.
They’re meek, demure, dissectable girls';
But, then, they are respectable girls.
Although these English misses are
Not backward where the kissgg are,
I think that you will find him,
Despite the fuss and petting,
Not in the least forgetting
The Kid he left behind him.
At home he has delectable girls
Who knock out those respectable girls!
N.SAV.
A. H. A.


CO
a
ru
o
5>
rn
n)
=0
&
SsfeJS-
Is®
w . ■ ■
HHS.I
* *o*4l * I *f
\ V
—
«-. V,
• ■■•'.:
n
£
sw?
■i ;
'
JUr
IJf.-
,a -
•'
; -V.
P?
t?. :
.
r.«
i m i
i
- ">
4 %
wMmStik
. «<£*. v • ■> <
: dir ■ ■■■■;.•' ■
<> - , » > - ■
<S :^\
A'i
-- •;
j rtff— ' 4
mWwii
m
fe!
: . ■■£•
.
I AWTi?; p; !
r « v *fc |
mm
mmm
J
m
y-
mm:
-
9MBINS*
ran
r » m
;
*
■?*»
"/»
Sat'S
• «ir.-v i
**r
: v,.
-
■m
m
. - • ';
swa
-<•
N
ssfs
■:mm
s* .
sllss
.
: .
‘ - ■ ■■ ~ (i :
;
■
lo£tg{K^s§
rs.
#
I
#.-■
,■ > S


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR LIFT for non-flowing; bores and where the water has receded.
Satisfactorily tested by the Water Conservation Department, Sydney. Adopted by the Government
for increasing supply at Pera Bore, Bourke. [2
SPECIALTY
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE —75 King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
KNOWLEDGE IS OF TWO KINDS.
tS o. h tte m?;4‘rAI)AMAX ROOFING
a rO^V U o#^iio ea S n r?liiS < 4 v aI TDi4ATr.T n good P° ints > sliouW send TO-DAY for a
°f the AD AM AX BOOKLET, “The Adamax Series.” It is a neatly designed
K’ M your lnformatlon u P on ADAMAX ROOFING and the other Adamax
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth & Adelaide.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ office is
responsible for the brightest idea in connec-
tion with war finance yet born in Australia.
In a brief circular to be issued to every
policy-holder John J. Garvan, the managing-
director, says:—■
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ has, as .you probably
know, shared substantially in financing the Com-
monwealth Expeditionary Forces, having subscribed
£1,250,000 to the Commonwealth War Loans. Yet
1 feel that we, as citizens of the Empire, cannot
claim to have clone enough to maintain and consoli-
date that freedom under which our country has pros-
pered, and for which the calls are specially urgent
at this juncture.
There are some 100,000 policy-holders in this office
sharing in the profits, and a vbry small contribution
by individuals amounts to a very large sum in the
aggregate. I do not suggest any cash subscription,
but if you would be prepared to devote a year’s
reversionary bonus to aiding the forces at the Front,
the result would be very appreciable.
Field-Marshal Sir Douglas Haig only a few days
ago said, “Our two most serious preoccupations at
the present* time are railways and artillery,” and
again he said, “We must have more artillery.”
If our policy-holders would agree to apply their
share of this year’s profits to the equipment of one
or more brigades of artillery, we would be able to
present our forces in the field with a most valuable
contribution. Some policy-holders like to
apply only a portion of, and others even more than,
a year’s bonus by using some of the bonus already
attaching to their policies.
It is important that the matter be dealt with
quickly, and if you are prepared to co-operate will
you please sign and return attached form to me.
Should the response of policy-holders be whole-
hearted I will be prepared to take action on their
behalf. On receipt of sufficient replies from policy-
holders the company will be asked to pay the amount
into the fund created for the purpose. This fund
will be known as the “Mutual Life and Citizens’
Artillery Fund,” and a committee of the directors
will report to you as to its disposal for the purposes
named and to the best advantage.
Thus the policy-holder is asked, not to pay
anything out of pocket, but to relinquish
for one year the profits which in ordinary
circumstances would go to make an addition
to his insurance. But the gift cannot be
made on a majority vote or anything of
that kind. Whether sufficient for the pur-
pose is available depends therefore upon the
individual policy-holder. If Brown or Smith
does not send back the authority to use the
profits in respect of his own policy for the
suggested purpose, those particular profits
cannot be thus employed. There are no
doubt many policy-holders who will be pre-
pared to relinquish more than one year’s
bonus additions. Some will think it a fair
thing to yield up to the service of the coun-
try the profits made since January 1. 1915
—the beginning of the year after the war
started. If there is unanimous approval,
the office will be able to hand over about a
quarter of a million. Putting it on the
very lowest plane, it will probably pay the
policy-holder very well to do it. A scheme
of this kind, if it is carried to a successful
issue, will unquestionably benefit the office;
and that will mean bigger business and
larger bonuses in future.
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society (Sydney) :
Added to
Written Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1904. . £65,619 £29,610 £14,227 £1586 £20,196
1905.. 70,242 27,515 15,615 1971 25,141
1906.. 76,874 31,955 18,666 2006 24,247
1907.. 82,388 33,001 18,875 2055 28,457
1908.. 93,442 29,894 24,162 562 38,824
1909.. 106,689 34,512 27,078 5805 39,294
1910.. 121,588 39,352 28,961 7388 45,887
1911. .*150,250 f 73,844 27,774 6087 42,545
1912. .*166,049 +61,070 30,482 7005 67,492
1913. .*184,834 +75,991 30,708 6862 71,273
1914. .*207,565 +83,967 33,521 8863 81,214
1915. .*230,727 +107,188 33,740 9029 80,770
1910. .*253,963 +lOB,Bll 36,145 3000 106,007
*This includes “premiums purchasing paid-up poli-
cies allocated from cash bonuses not drawn.”
+This includes “cash bonuses”—£l7,22l for 1911,
£19,512 for 1912, £22,770 for 1913, £28,317 for
1914, £33,687 for 1915, and £38,472 for 1916.
The “balance of undrawn cash bonus applied
in purchase of reversionary bonuses”—that
is, cash bonuses used to purchase paid-up
insurance—was until two or three years ago
included with the single-premium income.
Since the two have been distinguished the
bonus figures have been as follows: —•
Bonus applied
Total Bonus to Purchase
Declared. Insurance.
1914 .. .. £28,317 £26,979
1915 . . . . 33,687 31,995
1916 . . . . 38,472 37,036
The employment of so fine a proportion of
the bonus earnings to purchase more insur-
ance is to the credit of the office; for
the policy-holder says in so many words: "I
have had experience of these people, and.
instead of taking the cash they offer me, I
am content to increase my insurance with
them.” Let us deduct from the income the
£37,036 being the amount of cash-bonus, and
£216,927 remains as the true income to com-
pare with £76,874 of 10 years ago.' As the
office was established in 1579 the perform-
ance of the past 10 years is all the more
remarkable by comparison. There is no
doubt that the' big bonuses have done it.
They haven’t done anything extraordinary in
the way of capturing new business, but they
have had great influence in keeping the old
business. This supports The Bulletin’s
old idea, that the Maoriland Government
Life Office —the one general office owned and
run by the State in Australasia —might do
far better if, instead of going into expensive
competition with private offices, it settled
down as a non-canvassing office. This would
straightway double the bonuses; and if that
fact were made well known among policy-
holders, the result would be a very fair flow
of new business at practically no expense at
all. And every sixpence saved in getting
business is sixpence earned for bonuses.
Bonuses are drawn from three sources:
(1) from I’unning the business cheaper
than was provided for when the tables
of premiums were drawn up; (2) from
larger interest earnings than had been cal-
culated; (3) from such careful selection of
lives that the policy-holders go on paying
premiums for more years than had been
reckoned on. This co. has made exception-
ally fine bonus-profits from its investments.
Interest earnings (including £3OOO profit on
sales) during the year totalled £50,368,
which is equal to a shade over £5 15s. on
the mean of the insurance fund. The actu-
ary rarely assumes interest earnings of more
than 3:J p.c. when making his calculations;
and the extra 2 p.c. in this case means
nearly £17,500 of profit available for
bonuses. Very properly, .however, the £3OOO
derived from the sale of securities is not
divided among policy-holders, but is trans-
ferred to -a contingency fund, which now
amounts to £35,500. This has to protect a
more varied lot of investments than is pos-
sessed probably by any other life office in
Australia. The management has frankly
thrown overboard a lot of old ideas, and,
while keeping in mind that the society is a
trustee, has also proceeded on the principle
that profits are as welcome to insurance
policy-holders as to anybody else. Its size
has also helped. In a very large concern
some hard-and-fast rules have to be laid
down, because business involving risk may
have to be completed by a dozen or a hun-
dred men ; but in a concern of this size wide
discretion is allowable because practically
all matters of any importance can be
decided at headquarters. So the policy-
holder gets the benefit of many a sweet little
bit of business that others might turn down
because it was either too small or too un-
usual. _ Yet by far the greater part of the
funds is in the old familiar lines:—
Government stock .. £199,294 = 20.2 p.e.
Mortgages .. .. 437,970 = 44.4 „
Freeholds . . . . 148,878 = 16.1 „
Loans on Policies .. 67,654 = 6.8 ~
That leaves only 13.5 p.c. for the 'miscel-
laneous collection, including stocks and
shares in public cos., cash and outstanding
premiums.
There is one entry on the liabilities side of
the balance-sheet which would have shocked
the old insurance man who would do nothing
that his father hadn’t done first —“Deposits
bearing interest;” It is in this case a very
small amount, £5258. But why shouldn’t it
be there? And why shouldn’t it be three,
four, 20 times as big. Take this case to illus-
trate what The Bulletin said the other
day about the possibility of getting a large
sum of War Loan money through the insur-
ance offices —life-insurance offices in particu-
lar. Run the eye down the column showing
the amount added to the insurance fund year
after year—by thousands, 42, 67, 71, 81,* 80,
106. With just as much certainty as any-
thing can be promised, this co. will add an
average of at least £lOO,OOO a year to its
funds in the next three years. It will want
permanent investments for that money; and
if anybody wants temporary investments,
there can be no reason in the world why the
money should not be lent to this insurance
office for investment in the War Loan. The
co. can’t take up the loan because it hasn’t
the money, though it will have £300,000 to
invest in just such a security within "the
next three years; and the people who have
the money won’t invest it because they don’t
want permanent investments. The problem
is to bring this unused money into use in the
War Loan. It might be done, no doubt, by
direct short loans to the insurance offices;
but that always stirs up the banks, and it
may not be a good thing to antagonise them
in this national crisis. Rut if the banks
can’t suggest a plan by which their current
account money can be put to better use, and
also a plan by which people who know they
will accumulate certain sums in the next two
or three or five years can be financed to in-
vest those accumulations in advance, then the
matter will have to be taken out of their
hands.
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), carrying
on business as ship chandlers, etc., at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and elsewhere :■ —-
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
Oct., ’06.. 2,151
Oct.. ’07.. 14,389 174p.c.= 12,020 23G9 4,520
Premiums on new shares . . 1000 5,520
Oct., ’OB.. 9,142 10 p.c.= 7,468 1674 7,194
Dec. ’09.. 6,440 8J „ „ 7,468 342 5,824
Dec., ’lO.. 8,387 10 „ ~ 7,468 124 795 6,619
Dec., ’ll.. 7,551 10 „ „ 7,468 83 6,702
Premiums on new shares . . 1330 8,032
Dec., ’12.. 12,876 10 p.c. = 8,000 4876 12,908
Dec., ’13.. 12,747 10 „ ~ 9,306 3441 16,349
Premiums on-new shares . . 122 16,471
Dec., ’14.. 13,417 10 p.c. = 11,580 1837 18,308
Dec., ’15.. 21,890 15 ~,, 18,000 3890 22,198
Dec., ’16.. 25,021 15 „ ~ 18,000 7021 29,219
This co. has put a lot of spirit into its
operations. The old firm covered only
Sydney and Newcastle. Then Brisbane was
included; after that. Melbourne; next a
branch was opened in London; and during
the past year the well-established ship-
chandlery business of James Clark. Sydney
and Newcastle, has been taken over.' The
most striking thing about this last purchase
is that nothing is included among the assets
for goodwill. Either Paul and Gray got
the business at the cost of the tangible assets
or the goodwill was paid for out of an
internal reserve. Meantime, partly no doubt
because of this purchase and partly because
the co. has been putting up new bulk stores
m Sydney, the liabilities have moved off in
a hurry, though in the natural order of
things they should be reduced as prices fall
and stocks of the lately-purchased business
are sorted out. Here are six years’ figures:
.. , 1910- 1914- 1915. 1916.
Share capital. . £74,682 £120,000 £120,000 £l2O 000
Sundry creditors 47,911 45,230 37,348 87 534
Premises .. 17,775 24,575 26,825 4L375
Stock-in-trade.. 84,675 121,293 122,545 171 367
Book debts .. 26,375 38,808 36,324 30,’989
Sundries .. _ 4,245 5,617 6,713 5,987
lhe dash which the management has put
into the business can be judged by the fact
that total assets are now valued at £249,718
as against £133,070 six years ago. Stock-
in-trade has more than doubled —partly
because of the tremendous increase in prices;
partly because of the opening of the new
branches. The tremendous increase of
prices and the tendency of shipping to pay
any old thing for services .just at present
have made profit-earning easy. There is,
however, a risk —not very much perhaps—
that after the war prices will fall quickly,
and that this co. may make losses on its
heavy merchandise stocks. But you never
know in a case of this kind what the stock-
taking has been like. Certainly, the direc-
tors have had every encouragement to do
this important job on conservative lines.
Ihey pay 35 per cent, and make nearly
enough to pay another 6 p.c.; and a co.
with comparatively small reserves which
shows more than 21 p.c. is inviting trouble.
Incidentally the co. has provided only £1789
for income taxes for the year. It looks as
though there may be - a much larger slice
than that to provide for; and the more pru-
dent thing might have been to have trans-
ferred a bit of the Profit and Loss balance
to contingent account. The sheet wouldn’t
have looked quite so glittering; and it is
just as well to make sure*that—in your own
case at least—all that glitters is gold.
* * * *
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
_ „ To Ro-
Pronts. Dividends. serves Defied
Dec:, 09..£7,942 10 p.c.= £2500 £5,442 £5 974
June,’lo.. 7,033 10 ~ ~ 2571 4,462 1,512
npcpvvrpc
Dec., ’10..10,600 10 „ „ 2686 7,914 6,402
t ——x—.
Prof.
6 p.c. Ord.
June,’ll. .10,432 £260 10p.c.= 2,745 7,427 13 829
Dec., ’ll. .1 3 ’065 533 10 „ 2,765 9,767 23’596
June, 12. .11,112 Div. & Bonus 3,896 7,216 30,812
Dec., 12..13,317 „ „ 3,719 9,598 40,410
Reserves transferred to capital or
_ , distributed. £12.393 .. .. 28 017
June, 13. .11,495 600 10p.c.= 3,297 7,598 35,615
ec., IS.. 16,982 600 IS| „ „ 5,550 10,832 46,447
Dec., 14, . 23,469 1200 10 „„ 7,998 14,271 60 718
Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 20,’718
Dec., 15..20,368 1200 10p.e.= 12,000 7,168 27,886
Dee., ’16..20,394 1200 10 „„ 12,000 7,194 35,080
Gordon’s run a side-line to the. house-furnish-
ing; and the co. is reputed to have made a
lot of money out of it. The idea started with
the discovery that bad debts in the time-
payment trade are astonishingly few. Seven
years ago this commentator was invited to
compare the losses in a well-known time-
payment and an almost equally well-known
ordinary retail business, doing a rather high-
class trade. He found the losses in the latter
50 p.c. higher than in the time-payment con-
cern. Making use of its inquiry system and
its machinery for collecting instalments, this
co. started selling cash-orders. In. other
words, instead of buying goods on time-pay-
ment from Gordon’s you can buy them else-
where and pay for them by instalments to
Gordon’s. Apparently most of the orders
are used to purchase drapery; and many of
them are bought by “the missus” without
the old man’s knowledge.
Theoretically, however, the losses ought to
be heavy; and the management has all along
done the correct thing in providing for the
contingency. In the table at the top of these *
remarks this contingency fund is included
with the reserves, which means that the
amounts added to the fund have been treated
as profit. The next table shows how the
directors separate the actual profit from what
may be profit if things go right
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
n „ Account). Reserve Fund.
Dec., 1909 .. .. £5 >8 22 £2120
n me ’ •' •• 5 ’ 585 *448
Dec., 1910 . . . . 7,339 3261
June, 1911 . . . . 6j840 3592
Dec., 1911 . . . . 8,156 4909
TW 6 ’ Iqi 1 ! “ 7 ’ 212 3900
Dec., 1912 . . . . 8,618 4699
June, 1913 .. .. 7 , 2 28 4267
TW ’ lol! ’ ' ’ ' 8,022 8360
Dec., 1914 .-. .. 15,141 8328
Dec., 1915 .. .. 15,111 5257
Dec., 1916 .. .. 15,133 5261
Two years ago it was found that the losses
m practice were not anything like the losses
SnnnA 1 ?’ jt was P° ssi ble to transfer
±40,000 from the contingency fupd to capital,
making the latter ±140,000—£120,000 in ordi-
naries, and the balance 6 p.c. prefs. The
division of the profits as in the last table
may ,.~\ e taken to mean that under the worst
von d ooT nS fl 2 : 11 of last year’s profit of
£-0,394 would be lost. But even then there
would be enough left to- pay 10 p.c. comfort-
ably on the watered capital.
The co. has gone in pretty extensively for
real property; and of total assets of £209,422
only £79,215 is represented by sundry debt-
ors. Evidently the t.p. and cash-order busi-
ness isn t what it was:—
, i roper- Proper-
tw J'Z*’ StoC l C ’ Sundry ties, Stock, Sundry
?“•> Fltt ’ n gs, etc - Debtors. Dec., Fittings, etc. Debtors
IQTO ' ‘ £00,23 ° 1913 ■ • £75,999 £101,222
' ‘ «a’o!a 68,402 1914 . . 88,805 99,618
1911.. 69,889 90,630 1915.. 110 576 89 085
1912 . . 80,995 103,491 1916 . . 130’207 79’215
That doesn’t look as though profits can be
maintained. Indeed, they are not being
maintained: in 1912, for instance, the year
when the outstandings were biggest (and
™/ohbt also the turnover), the profit was
±24,429. But unquestionably the co. has
now a fine lot of assets to represent its cap-
ital. As for profits, they depend very
largely on management. It looks as though
a time of industrial .and financial stress such
as is ahead of us will not suit this co.; but
the best management is the management
which can make every wind take it to port,
and this co. may have that kind.
* * » *
The Greater ,T. D. Williams Amuse-
ment Co. (Sydney)
Towards
n „ „ Reduction
Dec Profit. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
IJIU. . £f)4. fiQl
1911. . £33,210 174p.c. = £23,603 £9707 44’987
.... Goodwill added (net), £11,523 .. 56,510
1912.. 13,471 7ip.c.== 13,538 56,577
Nominal
. , Reserves.
Assets written up, £93,939 .. 37,362
-mi a in aaa To Reserves.
1913.. 12,390 5 p.c. = 9,025 3366 40,727
Assets written up, £9472 .. 50,199
1914.. 15,865 5 p.c. = 9,025 6840 > 57,039
1910.. 11,644 64 „ „ 11,282 362 57,401
Law costs written off, £4690 . . 52 711
1916.. 11,871 4ip.c.= 8,287 3584 56,295
This was an amalgamation of cos. formed
by J. D. M illiams, a Yankee showman who
said that making money in Australia was
too easy.” Still, he didn’t leave with much,
so perhaps it only looked easy. WJien matters
had got into a dreadful tangle Williams had
to make way for W. B. Miller; and Miller
joined the Picture Combine. This Combine
is in two parts. One, called Union Theatres,
Etd., leases and runs the theatres of the
people in the Combine (Taits, West’s, Spen-
cer’s and Williams) ; the other, Australasian
lulms, Ltd., hires out pictures. These two
cos. each gave the Williams Co. 97,500 £1
shares for its interests and leased most of its
premises. Thus £195,000 of capital and re-
serves is represented by shares in the two
Combine cos.; and probably £150,000 of it is
not represented by assets that you could
bump in the dark. The two Combine cos. have
? s °Poo Williams Co. debentures
for £20,391 in payment for plant, etc. Apart
trom these shares and debentures the co. has
the following assets :
tw mm,., 1913 - 1914 - 1915. 1916.
Melba Theatre free-
hold (Melb.) . . £33,215 £33,215 £33,215 £33,215
Cash and loans . . 19,378 31,050 16,232
Plant, furniture, etc. 3,353 3,296 2 794 1 287
Book debts, etc. .. 1,352 733 ’3OO L 962
Shares in other cos. 4,500 4,500 4,500 4,500
T • , .T. ot . aL - • • £61,798 £72,794 £59,633 £57,196
Liabilities.. .. 41,768 46,545 36,832 36,903
Surplus assets . . £20,030 £26,249 £22,801 £20,293
So the co. is almost exactly where It stood
three years ago, except that it has advanced
the Combine a further £9391 more or less
secured by debentures.


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured by the British
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include; —Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Compressors; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
AC. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway
Equipments; Transformers and Converters ; Switch and Control Gear;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
nrsthpo
Mane
m
Kianchestei
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works—Traflord Park, Manchester, England.
arc.Bornto
U«« BUUIA
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital . 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. 1?. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
'THE Walsliaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
Turns all sewage into gas, which can be used for
power or for electric lighting. Destroys all noxious
odors. Gives perfectly clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
As usual, the profits would have been
better if something else had happened. Our
profits always would be better if everything
came our way. This time “the film business
is still seriously affected by the duty on
films” and “the dividends from Union
Theatres have been substantially less on
account of that co. having had to assist in
financing large film contracts, and in conse-
quence this co.’s full share of profits has not
been received.” The same story, with small
variations, is told every year; and it is
almost time the cos. in the Comliine realised
that the latter’s appetite for so-called profits
is a permanent thing. The co.’s worst in-
vestment appears to have been the Crystal
Palace. The net loss last year was £23 ; the
year before £1932. That improvement took
some of the sting out of the fall
in this co.’s share of the Combine’s
dividends —from £13,706 in 1915 to
£8287 in 1916. The co. is much over-capi-
talised, and there is the poorest sort of secur-
ity for the great bulk of the principal. But
there are going to be good profits in the
picture-business; though what might look a
good profit to one showman would be utterly
miserable to another, like this, with a heavy
goodwill loading. That’s how Greater J.D.W.
and several other of the old. concerns are
handicapped in competition with newcomers.
* * * *
The resurrected Mount Hope (N.S.W.),
which has been waiting for the extension of
the Condobolin railway to the Matakana
siding, ought to see traffic opened that far
some time this month. The country out that
way is very flat, and the unusually heavy
rains have flooded a lot of the permanent
way, which originally was too low ; hence a
long delay. Meantime the pot has been kept
boiling at the mine by the leaching of the
old tailings. New concentrating and leach-
ing plants have been erected. While adjust-
ments are being made 30 tons of 6 p.c. ore
are being handled per day at the mill and
worked up to about 22 p.c. This output will
be doubled when the mill is doing full duty,
and the leaching vats will produce about 30
tons copper per month. The total output
then should be 75 tons or more a month.
The mine has opened up very satisfactorily.
At the 270 ft. (bottom) level the payable ore
has been proved 300 ft. long; it averages,
apparently, 4ft., and is worth p.c. as an
average. The co. got to work on the under-
standing that a spur would be run out to the
main line; and, though the Government is
short of loan money, it admits that this line
is one that ought to be built, partly because
the Allies want copper badly and partly
because the Condobolin extension wants
freight badly.
* * * *
The Carpathia, Ardletlian (N.S.W.),has
been feeding its mill at Barmedman with
about 70 tons of crudes per week; and the
stock of milling ore at the mine on Feb. 28
was 872 tons. Assays are not available, but
apparently about 32 tons of crudes are re-
quired to produce a ton of concentrates,
which means a recovery of about 2 p.c.
metallic tin per ton. At the close of the
half-year (Jan. 31) the credit balance was
£3396. Carpathia paid a sixpenny on June
30, 1916, following a similar distribution in
December, 1915; and there is a sporting
chance of another very soon. There are
60,000 paids and 44,070 contribs.
The Board of Assessors constituted under
Dyason’s scheme for the mining amalgama-
tion at Bendigo has finished its job of cut-
ting up the 1,000,000 shares to be allotted
to the present cos. The scheme works out
this way —•
Allocation Live Shares in
recom- existing
mended. Companies.
No. of Shares. No. of Shares.
Carlisle .. . . 97,380 35,801
Catherine Reef . . 48,306 61,931
Clarence . . . . 23,048 32,925
Collmann and Tacchi 9,916 14.166
Constellation . . 30,200 30,200
Cornish United . . 12,168 25.350
Derby .. .. 2,268 16,200
Garden Gully . ! 51,951 33,517
Golden Age. . . . 21,854 35,249
Golden Pvke . . 28,000 28,000
Gt. Ex. Hustlers . . 38,080 .34,000
Great Northern . . 39,900 30,000
Hercules . . . . 66,939 21,455
Hustlers Reef . . 12,092 39,005
Ironbark .. . . 20,082 24,793
Johnson’s Reef .. 56,000 28,000
Koch’s Pioneer .. 42,427 48,767
Monument Hill . . 3,040 3,800
Murchison . . .. 2,060 17,163
New Argus .. 6,991 14,268
New Moon .. . . 48,000 24,000
North Johnson . . 8,023 .34,882
"Princess Dagmar . . 9,632 13,378
Sea 10,716 31,517
Sheepshead . . . . 10,898 33,025
South Garden . . 10,923 21,005
South Virginia . . 2,720 34,000
Specimen Hill . . 14,582 38,374
Suffolk United . . 10,458 18,675
United Hustlers and
Redan .. . . 18,090 34,790
Unity .. . . 13,090 31,928
Vic. Consols . . 21,830 37,000
Victory and Pandora 3,984 36,220
Virginia . . .. 49,950 27,000
Williams United . . 15,127 30,871
Windmill Hill . . 20,946 31,736
Confidence Extended. . 6,800
Pearl . . . . 4,000
Shares not allocated.. 107,529
Total . . 1,000,000 1,052,991
The old Confidence and Pearl leases, etc.,
were secured by Dyason’s party, and the
allotment is made to them. Circulars have
now been issued to shareholders in all the
cos. informing them of the proposed alloca-
tion and appealing to them to support the
scheme. Already most of the cos. have
agreed to necessary alterations of their con-
stitutions ; and if the vote on that question
counts for anything, the scheme will fly
through—the figures were 730,000, practi-
cally in favor of amalgamation, to 22,000 on
other side.
“Old ’Un” : The job that Dyason’s Bendi-
go assessment committee took in hand has
been done in a workmanlike manner. It
had to cut up 1,000,000 shares among 36
cos. having 1,052,991 live shares of their
own. Many of these latter shares had been
picked up by Dyason’s syndicate at practi-
cally liquidation prices—not to "best” any-
body, but mainly to help the syndicate in
getting its scheme through. The committee
first of all disregarded market prices, and
thus did the right thing. Each co.’s assess-
ment was based on the value of the visible
assets and the possibilities of the mines.
Otherwise it would not have been possible for
Carlisle to mop up 97,380 shares against its
present register of 35,801 shares, nor could
such a forlorn market-derelict as United
Redans have been booked for 18,000 shares
against its register of 34,790. Dyason is
offering 400,000 contribs. to the public at
Is. on application and Is. on allotment, but
to guard against possible coldness the issue
lias been underwritten, with a promoter’s
guarantee that the whole of the ss. per
share shall be paid. This arrangement is
a novelty. It means that in a no-liability
co., even if the original applicant fails to
pay more than application and allotment
money, the promoter has to toe the mark
for the other 3s. For doing that he gets
100,000 paids, or the same commission as the
underwriter. As 26,567 shares are allotted
to Dyason Proprietary Co. and the old
managers of the absorbed cos., 373,433
shares are left to go into reserve.
There has been a lot of discussion over
the water in the deal. First, promoters get
£25,000 of shares for guaranteeing £60,000.
Then the underwriters are handed £25,000
of shares for taking up £40,000 of scrip.
Next £5OOO cash goes to brokers. The Teddy
Dyason Co. gets back £l6lO cash paid to
compensate legal managers for loss of jobs,
and £6641 in shares goes to the same co. to
be cut up under agreements with the same
crowd. Abbott, of Bendigo, is already sool-
ing the local vigilants on to protest ; but if
Swinburne,- Higgins and McConochie have
consented to the prospectus, that settles the
matter. There is no denying that the
“water” is pretty extensive; but the job
lias been the most difficult as well as the
biggest of the kind ever tackled under the
Southern Cross, and it has been handled
admirably. “Water” in this case therefore
mostly represents work.
* * * *
Catheart Victory (Vic.) wants to fill the
gap left by Catheart and Catheart Central.
The difference .is that these, two dead ’uns
had their own gutter, in which gold had been
followed from the grass roots to the Langi
boundary, whereas the Victory has yet to
pick up the long-lost Hopkins run of gold.
Its first shot off No. 1 shaft was a pool-
tiling. Balipg was left to be done with tanks
and the gutter couldn’t be followed far down.
No. 2 shaft had been sunk to within 70ft. of
the bottom, when a tired lot decided to make
no more calls till the war was over. As that
is still miles off the idea in business man-
ager P. P. Cook’s head is to renew his hustle
after the western run. The richness of the
old shallow ground about Ararat makes the
quest tempting.
* * ■ , * *
Shareholders of Coheirs Long Tunnel
(Vic.) are giving new manager Miller a
chance to make good. His first job has been
to do some driving and rising at Goodwin’s
shaft, where he is on 2ft. of stuff said to be
worth from 12dwt. to 15dwt. These figures are
much more likely to be near the mark than
former estimates. While this prospecting is
going on, the Board is looking for plant to
unwater the old main shaft of the Long
Tunnel to see if it is worth while taking
over that part of the property from Hannan
and party, who got 2700 z. from 190 tons.
Considering what a fiasco were Cohen’s first
crushings, the co.’s financial position isn’t
bad. as debts are under £l2OO, with very
little outstanding in the way of unpaid calls.
Associated Northern (W.A.) last year de-
rived £27,337 from its Ivalgoorlie lease.
This was £1378 better than the pre-
vious term’s figures. The revenue from
the re-treatment of sands shrank from
£15,318 to £8481; while tributox-s’ earn-
ings went from £10,641 to £18,856.
The co.’s Ora Banda property supplied
£61,046 worth of bullion, as against £46,703
the previous year. The co.’s profit was
£13,295 ; but this was reduced to £5364 by
writing off £7931 to cover depreciation.
Edna May Consolidated’s new reef at the
21Uft. level is being represented by the bulls
as the second-best deposit so far located at
Westonia. They are not far .wrong, either ;
but there is a big gap between the best and
second-best in this instance. Consolidated’s
reef is a repetition of the boomerang-shaped
occurrences previously located in Edna May
and Central; but the length of ore body is
likely to be less than in those cases, and as
regards depth the reef is underlying strongly
into Centi-al, and eventually will prove more
valuable to that company than to Consoli-
dated. A big crushing from Consolidated
will soon be treated at the Greenfinch mill,
and as there is some good ore in the mine
the yield should put heart into supporters.
But it won’t make the mine worth the pre-
sent market price.
With the exception of the Consolidated
flutter, life for the present has gone out of
Westonia and its stocks. Deeps is still sink-
ing (in more senses than one), and if share-
holders agree to put up the proposed addi-
tional ss. per share on 90,000 shares there
will be a suspicion that all the heroes are not
at the Front.
Westralian Mines Department has decided
to publish its geological reports in the un-
learned language of the prospector ; and that
will give them some practical value for the
first time.
* # * *
By treating 15,900 tons last half-year,
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), gathered in
£24,054; and it shelled out two divs. of 6d.
They made 28s. a share paid by the co. since
Rutter Clarke got it oil the stocks. There
is still £12,000 in the cash-box to play with,
as well as a fair tonnage of ore in the
Mararoa mine. Bill Henderson’s ore reserves
ought theoretically to have given out a year
ago, but the flat make lying between Nos. 5
and 6 levels north has, with the aid of the
poorer stuff from the other levels, kept the
battery going on 30s. stone for the half-year.
Even now Henderson gives hope of another
six-months’ run, so that the co. must have
with cash and stone well on the way to 4s.
per share. Money is to be spent on the
Broncho, of which claim Henderson says
that 1800 tons treated by the tributors gave
345. per ton. His bedrock requirement is 30s.
per ton, and he is spending £l2OO in.cross-
cutting and driving to see if the big ore body
will sample up to that figure. If the Mara-
roa exercises the option it will hand over
£lOOO in cash and 10,000 paids in a new co.
to the old Broncho shareholders —that is, if
Swinburne and J. M. Higgins permit the
contemplated little float.
* * * *
The value of the minerals produced in
Bananaland during 1916 was £4,021,007, or
£696,146 more than in the previous 12 months.
The increase was due solely to enhanced
market values, copper, for instance, showing
an advance of £836,629 on the 1915 figures,
though production decreased from 19.704 tons
to 19,520 tons. During last year Cloncurry
produced red metal worth £1,149,328, an
advance of half a million. The yield of wol-
fram for the year was also smaller, although
the total value showed an increase. A heavy
drop in gold and a, slight reduction in the
coal output are also recorded, whilst gem
picking seems to have revived somewhat.
• * * *
The Vulcan, Irvinebank (Q.), has struck
something that looks good at the 1060 ft.
level. The machines have broken in for over
Bft. on an Bft. shoot; so there is a chance
that the long-lookcd-for patch has come at
last.
# * * *
Latest word from the Palmer Gold Mines
(Q.) is that water at the rate of 50,000
gallons an hour is being lifted from the
Louisa shaft. It is just the luck of the
Cooktown people to get the plant running
when the biggest wet season known is on,
and their money—much of it wasted by
Government mismanagement —is nearly-
done.
“Platman”: Treasurer Theodore told a
deputation at Cairns (Q.) that the Govern-
ment intended to open the Chillagoe smelters
even if it did not buy the line. Certainly
were these smelters blown in a lot of little
shows would be working in the Herberton.
Irvinebank and Chillag.oe districts —if prices
keep up, and the men come back from the
war. But at present, under Mr. Hughes’s
“settlement of the metal problem,” Northern
silver-lead ore costs in freight, returning
charges, etc., from £9 to £lO per ton. Any-
thing over that the miner gets. But there’s
very little ore knocking about that’s worth
more than £lO per ten.
* * * *
Dhlmayne colliery (Tas.) is being pushed
in Collins-street now that it is in Alec Pea-
cock’s office. Two things help it. First, old
warrior William Orr has had a look over the
mine and does not seem disappointed. Next,
there is a whisper that the Victorian Gov-
ernment is in the field tc buy- 100,000 tons
of this coal at 9s. 6d. per ton delivered on
the wharf at Piccaninny Point. Provided
the steamer ring does not put up prohibitive
prices, the purchase looks good; for Dal-
mayne holds that it costs 14s. to land coal
in Melbourne from Wonthaggi and 17s. from
Newcastle. There is some talk of Dalmayne
having issued 200 first-mortgage debentures
to assist in financing the show, interest at
the rate of 8 p.c., with a bonus of 50 p.c. in
paid-up shares. An additional attraction, if
a conversion be made, is that 20s. shares
will be handed over at the rate of 16s. each.
*** - *
Westralian Minister for Mines Robinson
is being inundated with suggestions for dis-
cussion at the forthcoming mining confer-
ence. If all of them were considered, the
proceedings would probably last 12 months.
An agenda committee, representative of the
mine-owners, mine workers, prospectors and
Mines Department, has been appointed to
sift those worth discussing. Among the
matters to receive consideration are : (1)
State aid to prospectors on lines similar to
that in N. S. Wales; (2) the establishment
of mining boards; (3) the price of mining
requisites to be fixed by the Government;
(4) the scale of royalties to be fixed by Act
of Parliament, and no tributes to be_let for
a shorter period than 12 months ; (5) pro-
spectors of any new gold discovery to be
granted 24 acres, all other applicants to be
restricted to 12 acres, and labor conditions
to be complied with within 14 days; and
(6) that Government assistance to prospec-
tors for the purchase of plant be on the same
terms as those given to farmers. It is sug-
gested that money advanced by the State to
needy mineowners or prospectors be written
off if the leases are afterwards abandoned.
The essence of success in all Mining and Industrial
undertakings is continuity of service, therefore use
General Electric Controllers for controlling your
motors. All G.E. Controller contact-fingers are drop
forged, having accurate dimensions, thus insuring
simultaneous break of all contacts in series. They
have increased stiffness in the arch, insuring them
against breaking. The hardness of the copper pro-
vides against excessive burning. The Australian
General Electric Company will gladly supply inform-
ation relating to these controllers, and advise the
correct application on all installations.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
•precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferrie and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Win. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt.
For rapid , and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete ; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
* * * •
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the ideal pressure pipe,
is cheap to buy and to lay, and lasts indefinitely,
with practically no cost for unkeep. Catalogue free
upon application. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.
Ltd. (head office), 57 York Street, Sydney, Fac-
tories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Victoria; and
Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * #
The Iletton Coal Co. Ltd., 56 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Tiave for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
tin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.—Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.


fleeiintfs
Es't I8!8.
Ccpen/iafSen
O M. «
HEERirie
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
TO be becomingly and cor-
rectly dressed simply
means understanding style
and adapting style to the
individual taste.
A GAGE HAT IS CORRECT STYLE,
It is the product of an organised effort
that covers the world’s style centres, and
the variety of Gage Models shown by
the Leading Millinery Establishments
enables you to find just the Hat you
want, be it Dress, Street, Outing or
Sports Hat.
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
PAULINE et CIE
Announce that on and after March 5, 1917,
they will hold their Autumn and Winter Show
of Model Hats, Frocks, Coats and Skirts, etc.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
Appointments made by letter or telephone if
desired. City 10167.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
* Sydney, March 19, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
There was a great rush to stay away from
a meeting at which a few citizens decided
to form themselves into a committee to pro-
mote the Shackleton lecture. But the stam-
pede to hear the man himself made the Town
Hall feel like an over flowing herring-
barrel. Shackleton, after almost incredible
privations and anxieties, looks as solid and
nuggetty as ever. He besran by asking any-
one at the back of the premises who couldn’t
hear him to mention it. This was a cosy-
family-party way of beginning the evening
much appreciated by the people on the hin-
terland. Hurley, a Sydney, man, whose
photographs gave us vivid pictures on the
screen, caught the doomed Endurance in
every phase of its desperate struggle in the
ice. At last a hulk and some crumpled
hoop-iron, inky-black against the dazzling
white floes, flashed across the calico.
Governor Strickland and the Cullens took .
the best seats. The Tom Knox family, who
have stalked tlie Polar heroes for the last
week or two, brought skipner Davis in their
wake and carefully distributed him amongst
four womenkind. A handsome cheque goes
to the widow of Captain Mclntosh, who
died in a blizzard and now sleeps under the
eternal snow.
Mrs. Harley, the sister of Lord French,
who has been killed by a shell in Servia, was
the matron of the Scottish Women’s Hospi-
tal established there.- Olive Kelso King, of
Sydney, is in charge of one of the ambu-
lances belonging to this hospital; and rela-
tives of this war-chauffeur are now very
anxious on her behalf.
Governor Strickland is to open the Easter
Show. It will be his last big function
before the family takes the long wet trail
to England.
The G.-G. Fairguson and his lady are
likely to put in six weeks in N. S. Wales,
with old Admiralty House as their head-
quarters. The Fairguson takes the Easter
Show in the mood of a genuine Outbacker.
He wants, officially, to be let alone, and last
year went off on a solitary jaunt amongst
the stock, chatting to the men in charge
and personally conducting his own wander-
ings. Sometimes he loses his way amongst
the prime bacon in the raw; but there’s
always a friendly bobby to put him on the
track.
It takes a genuine lover of art to give
away a dozen Hilders in these times; but
that is what Howard Hinton, a Sydney art
collector, has just done. Thanks to him,
Sydney National Gallery—formerly very
badly off for examples—row has a represen-
tative panel of the dead artist’s work. The
generous gift (the second of its kind) fol-
lowed on the reading of a persuasive article
by Bertram Stevens in the first number of
“Art in Australia.”
Local society’s cars nerfumed Pitt-street
on the first night of “Daddy Long Legs” at
the Criterion. A display of arms and bare
shoulders quite unusual in these war-times
tottered on 4in. heels up the d.c. steps.
Charles Waldron, beloved of the gallery girl,
is no broader than of yore. Perhaps one
notices his slender champagne-bottle shoul-
ders more in these days of square-built men
in khaki; but the Squaw Man’s smile is in
the old place. Like Kathlene MacDonell (a
pleasant red-haired girl), Charles was seen
rather than heard most of the evening. Ex-
cepting. of course, in the front stalls, where
Mrs. Charles could hear her leading gentle-
man’s soft asides to Judy. In the stalls
Mrs. Harry Levy achieved the dazzling glory
of one of the latest evening wraps. It was
raven black with bits of brilliant color
stitched on like a flight of butterflies. Dr.
McKay, in a box, was surrounded by misty
clouds of tulle. In one diaphanous Aurora
Australis sat Mrs. Henry Osborne, who used
to be Marjory Lord. Mrs. 11. Gordon, with
a garland of tiny buds holding her flimsy
loveliness together, was the second Venus.
Hugh Ward, in the manager’s box, had
Kathlene MacDonell’s mamma—a white-
haired elegance with a slender figure—under
his wing. The usual joyous clatter fell
down from the gallery when Grace Palotta,
with her back hair embedded in a long tulle
bow, arrived with a fsiie buxom escort, the
Misses Lamb.
There’s only one thing I’d like to ask about
the flat first act of “Daddy Long Legs.”
Where are all the orphans that ought to be
cuffing each other over the gloomy tables full
of mugs? About four orphans and a half
made a very thin crowd around desolate
islands of crockery in the John Grier home.
Kate Rooney is going back to home and
hubby in New York towards the end of
April. Just now she is joyously rusticating
with her parents while son Billy fishes hap-
pily in a pail. Kate, who is Mrs. Kirkham
on the domestic hearth, looks well and bonny,
and has a peggybag full of interesting
reminiscences.
“In three years or so I expect we'll go
back to our real home at St. Margaret’s on the
Thames,” she says. “N’York spells business
for my husband, but there’s no place so good
to get out of in summer. The poor souls
who have to stick it out sleep on the fire-
escapes. Probably they don’t sleep. They
just drag their bedding to the little plat-
form outside their windows in the great tene-
ment buildings and fight for air. As for
the babies —well, if they want a breath
they must be taken to the nearest park—and
parks are not in every other square as in
Australian cities. Australians don’t realise
What a boon their balconies and verandahs
are. Our home in England,” Kate adds,
“was one of the houses in which Dickens
lived and worked, before he settled at Gad’s
Hill, lie is said to have written ‘Nicholas
Nickleby’ in it, and not far away you can
see from our windows the famous old Ham
Common.”
Sumner Locke has gone to Boston on the
way to N’York. Lately she hopes to break
through, submarines permitting, to London.
The Tom Hughes lady has been trying
Melbourne for change of scene after the
heartbreak over son Roger’s death in France.
There’s a small grandson now to bring
smiles through the mist.
Mrs. J. 11. P. Murray, wife of the Papuan
Excellency, was in London in January. She
dared the submarine, and saw her captain-
son’s wedding with Philippa Kitchener, a
niece of K. of K.
Dr. Trinca, who used to pet the germs at
the Alfred Hospital, has taken unto himself
an English wife. In the early days of the
war “Trine,” as he was known to intimates,
left his microscopes and incubators to sail
with the Navy.
The sudden death of “Tot” Hall, Broken
Hill’s* witty lawyer, gives Australia another
lonely widow. She had two sons. One was
killed in action a few months ago; the other
is at the Front.
Nina Murdoch, poet, presswoman, pretty
girl and good sort, is going to make one
J. D. M. Brown the happiest man anywhere.
Her verses have often glowed in The Bul-
letin. The bridegroom-elect is part-owner
of Coogee Preparatory School, and in his
spare time is also a journalist and sonneteer.
But, anyway, the young pair won’t toll the
tradespeople to .start delivering goods till
the last joint of nineteen-seventeen’s tail is
out of Sight. Nina, by the way, exuded
knowledge to a boys’ school in Darlinghurst,
before she gripped the pen for keeps.
to Tlios. J. McMahon, just back
from Far Northern parts, Mrs. Warrington
Rogers is the indomitable spirit of Aus-
tralia, materialised. “She’s absolutely fear-
less, and manages her husband’s cattle-
station for month after month. It takes him
most of the time to get his mobs to market;
without a white man or woman within a
hundred miles or more, this plucky little
lady then runs the station. She and her
lubras will tackle practically any job with
stock that any man can do.” She has also
wrung some kind of respect from blacks in the
Roper River country, and they are not too
pleasant sometimes. Other stations may be
in a chronic state of guerilla warfare with
cattle-spearing natives; but Paddy’s Lagoon
has little trouble with them. Mrs. Rogers,
whose one son is at Melbourne Grammar
School, hasn’t herself been into a shop for
10 years, and only sees another white face
now and again. Yet she is keen and femi-
nine, serves up, with the help of “Princess
Polly,” dainty afternoon-tea ; and isn’t above
asking her one or two visitors in a twelve-
month “What’s the latest cut in skirts, and
are crinolines coming in?”
Gwen Nelson, a daughter of the Herbert
Nelsons, of Cremorne, is going to U.S.A. by
an early boat. It’s the movies that call.
But she won’t have to struggle for the usual
heroine’s crust till she plays the leading
lady for the film.
The Macleod girls’ “evening” at Dunve-
gan, Mosman, in aid of the 17th Battalion
Comforts Fund, is to be on the 28th. Last
week I asked you to make a note of it for
Saturday, the 24th. Scratch that out, and
write it for the Wednesday following.
Etham, Darling Point, has changed
hands. It used to be the home of the mon-
eyed Mitchells; you’ll remember one of the
Gore girls became Mrs. Willie Mitchell, and
then a widow. She has changed her name
twice, I fancy, since then. Since the Mit-
chells passed out. Etham has been the pro-
perty of Matthew Harris. A lonely man
with wife dead and both daughters married,
Sydney’s ex-Mayor recently sold the big
house at a price that gives the buyer a war-
time bargain. But it’s going to take some
weeks to pack up the bric-h-brac which the
late dame Harris gathered from the four
corners of the earth. The gems of the
art collection have been handed over, as a
gift, to the National Gallery. But there
will still be left an amazing collection of old
furniture and cabinets that date back to the
days when Queen Anne was in the school-
rooms.
IL M. Sorner, enthroned in odd moments
behind a high office desk, is about the most
interviewed man in the city. The Easter
Show secretary has probably soothed or
cheered or applied the brake to quite 100
battalion comforts ladies. They’re after
tents and space, and the rush would over-
turn the beef and pumpkin brigade if—but
that’s where the soothing syrup arrives.
Finally, about a dozen battalions have
fought their way to the Front. The light-
ing-up this year at night, a Toronto Show
scheme advocated by Mr. Somer for several
years, adds to the comforts dames 1001
questions. A frenzied dash for lamps and
desperate consultations as to price have not
produced any casualties as yet. Prodded
as to the Women’s Industries section, the
discreet secretary remarks that it should be
an improvement on past years’ exhibits.
That wax flowers and antimacassars are
not yet extinct is merely hinted.
Victoria’s dashing amateur sportswoman,
Alice McCulloch, will clear the timber on
the Sydney Show Ground this year. Mrs.
Stace and the indomitable Dolly Fogg are
booked for the same events. But Miss Fogg
had an accident lately'; and her movements
are at present painful and uncertain.
War-correspondent Martin Donohoe, miss-
ing in Roumania a while ago, now pops up
with a cheerful grin as a lieut. attached to
the British Intelligence Corps in Roumania.
The Daily Chronicle makes up the differ-
ence in his salary till the enemy is whacked.
By the way, Mrs. Donohoe’s sister, Mrs.
Clunies Ross, will kiss a third son good-bye
next month. The war calls, and there are no
daughters to sit at home with the widowed
mother.
Artist Dattilo-Rubbo is parent to a new
son, who should be very handy as a perma-
nent model in the house studio. The new
addition is labelled Mark Antony, so he’s got
something to live up to in the years ahead.
Died of wounds—the third helping—in
France, George C. S. Miller, who wore stars
in our Field Artillery. He was the only
son of the Millers who live on Mosman
heights, and his years were but 25.
After two years of caring for active-
service souls, Captain-Chaplain Tighe has
come back on the invalid list'. He lectured
to his old R.C. parish at North Sydney last
week, when he had to share honors with a
clerical brother, Padre Sydes, who got furi-
ous encores for his vocal share of the pro-
gramme. Father Sydes, before he forsook
the laity,- was a man of law in Bananaland,
and there’s always something doing when he
mounts the pulpit.
Sydney pressmen having spilt much saw-
dust at French’s Forest in building a
returned soldier’s home, the women scribblers
had to provide the pots and pans. By way
of raising £lOO .or so, they achieved a suc-
cessful show that made the Repertory
Theatre swarm like an antbed. But two
shillings was a bargain-counter price for a
programme that meandered on till the
outer suburbans had to bolt for home. To
Mrs. Fotheringhame and May Summerbelle;
Nina Murdoch and Zora Cross, for the
Muses’ rhymes ; to “Hop” for his talk and
chalk ; to Rhoda Kettlewell for dancing like
a fawn, with pretty Nmyphana Fox clutch-
ing her slim waist; to Andrew Black, Charles
Smythe, Nellie Leach, Mrs. Roy Evans (who
rushed to fill a gap in the Muses’ pageant),
a thousand encores! But not on one even-
ing!- To Colin Crane, Martinelli, George
Hawksley and Jim Burke, who trotted out
suitable ditties, the same compliments. Rena
Wallace and Blanche d’Alpuget were hon.
secs.; and Alfred Cooper (hon. treas.) is
still ready to welcome any offering, from a
new dishcloth to a plump cheque.
Green ribbons waved for St. Pat on Satur-
day, and that broth of a boy, Premier
Holman, had to face a fine hullabaloo at the
sports carnival. The concert the evening
before brought a party from Government
House, who found W. Asprey, St. Mary’s
choir-master, in charge. But the Town Hall
isn’t large enough for St. Pat’s evening-out,
and next year the committee may hire the
Domain.
Captain Piggot, one of the notable pilots
of the Torres Strait shipping route, returned
to Sydney on Friday, after being reported
drowned in one of the North Sea trawlers.
As a matter of fact he was one of the saved
on a boat that met the enemy, and he
comes back badly hurt to tell the story of
his rescue and the loss of many of his crew.
Dora Ohlfsen, back in her Rome studio,
lias just finished “In Eternal Remembrance,”
a medal commemorative of the Anzacs of
Gallipoli. On one side the figure of Aus-
tralia bends to kiss her fallen son. The
handsome Miss Alix Simpson, who posed for
Australia, is an English rose noted in Rome
for her heauty.
Eleanor Cameron, till lately a political
organiser here and in Vic., made her vows to
Andrew Glencross at the Phillip-street kirk
on Wednesday night. The fair Eleanor was
radiant in wreath and veil and a shell-
colored train; but a brace of bridesmaids
must have chosen their-colors in the early
daylight. Anyhow, they clashed in blue and
mauve. The wedding was partly political,
aud Sydney Smith, ex-Minister for Pump-
kins, was the bride’s guide and give-away at
the church ceremony. Eleanor’s father was
an old politician, too —Angus, of Wavqrley.
A well-known Sydney woman. Mrs. Alex-
ander, died last month in London, at the
over-ripe age of 90. She was a sister of the
late Saul Samuel, one-time Agent-General
for N. S. Wales, and an aunt of the present
Baronet Edward Samuel. Very many years
ago Mrs. Alexander was a notable figure
in Sydney society. That Lyons who built
Lyons Terrace was a near relative.
The F. 11. Snows, of Adelaide, are getting
some little consolation out of the war which
knocked their metal-export trade to pieces.
Son Wilfrid, who had been a clerk in the
Sydney branch of the business, went to Eng-
land to join the Flying Corps when there
was no Flying Corps to join in Australia;
and last week a cable told that he had been
awarded the Military Cross and promoted to
the rank of captain. Father got the glad
news while he was sampling Kosciusko.
North Sydney girls are- engineering a
bazaar in aid- of the Y.M.C.A. Field Fund.
Cafe Franeais, George-street (city) ; March
27. Engineer-in-chief, Addie Marr.
At the Women Painters’ show in the Edu-
cation Buildings E. E. Middleton’s most
ambitious effort, “The Coming Storm,” is
one of the best things in a rather weak lot.
Mrs. A. Iledley Parsons and her unrelated
namesake, Mrs. A. M. Parsons, are, with
Alice Norton (Mrs. A. Stephens, now resi-
dent in AVestralia), in the front row. Maude
Russell, forging ahead, is responsible for a
delicate group of water-colors. Mabel Bar-
ling’s tigers are fatter than of old. Perhaps
Bradley’s Head suits them better than Moore
Park. Lucie Peapes deserves lion, mention
for a charming tabloid in water-colors —old
St. John’s Church, Parramatta. Ruby
Winckler, strong and original, shows some
illustrations of the Odyssey—-not for sale.
If the hanging committee had thrown out
the too-crude amateurs the standard of the
show would have been higher. Why include
in a serious art show the experiments of the
eldest daughter at a young ladies’ seminary V
The musical Cherniavskys will shake their
amaranthine locks in this city in a couple
of months. Lately, they’ve been bowing to
loud applause in U.S.A., and shaking the
Four Hundred of N’York by the diamond-
circled fingers.
The Red Cross toy-makers at Ash-street,
City, can do with a lot of things, but they
specially would like the empty spools of
typewriter ribbons (they make splendid
wheels) and w r orn-out circular erasers that
mostly find their way to the w.p.b. Here’s
where the operators of type machines can
give a hand without effort.
The Vagabonds Club mentions in paren-
theses that it has already raised £lOOO for
war funds, and is going to double that if
the enemy doesn’t get on the run too quickly.
As a start for the second thou, it opens a
show in the Repertory on March 24. • Pro-
ceeds of “What Would a Gentleman Do?”
go to the N. S. Wales Fire Brigades’ Red
Cross Society.
In the early stages of the Big Noise,
“Kelly” Raymond Wise left off tending his
flocks at Gunnedah to help get the Turk off
Gallipoli. Then he went to France, became
a star-bearer in a border regiment, and has
now acquired a Military Cross. His proud
parents, the G. E. Wises, live at Croydon.
There’s to be a cafd chantant at the Ritz,
Cremorne, on March 29. Manager Ben
Fuller is lending some of his talent. Syd
Macdonald, Harry Thomas and Rita Raine
have also promised to be there. It’s to help
the Cause.
Swarms of Osbornes and other woolly
folk _ are camped at the Australia, and
they’re likely to stay without much pressing
for the Pumpkin and Horse carnival.
The poor war babies ! One blossomed in
the daily-paper birth notices this week as
Beatty Jutland. Still, it might have been
worse. If he had landed a little sooner he
might have been branded Protopopoff Bag-
dad. And some parents wonder why their
children take the wrong turning!
You can’t get ahead of the Army Service
Corps dames, unless you hop out of bed the
week before last. They’ve captured Lady
Helen to sip tea in their tent during the
Easter Show. You can almost hear the rush
of Mrs. Subbubs to taste the A.S.C. brew,
and pay up for the privilege on that par-
ticular afternoon.
Mrs. George Lee, wife of the new District
Commandant, is one of the genial, motherly
women who will put a pleasant top to the
military dames’ socks-and-chocolate parties.
Popular in Queensland, she effervesces with
the hearty kindliness that melts all sorts of
social glaciers.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
%y LTD
JEWELLERS.
THE “SERVICE” WATCH.
LUMINOUS HANDS
AND FIGURES.
SPECIAL VALUE
£3-3-0
53
S 3
75)
/
it*
GD
WITH STRONG PIGSKIN LEATHER STRAP
AND SILVER BUCKLE.
WITH STRONG PIGSKIN LEATHER STRAP
WITH COVERED METAL CAP.
A Strong. Reliable Silver Wristlet Watch, with High-grade Lever
Movement, Luminous Hands and Figures, making the time plainly visible
at night.
FORWARDED ON APPROVAL
IF DESIRED.
FIVE PER CENT. CASH
DISCOUNT.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROB. (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W.
drt
Take Photos
with the
Folding Ensign
for Your Friends
at the Front.
If you have a friend at the Front you cannot do him a better service than
to take photos, of his wife, his children, his home, and send them to him.
He may not have seen them for six or twelve months, or even longer. Think
of the pleasure that a photo of them, taken in their own home, amid the
surroundings that he loves, will give him.
If you are not a photographer, become one now ; start with the grand
Folding Ensign illustrated here. For Films, it can be loaded and unloaded
in daylight. Takes pictures x 4} in. Price £2/10/-
Call and see it, or, if you live out of town, send for our new, illustrated
Catalogue—it will be posted to any address.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
and Other Metal Workers can depend on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons' Metallurgical and Assay Department, 59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our Traveller will call on you.
IT?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St. # 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories and Laboratories, Sydney.
m
The Joy of ‘playing’
the
Aeolian -V ocalion
Is an added pleasure in Gramophonic
reproduction that hitherto remained dor-
mant. There is no more need to accept
the limitations of record taking or un-
scientific developers of tone, for the
wonderful GRADUOLA, or flexible
throat of the Aeolian-Vocalion enables
you to reflect your own feeling in any
record without changing the quality of
tone or the artist’s technique, but gradu-
ating it, shading it, softening it, giving
it by a single hand pressure, contrast,
colour, the quality of life
An Invitation
WE ARE ANXIOUS THAT ALL MUSIC
LOVERS SHALL KNOW BY PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE WHAT THE VOCALION
CAN DO. WE CANNOT TRANSLATE
INTO WORDS ITS TONAL QUALITIES.
WE THEREFORE INVITE YOU AND
YOUR FRIENDS TO VISIT OUR SHOW-
ROOMS AND HEAR HOW SWEETLY IT
BRINGS OUT THE BURIED BEAUTIES
THAT RECORDS WERE NOT KNOWN
TO POSSESS.
An illustrated Booklet sent upon request,
showing the many beautiful styles, which
compare favourably in price with other
makes.
Send Us This Coupon
with your name and address, and we will mail an inter-
esting descriptive Catalog, showing the easy terms of
payment that will place a Vocation in your Home with-
out delay.
Please send me Catalog B describing the 1 ocalion as
advertised in Bulletin
Xame
Address
The Pianola Company,
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
436 Queen Street, BRISBANE;
88 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE,


Farmer’s Tailoring.
Announcing; the Autumn Materials.
Specialty Range Suits to Order at &5 ss.
—made from All-Wool Scotch and Irish Tweeds in the
New Season’s Colorings and Designs. Handmade
throughout.
Higher-grade make Worsted, Homespun and Cheviot
1 weed Suits. . with the cut and finish exclusive to
Fanner s, obtainable from Six to Seven Guineas.
Finest-quality Indigo Serge
absolutely reliable), from Five
Suits (dye guaranteed
to Seven Guineas.
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets i
Sydney
We Pay the Carriage.
MvuvmvtshM
h
KING OF ALL METAL POLISHES
Keeps automobile fittings new and makes
all metals a pleasure to look at. The only
safe polish for aluminum. Made of the
finest oils—no acid or ammonia used.
Does the work quiokly and gives a last-
ing polish. Sold in two size oans by all
Grocery, Hardware and Drug Stores.
L Look for the Photo on Can
45h
A £l4 Machine
Drawers,
£8 10$.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
Amusements.
UEK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOCBNE.
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 21.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Saucy and
Piquant Musical Play,
CANARY COTTAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TH EA TR E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
• Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
•T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their new
English Comedy Co. in
fair and warmish.
A Play of Temperature and Temperament.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
DltlN CESS’S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE
1 Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
THE GONSALEZ OPIiRA CO.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), LUCIA.
FRIDAY, FAUST.
SATURDAY, ERNANI.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE!
Lessees Messrs. BAILEY k GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
For the First Time in Australia.
J. & N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY COMPANY in
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A Play of Mirth and Morals
by Winchell Smith and John E. Hazzard.
Box Plan Allan’s.
THE FINEST SHOW AT St! HILDA,
1 MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, 8.30.
. DANDIES.
BEST COMEDIANS. BEST SINGING.
The Prices, like the Dandies, are Popular.
the auditorium, melbo r r n e.
1 Lessees J. & n. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS.
The only entertainment of its kind that has toured
the universe.
3/-, 21-/',.
Box Plan at Allan's.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, March 19, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Lady Helen gave an informal tea-party last
Tuesday at the big grey house, and the re-
turned nurses, guests-in-chief, arrived in
their dark grey uniforms with the dull
bronze badges arid buttons, crowns and stars.
Some of the girls are majors, captains and
lieutenants. The G.-G. piloted parties of
them all over Government House, and showed
them his collections of Australian gems and
pictures and woods. The hostess had tea set
in the big dining-room and music was laid on
in the drawing-room. Leslie Gage, Boffard,
Anne Williams, Betty Paterson and Ger-
trude Summerhayes managed the programme
between them.
The P’ran branch of the A.N.A. is at
present feeling not a bit like P'ran is sup-
posed to feel, having just acquired the Stan-
ley infant (Lyulph Henry Victor Owen) as
a life honorary member.
Lesley Madden starts her venture in the
underwear line about Easter, having taken
the rooms over Webb’s, where the Burberry
girls did such a roaring trade in hats.
, The Fred Douglass family, which is inter-
ested in the Geelong ’Tiser, has had a taste
of the horrors of war without an; of the
after-effects. The other day Lieut. Monte
Douglass, one of the two eligible sons on
service, was reported .wounded- —his back
was hurt and a leg was gone. After an
agonised interval another cable came to say
:hat the leg was in its proper place, and there
was nothing the matter with Monte’s back.
The misreported young man left Victoria
with the magnificent sth Battalion and went
through Gallipoli. Afterwards he took a
commission in the British army and has
been in France nearly ever since.
Mrs. Stewart Balmain, who was Alison
Fairbairn, has moved away from her Eng-
lish coast town, and is now living at Burn-
ham Beeches, one of England’s beauty spots,
while hubby pounds the Hun in France. He
lost a life-long friend in General Duncan
Glassfurd, who was killed in France some
time back.
Melbourne Grammar “Captain,” Ken
Clarke, has handed his school job over to
Herring, and goes into Maribyrnong camp
next week. Ken is the younger son of the
Rutter Clarkes. They lately drifted back
from India, whither their elder boy had been
invalided from one of the Fronts.
Roy Officer, a school champion bowler and
runner, has exchanged his cricketing flannels
for khaki. The 19-year-old recruit is of the
third generation of the squattocracy. Dad
is with the heads of Dalgety’s.
The Alliance Frangaise is to have a party
at the Independent Hall on March 27.
Coffee, music, French playlets and French
pastry.
Mrs. Clifton gave a Bananaland party at
her flat last week. Mrs. Parker and the
two pretty Piper girls were there. They
are all Northerners, though the Charters
Towers Pipers have been perched in Syd-
ney for some time between spells of travel.
Squatter John McArthur, who died so
suddenly at the Oriental Hotel last week,
was married twice. His widow was Etta
Ferguson, a first cousin, now left at Men-
ingoort station, in Camperdown. His first
wife was also a first cousin. She was
Bessie McLean, a daughter of the fine old
captain who brought the old Ozone out from
England. _ The McArthurs were clannish in
their marriages. Callum McArthur, the
brother of John, married a sister of Bessie
McLean. He is still living in the Western
District. The brothers at different times
contested the same seat in Parliament. John
was a serious politician and at his election
meetings talked politics to his people. When-
ever he won it was by a small margin. Cal-
lum’s method was to gather his folk together
and tell a jolly story or turn on a gramo-
phone. When he got home it was by a
majority of thousands.
There was a general meeting at the Aus-
tral Salon last week with the Madden dame
presiding. This was an event, for she has
been quite out of the run of social duties
since her illness. Though somewhat pale,
she managed quite in the old style, inspect-
ing the room through an eyeglass on a rod
while the versatile and immortal Claude
Hall managed a delectable programme of
music.
Toorak finds life hideously dull these
times, and if it were not for rest-home work
the girls whose job is killing time would be
quite desperate. A lot of them have stam-
peded into hospitals as trainees, the latest
recruit being Kath Austen, of the Western
District wool clan, a sporting type who
“shoved” her own car and went in for golf
before she started scrubbing wards.
The dignified head of. Melbourne Grammar
lately entertained a dozen small guests at
afternoon milk, and blue-capped scholars,
peeping through the fence, stared wildlv at
seeing “Lofty,” his eyes bandaged, sprinting
across the turf in pursuit of a flying, shriek-
ing band of youngsters, which included Lady
Helen's small niece, nephew Veronica and
Basil Blackwood.
Pauline Curran, the Hobart beauty who
came oyer with her mother for the Autumn
races, is still to be seen in the lounge at
Menzies’ at black-coffee time. In an English
tailor-made, with a big ivory collar, she was
one of the dreams at Flemington. Two
admirers attended her throughout the entire
season in Hobart. One was the attractive
khaki-clad Russian who takes observations
from the steps of the Athenseum Club. His
rival was a prominent Sydney man.
The shapely Philip Russell dame, who
turned a lively puce with excitement when
Harriet Graham won the Australian Cup,
was easily the best-turned-out matron on the
lawn in filmy black, with white furs and a
silver-laced toque of the Russian persuasion.
The frocking at the Scobie Mackinnon
matron’s garden-party was a trifle sombre,
on the whole. The weather was partly to
blame, and, besides, those who possessed
them wished to wear their new winter gowns.
A mere handful of heroines ventured out in
summery attire, two maidens only being
brave enough to appear in white. ' It was
distinctly a “coat and skirt” show.
The Foster district is mighty proud of its
recent Queen carnival. There were three
Queens —one each for Centre, South * and
East Gippsland. “South” headed the poll,
and -Mrs. Wilson, a doctor’s wife, was
crowned gloriously in the Foster Show
Grounds in a blaze of electric light. There
was tremendous excitement, as the affair
realised over £l5OO for the patriotic funds.
The High Chamberlain got so excited and
backed so furiously before the Queen that he
receded clear off the platform behind the
throne. The upset dignitary did not mind
the shin-and-elbow bruises so much; his chief
concern was about the injury done to the
lovely silk stockings which had been lent to
him by a woman. A prime mover in the
whole affair was Nicol, owner of Rael Loein,
one of the hot favorites that lost at Fleming-
ton because its nose was not long enough.
Its puzzling name —well, stand it on its
head and you will see what it means. Mrs.
Rael Nicol acted as Mistress of the Robes.
The Ancient Marinesses, who are to run
the kiosk outside the Town Hall on Sailors’
Day (23rd), are appealing for gifts for sale.
Address to the President of the A. M. Ladies
Committee at the Town Hail. Such things
as pipes, tobacco, books and socks are sug-
gested; but any old thing worth buying—
even soiled banknotes —will be received with
thanks.
Shackleton talked in the Auditorium on
Friday night. He is a fine, muscular young
man whose shoulders strain at the seams of
his “shore clothes” as he moves about with
a soft, padding walk. He spoke in a brusque
but easy and convincing manner. Half-way
through he said, “We’ll have a spell for five
minutes now —eh? —so that we may all
move about—see? What d’you think?”
Then lie slipped down into the audience and
men crowded round to shake hands with
him.
The Elenara variety show at Sandring-
ham last week netted 350 guineas for the
Red Cross, and young Jimmy Gatehouse and
his wife (she was one of the Geelong Aus-
tins) deserve a cordial vote of thanks for
lending their grounds. Lady Helen made
a semi-royal progress round the various
stalls, escorted by Arthur Robinson and a
genthelp.
Adelaide’s pickings:—
The publishers of her Ex.'s “Belgium Book,”
Hussey and Gillingham, have handed a cheque for
£375 to the Belgian Relief Fund, being the gross
proceeds of the sale of half the copies. The other
half are still available. Official statistics show that
South Aus. has contributed £647,695 to this and
other patriotic funds. The Soldiers’ Fund heads the
list with £330,000, the Belgian Fund being next
with £125,000.
Incidentally, her Ex., with her son and Miss
Macaulay, is still the guest of the H. H. Duttons at
1 ictor Harbor, where the Governor joined the party
for the last week-end. Lady Galway is taking an
“off” time from engagements till the end of the
summer brings sojourners back from the sea and the
hills, when Society will hang out the old sign: “Busi-
ness as usual.” .
Captain Blackburn, V.C., has been given his dis-
charge, and after Easter will become busy in the
pursuit of Costs as a partner in the firm of Fenn
and Hardy. There is another partnership to be
formed in connection with the house —but Captain
Blackburn and Miss Rose Kelly will attend to that.
Mrs. H. Bickford has given another armed aero-
plane to the British Government, With the request
that it shall be known as the “Mount Lofty.” It
is v only a few months since she made a similar gift
and also rolled along a motor-ambulance for the
use of Australian troops abroad. Good patriot!
Speaking of motor-ambuiances reminds me that C. T.
Bray has gone back to the Front. He got a spell
home not many weeks ago after putting in a lot of
strenuous work for the British and French Red Cross
at Verdun and elsewhere. He is convinced that to
cope adequately with the wounded every man who
can drive a car is needed over there. No doubt he’s
right, but it's very pleasant here, and there’s not
a bit of mud on the roads just now.
G. H. Wilkins, who spent three years with the
Arctic Expedition under Stefansson, is back in Adel-
aide. He started for the North as photographer to
the expedition, and returned as second in command.
Until April he is under the orders of the Canadian
Naval Service Department ; after that he hopes to
get on the trail of the Huns.
The Trench Comforts Shop, opened on Friday,
nominally at noon but really a .good deal earlier,
owing to the importunities of buyers who arrived
at 10 and threatened to crowd out the Arcade. “The
best home produce at market prices” is the motto;
expenses will be scraped to a minimum; and the
profits will be spent on gladdening Australians on
service. The local A.C.F. has also added to itself
ja men’s auxiliary, which has made the supply of
tobacco and cigarettes to S. Australians its special
business. The latter movement is the direct out-
■ come of Mr. Budden’s visit.
The Cheer-Up Society has added to its possessions
a motor-carrier, whose chief use will be for the
collector pf “cabbage patch” gifts. A cabbage patch,
by the way, is a garden wherein you grow vegetables
to feed soldiers at the Cheer-Up Hut. The idea has
spread wildly, and a children’s branch is in process
of formation. The same Cheer-Up Society ran a
cafe chantant in the Town Hall on Friday evening-
in aid of its funds.
Miss de Lissa, the kindergarten expert, has left
for Sydney on the way to her appointment in Eng-
land. Tucked amongst her luggage is an honorary
commission to inquire into educational matters in
Canada and the United States.
, The Tuesday Club is running a “Thrift Week,” and
we’ve all decided to go without furs and even race
frocks for as long as the week lasts.
Pianist Brewster Jones's sister was married last
week to Harry Armstrong. She is a pretty girl,
with misty brown hair, and has a helping of her
brother’s musical talent.
Women’s branches of the Agricultural Bureau are.
to be established. They will be governed by the
same rules as the men’s branches and will have the
same privileges. The new opportunity comes simul-
taneously with an offer of £5OO for a scheme to
wipe out the mice pest in wheat stacks, provided
the way is “economically practicable.” The Wheat
Harvest Board has made the offer.
Marie Tempest, looking like a Watteau
heroine gowned by Wirth, and leading-man
Graham Brown were boxed with Mrs. George
Tallis on the opening night of “Fair and
Warmer” at the Royal. Marie was more in-
terested in the audience than the play. Not
once was she seen to
smile at the silly
business on the
stage, but every
now and then a roar
of laughter from
the house would
cause her to look
round with quick
interest and a
slightly puzzled ex-
pression. O b v i-
ously she was won-
dering what on
earth there was to
laugh at.
A SILHOUETTE
IN THE BOX.
Marie Tempest
with an eye on
the audience.
Pianiste Nellie Billings (likewise cooings)
is to marry barrister Frank Maldon Robb.
The announcement has gone forth in the con-
ventional way.
Arthurine D. Tacey has murmured “Yes”
to the appeal of Reuben Le Lievre, of Adel-
aide. He is the son of the Le Lievres, of
near Dookie, and she is the daughter of the
Ernest Taceys, of the same town.
What sticklers for propriety some people
are! A Melbourne man of some note, who
was divorced in a blaze of publicity and a
shower of sentimental letters from the lady
co-re., is to lead her to the altar. The
tender news is broken to the press by means
of neatly-typed slips beginning, “An engage-
ment is announced.” I thought at first the
sweet tidings referred to two shy young-
unknowns who were facing the world for
the first time.
Another Anzac romance culminated in the
marriage of pretty Pattie Dobbin, daughter
of late Police-Magistrate Dobbin, of Wah-
gunyah, and dapper little solicitor-soldier
Reggie Hayes, of Mentone. They met at the
base hospital as nurse and patient.
The obliging stork has deposited a dew
boy on the English doorstep of the Clive
Fairbairns. (Mrs. Clive is Marjorie, voung-
est daughter of Edmund Jowett.) ‘ Clive
is doing his bit as lieutenant in the Grena-
dier Guards, and is said to have acquired a
beautiful mannah—the sort that drops from
Heaven on to a British Guardsman.
The G.-G. will open the memorial exhibi-
tion of pictures by the late -T. .J. Ililder on
Monday, March 2G, at the new Fine Art
Galleries, run by expert Gill. These premises
are the old German club in Alfred-place, at'
the back of Collins-street. Melba took a
great interest in the Gill project before she
left.
Mrs. Rothwell is making a good recovery
from the serious accident of a stove
bursting in her face, and there is no fear
now of disfigurement or blindness. (Hie
lady is coming out of the ordeal with a
new rose-leaf complexion, a skin like a
baby’s, and eyes as bright as ever. But the
doctor is shutting her up in semi-darkQess
for a further few weeks.
Betty Paterson is airing her nice young
voice in select circles just now. The other
day she poured a collection of old Scotch
songs into the ears of the G.-G. and his lady
at Government House. The dear old things
w'ere politely enraptured, and practically
asked the youngster to fill ’em up again.
Last Monday Betty took her soprani to the
Austral Salon and let it soar in “One Fine
Day” from “Butterfly” and a bracket of old
English and haggis airs. A fetching Maori-
land contralto, Peggy Sec-combe, melodiously
filled in the hiatus between Betty’s offerings.
You should see the Italians off-stage. No
frowns and scowls out of business hours.
The Best Fed have taken them in again and
are feeding and wining them lavishly. Mrs.
Polman gave a big initial reception party at
the Australia last Thursday. A great round
table strewn with purple asters was placed
in the supper-room and the food was whisked
about by waiters, the usual waitress-girls
being-all out on strike. The Italians showed
off by making speeches in English. Balboni
bit off some carefully rehearsed Australian
with his white teeth. The exquisite
Scanuiz/.i, wearing a green jade ring and an
envious air, murmured that he sang English
but did not spik it. Tenor Lois jumped up
excitedly and exclaimed, “Oompagnie—l
thank you !” and promptly collapsed. Kirby
sang a song from the balcony to Ldis’s
accompaniment. Mrs. Polman wore black
and gold and an ecstatic smile. Mrs. Donga],
the other hostess, wore, checks and a paddy-
green hat. Mrs. Springthorpe, Mrs. John-
stone, and Mrs. Monash were at the board ;
and n. string orchestra conducted by Ricardi
played the accompaniments to the soup and
spaghetti.
Dark stories are floating round to the
effect that Gregan McMahon is going ’ to
drown liis sorrows in the undertaking busi-
ness. Apparently the rumors have reached
Trafalgar, for the actor has received from
that obscure village a written offer to ex-
change a hearse for £2l. The cart, it is
stated, has “glass sides” with “a very good
under-carriage,” but the “body wants clean-
ing and repainting.” McMahon, it is said,
is favorably considering the offer, and will
probably go into partnership with his friend
Hugh McCrae. The tall poet reckons that
they will be able to put the hearse to lucra-
tive use at the forthcoming Federal elections.
Melba sends a glad coo-ee. It ripples
from California, where she is staying with
the millionaire Crockers, whose house is a
miniature Palace of Versailles crammed with
art treasures. She was giving a concert in
Los Angeles, with pianist Ruby Gray and
Julius Knight assisting, and had cheered
Marie Tempest on her way hither with a
farewell luncheon. The singer- was soon mov-
ing south to meet her friend Lady Susan
Fitzclarence.
The Italians have attached as official in-
terpreter Mr. Crosetto, a young man who
has been five years in Australia and is in-
tensely proud of his absorption of the lan-
guage. Crosetto is a severe trial to Walter
Kirby, who used to interpret the opera
singers’ drink, food and smoke orders at all
sorts of well-furnished sprees. Crosetto is
the one who’s being dined and wined this
time.
Vivacious little Irma Caron is being ten-
dered a farewell concert on Thursday, 29th,
at the Masonic Hall, prior to her departure
for “the East.” The Gaud Mayoral couple
have promised to be there, and the members
of the Stock Exchange are supporting the
send-off. Irma will appear in several oper-
atic character numbers.
Tours sincerely, JOHANNA.


*
♦ « ♦
* *
%
G>
1
IMPERIAL
a
% *
% %
p;
* ♦
• %
% %
* *
* a
♦ i
k ♦
i «
♦ ♦
i ♦
♦ * 4
♦ s
% '
% *
Hi
♦ #
• v *
* V *
k % V \
' %
i .


sw
This is Clarence
Cuthbert Clay,
lie shaves himself
Nine times a day.
For what is pain to
other men
Is joy to him —he
has a PENN!
a»<
You Can Scrape Your Face
with any old Razor. A rapid, easy, clean shave— Shaving
Satisfaction—requires a blade that shaves.
Venn Blades are made scientifically right. Each Blade,
made of Sheffield Steel, is separately tempered, ground!
honed and tested —made to shave.
7/6
pENN
with 5 Blades
SAFETY
That Shave
7/6
is the means of using the blades right—proper balance,
proper weight, proper shaving angle. Has a smooth guard
—not a harrow. t
SATISFACTION OR MONEY BACK.
Penn Safety Razor with 5 Blades that shave costs 7/6.
Positively gives BEAL shaves—Shaving Satisfaction—or
your 7/6 back. You can’t lose, and you CAN GET shaving
Satisfaction with Penn Razor and Blades. Go right to your
Dealer and get one—or, if he does not have it, send us 7/6
to-day and we’ll send one.
A. C. PENN, Inc.,
420 George St.,
SYDNEY.
A Signal Success
King George IV
The* TOP-NOTCH"Scotch.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Silas Snell”: A competition of curious
funerals is it ? Well, here’s a faithful chronicle.
George Arthur was demonstrating at great
expense that the alleged rich leaders in the
hills beyond Oassilis (which is in the wild waste
between Bairnsdale and Omeo) are not worth a
bean, and one day, doing the last 10 miles of a woeful
jaunt per hoof, he was suddenly confronted by a
laden pack-mule trotting down the track entirely
on its own. The mule’s burden was a curious one,
a narrow, oblong box Oft. in length, 16in. deep
and 2 ft. across. George Arthur made a heroic,
middle-aged effort to intercept the lone hybrid ; but
the neddy shied off, climbed some piled butts, and
scuttled into the bush, whereupon George resumed
his own journey. About three-quarters of an. hour
further nor’-west, the weary wayfarer encountered
a blaspheming bushman with a gun and an expres-
sion of utter loathing. “Hi, you!” cried the
stranger. “Have you met a fune 1 anywhere atween
here and the stone road ?” The question called for
no thought. “No,” said George definitely. “You
quite sure ?” George was positive. . It occurred to
him that he would recognise a funeral at a glance,
and a funeral in that immense loneliness was not a
thing to escape attention. The man with the gun
explained: “Me name’s Owner. I’ve had a funeral
bolt on me. You see, my missus died yes’day
mornin’, ’n’ I was takin’ her down to Chapel Flat
ter bury, an’ leavin’ the mu-el by the crick while
I got a drink, the cow took a contrary sort of fit,
’n’ broke fer the scrub. I’ve bin after him ever
since. I’ve got to get him —he’s off with me
missus.” Then George understood—the laden pack-
mule was Mrs. Owner’s funeral.
WHISKERY BILL ADAPTS THE
“TANK” IDEA TO HIS OWN NEEDS.
“Tarn O’Shanter” : I cast, my vote against
“Lowan” (B. 22/2/’l7) for saying that “Spraggs’s”
70-horse team would pull the intestines out of any
waggon—on the bla_k-soil plains, at any rate—if
the ground is boggy. When the surface is in that
condition much of Prince’s and Bowler’s energy is
wasted in dragging themselves up by the roots and
keeping their equilibrium. Late in 1911 the
Hay-Ivanhoe mail coach stopped dead in the mud
near Booligal, and eight heavy draught horses were
sent out to induce her to come home. They had
several fierce arguments before she consented, but
they didn't even pull her frail quill out. Horses
won't pull worth a peanut in the mud. They are
too excitable.
HIS FLOATING POPULATION.
HIS REVERENCE: “It’s no good, Pat. Ye
can’t drown your troubles wid drink."
P AT: “Faith, ye have it, yer Riverence. t
can’t! Sure, the divils can shwim!"
“Bex” : “Tap’s” method of getting a run-
ning fire in stubble (B. 8/2/’l7) would be lovely if
it were practicable. I have been plugging along in
the Mallee for some years, and I have not yet seen
anyone adopt the plan of attaching a roller under
the comb for the purpose of getting a running burn;
but I was the first hereabouts to introduce the plan
of dragging a pole behind the stripper to insure a
better job with the fire rake. In case any new
hands may be tempted to try “Tap’s” method, I
would say that in an eight- or nine-bushel crop a
running fire is a practical impossibility unless you
strike a day when the ventilators of Sheol are open.
Further, any roller that is “from 6in. to a foot off.
the ground” will have no effect on the stubble at
all. The roller must hit the stubble at the ground-
line to be of any use.
* * * *
“H.L.N.”: “Eryander” (B. 1/3/T7) seems
surprised to hear of a centipede 12in. in length. I
can go one even better. My brother sent me a speci-
men that he had killed on St. George’s Island, Ber-
muda, which measured 14iin. from head to tail, not
including its pincers, which went five-eighths of an
inch. After being stung by one of these horrors you
wish earnestly for 24 hours that your grandmother
had been eaten by cannibals in her infancy. The
best soother of the pain is tobacco juice.
* * * *
“E.S.S.” : Can’t we get some decent names
for our birds—names that the small boy and the
old man and the poet can catch on to and joy in?
No poet in creation could enthuse about the blue-
vented parrakeet, or the yellow-bellied fig-bird, or
the white-shouldered caterpillar-eater, or the grey
shrike thrush, though the three last are delightful
singers. The group comprising the coots, moorhens
and waterhens supplies a more striking example of
the awfulness of Australian bird nomenclature. I
allude to the popular or vernacu-
lar names; their classical titles
are impossible for general use out-
side a lunatic asylum. Moorhen
and waterhen (the males are pre-
sumably moorcocks and water-
cocks) are terms that apply to
dozens of waterfowl. Coot is all
right, only it’s borrowed; but
blue-bald coot, or azure-breasted
Phorphyrio, is an atrocity. Again,
as the coot is partly bald, having
a naked, lead-colored forehead,
bald coot isn't satisfactory as a
name for its near relative, which
is also known as redbill and black-
back Phorphyrio. Redbill would
be good enough, but it belongs to
quite another kind of bird (dozens
of birds, including the village
toper, have got red bills). Other
species are called black moorhen,
rufous-tailed moorhen, native hen,
black-tailed native hen, etc. Each
of these has several aboriginal
names, if they haven’t got good folk names, and
the most euphonious of them should be retained.
“Minkil”: “Koonah” (B. 22/2/T7) asks
the name of the common Mallee lizard about six
inches long that so easily loses portion of its tail.
This is no doubt the Kmoa spenceri, named after
Prof. IV. B. Spencer, of Melbourne University;
but I have never seen one change color when cap-
tured, as “Koonah” describes. Tiger snakes appre-
ciate them. I have several times found them partly
digested in the tiger’s cupboard. “Sarto” (B.
8/2/’ 17) fairly describes a gecko lizard which he
chopped out of a red-gum log. It was probably
Phyllurus millinsii, described by McCoy as a small,
disagreeable-looking lizard with broad, thick, heart-
shaped tail. The beautiful transverse dark and light
banding on the upper surface makes it one of the most
striking lizards of Victoria. This reptile can walk
up the wall of a room, but as all Australian geckos
are of nocturnal habit I would like to know where
“E.S.S.” (B. 8/2/’l7) saw them catching flies.
“Leo Lear”: Let me add to “E.S.S.’s”
three Australian birds (blue wren, bush-lark and
rccd-warbler) that sing at night. Most of the cuckoos,
especially the pallid and channel-bill, advertise their
vocal goods in the dark hours, though I reckon t-.e
latter’s is the most discordant clamor raised by
any Australian bird. Then how about the wagtail?
This little chap goes the wlmle night long and then
cheerfully tackles the day-shift. Lastly the white-
backed magpie often gives us a round of his un-
equalled warble at 2 g.m. By the way, does any-
one know a locality where white-backed and black-
backed maggies are equally common? In N.E.
Australia the black bloke seems to run the show,
and along the south coast of the continent the
slightly larger white cove rules the country.
* * * *
“I-1.V.E.”: “Eryander” says that the
yellow-bellied sea-snake is “rarely found so far south
as Sydney.” I found the corpse of one on a beach
between Bermagui and Tathra, over 200 miles far-
ther south. The extraordinarily attenuated head and
neck of this snake is about the thickness of an
under-sized little finger, a formation which enables
it to obtain its food from narrow crevices of sub-
merged rocks. The wriggler is, of course, highly
venomous, but no casualties are on record. The
compressed body flattens towards the tail and ends in
a blade-like section as in the case of eels. Such
extreme compression indicates that the creature lives
at a considerable depth, as this formation is best
suited for resistance of water-pressure. Another
variety of sea-snake, ringed with black and white,
has been captured in the vicinity of Port Jackson;
other species are confined to tropical seas. . By the
way, land snakes, even deadly ones such as the black
and tiger, are said to be edible, and possibly sea-
NO GLUTTON.
MISSUS: “Want to do some work for a meal, do yer? Well, there ain't much work to
he done here."
BEAT ( apologetically): “Well, Mum, I wouldn't do much."
snakes are also. Even the horrific estuary catfish
and the serpent-like green eel, common on rocky
foreshores, may serve as food. It is on record that
several bags (“Chapman's,” I think) full of dried
estuary catfish found a ready sale on a certain
V/estralian gold-field at a time when such luxuries
as bully beef and tinned bacon and eggs were out
of stock. The freshwater catfish (miscalled “jew-
fish”) is, of course, a recognised article of diet, and
in all probability its brother of the estuaries, if
skinned, would be good.
“Wandi”: A country paper says that
while working in Teven Creek (N.S.W.) three men
were stung by bullrouts “and suffered excruciating
agony for a couple of hours until the turn of the
tide arrested the pain.” It is an old belief on the
north-eastern rivers that the pain from the sting of
the bullrout persists until the tide turns, though
how the tide affects it has never been explained.
Granting that it has an allaying influence, I can’t
understand why a man who is stung a little while
after the tide has turned should suffer for several
hours, while one that is stung just before the turn
of the water is relieved in a few minutes. When I
was a boy a bullrout got me on the forefinger in
the Richmond. The tide did not reach within 12
miles of the spot, and a mate told me that the pain,
which was certainly excruciating, would continue
till' the sun went down. It did, after two long,
weary hours. Evidence points to two hours as
being the common duration of the pain.
“Pjck”: Has any Abo. heard lately of wool
catching fire through being pressed when wet? Dur-
ing the wet shearing of ,1910 the wool-hawks became
less particular about the risks of lumbago and
rheumatism through handling wet sheep. In differ-
ent sheds I saw the juice oozing out of the bales
when they were being pressed, and if that wool
hasn’t caught the I.W.W. disease, it’s about time to
drop the old theory that wet wool is liable to
spontaneous combustion.
* * * *
“Buzfuz” : Re Tommy Wilkinson’s feat of
drawing 22 tons with a string of 70 bullocks (15.
S/2/’l7). I saw this performance and it was some-
thing to write a poem about. A few miles from
Tarbrax (N.Q.), his starting-point, the load shifted
to one side and was on the point of capsizing every
moment. Half-way to its destination the waggon
sank to the axle-beds in soft ground, but Tommy
has a reputation in this district as one who does his
best work when up against trouble; so he set to and
dug a get-out for the wheels, hooked on a string of
83 steers, and after a good deal of battling delivered
his cargo.
* * * *
“Kuku Kuku”: The big Orokiva (from
the country where they eat men alive) was helping
to build a storeroom under my somewhat unskilled
direction: The ground was about as level as a
view of Sydney’s roofs from the top of the Metropole,
and a distant glimpse of the sea, apparently tilted
all to one side, upset calculations still worse. At
last I gave up trying to do the job with the eye,
and told the Northern cannibal to go and borrow a
level from my neighbor. He started off willingly—
he is always willing, and always literal; it you told
him to go and put his head in a bag he would imme-
diately pick up yesterday's rice sack and extinguish
himself till further orders, without presuming to
think what you meant by it. I called him back and
asked him to repeat the message; one never knows.
“What I tell you?” I asked. “1 savvy, Sinabada,”
he said. “You talk what I been tell you,” I in-
sisted, to make sure. “You tell along me I go along
Missi ’s house, I tell him he send boy here quick,
he bring Sinabada the devil!”
(Continued on page 24 .)
COMIN’ ’OME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Skippin’ through the day’s work,
Dancin’ to and fro,
Rattlin’ the milk-cans,
Singin’ as I go ;
Singin’ to the pastures;
Singin’ to the dome ;
Lord, but this is gladness—
The boys are coinin’ ’ome!
Cornin’ ’ome from lightin’,
Rightin' for the King:
“I’ve bin slightly wounded ;
Jim ’as lost a wing.”
Here’s the blessed letter—
Wish my ’and was still
Tellin’ all about it,
Written by our Bill.
Dad is kinder kitt’nish,
’Ear ’im callin’ now
Loud an’ ’eartv, “You, Lil,
’Elp me with this cow!”
Mum ’as crimped ’er ’air up,
Laughin’ all the time;
Dad ’as combed ’is whiskers,
Reelin’ mighty prime.
“Boat came in this mornin’,
Coinin’ ’ome to-day”—
Didn’t think a telegram
’Ad so much to say.
Reel as if I’m bustin’,
With a funny pain;
’Arnessin’ the ’orses,
Goin’ to the train.
Skippin’ through the day’s work,
Dancin’ to an’ fro,
Rattlin’ the milk-cans,
Singin’ as I go ;
Singin’ to the pastures,
Singin’ to the dome,
Lord, but this is gladness—
The boys are cornin’ ’ome!
N.S.W.
TAL ORDELL.


Order Your EASTER SUIT
NOW at MURDOCH’S.
\
i a
iiiiiliiiiiim
NJ
iPM
There is no time to hesitate-—Easter is
almost here ! Further delay may mean
disappointment.
MURDOCH’S
’ ' I
New Easter Suitings
63
Suit-to-
Measure
will prove decidedly attractive, as
they feature quality and smart-
ness.
The standard of Murdoch Tailor-
ing goes right forward until it
reaches your ideal of satisfaction.
Practical economy is assured at
this moderate price.
LEAVE YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
We refund your money if the Suit
fails to please.
Call and choose your fabric to-
day, or write Desk E for patterns.
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch's in Parle St.
Ltd., SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Easter
Suitings at 63/- the Suit-to-
Measure, tvith tape and self-
measurement form.
Name
Address
Murdochs
in Park Street, Ltd.
SYDNEY.
* Where the Good Hats Are.’
wkt the “Victory” Dispensing
Machine is doing for Hotelkeepers.
■;
HUDSON SUPER-SIX
Sets World’s Record in Trip Across American Continent.
average of
endurance.
A direct saving of 2o to 50 pel cent. 1
convenience and material in the delivery
of ice-cold Lemonade, Ginger Ale and boda
Water.
By the aid of the “Victory” Bar Arm these
are all brought to the bar, and any quantity
can be drawn from loz. upwards.
One Barman can do absolutely the work of two
with the aid of the “Victory” Machine.
Remember, it is the only Bar Ann on the
market with the Patent Water Llush
System, which positively ensures clean
flavored drinks.
This machine has been installed by many of
the leading hotels throughout the State
with pronounced success.
It is enough proof of the efficiency of the
“Victory” Bar Dispensing Arm when
testimonials such as the following are
voluntarily sent to our firm :
To The Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.,
219 George Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
The “Victory” Dispenser is running
with great success; in fact, I would not
be without it. It is a moneymaker for
any Hotelkeeper. It has cut my cordial
bill from £2O a month to £4 a month.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) ARTHUR BOLTON,
Commercial Hotel,
Lockhart, N.S.W.
We guarantee the success of this machine
by bacKing it with a 5 years* guarantee.
You can get all particulars by sending us a postcard.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
2X9 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
**— is-aavAsar -i “ , "" rs ' * n 4 " n ' ,ort ' r ’’
Adelaide: Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street.
p»,h, . a R Hadden. 99 William Street.
New Zealand’: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets, Wellington.
HUDSON
MOTOR.
CARS
Then just to prove its superiority this
same Super-Six turned around on the day
of its arrival in New York and went back,
making the round trip of 6952 miles in 19
davs, 21 hours, 14 minutes.
Other cars made the trip one way but none
within hours of the time set by the Hud-
son. NO OTHER CAR, HOWEVER, EVER
ATTEMPTED THE ROUND TRIP.
The Super-Six with its patented motor, an
exclusive Hudson feature, holds all woith-
while stock car records.
The 21t-hour record —1819 miles at an aver-
age rate of 75.8 miles per hour, peaking
the record held by S. ,F. Edge for NINE
years.
The one-mile record — 102.53 miles per hour.
First up Pike's Peak, a hill-climbing con-
test held over a course of 12\ miles, the
greater portion of the run being at an alti-
tude of nearly three miles. In this event
there were over 20 famous American and
European cars entered.
These are some of the records made by the Super-Six in 1916. In this same
year 25,000 Super-Sixes were built, and to-day the Hudson Motor Car Com-
pany is the largest maker of fine cars in the world.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan
Cable Address: HUDSONCAR.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., 1 5 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety &. Co. Lt'i., Elizabeth* Street, Brisbane.
Lane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J. Brien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.


RELIEVES STOMACH TROUBLE, OR
MONEY BACK.
A REMARKABLE GUARANTEE.
The contention of numerous authorities
that over 90 per cent, of all stomach troubles
are either directly or indirectly due to
acidity or food fermentation, seems to be
amply proven by the relief experienced by
sufferers, who take half a teaspoonful of
bisurated magnesia in a little water imme-
diately after eating. Many dyspeptics,
however, have tried so many highly-praised
remedies without obtaining relief that
they have begun to think nothing can help
them. It is therefore a matter of pleasant
surprise to these people to learn that every
bottle of bisurated magnesia is accompanied
by a binding guarantee to return the pur-
chase price if it fails to give complete satis-
faction—proof positive that bisurated mag-
nesia is the most reliable remedy known for
dyspepsia, indigestion, acidity, flatulence
and stomach troubles generally.'— Advt.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
CHoose a "Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
#
The
Soldiers
Pen
“Swan Safety
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch J
uaiaiog-ue iree on request.
MAtSIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J, A. BURKfc
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“Waudi”: A Glen limes squatter believes
in the domestic cat as a rabbit destroyer and has
distributed a few dozen of the species about his run.
His experience is that they remain in the bush
where liberated and go wild. They .cause a rapid
diminution in the rabbit population, but what will
bo done with the remedy when the disease has been
wiped out? A cat that will kill a rabbit will also
kill a young lamb; arid the damage it will do
among birds will be more serious in its ultimate
result than the rabbit plague. Bunny can be put
to good use, and to replace the herbivorous pest
with a prowling carnivorous one could be nothing
else but a calamity. Native cats (dasyures) were
once plentiful in the coastal regions and gave a
lot of trouble. They made their nests in hollow
logs and in the butts of hollow trees, and at night-
time raided the .hen-roosts. They were pretty- little
creatures, one species being thickly marked with
large brown spots and another with black spots.
Any of them are preferable to the tame cat that has
run wild.
JOHNSON.
“What sort of a chap is Johnson?”
“Well, if ever you see two men in a corner, and one looks bored to death, the other
is Johnson.”
A Ilawkesbury (N.S.W.) spider lately left
home hurriedly and went out for a drink, when
something like a Zeppelin shot into the net he had
spread for a fly. It was a “silver-eye,” and though
it shook the trap thoroughly it didn’t get out till
two chaps from the Ilawkesbury Agricultural College
freed it. Most of the big sticky web was swathed
round the prisoner’s feathers and it was hanging
helpless by the tail and one wing on two main
strands.
“Vailima”: “E.M.W.” (B. 15/2/T7) is
quite right about the variety' of carnivorous plants
in IV.A., but astray in some points. For instance,
there are between 40 and 50 sundews instead of only
two. The four-petalled flycatcher is not carnivorous.
It is a well-known trigger plant —alias “Jack-in-
the-box,” “spring flower” and “donkey orchid”—
of which IV.A. has over 70 species. The object of
the hammer (w’hich does not imprison the insect,
but merely slaps it on the back and lets it go) is
the pollination of the flower. Neither is the spider
orchid carnivorous. Its mechanism has just the
same purpose as the hammer in the trigger plants.
In addition to its sundews, IV.A. has two other
insectivorous plants, one called Bi/blis (no common
name), and the unique and beautiful little pitcher-
plant of Albany, which is found nowhere else in
the world than in that restricted area. Both these
plants are remarkable for entertaining guests, or, as
some biologists call them, messmates. A brilliantly-
colored bug lives among the sticky hairs of Bi/blis,
and when a new victim arrives lie saunters up non-
chalantly, and inserting his sucking beak fares
sumptuously', thus robbing the poor plant of its
hard-earned dinner. The same insect also frequents
the forked sundew, common in the wet sandstone
country around Sydney. The pitchers of the Albany
plant always contain the maggots of a species of
March fly, which lays its eggs in the mass, of cap-
tured insects in the pitchers, the larva waxing fat
on this predigested food. It is rather remarkable
that the larva is not itself digested, but as in the
case of intestinal worms there is probably an enzyme
produced by the maggot which prevents the action
of the digestive fluid contained in the pitchers.
“Toby C.”: In B. S/2/’l7 “Slybacon”
cracks a stockwhip, but it is evidently his first, since
he remarks that “the lash is usually lighter and
thicker than the tail.” Any stockman worthy of
the name can tell him that the 1 h, though lighter,
must be thinner than the fall, or tail, otherwise
correct balance is lacking j and balance is every-
thing in a stockwhip. This is not an • rgument
against the vacuum-creating principles of the crack,
but merely a hint for “Slybacon” to-learn something
about the persuaders.
“F.N.T.” : Binghi is getting right up to
date. The other day' in Melbourne I saw one of him,
a full-blooded abo., dressed like any other casual
toiler, whirl in on a motor-bike among the traffic
at St. Paul’s corner and whirl out again with the
insouciant ease of an old hand at the game. He
rode with his head down and his eyes up, rolling
them whitely- upon the motor-ears, jinkers and
women with babes-in-arms that threatened him on
every side. Then he was off and out along St.
Kilda-road towards the far wilds of the Prahran
bush, most of which, where it isn’t dingy bricks-and-
mortar, is nowadays imported willows and elms and
cypresses, with about two gum-trees to the 100 acres.
A FELLOW FEELING.
SHANTY-KEEPER: "An’ fwhat was ye brou ght up to do?”
NEWCHUM: "My father — haw —wanted vie to take ordahs.”
S.K.: "Indeed, now! No wonder ye left the old divil! Fare, I had to take orders
me self for a batcher when I was a lad.”
“Soupdriuker”: These naturalists take a
long time to And out things that every buslnnan
knows. Here is the great Fabre, for instance, telling
how he was tempted to sample wood-grubs by a
quotation from the late Pliny:—
Luxury had reached such a pitch amongst the
Homans that they looked upon the large worms of
the oak as a delicacy. They called them Cossi.
labre got his grubs out of the decayed stumps of
some French neighbor's firtrees, and, with a couple
of trustful neighbors as guests, roasted the big white
things on skewers and ate them with a pinch of salt.
They tasted like burnt almonds flavored with vanilla.
Later lie made the experiment of keeping and fatten-
ing them in jars filled with flour —another of the
tips lie picked up from Pliny, who records that
the Homans got their grubs in good -condition for
Ihe banqueting table by gorging them on flour and
wine - T he tip might be useful to England in these
dajs if it wasn t for the shortage of flour and wine.
Chaivbacon : About the Murray merino
flock in S. Aus. Allow me. It was Chief Justice
.Murray’s father, A. I>. Murray, who founded it.
His brother John joined him later.
“Jerry M." : A friend of mine has a pair
of white cockatoos which he has had for 20 years.
They are kept in a roomy cage, in the centre of
which was a hollow log. Three seasons ago the birds
dug a -round hole about a foot in diameter in one
corner of the cage and laid two eggs. The following
season the same thing 'occurred, except that the hole
was dug in another corner; but the result from both
lots of eggs was nil. A fresh hollow log was then
placed in the cage, and last season two more eggs
were laid, and this time two young Pollies were
hatched. Up to date they are doing well. Is there
any other known instance of cockatoos breeding in
captivity ? Incidentally, how do you tell the gent
from his better-half?
“P.1I.”; A pleasing feature, of the times
is the quick increase of the native Australian bird
and beast population. The murderous attitude of
the pioneer cockies and their children towards these
serviceable and beautiful creatures has given place
to solicitude. Around Orbost (Vic.) fur and
feathers are multiplying splendidly. The . day is
enlivened by the notes of the magpie, jackass,
butcher-bird, whipbird and a score of smaller species,
while at night one is reminded of early days by-
scrambling squirrels and ’possums and the strong
voice of the mopoke. In the Snowy River and its
tributaries the platypus can now be seen at any
time. Even on St. Kikla-road, Melbourne, wild mag-
pies are nesting among the chimney-pots of St.
Margaret’s Nurses’ Home.
“Main Shaft”: Another word about the
broad-leaved box as food for sheep. During the 1902
drought, when the country from Gilgandra to Coona-
barabran (N.S.W.) was as bare as a road, the only
feed available was kurrajong, she-oak, trefoil burr
ai d the box. On the rough ridges 40 miles out from
Gilgandra the •woollies not only kept alive on box-
leaves, but were active and vigorous and in very fair
condition. One owner told me that his box-fed flock,
was far superior to a lot that was considered fortu-
nate in having dry g-rass. The trefoil burr also
proved its value on the flat country along parts of
the Castlercagli. Edible scrub was gone, yet the
jumbucks, with no other food than burrs, put their
thumbs to their noses at the drought.
MUCH MORE DIFFICULT.
OFFOCER: "What, you refuse me? Why, my
men would walk into the jaws of death
with me!”
SHE: "Yes—but would they live with you?”
“E.M.W.”: “Margot” (B. 22/2/17)
should experiment before she makes rash assertions.
W lien 1 was a child mother used to smear my eyes
with castor-oil to keep off flies, and even when they
(the eyes, not the flies) were full of oil I experienced
no pain or inconvenience.
SISTER MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Night winds straying o’er your pillow,
Faintly rustling in the willow,
Whispering to the creaking stable,
Crooning out the old-time fable ;
Baron munching by his feed-bin
(How I’d love to pat his old skin!),
Mother in the big loved bedroom
Where we both were given life-bloom;
Ivy clinging round the grey posts. . . .
I wake to find I’m with the brown hosts,
Standing in our rain-soaked breeches, .
’Nodding twixt the shrapnel screeches.
Little black-haired, quiet sleeper^
Can’t you hear me calling deeper,
Clearer than the gurgling river,
Stronger than the curlew’s quiver,
Floating out among the pine trees,
Carried homewards b.v the south breeze?
Fragrant head, sink sdft an'd deep,
I should grieve to break your sleep,
Or to see y-our eves sad wond’ring
Of your brother 'midst the thund’ring
And the fitful star shells' flashing
Where the front supports are massing!
Girlie, I do hope you’re dreaming—
That the moonbeams are still gleaming
In between the waving curtain....
Strange to-night I feel quite certain
Somehow this will soon be over,
And I’ll sneak across to Dover ;
Golly-, girlie, I’m near weeping,
■Just because I see you sleeping.
SOMEWHERE.
B. N. J.


Tfacb box of State Express Cigarettes
4-1 exemplifies tbe pride of tbe expert
in evolving' a Cig'arette worthy of tbe
big'best in tbe land.
Eacb new smoker, as tbe delig'bts of
tbis superb cig'arette are revealed to
bim, becomes an immediate convert to
its pleasures.
STSTE (XPIJKS
CIGARETTES
are “something' different.” “Tbat’s tbe reason.”
No* 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
lO for 6d.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
B X
HV,
oN
A .
£S%
ae
n'M
S 3
»
«
«
&
<S
&*
#
I
/S
5
issO
%
IU
•Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
\l — — ~
3rte H&cJ SPiaek
Me- QteL Cvu4%#uf n


HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, CROUP AND COLDS.
iHOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne's Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud," or serious illness may follow.
03
f, ( >
3
r
Nj
15
“ An Excellent
Preparation.”
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, aend
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at
Sydney, n.s.w.j Wellin®ton, w.z.
“M.P.A.”: A few years ago I saw the
Swartz Brothers play a broken-mirror act
in London; and now I see the J-C.\\.
comedians play it in the Melbourne panto
this year. In a nightly round of theatres
and halls I placed the Swartz act at the
Coliseum as the best of all comedy stuff in
the Big Smoke. Years of practice had given
such a finish and completeness of detail to
their work that the act almost amounted to
genius in mimicry. The house rocked with
laughter from the moment the play in the
mirror frame began. But that wasn t the
original mirror business. Back in the
’GO’S Madame Julia Lehman and Madame
Marzetti gave an excellent performance at
the old Haymarket Theatre, Bourke-street,
Melbourne; and not so many years ago the
late George Musgrove introduced a mirror
dance on similar lines into one of his many
attractions. The Swartz Bros.’ sketch is no
doubt protected because it contains a deal
of clever dialogue, but the actual broken-
mirror idea was worked—Heaven knows how
long ago!
“Stargazer”: I have discussed “Turn to
the Right” with several actors and one or
two actor-managers, and they all love it. In
each case the sugar-coated mother was just
the most lovable of her sex, an angelic
sample that even grown men who respect
sweetness and light must cry over. Io
me the play, apart from its low-comedy
elements, is trite and tripey, and the good
mother is a bore. She is striking evidence
of the impossibility of making a living
woman wholly out of molasses, which you
can no more do than make a successful meal
on the same nauseating extract. Maw
in “Turn to the Right” is cloying; you leel
sticky after contact with her. But actors
from long contact with exaggerated senti-
ment cannot appreciate pleasing human
qualities that have not the superlative charm
of a seraph pickled in glucose, nor be stirred
by evil attributes that are not persistently
and aggressively diabolical. To be a good
judge of plays in the commercial theatre you
must have deplorable misconceptions of
human nature.
“Billy T.”: A Melbourne doctor claims
that woman does not faint nowadays, and
holds it to be proof of great physical and
psychological progress. In the middle of
last century a woman confronted with any
difficulty of which her mind offered no imme-
diate solution got out of it by tumbling
in a swoon ; to-day she faces her difficulties
like a man. That doctor does not go to
our theatres or picture-shows, where the
dramatists hold their little mirrors up to
nature, and where woman, confronted with
a problem, faints away just as freely as she
did in 1850. But I have to admit that in the
drama woman faints, not to dodge her own
difficulties, but to enable the playwright to
dodge his. In a play I sampled the other
night the villain, in the hands of the
police for robbery and a trifle of murder, is
about to be incriminated by the word of the
heroine, when she flops. “Saved! Saved.
cries the villain, throwing off the claws of
the law. “She has fainted!” So two vil-
lains were saved. The other was the play-
writer.
“ Jwosp”: The Yankee mummers mean
business and are working up a federation of
all actors, stage, vaudeville and screen, on
a trades-union basis. So far only the
movie crowd are standing out, but if they
come in out of the wet the umbrella will
cover 20,000 all told.
“Viator”: One of the greatest sights on
' earth is the annual gratuitous night at Paris
Grand Opera. The municipality supplies
poor citizens with tickets to any part of the
house. First come, first served—stage boxes,
stalls, dress-circle or galleries; even the
boxes behind the curtain, for which this
Opera is unique, and which are mightily ex-
pensive, are flung open. Exquisite politeness
is met on every hand—it’s all “Monsieur,
“Madame” and “Mademoiselle.” Immense
orchestra, all immaculate in evening-dress.
What opera? “La Juive.” With this the
new Grand had opened soon after the
Franco-German War, as a sort of defiance
to Germany. What splendid acting and
singing! Calls and recalls. “Merci!” cry
the laughing performers. Ho! The conduc-
tor ! Must have him up! Here he is at
last, all smiles and perspiration, led on by
the principals stringing hand in hand.
“ Vivat!”
“Jwosp”: Ethel Dane, who dropped some
clothes in “Who’s the Lady” and showed how
nicely such things can be done, is now with
her husband, Cyril Keightley, in a good part
in the New York revival of Barrie’s “The
Professor’s Love Story.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
“H.M.”: Farmers have been scowling at
a mob of prosperous-looking individuals who
have no official connection with the Wheat
Pool, yet seem to have a fine pull somewhere.
They are fluent, good-natured people, who,
if a man has any difficulty with the pool, are
willing to help him through—for a considera-
tion, of course. It is whispered that these
wizards have worked wonders and that in
some cases inferior wheat has been accepted,
in some magical way, as f.a.q. At Wagga
(N.S.W.) it is alleged that a share cocky’s
wheat was declared to be not f.a.q., and a
heavy deduction was made, while the land-
lord’s whack of the same crop was passed
as f.a.q. Of course the question immedi-
ately asked is “Why employ agents at all?”
But the fact is that there has been so much
red-tape about the payment of money out
of the pool (especially if the farmer has
owed the Government a trifle for seed-wheat,
etc.) that many a farmer has been driven
to desperation. It is the red-tape and cir-
cumlocution and delay that has given the
agent his chance ; and for that the Agricul-
tural Departments are resnonsible.
* * * *
“Haka”: They open their heads pretty
wide in the Argentine when tliere’d shorthorn
bull on the catalogue. At the recent Palermo
cattle sales 44 of them changed hands in an
afternoon at an average of £760 per head.
In the four-figure class two brought £4785
and £4370 apiece, while others cost from
£lOOO- to £4OOO per bull. What would have
been a record, however, was spoiled by the
refusal of a paltry £5240 for.the champion
on the list. Many of the animals were
importations from John Bull’s stud.
One of the drawbacks attached to the
importing industry is the pillaging of cargo
-—for which, in the long run, the consumer
pays. But, though the Australian lumper
gets blamed for a lot of this, he isn’t always
the culprit. The other day a case of tools
from N’Yark was dumped carelessly on
the Melbourne wharf, whereupon some
inquisitive stranger inspected it and asked
the consignee if it paid to import bricks.
The case of “tools” was full of baked clay
of a Yankee brand !
“Edo”: The evil odor tliat is not usual
around Westralian Government departments
has latterly been specially strong in the office
of the Curator of Intestate Estates. A Com-
mission of Inquiry has been staggered to
learn that the affairs of people dead several
years had not yet been wound up, and that
in many instances articles of jewellery were
missing. It seems, also, to have been quite
a common practice for (say) a good gold
watch to be replaced by a poor imitation.
Officers complain of overwork and poor pay ;
but it looks as if someone had found time to
arrange for extra remuneration.
* * * *
“C. 0.”: In these hard-up times when
the public is urged by our calamitous poli-
ticians to exercise the most rigid economy,
it is interesting to note the example set by
the Government in even the smallest details.
At the N. S. Wales railway refreshment
rooms it was customary for Private Enter-
prise to use the glass water-jugs provided
gratis by advertising whisky-distillers. But
since Sosh took the rooms over the humble
glass pitchers have been replaced by gor-
geous silver-plated flagons costing £3 each.
The only advantage these offer to the. travel-
ler is that he cannot see the flies that have
suicided in them until he pours them into
his liquor or tea. The delay in extracting
the dead and dying may save the department
a portion of a meal when the “All aboard”
bell rings, but more than that is required
to make up the £l5OO a year the private
lessee used to pay.
* * * *
“E.O’S.” : There is a Jap shop in Sydney
which has been giving me a queer feeling
lately. In the window, attached to some
goods or other, is a bold sign: “Made in
Australia.” That Jap evidently thinks
the fact that something is made in Australia
will naturally appeal to Australians, just as
he knows that in Japan a sign “Made in
Japan” would appeal to Japanese. Doesn’t
that Jap teach us a lesson?
* * * *
“Quidam” : Does anyone know what drug
the “century plant” contains? It grows
plentifully in N. S. Wales, and is highly
esteemed by bush folk as a cure for dysen-
tery ; also it is said to be a good tonic. It
is about as bitter as quinine, but its bush
champions swear that it does no harm to
anyone. Whatever the drug is, it is prob-
ably. of value if properly prepared. Possibly
Australians, as is customary, import it from
somewhere at a tall price. We are a highly-
developed people when it comes to botanical
chemistry—nearly as highly developed as our
own gohannas.
* * * *
The Wairarapa (M.L.) men on the land
are at it again on behalf of the boys in
brown. To raise funds for a soldiers’ club
they put up a pig at auction, and in a little
over five minutes he had been sold and resold
for £lOOO. A sheep fair was on at the time,
and Captain Cook’s legacy was again put
up. The auctioneer took off hid coat and
appealed to the Lincoln-fanciers to wipe the
floor with the Romney-adherents, which they
promptly did by bidding £1067. Add the
two, and the total ought to be in the vicinity
of a record price for a grunt.
* * * *
“Mish”: Against “Murkah’s” parade of
prize telegraphic bulls I’ll enter mine. A
Melbourne merchant cabled Jones’s, of
Hobart, an order for 50 tins of jam. A
fortnight later the astounded man received
bills of lading for 50 .tons. A frequent cause
of errors is the weak section of a bad line
dropping dots. That explained a London
cablegram addressed “Christ Melbourne.”
It was two days before Mr. Christie got his
corrected message. One of the boys at the
Front cabled his father, “In hospital with
child.” It took the perplexed old man only
one guess to make it “chill.”
* * * *
“May D.”: Australia should shortly be
reading some practical remarks on vanilla-
growing by Beatrice Grimshaw, for that
writing lady is now supervising her own
plantation in Papua. Vanilla is such un-
certain stuff to cultivate, though, that her
whole year’s work may prove to have been
wasted. You can put your acres under the
plant, watch the blooms and then the pods
develop, and start to order new frocks and
silken luxuries, only to find that you can’t
squeeze a drop of essence from the crop.
Yet a planter a few hundred yards distant
will probably succeed year after year, just
because he has. hit upon soil which to the
eye is the same as yours, but is somehow
different. It is the most beautiful gamble
for vegetable stakes you could possibly
imagine.
* * * *
Two Maorilanders have been experiment-
ing with the juices of home-grown weeds, and
have produced 250 shades of dyes. The
scene of their researches is at Kaitoke,
where the ground produces fine crops and
the only industry is dairying, except for one
individual, who is boring for coal which he
says he found with a willow stick. The
dye discovery seems to be a sound one,
though, so far, no brilliant blues or reds
have been produced.
* * * *
“Wages don’t trouble me,” said the
candle manufacturer. “Every time my
coves come at me for a bit more, I nip
another quarter-inch off me candles.” In
other words, he passes it on by cutting it off.
# * * *
“Two Seas”: In most of the London
magazine stories I have read lately, when-
ever a motor-car has been mentioned it has
always been the same brand of stinkpot. The
villain always abducts the persecuted
heroine in a Whatsthis car of incredible
speed, and as the hero pursues him with a
car of the same brand the villain is never
overtaken until he has scooted well into the
last chapter. Even then he has to be
stonned only by an obstacle that nothing
on wheels could get through. It is an old
idea in business, robbery, etc., revived.
When I was pursuing literature in the Big
Smoke I was under contract never to men-
tion but one brand of cigar. If my hero
desired to soothe his ruffled feelings with
my lady Nicotine he was always condemned
to choose “a choice Parfum de Chou from
the box Parker had placed silently at his
master’s elbow.” In part return for this
devotion of Parker’s his creator was kept
supplied with the high-flavored brand. I
found it very useful. Whenever the daily
bore blew into my den with suggestions for
plots I introduced him to a Parfum de Chou
and begged him to smoke until I was ready
to hear his views. I seldom heard anything
but a hiccough and an indecent rush for the
door.
POSTAL ECONOMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Through his decision to sell waste-paper instead 01
paying to have it burned, Mr. Webster, Postmaster-
General, has made an annual saving- of £5OO a year.
We saved the scraps of paper with a will,
We gathered up the odds and ends of string ;
In sealing-wax alone our present bill
Is much below the.one we paid last Spring.
We do not boast, but by our thrifty way
AVe hope to make the postal system pay.
What’s that? The large fool-public still complains
That letters wander round for weeks astray,
That telegraphic muddle still remains
AVhile wrath chokes action and reforms delay.
Is the Post Office merely here to meet
The wishes of the people in the street?
No, no ! The reason postage stamps are sold
And mailbags hustled fiercely to and fro.
Is but to keep from want and shame and cold
The weary actors in a costly show.
All other views are false. At vast expense
We offer shelter for incompetence.
Grasp this and all things else are clear and plain.
But watch us as we save the public string!
To this tremendous task our soul and brain
With zealous patriotic force we bring.
Paper and string! The gross result is great.
The public? Let it waste its time and wait.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.
THE RHYME OF YOUNG CARLO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Carlo, da hawker, on beeg sheep ees gone,
No more mash weeth Flora, no more Leetle Lon;
When firsta dey call heem it maka heem seeck,
But back for Napoli he go pretty queeck ;
No more in da Market
We seeta for yarn,
Or seenga da warcry, “Peanut-ta—Banan’!”
Young Carlo, da hawker, he taka hees gun,
An’ join da Alpini for fighta da Hun ;
He write in da letter dey sinkin’ da boot
So soon as dey can in da side of da brute;
So moocha da knifin’
He never have seen —-
But Viva da redda, da whita, da green!
Young Flora she sit in da wineshop an’ cry ;
Da fatta ol’ woman, she say, “Whaffor? Why?
He stay in Napoli, you stay in da shop,
Da besta in Bourke-strit for cateha da cop.!’
But Flora no lees’en,
She never take on,
She steeck for Young Carlo an’ turn down da John.
Young Carlo he senda me letter one day,
For geeva young Flora hees money an’ pay;
So bad he ees wounded he never get right,
When bursta da bomb on Gorizia height;
I no tella Flora,
I maka pretend
How sure ees Young Carlo come back in da end.
Young. Carlo da hawker ees come back agin,
Weeth hook for da handa, an’ seeck in da.brain;
But Flora she walka so prouda, so sweet,
She know how young Carlo been doin’ his beet—
You teenka heem done for,
I tella you “Garni”
You lees’en heem eeenga, “Peanutta —Banan’l”
VICTORIA.
RANN DALY.
HOLDING HER AUDIENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve made a hit. A pleasant thing
It is to make a perfect hit.
Once people said I could not sing,
Nor even dance a little bit;
And still I cannot sing at all;
I dance, ’tis said, a trifle less ;
But all about the foyer wall
Are set my photos large and small,
And I can wear a splendid dress—
Emphatic is my new success.
My name is large upon the bills;
I chirp a mere melodic spasm.
It’s true my brief performance kills
All popular enthusiasm ;
Yet I am starred at great expense,
And all the pretty things may buy.
My triumph it is just immense.
I easily hold my audience,
Nor do I feel the need to sigh
If no one guesses it but I.
No matter what the critics write,
The manager is pleased with me.
My rivals in their petty spite
May throw it in my teeth, but, see,
I score them off with perfect ease!
It comes to this when all is done:
Their energies they have to tease
Admirers by the score to please,
Whereas fatigue and fears I shun,
Expected to delight but one.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


a
+■
2
£
&
*x
K 8
o /
CW&Xv
:oxy<s
:wKv>xv:v:-:^-xo.7^Avy7>v-,
•A'i::?':-:-:-:-:::-:-:-/:-
XvSi-X&ivVvK
xSPxxSSS?
vxx^x-x-nvxv:-
>
a-v 9.
W J
n:: ; 2
S 3
ny/.ir
•Z AV.Y /
fJPAU
g
;>xo
k
A
; •
f V,
\ *2Sfe'
i
CJ
xv
1
u#
□nnnnnnnanna
u
T-j>
X-
VI/
W
c «n
tu^ZZ
E I
*P 4
Mint*
as
D UK
1 ;!S
V 'A
W&-
ir !
;.'•* i;
°>ti II'; JIUII9
dim K 55
S
S 3
Ife:
<*;
$
i iff
-p/%,
*
*
t
v . •
w
ft. p
H
' •■ .
m
r*
i
rjjt *rt fF rrTTTTTrrTTn
gilll B2'J
k. -•
1
r i
r i
'• «o
r
M
!. c
P!
A
I
i i«r»
ii
‘\
BTri
o»
mm
'/U\
«c 2
>x<><
is
£?SS
7k
m
m
ix
ii®
StfiiwS:
< t 'Tfvs (jbmforir
of a \\ell Ot^Room.
A BADLY-LIT room has a depressing effeCL It
is essential to have a light that will shed its
rays evenly all over the room. Do you realise
what the comfort of a soft even light means? —no
flickering, no noise, no collection of burnt matches
for the housewife to colleCt every morning. B.T.H.
Mazda gives a perfect, steady light —and used in a
semi-indirect fitting it is the nearest thing to day-
light yet discovered. You haven’t got to chase a
light spot to read your paper. B.T.H. Mazda gives
a beautiful yellow light that is much more becoming
than the white glare of gaslight. Insist on B.T.H.
Mazda, and call at our showrooms.
%
0
%
O
A
Q
‘Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
TELEPHONE-
CITY 3510 (5 lines).
Goulburn Street, Sydney.
rhgs
"Mazda House,” Cr. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner
Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.). Ltd.. Hay Street.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
Auckland,


A. SAUNDERS, Diamond Merchant
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
■ £3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut. Diamonds,
Rubies or
Sapphires
Oval Cluster
Ring;, lBct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
All Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Necklace, Isct., Gold,
£22/10/-
Diamonds and Pearls, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond
Cluster Three-bar Brooch, Isct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, lsct. Gold,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut, Diamond
Crossover
King, lBct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamond,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Three Pure
Double-cut
Diamonds
Ring, IBct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent Ex-
panding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, Lever move-
ment, compensation balance, 9ct. gold throughout,
£7/10/-
15ct. gold throughout, £l2/10/-. Other designs,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6, £7.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 15ct. Gold, Patent Ex-
panding Watch Bracelet, full jewelled Lever move-
ment set with Olivines, Red Stones or Pearls, £l2/10/-,
£l5, £l7/10/-. Diamonds and Rubies, £2O. All
Diamonds, £3O, £4O, £5O, according to size of diamonds.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Ex-
panding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled Lever move-
ment, compensation balance, 9ct. Gold throughout,
• £B/10/-
Isct. Gold throughout, £l2/10/-; extra movement,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond and Pearl
Necklace, loct. Gold,
£B/10/-. All Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut
Diamond Bar Brooch, Isct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, lsct. Gold, £l5.
Larger Diamonds, £2O, £25.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Five Pure
Double-cut
Diamond
Bing, Isct.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Cluster Ring,
ISct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Double-
row Half-hoop Ring,
set with six Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and six Rubies,
Sapphires or Olivines, 18ct.
Gold, £6/10/-; All Dia-
monds, £l2/10/-, £l5,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds and
Rubies, or
Sapphires
Marquise
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
imm
A. Saunders’ Pure, Double-cut Diamond
Half-hoop Bracelet, Isct. Gold, £25.
Set Pearls, £5. .
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite
Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Pure jsouble-cut Diamond
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £5O. Larger Diamonds, £65.
Kill those Germs
Germs cause Sore and Husky Throats.
EVANS’ Pastilles .
are a scientific means of removing the cause.
Doctors prescribe them.
BVANS, SONS, LBSCHER & WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
$E
r
Lime Juice
Brings to your Ups the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing,
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
'/2
BOOKS YOU CANT
ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted, Merrie
England, Bd. 1-low to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine's Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1 2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s,, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handyrook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, bv Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty's
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sanpow’s Book of
Strength. 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces,.. 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins.
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
m
HO/VIE CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING ''
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
UrBOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
Prof. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 11-'.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How- to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From- Snowy-River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/S posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDocgall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
-Women's Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks. 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Won’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mare Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappiic,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition. 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoli/'s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large .Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/-. post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
b'ound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete). 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
"piVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS, 2.30.
TIVOLI FOLLIES.
THE BIG FUN SHOW.
Plans: Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
“piVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
ALL VAUDEVILLE BILL.
MALCOLM McEACHERN, FRED BLUETT, NIAG-
ARA AND FALLS, BELLE OLIVER, MARIE KING-
SCOTT, DE FORREST, KEELEY AND ALDOUS,
THE FLYING WEAVERS AND STEWART AND
LORRAINE.
Plan at Glen’s.
U E R MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
1 ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY, including
FLORENCE YOUNG, in the London and New. York
Brilliant Success,
THE PINK LADY.
Plans at Paling’si Day Sales Callose’s.
P ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. TAIT’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in
VERY GOOD EDDIE.
BARRY LTJPINO as “EDDIE.”
Smartest and Brightest of Musical Comedy Successes.
IA/I RTH S ’ NEW HIPPODR OM E.
ww HAYMARKET.
OPENING NEXT SATURDAY. NIGHT.
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS LTD.
MORE NEW ARTISTS. MORE NOVELTIES. MORE
SENSATIONS. MORE AMAZEMENT.
The Best Programme Yet Presented.
THE RIOGOKU FAMILY OF JAPANESE
ACROBATS.
THE GREAT WATER SPECTACLE.
KING NEPTUNE AND THE MERMAIDS in the
NEW SINKING RING.
CAPTAIN lIULING’S PERFORMING SEALS.
BAILEY BROS. POSING HORSES AND DOGS.
MAXIMO, the DRUNK ON THE WIRE.
DAREDEVIL SAMPI’S SLIDE FOR LIFE.
ROWLAND’S SOCIETY CIRCUS.
And numerous other attractions, including Wirths’
Performing Wild Animals.
Prices: Reserved Seats, 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/-
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Hotel Australia.
ONLY TWO WORDS—BUT WHAT .REAL
JOY.
W HIT E CITY
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darlinglnirst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE SMART SET
(from LONDON).
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.16.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
Amusements.
m
Triangle trays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
_ Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Vheatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
DIKC H & CARROLL
° (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba tc
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTIIWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
(For Melb. theatre advts. see page 20.)
Business Notices.
Sam-Flush
Makes and Keeps
Toilet Bowls Clean
A little Sani-Flush sprinkled into
he bowl every few days will keep
it spotless and sanitary. It reaches
and cleans the trap.
The use of Sani-Flush means no
more dipping of water, no scrub-
bing. Sani-Flush is not a general
cleanser, but an unique preparation
Bfii
Th# trapl
which^ou
w/u
to clean toilet
bowls and
keep them
clean.
Ask
Your Dealer
Your dealer
has Sani-Flush
or can get it
quickly; or
writeusacard
givingyourdealer’s
name and we will
have you supplied.
Sani - Flush
should be used wherever there are
toilet bowls in residences and all
other buildings.
Does not injure plumbing connections.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St., 109 Pitt St.,
Wellington, N. Z. Sydney, N. S. W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
gm% i
yy
il
K.f
p-
p' '
SHAVINCI mim.
fi m m Jpp
Keep the
home fires
vbumina>
Gives a lasting
lather and a
smooth shave
.^//////////^
yss/s*
m
W/A
'/.’A
/''A
v. •'■■;■/.
Guaranteed
not to dm
on the face
From all Chemists & Stores.
Agents:
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St., Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
Every Motor-car
should be fitted with a
v ' y/
eUewmb
Warning Signal.
m
Hand Operated,
301-
The Stewart Warning Signal is the superior of any hand-
operated horn made, no matter what the price may be.
When you set out to buy a motor-horn you look for one that has
strength and volume in its warning. Also you want it to last long
—that’s only natural.
In these qualities the Stewart excels. Its warning note rings out
clear and strong. It rises above even the roar of the city’s traffic.
You expect a motors horn to do this, and to do it whenever, called
upon —not to fail at some street crossing or other busy spot where
failure to warn may land you in serious trouble.
The Stewart never fails. It may Be depended upon at all times to
give full warning. *
The Stewart Warning Signal is constructed of the very highest
grade materials. If it’s a question of which will last the longest
—the car or the warning signal—back the warning signal —so long
as it’s a Stewart. - , ,
Compare the tone of it with that of any other horn. Then com-
pare the price—you’ll end by buying a Stp#art.
<in77Tis7jri
Electric Warning Signal.
Price 50/-
Contains a High-Class Motor.
Get a Stewart Warning Signal now —from your local
Storekeeper or Garage.
If he cannot supply you write to
BENNETT WOOD LTD.,
284 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
or any Leading Motor-Accessory Dealer in Australia.
Every article branded “Stewart” is backed by tbe “Cooper”
organisation.
Headquarters: Berkhamsted, England,
Branches at London, Chicago, Montreal, Paris.
Australian Branch : \
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.,
134 SUSSEX STREET,
SYDNEY.
480 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE.
er
If any illustration' appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price lor it.


HOYT’S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City G2IS and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: Gd. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
H
THE most cooling, soothing, quality stockings
you ever wore—“ Jason ” White Elite-
all Drapers are selling them.
Buy a pair now, and you will realise how cool
and comfortable “Jason” are in hot weather
—because of their soft, silky “ finish ” that no other
makes possess. See the “ Jason ’’ Tab on every pair
which guarantees that they are British made from
Australasian wool, in perfect taste, scientifically con-
structed and absolutely unshrinkable.
Quality Stockings & Socks for Ladies, Children & Men.
Illustration shows the “Jason” Elite Stocking,
finest woven plain mercerised lisle leg, ankle &
instep and all-wool 3-in. double top. Specially
strengthened wool foot; in champagne, black & white.
Drapers and Outfitters everywhere. In case of difficulty write ta
JASON HOSIERY CO.. LEICESTER, ENG. ' j
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Prime Minister, talking of the pro-
posed importation of luxuries, says “it is
suicidal to send money out of the country
when every penny and every atom of wealth
is essential.” This is the policy of trying
to win the war by doing for a few weeks
what ought to have been done for years. Cer-
tainly it ought to be done now even if it
wasn’t done before; but those who have
made desperate remedies necessary, and re-
duced our chances of winning through even
if we adopt them, have no right to
regard themselves as statesmen. On their
past record they are the worst sort of dan-
gerous, short-sighted blunderers.
DOING HIS BIT.
CITIZEN : “Your mate seems to be pretty
full!”
JACK : “Oh, ’e belongs to a submarine, and
’e’s filling ’is tanks before ’e sub-
merges!”
In the House oif Reps, last week ex-
Treasurer Higgs gave away the interesting
information that several attempts had been
made to get the Labor Government to redeem
its Protectionist pledge; but “owing to the
presence in the Cabinet of several influential
Freetraders, notably Mr. Hughes, Senator
Pearce and Mr. Poynton, the attempts had
failed.’- However, now that these are.rein-
forced by other Freetraders like Cook and
Glynn, there is no telling what may happen.
Rut the Australian who thinks that his
country needs Protection, and gives such
men the job of supplying it, will also buy tar
when they want to whitewash the fowlhouse.
In the Senate they call it the S.O.S.
Ministry.
When the quaint Victorian “Economist”
Bowser called his remnant together the other
day it first decided to support the Fusion
holus-bolus and to deprecate any inquiry
into the Senate scandal; then it enthusiasti-
cally supported A. A. Billson’s motion that
the life of the State Assembly, which ends
next October, should be extended to March,
’lB, in order that it might deal with such
urgent matters as control of tramways,
charities, drift of population, etc. The war
has, of course, nothing to do with these
things ; still, the idea is entrancing. Its only
fault is its absurd modesty. Why not extend
the present' House’s life sine die, apply the
law of entail to the sitting members, and
have done with it? These recurrent elec-
tions are a great expense and very trying to
real statesmen.
This looks as though the N. S. Wales
Government lias serious thoughts of running
its business on business-like lines. It has
just decided to establish a co-operative
drug depot, through which, as from July 1,
the hospitals all over the State will be able
to purchase their supplies. The hospitals
will practically be the co-operators ; through
the State they will import or manufacture
their own drugs and cut out the middleman.
But the Government’s far bigger job will be
to promote co-operation among the produ-
cers. It is of spine importance to cut down
the cost of drugs to the consumer, no doubt;
but until the depot manufactures' in Aus-
tralia what before was imported, tlie Com-
monwealth will not really be the richer.
On the other hand, when tbe Government en-
courages primary production by helping to
cut out the parasites that now so .often make
primary production a poor business, it will
do something that may easily be worth
millions a year to the country.
From the S. M. Herald ( 1 4/8/M 71 :
Australia is the land of paradox; and it would be
quite in keeping with our history if, while the
general election campaigns in State and Common-
wealth were being carried on, the recruiting returns
should steadily improve. Already there are signs of
improvement. The latest returns in this State are
on the up grade, and —etc., etc.
The paradox is that Australia goes on allow-
ing itself to be misrepresented by men who
don't know Australia. The real Australian
never believed that a general election would
prejudice recruiting. It tvas the bogus Aus-
tralians who at least professed to believe it;
and that fact constitutes another reason
why they should not be trusted to speak or
legislate for people whom they don’t under-
stand.
At Prahran (Vic.), where for many months
the Labor League has been restlessly con-
sidering the matter of choosing a candidate
to oppose Donald Mackinnon, M.L.A., at the
next State elections, matters have taken a
turn for the worse. Private Alec Parker
was originally chosenbut
after his pre-election success
lie' was disqualified for hav-
ing allegedly failed to com-
ply with the spirit of the
P.L.C. rules. Another ballot
was called for, and on the
close of nominations Parker’s
paper was found to be ab-
sent, although he declared he
had posted it. Since then
Parker has gone to the Front
and the branch is bitterly
arguing the matter with his
friends. A reasonable way
out would be to place the
blame on the Postal Depart-
ment, which has no reputa-
tion to lose, and allow
Parker’s pals to put in a
new nomination on his be-
half. It might not be in
accordance with the letter of
the P.L.C. constitution; but
when the constitution
bumps the Fair Thing, the
Fair Thing ought to have the
road.
There has been too much talk in the N. S.
Wales election campaign about the alleged
connection of the Labor party with the
I.W.W. All the harm the I.WAV. would
have done would not be worth worrying
about had it not been for the cursed borrow-
ing orgy of the Labor Government. It
was this that created the artificial condi-
tions in which the I.W.W. theories have
flourished. The Government was splashing
around eight or ten millions a year, mostly
to provide, jobs for supporters; and with
bosses afraid to sack workmen no matter
how dishonestly they behaved, the I.W.W.
got the chance it wanted. Holman therefore
is the last man in the world who ought to
blame the Labor party for being influenced
by the I.WAV. It was he who got it all
ready to be influenced. He seems now to be
sorry he did it; on tbe other hand the Labor
party wants to continue tbe borrowing jag,
and while that lasts the I.W.W. theories
will prevail whether the Labor party counte-
nances them or not.
The S. Aus. Government made a slight
sensation lately by talking of tendering for
the manufacture of ears for the Adelaide
Tramways Trust. The making of such
vehicles is one of Adelaide’s strong points,
and it supplies many of those - used in Mel-
bourne. The builders, of course, thought it
a horrible thing that GoA T ernment should
have a cut in; but after a day or tAvo Public-
Works Jackson announced that there avouUl
be nothing doing, “owing to £he meagre in-
ONE TO WARM HIS FEET WITH.
HIM: “My word, you women are wearing your skirts short nowadays!”
HER: “Urn, yes. But long enough for some men to shelter under, though.”
formation available and the short time which
the Department had to arrive at a reliable
estimate of cost.” Probably the Govern-
ment was right. At any rate, it is far more
important for Australian Governments to
collar for Australia the work done by
foreign manufacturers than to try to grab
the little bit of work thus far done by Aus-
tralians.
Last week the Federal Public Works Com-
mittee handed Parliament a 48-page report
on the proposed Postal Stores building in
Sydney. Without so much as glancing at
it, Parliament ordered it to be printed and
distributed galore. The Committee, which
is, of course, paid fat fees over and above
its £GOO a year, could have said all it had to
say in a line and a half, viz., that the Stores
building wasn’t required. The Government
sets out to spend £70,000 on a building that
isn’t needed, the Committee mops up a thou-
sand in finding it out, Parliament spends
more money in publishing a verbose report
that nobody will read —and so we go on prac-
tising economy and winning the war.
The Federal Government, though it is “not
going to interfere with the usual channels
through which cornsacks are imported to
Australia,” is also going to “import itself,
or through the Wheat Board, sufficient sacks
to cover a full harvest.” Heaven only knows
what the intention really is; but at present
there seem to be the makings of a horrible
muddle.
Significant headlines: —
FEDERAL SESSION.
THE REPRESENTATIVES.
MANURE MAKING.
Sydney Daily Telegraph spoke the truth
that day (16/3/T7).
Although the Victorian Venereal Diseases
Act was passed last year, the regulations
have not yet been approved by the Execu-
tive Council. Cases emphasising the need
for haste are of almost daily occurrence, but
the languid Peacock administration shows
no sign of waking up. At Richmond the other
morning a 20-year-old damsel, arrested for
assault while in company with an alleged
deserter from Langwarrin camp, was found
to be in a condition that made her a public-
menace. A certificate to this effect from
the Government Medical Officer was handed
to the Bench that dealt with the case, but,
owing to tbe absence of regulations, the Law
decided that it had no power in the matter.
Somebody or other suggested that if some-
one had a word with somebody in authority
something might be done in regard to the
regulations or something of the sort, so the
girl was remanded for seven days on the off-
chance.
Instead of Avasting time disposing of freak
motions, the F.L.L. Conference this year
might do all unionists a good turn by devot-
ing a feAv hours to the subject of union book-
keeping and audits. A union secretary was
convicted of embezzlement at last Quarter
Sessions in Sydney, and Avhen the jurymen
came to examine the chaotic books they
saw lioav easy it had been for the unfortu-
nate man in the dock to ruin himself and
beggar bis mates. A qualified accountant
gave evidence for the prosecution and helped
the defaulting secretary towards his cell —
cold comfort for the men- whose money he
had taken. The same expert’s advice and
supervision a few months earlier might have
saved one poor fellow’s reputation and the
money of many others.
STRATEGY.
THE CIVILLAN : “But why did you enlist?”
THE BILLJIM : “ Well, I got the tip that the
loss teas going to sack me, so I went
straight up to the barracks. Then he
had to promise to keep my job open for
me.”
THE GENTLE CANDIDATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Written after hearing a two-hour speech of pro-
found pathos delivered by a sentimental political
aspirant, who, it appeared, desired nothing better
than to die for his country in comfortable circum-
stances.)
Behold me where I stand and wait,
As ’twere the Peri at the gate—
I am the gentle candidate,
So soft of speech, so mild of creed,
So terrible against the greed
And wickedness of wretches who
Would blight the happiness of you. ,
Again I state
I am the gentle candidate.
I have but little heart for mirth;
My purpose is of serious worth.
It is the grandest thing on earth
To save and raise all fallen men,
To serve my country dear, and then,
When Wrong is down, and Right rides high,
To turn me to the wall and die.
The soul of me
So aches to lift humanity!
My people, grind the flesh of me
In mills of hard necessity!
All that I am i offer ye—.
If not for good that may be done,
i To spare ye then the other one,
The fiend who all fair things disowns,
And seeks to pick his country’s bones.
With hope divine
I’d have my country picking mine!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
AS IN A GLASS DARKLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rail not at ramparts reared with human hands
To break the bounds of petty human pride,
Nor curse red war, nor pray for Peace, nor chide
Some puny princeling! Lo, in hidden hands
Slow turns the glass from whence the pallid sands
Of cosmic balance, trickling slow, decide
The judgment of the gods! Poor masks, ye hide
Under your pageants their supreme commands!
Beneath their rods the man-tides ebb and flow
Like seas beneath the moon. So Asia smote ;
So, ’neath her mask of pride, her presence brave,
Where sank the West beneath the Orient wave,
Africa’s fingers fumble at the throat
Of that old Asia which laid Europe low.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


Sanies Plano
Model 94 .
PALING’S PIANOS
and PLAYER PIANOS
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogue
It contains illustrations and full particulars of the beautiful
models we are now showing, all of which are guaranteed by
us to give lasting satisfaction.
Choose any Piano or Player Piano from our Catalogue,
and you will own an instrument that, is honestly and
thoroughly built throughout—the only kind we sell.
We Sell on Time Payment
th
Victor Academy
Model.
See the • ’ .
Chappell Pianos
and Sames Pianos
When a piano leaves our showrooms we
have the satisfaction of knowing that we have
given the customer genuine value, whether the
purchase made was an exquisite Boudoir Grand,
a massive Upright Grand, or an ordinary
Cottage Model. Every piano we sell sells
another, because of its beautiful tone-quality
and extraordinary durability in severe climates.
We will gladly write
you full particulars.
yt
Hear* the . .
Estey Pianos
and Victor Pianos
If you have an old piano we shall be pleased
to take it in • exchange for a new Piano or
Player Piano, and allow you its honest valua-
tion.
We cordially invite you to call at our ware-
house and inspect the beautiful models now
showing. If you cannot conveniently call, please
Write for Free Catalogue — 9Mf!
and printed Price List.
W. H. PALING (a CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba
Newcastle & Lismore
A
V',-
fi Ar
irw I'yri //
ma
SB»M
9^S
Mil
REAM
SALT
LICKS
Make £ 1 more
per cow, per annum.
How ? Give your cows the salt they need.
Not loose salt—that is wasteful ; not Rock Salt because that becomes
unclean and unwholesome ! Give them the clean non-wasting, nour-
ishing tonic-salt known as
i
Leslie
Salt Licks
Compressed into 51b. blocks with hooks for hanging anywhere a nail can
be driven. This salt cannot harbor germs, cannot "sweat” nor waste.
One block lasts each animal 4 months. The pure sterilised salt is
combined with phosphates and other condition-building ingredients.
It aids digestion, makes your stock enjoy their food and get the full
amount of nourishment.
Increases milk yield by at least 10 per cent.
EQUALLY GOOD FOR HORSES AND SHEEP.
2/- per Block; 22/6 per Case (1 Dozen) —plus freight to
Country Districts.
Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland:
ROBERT LITTLE & CO.,
10 Castlereagh Street.
Agents for Victoria, Tasmania, S.A. and W.A.:
HOLLAND PTY. LTD.,
Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Sold by all Saddlers, Blacksmiths, Produce
Merchants and Storekeepers. 1
THE DEMON of INFLUENZA and COLDS
HAS LOST HALF HIS TERRORS
Since the advent of
Hean’s
Essence
The Famous Money*
Saving Remedy tor
Coughs, Colds,
Croup, Catarrh,
and other Chest and
Throat Troubles.
Mr. VILLIERS ARNOLD,
the Demon in “The Bunyip’’ Panto-
mime, is universally considered one
of the most successful portrayers of
the character ever seen in Australia.
Vocally his part is a heavy one; and
how he was helped in its fulfilment is
told in the following letter: —
Grand Opera House, Sydney,
Jan. 22, 1917.
Mr. G. W. MEAN,
Chemist.
Dear Sir,—-
During rehearsals of “The Bun-
yip’' Pantomime at . Sydney Grand
Opera House. I suffered keenly from
a cold in the throat, and it; was
doubtful whether I would be able
to appear on the opening produc-
tion, my part of the Demon being,
vocally, a very heavy one. I was
recommended to try HEAN’S
ESSENCE, and am glad to tell you
that I received almost instant relief.
To my intense gratification, I was
able to appear on the opening night
and sing 4n good voice.
Yours faithfully,
VILLIERS ARNOLD.
HE AN’S. ESSENCE is obtainable
from all leading chemists and stores. It
is admitfc?dly the finest cough, cold and:
sore throat remedy ever placed on the
Australian market. Besides being so good
medicinally it is also a great money-saver. Each
bottle produces a pint of ready-to-use mixture. A
pint of ordinary remedies would cost at least 12s.
Hean’s Essence costs only 2s. (by post
2/3). If not obtainable in your locality send
direct to G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
—’ —
mi&K. : . !
Sis'-fe i>i
ktu
BN
Costs 2/-
Makes One Pint.
Saves 10/-
FROM A
•PHOTO. ]*f
- GItA.GE_ BROS*.
""SYDNEY.
Mr. VILLIERB ARNOLD, as tiro
Demon in “The Bunyip”
Pantomime.


The Russian revolution gives the Hun
rank-and-file a good lead, to follow which
they need only an inspired leader, opines that
inspiring spirit King George IV. top-notch
Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLGARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIIIITED, Redfern, Sydney.
TOTALISAT OR.
Racing Clubs are advised that the Turnbull
and Jones, Ltd., of New Zealand, Totali-
sator can now be seen at W. G. Watson
and Co., Ltd., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Turnbull and Jones, Ltd., have supplied
Machines to all the principal clubs in New
Zealand, and their experience extends over
a period of 20' years. Mr. Seager, their
representative, will be pleased to make
appointments and supply full information.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Payment of first forfeit leaves 57 in the
Doncaster and 52 in the Sydney Oup, including a
dozen or two which on no reasonable grounds can
be given a chance of doing anything except get in
the way of something else. Harriet Graham and
Court Jester seem to be settling down to favoritism
for the Cup, and if all goes well with them may
stay there. Most of the betting has been in doubles,
so far, with punters holding themselves in reserve
for further inspection of the Doncaster. Whitefield
has been fairly well backed. There has been money
for Bonny Plume, and King’s Bounty seems to have
friends on tire Antarctic side of the Murray. King’s
Bounty was a runner at Caulfield last week in the
South Yarra Handicap, six furlongs. Carrying 7st.
181 b. he ran second to Durveney (7st. lib.), who
carved out the distance in He had a bad
passage, hut was doing best at the end. A smart
colt and in the Doncaster handily weighted at 7st.
51b.
* ♦ * •
One expects that the coming Sydney Cup
will be run on truer lines than last year’s event.
The good time recorded last year (3min. 24-jsee.)
suggests a fair test race; but the weather and track
conditions happened to very favorable anyhow, and
the battling circumstances gave the heavy weights a
poor show in the last mile. Also, they were mostly
off-color at the time. Not one of the first five
horses at the finish carried more than 7st. 71b., nor
were any ot the higher weights ever near the front
at any point of the race. Prince Bardolph got a
break on the field after leaving the straight, and
was j never caught. Green Cap (7st. 71b.) made up a
lot ;of ground, and finished two lengths behind the
winner; but the English horse was tiring, whilst
Bardolph (7st. 31b.) romped in. TJiey will each
have another 151 b., or more, to carry if they face
the barrier this time, and on recent form Rushford
should beat the pair. All three of them ran in the
recent Australian Cup, where Green Clap, after
making a bright effort, again tired conspicuously
in the last 50 yards. If the rich prize is going to
Victoria once more it will probably be Harriet
Graham or Court Jester who will snatch it. Nothing
was near them when -they fought out the finish of
the Australian Cup in record time. And both were
thought to be a trifle on the green side. Harriet'
is up 161 b. and Court Jester has another 131 b. to
hump. The new burdens are quite as much as these
natty little gees can easily manage, but all things
considered they are not • excessive.
In the. last 12 years nine winners of the
Sydney Cup, also nine of the runners-up, have
carried less than Bst. Eight years the going has
been more or less heavy, and the time accordingly
slow. So there is no encouragement to back top
Weights at a shortish price before the day. In fact,
the history of the race these last 20 years is a dis-
couragement of any early investment. The Doncaster
Handicap is a different proposition, for three of the
winners in the last six years—Broadsword, Jolly
Beggar and Eurobin —had run prominently in the
Newmarket, and could be legitimately fancied for
the mile race at Randwick.
Tt can easily be argued that Balarang, with 9st.
lib., is kindly treated in the Doncaster Handicap.
He receives 151 b. from Woorak, whereas there was
141 b. between them when he beat the little steam-
engine over seven furlongs at Caulfield last month.
The extra furlong should be ail in favor of the long-
striding browM fellow, who meets, also, the handsome
Whitefield on better terms than before.
Anyone looking for a fancy bet could hardly
expect more than even money against the Sydney Cup
being won by an imported nag. There are about a
dozen imported possibles among the entrants, and
several of them are highly probables.
* «■ * *
Patrobas arrived in Sydney last week
with a badly filled fore-leg, and after a course of hot
fomentations came to the conclusion that it would
be better to leave w.f.a. events at Randwick to the
,others. No serious objection has been made by the
others. It was hard luck, though, for both owner and
horse, for at least a couple of the races bore the
appearance of certainties.
* * *- *
The Autumn Meeting at Randwick had a
i preliminary phase at Rosehill on Saturday. At any
rate, some of the horses that will be at the other
place were there, though what some of them went
for this page was unable to detect. It .was a day
of disastrous happenings, five horses falling in the
first race, others coming to grief later on, and the
pulblic tumbling in all through the proceedings.
After many weeks of suffering Ike came into spine
of his own again, every favorite going down with a
heavy thud, and the two principal event’s being
appropriated by rank outsiders. Winners’ prices’:
,4 to 1, 5 to 1, 20 or 30 to 1, 6 to 1, 6 to 1, 25 to 1,
4 to li If the same thing} happens at Randwick the
increase in the cost of going a-racing will be a
•serious question.
* * * *
Coat-o’-mail is only a handful but lm
.seems very well just now. On Saturday the little
fellow ran* away with the Rosehill Handicap from
;end to end, the mile and a quarter occupying -2min.
7sec. As he galloped as if prepared to stay as long
:as a poor, relation, the fact that he is burdened with
only 6st. 101 b. in the Sydney Clip has more than a
little, significance. Coat-o’-mail is by Wallace j.
j—Daisy Chain, and there are more improbable
'things than that at some stage of the Cup he may be
taking' a hand in the argument. Among the Cup
horses behind him on Saturday were Chantemerle
(9st. 21b.), the Fortune Hunter (Bst. 131 b.) and
Canzone (Bst. 21b.). None of them were in their
best trim, though perhaps this didn't matter much.
Chantemerle, though big, was bright enough to sug-
gest that another three weeks would just about catch
him.
» * » *
The luck of Agar Wynne and W. Leonard,
owners of Tatyoon, was out a mile on Saturday/ The
colt was a starter in the first division of the Rosehill
Nursery Handicap, and when-looking like a certain -
winner faltered on three legs and a swinger.' One
of his fetlocks had broken. A bullet did the rest.
Tatyoon was in Payten’s stable, and since coming to
N. S. Wales for the New Year meetings at Randwick
had shown much promise, being one of the best of
his year. It would have required a lot of money to
buy him on Saturday morning.
The tote was given another spin in N. S.
Wales last week—at Kembla Grange. Tickets 10s.
There was nothing about it to alter this page’s
view that the system of running the machine
adopted in the Ma State is entirely destructive of
the objects sought by the advocates of the tote.
Ikey was there in great numbers, of course, and
as long as that happens the whole business is
upside down; and it is going to continue happening
while the State appropriates 7 per cent. In one
race at Kembla Grange the Moes were taking 2 to 1
on Knight Middleton. The good thing arrived and
the machine handed back 9s. on each winning ticket.
* * *
“Mujik”: I’m not expecting much from
the tote myself while Ike has the inside running, but
the people who deal with place-merchants ought to
feel a bit harmier when the machine arrives. Under
the present dispensation a 1-2-3 machine would be
a popular innovation, for the place-layer is as hungry
ah all Germany. About a fifth or a sixth of the
price for a win is about the best they do. In a
race where the betting is fairly well spread out this
is just picking up money, In a race at Rosehill on
Saturday the prices for a place were—s to 4 on in
the case of two horses, even money three, 5 to 4
against two others, 6 to 4 several more, and 2 to 1
and 3to 1. And, so far as I could see, they were all
being backed at these figures. There is only one in
a deal like this ; and if he can stay in on the same
basis against a machine the public ought to be
handed over, body and bones, to the Public Trustee.
“Trot”: At Rosehill on Saturday the
stewards had something to say to a jockey about
riding, the substance of their remarks being that if
he did no better next time his license would be can-
celled. He was not a “leading jockey” and probably
deserved to hear a few remarks. The pity is that
they are not more frequent; for not a meeting goes
by without examples of utterly brainless riding—
also of the other sort. Nothing will convince me
that jockeys should not be in the direct employment
of the racing clubs, put on hoard the horses by club
officials and ordered to report upon the condition of
each horse after every race. There is nothing im-
possible about this. There is no valid argument
against it. The allegation that a nag might win
when the owner didn’t want it to is easily met by this
—that no horse could win if it was kept in its
stable; and if it isn’t wanted to win the stable is
the proper place for it. Does anyone'know how the
public interest or the breeding of thoroughbreds
would be prejudiced if this were nrhde' a working
rule of the game?
» » * *
A capita] field of gees turned out for the
St. Kilda Cup at Caulfield last Saturday, when opti-
mistic victims of the recent V.R.C. meeting sank
deeper into the mire. Never a favorite got home, but
the widely-fancied Lavendo nearly did the trick in the
chief event. In the first mile of the journey he was
where the donkey’s tail is ; but for that he would have
added St. Kilda Cup to his winning account. As it
was, the somewhat erratic English horse caught every-
thing except his compatriot, Half-a-Glass, who led
from end to end. Judged on his best form the
winner deserved a heavier burden than 7st. 51b., and
Lavendo did well to give him 321 b. and run him to
a neck. First Trim, heavily backed, seemed to fail
for want of stamina in the last of the 11 furlongs.
* * * *
The imported nags again. Two of them
had the St. Kilda Cup all to themselves on Saturday
at Caulfield—Half-a-Glass (7st. 51b.) and Lavendo,
and it was Lavendo (9st. 91b.) that omitted to
arrive in time. Half-a-Glass, by Isinglass—Scotch
Gift, is a stable mate of Highfield’s, and on Saturday
was ridden by Dempsey. He was weighted at 7st. 51b.
in the Sydney Cup, but declined the invitation.
* » * *
“Spinner”; Am quite satisfied that there
is nothing in getting the “office.” On the Thursday
before the Newmarket in the Market Square at
Bendigo I encountered a large piece of agricultural
machinery, branded “Highfield,” drawn by a team
of eight bullocks. Turned up the paper and found
that a nag called Highfield was in the Bst. division,
was to be ridden by F. Bullock, and was eighth on
the list. Also, the time was precisely 8 a.m. by the
city clock. Plainly this was the “ciinkum oil” ; so
we took the best price on offer, which was 8 to 1—
and did in our dough.
A brand-new jockey made his appearance
in the list of winning riders at the recent Flemington
meeting. This was a youth named Valentine who
steered Bridges home in the Northcote Handicap on
the last day. He had ridden only once previously in
public ; in fact, had only six months before begun his
apprenticeship to W. Gerrard, who owns Bridges.
According to this form, Valentine’s day is not far
distant.
* * * *
“Code”: When Coronet won the New-
maiket in 1885, the owners, D. M. Robertson and
another, were said to have won £40,000. That
night they “turned it on” for the crowd at the
Newmarket hotel —bought the stock for £7OO, and
said “Let ’em all come.” And, ’strutli, how- did thev
edme 1
* » * *
“Tote Abstainer”: No more odds-on
favorites for me, thank you. I’ll let ’em run in
future and enjoy seeing them get whacked. For it’s
fair odds against them winning. Take the last
V.R.C. meeting:—
First Day,—V olaroi, 5 to 4 on, beaten bv the out-
sider Colbert, 10 to 1 against, in a field of five
(consternation). Patrobas, 5 to 2 on; won (frantic
cheering).
Third Day.—Woorak, 10 to 9 on, beaten by
Wolaroi, 6 to 1 against (hoots). Patrobas, 2 to 1
on, beaten by Aides, 10 to 1 against (groans and
gnashing of teeth).
The human form may be divine. Equine form is
quite as likely to be devilish.
* * * *
Nothing like a good cross-country race—
sometimes. In Hie Sowden Steeplechase at the Port
Adelaide meeting last week there were 12 starters.
Four of the animals fell. Two others stopped. The
winner arrived 15 lengths or half an hour or some-
thing before the judge sighted the remainder. South
Aus. used to be fairly well-off for cross-country
horses; but it is almost as bare now as the rest.
The racing clubs offer hardly any encouragement;
and “hunting” is nearly as dead in Australia as the
grandfather of last season’s grasshopper. The ground
is so infernally hard. But the sport has made a
desperate struggle to live in Adelaide, and the Hunt
Club still manages to run Hie second-biggest picnic
race-meeting of the year. For a dozen years or so
Paddy Glynn, now one of Hughes’s colleagues (and
how he must chuckle when he thinks of it!), did a
great thing to keep the weekly “hunt” alive; he
wrote for Monday’s Register a charming little half-
column literary essay about the previous week’s
‘.‘meet” ; and the farmers whose land was run over
could read their names between a quotation from
Horace and a reference to Maecenas.
“Collar-Stud”: Rumored that the Ship-
ley stud is in the market, Sol Green having decided
to give up breeding. Sol has had a fair measure of
success with his thoroughbreds, but I don’t suppose
there’s a fortune in the chancey business these times,
though there may be more kudos in it than in
making a book. Sol prefers to take the cash and let
the kudos go.
* * *
“Musketoon”: I’ll nominate Jack Clif-
ford’s pony The Boar for the long-distance-in-the-
shortest-time championship. Some time ago John
wanted to proceed from Forbes (N.S.W.) to Con-
dobolin, and, harnessing The Boar in a light buggy,
started off at 9.30 a.m. He was back at Forbes
at 7.30 the same evening. Distance 130 miles. The
Boar was 20 years old at the time. (Anyway,
that’s the driver’s story. Personally 1 have a sus-
picion the watch stopped somewhere on the trip.)
***■*.
“D.F.”: About the finest fishing ground
on the Australian coast —for line fishing, anyway—is
the submarine platform off the south coast of the
Speck. As this is about the stormiest bit of ocean to
be found anywhere, it is only occasionally that it' can
be fished ; but the fishermen reckon (or used to, for
lately the fish seem to be a bit uncertain) that they
are sure of a good boatload if they can get to work
on the bottom round the rock which Tasman’s Dutch-
man in 1642 called Piedra Blanca, but
which is now known in the vernacular as Peter’s
Bank. It’s the best real trumpeter bank on the coast,
and a great place for
perch, rock-cod and
about 25 other kinds
of fish. According to
Captain J. K. Davis,
of the Aurora, there
are shallow soundings
for about 200 miles
due south from (he
Tasmanian coast,, and
then the bottom * falls
away rather steeply.
Scientists say that
this is a sunken land,
a bit of the old land
bridge that used to
join Tasmania to Ant-
artica ’wav ,back be-
fore the Flood. Bits
of the lantt*still stick
up 20 or 30 niiles off
the coast'. There's the
Mewstone, a bare
rock 440 ft. high, and
the Eddystone, over
200 ft. high, which,
looks for all the world'
‘like a square church-
tower.
VERNON
RANSFORD
(Vic.).
The little ’uns were given a night out at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday, the fly-weight and
bantam championships being danced for. In both
cases the conflict went to the bitter end. A young-
ster named Jack Green got the verdict for flies
against A 1 White; the bantams Williams and
Holmes perpetrated _ a draw. Young Green is only
15, but has already developed an assortment of good
hard punches, the one with the right being particu-
larly emphatic. There is fighting blood in the
family, too, uncle Teddy Green being an old-time
champion.
* «• ■ » *
Herb McCoy’s idea that he could put up
a stronger fight in the welterweight division is
proving to be wrong. Either that or it happens
that the other fellow finds himself stronger still.
Whichever it is Herbert is certainly not doing so
well as a welter as he did as a lightweight. On
Saturday he got another hiding, this time at Mel-
bourne from Harry Stone. The winner had all the
best of it, boxing more skilfully and hitting more
harmfully. As early as the third round Bert was
in serious trouble. The punch that counts came over
in the twelfth clash, and once more McCoy was
carried back to the place from whence he came.
How about taking six months spell in the bush ?
* * * *
Wave Geike and Matty Smith (a country-
man of Woodrow Wilson) contributed the chief item
on the stoush menu at Brisbane on Saturday. Smith
suffered badly from ennui for the first nine rounds,
even Geilce’s continued application of straight lefts
failing to rouse him. At the tenth box-on America
suddenly began to take an interest in Geike, and in
the next round settled that industrious youth for the
evening, using a left to the chin. Smith meets Llew
Edwards next, and will need to take notice a bit
earlier in the proceedings.
* * * *
After a year’s interval for prayer and fast-
ing McGoorty is coming back to the game, and has
an appointment to interview Tommy Uren at Sydney
during Easter. At the time McGoorty was hookin’-
’em, one after another, this meeting would have
looked a bit over the odds; but as Thomas has
grown stronger in the meantime, and Edward has
not been getting either thinner or younger, there
may be an interesting exchange of smite. But the
main point will be in the revelation of how much
McGoorty has benefited by living at peace. Another
match .pending is between Dave Smith and the
winner of a conflict in which Colin Bell and Albert
Lloyd will supply the wallop. This will be for the •
heavyweight championship, though it all sounds like
the rending of the tomb.
Sam Austin, of the N’Yark Police
Gazette, denouncing the suggested scrap between
Darcy and A 1 McCoy as daylight robbery: “Time
and the Australian’s dilatory actions have taken the
edge off the public’s interest in him, and unless he
does something to encourage the idea that he is a
fighter, and came here to fight instead of grafting
from the public in the guise of an actor—God, save
the’mark! nobody will care a hoot in Hades what he
does.” Things evidently got warm in a hurry when
somebody mentioned that Darcy was to get 30,000
dollars for a scrap with a fifth-rater.
Veteran Tommy Warne, who built up a
second century this season (107 not out) for Carlton
against Northcote, has tasted much of the glory
which belongs to Victorian cricket. Many years ago
Tommy lifted a bat in representative matches; nowa-
days he keeps in nick by keeping in order the blades
of grass on Carlton ground. The Warne family, by
the way, is sufficiently numerous to form an Aus-
tralian XI.
Batting for Melbourne against P’ran the
other day, H. Ironmonger lifted the ball clean
into the M.C.C. public stand. This was a big hit,
but not the biggest. Bill Howell, best remem-
bered as an Australian XI bowler, once sent a ball
right out of the M.C.C. ground into Richmond
Park. For years it was the ambition of hefty
smiters to smash the face of the M.C.C. grandstand
clock. Time after time George Bonnor attempted
to win a standing bet from an enthusiast who had
defied him to do the deed. The man who came
nearest to doing it was George Alexander, who landed
the ball in a gutter a few inches below the clock.
A. R. Jenkins banged up liis first century
in N.S.W. premiership cricket on Saturday—los not
out for Sydney against Western Suburbs. Last sea-
son he headed the Sydney sClub's averages with 30.44
per innings, although his highest smite was only 90.
Years before that he was occupying the limelight in
S. Aus. A. .couple of other fine efforts on Saturday
were E. P. Hall’s 81 out of 170 for four wickets on
behalf of Gordon against North Sydney; and consis-
tent W. .T. Folkard’s capture for Balmain of seven
Middle Harbor wickets for 27.
* * * *
“Cleido” : Don Fleming, who went out in
tragic circumstances recently, was a sprinter of class.
But for a slow beginning he would have probably
added the Echuca Gift to his Maryborough anil
Sta Well victories. Bob Drew defeated him at Echuca.
Drew, who had turned 40 at the time, got a bit of
a break on in the first half of the journey, and
managed to reach the worsted with an inch or two
to spare. Competing in that final were J. Godfrey,
also 40, and C. Kjng, very little younger. Some
|Teds. retain their form in a surprising manner. G.
Grenell, 50, recently won a £lOO handicap at
Flemington (Vic.). A. B. Postle’s is also a case in
point. Do sprinters, as a general thing, last longer
at their game than most other devotees of violent
athletics?
* * * »
J. F. Bradley (Olympic) made two fine
sprints from scratch on Saturday in the Cardinal’s
Cup—the biggest open handicap in Sydney amateur
athletics nowadays. He won the first heat in 10sec.,
but in the final just failed to give the flying P.
Tranquille (Western Suburbs) syds. in similar time.
Two years ago Bradley was the Ma State’s best
snrinter; but a breakdown last season put him on
the shelf for repairs. There doesn’t seem to be
much wrong with him now,
* * # *
The old warrior Kismet has worried into
first place among the Sydney sailing boats, and heads
the season’s winners. Thq old champion lias won
comparatively few events, but by consistently appear-
ing among the place-getters both in heats and finals
steadily climbed to the top in the matter of prize-
money. !
* #• * *
C. Crackanthorp, the new junior (under
20) State swimming champion, who churned 100yds.
behind in 60 4-ssec. at Sydney on Saturday, looks
like climbing high. Last season Crackanthorp made
a rare splash in High School championships when he
won I.ooyds. (64 4-ssee.), 440yds., 880yds. and other
trifles, and defeated Keith Kirkland, who finished
second in all but the 50yds. Most of the starters in
Saturday’s junior championship were secretly “tried”
to cover 1 OO.yds. in less than 65sec. —which gives color
to the theory that N. S. Wales is rich in probable
swimming top-notchers.
* * * *
“F.H.E.”: Re “A.J.W.” and the s^lb.
bream. Was in the company of V. B. Simeon, of
Adelaide, when he landed a 51b. 14oz. bream at
Port Noarlunga. He caught it with a small schnap-
per hook attached to copper wire after several un-
successful attempts with bream hook on gut. Used
crayfish for bait.
* * * »
“Phfisht”: Go to, “G.R.K.,” with your
three-pound sprats (B. 8/3/’l7). My friend the
secretary of the Linton (Vic.) Anglers, after an
hour’s thrill, with cobweb tackle, grassed a rainbow
trout weighing 641 b. ; also others up to 4Alb. At
the new Moorabool Reservoir, some miles out of
Ballarat, the trout are biting phenomenally. These
fish were liberated about two years ago as yearlings,
and many up to 41b. and 51b. are being caught.
No fish under 21b. and none but the rainbow species
are amongst the hundreds that have been taken;
and any old bait scores.
* * * #
“Barney”; “Lantana” (B. 8/3/T7), by
nominating a 451 b. jewey as his heaviest, admits
catching undersized fish. That animal of tys would
only be a fair sort of bait for some of the real fish
residing in Tuggerah Lakes. For example, a 96-
pounder was caught there some time back by Cap-
tain Pullen, of North Sydney; and before that:
arrived Walter Dennis landed a member of the same
family which turned the scale at three over the'
century. Anything under Aewt. is left for the cham-
pion catchers from Sydney to annex—and tell tales
about.
* * * *
. “Foo-lar” : When will misguided gun enthu-
siasts desist from informing the newchum that to
hit a moving object witli a shot-gun you must aim
ahead of the object? For a long time I kept on
missing all my flying shots by aiming ahead of the
game, but I was at last made wise by an old hand
and since then can bag my share.
* • Hr * *
“Foo-lar” ; Has any sport ever blasphemed
because a broken-off portion of the small end of a
Winchester shell stuck in the breech after firing?
Next time it happens keep cool and insert a strong
empty shell and jam jt in as tightly as the lever
will permit. Then withdraw and the vagrant por-
tion of brass will come out adhering to the shell.
Never fails.
,** » *
Ashfield and City, having won the
semi-finals in the N. S. Wales bowls pennant com-
petition, will play off on polling-day on a neutral
green.


L
■
REG. L, (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Every Man and Woman can
have PERFECT HEALTH!
“No matter how much learning you may acquire, no matter
how you may develop your talents, no matter how much
money you may earn, if through ignorance of your own
hodv you suffer ill-health and die years before your time,
your education will have been a failure.”
Why be handicapped in life’s battle through ill-health ?
Why suffer needless aches and. pains?
Why allow yourself to become run-down, nervy, out-of-sorts,
and liable to contract the various complaints to which
mankind is subject ?
Why not become a strong, vigorous and perfectly-healthy
being, as Nature intended you to be?
Regular and proper exercise, such as I prescribe in my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy. Don’t
think that your case is the exception—it’s not. You will
find m,v exercises both beneficial and enjoyable pastime.
You will look forward to the time when you have to do
them, and find the benefits very rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my Course will
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen your
lungs and make you breathe in a natural way.
My booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-
Culture,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should
like to send you a copy. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement, and post it to me. I will know
what you mean. Send ihree penny stamps for postage.
591 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
LLOYD'S (London)
BRIAR PIPES.
4/6
48 Different Shapes
ALL ONE PRICE.
4/6
I should like you to try one of these pipes
—as I can highly recommend them as being
most exceptional value.
The mounts are English Hall-marked Silver,
and the pipes are guaranteed not to crack
or burn within a reasonable time.
Any Shape, only 4/6 post free.
ktyi
No. 4
No. 9
10. 10
No. 3
Mr illustrated catalog illustrates a great
variety of shapes. Send for a free copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
n
&
EVERY DAY FILL UP ON
’SHELL'
benzine
illJ.
\Y7hen you want
’ * a Soap to cleanse
the skin thoroughly, keep it
in healthy condition, and
remove all traces of
perspiration —get
toilet Soap
A good Soap to choose for
everyday use—pure, pleasantly
perfumed and antiseptic.
In 3 tablet boxes—from
local Chemists & Dealers.
Made by F. C. CAI.VERT & CO.
Manchester, England.
\
1
(a)
m
r
Sndianv ower
Makes “INDIAN” the Motorcycle supreme
on Hill, on Track, and with the Side-Car.
Catalogue “ D ” with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd..
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Mllledge Bros. Ltd.
166 Castlereaoh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE :
Eyes 4 Crowle Ltd.. 76-79 Pirle St
LAUNCESTON :
John King 4 Sons Ltd., Charles St
PERTH :
Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency,
Hay St.
PATON
8066
/
, .-v. £****' *
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
]all Mills,
übe Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
the fine style, perfect fit and high quality of
Rigney Shoes.
They have a character and individuality
that give distinction to the wearer.
We illustrate a choice All-Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike “perfect.”
Price - - 40/-
Postage 9d. extra.
EVERYBODY ADMIRES-
r
v
/j
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High.grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
■iipjpMMiaMMMim
m/te
3/ermore
Smile
•»rm»
■iiilii
■iiii
mm
m&mtm
tm
mm
mm
mm
wh
TZ
You know this smile—but do you know-
EVERMORE
Shjd^
STKOPPER
Price 15/-
The only automatic Stropper
which sves the true Sh/de-Stroke
so essential in any
itfipr.
Special adapters are provided
with each Stropper for the,
sharpening of &ny make of
softy -razor blade both si ise
and double ec^pd.
m
Dotted
“Arrows snovy
Diagonal
Rd3of
K~X '
? c V
'Ask YourDeahr
io Vemorisimteit
R«»p gses /Jow wher
hand pdfe
I
nOf
WiSP
£K*8£1
:^oieS : \ : iobs r <£j> &, Sydney
on me n g p. <y ' ;/' - *
GOING W
K.irpr Up
v*hen JogW hand


Recipe to Darken Grey Hair
This Home-made Mixture Darkens Grey
Hair and Relieves Dandruff.
To a half-pint of water add :—-
Bay Rum .. loz.
Orlex Compound a small box
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used.
A half-pint should he enough to darken
the grey hair and relieve dandruff. It does
not stain the scalp, is not sticky or greasy
and does not rub oil. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy.—An vt! [4
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, Just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms vyiih Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
¥4
St
m
i
$
as
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain—known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unablp to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “jump”
—you get irritable—you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
mm
The Wine of Life
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
‘Wincarnis’ for ‘Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over- 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
' Wincarnis ' is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO.. Lid., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ' Win-
carnis ’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/- and 6/6. but if
you experience any difficulty in obtaining
it, write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents. Fassett & Johnson, 233, Clarence
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BELLEVUE
HOTEL
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner. A. FIHNIOAV.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
SKF
Self-aligning Ball-bearing
Plummer Blocks
BY
return 50%
to 100% on
your outlay
Adapter bearing
as used in
Plummer Blocks.
Cutting: your power
bill down
Almost eliminating:
lubrication costs—
-1
Doing away with
Attention--
This combination pays the cost of the
S.K.F. installation in from 9 to 18 months,
so is a sound business proposition.
2
Radial bearing showing
Self-aligning.
Call and inspect the article itself.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
MELBOURNE: 57 Queen Street) SYDNEY: 334 Kent Street;
BRISBANE: 369 Queen Street.
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS*
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ly
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
BosfocJL
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents: —•
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
HIGH day and holiday shoes, for wear on
extra-special occasions with the extra-
special gown, ought, one feels, to have
something distinctive about them, some-
thing that lifts them above the shoes for every-
day wear and tear. It is this distinctive, this
different look, that makes the charm of the most
elegant shoes in the Bostock range, the delightful
little black satin shoe here illustrated, for ex-
ample. One has only to glance at the picture to see
that here is something very smart and desirable.
Then think of it on, showing daintily, captivat-
ingly, beneath the flounced or scalloped hem of
the summer'gown. Nothing could be more appro-
priate or more charming. And with all its
daintiness and piquancy, it is the most comfortable
and well-fitting of shoes, as indeed are all those
short-fronted styles, and will suit most women,'
giving that ease, lightness and coolness which the
Australian climate requires.
Bostock No.
P 64 I 4
A
a
I
V..
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
527
Bostock shoes are unmistakable. The name is on
every pair, and they are sold at all leading stores.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
HELLO, DIRTY BOOTS!-
Bostock’s Shoe Polishes will make you clean and bright.
A little Bostock’s, a little rub- —result, a brilliant and lasting shine. Preserves
as well as polishes! Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, and White.
In tins, 6d. Creams: In 2oz. Tubes, 6d.; 4oz. Bottles, 1/-
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD.- SYDNEY.
PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Great racket broke out in the night.
With stirring hair we sat in bed
And listened in increasing fright
To cries that might have waked the dead.
One rang a bell, one beat a tin —
Shrill whistles added to the din.
A baritone Gargantuan
Sang in a fit of frenzy born.
And, somewhere near, a frantic man
Was blowing on a bullock horn,
While many howled, and did not cease.
She whispered: “John, it must be Peace!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
The claim recently made by the New York
Mining and Engineering Journal on
behalf of Bovyser’s Reserve Co., Johannes-
burg, for record shaft-sinking is disputed by
Johnson, of the Ora Banda (W.A.). Bovy-
ser’s sank, with 30 natives working three
shifts, 252 ft. in 31 days; but with white
Australian labor Johnson reckons he went
down 331 ft. in the same time. And he can
produce scores of witnesses to prove it.
“Saint”: There is one kinema man in
Wellington (M.L.) who isn't quite asleep.
When the old Mararoa went ashore at the
entrance to the harbor he was first on the
scene in a launch, and from that unstable
refuge “took” a general view of the stranded
vessel. Then he boarded her from a dinghy
and exposed more film from the deck. A
hurried return to town and some hours’
strenuous work resulted in the film being
shown in the theatres that night.
“Bonnie Mary of Argyle” must be one of
the oldest of popular tenor ballads, for
Carry Nelson, who recently died in Eng-
land at the age of 79, was a daughter of
the composer of the eminently sentimental
ditty. . Carry was the last of the Sisters
Nelson, burlesque actresses who toured the
world in days of yore, and are fondly remem-
bered by a few old identities in Melbourne
and Sydney.
. “F.N.T.” : This is an appeal to Austra-
lians to go and see a picture-play which was
hatched in tire U.S.:—
Hey, folks! Pilly Winks in The Dynasty of Dol-
lars. You’ll sure enjoy it! It’s one of Pill’s best!
Do we rush these American drummers be-
cause of or in spite of such advertising?
Isn’t the Australian vernacular good enough
for Australians?
“Wat” from a new rendezvous,:—
More Australians are seeing Sierra Leone than
ever expected to. The harbor of Free Town,
the capital, is very large and very picturesque, but
the entrance abounds with shoals. Lately an Aus-
tralian ship found one of the mudbanks and lost
her propeller, with the result that her complement
had to be distributed among other vessels in port.
From our ship a few cases of meningitis were put
ashore. I feel sorry for the poor wretches, as it is
terribly hot here, being only eight degrees above
the Equator. If you look at the map you will find
Sierra Leone on the bulge in the Gulf of Guinea,
above the Gold Coast. These Equatorial waters teem
with sharks, and since we have been in the harbor
they have been swimming around the boat all day-
big, wild fellows, anything from 15ft. to 20ft. long.
The berthing facilities are poor, and most of the
landing has to be done in juriks. The town, purelv
native, begins with a bad smell and ends with a
worse. It is the kind of place an Australian might
read about but would never believe existed. The shops
are built of any old rubbish, mostly boxes. The
worse the shop the more extortionate the demands ;
and if the man can’t sell he begs. The police
buildings appear to be the only ones intended to
endure: they are of concrete. The weirdest thing
after the aroma is the music: we had a choice oppor-
tunity of hearing a little of it. because a local chief
was making some sort of procession, surrounded by
a guard of magnificently-proportioned negroes.
“Quidam”: In these days when every jam-
tin has its net weight printed on it. why
shouldn’t tobacco manufacturers be obliged
to show the weight of plugs on the article?
Ihe mystic figures “si” or are cer-
tainly displayed on the end of the boxes, but
any experienced storekeeper invariably keeps
that side away from the public, and when
questioned on the subject, usuallv thinks
there are “about” four plugs to the 'lb. Any-
way. the brand of tobacco that the ordinary
storekeeper still “thinks” averages “about”
four plugs to the lb., as it reallv did when
he used to sell it at Is. sd. per plug, is
packed in cases bearing the symbol “44” on
the end, although the retail price is now Is. 6d.
per plug. Only an expert mathematician can
work out the present price per lb. of some
brands, assuming that, ho can got a private
view of the box, which he generally can't.
It seems anomalous that the purchaser of a
mere luxury like jam should be put wise to
the weight, while he who indulges in a
necessity like tobacco should be kept in
blackest ignorance.
It is emphasised at everv meeting of its
members that the “National” Federation is
“a purely non-party organisation, devoted to
winning the war.” The matter was put much
more honestly by Plain, M.L.A. for Geelong,
when he told the new Middle Park branch
that the aim of the Federation was to get “a
majority behind a Government prepared to”
do something or other. Shorn of all flum-
mery, the purpose of the Federation is to
help Billy Hughes keep his job.
There are signs that the agreement of
amusement managers in Adelaide not to
advertise in the Tlser because it supported
the Amusement Tax Act is wearing thin.
Bonython is an awkward opponent to bump
against, and he hands out slabs of praise to
such shows as make use of his paper. Also
there appear in the ’Tiser sundry ads. for
and notices of shows that are meantime pro-
claiming in Register and Herald that
those papers alone have any authorised
announcements. Last week things got as
far as the start of legal proceedings against
one of the “honorable understanding” lot by
some of the others, witn an appeal to
Injunctions and Mandamuses, and other
fearsome beasts that live in the Supreme
Court. The effect may be to cement the
bonds again, or it may not. At any rate,
as late as the middle of March the “Impor-
tant!” manifesto to beware of all unauthor-
ised ads. was still being put forth by
Royal, Tivoli. Majestic, King’s, West’s,
Wondergraph, Empire and Pav.


FOR AUSTRALIA —MLGGITT’S.
. 1
w
m
a
XL
H
PAINTERS, Help to make Australia prosperous by using Meggjitt’s Linseed Oil,
made by good Australian Workmen at Parramatta.
For full particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
S»/tIW>V
N.S.W.


li
'■m
Mm
Sleep
or
iaby
Rest for Mother
is not usual whilst Baby is teething. Usually
when the little one starts teething the trouble-
some days and sleepless nights begin for both
Mother and Baby.
"When the child is about four months old
troubles due to dentition will-be noticed.
FISHERS
Teething Powders
should be in the house, and given
according to directions, as soon as any Jf* the
following symptoms occur. Restlessness during
sleep; sudden feverishness, especially when the
temperature rises at night; tender, swollen or
hot gums; excessive dribbling; eruptions or
pimples show on the head, neck or body; the
stomach, becomes upset, diarrhoea or constipation
follow, and in the more severe cases, convulsions
Avoid these troubles by administering Fishers
Teething Powders, 1/- a box of 20 powders;
2/6 a box of 60 powders.
We guarantee them not to contain Opium,
Morphia, Calomel, nor any injurious ingredients.
Homoeopathic and Dispensing: Chemists,
E2&TP337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W;
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
ui
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Meats Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
mocJel. Ninety-six degrees ' of sound in eight
'"c lriI ' l,S| instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
■CHRISTIES
iSPECIAUSS
TWO
L/MES
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/INC
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
r '
m i
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
1C /iONTER § T NEWCASTLE
cx^c/ima
CURES ECZEMA.
The hot summer days bring about a variety of
skin diseases, from prickly-heat to eczema. All are
more or less distressing in their effects, and any-
thing which will give relief and effect a cure is
welcome. Exzerma has proved its worth as a cure
for all this class of skin complaints. From all parts
of the Commonwealth people ha.ve . written Mr. S.
Fielder bearing testimony to the wonderful proper-
ties of Exzerma in curing obstinate cases of eczema,
prickly-heat, etc. [6
All Chemists and Druggists,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick.
5/-, 2/6
AVON
A TYRES.
More Miles •for Your Money.
. The
TRESS,
reg¥ mark
guarantees
m
Hats
capS
AND
Of <3/1 Frrsl-c/asfi, f/afl&rs fhroughouf fhe Common wealth
WHOLESALE ENCLAND
Q u §( it r L
Finish
Miss Gladys Cooper Explains
Some Beauty Secrets.
The Popular London Star Favors Simple Methods.
I have been asked to give a few simple recipes that I know, either through personal
use or by observation, to be valuable to the toilet, and which are within the reach of the
average woman. In these days of £lOO facial treatments and elaborate and expensive
eautitying processes my suggestions may read like lessons in economy, but they are
. ,< e £ pe ?. y s °„ feuded. They are merely practical suggestions, in which the keynote
* s , , eaectiveness. All the materials or ingredients which I mention are either already
J? an< ? m home or may be readily procured from the chemist. Fortunately Ido not
sutrei from the ailments or troubles enumerated below, but some people who are not so
mtunate have told me their experiences, and with your permission I will set forth some
remedies which they have found to be efficacious.
Home-made Hair Tonic.
My acquaintances say that a good stimulant
to the natural growth of the hair is boranium.
A very simple, effective and safe stimulating
lotion made up by mixing one ounce of bora-
nmm with i pint of bay rum. This may be
applied to the hair roots occasionally with the
finger-tips with good results.
Complexion Renewals.
Complexion experts advise me that a normal,
healthy complexion is constantly renewing it-
self by dropping off tiny flakes of worn-out
tissue, thus revealing the fresh young skin
underneath. They sa.v that when this process
is checked by age, expo-
sure or some of many
causes, the complexion
becomes dull and ugly.
The rational treatment
recommended is to help
the skin perform the
natural functions of
“shedding” worn-out' tis-
sue. For this purpose, I
am informed, there is
nothing so good as pure
mercolized wax, used for
a few nights, just as you
would use a face cream.
It is claimed that it pos-
sesses a special affinity
for the effete scarf-skin,
which it quickly removes
by absorbing it. The face.
I am assured, will soon
look much younger and
prettier under this treat-
ment.
The Curling Iron.
Don’t use a hot iron to
cur] your hair. Some of
my friends make the cun-
ningest sort of curls
wherever they want
them simply by damp-
ing the hair with liquid
silmerine before retiring
at night. When the hair is dry in the morn-
ing it will be softly curly just where you
want it to he. This method is perfectly harm-
less, even beneficial to the hair, and the curls
last a long time. The liquid is quite pleasant
and neither sticky nor greasy.
How to Shampoo.
Most women, I am informed, do not know
how to use stallax properly when shampooing
with it. Unless the hair is naturally very
oily, a stallax shampoo may sometimes leave
it rather dry. But I am told if you will apply
olive oil freely to your hair and scalp just
before shampooing with stallax, the result is
most delightful. The hair will be left clean,
soft, bright and wavy, the olive oil having"
properly balanced the action of this wonderful
hair cleanser.
Is Powder Necessary?
A great many women object to using pow-
der, for various reasons. The following
formula is a good one: Dissolve an ounce of
MISS GLADYS
Photo Wrather & Buy.
COOPER.
) cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of water, or
witch-hazel, and use it as a face lotion,
smoothing the skin with the lingers until it
is dry. This method is perfectly harmless.
I am told that a really beautiful, natural, vel-
vety bloom results and remains for many hours
quite unaffected by the most trying conditions
out of doors or in the ballroom or theatre,
and that it gives a much more natural appear-
ance to some skins than does ordinary powder.
Grey Hair.
I have observed many attempts of many
people to conceal grey hair. Some of these
experiments were amusing, some disastrous,
and some were success-
ful. Personally I believe
I shall let my hair turn
when the appointed time
comes, but if I were
foing to try to evade it,
would give a trial to a
real old “grandmother”
formula that would prob-
ably do the work. This
formula. I am informed,
has been used with de-'
grees of success for many
generations, and consists
merely of two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite
mixed with* three ounces
of bay rum. It is ap-
plied to the grey hair
a few times with a small
sponge, and ladies tell
me it appears to darken
the hair to a natural
shade, not like a dye. hut
gradually and naturally.
Miscellaneous Hints.
A few useful hints from
my friends on aids to
beauty, are as follows:
The eyebrows and lashes
may be made to grow
stronger and darker by
applying mennaline, a
specially delicate pomade, with the finger-tips
at night.
Rouge is often obvious, and many women
therefore prefer to use powdered colliandum,
which gives a most natural tint.
The lips may be prevented from drying and
chapping by touching them with a stick
of prolactum, which also gives them a good
color.
Freckles are most effectively combated with
ammoniated mercury creams, of which jetta-
line is the best.
Note.—This interesting article on beauty
culture in general was written by Miss Gladys
Cooper at the request of -the manufacturers of
Pilenta Soap—the best complexion soap in the
world. On sale by all chemists. [4
• •
• 9
s
#•
EASY SHAVING
no longer a
Barber’s Secret
Men with tough, wiry beards; men with tender
facet; men who worry the best barber while shaving
themi men who could never before hone a razor into
decent shape, are writing us every day about the smooth,
maty shaves they are getting with the Perforated Hone.
The Perforated Hone is the only one made that can be used
oy the ordinary man; Use your finest blade or your poorest, give a
few strokes or hone all day, the result will be the same —a perfect
•have. The perforations prevent wire-edge and make it
impossible for you to over-set your razor. They automat-
eally produce a perfect keen shaving edge. The Perforated Hone is made
from an exceptionally fine natural »tone found in British Columbia. It lasts a
lifetime.
Keeps New Razors Keen and True.
Try.one —if it doesn’t make your razor shave to your satis-
faction return it to us and get your money back.
Sold everywhere at <47«» or post free 4-l4> from: —
Tlie Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 16-128 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. [1
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re cpntributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Ailsa K.: Some facility, but your joke
could have been neatly coffined in eight lines....
Bowe M.: Why not send your enthusiastic rhapsody
upon The Bulletin to some -paper that would appre-
ciate it —say, the S. M. Herald? Flo: This
paper is too-much married to become interested in
your garrulous flapper’s philosophy... .Stephen: The
worst this week:—
The Zulus from fair Afric land *
Have gone to France to give a hand:
Black’s their color, but in their heart
Flows the blood of a warrior bold ; depart
The Huns in haste when they see
The oncoming hordes of Destiny!
When khaki men put on women’s white,
And Zulus black come o’er to fight
What must the Hun think he is,
When all these come to settle his biz ?
The medicine is very bitter,
For a Zulu is a hard hitter!
....Eric B.: The worst feature of your “original
verse” is that it isn’t verse... .Master Donald: Keep
on playing marbles. . . .G. 8.: Ail right, but lacking
just the touch that would make it poetry....
Groper: If you did have to sleep in a fowl-house
why boast of it? E.D. (N.S.W.) Your per-
sistent efforts to rhyme serum with come almost
charm us.. . .P.C.: No. .. .Dead Oak : Ring-barked.
.. . .W. Martell: Too thin... .Aorai: Ditto. v . .Agem:
Thanks, but modesty forbids... .L.M.G.: Still
bumpy. Make a par. of it: the odds are that you’re
a better par.-manufacturer than a poet. . . . Marloo :
The point of that yarn is as obvious as a pawnshop
on fire. .. .C.F.L.: Since you ask us so politely,
they’re not good enough.... Stanley O. B.: “Heroes’
Feast” more promising, but still too garrulous. .. .
A.P.A.: Mere words C.K.: One might do as a
gag. .. . Buyar: Try it on your local church publica-
tion .... A Reject: Wo concur: you could have said
it in 12 lines instead of 12 stanzas. .. .Kevin K.:
Would have a better chance if you shortened it by
fialf.... Vandemonian : Trivial.... Glenusk : Your
“Light that Failed” was never lit. . . .T. 11. Evans:
Thanks, but can see no benefit to be gained from it.
Couldn’t reproduce anyhow.... Goose Green: You say
it all right, but it’s all been said before, and more
concisely.... Lallen: “One Who Lost” lost because
hist metre makes him say “doth follow” and “did
shine” when he meant “follows” and “shone.” There
weft other reasons. .. .H. Cec.: One has a chance. .. .
W.B. (W.A.): As you say, “the couplet don’t look
too good”. .. . M.8.P.: Draws a blank —almost a
blanky... .Lauder: As dreary as Hansard....
Catherine MeD.: Hopeless... .C.J.Mac.: Begins
brightly, but fizzles 0ut....W.1.: Pathos put on
with a trowel. By the way, if you try elsewhere,
alter the name of vour cafe. There’s one of that
name in Sydney, and it might be annoyed. .. .Percy
I!.: Much obliged. Glad you think so, but we
couldn’t let you say it... .Fighting Spirit: Send it
.to Director of Recruiting Mackinnon, He’ll advise
you... .Bluey: Never mind such tripe as “he sallied
forth” ; get to your gag quick. The gag in this
instance is worth ,0d Ba'k Bloxi Truth is mighty
and will prevail \ but you give it a" hard tussle... .
G. Arden H.: If you think you can pass up a bag
of chaff and expect us to find the grain of oat it’s
your mistake. Send in the grain and keep the
rest... .G.H.E.L.: Don’t understand you, but if
you’re sceptical about that old iniquity you’re
wrong... .Hecagus : Soak the keels in water., once or
twice. .. . A.G. : “Psalm of the Citizen” not worth
chanting. . . .Cobber: That plan answered for a while,
but you caidt gamble on it n0w.... Reggie: Best
plan is to send it to Senator Gardiner. . ..11. Dawson
(France): Thanks; good luck.... AY. Charn : “Inter-
mittent” is a sketch that grips; but we had one a
while ago built on the same situation.... Edo: No
hope of getting through unless we can submit proofs
with the article. .. .Mark VII,s Thanks; but the
point has been already taken.'.. .Louis T.: Pretty,
and pretty thin... .A.H.M'. •' Evidently you read the
American magazines. So do we. .. . A.T.M.W.: Your
“Balm” is soothing, but we never want to be soothed
on a Monday morning. .. ,F. Reg. A.: Sorry, unsuit-
able. . .Marmaduke Backblocks: An idea in “Foxes,”
but it is poorly expressed Fraser K.: Your
threat to send more may cheer the P.M.G. » It doesn’t
exhilarate us. .. .Napier: Remarks on “cemeteries,
funerals and epitaphs I have met” received and
forwarded to the hon. sec. of the Royal Society of
Bald-headed Undertakers. .. .Editor Stewart Island
Gazette : Brother, with paper as expensive as the
girls one is unable to get rid of, it can’t be done. .. .
Caly : Lord Lytton? Can’t find him in Johns’s AVho’s
AVho in Australia. Eugene Aram is also missing.
AVhat union was he secretary of?. .. .Snooks: Greatly
cheered to learn that you “dropped a silent tear into
your sleeve.” Don’t know what a silent tear is,
but, if it’s a new industry, keep going.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.W .: Sorry, can’t use them. .. . A.D.L.: Too
obvious... .D.R.: Good as suggestions.... F.F.: Old.
Pity you cut up a useful map to do it 0n....L.A.:
They are not like life and they don’t resemble death.
....M. & D.: Evidently a product of Lunacy-lane.
.... D.L.M.: Ancient idea —poor sketch.... G.K.: A
sad product artistically.... E.E.M.: Fails both
ways....Ah Gee: Smart. Wi 11 use if opportunity
offers.
"Brig” : I sent a wireless message from a
hospital ship at the rate of lid. per word.
1 paid 10 elevenpences for a reply, and when
it flew hack from the shore I was refunded
4s. 2d. and told that the rate from shore to
ship was (id. The handling either way is
identical, so the difference in the charges is
a glaring inconsistency. A mate also pre-
paid a reply ; but although he handed up lid
a word, nothing was refunded. The ordi-
nary charge otf the Australian coast is 6d.
per word. Surely the Navy, which controls
the land stations, can arrauge that the
returning Australian soldier at least pays no
more than the stay-at-home civilian.
Though Australia cannot get the one
choice flower she wants and has been pro-
mised —Protection—quite a few bouquets, as
Page calls them, are being handed out by
the Win-the-War (you bet!) Government.
The Bananaland sugar-growers have been
handed a lily; the hop-growers are to re-
ceive a-er-daisy; the wheat-growers are—
excused the duty on bags; the Tasmanian
millers are to have half the cost of trans-
porting wheat from the mainland shouldered
by the community-in-general. Of course
there is no bribery in this; it is merely
"assisting the producer in a time- of stress”
—said time of stress occurring this year be-
tween March 3 and Mav 5.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP n()ME.
At the War.
0\
'
&
Hi
l' < HiM
S-
;< w
IK
ar
Set
’• S'fty)?*:',:
mm*
<:m a'c
ft- v
<* v«■ » J-v Vt
<•) ° -
;A
mmmm
ii® n
m
I
g*
\Hftl
V&B/:
If
ifSI
St'-V'
3&>J
' a
•:>:;
1
If
2$
■;
tl
*
■L-,-'"--V
m
H, \
I
« J i
p&r-i
E 8 >■■
7' :
33
H
£
m
.% i'm
Ml
mmm
«! r
>\St
I, $
::' v
im
m
SSS
$
sg
■4
w
m
II
-.vtf
,•' a
SS
3$
H
7/S
a
B*3
1
*
*: ?S
a 4$
:v, 0 ©5
:-;• r* :
m
i ; i
’•'l
<TS
m&x
&2MM
S
3V.
S 5
»
S’
as
SSjKS
w.<s
s>7'|
H'i
<7&v?
ugSMife
■^sl^Sp
V
11
y/fpi
iW
‘*B®&S
505
325*
#?3S®BB
M
#/ 5 -
o
ft
m
mi
y?
Si
r_y
sg
r
MM
jSgS
>'?'
safe
V
rse?
; :
Sr?'
fiSMii
■
P :
S 8
!§s
■- r ' :- -
o;X
.rfJNk
..svA:- ■-.;
1
yitoi
MiMiig
ra
\
a
yWM
\/
7
¥ :|S
<asi
m*
' ,r... v
da
, -
■■ • "
c* t. \
r&ja- \
-a :
'~X'~-
m
7
m: i
' X
'sMfW&m
■%*om
■i \l
6
7 O ’“J £ C/ I P
t*
Cobra,” 15he Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo
Put the Turks in
Bagdad through.
Chunder, with his
%
Lance in rest,
Drove the foemen
North and west.
Bear and Dog,
Close at his heels,
Laughed to hear the
O
Turkish squeals.
Quick, clean job ! ”
Says everyone.
“Quite the best that
COBRA’S done!”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Place.
Sydney. j
— i
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances? permitting): —
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
"ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) t
MACKAY f
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
13URWAH (Cargo only).
Loaves Sydney, March 24.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 28.
Leaves Sydney, March 31.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, April 4.
Leaves Sydney, April 7.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. andW.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Reaves Sydney, March 31.
‘Passengers only.
Pull Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking:, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
authorised capital .. .. £2,000.000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Un £1,198,079
RESERVE FUND
£95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Ma it ic Sum, don, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Blanches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY'(Chairmati) ; The Hon.
S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NFW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORT D
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 O'
Paid-lip Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . .. . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.09L669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) •
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq’•
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— XV, V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BUISHANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imiteil.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£2,000,000 0
1,900,000 0
2,000,000 0
£5, 900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Djbbs.
General Manager: 11. It. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of Bern Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . . . . 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
Itfajr) 'UOIUBS ‘if!.-I ‘pUß[
R3 Z A\3NJ ‘BIJB.U'IIV uo
ISiitain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest, tor
fixed periods, and
transacts all 'other usual Banking; business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (X.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALI.-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around tiie World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
* The Paradise
of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in tiie Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
■
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors
£3,705,320
£2,725.000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
The lion. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
The lion. Edmund \V. Eosbery, C.AI.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
G., M.L.C.
Auditors: A. G. Milsor), Esq.; W. 11. Palmer. Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
■T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
drt
JM Australia
SYDNEY. a
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every .description transacted within the Common*
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1 /-
Minimum
Deposit
2600
At a.ll Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and. Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE
JAMES KELL, Deputy Gorernor.
and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.-
1916 DENISO.V MILLER, Goreruor
SAVING MONEY
systematically has a twofold reward —it develops character and builds up capital
which can be turned to good use.
This Bank Offers You Every Facility for Saving.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards. Interest paid at p.c. on every £up to £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State. No Agencies at Post Offices.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank that pays 3} per cent, interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULP PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Thursday
April 5 am) Friday
May 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, March 24.
MORIALTA, March 31.
RUPARA, April 7.
~ Sal°on Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained op application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILiLi & CO.. LTI).,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY’.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Wimmera,”
"Ulimaroa,” "Victoria.”
"Riverina/’ "Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POItTS
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AinE R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
• via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
v ppiy OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
I.urge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWItAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES Sc CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination tickets are issued m conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
-reamer. TG.Ss. Gd. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Tooth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes,. crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
,4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
Containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia ahd news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tho
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


X
X
■2
i
v.
9
\\ie tyres
o/>
«fe
2
&
0
•?:
<J
£■
n
m
!
T
m
D
7
O
3000 rjICHELIN
WITH
COLOURS
MICHELIN
AEROPLANES
ARMY TYRE
SUPPLIES
and
The MICHE-UN HOSPITAL
THE MICHELIN SHELL FACTORY
Michelin lyres obtainable from ail leading dealers
<?
BEFORE.
V
AFTER
FOR
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(dPILLGRINE
The results obtained from the
use of CAPILLARINE as a j
Moustache grower are regarded as i
wonderful bv all who have ex- 1
perienced its merit. It is a
genuine Moustache producer.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 5 Y c L e “ r / Y e st -
Established over SO Years.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15!)6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
UMP
Agents:
Bennett SBarkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
The Trusty Triumph is
' a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
at
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
V
<5C
hw
The soft, crumbly, porous min-
eral in Bon Ami rtibs out the
grime and grass stains from
white canvas or white leather
shoes. It works like magic, re-
storing the true original white-
ness.
The special shoe whiteners do
not really clean at all —they
only paint over the dirt with a
tl J V^P^^For all the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing* Cleaning
It cleans white shoes, too!
chalky paste that soon flakes off
again.
Take off the dirt with Bon Ami
and you won’t need any whitener.
And your shoes will look new
and clean instead of having that
pasty painted-up look.
Bon Ami is also for windows and
mirrors. It is a fine metal polish.
Good for tile and bath tubs-
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it.”
SAFEGUARD YOOR HEALTrt
QtJXollis Brownes
CMorodyj>e
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
anil in the Cough of BRONCHITIS anil
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, lf3, SJ-, SJ-.
Made in England.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the ISritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
RUDYARD KIPLING.
A DIVERSITY OF CREATURES.
Stories by RUDYARI) KIPLING.
Bombay Edition. 21s. net. Edition
dc Luxe, 2 vols., 10s. 6d. net each.
Uniform Edition, Gs. Pocket Edition,
Cloth, 4s. 6d. net; Leather, ss. net.
[March 30.
SEA WARFARE. By RUDYARD
KIPLING. Containing “The Fringes
of the Fleet,” “Tales of ‘The Trade,’ ”
and “Destroyers at Jutland.” Do-
minions Edition, 3s. Qd.
THE NEW PACIFIC: BRITISH
POLICY AND GERMAN AIMS.
By C. BRUNSDOX FLETCHER.
With a Foreword by the lit. Hon.
W. M. HUGHES, Prime Minister of
Australia. With Portraits and Map.
"EDMUND GOSSE.
THE LIFE OF ALGERNON
CHARLES SWINBURNE. By
EDMUND GOSSE, C.B. With por-
traits and other illustrations.
PROF. J. LAURENCE RENTOUL.
AT VANCOUVER’S WELL AND
OTHER POEMS OF SOUTH AND
NORTH. By J. LAURENCE
RENTOUL, Author of “From Far
Lands: Poems of North and South.”
4s. 6d. net.
“At Vancouver’s Well” falls into six sec-
tions: I. The Song of the Well. 11. The Well
of The Wanderers. 111. The Well of the Nation-
Founders. IV. Mv Childhood’s Well. V. The
Well of the Heart. The volume concludes with
a series of Poems called forth by the War.
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE’S
NEW POEMS.
STRAY BIRDS. Poems by Sir
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. With
Frontispiece in Color by WILLY
POGANY. 4s. Gd. net.
LIVELIHOOD. Dramatic Reveries.
By WILFRID WILSON GIBSON,
Author of “Friends,” “Battle,” “Bor-
derlands,” “Daily Bread,” etc. 3s. Gd.
net.
FAITH OR FEAR? An Appeal to
the Church, of England. By DONALD
lIANKEY (A Student in Arms),
WILL I A M SCOTT PALMER,
HAROLD ANSON, F. LEWIS
DONALDSON, and CHARLES 11.
S. MATTHEWS (Editor). 3s. Gd. net.
Everyman : “‘Faith or Fear?’ makes one
think, and turns our minds to mercy, justice,
peace and faith that removes mountains, and
the love that hopeth all things.”
NATURE AND ADVENTURE IN
AUSTRALASIA. For Boys and
Girls. By JANE A 1 >A FLETCHER.
Illustrated. Is. Gd.
ELEMENTARY DYNAMICS OF
THE PARTICLE AND RIGID
BODY. By 11. J. A. BARNARD,
M.A., Professor of Mathematics,
Royal Military College of Australia. Gs.
W. 8 A. K. JOHNSTON’S WAR MAPS.
THE BALKAN STATES. Size
25 x 20 inches. ’ Colored Cloth
Folded. Is. 3d. net. Unmounted
Sheet. Gd. net.
THE MIDDLE EAST, illustrating the
campaigns in Mesopotamia, _ Persia
and the Caucasus. Size 35 x 23
inches. Colored Cloth Folded, Is. Gd.
net. Unmounted Sheet, Gd. net.
EUROPE, SHOWING ALL THE
WAR AREAS. Size 40 x3O inches.
Colored Cloth Folded, 2s. net. Un-
mounted Sheet, Gd. net.
BELGIUM AND NORTH-EAST
FRANCE. Showing main roads and
railways. Size 25 x 20 inches.
Printed in Colors. Unmounted Sheet,
Gd. net.
(1) BETWEEN PARIS AND BER-
LIN.
(2) BETWEEN PETROGRAD AND
BERLIN.
Including the whole of Austria and
showing the Italian Frontier. Size
40 x 30 inches. Colored. Cloth
Folded, Is. Gd. net each.
ROLF BOLDREWOOIh
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS. P,v
ROLF BOLDREWOOD. Re-issue.
Sewed, Is.
MACMILLAN S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
3s. 6d. per Volume.
A NEW STORY BY STELLA
BENSON.
THIS IS THE END. By STELLA
BENSON, Author of “I Pose.”
This is a new story by the Author of that
strikingly original work “I Pose,” in which
the reader is introduced to Jay, “a ’bus-con-
ductor and an idealist. She is not the heroine,
but the most constantly apparent woman in
this book.” The Author explains that she
cannot introduce us to a heroine because she
has never met one.
. By EDITII WHARTON.
G 57 XINGU AND OTHER STORIES.
“A collection of tales all up to a high level,
and some of them to be included amongst the
happiest specimens of the difficult art of short-
story writing.” —Daily Telegraph.
651 THE SHEPHERD OF THE
NORTH. By RICHARD AUMERLE
MAHER.
The Catholic Times : “Father Maher’s novel
centres round the inviolability of the secrets of
the confessional, and is one which should And a
place in every Catholic library. It is a good,
strong story, packed with incident and vibrating
with life.”
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Miss ini; Friends.
ILLIAM JOHN BROWN, last heard
ff of by letter, written about 'J.O years
ago, from G-Nalta Station, via Broken Hill, is
entitled to share with other relations in the
Estate of his Uncle, SAMUEL HAMMETT
BROWN, deceased. If living, please com-
municate at once with P. D. PHILLIPS.
FOX & OVEREND, Solicitors, 414 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
13 E WILLIAM CRAIG.—WiII Mr.
XV; William Craig, son of Mrs. Eleanor
Craig, of Sandford, please communicate with
Mr. EWEN C. CAMERON, LL.B., Soli-
citor, Hamilton, Victoria. .
\\J ILLIAM ERNEST OOOKE, who was recently in
; v the employ of Mr. Buchanan, of Tallangatta,
Victoria, should communicate at once with Messrs.
LOWE & CO., of 2 Temple Gardens, London, England,
Solicitors, who have news to his advantage.
NFOItMATION WANTED regarding
the whereabouts of JOHN PEACOCK,
Motor Engineer, formerly of Girvan, Ayr-
shire. Scotland, who emigrated to Australia
in 1911 (arrived Sydney about April, 1911).
If he will communicate with the Subscribers
he will hear of something to his advantage.
MURRAY & TAIT,
Solicitors,
Girvan, Ayrshire.
WRITE THIS VERY
DAY FOR
Finney’s Gold Medal Furniture Book
WE’LL POST ONE YOUR
WAY WITH PLEASURE.
Hi
|T does not matter how far away you may live, this book
makes you our next-door neighbor.
It is filled from cover to cover with actual photographs of our
Gold Medal Furniture so it shows the Furniture as it actually
is and exactly what you will get when ordering from this book.
Don’t even think of furnishing or re-furnishing until you first of
all get this book because between its covers you will find the
key to a happy, well-furnished home and at the least outlay.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO. LTD.,
“ WINNERS OF GOLD MEDALS FOR FURNITURE”
FRANCO-BRITISH EXPOSITION 1908 AND PANAMA-
PACIFIC EXPOSITION 1915.
The Big BlocK, BRISBANE:.
nz
33
H
IN
BANANA LAND
Even Black Brother has got into the habit
of blaming it on to the war. Here's a letter
from a Torres Strait Islander to a Thursday
Island pearler:—
Dear Sir Tom, —Just a few line to you I am very
hungery. This war no good. You all white people
you got plenty food to eat we all black people we
hungery all the time. War he make all thing too
dear, please my friend can you give me one bag of
flour please. 1 am very older; I live on small
island. Please sent me some tobocco and match.
When I go my Island you send me one bag flour.
Dear Friend I think I ani going to close my letter
now. Me hungery like hell. When war finish I pay
you for bag flour. —Yours truly friend, Mamba.
‘‘Dry Shave”: Labor does make a damfool
of itself at times! A coastal steamer put in
at Gladstone wharf the other morning at
7.55. A rope was heaved over with the
request that one of the assembled water-
siders make it fast. Not one would stir a
hand, “for any —— steamship com-
pany” till 8 a.m. As a dangerous sea was
running the skipper couldn’t wait alongside
for five minutes, so he had to turn about
and put out to sea and safety. If ever an
invader calls round, let’s hope he doesn’t
do it when Bill Lumper is at smoke-oh.
A resident in one of Brisbane’s newest
suburbs, having written to the local co.uncil
17 times about the state of the alleged street
in front of his house, decided lately to
try another line. Next morning there was
another notice for the small boys of the
neighborhood to throw mud at. Stuck right
in the middle of the read it read: “Persons
found shooting in this swamp will be pros-
ecuted. By order.”
When Bill the Butcher forgot himself, one
of two Queensland brothers hurried off to
England and joined the navy. He was
aboard a destroyer sunk in the North Sea and
was saved by a Norwegian boat. Escaping, he
pushed over to the U.S.A., and from there
worked his passage to Sydney. Meanwhile
his old folks at home hadn’t heard of him
for two years. The night he landed he
went to a show. The same day his brother
arrived at Sydney and went to a show also,
getting in just as the curtain rose. When
the lights llared in the interval the two
brothers were sitting side by side!
“l’ot Jostler” : In Queensland all recruits
are medically examined as soon as they
reach camp. There was quite a big day
recently ; something like 76 came in willing
to strafe Bill. All was bustle, and perspir-
ing sergeants were pushing the men through
the medical hut. A man was patiently wait-
ing near the door of the hut when a s, r-
geant rushed him inside and ordered him to
take off: his shirt. The man tried to get a
few words in, but there was no time for
explanations, and he was hustled before the
M.O. vainly expostulating. The Medical
Officer had him stripped and was examining
him for varicose veins and other things.
Then he stopped and asked him his age.
“Sixty-one,” said the old chap. “Then what
in God’s name are you doing here?” angrily-
cried the M.O. “Isn’t my fault,” said the
sixty-oner. “I been trying to tell somebody
the last two hours that I’m only a visitor
looking for my son who joined yesterday.”
Exit John Memovitcli, the cheerful claim-
ant for a modest £8,000,000 from the Queens-
land Government. Memovitch fob years past
has sent in his bill every year. He claimed to
have discovered the Clermont goldfield some
50 years ago, and reckoned that he was
entitled to the reward paid in those days
for such finds. He brought the amount up to
eight millions by adding compound interest
for a term of about half a century. His
claim, however, had not a great deal to sup-
port it, and when he passed over the line the
other day at the age of 70, he was still
hoping against hope. An Austrian by
birth, he had been a great many years in
Queensland. When Parliament was in ses-
sion Memovitch was a regular attendant, and
Ministers were hard put to it to escape the
interviews which he continually sought.
Years ago Joe Lesina presented a petition
to Parliament on the old chap’s behalf, and
the claim was subsequently investigated. The
petition is in itself a bit of a curio, and
many of the names attached to it prove that
the signatories did not take the old fellow
very seriously. In fact, the mention of some
of the names in a public place would pro-
bably have been followed by arrest for in-
decent language.
Queensland Government pays the manager
of a State pub £450 salary and provides
board and residence for him and his family.
Then, in order to encourage young men to
turn to science, it seeks a Government
Botanist and proposes to load him with
£3OO a year and feed himself.
Queensland’s Under-Secretary for Public
Instruction spoke proudly the other day of a
“linking-up between the University and the
meatworks” which had been accomplished.
This sounds like good news. It probably
means that the Uni. Professor who gets dis-
contented with his pay is to be allowed to
take a turn at butchering, and so improve his
income.
The Northern climate told again last
week, when Edward Wilson, one of Queens-
land's best-known Congregational ministers,
died at Rockhampton aged 78. Born in Ire-
land. Wilson drifted into the Army, and
took part in the suppression of the Indian
Mutiny. In hospital with cholera he suc-
cessfully skirmished with Death; and the
experience decided him to enter the Church.
Bronchial trouble brought him to Australia,
lie served in various parts of Queensland,
and had labored in the vineyard altogether
for 55 years.
WHY HURRY?
MR. BROWN : “I had a queer dream last night, my dear. I thought I saw another
man running off with you."
MRS. BROWN : “And what did you say to him?"
MR. BROWN : “I asked him what he teas running for."
“D.G.S.” : How- is this for record bidding?
At Rockhampton Land Court the other day
a perpetual lease of 39 acres was auctioned.
The upset price was £3B 15s. ; only two men
wanted the block, but in £1 bids the pair
soon sent the offer up to hundreds. The
crowd got impatient and wanted them to
leap in fivers. When £9OO was reached one
threw in the towel, casually remarking to
the other fool “that if he had had the sense
to toss for it he might have had it for half
the price.”
“Van Eck”: When a theatrical show puts
up at Toowoomba Town Hall the manage-
ment always has to take no account of cer-
tain seats. Painted on three of the best in the
hall are the words, “Reserved for the
Alayor.” And it’s Heaven help the indivi-
dual who encroaches on his preserves!
The sight of Alat Reid, one of Labor’s
pioneers in the ’Bo’s, going round Southern
Bananaland organising for the National
Federation, must be gall to the extreme sec-
tion of the Brisbane Trades Hall. - Alat is
one of dozens who have been driven out of
the ranks of Queensland orthodox Labor in
the last 20 years. Expelled AI’s.L.A. alone
in Bananaland number nearly 30.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, Alarch 17, 1917.
Aly Dear Thargomindah,—
A distinguished Russian, Alexander Pop-
oil:, who is entitled to be addressed as “your
Excellency” when he is in the home-land
(Excellencies run about seven for six-
pence in Russia, I believe —or did up till a
few days ago), is the Bear’s new Trade
Commissioner in Australia. His head-
quarters will be Brisbane, and to christen
the venture he lunched a party of focal pop-
guns at the Belle Vue Hotel the other day.
Amongst the guests were Premier and Airs.
Ryan.
Another visitor to Brisbane is Leonard AI.
Sandston, ALA., B.Sc., who is getting round
Australia studying street and road construc-
tion ! That’s what he says, anyhow. He is
a Alaorilander, who, after leaving the Shaky
Isles, spent 10 years in Europe and America
practising engineering.
The State Fisheries business has been set
going under the management of A. A. Gil-
mour, for many years with the Q.AI.E. Co.
A receiving depot, with freezing plant, has
been established on Wynnum Creek, and
from a central market in Brisbane delivery-
carts will serve the suburbs with wholesome
sea-food. The scheme ought to receive a
great welcome.
Mrs. Irving, wife of our new State Com-
mandant, has been,the guest of honor at
morning teas given by the National Council
of Women and the Women’s Mutual Service
Club.
Died ill France, Lieut. J. J. Trickett, son
of the famous oarsman. Lieut. Trickett
saw service in the Boer War, and emerged
wearing a D.C.M. and a S’African medal
with five clasps. Immediately after that
scuffle he became famous in Queensland with
the stranding of the steamer Aramac. He
was in charge of one of the boats, and re-
mained at the tiller for 42 hours without a
spell. Ilis wife was a Miss Cross, of Rock-
hampton. Prior to going after the Huns
Lieut. Trickett was manager of Brisbane
branch of the Imperial Oil Co.
Bruce Mclntosh, well known in and near
Burketown, has risen to captain's rank. He
left here in 1914 as a sergeant, won a com-
mission at Gallipoli, got his second star
after the evacuation, was recently wounded
in France, and is now back in the firing-
line.
Another Bananalander who has been dis-
tinguishing himself is barrister Tom Macleod,
flight-commander. He has just completed
six months’ service in France. Two Long-
reach boys,. Lieuts. Shaw and Donaldson,
also members of the R.F.C., are doing good
work in the same sphere.
, Capt. A. C. Morgan, son of the late
Arthur Morgan, is on his way home on leave
from Egypt. Ilis pretty little wife is wait-
ing for him in Sydney.
Miss Fuller, the artist, of whom Vandorian
gave us a portrait lately, is at present in
Brisbane. An exhibition of her work is on
view at the Turner galleries.
Miss Helen Ilislop, daughter of the Robert
Hislops of this city, is wearing the golden
promise of Sergt. F. J. Dawson, of the
Maoriland Expeditionary Forces. He is a
Wellington man.
T. 11. Slatyer, manager of the Common-
wealth Bank at Rabaul, will arrive in
Queensland at the end of this month. Ilis
marriage to Miss Jean Mackenzie, daughter
of K. Murchison Mackenzie, of the Q. N.
Bank. Maryborough, is to take place soon,
after his arrival.
By the death of Airs. George Harris last
Friday, Brisbane lost one who was a leader
of Society' in the merry bad old days when
John Stevenson, Henry Donkin and Joshua
Peter Bell drove rival four-in-hands, and
Newstead (the Harris mansion) was the
rendezvous of the smartest set. Airs. Harris
reigned amidst maids and servants galore, in
an atmosphere which resulted in her becom-
ing a very wilful and spoiled young woman.
One of the handsome Thorn sisters (the
other two became Airs. Donald Wallace and
Airs. Tom Rome —-the latter’s son will be
remembered as one of the Denman aides),
she married Brisbane’s rich merchant when
she was just IS. Her lovely golden hair
remained almost unfaded to the last. In-
deed, she did what is given to few of her sex.
and lived to be a very pretty old woman.
Of her two daughters the eldest married Tay-
lor, of Bellevue station, and on his death
Lumley Hill ; the younger is .Airs. George
Casey, of Aielbouriie, and a grand-daughter
child of her second son is a young Airs.
Bullivant. of Victoria.
Air. and Airs. Parry Okeden have gone to
Sydney to await the arrival of their daughter
and her husband, Roger Cope, who have
been in France doing splendid and little-
advertised work in a military hospital where
many of the tragic Belgian cases were
treated.
I was telling you last week about the
Telegraph’s attitude to the committee of
the Repatriation - scheme, and between you
and me we got the trouble mixed. The Tele-
graph’s representative is not to be excluded
from all meetings of the Repatriation Com-
mittee ; what happened was that the Tele-
graph’s representative on the publicity
sub-committee was requested to withdraw
from the Presence. Now, let’s get on with
the war again.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


t
1
5^
F=
/
h
/
n?
/
V-LJ
L.
tam*
The Studebaker Owner Travels
in COMFORT everywhere
TOURING
CARS,
ROADSTERS,
VANS.
Distance or weather, roads or hills, it makes
little difference to the Studebaker owner. He
travels in COMFORT everywhere. And from
his car he gets full measure of enjoyment and
recreation*
Those out-of-the-way places not touched by the
railway are reached with comparative ease with
a Studebaker. Cross country trips, usually tire-
some are turned into pleasure tours, even though
all kinds of rough and hilly country may be en-
countered. Again the roominess and utility of the
Studebaker tonneau are such as to permit its use
for luncheon parties and similar purposes while
touring.
And YOU, with the multitudes of beautiful tours and
camping spots that offer to the tourists, will find your
Studebaker completely satisfying. Why not come in at
once and see this famous car see what it offers you
and your family in recreation and new-found pleasure ?
The Studebaker Corporation
of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office and Showroom: 177 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Garage, Workshops and Warehouse: GLENMORE ROAD, SYDNEY.
State Importers :
VICTORIA .Messrs. TURNER BROS., 398 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—THE CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LTD., 95-99 Pulteney Street, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—THE ARHSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY,. Hay Street, PERTH.
TASMANIA—W. GAHAGAN, Collins Street, HOBART ; CORRICK’S GARAGE, Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON.
NE / ZEALAND—ADAMS LTD., CHRISTCHURCH.


Little Friends
of the Liver
They re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed:—
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
erh
Carters
>ITTLE
IVER
PILLS,
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pm,
Small Dose,
Small Price.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
A simple, old-fashioned, home-made recipe will
make the greyness disappear.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often downright injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a. natural color in a perfectly harmless
manner. You have only to get two ounces
of tammalite concentrate from your chemist
and mix it with three'ounces of bay rum to
prove this. Apply this simple and harmless
lotion for a few nights to the hair with a
small sponge and the greyness will gradually
disappear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy, and has been proved over and over
again for generations past bv those in posses-
sion of the formula.- —Advt.
\V&ar> j
( T ossard
U COH<SE,TsS
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
TktCHIASTOIITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGATNST ALL HARM.
„ . . Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
0
J
ABBEY
SHOES
are worn by well-dressed men
everywhere. They are made on
our own exclusive lasts, in half-
and full-sizes, and in three fittings
—namely, narrow, medium and
wide.
You are therefore assured a perfect
fit when you wear Abbey Sho^s.
We illustrate a choice All-Patent
Derby Bab,
Price -
Also in high-grade Tan Willow Calf,
Price - 42/-
■ Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
£.4 19s. BUYS THIS £9 VALUE.
OAK EIGHT-PIECE DINING-ROOM SUITE, without Coach; with Couch, 7 Pieces, £5 19s.
100 SUITES ONLY AT THIS PRICE, SO ACT QUICKLY.
These are all lift-out seats, fully upholstered. We ship knock-down to country
up. This illustration
and you simply fasten parts; or if preferred shipped made
does not do justice to this suite.
Se T?, sam r- you i° not think this suite worth double the price paid
we will cheerfully refund you the money. 1 ■
CUT THE COST OF YOUR FURNITURE IN TWO ON OTHER LINES.
KNOCK-DOWN FURNITURE.
Shipped knock-down in sections direct
from the factory to you save dealers’
expenses and profits; also factory space,
packing, and freight or cartage charges.
YOU CAN PUT THIS FURNITURE
TOGETHER in fifteen minutes if you
live in the country, or we will put up
same if you live close at hand.
Country Customers add six shillings for
packing.
COME AND SEE THIS SUITE AT ONCE.
I
I
1
will buy a £l5O Player Piano.
Import your own Goods in Farm Machinery,
*"» eic.
also other goods that we have samples of in our rooms at
183 Pitt Street (Second Floor), near King Street, Sydney.
Manufactures Sales Service.
ft
rv
Flavour Lasts
/
m
8
a
ml
S 3
S 7
\ ] H( > J
}) iF.;HS;;;!inii;;ilL-flfJf!^j
CS“
'
r
111
■■■■
naai
People who
work hard all day,
often without a sup-
ply of drinking water, find
WRKGLEV’S the famous chew-
ing sweet, a delicious, long-lasting
refreshment.
It quenches thirst, aids appetite and
digestion, keeps the teeth clean and
breath sweet.
Welcomed by the forces in
Europe. Send some to
your soldier or sailor.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
Two Flavours
3d. per packet of
5 big bars at Chem-
ists, Confectioners
and other'stores.
Or send 3 penny
stamps for trial
packet to J„ C.
Gambles & Coy,
Commerce House,
Melbourne. •
■ss
3©
be
cl
<l9
\*
m
S e \
o
o
\E
vk
c
Chew it after
every meal
The
Flavour Lasts
TRIED AND TRUSTED.
‘‘Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM.”
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
News comes from London of the death of
Frank Desprez, who in his way has caused
as much suffering as W. Holienzollern, for
he was the author of “Lasca,” which has been
hissed, sobbed and shouted by elocutionary
fiends wherever the English language is
mangled. In his early days Desprez was a
cowboy in Texas, and on passing to London
was mixed up in theatrical affairs. He
wrote many curtain-raisers and a farce,
“Happy Hampstead,” which was set to music
by D’Oyly Carte, who composed under the
nom-de-t une of “Mark Lynn.” Afterwards
Desprez was Carte’s secretary, and later
became editor of The Era, London’s old-
established grease-paint publication.
“The Moth”: What darkness would lie
over the. land but for our glorious cable ser-
vice! The papers that feature Northcliffe
news the other day solemnly printed this
message: “The Times has discontinued the
issue of its contents bill.” How should we,
as loyal subjects of George IV., refceive
news of this kind? Should we moan and
go into sackcloth and cinders? Should we
be joyful and slay the fatted calf, or should
we offer up prayers that someone will slay
the fatted ass at the other end of the cable?
If the Times should e\ er change the- com-
plexion of its front door I look forward to
a happy couple of columns.
“Lou”: “Bill” Smith, organiser for the
Painters’ Union, has been selected to contest
Henty, the Vie. constituency that Boyd has
represented almost since it was put on the
Federal map. Labor’s hope last time was
A. J. Andrews, secretary of East Melbourne
P.L.C.; but Boyd outed him by about 900.
Still, that was a light poll, and Smith, a
young and “scientific” laborite and one of
the best debaters in Melbourne Trades Hall,
will be much closer up to the sitting mem-
ber. than that —if the sitting member isn’t
entirely overcome on the journey by the
fumes arising from his party.
“Rio”: “Returned Billjim” is wrong in
attributing the restrictions on army nurses
in uniform -to the petty tyranny of snobbish
staff-officers (B. 1/3/T7). The responsible
parties are the Director-General of Medical
Services (in ordinary times a suburban doc-
tor) and the Principal Matron, who is her-
self a nurse. _ Like the restrictions in civil
life, the war-time rules for nurses have been
deemed necessary because of the very few
who have been indiscreet, and the number of
Billjims, returned and otherwise, who cannot
see. a nursing sister in the company of a
patient on leave without letting filthy tongues
run loose.
The Institution of Civil Engineers,
London, numbered the Kaiser among its
members; but by a special vote since the out-
break of war he was removed from the list.
Yet no man, by reason of railways, bridges,
cities and ships destroyed, has done more to
provide members of the profession with
opportunities for work in the future. Some
people are ungrateful beggars. Lord Kit-
chener was another .member whom the war
has been responsible for removing.
Capt. de Beauchamp and Lieut. Daneourt,
who recently bombed Essen, rode from
France to the scene of the explosion on the
latest type of So.pwitli biplane, which the
Australian Harry Hawker helped to design.
Hawker is now an important member of the
firm. _ Jn fact, Hawker, T. O. M.
Sopwitli (head of the business) and one
Sigrist, the works manager, are responsible
for all the new developments in the Sopwith
flier. The details of the famous “tabloid”
machine, which created a sensation on its
first appearance in 1913, were worked out
by the trio with a lump of chalk on the
factory floor.
“L.0.W.”: The N. S. Wales Education
Department may be a bit over-canny in
some ways, as “Alfonso” suggests (B.
22/2/’l7). But it is entitled to praise for
endeavoring to make Australian youngsters
take an interest in beautifying their schools
and their country by tree-planting and
similar improvements. In the opinion of
ancient long-bearded cockies such things are
fads, as “Alfonso” indicates. But, then,
anything at all, public or private, which
institutes any departure from antediluvian
ideas and methods is a fad. Whatever
faults exist, the fact remains that the
State schools of to-day make youngsters far
more interested and enlightened in regard
to Australia than did the educational sys-
tems of 30 or 40 years ago, when a large
percentage of the sneering pedagogues had
only recently arrived from the Cold Country,
bringing their imported ideas and ideals
with them. In my own youth it was
instilled into me that everything Australian,
soil, climate, plants, animals and people,
were inferior, and it took many years before
the hard logic of facts and experience
slaughtered that humiliating belief. We
learnt then all about the plants and animals
and immense wealth-producing resources of
every country on the globe, always barring
our own. The animals and birds of our
own land were merely monstrosities; our
fish were inferior to the fish of other seas.
Ilence the rabbit and the fox in place of
the marsupial; the wretched carp instead
of the Murray cod and the blackfish. Inci-
dentally, school in those days was a Sahara
that every well-conditioned -boy hated.
Nowadays my kids go off to school quite will-
ingly, have already learned more about their
native land than I did in all my years of
school and take an intelligent interest in the
birds and plants and insects of Australia.
In fact, they are being educated as Austra-
lians by an Australian teacher, and the
whole atmosphere, tends to make them regard
Australia as their country. In my day,
we were taught by alien teachers to regard
ourselves as foreign born Englishmen, con-
-demned by harsh circumstances to reside in
a country totally unworthy of consideration.
When facetious old cockies hang their heads
over the school fence and sneer at “fads” they
never knew in their schooldays, it would be
as well, then, to ask them whether, fads
and, all chucked in, they notice that kids
don t now appear to be as sorry about going"
to school as they used to be in the good old
fadless days.


Li
*
1
Ir*
l
/
5?
23
■ ■
f.r\
I. o v I
to
m
.fc*
<>x
m
/'-' i °
/, j
Livercmph Pictures
by—
CHAMBERLAIN'S
Tablets -
HEARTBURN-Most people know what this means
as few are exempt from frequent “ spells.”
The appetite becomes impaired, while
a severe gnawing or burning sensation
is experienced in the upper part of the
abdomen.
Heartburn is one of the many ways in
which the digestive organs express
disapproval of ill-treatment —warn you
to be careful.
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach
and liver give instant relief in all cases
of heartburn, and by toning and
strengthening the stomach and bowels,
prevent a return of the trouble.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are an excep-
tional remedy for all troubles arising
from the stomach, liver and bowels, and
are so mild and gentle in their action
that they can be used for children and
old folks.
You may have tried " this, that, or
the other,” but for permanent relief and
pleasurable action you will never find
anything to equal Chamberlain’s Tablets.
For indigestion, constipation, bilious-
ness, headache, sour stomach, etc,,
nothing equals
CMAMBEBLAINSTABLEIS
Jk>r the Stomach t> Liver.
Though a few “Live to eat,” the great
majority “Eat to live,” but when your
digestion is faulty, eating causes your life
to be a misery. To properly nourish your
body your food must be thoroughly digested
and its various constituents pass to the
organs for which they are. intended.
When this is not done the food does you
no good, but rather harm, for it lies in
your stomach, causing poisonous gases
and disorders of the stomach —causes con-
stipation, which means that the food, in-
stead of being expelled through the bowels,
lies there, and the poisonous matter is
absorbed into the system. All this can
be avoided by taking a course of Cham-
berlain’s Tablets. They aid digestion,
cleanse the stomach, stimulate the liver
and bowels to perform their work, and in-
vigorate the-system in So doing. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets are the safest Cathartic
to take, for they perform their work so
gently and naturally that there is no fear
of inflammation following.
No one thing is more conducive to good
health than the daily evacuation of the
bowels. If your habit is not regular in
this respect you need a general laxative
and tonic, and this is precisely what you
get when you buy an eighteenpenny box
of Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach
and liver. They eliminate all impurities
and tone the system at the same time.
A disordered stomach may cause no end
of trouble. When the stomach fails to
perform its functions the bowels become
deranged, the liver and kidneys congested,
causing numerous diseases, the most fatal
of which are painless and therefore the
more to be dreaded. The important thing
is to restore the stomach and liver to a
healthy condition, and for this purpose
no better preparation can be used than
Chamberlain’s Tablets.
If you were able to live just right all
the time there would be little need
for medicine, less need for doctors. But
some little thing is constantly coming
along to put us out of balance —exposure,
change of diet or drinking water, irregu-
lar meals are little tilings that will at
times upset the best of us. Nothing
particular the matter, but we don't feel
good. At such times the wise among us
will take a few doses of Chamberlain’s
Tablets with certain knowledge that they
will put us right, right away.
Many women habitually suffer from
headaches which make life a daily purga-
tory. Frequently they are caused by in-
digestion, and to relieve them permanently
you must remove the cause. For indi-
gestion, biliousness, constipation, disorders
of the stomach and liver there is nothing
better than Chamberlain’s Tablets. Head-
ache cannot exist when Chamberlain’s
Tablets are taken.
Back up a sewer and you will poison
the whole neighborhood, clog up the liver
and bowels and your system is full of
undigested food, which sours and fer-
ments —this means indigestion, headache,
bad breath, yellow skin and everything
that is horrible. Chamberlain’s Tablets
quickly stop fermentation in the stomach,
and they make tllfe liver lively, tone up
the bowels and set the whole machinery
going.
Much ill-health is due to impaired diges-
tion. If the stomach fails to perform its
functions the whole system becomes de-
ranged. A few doses of Chamberlain’s
Tablets is all you need. They Will
strengthen your digestion, stimulate your
liver and regulate your bowels, entirely
removing that miserable feeling due to
faulty digestion. Chamberlain’s Tablets
have relieved many people who have been
acute sufferers from indigestion, so why
not give them a chance to relieve you?
It is not natural to have that tired feel-
ing day in and day out, that you go to
bed with at night and get up with in the
morning—it is a sure sign that your sys-
tem is out of order. To refresh yourself
and regain that strong, vigorous feeling
you should take a course of Chamberlain’s
Tablets. They will strengthen your
stomach and stimulate your liver and
bowels to renewed activity; although you
have not realised it, it is these organs
that have caused that tired feeling. There
is no better medicine made for all dis-
orders of the stomach, liver and bowels
than Chamberlain’s Tablets.
The road to ruin begins when constipa-
tion and biliousness fasten themselves on
you and drag down your health. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets cure these disorders and
successfully build up your strength and
health.
Boils and pimples are Nature’s
effort to throw off poisons which have
formed in the blood. Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets cleanse the stomach, liver and bowels,
thus purifying the blood and refreshing
the system until you feel a new being.
Take a course of Chamberlain’s Tablets
to thoroughly eradicate the poisonous mat-
ter from the system and then make a
practice of taking one at regular intervals,
and you will never again be troubled with
boils.
It is a folly for old folks to allow the
bowel debility of age to master them, as it
naturally makes them age faster each day.
By using Chamberlain’s Tablets, safe and
pleasant relief can always be had. There
is no griping.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will clear the
sour stomach, sweeten the breath and
create a healthy appetite. They promote
the flow of gastric juice, thereby inducing
good digestion.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
sr
Works: Birmingham, England»
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
EASTER GIFTS at Stewart Dawson’s,
where the Values and Variety are so keenly appreciated.
n
067*00. —Fine
Pearl & Peridot
or Pink Tourma-
line, set 9ct.
Gold Necklet,
with Case.
Price. £4/4/-
£ XPAAU)j in
C 5390. —High-grade Keyless Lever Watch, tally
jewelled, with Patent Expanding Bracelet. Price,
9ct. Gold, £7/7/-. 15ct. Gold, £lO/10/-
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE.
It is an excellent Handbook for the selection of
Easter Gifts at economical prices.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
srt
C'669z.'—'-'ine-
qualitjv- Aqua-
marine or
Peridot & Pearl,
set 9ct. Gold
Necklet, with
Case. Price £3,
w
MTS WJT Ml Jg JM
and WORKMANSHI^
4/
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
J.
& \
hi
I)
“flees
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
THE “SKANDIA” IN WEST AUSTRALIA.
PEARLING SCHOONER—3O=h.p. “ SKANDIA.”
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
r l.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


_ —-——■
Arnott s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
/"''Aft*
If the saddle is not scientifically designed
your cycling comfort can never be
complete therefore always specify a
BROOKS
W OF ALL DEALERS,
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Under any con-
till
ditions and for all
kinds of game shooting
Remmgton-UMC Shot-Gun
Cartridges will respond to the demands
of discriminating .sportsmen.
NEW ri im four brands :
( B iack Powdeh (Smokeless Powder)
AU Kemington-UMC cases are waterproofed
For sale by leading dealers. Catalogue free.
The Remington Arms Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Woelworth Building
New York, U. S. A.
srn
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual
Buildings. Melbourne.
©
sA*ipT*A
■ MIU
US
of all Chemists
«>•<
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
Horlick’s is absolutely pure
because it comes to you
paste urisedi'l
Horlick’s Will refresh you more than anything
else you can take, and will assist nature to
build bone, nerve and muscle.
Sample
of 2d.
and Co.,
Sydney,
will be sent oh Kjegipt
Btamps.--lihtchinson
Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
N.S.W.
17y it at
the Soda Fountain*
d
o
Jl
Lh
•f*
Don't forget to use
IfICARBOLIcjJ
H
to - night—and again
in the morning .
You will find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the teeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by local r .hemists and Stores,
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester , England.
George
St. Hilda,
HOTEL,
Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—•
4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Svdnev.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites* with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Gining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
m Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. TJRE SMITH. Manager.
Nights of Gladness
On Sunday next. March 25. the clock goes back one hour.
Soon the dark Wi iter nights will follow. Then it is, particu-
larly, when the out-of-doors no longer calls, that one revels in
the music of
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
V* aSter i u
Illustrated is the portable “Tas-
man ’ No. 2 model—a beautiful
instrument in Satin - finished
Mahogany with nickel-plated fit-
tings. . It has the famous “His
Master’s \ oice” gooseneck tone-
arm and • “Exhibition” sound-box.
Price £l7 17s.
Instiument catalogue, record lists
and name of nearest accredited
dealer on request.
the instrument that
makes time pass
pleasantly.
“GRAMOPHONE’
Registered Trade Mark
m
-
w
rhe Mahogany “Tasman,” £l7 17s.
the GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET-—-—— SYDNEY
In
7
Better Health
Added Beauty
Are Yours
THESE great human desires come
true with but small outlay of effort
and money through
GOOD TEETH
Do not allow indifference to stand in
your way of having a life time of good
looks and vigor. Good teeth pay. They
are easy to have by visiting your den-
tist twice a year and using
m.
*l* T 4(
EP&
& mg
the teeth
.I.W. VY(
% pEVt ECY
PO]
ft and PUR<fYINS<:
VV m TOC«TH ?j
PRICE 2% EVI^
mt
mm
tn£ 9
*?*
I
- I j
Dr. Lyon's
perfect
Tooth Powder
Dental Cream
Borh Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder and Dental Cream are safe
dentifrices and superior and efficient preparations. Both are equal in
preserving and cleansing powers. Both at alternating periods should
be used to secure and retain good teeth. Tooth powder is the super-
cleanser. To those exercising that preference the wise
su gg est ion is offered of an accasional use of tooth
powder to secure the highest efficiency from the
preservative agents embodied in both preparations.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. w. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N.Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.


It Is So Easy
To Remove All
Itching Skin
Troubles With
Cuticura
The Soap to cleanse and pu-
rify, the Ointment to soothe
and heal. Relief is imme-
diate and healment in most
cases complete, speedy and
permanent.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
AMERICA’S STAfIDARO FOURCYCU EHGItIE
THEJAMOUS
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders-—4 cycle—medium speed.
Made by Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
See one of these engines working.
It will convince you; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of these qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OR CALL AT
Motor Showrooms: 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
ELEY
'CARTRIDGES'
Always Reliable
I«j£
S
is
as
HI
lata
IPJ
Sum
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL 1
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and ij oz. of shot.
•/
jm
srtn
ELEY
*3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 38
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS.
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L® LONDON
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Wineheombe. M.L.C.; Adrian ’vnox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
The Palmer original
three-ribbed tread.
Red rubber danger-
strip-warning for're-
treading.
The famous Palmer
Airless Cords in sec-
tion.
Cords bared, showing
steel anchors on bead.
Cord layers exposed,
one crossing the other
at right angles.
m
CORD TYRES
m
m.
m
m
save petrol, bursts, punctures.
Woven canvas v\ as the makeshift reinforcement of the early pneumatics. It
is still used for all but the wonderful Palmer Cord Tyre.
Palmer Patent Cords are the advance of Science
on woven canvas, giving greater resilience, strength
and life. They ensure a virtual immunity from
bursts and punctures.
Comparative tests made on Brooklands Track show
that by not generating internal friction as with a
canvas tyre and transmitting more power to the road,
Palmer Cord Tyres save 10% of the petrol you buy.
Palmer Cord Tyres are made for Motor Cars of all weights, Motor Cycles. Auto-wheels and Aeroplanes.
Palmer Fabric —cotton strands separate’y insulated in pure rubber—is the foundation of the lower-priced
Palmer Motor Cycle Tyres and of all Palmer Cycle Tyres. The Palmer Cord is a development from
Palmer Fabric; for their individual purpose, both Cord and Fabric represent the highest efficiency known.
LITERATURE FREE BY POST OR CALL FROM NEAREST AGENCY.
Agency for Motor Tyres, Motor Cycle & Cycle lyres—
The India Rubber, Gutta Percha & Telegraph Works Co., Ltd.,
279 George Street, SYDNEY.
The PALMER TYRE, Ltd., Chief Offices, U 9 to 123, Shaftesbury Av., London, W.C,
Palmer Cycle Tyre Users are
cautioned in their .interests to pur-
chase only l yres bearing this mark.
Disappointment follows thisneglect.
TRADE
Q\)l
«A«
MARK]
No Cycle Tyre Cover is a
genuine Palmer Cover unless it
bears this Trade Mark clearly
moulded on the side.
(2) <£>
Uncerrua
~*r&4t
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
"J'HE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is oyercome—the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness” and well-being.
Dr. A ndrew Wilson wrote :—"lmpoverished blooa cart be wade rich and good
“ by means of Iron 'Jelloids,' the most effective and desirable treatment."
A FORTNIGHT'S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON "JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6, Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by Thb 'Jelloid' Co.. 205, City Road. London, England.
(Fkcuiovnced JeW-Lloydi)
HUBS WELL, CLARKE 8 CO
M
ms
■MMHB
wmSM 1 9 E H :: I
LEEDS.
Locos, of all Types.
ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BEST.
Agent—
J. GERMAN, n cpaft House, Moore St., Sydney
The Inky Way.
“F.N.T.”: Dr. Thomas Patlirick Mcln-
erney, a mellow old lawyer who acts as
warden to the Melbourne 'Varsity Senate in
his spare time, is one of the leading lights of
the Australian Literature Society. The
other night, over a discussion of Furphy’s
poems, the little company side-tracked the
poems for a time in order to discuss The
Bulletin ; whereupon Mclnerney arose,
shook out his flowing back hair and declared
that The Bulletin, “caustic and hyper-
critical of everything that was noble
and inspiring”—loafing, sweating, political
trickery, cow slavery, bookmaking, and
religious cant and hypocrisy, for example
—“was injuring the literature of Aus-
tralia.” Newspaper-man Sergeant Alfred
Morris, back on furlough from hot times in
the melting-pot of the new war-literature,
hacked up by poet-critic Bernard O’Dowd,
suggested that so far The Bulletin hadn’t
been caustic or hypercritical of the Austra-
lian soldier’s noble and inspiring war-eftorts.
either in literature or oh the stricken field.
But Thomas Patrick simply refused to aha'n-
don Ids gloomy view of this country’s
literary future.
“Peter”: Archie Whyte has given up his
perch in the iuter-State press gallery at
Federal Parliament House for a post as
organiser of the National Federation. For
over 10 years Whyte had poured the per-
siflage of Parliament into the columns of the
S. M. lleralu, and struggled nobly to make
a success, of the tiresome job. He is a
bright young man who in his new job will
be something like a grasshopper in a
cemetery.
* * * *
Listen to the Melbourne Age on the sub-
ject of the rats that have been eating the
stacked wheat at Williamstown :
These creatures, whose organising genius would
surely put the boomed ant to the blush —
And then Tiie Bulletin knocked off work
and had a vision of a boomed ant blushing.
* * * *
“Melb” introduces the.family:—
George Collins Levev is alive and well in England,
at the age of 86. He was on the front Opposition
bench of the Victorian Assembly half a century ago,
alongside Nat Levi, and promised to become a Min-
ister. Then he missed an election for Normanby
and went out. Levey had good writing power, but
could not get along with the Argus, so Davy Symc
took him over—as he did also Marcus Clarke,
“Vagabond” Julian Thomas and James Smith in
later years—-and found him a highly useful man.
Afterwards he was a promoter of exhibitions. Of
his three brothers, William, Oliver and J.A., the
first-named edited Melbourne Bell's Life and wrote
therein as “Voltigcur,” with Chapman, afterwards
of the Weekly Times and Australasian, as “Orange
Blossom.” Oliver is still in business in Melbourne
as printers’ broker.
* * * *
“Melb”: Cole, of the Book Arcade, once
let me into his method of producing a book.
In his studio adjoining the store in Mel-
bourne he had little boxes all round the
walls, on the plan of the private-box depart-
ment in the post office. Each receptacle
was labelled, and' whenever Cole got an idea
he wrote it down and popped it away. Thus
all his books growed, like Topsy, each com-
ing to light as the deposits of copy war-
ranted. There must be the makings of a
hundred books in the room yet. It is, by
the way, exactly the system on which Sardou
built Up his plays.
* * * *
Walter Cummins, who has been represent-
ing the Hobart Mercury in the A.J.A. Arbi-
tration Court case, and is C, E. Davies’s
right-hand man in running that organ, hoed
a pretty hard row in working up to his job.
He started as a boy in the office, then took
on the round of canvasser and collector in
the country, and came back into the shop
later. He plugged away at exams., and
made himself a qualified accountant, and
when a chance came he wasted no time.
“Q.C.”: The staff of the Hobart Daily
Post, which contains the speediest quick-
change artists on the Inky Way in Aus-
tralia, has had another shake-up. Ex-editor
Dwyer Gray is now sub-editor after a tour
round the reporting staff. Roger Kearney
has found the baton in his knapsack, and is
taking his first turn as chief of staff vice
J. D. Donolioe, the star mover, who is a
staffsman again. It isn’t a new job for
Donohoe; there aren’t any new jobs left on
the paper as far as he is concerned.
* ¥r ■X’ *
“Hamer”: Regarding that apt heading
competition, where stands the S. M.
Herald’s caption regarding the lightning
change by which Hughes landed Earle in the
Senate? The heading was simply “Senator
Ready.”
“ J.F.11.”: A lot of people suppose that
Captain Bairnsfather is the most striking
and original pictorial humorist evolved by
the war. But London Times, in reviewing
a collection of his studies of soldier life,
slates them unmercifully. “He standardises,
almost idolises, a degraded type of face. We
protest against so cruel a caricature.”
Nothing so quickly lowers the morale of an
army as slovenliness ; yet here unquestionably
is an army officei’ who invariably depicts, his
men as the very type which the army is
anxious to suppress. Incidentally the Times
gives a wipe to Rudyard Kipling as the liter-
ary inspirer of the Bairnsfather pictures, the
man who has led the public to believe that
“no soldier is a real soldier unless he uses
plenty of the worst language.”
A GOOD PLACE FOR BUSINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Don held the paper, and he read
Of pillage, wreck and fire,
What Mr. Woodrow Wilson said,
And troubles yet more dire,
Of Krupps’ infernal new machines
And doings of the submarines.
And then he read of men who froze
At an Antarctic goal.
“By gum !” said Dick. “One more of those
Excursions to the Pole!
They’re goin’ all the, bloomin’ year.
I wisht 1 ran the pub down there.”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


Is Your
Baby
Delicate?
Mother and Child,
Baby 6% months.
fci
r~\ j
-a
Fed from birth on the ‘ Allenhurys' Foods.
WHAT a marked difference there is
between the fretful, puny, ailing infant,
and the child whose face always bears
the smile and look of perfect health and con-
tentment. Mothers should early realize that much
depends on How Baby is Fed. The right food
given at the proper age means rest and comfort
for the mother and a sound healthy constitution
for her little one in after years. If, for any
reason, Baby cannot be given the natural food,
do not select a substitute merely because it is
cheap in price. Adopt what experience has
proved to be the Simplest and Most Successful
Method of Infant Feeding, i.e., The ‘Allenburys’
Foods. These Foods provide a Pure, Complete and
Progressive Dietary specially adapted to each
stage of a child’s development. They are not
expensive to buy when judged by the uniform good
results which follow their use; this is the true
standard of comparison. The'Allenburys’Foods are
used and recommended by members of the Medical
and Nursing Professions throughout the world.
The Foods that contain all the essential elements
to promote brain and body development.
»Menburgsßbods
ffIKF" Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management ,*•
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
MILK FOOD No. 1. From Birth to
3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. From 3 to
7 months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3. From
7 months upwards.
RUSKS (Malted). From 10 months.
THE ‘ALLENBURYS’ FEEDER
Simplest, Safest, and Best.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
13, Market Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1715.
I
scraps
p
r\
LOCAL
|O$TRi
by
■ ji
7"
PATRIOTISM
I .You# '
Aim? r
Then have aJHOT
at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco,
p*
1
T
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £4,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
'*
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
i* '
?•••• ■".j-:■>'> 1 • v r-
HhW
■X
Sporting'
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
sg
n
13/0
fg
“Splendid for all small game.'’'
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight, 511 b.
take-down. Carriage paid
Model,
magazine
-hardened
90/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of QUNS and RIFLES.
fg
“Suitable for small game and target shooting.”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, Tnixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, 441 b; slide action,
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
df
“A good rifle at a moderate price."
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model.
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 421 b.;
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
30/
35/-
' “Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sJlb. ..
=S9
55/-
mm
“Simple and extra strong in construction.”
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear-sight; length of rifle
over all. 37£in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
27/6
‘ Sure Catch” Anglers’ Guide & Price List Post Free.
gnd
“A suitable weapon for the hoy."
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre. R.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for lons rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
22/6
New Edition Sports and Firearms List—Post Free.
fgh
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
837. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sJlb.
Delivered,
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 30/- 1000; 3/- 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
£4/15/-
■I
SUNOL TOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
11d. post free.
A perfect rabbiter’s rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
front sights: weight. 441 b. : Delivered
551-
dfg
The rifle to select for your own use.
822. “The Savage” Repeating Hammerless Rifle,
1914 Model, 22 calibre, rim fire, 24in. octagon barrel,
slide action, dismountable, pistol grip, handles short, long or long rifle cartridges;
magazine holds 20 short, 17 long or 15 long rifle cartridges; lengrli
over all 40in., taken apart 27iin.; weight, about sJlb Delivered,
£3/12/6
hdf
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 2Jlb
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight 26/-
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
21/
New edition illustrated Firearms and Si)orts List (Catalogue B 1), also “Sure
Catch ” A nglers' Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one
or both lists. They are money savers.
R
a
o o
nusTmuns greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
nm TOBACCONISTS
gh
i City Sports Depot
119 Kind St also at
Tieyycosik £ Brisbane,


A BURNE-JONES MODEL
NOW A REXONA GIRL.
11
V
:
' 'A, :
i> ■
■Mm
l
- g§ m i
m
Miss Betty Chalmers Payne is a famous
Buin.e-Jones model. Her head and neck are
considered perfect.
Miss Chalmers Payne becomes a Rexona
girl. She* writes us as follows:
Dear Rexona, —
If ever you elect a Queen
amongst your Rexona Girls I
think I should be a candidate, for
I use Rexona Soap and Rexona for
more purposes I believe than any-
one else, and I am sure no other
girl could be more delighted with
them than I am.
I have used Rexona for tired
feet, mosquito bites, chapped
hands, sunburn and as a skin
healer, and always with the best
results. Rexona Soap I not only
use to shampoo ray hair and for
my face and hands, but also in the
bath every morning and after surf-
ing. How pure and delightful
Rexona Soap is. I notice you
advertise it as a dentifrice also,
and it not only cleanses the teeth,
but it leaves the mouth so fresh
and clean, and I use it both nicht
and morning for this purpose.
I am sending you my photo-
graph, and I do not see how any-
one could praise Rexona more
than I can, and you can count on
me telling'all my friends, I can
assure you. (Sgd.)
BETTY CHALMERS PAYNE.
REXONA, 1/6 and 3/-
REXONA SOAP, 1/-
Miss BETTY CHALMERS
PAYNE.
From a photo by Monte Lulcc.
Everyone
Needs Rexona
The Rexona Remedies consist of
Rexona the Rapid Healer and
Rexona Skin and Racial Soap. They
are universal favorites with every-
one who values a pure and healthy
skin. Rexona will at once heal all
the minor injuries to the skin, as
well as the more serious ones, and
Rexona Soap protects the user from
disease, and ensures both health and
beauty. Rexona Soap is also un-
equalled as a shampoo for the hair.
sooH>
Htol
Anh
•pht
Ointment '
an AbioluU
Cirmifi/ii
Purely
Veg
?;'“V* hU JK u „k.^.
«t
u.
rmrr&m »
v.fc»
y
€>e4ili
skin & fikC mv.
/f=l
□
£2
53
A*
\>z
AT THE SEASIDE
Father and Mother and the pigeon pair can knoek out heaps of
fun together.
It sharpens the appetites of all, so Mother wisely slips into the
hamper a tin of
“Rex" Camp Pie
Then there’s no need to prepare the Sandwiches dt home before
departing, for “Rex” Camp Pie can be eaten with Tomatoes, Cucumbers
or Pickled Beetroot at a picnic. You can also cut into thin slices, and
serve as Sandwiches.
It is cooked ready to be eaten, and is packed in a firm jelly.
Made from the choicest compounded meats. Sold by grocers every-
where.
' ,c-
N
t3N«r
NOdHDNn
ALWAYS UNIFORM
IN FLAVOR,
REX LUNCHEON
CHEESE.
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins.
“Rex” Punch Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
OTHER “REX” CANNED DELICACIES:—
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jelly, lSlb.
and 21b. tins.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in soz.
decorated tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in soz.
enamel jars.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking
purposes, lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
The Ballad of a Queen’s
Laughter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FAINT grew the sound of weeping down
the night;
The spent fires flamed and fell;
The Persian tents in order glimmered white ;
The dead were sleeping well.
A spearman moaned upon his couch of grass ;
The fitful lantern swung.
We heard the sentry’s clanging armor pass ;
The moon was frail and young.
But yesterday the thronging city prest
Its burden on my heart,
And with a sword of custom held the west
And glowing east apart.
I, of the west, a slave to do their will;
You, of the east, a queen—
loved and trembled at the gulf that still
Yawned out hot souls between.
The foeman hammered at the northern gate.
His javelins of fire
Smoked through the skies with trailing
sparks of hate
To light his checked desire.
The walls were strong. The princes, in their
pride,
Laughed in their towers too well,
Till in their sight the sudden breach grew
wide
And the first rampart fell.
The flash of steel, the murder-reddened
street,
The roar of wind-borne flame:
The city crumbled at the Persian’s feet —
A wailing without name.
In the red ruin I arose a man.
You, proud and undismayed,
Red splashes on your jewelled sandals, ran
To shelter of my blade.
I tore a Persian helmet from the dead.
I grasped a Persian spear.
I was as they. Their shouting cohorts fled
Down lanes of death and fear.
The fiery sun dropt red behind the smoke.
I bore you from the place.
A clear bird-laughter from your warm lips
broke;
I saw your shining face.
White tents that glimmered in a ghostly light
Under a frail, young moon,
We left three leagues behind that happy
night.
The yellow dawn came soon.
They broke your jewel caskets open wide.
Your pots of rose and nard
Make sweetness somewhere for a Medean
bride
Whose lord is battle-scarred.
Your beds, with gold and silver lustres hung,
The fierce flames burnt at will;
Yet are your brown arms clinging, round
and young,
And you are laughing still.
A barley-cake upon a glowing coal
Is all your banquet spread ;
You share your chamber with the camel’s
foal,
With stars for. lamps o’erhead.
More than the spicy wine Darius sips
In desert wells you find,
With my hot kisses on your happy lips,
And all your wise heart blind.
A queen....a slave! But I was born so
free
I chose you from a throne,
And lifted you to desert poverty—
My queen alone!
n.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Fares, Please
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a very wonderful thing for
Madame Martinetta —the yreat Mad-
ame Martinetta —to be on a common,
dusty tram at all. Usually one of her
fleet of motors whirled her w-herever
she wanted to go. But the best car had
broken down hopelessly to-day, and the
weather being wet, no cabs or taxis handy
and a tram approaching, she had said to
her faithful secretary, “Let’s go on this
tram, Mark—it will be such fun!” So
there they were on the funny old tram,
Madame in her fine clothes laughing and
looking about her like a happy child on a
new adventure, and Mark with the two
pennies all ready.
They had travelled a couple of blocks
when the conductor appeared. Swinging
himself along the narrow footboard he threw
back the glass doors of their compartment
with a crash. “Fares, please!” he intoned
in a full, rich voice.
Madame jumped on the dusty seat and
impulsively shot out one hand,' arresting
Mark’s fare-arm.
“Fares, please!” boomed the impatient
conductor to the roaring accompaniment of
the wheels; and Mark delivered the money
and got the two tickets.
Madame Martinetta, ablaze with excite-
ment. took h Id of Mark’s sleeve and shook
it. “Did you notice that man’s voice?”
“Yes, I did. It’s above the average.”
The faint praise nettled the great singer.
“Above the average, Mark! Why, I should
think it was! Mark, that man has a per-
fectly wonderful voice. Did you notice
the exquisite pathos he put into those two
commonplace words? Why, I believe he
could make me cry by repeating them over
and over again !” She turned off her rhap-
sodies smartly and became the brisk busi-
ness woman again.- “Mark, go and tell
that man I want to see him at once.”
Mark had been well trained. In two
minutes he had the mystified conductor on
the. footboard outside the compartment lis-
tening with open mouth to the illustrious
lady passenger.
“I am Madame Martinetta —you know of
me, don’t you ? I thought so! Well, I just
noticed how beautifully you called out
‘Fares, please!’ Yopr voice charmed me.
Do you sing?”
“Not as a rule, Mum,” stammered the
honest conductor. “Used to sing a bit before
I was married, but I gave it up.”
“What a pity! Would you mind singing
‘Fares, please!’—just as you usually do it,
you know?”
But the conductor blushed. “Ah, I
couldn’t do that. Missus.”
“ ‘Madame,’ if you please, conductor.”
“Sorry, Madame. No, I’m ’fraid I
couldn’t do it right off like that —not when
you ask me, y’ know.”
She nodded “I under-
stand—you feel nervous. Well, so should
I. But I want you to come and have your
voice tried at my house, if you will. This
is my secretary, Mr. Mark Cleff. He will
give you my address. What time could you
come ?”
The delighted and flustered man thought
for a minute. “Well, Missus —Madame, I
mean ! —how about Wednesday morning?”
Madame turned to her guide. “Have I
anything on Wednesday?”
‘ The Tasmanian girl who wauts to g-'t
your opinion.”
“That won’t take long. Yes”—to the
conductor—“say Wednesday at 10. You’ll
be there?”
“Yes, Madame—and thank you !”
“Good-bye for the present,” said Madame,
extending a gloved hand. As he took it she
said quizzically, “And what is your name?”
“Beg pardon, Madame, Fendlen’s my
name —Richard Fendlen.”
She thanked him with a nod and said
over her shoulder, “Take a note of Mr.
Fendlen’s address, Mark, and tell him where
the house is.”
“Very good,” said the obedient Mark, and
promptly fixed it.
When the tram reached Pitt-street a well-
known violinist noticed Madame and her
secretary alight and nod good-bye to the
conductor, who raised his cap in return.
At the city terminus the motorman said
casually to his work-mate: “That was
Madame Martinetta, wasn’t it, Dick?”
“Yes,” said Dick —almost as casually.
“What did she want?”
Dick was nearly bursting with the good
news. But he was quite calm outwardly
as he answered: “Oh, just an address or
two. Bill. Seems a nice friendly sort.”
Then they started on the return trip.
* * * #
Conductor Fendlen in his ordinary clothes
thought the big music-room at Madame Mar-
tinetta’s a bit bare and empty as he waited
on the appointed morning. Presently the
ever-smiling Cleff came bustling in. “Good
morning, Mr. Fendlen, I’m so glad you’re
on time. When you know Madame as well
as I do you’ll realise how much punctuality
pleases her. There, I think I hear her com-
ing now.” And Madame herself entered
briskly, looking very trim and fresh in the
sort of frock that most ladies only wear on
company afternoons.
She nodded brightly and took a step
towards the piano. “Feel like singing this
morning?”
“Oh, yes, I think so.” Fendlen ner-
vously produced a roll of old songs which
she accepted aud laid on the piano. “Very
well, then, we’ll try something over now.”
The great lady seated herself daintily on
the piano-stool and struck a few rich chords
that made the music-room ring. Then, half
turning round, she shook a warning finger
with three flashing rings on it at the con-
ductor. “Now, I want you to stand over
there and sing ‘Fares, please!’ just as you
do when you’re on the car. Now, try it
with me!” (More chords.) “There’s your
note, see!” (Note struck with decision.)
“Now —ready!”
Fendlen braced his shoulders, struck a
smoke-concert attitude and sang through his
nose with a miserable whining intonation,
“Fares, please!”
Madame lifted her white hands off the
ivory keyboard as though it were hot and
waved them distractedly in the air, at the
same time making a grimace and shaking
her head. It was an impressive performance
and thoroughly startled the conductor. “Oh,
no, no, no! That isn’t a hit like it! You
didn’t say it like that on the tram, you
know! You said it like this!” The plump
singer hopped off the piano-stool, placed her
left hand lightly on her chest, flung out the
right with all its diamond rings, and, with
the air of a gipsy chief demanding ransom,
shrilled in a peerless soprano, “Fares,
please!” It was such a delicious grand-
opera burlesque of real tram life that
Fendlen .had to throw’ back his head and
.roar with laughter. But neither Madame
nor Cleff seemed to be aware that a joke
had been made.
“I want you to do it like that!” said
Madame hurriedly, and resumed her seat on
the stool. “JSioio, please, Mr. Fendlen!”
Fendlen came to attention rather shame-
facedly. Madame struck the chord and he
tried again, “Fares, please !”• —a dreadful
monotonous drawl this time.
Madame whirled round and faced him.
She looked really severe this time and the
faithful Cleff fidgeted unhappily in the back-
ground. “You’re not paying attention!”
shrilled Madame: “that was hopelessly
wrong! You must give your wdiole mind to
it this time. Imagine you are on the tram
and* that the wheels are making the noise
they do. The passengers are talking, so
you have to sing out to draw their attention.
You throw open the doors wdth a crash so,
and cry out so! (Crashing bass chord—
‘Fares, please!') Now 7 , I’m sure you can
get it right if you try; Forget that you’re
in this room ! Try it again!” They' tried
again and Fendlen failed just as brilliantly.
When he saw her signals of distress lie
sought to excuse himself. “I’m very sorry,
Madame, but I can’t do it here —really. I'm
not wdiat you might call a regular singer”—
“Oh, but you will be if you try ! Why,
man, you’ve got a hea-utiful voice, only you
don’t know how to use it. Now we’ll let
the ‘Fares, please!’ go for the present and
try you with one of the songs. Which do
you consider your best?”
“Well. tK’ wife says I’m pretty good in
‘Queen of the Earth,’ Madame.”
(Continued on next page.)


-2 YEARS A CRIPPLE !•
OBSTINATE WOUND ON FOOT
WHICH DEFIED OTHER TREATMENT.
Another ZAM-BUK TRIUMPH.
m
MR. KEARNEY,, who tolls of the
wonderful benefits he derived from
Zam-Uuli.
Zam-Buk is invaluable for
Cuts, Bruises, Burns, Scalds,
Boils, Eczema, Pimples, Sores,
Poisoned Wounds, Scalp Dis-
eases, Bad Legs, Ulce r s >
Abscesses, Ring- pa
worm, Teething 1
Sores, Barber’s j
Rash, Stiffness,
Scabs, Face Sores, Sore
Lips, and injured and dis-
eased conditions of the
skin. .Zam-Buk is obtain-
able from Chemists and
Stores at 1/6 per pot, 3/6
family size (containing
nearly four times the 1/6
pot), or post free from
C. E. Fulford (Aus.) Ltd.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C
MR. W. KEARNEY, of Carring=
ton Street, Rosalie, Brisbane,
says:—“When living at
Toowoomba two years ago I jumped
a fence and landed on a sharp, pro=
trading stick, which ran right through
the fleshy part of my foot, causing a
nasty, jagged wound. I suffered
intense pain, and the wound became so
had that I underwent two operations,
and for about 18 months was walking
about on crutches. The left side of
my body was stiff and sore, and my
entire system seemed to be affected by
the accident. The doctor thought he
li..d abstracted the piece of twig from
my foot, hut the wound kept exuding
matter and caused me much pain,
anxiety and annoyance.
“For two years I suffered, and during
that time I tried several ways to heal
the wound, but my foot was as bad as
ever. My brother-in-law had success-
fully used Zam-Buk for piles, and he
strongly recommended me to try this
halm. I did so, with gratifying results.
Zam-Buk quickly took out the pain and
inflammation, and after using Zam-Buk
for a little time the piece of wood was
drawn from my foot. 1 continued using
Zam-Buk, and very soon the wound was com-
pletely healed, and my leg, which was wasting
away, regained its natural proportions. My
complete cure was entirely due to Zam-Buk, and
to Zam-Buk alone.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
&
4
RUB
IT
111
%
' Slip the
Strop through
the Razor
Move the
Razor to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily-
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
Auto Strop
Safety Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk; and its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
blade renewals, and the time and trouble in
cleaning which every other- safety razor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—The word “VALET” on RAZORS,
STROPS and BLADES indicates the genuine product of the
Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 61 New Oxford Street,
London.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compris-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safety razor, first quality
‘'Valet" horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancet steel tested
“Valet” blades, the
whole n handsome
leather - covered or
nickel case, lined 99 IA
velvet and satin
• Nj
• ■
m
.“AVe’ll try it over then—and you mustn't
mind me too jnueh. I’m very impatient—
Mark knows that, don’t you, Mark?” This
raised a general laugh which cleared the
atmosphere.
Madame then played the prelude to the
weary old "Queen” and Fendlen struck up
—through his nose. He was allowed to
advertise his Queen for half a verse and
then Madame had to stop. “ That won’t do !
Let me think for a minute.” She was
allowed to think.
“Mark, do you think Boleri would be
willing to.put Mr. Fendlen on the right
track?”
“AA r eU, if you asked him, Madame” .
“Of course it means beginning from the
very beginning, but I don’t want him to be
tooled about by —(censored) or —(cen-
They simply ruin voices!”
“Don't yob think we might interest Boleri
in Mr. Fendlen first? Why not let Boleri
discover him !”
“Mark, you’re a genius! AA r e’ll do it!”
Fendlen stood by, not knowing quite what
was to be done to him next. But Madame
put him out of his misery by sending him
home in her kindest manner. “I’ll write to
you in a few days and let you know, when
you’re to come and see me again. I want
to arrange for your tuition with the very
best teacher I know. Good-bve for the pre-
sent—good-bye !”
AA T hen he had gathered up his music and
gone Madame again illustrated for Mark’s
exclusive benefit the gipsyn-hief method of
declaiming “Fares, please!” She said she
had never heard anything better than
Fcndlen’s declamation in any of the grand-
opera houses of the world, and Mark agreed
with her that it was superb—simply superb:
* * * *
The next act happened one working morn-
ing on a crowded tram. Fendlen opened a
compartment door, . intoned “Fares,
please!”—and the next instant found
Aladame applauding frantically with gloved
hands. Opposite her was the smiling Mark
nodding his approval, and next door a stout
man with an enormous bass voice sat bel-
lowing his admiration. Madame patted the
amazed conductor on the shoulder. “Now,
that’s the way you should sing! You see
you can do it easily when you’re not try-
ing !”
“I congratulate you!” bellowed the
strange stout gentleman. “Y'ou have the
magnificent voice!”
“Now, Boleri —-will you teach him?”
“Teach, Madame! —for nothing I will
teach that great singer—for nothing at all!
Ah-h, my God, I haf heard Foluzzi at Milan
and Pizarro at Paris, but never anything
like that!” The distinguished basso rose to
his feet, flung out his arms and thundered
“Fwires, pleas a!” The non-artistic passen-
gers shrieked with joy and the conductor
escaped to the other car to hide his blushes.
But the basso wasn’t abashed. On the
contrary, he flung out his arms and made
a scale of it—“Faires. pleasa! Faires,
pleasa! Faires, pleasa!”
“Bravo!” cried Madame and Mark
together—and at that instant the ticket
inspector opened the door, and, holding the
trip slip before him, uttered bis warning
cry—“ Show tickets, please !”
“ Faires , pleasa! — faires, pleasa!” thun-
dered Boleri, unconscious of the Inspector’s
presence.
“Show tickets, please!” repeated the
official, frowning savagely.
Boleri heard him this time. “It is a
rival!” he_remarked, and sat down. “I have
no ticket." lie added with a shrug. Then as
be noted the inspector’s stern official air:
“AVe have no silly tickets here at all. You
see, we have just been discovering a great
singer, my friend —he is the young man who
sells the tickets so beautifully. Will you
ask him to come back and sing for us again?
I am afraid we have driven him away. But
he will get over his bashfulness in time—we
singers always do, eh?”
The inspector was inclined to make a fuss
about finding a compartment in the middle
of a tram without tickets; but Madame’s
card and a smile or two fixed that. And
Fendlen’s career had started !
The singing conductor is still on the Syd-
ney trams, singing endless grand opera for
the heedless public. But Boleri has him in
hand, and presently Ivennerley Rumford and
a few more of them will find a new star
blazing and roaring before them.'
Madame takes at least one trip per week
on Fendlen’s tram just to hear him sing, and
when in a thoughtful mood her worshippers
are puzzled by hearing her hum a curious
yet familiar cry. Some of the more earnest
students have searched for it in the grand-
opera scores. But nobody lias found it yet.
KODAK.
The Crystal Gazer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MISS BREAKPEACE was breathless
with excitement, as she stood, the
centre of attraction, in the group
of women on the landing.
“It just seemed Fate. There I was stand-
ing looking at the meat in the new butcher’s
window when .she came along—a decent-
looking woman in black, a bit awkward on
her feet through bein’ so stout. I looked at
her, and she looked at me, and then we both
looked at the meat. And just as I made up
my mind to give him the order for Sunday’s
dinner, she spoke. ‘I think,’ she says, ‘that’s
a real juicy bit of steak, don’t you, dear?’
AVell, bein’ appealed to, I looked at the bit
of steak she pointed out, and then went to
the side window to get it closer. ‘What
character! AA r hat thoughtfulness!’ she says
in a deep voice, lookin’ at me hard. ‘My
dear, it’s women like you makes the British
Hempire what it is.’ I looked up quick, and
knew from the far-away gaze in her eyes she
was psychic.”
“What?” interjected Aster the housemaid.
“Psychic ! Clairvoyant,” Miss Breakpeace
stooped to explain,
“Oh!” said Aster, and sank into impressed
silence.
“So then,” Miss Breakpeace went on, “we
got talking, an’ she showed me her crystal
all wrapped up in a black-velvet cloth —silk
velvet it was, must ha’ cost seven-eleven a
yard, sale price. It come from the United
States, and it cost her £SO. She told me she
never has had a lonely or down-hearted
moment since she got it. One night a year
ago she looked into it and saw her husband
being laid out, and, sure enough, three
months later he was dead.”
Respiratory organs could stand the helter-
skelter strain no longer. Miss Breakpeace
gasped, choked, and Miss Sommer leaped at
the pause to ask the • burning question:
“Where does she live?”
Miss Breakpeace whispered mysteriously :
“She’s cornin’ here this evening to see me on
her way to one of the swellest houses at
Darling Point, and if any of you want your
fortunes told, now’s your chance! She’s real
good. She told me wonderful things she
seen in the crystal. The time of the Emden
she got an urgent wire: ‘Come and bring
your crystal. Five-guinea fee.’ And that
telegram was signed by someone in a high
place.”
Miss Breakpeace let her gaze sweep Syd-
ney Harbor till it paused significantly in the
direction of Admiralty House.
“An’ when she got there she found three
men with maps spread out, and two Govern-
ment reporters to take down every word that
fell from her lips. Well, of course, bein’ in
a trance, she doesn’t know what she told
them, but as she come out’of the trance she
heard a short, dark man in a naval uniform
say, sharp: ‘Three wireless messages in
quick succession to the ’ Then he seen
her looking and dropped his voice. But,”
Miss Breakpeace became shrill with triumph,
“the next day the Sydney caught the
Emden.”
A gasp and a shiver of excitement ran
through her listeners.
“Five bob and ’alf a crown!” reflected
Aster, a rosy-cheeked, pincushiony-figured
young person. “I’ll have the crystal,” she
decided. “I’m ’avin’ me weddin’-dress made
to marry ’Erb, but it’s better to spend five
bob than p’raps marry the wrong man.”
"I'd better have the crystal, too,” mused
Miss Sommer, the soulful-eyed little person
who hasn’t heard from her soldier-boy for
three months-—“because if Chari has been
killed, there’s no points in missing my chance
with Jack Green.”
The rest of us, having only unimportant
matters such as “rises” and tickets in
Tatt.’s to occupy our minds, were for the
two-and-sixpenny spasm.
After a hasty tea —“on the wing,” as
Aster expressed it—we waited, in a state
of _ almost boiling-over excitement, the
arrival of the. seer. Miss Breakpeace was
the first to consult the oracle. She came
out looking tremendously important. “AVon-
derful! AVonderful!” she whispered hoarsely,
and then gazed into the fire with a look of
beatific reflection. The young-old girl with
the long upper lip, who has been for months
determinedly keeping company with a young
gentleman in “the bank,” went next.' She
swept out with a triumphant air, and I saw
her measuring the third finger of her left
hand with the stem of a forget-me-not pulled
from the posy in her hat.
Miss Sommer emerged with red eyes.
“Poor old Chari,” she whimpered. “She saw
him lying dead with my photo pressed to his
lips. Heavens, is that the right time! I’ll
have to run—Jack Green has been waiting
twenty minutes already!”
Aster waylaid me as I went in. She
looked perplexed. “I don’ know what to do.
She says if I don’t marry ’Erb this time
I’ll never marry ’im. She’s good, though—
she told me that ’Erb gets sudden rises, an'
that’s true, ’im bein’ a lift-man. But she
didn’t even mention the young gentleman
who brings the coals, although lie’s been
most pressing in his attentions.” (So he
bad. Aster. Many a time have I seen finger-
prints on the waist of your print frocks!)
AA T ith a fluttering heart I entered, to find
the Sibyl disguised as an excessively fat,
greasy-looking female. “Shuffle an’ cut with
the left ’and,” she whispered, thrusting a
pack of microbe-teeming playing-cards to-
wards me. One of them fell to the floor. I
picked it up. “Thank you, me dear —I’ve
got me corsets on, an’ that cooks me for
stoopin’.”
She moistened her thumb and forefinger,
spread the cards in a mystic maze and read
for me the following fortune :
“AYho’s the man goes in an’ out a big
buildin’? You work surrounded by men.
A pen—some man you know earns ’is living
with a pen! Men’s your frien’s, not women,
me dear. A fair woman cuts up to you
with jealousy. Think her a frien’ you do.
but she. cuts up with knavery. A dark
woman across the water faces a weddin’
ring....ls she any relation? You’ll get a
letter concerning the death of an old man—
leaves you money, he does. One, two, three,
four, five, six, seven”—poking at the dirty
cards with an equally dirty finger—“yes.
the seventh card’s the ace of spades”—in a
hollow voice—“reversed. No gettin’ away
from that —a death. Leaves you money, ’e
does. A fair man ’ere ’olds your fate. AA T ho’s
Bill? His thoughts are on you. That fair
woman, almost red she is, a real diamond,
she comes up again with jealousy. Makes
mischief, she does. One, two. three, four,
five, six, seven —spades all round: a bad
hinfluence, she is. Don’t worry tryin’ to
think who she is now. Probably in the
middle o’ the night you’ll wake up, and it’ll
come to you in a flash. A’marriage settle-
ment for you. an’ five children—the youngest
will be a genius, a musician. I see ’im
playin’ before crowned ,’eads —A Royal
Remand, as they say. You’ve got a good
hand, my dear—perfectly formed. Puts me
in mind o’ Clara Butt’s. You’ve a wonder-
ful life before you. Two and sixpence, dear,
thank you.”
That was six months ago. Yesterday
when I was reading the paper I saw
a returned soldier named Charles Smith
pleaded guilty to a charge of brutal assault
on a civilian named Jack Green. Asked if
he had anything to say in defence, the
accused (a heavily-built man with a scowl)
howled with biting scorn: “’E wouldn’t
fight. ’E stayed at ’ome and stole me girl—
the cow !”
NORA McAULIFEE.


W estinghome (Cross) Oil Engines
- -
u. □ a
CD
□
'W)9>/K wj;J.’i.ssTTTTTTTr
10-h.-p. Oil Empire drivinp Air Compressor at 650 r.p.m
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simple in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate,
Hugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARBURETTER to Give Trouble.
Lubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Engines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquix’ies will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
The Westinghouse Brake
To. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West, N.S.W.
12
o
r — FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves sper cent, on
Automobile
Fire insurance -
Price 55/ ■ each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, Sib.; Height, 14".
WORM ALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers anti Agents . Please write.
pa win
.. V 3 -.
rnr
r
Make Your
Own Cans.
We have machines exactly suited to
your needs, whether your output is 5000
or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obliga-
tion, ' prices and pictures of machines
adapted to your needs. Send uS sapples
of your cans, or drawings with com-
plete dimensions, and state the quantity
you make. ■
Correspondence in all f/anguages.
€•l4.
The Max An
Bridgeport, Cohn .
. Agent: H. W. Peahoriy & Co., Sydney, N.S.Wi, Australia.
aUfjlOuOi
GAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
Sole Australasian Agents:
dfh
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; SO Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
KECMAMSHUS
SPEED
.
To make tube screwing faster,
and more accurate, use
fg
OSTER Bulldog Pic Stocks
the tools with five big features: (1) Self-locking, adjustable
dies, (3) self-centreing guides, (3) no running back over
newly-cut screws, (4) no loose bushings to lose, (5) no
breakable small parts. Eleven convenient sizes. Write
for catalog.
THE OSTER MEG. CO., Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHARLES WRICHT, Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria.
L2
Oster Screwing
Tackle, Dies
and Extra Parts
are carried in
stock by
Ironmongers,
Machinery and
Hardware and
Plumbing
Supply Houses.
h
If any illustration app.aring in 'rira
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
x.;>
We Specialise in Sundries
for the Explosive Engine.
""
If you possess a Motor-car, Motor-boat, Motor-
cycle, Portable or Stationary Engine, or Aeroplane,
whether propelled by Petrol, Oil or Gas,
we can supply you with all the necessary fitments to
make it go better for less expense.
Sparking Plugs! Sparking Plugs!!
ng
LODGE SPARKING PLUGS, in Metric, taper, Jin. x 18in. 5/- each.
Weatherproof, in Metric only, 0/- each. Special Racing, 7/6 each.
dfg
CHAMPION SPARKING PLUGS, the equipment of
80 per cent, of the cars made in America. A ping for
every make of car. In Metric, }£in., |m. x 18in.
Ford “X” 2/9, Regular 3/-, Overland 3/3, Hy.
Duty 5/-, Reliance (Sparks in water) 5/6 each.
REFLEX SPARKING PLUGS. A splendidly made
ping. Will not foul with oil, soot or carbon. Once tried
always used. Ford Special 2/9, Torpedo 3/-, Giant
Reflex, 4/- each.
Illustrated List describing all these plugs In detail free.
Send for other Lists.
Country Garages write to us. We will put you on the
right track.
Robert C. swan & Co. Ltd
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. n
mm
o •


MANCROYITE’!
LEATHER
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting', is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured enly by
Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, ar. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
■ • ;%
X : -P
'! : ;
‘Hr
, ‘j r '
£
% r %
Everything for the
Engineer and Blacksmith
Forges,
Blowers,
Drilling: Machines,
Vices, Anvils, etc.
Ask for information on
BUFFALO No. 200-QEARED HAND BLOWERS.
Agents:
Parke 8 Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17:
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD/E & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle.
99
(HIGH PRESSURE)
To Bun a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Most
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
HAS "REGRINDING VALVE,”
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have .permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W,, Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORUD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
“(S
r
V4’«
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland!
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION,
Fill in this Coupon below elating the Class of Land in which you
■re interested and full particulars will come to yon by return Mail*
CLASS OF LAND _
To Director. Intelusenci a Tourist Bureau, Brisbane. O.
dfgdfg
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough —you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
______ throughout A ustralasia.
LITTLE GIANT
STOCKS and DIES
FOR WHITWORTH THREAD
■
-
■ ■
1 -• .Vw ? «*SS3Sm
SIZE NO. 7.
Cuts Threads
163 7 1
4> Te» 8’ Te’ 2’
1 1 1 moTi
8 5 4’ 8* x XUCI1 J
with one stock
to fit all dies,
one tap -
wrench, and
one tap for
each size.
80/ - per set.
r
he Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney. .
iSI
Delco-Light
Safe, Reliable, Convenient,
Electric Light Plant for Country
Homes, Stations, etc. So simple,
a child can operate it. Cheap to
install, and most perfect and
economical to use. Send for
full particulars and prices to
Sole Agents:—
Warburton, Fran ki, Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
Sydney: 309 Kent St. Melbourne: 380 Bourke St.
, it
-
if#
aw
t. 1
*r
if * .
■■' V
em
m
PORTABLE OUTFIT.
BRITISH SUPREMACY
in Workmanship is expressed in
The
s
£Z2
2-Stand
Shearing
Crutching
Set
20 Years of AUSTRALIAN Sheep-Shearing Experience is Sponsor for this Outfit.
Engine, Shears, Ring-oiled Brackets, Angle Steel Frame 8 Grinder are ail Listers.
MNGAR. GEDYE 8 CO. LT#-.
9-13 Young St., Sydney
The Pioneers of
8heep-SHearing: Machines
STATIONARY OUTFIT
HIGH-CLASS ELECTRICAL MACHINERY.
As Sole Australian representatives of the following well=known British Manufacturers we are able to supply
Machinery and apparatus for electrical installations of all descriptions.
MINING APPARATUS A SPECIALTY .
BRUCE, PEEBLES & CO., LTD., Motors, Generators, Motor Converters, Turbo Alternators (except for W.A.).
JOHNSON & PHILLIPS LTD., Transformers, Switchgear, Cables, Arc Lamps.
GEORGE ELLISON, Circuit Breakers, A.C. Starting Gear, Crane Control Gear.
BRAY, MARKHAM & REISS LTD., D.C. Starting Gear, Ironclad Motor Starters and Control Panels.
BRITISH LABOR . BRITISH GOODS. BRITISH CAPITAL .
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, SYDNEY.
Local Enquiries from:—
SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, 379 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE. UNBEHAUN &. JOHNSTONE, 37 King Street, PERTH.
PARSONS &. ROBERTSON, Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE. ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION CO. LTD., Preston House, BRISBANE.
