

DEWAR’S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. Q. WATKINS & CO.
Machinery Merchants, 107 K.ent * Street:, Sydney,
—FO9
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of Neyv South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
t
0
s
Qdvcwice,
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
BILLS DISCOUNTED
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W MONT DE PSETE D.&1.C9 LTP
HEAD OffICE: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
[..■•ext to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh * Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
Ana at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
FIFTY PAGE BOOK— POST FREE
rtygyjhkjh
SLEEP IN OR
OUTDOORS
IN COMFORT
TRY OUR
PATENT BED
For hotels
FLATS, AND
Bungalows
REVOLVES IN
22 INCHES.
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO..
380 GEORGE ST (near s.p o.), SYDNEY.
rtygyjhkjh
HultoiV’.s
Pliyeo^lc."
HamdA Bacorv
‘JcOl£>' ■t/vZ' 's~&d / £o ■ &
CHUBB'S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
B- <v
ivET made from these genuine Tablets
commended by numerous doctors as being
ly nutritious and invigorating for the
tive
HANSEN’S
J
iinket
rtygyjhkjh
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
i
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE SI LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A
PS
Hoing
tvaoji
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY
MASCOT PUNCH & SHEAR MACHINE,
All Sizfes in Stock.
Machinery for Blacksmiths
and Coachbuilders.
Large Stock of Machinery and Accessories for every branch of the Iron and Woodworking Trades.
WE SELL FOR CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRDTTON 8 CO. LTD.
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 Clarence St., Sydney.
MASCOT
POWER
HAMMERS.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
extra
SPECfAL
WHITE LABEL
.v. o.
Gilbert lodge
KENDALL & GENT’S
(Manchester, Eng:.)
Machine Tools for all Trades.
103 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Telephone; City 4126.
115=117 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
P PALO ID
TOOTH
PASTE
| Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
>
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
rtygyjhkjh
lavender
The Bulletin
Vol. 38.—N0. .1943.]
[Thursday, May 10, 1917,
Kegistered at tne General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


0. Henry: A Biography, by C. Alphonso Smith
(Hodder, apd Stoughton). Herbert Spencer, by Hugh
Elliott (“Makers of the 19tli Century” cq ' -5 “ !
Constable, 6s.)
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland!
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill .in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which yon
are interested and foil particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS _________________
CLASS OF LAND.
To Director, Intelligence a Tourist Bureau. Brisbane, Q.
4
.life
4
■
SI
HUDSON’S
Eumenthol
Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
Contains no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive
evidence of the value of “Eumenthol Jujubes as
an Antiseptic.” . „ ..
The Lancet says: "Proved to be as effective
bactericidally ai is creosote.”
»
e»
A—The Larynx,
or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea,
or windpipe. C —■
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D—The lobe of
one of the lungs.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, or POST FREE ON RECEIPT OF 1/6 STAMPS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMIOAIi CO., LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London. [6
The Red Page
O. Henry and Herbert Spencer
O. Henry was the son of a physician who
in later years spent most of his time invent-
ing perpetual-motion machines, flying
machines, “horseless carriages to be run by
steam,” and a cotton-picking contrivance to
take the place of negro-labor. All these
machines, except the first, have been invented
since ; but it is open to discussion whether
the inventions of that crank’s son have not
been of more benefit to the world. Herbert
Spencer, the’ philosopher, was the son of a
school-teacher, who refused to take his hat
off to anyone, of whatever rank, and be-
queathed to his son his contempt for all
authority. Herbert Spencer acquired little
education in his youth; but occupied his
speculative tendencies in inventions, one of
which was “a machine for aerial locomo-
tion.” Afterwards he invented a philosophy
that worked for quite a while.
O. Henry became clerk in a drug-store,
where he acquired a local fame as a car-
toonist and as “the wag of the town.” Dur-
ing those five years O. IleiSry said his best
things with a pencil. Next O. Henry spent
two years on a ranch, always carrying
around with him Webster’s Dictionary. Later
lie became a civil servant. Like Herbert
Spencer, he developed into a skilled draughts-
man. And he fell in love with a 17-year-old
girl and eloped with her. Herbert Spencer,
too, had liis romance, and as it was the only
occasion in his life that Herbert Spencer
ever experienced the attraction of the other
sex, his biographer, Hugh Elliot, deems it
worthy of mention. He indulged in “a
very mild flirtation” for three weeks with a
girl who was engaged to someone else.
Later he met Miss Evans, who afterwards
became famous as “George'Eliot.” In his
autobiography Spencer suggests that George
Eliot fell in love with him, but he cohld
not respond, though, in a letter, he remarked
that she was “the most admirable woman,
mentally, I ever met.” That mentally is
delightful. IIow George Eliot must have
squirmed at the insult to her womanhood !
What chances for irony Fate misses! It
wanted only a tiny readjustment of Herbert
Spencer’s brain, or the chance —or calcu-
lated— swoon of Miss Evans in his comfort-
ing arms, and these two extraordinary char-
acters would have married, and maybe,
settled in Maoriland! For at the moment
when Herbert Spencer was considering the
question of marriage he was also consider-
ing the question of emigrating to Maoriland.
He made a list of the relative advantages
of life in England and in M.L., and though
M.L. offered the best prospects, he abandoned
the scheme, and M.L. lost a remarkable
school-teacher, and an equally remarkable
teacher’s wife.
Q. Henry had hitherto used his literary
work merely as a source of extra income.
But he lost his job as draughtsman, and
became a teller in a bank at Austin. He
even issued a humorous weekly that ran, or
erawh'd, for a year. But he felt the need
for a permanent job on the press. Herbert
Spencer bad also decided to enter a literary
career; ultimately he became, a sub-editor
to the Economist at hardly a living wage.
Spencer’s first book, Social Statics, had to
be financed by a friend, but it was well
received by the public. All through Spencer's
life, whenever he was at the end of his
resources and felt impelled to publish another
masterpiece—most of which never paid
expenses for years 1 —an uncle or some other
relative conveniently died and left him a
legacy of £500 or so. The biographer of
Spencer does not seem to have been struck
by the significance of these well-timed deaths,
and the suspicion remains in this page’s
mind that the philosopher had every excuse
for his probable murder of those estimable
gentlemen, who were of no social service to
the State till they were dead. But Hugh
Elliot is concerned to explain how all through
his life Spencer contrived to turn out learned
books on philosophy, biology and psychology
without having undergone any previous
course of instruction in those subjects.
Apparently he had neither the time nor the
inclination to read what any other scientist
had written on his subject, so that “he came
to each subject perfectly fresh, and thought
out theories de novo for himself. . . .The com-
mercial success which ultimately attended
his works is doubtless due in part to the
fact that he started from ground that was
common to most educated people. Had his
philosophy been based on technical know-
ledge already known, it might possibly have
had a more enduring value, but would cer-
tainly have had a less wide popular appeal.”
O'. Henry objected to being compared with
Maupassant; he protested that he had never
written a suggestive word in all bis stories.
Herbert Spencer noted that only once in his
life had he uttered an oath; but then his
nerves, were out of order and his fishing-line
had got tangled.
O. Henry, as this page has already stated,
served some years in gaol for an embezzle-
ment of bank funds which he declares he
never committed. And the opinion of his
biographer is that O. Henry was innocent,
lie made the mistake of fleeing to Central
America, and then the further mistake of
returning to stand his trial, called back by
the news that his wife was seriously ill. But
in Central America O. Henry met a fugitive
outlaw, who had stepped from an incoming
steamer in a tattered dress suit —a character-
istic O. Henry touch plagiarisesd by Fate.
This notorious train-robber had not had
time to change when lie slipped away to
safety. Curiously, this desperado reformed,
and 18 years later he published the story
of his ultimate success in life. O. Henry
had the trip of his life with the train-robber,
and his experiences were made splendid use
of afterwards in fiction. Herbert Spencer
did little travelling, and most of it was in
search of health.
O. Henry was a model prisoner, and as
lie was a registered pharmacist he soon found
a position in the gaol that left him leisure
to write. He was an unusually good phar-
macist. And in the gaol he found the
characters that made him famous, and the
seclusion that enabled him to perfect his
literary style. Herbert Spencer never had
O. Henry’s luck: he was never even fined
five shillings for drunkenness.
After being discharged. William Sydney
Porter discarded that name, too well known
to the police, and henceforth preserved won-
derfully well the incognito of his pen-name.
He went to New York —and found himself.
Herbert Spencer dictated his philosophy at
intervals between his efforts to stave off
cerebral congestion. His method was to
take his amanuensis out in a boat, row for
five minutes and then dictate for 15 ; or lie
would alternate between a game off racquets
and the dictating of social ethics. But
Spencer soon found that even the convenient
deaths of his uncles had not helped him
much, since lie had sunk over £IOOO in pub-
lishing his works. As soon as his condition
became known lie was offered assistance from
his admirers; but such offers he always
refused. However, Spencer made a profit of
£ISOO from a subsequent volume. O. Henry’s
first stories were paid for, and with his
increasing fame his profits grew—yet lie sel-
dom had any money. He took file easier
method of giving it away.
J*
Spencer’s ill-health remained with him all
the latter half of his life. Even novel-read-
ing was too stimulating for him. He must
have been a singularly unhappy man. He
had lost all capacity for personal affection,
and he brooded much upon his remarkable
ego. A cold fish. O. Henry’s personal
charm, his kindness, his generosity remain
his abiding monument in the hearts of his
friends. With him. “beneath the power to
observe and the skill to reproduce lay a
passionate interest in social phenomena
which with him no other interest ever
equalled or even*, threatened to replace.”
In Spencer’s autobiography he even con-
sented to write for the information of pos-
terity a detailed account of the state of his
teeth and the age at which they had begun
to decay. When Herbert Spencer was in
his thirties he had reached the conclusion
that life was not worth living. O. Henry
lived it. In order to preserve himself from
any nervous excitement. Herbert Spencer
carried with him a pair of ear-pads. Ray
Lancaster tells that when Spencer asked him
to call, the philosopher expounded his own
theories at length, but as.soon as. Lancaster
began to point out one or two difficulties
Spencer hastily closed the conversation by
fitting on his ear-pads, “saying that his
medical advisers would not allow him to
enter into discussions.” And the poor old
solitary man ended by taking opium in order
to sleep at nights. All through Ms life
Herbert Spencer refused all honors offered
to him by the State or scientific bodies.
Such rewards were offered to him too late —-
when he did not need them.
He died in 1903, already a back-number in
scientific evolution, and fighting hard to the
last against the immense change of public
opinion that had relegated his theories to the
background. His death evoked a chorus of
praise from the press; his biographer sug-
gests that these obituaries were written by
journalists who hadn’t found time to study
his views. The Times strongly attacked
him. His death was mourned more deeply
in foreign countries than in England. Her-
bert Spencer was the product of his age, and
his age had passed. O. Henry died at the
height of his fame, with great schemes for a
novel and other work humming in his head.
And since his death his fame has steadily
increased; Herbert Spencer’s has as steadily
decreased. One laboriously built up a gigan-
tic system of philosophy Out of his head, and
the other went to gaol and wrote little
stories—and the world is better for the least
of those little stories than for the whole
dead philosophical edifice of the individualist
who wore ear-pads—on his heart.
“Learner” asks this omniscient page for
the best one-act play in English; and sug-
gests The Man of Destiny (Shaw) or
Barrie’s The Twelve Pound Look. This
page modestly gives its preferential votes to
Synge’s Riders to the Sea and Dunsany’s
The Cods of Peg ana, recently produced in
New York as The Cods of the Mountain;
though critical opinion in New York is in-
clined to place another of Dunsany’s plays,
A Night at an Inn , not yet published, as the
equal of that remarkable masterpiece.
G. Ryan, author of Blade Swan and
White Feather (Kingston Press, Sydney,
6d.), is obviously an aggressive conscription-
ist. -
Forg'it the Referendum —Wot?
Forg'it ’ow gloriously we shunted
Our share o’ flightin' ? Blanky rot,
Proof of an intelleek wot’s stunted.
Never will that day be forgot
Unless some blighter dares to bring
Conscription in again, and to our grief an’ pain,
Carries the blanky thing!
And he remarks, with irony as blunt as
the wrong side of an axe: —
The women of France are the limit,
Their hands are all dripping with gore,
For ife. there’s a French Bill or Jim, it
’S a cert he must be at the .war.
An’ the women of France let ’em go !
They’ve not even tried to. vote “No!”
They know their men are dying by the thousand
every day,
And yet they never say a word to make them stop
away:
They’re 1 dooming murderesses, is what I want to say.
G. Ryan wants to say, and does say, with
vigor and exasperation, many other things—
about the Hughesiliers, and Pacifists, and
Kitchener and Anzac —all in rousing verse-,
and at the top of his voice.
Jt
This page, after having recommended
Prof. J. Laurence Rentoul for the vacant
Pogt-laureateship of Australia, is pained to
see 'what London Times thinks of his latest
work: —-
These poems, though they exhibit Professor Ren-
toul’s mature and polished skill in versification,
lack the simple spontaneity of “At the Sign of the
Sword.” There is a full prose account of Van-
couver’s life and work at the end of the book, which
we found very much more interesting than the
poem. The latter is indeed in the nature of a
historical essay turned into rather stilted phrase and
metre, full of allusions which have to be explained
in notes, and of borrowed phrases in inverted
commas; lacking any very clear line of thought
linking the stories of wells in the Pentateuch
with Vancouver’s Well in Australia, and bringing in
a good deal of really irrelevant matter, such as Scott
and the Antarctic. The whole composition is a
little too suggestive of the school class-room, of
“Explain the allusions in this stanza,” or “Para-
phrase the following.” Both questions would offer
difficulties to the young student; we would very
much like, for instance, to see what he would make
out of Canto 1, “The Song of the WeR.” The same
kind of labored and too-heavily-weighted concision
marks some other pieces, and makes them rather dull
reading.
Australian
Furnley Maurice addresses a letter To
God; from the Weary Nations (Australian
Authors’ Agency, Melb., Is.). This page is
afraid that the letter will bore Cod; but it
may not reach Him : our postal service is
notoriously inefficient. The chances are that
some months hence Furnley Maurice will
receive his letter back from the dead letter
office, with remarks like this scribbled all
over the envelope: “Archbishop's Palace,
Sydney. Not here; try St. Mary’s Cath-
edral. . . .Cone away, try Vatican. Rome. . . .
Addressee left centuries ago. Try c/o St.
Peter. Paradise.... Not at this postal
address; try Kaiser, Earth.... Junior Part-
ner cleared the day after the Battle of the
Marne. Present address unknown. If dis-
covered, please forward addressee, under
guard, to Potsdam.... Whereabouts of God
unknown to Dead Letter Office. May have
enlisted under an asssumed name.”
The writer of this letter, in passable verse,
records his dislike for war. His theory of
the present scrap is that:- —
We hare shown the world this hitter thing :
Men suffering for no end hut suffering.
And he wants us to
Call home the young who suffer senseless
pain
And lea re the war to those who taught them
. hate.
He is annoyed
That ice accused of barbarous intent
The foe that lies in death magnificent;
and his focman is “valorous,” while he
lumps all the combatants as all murdering,
■none brave enough to cease; and accuses us
of having
murdered hope and babes and things
Wrought by inspired fingers joyously.
Earth and her vines may shroud our murder-
ing s,
But what shall kill that haunting memory?
You made us for the light, and here we
tramp
Murky, medieval paths of murder and
gloom.
Evidently God’s correspondent considers
that we are all - equally blood-guilty in the
addressee's sight, all' equally damned; and
apparently he wants us to conclude an imme-
diate and inconclusive peace. But Furnley
Maurice’s attitude is rather vague. How-
ever, the letter isn’t meant for this page;
the recipient, being omniscient, will under-
stand it all. God knows what it’s all about!
And this page will await with interest, and
he delighted to publish, any communication
received by Furnley Maurice from liis corres-
pondent.
C. 11. Bertie prepared a paper to read to
the Australian Historical Society, and made
a valuable picture of very early Sydney.
The Story of Vaueluse Home and Sir Henry
Brown Hayes, now published by the author
in some 20 pages with illustrations, besides
relating the adventures of one of the most
interesting of the early and compulsory
colonists who came to these shores, throws
an illuminating beam upon life in New South
Wales in the first years of the nineteenth
century. Sir Henry Brown Hayes, ex-
Sheriff of Cork, was sentenced to death in
ISOI for the forcible abduction of a Miss
I’ike, a Quaker heiress. The sentence was
commuted to transportation for life, and the
redoubtable knight arrived at Port Jackson,
in the ship Atlas, in 1802. On the voyage
out he had a picturesque row with the
gentleman who afterwards became Sir John
Jgmieson, of Regentsville, near Penrith,
which resulted in the latter leaving the ship
at Rio and reaching Sydney before Hayes,
where lie took up an appointment as
Colonial Surgeon, and was made a magis-
trate. Jamieson scored heavily over Sir
Henry. “On my coming here,” writes the
Irishman, “I found him, by a previous arri-
val, installed in the offices, of acting-chief-
surgeon and magistrate. God help the laws!
Hence I was detained on board, although
exceedingly ill, a fortnight after the ship
was at anchor. Hence they deliberated
whether flogging, hard labor, or Norfolk
Island (the ‘Blackhole of Botany Bay’),
would be my portion, and most certainly I
had fallen a' victim to their villainy had not
caution, my friend for this once only, stepped
in. They, therefore, gave me a kind of mock
trial, for insulting in the Brazils this colonial
surgeon. The sentence passed on me was six
months’ imprisonment in the common gaol.”
And they kept him there for five of them.
There is a gem of a letter, written to Hayes
by his friend, Samuel Breakwell, in 1808,
when the unfortunate knight was in exile at
the Coal River (Newcastle), and Mr. Break-
well was looking after his estate at
Vaueluse: —•
“ This evening a very curious busi-
ness happened which I will give you the
particulars. I was riding down Pitt Row
towards home I met a girl Rosy White’s
daughter she lived formily with Mary Lewis
she ask me if I would give her a ride. lad
uever spoke to her three times in my life I
told I would if she would ride to the farm,
she said she would, she then mounted the
horse and I rode behind, on the road by
Vinegar Hill I met Capt. Campbell Simmons
and a party of soldiers returning from look-
ing after the Havrinton she then being out of
sight, after passing them Simmons desired
tlie soldiers to call me back he askt me what
I was a going to do with that girl. I told him
she was going to 'my farm to live with me,
he then directed the soliders to bring us
back to town to answer for that girl. I told
him to be careful how lie acted that if he
took me in a prisoner he should answer for
their conduct, he told me not give him any
insolence or he would commit me. I thought
he was a magistrate since then I hear he is
not, this was about six O’clock he then sent
us to Braxcell’s in the custody of five
soldiers not to be examined whether I had
committed any crime, without asking me a
question Mr. Blaxcell sent for constables
and dragd me to jail and ordered I should
be put into a sell and the girl into another
however Billy Davis put me in a wose place
for I was forced into the large Hoorn
amongst all the common fellons and there
kept fifteen hours not being permitted to
speak to any-one or were allowed to get a
loaf of bread. ...”
A fascinating booklet, of especial useful-
ness to students of early Australian history.
&
The Children of Kangaroo Creek, by
Frances Fitzgerald (British Austral-
asian, London, 2s. 6d.), takes its place
among the better class of Australian kiddie
fiction. There is little originality in this
story of the trials of a quartette of kiddies
sent to the care of a disagreeable and cruel
cousin in the country, but the author has
quite definitely characterised each of the
kids, and they remain both humorous and
human.
There is poetry in Ilarley Matthews, as
his brief offering. Under the Open Sky
(Ersldne Macdonald, London, Is.), indicates
but hardly makes clear. His songs display
the defects and the excellencies of minor
verse; they are always delicate and true to
nature ; they vaguely express little evanescent
moods ; their range of emotion is small ; but
each little picture has its proper atmosphere.
And he is a delicate craftsman in verse.
His poems of the war hardly suggest war-
fare ; he is best in “A Bush Mood,” too long
to quote, and in this delicate vision of
“Vivien” :— *
Past all she loved we carry her
Beneath the still trees overhead,
That lifeless, soon again will stir,
To day by. day grow lovelier,
Though she is dead.
All, she is dead ! Yet do not weep,
Nor mourn—she would not have it so.
But still in mind her beauty keep,
As Earth feels, though with all asleep,
The sunlight’s glow.
The sunlight’s glow, the cricket's , mirth,
The murmur of the bees in flowers,
And all that tell of daytime’s birth,
Shall Vivien know beneath the earth
Through all the hours.


Uathewfardiffisfoje
Anthony Horderns’ for Fashion ff Economy
n.
W6Z
9/6Z
£906
9&r
r A
&
&
00
0
9/6Z 999
sit
9/6Z BZO6
j No. 878—SERVICEABLE SKIRT, in mixed Grey Tweed, Sell
strappings and bone buttons, finished shaped belt.... 19/6
No. 138—USEFUL SKIRT IN COATING SERGE, lapped seam
down centre, Self strappings and bone buttons, shaped belt;
in Black or Navy 24/6
No. 928—STYLISH WALKING SKIRT, in Black or Navy
Coating Serge, double box pleats back and front, shaped band
on the sides, finished Self' buttons 42/ -
No. 109—STYLISH GABARDINE SKIRT, with double box
pleats back and front, finished belt and buttons; in Brown,
Grey, Light and Dark Fawn 53/6
No. 219—FINE ALL-WOOL GABARDINE SKIRT, full flared,
with imitation slip pockets, finished shaped belt and buttons;
in Grey, Brown, Light and Dark Fawn shades 49/6
No. 319—FASHIONABLE SKIRT, in fine Coating Serge, pleated
at foot, trimmed tabs and Black military braid; in Black or
Navy. Out-sizes only 35/-, 39/6, 45/-
Other designs in Black or Navy. Out-sizes, 25/6, 30/-, 32/6, 36/6
Also Poplin 17/6, 21/-, 29/6
Black Resilda 25/6 30/-
Black Sicilian ... 23/6, 25/6, 29/6
No. 3555—SMARTLY-CUT SKIRT, in Black or Navy Gabardine,
scalloped panel in front, finished belt and cable stitchings, 42/-
] No. 129—PLAIN THREE-PIECE SKIRT, in Black or Navy
I Cheviot Serge, flared shape, finished belt and tabs 24/6
GUIDE TO THE FASHIONS.
TWO PUBLICATIONS have JUST BEEN ISSUED
that will PROVE OF PARTICULAR INTEREST
to LADIES who WISH to COMBINE FASHION
with ECONOMY—ANTHONY HORDERNS’ WIN-
TER FASHION PORTFOLIO, and ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ PRICE LIST of IZOD’S CORSETS.
The former illustrates the WINTER STYLES and
the latter portrays the VARIOUS MODELS of
IZOD’S CORSETS, which are BRITISH made.
Write for copies, POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
No. SILK BLOUSE,-with “Plandkerchief
Front” and new-shaped Collar, finished Pearl buttons; Black,
Navy or Ivory 17/11
No. 865 —-CREPE-DE-CHINE BLOUSE, showing the latest Cape
Collar, fastened with Velvet loop bow 29/6
No. 9063— NINON AND TAFFETA SILK BLOUSE, over Net,
with the latest Bolero front, and Collar 29/6
No. 9078 —NINON BLOUSE, over Net and Lace, with the newest-
shape Collar, fastened at neck with ribbon bow 29/6
No. 146 —CREPE-DE-CHINE BLOUSE, Epaulettes and Collar
embroidered, trimmed hemstitching; Black, Ivory, Prunella,
Amethyst, Tan 29/6
3555
m
■
■
S'S
aauo
?< -
*s£wV
2> wi
ss
cO
£
(Ti T>
4P
to
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


wmcmm
m-
Btfvi
m
Bin
9
& if
18
4,
N
SO
.22 Caliber
Rifles and Cartridges
The pleasure of shooting a
.22 caliber rifle indoors or
outdoors depends not only-
on the skill of the shooter,
but upon the accuracy of
the equipment used. The
utmost care is taken in the
manufacture of Winchester
.22 caliber rifles and cart-
ridges, and for that reason
they shoot with invariable
accuracy. Winchester .22
caliber rifles are made in
various models and styles,
and Winchester .22 caliber
cartridges are loaded with
Smokeless, “Lesmok,” and
Black powder. It is there-
fore easy to suit your taste
and get the best possible
equipment if you will select
the reliable brand.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
PET
VA/y-
-m
'Z's
'S/S,
V'/s.-.-X &
m
m
' //,
m
%
m
m
'impr
m
Raise lever, immerse nib,
lower lever and the
pen is filled.
'"THIS is the simplest, safest,
quickest and best self-filling
device in fountain pens. And
it is to be had only in Water-
man’s Ideal, the World’s
Best Fountain Pen.
Get this pen and no
other if you want
a self-filler.
Other types:
“ Regular ”
and
“ Safety.”
/ The
/V e ver rocket
J Self-Filling
>aterm'an’s
/ (Ideal)
/ —the pen you will
eventually buy .
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, ChelJen Cor tier, gland.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
“A Complete Food
by which even the weakliest can be nourished and
st. engthened such is Banger’s, the Food which is always
;prepared with fresn new milk.
Tne unique self - digestive ingredients in Benger’s
partially digest both milk and Food while you prepare it.
This is why
♦ i
Food
2*4A
can be fully nutritive when digestion is weakened.
Banger’s Food is for Infants, Invafids, and the Aged.
During 35 years’ use by the medical profession it has
fulfilled every claim made for it.
Bentrer’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc. everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin ween preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from:
BENGER’S. FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England-
BRANCH OF F 1 CE : 117, Pitt Stiii? e t, SYDNEY.
And at Nkw York (U.S.A.) 90, Beekman Sr. Oepdts throughout CANADA.
FEDERAL. LORRIES
The Leaders Choice
Many of the world’s greatest manufacturers have selected FEDERAL
Lorries.
Their judgment is based on the records made by FEDERALS in the
hands of thousands of satisfied owners.
They know that FEDERALS will stand the test and take care of
their haulage satisfactorily and economically.
We have records and letters from thousands of these firms who have
found FEDERALS to be more than represented. We will gladly tell
you more about FEDERALS.
Five capacities—l ton, 1| ton, 2 ton, ton, and
5 ton. Worm Drive exclusively.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney : KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635 Adelaide.
' Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[7
Calvert's
Ointment
is just what you may
want any time, any day
a healing, soothing,
anti-eptic ointment.
Keep a supply by you ready
for cuts, scalds, scratches and
chafed or sore skin.
In cases of insect bite, piles,
eczema, or ringworm it has
also been proved useful.
Sold by local Stores & Chemists.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
are: you ft
RuptureD
Have you grown . tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
341) Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
MRS. H. GOUGH, PROPRIETRESS OF TWO WELL-KNOWN STORES
IN GRANVILLE, N.S.W., WRITES A LETTER TO
CLEMENTS TONIC
MRS. GOUGH’S well-known Tobacconist, Hairdressing and Music Stores are situated at
The Colonnade and South Street, Granville. She writes her opinion of this sterling medicine,
and her letter will be read with interest by residents of Granville and Parramatta, where she is
well known in trading centres.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“I have a warm and friendly feeling for Clements Tonic, because it has
proved a great benefactor to me.
“It was in the early part of 1914 that I received a great shock, which com-
pletely wrecked my nervous system.
“It was some months before I was able to attend to my business, and I passed
through a very trying time. Clements Tonic was recommended to me, and I soon
discovered it was worthy of all the praise I could give it.
“Quite a number of business people can vouch for the correctness of my
statement. “(Signed) Mrs. ELIZABETH GOUGH;”
NEURALGIA and how it was banished by this Nerve Medicine.
Here is a letter from 3IRS. M. McGREGQR, Onslow Street, Granville, N.S.W. Tjiosc
who suffer from that awful pain, Neuralgia, should read it.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“It was two years ago, while I was assistant to Grace Bros., that I was
tortured with neuralgia for five months to such an extent that many a night I
could get very little sleep through the pain.
“Many so-called cures were tried without getting the slightest relief, until my
mother, who is a great believer in Clements Tonic, insisted upon my taking that
medicine, which at once gave me great relief, and I was eventually permanently
cured. You may use this as you wish.
“(Signed) Mrs. M. McGREGOR.”
The Third in the Family to Take Clements Tonip with Good Results.
MISS C. BRAND, Valentine Street, Toowong, Brisbane, writes of this medicine,
June 16, 1916 :
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“I feel a deep sense of gratitude, for I am the third in our family to take
your medicine.
“In my own particular ailment it has done me good, headaches and weakness
through poorness of blood.
- “It was six months ago that I collapsed through weakness. I have taken
six bottles of your tonic and my health could not be better than it is at the
present time. “(Signed) Miss C. BRAND.”
KEEP IT IN YOUR HOUSE & IT WILL KEEP YOU IN GOOD HEALTH.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless rfemedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet soothing antiseptic, which
WITT’S
Kidney&BladderPills
| These Pills also act on the Zi yen 4
k, MOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE -J
i&e:
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks' and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidney & Bladder Pills
. Purify the Blood.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres t
•22
*2BO
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD,
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE.
FREE TO
SMOKERS
Mr. Ri J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W..
writes!■
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke ; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“Mv general, health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
I have sold it for overSOyear/
rtygyjhkjh
BONNINGTONJs
IRISH MOSS
Sold Her*
ft >B6O
says the retailer” and there is
nothing in my stock that I can
more conscientiously recommend
for coughs and colds than Bonning-
ton’s Irish Moss. For. over half a
century it has been the standard,
never-failing remedy, and the public
have set their seal of approval upon
BOflflMfi
rtygyjhkjh
BOWIIN&ftV
IRISH MOM
3ol(* Here!
_ 1917
IRISH*MOSS
It acts like a charm in cases of Whooping Cough,. Croijp, Coughs and Colds which
are the children s worst enemies. Always keep it handy Summer and Winter, but
bt sure it’s BonningtonV Large and Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
CELEBRATED
M
*
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure —•
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:— ■
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart. [1
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
Wl
m.
w
/f
v\
5.
Mi
\
L
1
Cffl
fs
Xs'W,
* \
4U-„'
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible —■
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
uschen
t
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song.
Like drowsy ships of molten gold
Far down the West stray cloudlets lie
As dusk’s grave purples, fold on fold,
Possess the sky.
The ships of gold are full of dreams
That still sustain my soul, for they
Are sweeter than youth’s hope that seems
To fade away.
Across the dusk the ships of gold
Sail fairly on to port, and I
Am glad to see, ere I am old,
My dreams go by.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
The Scandal.
Just where did it begin, dear one, the thing
that people called
A scandal, and that caused our friends to
be so much appalled? |
Some counted me the guilty one; they said
that dreaming eyes
Precede the sequel of the love that is not
well or wise.
They spoke with great exactitude; they
weighed the scandal well,
The thing that grew in Paradise —and ended
deep in Hell.
And some maintained the fault was yours;
they said that eyes of brown
Are circumstances twain that break the
world’s conventions down.
They said you came from curious stock, that
surging through your veins
Was that queer blood which only thrilled
when Folly held the reins.
They spoke their thoughts with emphasis—a
court of no appeal
Were those who laid the scandal bare when
Kindness said “Conceal!”
But both the courts were wrong, dear heart,
they did not see the skies
That night—the star-splashed firmament
God made for lovers’ eyes!
They did not see the light that made your
face with sweetness shine
As we across our heaven walked, your pink
hand clasped in mine.
(How came that hand to be in mine? Ah,
mem’ry serves me ill;
It really seems as if the start was —well,
remoter still!)
But this I know: the judgment-folk saw not
the filigree
Of silver light upon your hair that night
beside the sea;
Nor did they hear the breezes croon that
strangely-haunting song,
The words of which ran: “Love is sweet, and
loneliness is long’’;
Nor did they feel that wonder-hurt —that
anodyne-less pain
Which stabs the hearts of twin souls met
that may not meet again.
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.
Prisoned.
Moonlight and wind in a midnight of flowers
Storm at my casement the clipped vine em-
bowers ;
Little mad shadows run over the grass;
The wood god is calling, heigho and alas!
How the poor garden rejoices—and cowers!
Sweets of unrest are his mischievous dowers;
Who but must wake when the Tameless One
showers
Down from a miracle heaven of glass,
Moonlight and wind?
Oh, were I free of this city that lowers,
Sheer earth my pavement and trees my proud
towers,
Through soft wicked forest or moss-veiled
morass
How would- I follow you, Pan, as you
pass,
Throned on the wings of two jubilant Powers,
Moonlight and wind!
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
The Play-boy.
The sea is like a big man
Tired-out and all at rest.
And lie’s lying in the sunshine
And his knit hands on his breast.
But the wind is like a play-boy
With its tricky wiles and ways;
For it tumbles all his big breadth,
And it ruffles all his bays.
Then the white caps dance and glimmer
And the big waves rise and roar;
And the gulls go screaming landward,
And the boats put in to shore.
And ’tis turmoil, foam and fury
That the mischief-thing has made
Where (bad cess to him, the trickster !)
The sweet hands of peace were laid.
’Tis the same with you, my master,
And the same with you, my friend;
When you’re nice and sweet and easeful
With your troubles at an end,
Out of somewhere, somehow loosened,
With a scowl, a shout, a leap,
Comes a sorry, sorry spectre
With gaunt hands to spoil your sleep.
And you toss, and turn* and tremble,
Or foam, and fume, and fret:
And where all was hope and noontide
There is midnight and regret;
And ’tis black the morrow’s looking,
And the daw r n’s a dreaded thing;
And your world grows dark and empty,
And your heart forgets to sing.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


'^vi
iH
a*
il
<ZSi
%
m
COAL LOADING AT PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
PERDRIAU
RU BBER CONVEYOR
BEL
In connection with the Government’s, proposal
for the BULK HANDLING OF WHEAT, the
keynote of the whole idea is the use of a series of
Rubber Belts for the conveyance of wheat from
the trucks to the vessels loading nearby.
Mining. Industrial and Manufacturing concerns
with vast handling and transport problems to solve
are making the utmost use of Rubber Belts.
Perdriau Belts are in general use and giving
entire satisfaction throughout Australia.
Our illustration shows a section of the Rubber
Belts loading coal at Port Kembla. These belts
were manufactured by us and are said to be the
largest endless Rubber Belts in the world. They
load coal into vessels at a rate of over 600 tons per
hour.
Full particulars and prompt attention to all
inquiries.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
ALL STATES.
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee "
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Rook contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting „
8 Spring Street, Sydne .
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
Forge Work a Pleasure
BILLETT'S PATENT HOT-AIR TUYE
rtygyjhkjh
Works without
water.
Gives a Quick,
Clean Fire.
Thousands in use
throughout
Australia.
rtygyjhkjh
Now is the Time to Buy
No. 1. 30/=; No. 2
/Suitable for\
Work/*
35/=; No. 3, 45/=
Purchase from your Hardware Merchant .
SOLE MANUFACTURERS—
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
350 George St., Sydney.
—Tact,
so they say, is merely knowing enough not to know too
much., Any woman who knows what the morning rush
of breakfast-getting means will agree that- it is not too
much to say that
“REX” Lorraine
Smoked Sausages
is just the dish she has always wanted.
It requires no cooking—just immerse the tin in
boiling water for 20 minutes. The piquant flavor
of fresh meat and fine spices is intensified by the
careful “Rex” method of smoking. These
Sausages are tender—-no gxustle or tough bits —
juicy and nourishing. They are packed in a rich
jelly. Your grocer will supply you.
1900 in k
fojjjiitt.JonesaCoifd
DELICACIES.
HAM
[POHK SAUSAGE
“REX” Pork Sausage
is a ready-to-serve-frorn-the-tin delicacy, that
has saved many an awkward situation, when
friends have dropped in suddenly. Also
much appreciated by our soldiers. Include
a tin in your next parcel.
“REX” Luncheon Cheese
IS IDEAL FOR
SANDWICHES.
UN CHE or
(SKHEIEStE
f T.JawE>
THE “REX” CANNED DELICACIES INCLUDE
“Rex’' Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal anti Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork anti Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues, in jelly, lib. tins
“Rex” Lunch Tongues, In jelly, lib
tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues, in jelly, Ulh. and
21b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in soz. deco-
rated tins and soz. enamel jars.
Also “Rex” Lard, for cooking purposes,
lib. prints.
Fog'g'itt, Jones Co., Ltd.,
Curers of "Res” Mams and Bacon,
Packers of "F.ex” Pure Food Products.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
FOR ECONOMICAL RUNNING.
Destined for a Long Life.
Scrupulous Manufacturing Methods.
Business houses in a number of striking instances have
recognised its low cost of maintenance.
Careful records kept by those employing a number of cars
show figures that are gratifyingly low.
Experience further proves that the Dodge Brothers Car is
destined for a long life. The same scrupulous manufacturing
methods that make for efficiency and economy are an assurance
of years of service. •
Standard Touring Car, £340. Standard Roadster, £335.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 3a— No. 1943.
THURSDAY, MAY 10, 1917.
Price 6d.
THE NUISANCE.
THE HEAD FLUNKY: “Person by the name of W. Hohenzollern to see yon, sir!”
THE BOSS: “What, that fellow again? Tell him I’m out!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 Ceorge Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Ntimber, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. , Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and W’hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received, are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Tloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. —IP. G.. P. Per era, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single covies of Th.e Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom , All Sea Ro.ute, 160 z .,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise.: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Hid.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, Jjoe., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 10, 1917.
PLACING THE CHEESE IN THE
TRAP.
War gave the world a heavy sl ock. Peace
will give it another. Any number of people
slouch along from day to day happy in the
belief that this record shake-up will merely
restore a disordered situation to its original
condition. They contemplate a world carry-
ing its kitful of problems and issues and
assorted difficulties back to the previous
address and resuming the interrupted con-
troversies with a mouthful of the old reliable
rant and cant thrown about in the long ago.
Than this there could be no greater delu-
sion. The world is in flames, and though it
may be past the wit of man to describe in
detail now the heap of ashes that will cum-
ber the ground when the fire burns out, it is
a mighty sure thing the cinders will be there.
Nothing will be quite the same again. “We
have gone forward a thousand years,” said
Lloyd George the other day. If truth can
ever be expressed by a figure of speech this
gets close to the bull’s-eye. By war many of
the old problems have been swept on to the
scrapheap. Many new ones have been
created. Into all the others fresh factors
have been introduced. There is hardly a
single question left in the whole field of
national and international politics which
will turn upon the considerations that
applied to it in the past. There are dozens
which will have to be approached from a new
angle. Issues that men had thought were
securely buried are already wriggling out of
the tomb with inquiries about what is going
to be done with them. Arguments and
theories they had imagined impervious to
rust and decay are even now curious relics
of what happened 10 centuries ago. Where
in the new light is Australia going to find
herself? Will it be too strong for her to see
in? Will the leap forward be too far for her
to take, or will she shut her eyes and jump
on the blind, hoping for someone to
make a good catch? This paper does not
know. What it does know is that if a som-
nambulist wakes up on the edge of a cliff he
is liable to make a quick journey to the
bottom. Among the problems that the Aus-
tralia of old wrestled with was that of
Imperial organisation. If the Allies win the
Avar this problem will have to be wrestled
with some more —but it will not be the
original one. That thousand years will
have been at work on it.
* * * *
This will be the essence of the case pre-
sented to Australia and other British coun-
tries :
The war has shown you that without having any
A'oice in the matter war could be made upon you.
Decisions affecting you in the most vital Avay, placing
your very national existence at stake, are made and
will continue to be made, unless the system is
altered, by a Government over which you have no
more control than over the rainfall. To say, under
these circumstances, that you are self-go\ T erning is to
jest—to say that you possess freedom when what you
call your freedom is only secured to you by the
effort of other people is to make mockery of the
Avord, to mistake the shadow for the substance. Can
you not see that every consideration of self-protec-
tion and autonomy demands that you should ha\'e
a voice in the foreign policy pursued by Britain on
your behalf? If you do not then you are evading
your greatest national responsibility—your democracy
is refusing to face the stern facts of life. Would it
not be better that the people in British countries
should stand together for protection, the mainten-
ance of peace and the progress and development of
their several countries?
This seems, to go right to the heart of the
thing. But it does not. The crux of the
issue rests on the alternative, and applied to
Australia, here it is:—
You shall be given representation in an Imperial
parliament charged with the job of maintaining the
empire in part and in whole. It will be responsible
for defence, foreign policy and everything coming
within the category of common interest. The burden
will be shared jointly and severally.
Academic imitations to join in something of
this sort have for many years been as fre-
quent as blackberries. But people and Go-
vernments, in Australia and elsewhere, per-
sisted in shying at them. Now the project is
being pushed with great persistence. What
appears to be a psychological moment has
arrived. The time seems to be ripe. Where-
fore the London Conference has been pass-
ing resolutions on the subject—carefully-
worded resolutions of which the innards are
discreetly concealed by verbal nebulosities.
Public men are dallying with the subject,
and many newspapers solemnly exhort
the populace to recognise that the conditions
prevailing before the war can no longer be
endured. And after all the hot-air about
, unity 7 and all the rest of it has been blown
away, and the thing that has been grappled
with is reduced to plain nakedness, what is it
that stands on offer? To Australia it is that
for the purpose of getting control of affairs
fundamental to national existence the people
should enter an indissoluble partnership in
which their poAvers would be merely a rumor;
their growing sense of independence sur-
rendered for all time; their Parliament
almost completely shorn of national responsi-
bility. Once the power of levying taxation,
making war and controlling foreign relation-
ships-: were vested in an exterior authority,
everything that is vital would be controlled
from outside. It is no answer to this to say
“That is virtually the case now.” Even if it
be so Australia still retains the essential
elements of national freedom and power of
directing their development.
* * * •
If the Australian has any job at all it is
here in Australia. There is a mighty big job
hereabouts, anyway. If the Commonwealth
has any future, worth looking forward to it
is that of a country free to order its place in
the world. Enthusiastic admirers of Imperial
swank forget that manhood follows youth,
and in their visions of the years to come are
blind to the fact that the march of democracy
is at right-angles to the way they would have
the people of widely separate nations folloAV.
By trading on the weaknesses of to-day and
the fears of to-morrow, they would' have
these scattered communities bind themselves
in chains which only revolution would break.
Australia, Canada and South Africa will in
a century hence, unless their history be
violently altered by happenings an organic
Imperialism could do nothing to prevent,
be the homes of millions more people than
they shelter to-day. It is the wildest folly
to imagine that these peoples, connected
though they may be by race*and language
and similarity of institutions, would see in
such a partnership as is now proposed any-
thing but a tyrannical denial to them of that
wider freedom which gave their countries
birth. Such a despotism Avould be intoler-
able. It is not to pave the Avay to a place
where the freedom of nations in the making
may be abandoned that our soldiers are light-
ing to-day against Imperial Germany. If
that were so, their deaths would be a mock-
ery of Australian nationhood. They are there
to help protect the weak from the strong—to
protect the freedom of their own country and
hand doAvn unimpaired the right of the Aus-
tralian people to govern themselves and
reach the full stature of a nation. This is
not what the Imperialist sees. His mind is
filled with notions of domination and mighty
fleets and gigantic armies and millions of
people held in bondage; of nations that will
be free with certain important reservations;
of democracies harnessed to an Imperial
chariot. He points the way that leads to
madness. But the war is creating conditions
and an atmosphere in which these theories
may flourish in far greater profusion than
they ever did before. The purpose of the
Imperialist will be covered up by talk about
many things, about developing the resources
of the Empire, making the Empire self-
contained, participating in co-operate effort
to prevent a recurrence of war, and so on.
This has started already. Behind it there is
the great central intention —to get the over-
sea countries into an Imperial organisation
while the excitement of war is on the pre-
mises. There is no reason, nor has there
ever been any in the pat-*!:, for neglecting
material interests of the Empire except the
fatheadedness of the people concerned. There
is nothing to prevent the Empire being made
self-contained if that seems a gobd thing,
though hitherto Britain has been strongly
opposed to such an idea. Certainly an Im-
perial Parliament would not be any more
competent to do these things than existing
Parliaments. But it is war and defence and
taxation that the Imperialists are mainly
concerned about, and it will do no Aus-
tralian any harm to begin making up his
mind about how much he Avould gain by
allowing the removal of these subjects from
the Commonwealth and how much meat he
imagines would be left on the bones retained,
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. 11.
Prior f j Kirby and D. M. Wright. 214 Gporge
Street, Sydney.]
THE UNITED STATES OF THE
WOULD.
Whether civilisation gets forward on a
powder-cart or is retarded and held up once
the smoke of war gets into its lungs is a
question which the future must decide when
it gets the present turmoil into proper focus
and can see things in perspective with some
regard for their proper proportions. We
have been desperately near the edge of uni-
versal smash; but whether a clearer sight
will enable us to see that the rails under the
engine of progress were sound or that
the track was really broken and the world
only saved by a series of miracles from lum-
bering over into the void is still guess-
work. What does stand out from it all is the
fact that humanity has been properly and
completely scared, and that, with the shud-
der still tingling in the universal nerves,
tremendous efforts towards human insurance
against Hell are likely to be attempted in
every civilised land. The rather colorless
attempts of the past in the way of arrang-
ing arbitration treaties and erecting peace
palaces will not meet the case; the notion
that an international exhibition with com-
petitive exhibits or a series of Olympic
games in which all peoples take part can
promote the sort of goodwill that will keep
the cannon cool seems likely to be laughed
out of court when men tackle the problems
before them in dead earnestness. The huge
insanity of war which mocks humanity out
of countenance and makes the work of the
toiling ages like the play of a dreamy child
■in the nursery must be tackled deep down
and tackled early. As matters have hitherto
stood, the great bulk of mankind would have
gone to almost any length to avoid the
horrors of war; but the existing machines of
government were of such a kind that, despite
the will of the peoples of all lands, wars were
not only easy to provoke, but difficult to
avoid. With the backing of every man who
desires to save his home, his property, his
children’s future and his own skin, and with
the object-lesson of the great slaughter still
before all eyes, it should not be difficult to
reverse things, and create such a machine of
government that wars would not only be
difficult but practically impossible. The tiger
in human affairs is a large and particularly
unwholesome beast;.but the sure safeguard
against it getting loose is to refuse to
keep the menagerie which contains it on the
premises. The world has enough food for
its people, enough air and sunshine, enough
of the joy of life to go fairly round. By
attention to business and the display of a
little horse-sense everybody can have a great
deal more of the things existence has to give
than they have yet had. There is no
reason for the destruction of any of earth’s
people to make room for the rest; and while
that remains true there can never be a
reason for war. Without a reason for war
humanity wall be an ass of a very dull kind
if it ever takes on the destructive business
again.
To avoid the small wars conducted with
jagged stones or heavy lumps of timber, the
original primitive families of man united
into tribes. To avoid slightly larger wars
waged with flint-tipped arrows and fire-
hardened wooden spears the tribes amal-
gamated and became nations. There they
stopped. The imagination of the people
would not go beyond the land boundaries
they could not see with their own eyes; and
only their leaders thought in terms of con-
tinents, while the rank-and-file were content
with a world which ran six miles from the
garden gatepost in one direction and seven
miles in the other. But .the leaders of nations
were in some cases men of real vision; and
when such men got their way there were
attempts to pass national boundaries and
establish a wider peace. Babylon had a try,
and was so successful that a lady could go
unattended in her jolting private chariot
from the Euphrates to Asia Minor —a thing
she couldn’t have done for the last 10 cen-
turies even if guarded by a squad of Anzacs.
Persia followed Babylon with more terri-
torial and less moral success. Then Alex-
ander rose, and through his short reign fol-
lowed up with a Avar-whoop a tremendous
dream of universal peace. To fill the world
with glorious, clean cities of marble, united
by roads free from bloodshed or danger, was
the central notion of his whole campaign.
Mixture of kid, philosopher, war-genius,
drunkard and madman as he was, he did
show the world a track it might safely
folloAV; and the work of his 11 years seems
to indicate that if he could have kept on at
the same pace for 20 more humanity need
never have looked back from its hope of the
Universal State, self-governed .in its local
affairs, but without a frontier on which any
war could be waged. Rome took up the run-
ning, and did more sustained work on the
Alexander pattern, but without the peculiar
Alexander touch of municipal semi-inde-
pendence which might have made universal
patriotism possible among men of alien races
and thought. Then the Gerhog destroyed
Rome, and the world reeled back into an
aAvful mass of brigandage, butchery, rape,
intrigue, ignorance, superstition and dirt.
Slowly the modern nations evolved, and the
bath-towel and printing-press rose out of the
wreckage. For a. moment, on the crest of
the new hope of man, Napoleon dreamt
Alexander’s dream; but the adulation of
fools and the sheer, crass stupidity of
enemies who refused to see his purpose gave
his intentions a twist. He turned aside to
gather crowns and baubles for his personal
decoration; and the hope the world might
have had in his triumph had gone black-out
long before the final wallop of Waterloo.
* •* * *
Wilhelm of Prussia does not look in the
least like Napoleon, much less like Alex-
ander. His effort—big as it is. from the
measure off gun-fire and death—is only in
line with the primal tribal wars. He wanted
something that other people had and tried to
take it by force. If universal peace under
German rule was somewhere in the alleged
programme, its place was quite secondary.
The first purpose of Prussian militarism was
plunder—the old shameless plunder of the
weak by the strong. But the war he pro-
voked has its purpose in that it shows the
impossibility of establishing universal peace
by a war of conquest. That may have been
the road in Alexander's day or in the time
of Julius CAESAR, when the conquered
peoples after a half-hearted fight could re-
joice in the conqueror’s triumph, knowing
well that his yoke was lighter than that of
their own chiefs and rulers. To-day all that
is changed. There is no country in the
world willing to submit to the yoke of
another: and probably there is no country
with any decent measure of civilisation of its
own that would be in any way advantaged
by the butting in of another. But, on the
other hand, a tremendous new' hope is to be
found in the spectacle of a vast group of
democratic nations armed in a single cause
and supporting one another with the utmost
lovalty in the furious death-grapple with the
German. The struggle lias ceased to be a
war in the old sense. The allied armies
represent a gigantic police force with the
moral force of all nations behind them—even
the moral force of the best elements in Ger-
many when that force gets room and play-
engaged in the task of arresting the criminal
nations caught in the act of robbery-under-
arms. From the tremendous alliance of the
democratic nations now in existence to the
creation of the United States of the World
should be an easy step. The poor little move-
ment to tie up the various countries under
British rule into a closer organisation that
may dominate the world looks shabby and
mean in the light of the possibilities of that
larger union. Why, for instance, should
Australia be asked to enter any union of
peoples which excludes splendidly democratic
France, or the new and cleansed Russia
which has tossed out the big-hats and swin-
dling officials to make room for Ivan’s
natural decency and honesty of purpose/
Why should a union of the English-speaking
peoples be expected to get along without the
United States, the biggest of all English-
speaking countries? What the world of men
demands to-day is not a re-arrangement of
empires which may provoke new inter-
national jealousies to be settled by some
larger and more awful sword in the future,
but the utmost freedom for all peoples to
develop themselves as they will under a joint
police control to maintain universal peace.
* * * *
The United States of the 'World might
develop certain larger powers of control as
invention narrowed distances and the refer-
endum of all nations voted; but its first and
primary business would be to police the con-
tinents and seas. That done, and war, as it
has hitherto been known, entirely, eliminated,
the whole face of the world would change;
and man would find his real place in the sun
and his real share in the world’s wealth
without having to pause in the process of
improving his reaping machinery to hammer
out a gun for the destruction of the man
over the fence. The old boundaries are down
—shot away by German guns and obliterated
by the menace of Zeppelin and submarine.
It is the world’s business to see. that they
are never erected again, not to tinker them
up in new and more provocative shapes.
French courage and Italian . initiative are
toiling in the service of Britain and Russia.
British valor and French war-genius hold
the front for America. The cash of all
the Allies—which is their faith and hope and
sweat in terms of world-credit is mixed as
is their blood on the battlefield. It is the
great opportunity of the ages, and before the
promise of a permanent union of the peoples
in the United States of the World all meaner
ideas shrivel up and are lost. The grander
patriotism when man can take pride in his
world is not beyond the range of the sober
and practicable.
CHRISTIANITY, DECEASED.
When Wilhelm the Last signed the mobi-
lisation order for Germany, and, in the
picturesque but probably invented scene,
threw his pen angrily across the table, with
a “Gentlemen, you will live to regret this!”
he affixed his Christian name to something
more important than his own death-warrant:
he signed the death-warrant of Christianity.
Of Christianity, not of religion. It is true
that this present age is too near this historic
event to perceive the full significance of it;
the cathedrals still stand —except in Belgium
and Northern France —priests and presbyters
still go about their and their Master’s busi-
ness apparently unperturbed; officially there
are still State and other religions in full
blast; and in Australia Anzac Day is cele-
brated with religious services. But the
historian of the future will have a clearer
vision, above the dust of the present that
encompasses us, and one day that historian,
sitting before his gramophone to dictate “The
Decline and Fall of Christianity,” complete
in 10,000 gramophone records, will fix for
the beginning of his first chapter the historic
date, a.d. 1914.
* * * *
Like empires, religions take a long time
dying. Usually they are quite dead for a
century or so before any inquisitive person
suspects mortification or notices the smell.
The Roman Empire was in a state of ad-
vanced decomposition long before it occurred
to Alaric, the Goth, to visit the morgue at
Rome. It was not the Roman Empire that
fell before the barbarian ; he merely interred
the body, acting thus as an inspector of
nuisances for the world. So the Christian
religion was more or less a corpse long before
the outbreak of the world-war disclosed the
shocking truth. All Wilhelm the Last did
was to dispose of the remains, burying it
beneath shell-stricken cathedrals.
Christianity has had a long innings. It began
in a humble way among a group of poor
brown fishermen in an out-of-the-way corner
of civilisation, among a conquered tribe go-
verned by its own good by a stern Roman
Administrator. But there was a living seed
in that despised religion; and St. Paul, an
expert horticulturist, scattered it broadcast
throughout the known world. The seed fell
in favorable soil—the yearning hearts of the
slaves and the poor and the downtrodden; it


brought a message of hope to their souls;
and though the immediate reward of
Christ’s second coming within their genera-
tion, in which the early converts earnestly
believed, had to be indefinitely postponed, the
basic truths of the young religion, preaching
meekness and tenderness and love, won the
hearts of a yearning world. But success
brought its dangers. Christianity con-
quered, and with the whole known world, of
the one faith, the Christians had nothing
else to do but to begin arguing, using
logic and battleaxes, dialectics and massacre,
controversy and crucifixions with equal fre-
quency and equal effect. The gentle, beau-
tiful religion became a creed: the successors
of the fishermen became popes and emperors.
* * * *
Christianity became official, and its record
is the history of civilisation. It is a stir-
ring record. It caused all Europe to blossom
strangely and gorgeously into cathedrals; it
drew the flower of all the medieval Billjlms
of Europe for centuries on a hopeless quest
for the capture of the Holy Places; it led
armies not only against the Saracen but to
the sacking of Constantinople and ruthless
civil wars with fellow-Christians; it
slaughtered the flower of humanity in long,
dragging religious wars; it stage-managed
the Inquisition; it kept the home-fires of
Smithfield burning; it arranged official
massacres and instituted pogroms; and all
through it tortured and murdered science;
and yet underneath all this wanton waste of
human lives it worked quietly and unself-
ishly bringing comfort and balm to suffering
hearts. The religion remained in the hearts
of humanity; the creed became a sword —
and so it perishes by the sword.
For a generation now the officials of the
Christian religion have deplored its decline.
The splendid enthusiasm that created the
cathedrals of Europe has faded. No one
builds cathedrals now. We have lost the
inspiration and the art. All we do is to
copy, and debase, the splendor of the Middle
Ages. The cathedrals of Australia are
merely poor imitations of an art long ago
lost; there are no architects of modern
cathedrals which would express, in modern
terms, the religious enthusiasm of the Middle
Ages; there are no artisans inspired with
that devotion to God that is to be found in
the least important carvings of the innumer :
able angels that poise on those great fanes.
Gothic architecture is as out of date as the
burning ideals that inspired it. We take our
religion with indifference, with easy toler-
ance. Our preachers thunder against the
decrease in our attendance at church or
chapel, the degradation of the Sabbath, the
disappearance of grace at our meals —at the
Civil Service or Farmer’s this paper has
never once noticed a single customer at lunch
utter grace, or even bend silently to breathe
a silent thanksgiving—the transformation of
Good Friday into a Good Time at the Show,
and the swift alteration of the word “holy
day” into holiday.
And in thus publicly calling attention to
the decline in the observances of Christi-
anity the representatives of the religion fail
to see that they are arraigning themselves.
When a bishop denounces the growing immo-
rality prevailing in his diocese he does not
suspect that he is merely proving his unfit-
ness for his job. His job is to make people
good : he seems to take pleasure in pointing
out that he is not succeeding in making people
good. When a parson exposes the prostitu-
tion or the opium dens in his parish he
merely proves that he, and the creed he repre-
sents, has failed to inculcate the first prin-
ciples of his faith. Christianity started out
bravely to make a better' world; it succeeded
—until it became merely an organised State
religion. And after 1000 years of making
the world a better world, this noble faith is
unable to prevent the nations plunging into
a dreadful war. It has not made people good
enough to stop fighting. For the last three
years the world has plunged back into the
w r elter of barbarism preceding the beginning
of the Christian era. All the Christian
virtues have been thrown overboard, or re-
tained only at the awful risk of defeat and
destruction. Honor, truthfulness, fidelity to
one’s bond, forgiveness, charity, faith in
one’s fellow-man, are in imminent danger of
disappearing altogether from the world. In
such a convulsion as is now raging these
virtues do not pay. Even the British Go-
vernment has adopted the worldly-wise policy
of retaliation, though archbishops shrilly
protest. It is curious that this war, one of
the few wars in history not entered in for
religious causes, should thus so dramatically
prove the failure of Christianity. Simply
Christianity has failed to make good; it has
failed to make men good.
* * * *
But the world needs a religion; without a
religion no soul would find life worth living
or death worth while. And out of the debris
of official Christianity a new religion is
gloriously rising. It is the religion of
humanity. On Anzac Day what do we cele-
brate —the Christian virtues of the meek-
ness and kindness and goodness of Billjim,
or his manhood? This war is the revela-
tion of the splendor of humanity. From the
mud and grime of modern war emerges one
beautiful and immortal thing, the nobility of
the human soul. Man has become his own
god ; he has become his own religion. The
careful division made by Christianity
between the sheep and the goats no longer
stands; the Christian Billjim and the back-
slider or never-was Billjim shine out in the
great test of war as equally heroic; the
meekest Congregationalist and the roughest
member of the push are brothers in bravery.
The essential soul of mankind shines over, a
darkened earth, a noble soul, despite Chris-
tianity’s weeping over it. a soul divine, fit
for mankind’s worship. Man needs no gods
now’: he is a god himself. The preachers
whom once we looked on as merely persons
who put on their clothes backwards have
proved themselves —not parsons, but men.
The chaplains at the Front no doubt busy
themselves, when they have got time, at their
official jobs; but happily there is so much to
do in merely human service and
ship to their men. and the padres are so
eager to do it that for Billjim the padres
are merely tbvir cobbers. In the padres
Christianity has had perforce to make room
for lowlier but more human needs. To their
everlasting credit they serve humanity and
not their creeds. And the only religion that
has become popular is the new, creedless
and tenderly human religion of service to
one’s fellows known as the Y.M.C.A. The
Y.M.C.A. tents close up to the firing-line are
the cathedrals of mankind’s new faith, in-
spired by the same enthusiasm that in-
spired the builders of Gothic fanes.
The heroism that it is to be found in
every human being, that depends not at all
upon the hero’s Christianity or lack of Chris-
tianity, is sufficient basis for our new reli-
gion. The meek do not inherit the earth,
though there is nothing to prevent the strong
who by virtue of their masculine virtues
will inherit the earth from having humility
in their souls. The Christian virtues are
suffering from shell-shock;_ but. out of the
carnage emerges a new set of virtues and a
new religion, and the battle-cry of this new
masculine religion will be: “There is no god
but mankind, and Billjim is its prophet.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bad Habit of Wearing a Wig Too
Long.
When a litigant who happens to be refused
an adjournment of his case tells the Bench
that it is too old for its job and throws
derision at his Honor’s mental equipment, the
incident is naturally spoken of in the news-
papers as “painful” and “disgraceful” and
so forth. So it is; but not quite in the way
suggested. The happening in Sydney Equity
Court last week was a case in point.
There had been a suit pending in which A.
H. B. Conroy, formerly M.ll.tv. for Wer-
riwa, was called upon to defend claims
regarding an alleged trust created by or for
his wife. The case was very involved both
in law and fact, and as Conroy had been in
pursuit of Joe Cook’s scalp as a candidate
for Parramatta, he asked, through counsel,
for an adjournment on the ground that he
had not been able to prepare a defence, that
his time was taken up heaving bricks at
Phewsion, and that, generally speaking, pub-
lic ' questions were for the moment more
important than law. The Chief Judge in
Equity Simpson refused an adjournment;
whereupon counsel withdrew from the case
owing to having no .instructions. Conroy
promptly rushed himself into the legal
breach and proceeded to make remarks to
Simpson about his state of mind and
advanced age of a very intimate and candid
nature. This paper is doubtful whether
participation even in the good work of expos-
ing Cook should be accepted as reasonable
ground for adjourning a Court case. Cer-
tainly a contention by one of the parties
that the presiding Judge is a fossil could
not be so accepted; otherwise no case on the
file would ever come to hearing, and Law
would become a joke. And it is mighty
questionable whether throwing heated obser-
vations at the Law ought to be encouraged.
But whatever may be said about Conroy or
the merits of his application there is little
doubt that what he had to say, painful
though it may have been to everyone on the
premises, had long been waiting for expres-
sion. Simpson is 74\vears old. He should
not be on the Bench. This is well known to
the Government and to every practitioner in
Equity jurisdiction. It is wrong for any
man of this age to be on the Bench. In the
particular case of Simpson the thing is a
scandal. Conroy’s manners have been
bad —the basis of this application to the
Court flimsy—but responsibility for what
happened rests more heavily upon the Govern-
ment which maintains on the Bench Judges
whose presence is a standing challenge to pro-
testation than upon Conroy. If Ministries
will not do their duty and protect the Courts
by keeping the ground clear of reasons for
hostility it is not much use framing regretful
phrases when the inevitable earthquake
arrives. This paper has asked many times
during the last year or two how much longer
several of the ancients who do not decorate
N. S. Wales Courts are going to be at the
old address, and it now makes the same inquiry
again. Conroy at the worst did no more
than express in loud, aggressive and insulting
terms that which should have been politely
brought under the notice of Simpson and
three or four others by constituted authority
long ago.
♦
The Insult of the Hospital Catlge.
Last week Sydney once more endured the
indecency of the hospital street cadge. The
collecting-boxes rattled at every corner, and
otherwise respectable women smirked like a
revue chorus to entice pence from the passers-
by in order that some fat persons might escape
bearing their fair share of a public burden.
Apparently the annual shame of the thing
will continue just as long as people put their
pennies in the boxes; and comparatively
few men have the moral courage to refuse.
That such a system of raising money for the
support of the sick and injured of the com-
munity should remain unaltered after years
of alleged Labor rule in New South Wales is
a pretty fair commentary on the honesty of
purpose of the administrators concerned.
The first and most valuable possession of the
State is the health of its people. Without
this, all the rest counts for nothing; yet
instead of making the upkeep of hospitals the
very first charge on public revenues the thing
is left to what is described as “public
ehnvity.” There is no sort of charity about
looking after the sick. It is a plain public
duty, and as such should be paid for out of
equally-distributed taxation. The hospitals
not only relieve distress, but protect the
general health of the community; and for
that reason they are in the nature of an in-
surance which makes every pound spent
upon them by the State an excellent invest-
ment. But if the State rose to its duty in
the matter, and paid for hospital upkeep in
a regular and straightforward manner, a few
of the wealthier people in the community
would be compelled to pay a few additional
pounds annually, while the poorer peonle
would contribute sixn»nce where they now
give half a crown. The sick are left at the
mercy of haphazard charity, and well-inten-
tioned women pleading in what they believe
to be a good cause are exposed to insult and
compelled to bandy words with drunks and
leering baldheads in order that the poor may
be given an opportunity to pay the dues
of the rich. The rotten system remains
while the people endure it; and the people
will endure it just as long as they are blind
to the fact that every hospital box rattled
in their faces is an insult to their civic
intelligence.
Scientific Savings—a Lesson for
Deadbeats.
Before Holman fled to London it had been
agreed by the N. S. Wales Cabinet that the
country ought to be able to make both ends
meet by borrowing not more than £5.400,000
a year and doling the miserable sum out at
the rate of £420,000 a month. This,
of course, merely represents the crystallisa-
tion in public policy of the well-known prin-
ciple by which the workers end even every
week with the butcher and baker. By earn-
ing £3 19s. Gd. per week and borrowing £l7
10s. 4d. it has been found by experience and
Ivnjbbs that an economical family can avoid
getting into trouble with the time-payment
collector. But Jack Fitzpatrick, who is
mounting guard over the cashbox in Hol-
man’s absence, seems to be an economist of
the skinflint variety, the result of his opera-
tions being that the Government was able
the other day to communicate an item of
news which Sydney Telegraph rapturously
suspended beneath these headings—“ Sa-
ving Money.” “Treasurer’s Achievement.”
When startled citizens had absorbed the
arithmetic it transpired that Fitzpatrick
was tootling on a ram’s horn about having
“saved” £190.000 during April by the des-
perate expedient of touching Coiien for
£230.000 to keep things moving instead of the
usual monthly allowance of £420,000. This
seems to more than justify the suspicion that
Fitz is a financier of great imagination. Any-
how, saving money by deciding to borrow a
million, but at the last minute getting away
with about only half that sum, requires a
nimble originality of mind. If he continues
this ruthless saving for any length of time
Fitz will be able to hand the press some-
thing of this kind :
ECONOMY OF THE GOVERNMENT.
Helping tiie Nation to Win tiie War.
It is estimated by the Treasurer (Mr. John Fitz-
patrick) that the savings perpetrated by the Govern-
ment during the last three months have resulted in
£9,000,000 being added to the spending power of
the people, and made available for war purposes. At
the beginning of May the Cabinet unanimously
decided that the expenditure of borrowed money
should be restricted to a mere # 6,000,000 per
month. Yesterday the Treasury was able to announce
that, as the result of rigid economy, the outlay for
the preceding three months had been only
£18,000,000. The position therefore was this:—
Estimated borrowings ..£27,000,000
Actual expenditure .. 18,000,000
Savings .. .. £9,000,000
The whole of his sum is therefore available to win
the war, and can be directly attributed to the policy
of saving every shilling adopted by Mr. Fitzpatrick.
Meanwhile if any Australian business under-
taking wants to be prosecuted for reckless
trading and land the management in the pene-
tentiary, all it has to do is to start borrowing
heavily to pay dividends and salaries with,
and then issue a balance-sheet concealing that
the stupendous profits for the year consist of
income derived by not making any and
achieving losses which might have _ been
twice as large if they had been multiplied
by two.
♦
The Whole Duty of Manufacturers.
From a man who knows the business: —
For a strong, convincing statement of the case
for the Australian worker in local manufacturing
industry one must go to James Law, the Pelaco
shirtfounder, who recently lectured to the Royal
Society of N. S. Wales on the sins of the employer.
The burden of Law’s discourse is that Aus-
tralian factory-workers are the quickest and slickest
in the world," not to say the most sweetly reason-
able, provided always that the employer supplies the
organisation necessary to giving them a Fair Deal,
and gives it to them in a friendly spirit. An
Institute of Victorian Industries is projected by
Hagelthorn, of the Education Department, and
this enthusiastic apostle of efficiency has been nomi-
nated for the committee, together with 11. V.
McKay, two or three other manufacturers, and the
Melbourne Trades Hall leaders. The programme of
the Institute is to include an Industrial Bank, and
as a reform movement -its possibilities are great.
Jim Law was no ardent believer in native industry
when he started life as a warehouse employee in
Flinders-lane. His parents had brought him up to
their faith in Bonnie Scawtland, but his friend
Pearson (now his partner), who had come from a
Glasgow warehouse,' advised him to thank Heaven
he was born hereabouts.
So they were of one mind concerning local con-
ditions when, still in their twenties, they combined
to run a little shirt factory in Carlton, Melb.,
less than nine years ago. They started with 14
machines and 18 employees, and began to get on.
To-day, in their factories at Richmond and Fitzrov,
they have the goodwill of 500 employees, yet their
business is only in its infancy, they say. The
doctrine of Law holds that the goodwill of that
young army of workers is the firm’s best asset. In
its nine years’ experience the firm has never suffered
a strike or had to deal with any unpleasantness on
the labor question. The piecework or task and
bonus system is completely satisfactory with
Pearson, Law. Ltd. If a recently arrived girl can
earn 28 shillings a week on piece, say, she is
given a wage of 30 bob and a set task, with the
inducement of a proportional bonus, paid monthly,
on all work done in excess of the least expected of
her. Thus she is encouraged until she may earn
half as much again and more. Life is made worth
living in the factory. Morning and afternoon they
all knock off work to go and get tea provided on
the premises by the management, and on Saturdays
the show is closed. It is claimed for the Pelaco
shirt and collar makers that they \york the shortest
hours, get the highest wages and turn out the best
goods because of the system that prevails. They
are not favored by the fact that they live in what
a sneering, hard-shell Tory calls “the paradise of
the working man.” This particular industry, it
seems, has nothing to fear from “lower rates of
wages prevailing abroad.” The rates in Britain
arc practically the same as here, on the evidence
r.f workers who have come direct from a factory in
the old, slow country. But now they can earn more
than twice as much as they did when they worked
longer hours.
Organisation, standardisation and all possible
efficiency in machinery combine to do the trick. The
providing cf facilities for doing, good work makes
good work done. Employees are induced to offer
suggestions for increased efficiency in their individual
jobs, and if the idea saves money the suggestor gets
half of the weekly saving.
The Pelaco people reckon that English labor is
the dearest in the world, being ill-directed and
comparatively unproductive, alike to the worker and
the boss. Fifty hands have to do with one collar
ere it is boxed for sale, and in this organised
multiplicity of detail there is wisdom, apparently.
For the past two years the firm has been aide to
insist on stamping the goods with the trade brand
and the “Made in Australia” label. Although there
was no middle-man to make an objection the local
brand had to be forced upon the market at first.
Big shops wanted their own name on the goods, and
retailers as a rule jibbed at “Made in Australia.”
The Pelaco branders had to pay dearly for their
innovation in its first year, and light up to now
they have done no business with a Sydney store
which offered a large order on the condition that
the manufacturer’s Australian identity should be
unrevealed on the goods. But young ,T. A. L.
Law is not a lecturer on his own private trading
affairs. What he is striving, as a patriotic Aus-
tralian, to impress upon all manufacturers is the
need for studying every means to improve the lot
of the worker by introducing all possible facilities
for rapid work, and humanising the relations
between employer and employee. His ideals in
Efficiency go far beyond the possibilities of the
present Pelaco factories. He is a man with a
mission—to pave the way to better wages for the
quickest and most teachable nation of workers on
earth.
«
When N. S. Wales Governor Strickland
faded over the horizon the other day Cul-
len, Chief Justice, was sworn in to hold
the fort pending the arrival of an exotic
Cocked-Ifat, and told to inhabit Guv’uient
House, draw half the ordinary vice-regal
wages, and go on with his usual job in the
meantime, lip to the present no explana-
tion has been given as to why Cullen
should find it necessary to shift from where
he lives as a usual thing, nor of what advan-
tage it is to the community to import some-
one to do, at twice the price, what Cullen
can tackle in his spare time at a reduced
rate. There have been no leading articles
in the Herald pointing out the danger to the
Empire, nor truculent yells from the Tele-
graph that the linch-pin is missing from the
constitutional ’bus. The change has been
made without anyone taking particular
notice, and unless Cullen draws atten-
tion to himself by refusing to call H.
Mclntosh to the Leg. Council, or catching
a cold in his head through sitting in the
large draughty establishment vacated by
Strickland, everyone will have forgotten
all about the absence of imported millinery
within a week. Which again raises the
question of whether it is any use importing
millinery to hold the Empire together—-of
whether this wild farce of Australia paying
out solid coin to provide nourishment for
Seven Cocked Hats, and all the current sur-
roundings of A.D.C. and private secretary
and flunkeydom ought not to be knocked on
the head as a gross extravagance. Even to say
that Australia can afford such tomfoolery as
is represented by half a baker’s dozen of
props of the Imperial connection is to assert,
what is obviously untrue. To pretend that
the national safety depends upon flummery
and sham is to make out a case for the whole
population migrating to the McDonnell
Ranges. A claim that in some occult way
the fires of patriotism are kept burning in
the breasts of the inhabitants by supporting
total strangers would scarcely be swallowed
at a guzzle under the patronage of the Mil-
lions Club. There is not a single reason
why N. S. Wales should import another of
these figure-heads. There are a dozen why
it should not. Snobbishness and extrava-
gance have been experimented with long
enough, and a good way to start laying an
axe at the root of the tree would, so to
speak, be by running a pair of shears over
the roosters’ feathers.
♦
A line or two from Dublin :
Now that Home Buie is likely to fie pressed for
by Woodrow Wilson as a. direct step towards
winning the war and Lloyd George is talking- as
if the Tories in his camp were yielding ground and
really meant to do a. proper thing by the island of
ancient sorrow, a correspondent butts into the
controversy and asks The Bulletin to explain what
he calls its inconsistent attitude on the question. He
says:—•
“When I voted for Federation, I and thousands
of others thought we were voting for unification.
You have shown the folly of keeping 14 Houses of
Parliament in Australia with the great cost, clashing
of interests. State jealousies, etc. Still, in Groat
Britain they very rightly have unification, and the
thing you advocate would break this up. If Ireland
had Home Rule, Scotland and Wales would want
it also; and this would lead to 10 Houses of
Parliament in Great Britain.”
The Bulletin advocates a united Ireland just as it
has always advocated a United Australia; but
it does not advocate an artificial union of
Ireland with a country foreign in thought
and race any more than it would advocate
a federation of Australia with India or sug-
gest that Java should be forced to join the Australian
Commonwealth. Neither Scotland nor Wales has ever
pressed for Home Rule since the days when Welsh
and Scottish sovereigns took charge of the throne of
England, for the good reason that there has never
been a rooted prejudice against Scottish and Welsh
progress in the minds of English rulers and legis-
lators. In the ease of Ireland it is different. The
perpetual clash of view between England and Ireland
over a period of 700 years has emphasised that race
difference which makes effective union impossible.
The two countries may become the best of friends
and the most enthusiastic of iovers if a fair thing
is done even now; but the English majority in any
joint legislature completely dominating Irish thought
makes union in any profitable sense impossible.
Further, Ireland has never been willingly united to
Britain, and the strongest advocate for Federation
of Australia never suggested that any unwilling State
should be forced into the Commonwealth partnership.
•
N.S.W. Minister for Land's Ashford put
up a crude bluff the other day in answer to
cocky’s Federal organisation.' At a meet-
ing held in Melbourne last week un-
complimentary remarks were dropped about
State resumption of private lands for
settlement and suggestions were made that
in connection with this business boedling
was more or less rampant. Wherefore
Ashford struck an attitude of astonishment
and asked for evidence of the particular


| GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg: to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the .
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co.. Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liauidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the. Stocks of Whisky. Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that, the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W. *
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner P ; tt
& King' Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE. &. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
AUSTRALIAN WOODS IN CLOCKS
Another step towards Australian self-containment has been
made by making our beautifully-marked Australian Woods into
popular-design Clocks. More beautiful woods are not found in
any country. Our Figured Oak, Silky Oak, Rosewood, Tasmanian
Oak, Queensland Maple and Fiddleback woods are all being
made into a number of elegant designs as clock cases. They
stand about 14 inches high and 12 inches wide. The move-
ments are good-grade and go eight days, and strike the hours on
a cathedral gong. They are guaranteed for 10 years, and we
are able to supply them from 40/- to 60/-, according to woods
and designs.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
Queensland Maple Striking
Clock, 14 inches high, £3.
cases in which boodling was suspected. This
as just one of those questions which cannot
he publicly answered, and it is mere tricki-
ness on Ashford’s part to pretend that in
the absence of specific allegations the
■general charge breaks down. The indisput-
able fact is that land resumption by the
■State is a boodling device from beginning to
■end, and has the enthusiastic support of
every monopolist in the country. Instead
of being a measure of reform it emphasises
every evil it was designed to counteract.
Resuming land at any time within the last
10 or 15 years in Australia has meant con-
verting boom values into public debt. To
do this now is to show either an outrageous
indifference to the public welfare or abysmal
ignorance of where to look for the margin
between sanity and madness. The only
Government that would do this thing is one
which gives greater consideration to boodling
operations than to anything else. It is
incapable of defence on any ground. It is
an offence against the State. It is robbery
of the people. And this paper never yet
heard of a general financial transaction
coming into that category of which the
details could be inspected without disin-
fectants, or, even if they then appeared
innocuous, were not vitiated by the
calamitous circumstances they were incu-
bated from. Ashford apparently thinks
that handing over public securities to
landowners helps to win the war. There
are not many other people who do not
know that it helps pile up a burden already
almost insupportable.
■+.
The Yell that Holds Progress Up at the
Last Trench.
On a superficial estimate, the victory of the
Win-the-War Phewsion at the Federal poll
would seem to suggest that the political ball
is at the feet of any party which can invent
a good gag and keep steadily yelling it in
the ears of electors for some weeks. With
a wholesome Australian programme of
reform in its pocket, the Labor party has
been turned down by the democracy; and
the mixed crowd, headed by the man with
the loudest yell and with no programme at
■all, gathers the shekels and such honors of
-office as maybe. The reason of Australia’s
defeat by the so-called imperialists, however,
goes a bit deeper than mere noise. The
Labor party, though Australian in sentiment
and in the main honest in its intentions, by
attempting to coerce the thought of the
people and to persecute adherents for their
genuinely-held opinions is for the moment
under a cloud of bitter distrust. True, the
machine of coercion was largely the manu-
facture of those who have recently been
kicked out of the party; but the' public
realises slowly and forgives slowly, and
Labor has hitherto only given the slightest
hint of contrition. The hint is contained
in Tudor’s revival of the plank in the party’s
platform which proposes to take the first
step towards the abolition of Party. The
matter was not pressed on public notice as
it should have been; but the germ is there
and out of it may grow the tall tree of Aus-
tralian liberty of thought. Labor, while its
opponents are blatherskiting about “winning
the war” and showing no means of doing so,
will have leisure to work towards a truly
national ideal. If Labor takes the wise course
and the winning course it will bring Refer-
endum with Initiative, coupled with Elective
Executive and Electoral reform, right into
the firing line. With the absolute freedom
of thought and action which these measures
would confer, Labor, apart from Party,
would win every time. Under the
new political system which these simple
reforms would introduce Phewsion could
not last for an hour; and no mere
Win-the-War gag could possiblv count.
Last week’s elections result may be of
great value. The Hughes-Cook’ combine
represents the last stage In the progress of
Party government. That it should have a
fair chance to prove its own futility may be
the best medicine for the Australian demo-
cracy. The Commonwealth is learning a
lesson; Labor as a detail is learning a
lesson; and if the Phewsion in office is the
price to be paid—well, we can’t expect an
advanced educational course in political
common-sense for nothing.
[To express the views of The Rulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kiriut and P. M. Wrioiit, 214 George
Street, Sydney.]
The Bountiful Murders of Providence.
Apparently the Rear is thinking about the
Fusion or something. Anyway, there are
circumstantial yarns about parades and com-
mittee meetings at the rear and a suspen-
sion _ of bash at the Front with nobody in
particular being in charge anywhere. All
of which sounds mighty like chaos. That the
situation is going to result in somebody get-
ting hit on a sore place seems certain, for
whether a separate peace were made or not
heavy defeat along the northern sector
would practically eliminate Russia from the
conflict. There are dozens of reasons whv
the German should hit our northern ally
with the heaviest blow he can deliver, and
there is nothing in the published accounts of
what is transpiring to suggest that Russia
may . not . reel back into confused anarchy,
lo imagine that hot-air about the retri-
bution. which overtook Czardom and the
assertion of democratic principles at Mos-
cow has been of assistance to the enemies of
Germany is merely silly. What has occurred,
and is happening now to Ivan are, so far
as this fight is concerned, about the very
last troubles the Allies could have wished
for. The snow will soon be off the ground,
and when that vanishes most of the gloom in
which the Eastern Front is shrouded will
disappear. What may be behind all this
darkness would not be the most pleasant
thing connected with the war to think about
if it. had any features that were other than
horrible. The character of the struggle
going on along the Western Front can hardly
be guessed a.t. The only certain thing about
it is. that, in that red hell human blood is
running like water; that the full story is
not being told because it cannot be. How
long the ghastly tragedy will continue —
where the end will be and when—no man
can tell. Our own lads have been heard
from, again going strong and bravely on.
Heaven only knows how many will be left
at the finish—-but it will be a restful
tnoment for their countrymen when the
Yank arrives to give Billjim a hand.
Likewise it will be a day for John Bull to
look round for any fatted calves there may
be left on the premises when Uncle Sam
puts, in an appearance with a reliable sub-
marine-catching apparatus. Just at present
an inventory of what may be in the pantry
next week makes no mention of fat calves.
Now that ex-Speaker Richard Denis
Meagher has been appointed to the Legisla-
tive Council The Bulletin expects that
before long he again will apply for admission
to the roll of solicitors, and it suspects
that in the light of “his services to the
nation,” say, on the conscription issue, the
Law Institute will forego its old opposition
and open the fold to the stray lamb.
No organisation has applied itself to the
job of looking after Billjim. with more
devotion, courage and well-ordered method
than the Y.M.C.A. If any reader of The
Bulletin wants details of what this selec-
tion of the alphabet has done he need only
ask any returned soldier or write to head-
quarters. In the meantime the Association
wants funds for its war work, and is now
appealing to the inhabitants of N.S.W. for
cash. It is a practical appeal for practical
purposes. This paper verv cordially com-
mends the Association’s efforts to the support
of every citizen, and will guarantee that
donations can be made with absolute confi-
dence in the integrity of the men who handle
the money and the completeness of the
machinery for carrying some of the comforts
of life to Billjim where he wants them most.
Sailed on his last voyage, from the Port
of Adelaide, at 77, Captain Glenn, master
of the Gulf and West Coast service. In the
days before steam he used to sail the ketch
Lillie Hawkins as far afield as Hobart and
Sydney. But his most dangerous experience
was in harbor, in 1892, when the Marine
Board found it had nearly 500 cases of
dynamite in its magazine damaged and liable
to blow Port Adelaide to Hades at any
moment. Glenn had the job of shipping this
out into deep water and getting rid of it.
He. retired from, the sea after just 50 years
of it, during which he had never lost a day’s
duty by illness.
Young McKinley, whose death at the
Front was reported the other day, is the
second of the Paunch McKinley nephews to
fall in the. war. There are still two on
active service. The lad \yho passed out
a fortnight back was thfe only son of
Henry McKinley, the tall, grey Melb. solici-
tor. He was a mere youngster, and had
been through the fighting from the
first day at Gallipoli. The last letter
his parents received from him urged them
to have no fear on his account, as he felt he
had a charmed life. He had just come out of
an engagement in which one of his sleeves
was shot to rags, the other was penetrated in
two places, and a bullet had gone through
his clothing, cutting his shirt, while his hel-
met was so flattened on His head that he
thought it was nailed on.
Montague Purcell, killed in action with
the A.I.F. lately, was born in barracks at
George’s Head, Sydney, where his father
was sergeant-major of the permanent detach-
ment of submarine miners. A brother is an
Australian bluejacket, and was one of the
crew of the Sydney when she finished the
Emden’s career. Two other brothers are
wearing khaki, one as a volunteer from the
Marshall Islands and the other as trump-
eter with Australian artillery in France.
[For any unsigned Plain English and other para-
graphs which require a signature under the Electoral
Act, S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George Street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The House that Jack Built’’
Palace “Turn to the Right”
Royal “Jinker”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
lloyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Wirths’ New Hippodrome YVirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long Letty”
Royal “Penelope”
Princess’s “The Bunyip”
Kino’s “Very Cood Eddie”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia . Moving Pictures
Miriam was a prostitute. She had grad-
uated in her profession in the usual way—
an easily-moulded girl—too easily moulded,
left with a baby, forced to make her living
in the only job open to her, her one way to
escape her environment closed by her “past,”
living from day to day, left in Monte Carlo
one morning with £2O (but not blaming the
man, since he had to go home to his wife),
finally plying her business in Piccadilly, and
doing fairly well, sometimes starving, some-
times in funds, but possessed of three un-
usual and useful attributes; striking beauty,
an engaging charm, and a sense of humor.
She knew her way about, all right. One
night she met Geoffrey and his two male
friends in his flat. Geoffrey was merely
going to the dogs with drink and drugs, since
his girl had chucked him for a millionaire.
He discovers in Miriam a useful antidote to
drugs; and, finding her a good sort, he
determines to give her a chance. He pro-
vides her with a flat, and visits that flat,
with the usual results. Miriam improves in
manners and appearance, and falls in love
with Geoffrey. But the man is still in love
with Valentine, now the wife of a titled
millionaire. He finds Miriam an ideal mis-
tress; yet is not such a fool as to marry her,
especially as he doesn’t love her. But the
girl yearns to marry him, though recognis-
ing that she has no claims upon him. The
usual rows follow. Geoffrey’s common-sense
tells him that marriage with a reformed
prostitute would mean only misery to her,
because this is England, and Geoffrey is a
gent. Then Valentine discovers that her
millionaire is a very attentive husband —too
attentive. She had married him at her
mother’s bidding, without any intimate idea
BERT BAILEY.
of wliat marriage might be like. She clears
out, and goes to cuddle Geoffrey again.
Geoffrey wants her to run off with him to
Buenos Ayres (places like Buenos Ayres
are put on the map for the sole purpose of
helping English dramatists out of diffi-
culties), but Valentine, who is a decent sort,
wakes up to her duty to her husband, and
Geoffrey, feeling lonely, makes the same offer
to Miriam. Still in love with Valentine, he
sees no reason why he shouldn’t make the
best of what is left, and he even offers to
marry the girl. But now she knows better:
her education is complete; she loves him, but
knows that marriage would mean only
misery to them both. So she goes with him
to Buenos Ayres—as his mistress.
* * * •
This is the interesting slice of life that
was served up for the first time on the Aus-
tralian stage at the Criterion on Saturday.
Coming after the cloying sentimentality of
the impossible “Daddy Long Legs,” Hubert
Henry Davies’ “Outcast” is like a breath of
keen, fresh air. The age-old problem of the
prostitute is treated with a common-sense
and a directness and a truth and a freedom
from the least suspicion of sentimentality
that are seldom to be found in the' plays
from our latest Ally. There is not one
false touch or trace of exaggeration through-
out this intensely realistic drama. And it is
an inexpressible relief once again to hear
the English language on an Australian stage.
The small talk is natural and unstrained;
the rows are just rows, without any trace of
a “curtain”; they end without a climax,
with both parties endeavoring to recover
their poise; throughout the dialogue there
is thought and a grace of diction,
and nobody attempts to be smart or
to play little theatric tricks that will
raise a laugh. The man and his friends
are simple, ordinary chaps that we are
pleased to meet, and the prostitute has all
the experience of the ordinary Flossie and
wears no halo on her gorgeous hair. Any-
how, that hair needs no halo.
Charles Waldron proves himself, now that
he has a chance, a thoroughly convincing
actor, equal in his interpretation of the
character of the man to Ivathlene Mac Do-
nnell’s remarkably convincing portrayal of the
prostitute. And that should be sufficient
praise for Charles Waldron. With Louise
Kimball and Lewis Willoughby, put
thoroughly at their ease in natural parts, we
have a trio of altogether charming fellows.
Beryl Bryant, as Valentine, has a most diffi-
cult thing to do, to make the other woman a
human being worthy of sympathy; for the
audience, fresh from plays of the oozily-senti-
mental type of “Daddy Long Legs,” persists
in regarding the love-affair between her and
Geoffrey as mere make-believe, whereas it
remains the only mutual love-affair in the
drama. Beryl Bryant succeeds in ultimately
convincing that hostile audience. As for
Kathlene McDonnell, all this paper can say
of her is that she is the realest, the most
attractive, and the most eerily beautiful of
all the trades-women it has ever met. In
“Outcast” she proves herself one of the most
thoroughly-equipped actresses we have seen
on the Australian stage, to -which she adds a
personal charm and the conquering triumph
of youth. “Outcast” is announced for only
a brief season.
* # t- *
Recruits are recommended to listen to
“The Story of the Rosary” at the Grand
Opera House (Sydney). Nothing that they
may experience on the fields of France will
be as awful as the horrors of the warfare in
this alleged military drama. And they will
pick up quite a lot of useful information re-
garding military discipline, methods of de-
fence and the manners and customs of
officers’ messes (meaning tucker, of course).
$ H*
The demise of “ Jinker,” at the Royal, has
been unavoidably postponed till Saturday.
“The House that Jack Built” continues to
go up regularly at 7.45 every evening, and
at 1,50 every Saturday and Wednesday
afternoon. The Easter Cow that came to
town with her has long since settled down
in the home paddock, but the Principal Boy
remains triumphantly at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney.
* * sj£ : i:
The Wirths are finishing up their season
at the New Hippodrome, and the managerial
advertisement is doing its best to raise a
panic about it. But the elephant who plays
the mouth-organ betrays no nervousness,
and the flying lioness doesn’t linger in mid-
air to do a thoughtful scratch when going-
through the blazing hoop. A benefit per-
formance for the Ist and 3rd Battalions
Comforts Funds and the R.S.A. is to happen
this (Thursday) afternoon.
The Follies are now mixing all their most
successful drinks in a farewell week at Syd-
ney Tivoli. Little Billy Rego, who was
trodden on by a restive piano, has hobbled
back on to the bill, but isn’t doing any acro-
batic work. One of the cheeriest items is
the burlesque by the small convalescent,
helped by Cannot and Welch. Basso Mal-
colm McEachern and Gwen Lewis provide
valuable artistic support; but Gwen’s musi-
cal version of “Ginger Mick” is too stagey
and feminine. Mick isn’t a good subject for
lady performers. Nellie Stewart has been
engaged to start a Nell Gwynne farewell
presently.
>;.*
183 Pitt-street is the address of a new
show club in Sydney—the Lounge Club. No
need to be a highbrow nor even an
actor to be a member. On Tuesday
the little venture was publicly christened
and cheered on its way by the Dean
of Sydney. There was some good music,
followed by a charming dance by a
miniature Genee, little Marjorie Wiggs from
the upper layer of Maoriland, who is helping
the Williamson management, every night
and at matinges, too, "to make the' “House
That Jack Built” such a bewitching edifice.


rtygyjhkjh
3 O
FINEST DRY GIN
&. old tom
*
%
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
The Old Reliable.
Red. Star
WHISKY
Daniu
SccraiWHiSKf
Quality always the same.
Estp 1850 •
For Winter Wear Outdoors
—an excellent Station, or general Country-service
Boot, with full-cut watertight tongues and heavy
leather soles, so rigidly rolled that moisture does
not penetrate. Leather lining throughout. Pull-
on strap at back is of leather and sewn into back
of boot. This boot gives very long service under
the roughest conditions.
Tan Chrome Calf or Black Box Calf,... 27/6
We Pay Postage.
Please state size and fitting.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 St 311 George St., Sydney
rtygyjhkjh
Sydney movie features this week
Lyceum: Australian Enid Bennett’s second appear-
ance on the screen in “The Princess of the Dark,” a
drama of shattered illusions.
Hoyt’s: A Metro, five-acter, “The Barricade,” a
wild gamble in love and stocks; and Irish actor
Tom Terris in an outburst of stage patriotism, “My
Country First.”
Crystal Palace: A splendid dramatisation of
Kobt. W. Chambers’s war romance, “The Girl
Philippa.”
Last Saturday’s advertisement announced
the last 10 nights of the Marie Tempest
season at Melbourne Royal, therefore “Pene-
lope” should see it to a fairly crowded end.
The comedy of W. S. Maughan has wit and
humor in the dialogue, and strength in its
situations. The characters, conventional or
otherwise, are convincing, and a couple of
incidental visitors to the doctor’s consulting-
room are screamingly funny exaggerations.
Also, the company, with the exception of
Graham Browne, is better-fitted in this
comedy than in “Marriage of Kitty,” which
it resembles as far as the adventuress
(Gwen Burroughs) is concerned. Gregan
McMahon and Sidney Stirling have capital
character-parts, as the uncle and father of
the distressed heroine who is keeping a stiff
upper lip and trying to console herself with
new hats, and frocks. Marie Tempest, han-
dicapped by a bad cold, made a very inter-
esting person of the doctor’s wife, but some-
how the magnetic attraction that ought to
be there must have been partly lost on the
voyage from Europe, or whichever was the
last place the distinguished lady came from.
Her art is very charming, but not bewitch-
ing. One is not haunted by memories of any
particular moments of “Penelope,” but there
is always an impression that the best scenes
between Miss Tempest and Graham Browne
would be more effective in a smaller theatre,
and a feeling that Stirling’s part would be
great in the hands of a gifted “old man”
character-actor.
Some changes in the appearance of “Very
Good Eddie,” at Melbourne King’s, were
necessitated last week by the lamentable
mishap to Lupino on the previous Saturday.
In the first place the temporary retirement
of the dancing comedian brought his under-
study, Leslie Donnagliey, into the name
part, and the foolish character of the little
man in a brown hat which had previously
been Donnagliey’s job was kindly omitted.
The show seemed brighter for the absence
of the wandering interloper in the brown
hat, whilst the man in Lupino’s place did
everything his original had done, bar the
acrobatic dance. Donnaghey, one-time of
Pollard’s Juveniles, is considerably smaller
than Lupino, though not so boyish-looking.
He made a more grotesque creature of
Eddie, and his smallness proved to be the
essence of the artless Yankee joke. The
humor in the story is mainly physical. The
contrast between Mr. and Mrs. Kettle must
be the reverse of the contrast between the
other honeymoon couple. If Mr. Darling
and Mrs. Kettle were each seven feet high
the situation would be screamingly funny in
its rudimentary way. So the non-imported
“VERY GOOD EDDIE” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Andrew Higginson
as Dick, feeling
happy.
Emily Fitzroy as
Mrs. Kettle, rather
upset.
Donnaghey got along joyously on his natural
sense of absurdity and his striking lack of
inches. He might have been less imitative
with even better results. In other respects
the show was as before, and the music of the
two principal numbers continued to suggest
a couple of melodious hymn tunes served
with coon sauce.
«$ * *
At Melb. Majesty’s they are shifting
“Canary Cottage” on Saturday to make way
for some more “So-Long, Letty.” The
tragedy of “The Three Twins” is understood
to be in rehearsal, but a revival of “Letty”
is one of those things which may go on
indefinitely, anyhow.
Ada Reeve has tightened her grip of Mel-
bourne’s good opinion by adding a tabloid
tragedy to her big share of the bill at the
Tivoli. “Half an Hour,” by J. M. Barrie,
is a condensed variation of the old story of
the smart woman whose sneering cad of a
husband taunts her into an intention to
elope with the other fellow, this prospective
co-respondent being all that a lady could
desire under the scandalous circs. But when
she is about to start for Egypt from the
man’s rooms he rushes out to get a cab and
is killed by a motor-car, whereupon the doc-
tor advises her to escape from her awkward
predicament. So she returns home, where a
small dinner-party awaits her, and the doc.
aforesaid is one of the guests. Also hubby’s
suspicions are presently aroused. Never-
theless the heroine’s powers of dissimula-
tion are equal to the awful strain, and she
goes triumphantly off to dinner on the
solemn medical person’s arm. Ada Reeve is
not quite an Ethel Irving in such an exact-
ing part, but she is more than effective
enough, and the support scores a highly-
respectable average. Blakiston, Talleur
Andrews, and Ashton Jarry figure in the
support, the latter presenting a forcible type
of luridly-offensive husband. The odd point
about these tragical stage marriages is that
whereas the ill-used wife is invariably sup-
posed to have the best of the brains she
never knows how to make her husband
reasonably unpleasant. In the next part of
the programme Ada Reeve sings a large
assortment of songs in sundry tones, rang-
ing from homely delf to finest Dresden china,
and her only trouble is to get away when
she has had about an hour of it. Louis
Nikola is doing some new tricks, which he
calls illusions, and would be justified in
describing as miracles. Also, Jacobs, the
giddy young man in charge of the orchestra,
delivers patter ditties with the same in-
gratiating smile as before.
'!• v v
“The Bunyip” panto, at Melb. Princess’s,
is going on until the 25th for certain. The
kids of the city have claimed it for their
own, and the much-interrupted conflict
between Fairy Wattleblossom and the Bush
Gnome bloke continues to be a very profit-
able proposition at popular rates.
There is no shortage of sugar at Hoyt’s
Theatres, Melbourne, this week. The film-
fancier will find large quantities of the sub-
stance in “The Promise,” a five-act Metro
specialty wherein Harold Lockwood battles
against a formidable opposition of dirty lefts
and parental curses to reach the expectant
arms of beauteous May Allison. Crane Wil-
bur is responsible for the heart-throbs in the
other Hoyt narrative, “Wasted Years,”
which alleges that Bohemia is adjacent to
Bedlam when a bloque goes thoroughly gay.
* * *
Douglas Fairbanks, the restless Triangle
comedian, is chasing a girl in “The Matri-
rnaniac” at Melbourne Majestic this week,
and is tumbling over the usual tribe of
obstacles in his rush for his objective. The
film runs to five acts of violent energy, but
a practised lunatic like Fairbanks can easily
do the distance. Dorothy Dalton spreads
herself in the Triangle-Ince drama, “The
Female of the Species.” Dorothy is described
as a lady of “daring unconventionality,” and
wears frocks to prove it.
** * *
A notable show was a performance of “As
You Like It” at Adelaide Queen’s Hall, with-
out a man in it, in aid of the Red Cross
funds. The caste had been long and carefully
coached, even to bringing in the expert
Shorthose to advise on the wrestling-match.
The Society crowd that turned up to scoff
at the sight of its younger female members
in unusual guise got a pleasant surprise, for
the acting was unexpectedly good. Touch-
stone scored heavily, Celia made her part
stand out, Orlando and Rosalind and Jaques
were sound, and the rest, even to the fem-
inine Charles-the-wrestler, played up man-
fully ; and, strange to say, the voice of the
prompter was not heard. James Anderson,
the coach, had done wonders with the girls,
most of whom were without any previous ex-
perience of the stage.
Only two Gents. One in the Ma State
were seniors of G. T. Chambers, who died
at Maitland the other day. Those two are
both country practitioners—George David-
son, of Mudgee, and Augustus Betts, of
Goulburn.
Jawbone Webster has issued an illustrated
address to his constituents declaring that,
during his reign at the G.P.0., the Gwydir
electorate has been “transformed in its
post offices and telegraph and telephone ser-
vices as a result of his efforts, and holds
premier position of distant country electo-
rates throughout Australia.” If this means
anything it means that Webster has used the
country’s money to bestow special postal
and telegraph facilities on his own electo-
rate, and in return for this favoritism he
craves continued support. There is, of
course, no suggestion of bribery. It is
merely Webster’s way of winning the war.
At time of writing a German named
von Rinterlen is being tried in New
York on the charge that he, being a pro-
pagandist with German money to burn, did
endeavor to stop the supply of munitions
and otherwise upset policies favorable to the
Allies. The country where this man operated
was neutral during most of the time that
he was spending the dollars, if not all of
the time, but the American Government is
calling him to account and is making no
mystery about it. That German spies and
agents of the von Rinterlen class were, and
are, to be found in this country is a common-
sense supposition. Have there been any
public trials of suspected persons? Is the
personal sentiment of the Government, or
its lack of secret service, accountable for
the suspects’ immunity from prosecution?
The question is asked by every thinking
citizen. One of the stock excuses of the
slackers is that they will not enlist whilst
dangerous aliens hold billets where they
have the chance to be mischievous, or whilst
anti-war propogandists, whose propaganda
is obviously pro-German in the face of the
present war map, are talking at large.
These scandals have brought Phewsions’
Win-the-War cry into intelligent contempt,
but if anything was ever said about them
during the blessed election campaign the
Censor must have kept it out of print.
f Edmund Fisheh, 369 Collins Street, Melbourne.]
PENELOPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Penelope, a doctor’s spouse, loved hubby very dearly,
Whilst he unto his marriage vows was not so true,
or nearly;
But, victim to a wanton whim,
A smart grass-widow captured him.
Oh, she was tall and she was sliml
They kept the matter dark, or dim,
But Wifey saw it clearly.
The rhymster, needing easy scope,
Prefers to call her Penny-lope.
She called her Mother to her aid and asked for her
advising,
Her Uncle and her lawyer staid were kind and
sympathising,
And, best of all, her ancient Dad
Reviewed the situation sad
And bade his daughter not be mad,
But treat her hubby’s latest fad
As something not surprising.
“Be patient, child, and give him rope,”
Said Dad to pining Penny-lope.
“You flattered your tin household god; you openly
adored him;
You danced attendance on his nod—in point of fact
you bored him,
And now, to win your lawful mate,
Don’t whimper and bemoan your fate,
Or ask him where he stopped out late;
But let him crave your kiss—and wait
Awhile ere you reward him.”
“Thus will I with the temptress cope,”
Quoth patient little Penny-lope.
For weeks the slim grass-w'idow smiled and simply
went on grazing,
Whilst Wifey played the artless child, no row or
rumpus raising.
Poor Hubby, at her call and beck,
Found Beauty’s halter round his neck.
She called upon him for a cheque,
And passion’s craft became a wreck—■
Which was not so surprising;
Then finally he cut the rope,
And turned again to Penny-lope.
But when he learned that Wifey wise had curbed
her agitations,
And gammoned to believe his lies and clumsy fabri-
cations,
Whilst smiling at each vain pretence,
His indignation was intense;
He railed against her “moral sense.”
Still Wifey kept him in suspense
lie marital relations,
And day by day he got his dope
Of cool neglect from Penny-lope.
It serves its purpose—on the stage, where dramatist
romancer
Can make the Missus sweetly sage, and quite a
killing-glancer;
But oftentimes in real life
The trouble leads to bitter strife,
Philander, lacking timely knife
To cut his rope, deserts his wife.
Her tactics didn’t answer.
To stop him slipping down the slope
Philander needs a Penny-lope.
VICTORIA.
O. K.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: One of the Marie Tempest pufflets
alleges that when the unreticent lady pro-
duced ‘‘Penelope” in America some of the local
members of the co. persisted in calling the
word Penny-lope. At first the ear-shocked
Marie felt that she must scream or assault
these awful people, but afterwards the
annoyance subsided into a source of amuse-
ment, and she forgave them their ignorance.
The idea that they may have intended the
Penny-lope pronunciation for satire doesn’t
seem to have occurred to Marie Tempest
“Stargazer” : We have a clutch of picture-
film censors here in Melbourne now, chosen,
apparently, because of their aloofness from
mere drab humanity, and now that they are
in action picture-theatre patrons would like
to know what they are doing, and to hear
their reasons for permitting a few film
dramas now in operation to continue off the
chain, There is one continuous frenzy, for
instance, called “Peg o’ the Ring,” which
for rampant and frenzied folly beats any-
thing I have efer seen on earth or dreamt
of elsewhere, and my experience of shows
dates back to Richardsonian booths at old-
fashioned fairs. The old Richardsonian melo-
dra'ina, with its buck-toothed, broad-belted
pirates, and its virtuous village milkmaids,
was a model of intellectual propriety and
ethical repose compared with “Peg o’ the
Ring,” which is sheer madness from post to
finish. I am assuming that the duty of the
censors is to safeguard the picture-patron’s
commonsense, while keeping his moral pinny
clean. A series of debased episodes like the
dramatic kidney fits dished up by the perpe-
trators of “Peg” is far more dangerous to
the large callow section of picture-theatre
frequenters than any loose or lewd five-reel
flight I have yet seen. Three doses of it are
sufficient to leave a youngster’s mind in a
putrid condition, and I doubt if the more
stupid kind of small boy who is allowed to
see it out will be able to think lucidly again
in 10 years. The censorship that permits
this rubbish to stalk at large has already
published its own utter condemnation.
“Snell”: “0.K.” in claiming that the
mannerisms of an actor are not more con-
spicuous or more to be condemned than those
of the ordinary citizen who displays per-
sistent peculiarities even in the way be lights
his pipe, is blinding himself to the nature of
the actor’s art, it seems to me. In claiming
that marked mannerisms are merely an evi-
dence of strong individuality he may be per-
fectly correct, but the inoffensive, suburban
citizen is not called upon to subordinate him-
self and his special peculiarities to the de-
mands of an exacting art. The actor is in
that place in which it is demanded of him
that lie sink his aggressive mannerisms in
order to bring home to us with tolling P>rcc
the mannerisms and special qualities'of the
character he is attempting to portray. I
contend that an actor is a bad actor to the
extent that his own pronounced peculiarities
are stamped upon the numerous personalities
of the play to whom he has introduced us,
whether the actor be Gaston Mervale,
George Titheradge or Gus Franks.
Just established in Australia a branch of
the British Ideal Film Co. —a star-gemmed
organisation that should make the Yank
firms nervous about their hold on the Aus-
tralian movie business. Starting about five
years ago in London, the Ideal Co. went
after the leaders of the English stage and
got them. Amongst their players are George
Alexander, Henry Ainley, Albert Chevalier,
•Tames Welch, Ellen Terry, the Tree lady,
George Robey and John Hare. The opening
pictures to be reeled off in Australia are
“The Yicar of Wakefield.” “The Second Mrs.
Tanqueray,” “Lady Windermere’s Fan,”
“The New ‘Chum” and “Her Greatest Per-
formance.”
(Continued, on page 26.)
THE EFFIGY ACTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sought a brief engagement there,
And told the city swell
Such minor parts as they could spare
Would suit him very well,
But truth to tell he meant to go
To London in a year or so.
This place would never more than give
A pro. the chance to merely live.
Just clap him into anything.
He’d fit the part. In fact
He had a notion he could sing;
He knew that he could act.
“What have you done?” The tone was rude.
He-struck a splendid attitude.
“Shaw, Sliakspeare, Romeo, Melnotte,
Macbeth, and things I’ve quite forgot.”
They put him on. He was a treat.
No worse had trod a stage!
He fell across the hero’s feet,
And bit him in his rage.
“Come off,” the great man yelled, “and go !
Where was it you played Romeo?”
“At Swithin’s Waxworks.” Then, with pride,
“It ran two hundred nights!” he cried.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


LADIES! DON’T LOOK OLD.
There is no need for it.
Johh stjwngiWnt[Rs
Lakshmi
SKIN LOTION
SKHS,*'SKKHBf
rtygyjhkjh
ohn
rtygyjhkjh
trange
w
inter’s
LAKSHMI SKIN
CREAM & LOTION
wi!l preserve you.
Our other Toilet Preparations, viz.: Powders (3
tints) New Pace Cream (2 colors), Dental Cream,
Hair Food (oily and non-ojly), Shaving' Sticks,
Perspiration Powder and Creme Marquise
Were Awarded Six Gold Medals—London, Paris, Rome.
Obtainable at Horderns’, Washington H. Soul’s,
Farmer’s, David Jones’, MrCaihie’s, Dassetter’s,
W. T. Waters’, The Civil Service, McDowell and
Hughes’, etc.
4 51 rattfeHS
' ukshui
SKIN CREAI?
Send 2d. stamp
Winter (London,
for sample of Soap, or Powder, or Dental
Paris, Borne). Sydney Office, 82 Depot. 20
Cream, to John Strange
Jamieson Street, Sydney.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
l slier, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
KEEPING HIS HAND IN.
FIRST OLD FELLOW: “That’s the worst of
Dr. Brown, when he’s not playing the
piano, he’s ‘harping on the internal
organs’!”
Australian soldiers have' fought like men
and died the death of men. In tight places
and hours of unexpected, sudden peril they
have stood the test. But if the Australian
soldier has a sense of duty he also has a
sense of humor, and this is being put to
a severe strain. Wherefore it seems about
time that the Censor or someone came to
Biiljinvs rescue and modified some of the
adulatory mixtures he is being sprinkled
with. It is making Billjim very tired this
stuff, for there are other soldiers in this
fight, and the Australian has seen them.
Having seen them, he reads about himself
being a hero and various brands of super-
man with a great weariness, often with a
hot face. Some of the official messages about
the Australian stir him to fury, though per-
haps an exception ought to be made of the
yarn about the sinking of the Ballarat, which
drew u moving picture of Billjim maintaining
the tradition of the Birkenhead playing two-
up, This was calculated to make Billjim
suspect that a humorist was pulling his leg.
The story of the Commonwealth troops' valor
will not suffer if someone or other could
manage to draw it a bit mild and cease from
irritating the men it refers to.
* * * *
“O.lv.’s” idea of kings and coronets: —
H. G. Wells, having candidly referred to the
“great volume of Republican feeling that has always
existed in the British community,” is now trying to
persuade himself that practical encouragement of the
Republican movement in Central Europe “need not
conflict with loyalty to the Throne” in England.
But “loyalty to the Throne” means loyalty to the
wholly un-Republican idea that the mummery which
doth hedge a king is worth preserving for senti-
reasons. A monarch without mummery is
not worth considering. But a limited monarchy
without a titled aristocracy and a House of Lords is
well worth thinking about. Take away ail the
coronets, but leave the Crown. There’s a King of
Heaven. People sing of Him in church. There’s no
duke, marquis, earl or K.C.M.G. of Heaven; but
religion demands a king.
“Fitzshrapnel”: One of the advantages of
serving under a real Australian O.C. is that
you have a friend who will tear down
stupid red-tape entanglements to get you
reasonable comforts. One good Australian
in charge of a camp for wounded Anzacs
found that, /while his own men were bedded
on two planks and a straw tick, the Huns
in a neighboring internment camp were repos-
ing disgracefully on modern iron beds, with
wire springs and decent mattresses. An
Imperial officer would have hesitated, but
the Australian charged straight at the Home
Office and pretty soon—well, the wounded
Anzacs had the best beds.
“The Old Soldier” : Apropos British army
decorations and the allegation of “Bio” (B.
20/4/’l7) that there are too many of them.
After the Crimea a C.O. of a rifle battalion
who fought there was asked to recommend
men for the V.C. (then just instituted). He
sent in a complete list of the rank and file,
expressing the opinion that they all deserved
the medal and that he could not single out
one man more worthy than another. He
was right, too.
“Petifi”: Just
after the recent
Sydney Show, at
which a “bushrang-
ing” exhibition was
one of the “educa-
tional” features, I
suggested to The
Bulletin the possi-
bility of some im-
pressionable Aus-
tralian youth being
impelled thereby to
do some shooting on
his own account.
Well, he has done it.
At Port Ivembla a
servant-girl found a
revolver under a
local youth’s pillow.
A bit later a younger
brother of the youth
accidentally and
fatally shot himself
with the superfluous
weapon. Investiga-
tion showed that a
lot of the boys
of the town, after
seeing the foolish-
ness in Sydney, had
been observed gal-
loping about the bush
on horseback, play-
ing “B o b b i e s and
Bushrangers” with
loaded revolvers.
Thirteen “guns”
were confiscated in
no time as soon as
the fatality brought
the real Bobbies into the gum*. ±.
one feature, anyhow, that should be missing
from the next Show programme.
“Rio”: In the “Nineteenth Century and
After” for February C. G. Wade has an
article on the Australian Conscription Refer-
endum, written last November. In it he
says :
Nine morths of the war had elapsed before a
single Australian was killed in action.
So it took N. S. Wales’s Agent-General just
two years to forget all about the officers and
men killed at Rabaul and the three sailors
who their lives in the Sydney-Emden
scrap! Yet I’ll lose a bet if he didn’t make
many a speech assuring soldiers that their
deeds would never be forgotten. One would
have thought that a North Sydney man, a
footballer and a ’Varsity graduate would
have remembered Brian Pockley a little
longer.
* * * *
Bondi (Sydney) scores the prize horror
of the week. There was a “carnival,” and
one of the amusements was a shute into the
sea. Two youngsters took a turn. The
first was impaled on a splinter, about
an inch in diameter, which went right
through the boy’s abdomen and projected a
couple of feet behind. The poor lad re-
mained affixed to the terrible thing until some
strong hands broke the wood. The other boy
was bored at the buttock, and a doctor later
on extracted I Sin. of firewood from his body.
WHAT’S HE THERE FOR?
MISS: “Do you favor women proposing?”
MRS .: “Certainly not. When a woman
picks out a man she should make him
propose.”
Concerning a more or less ornamental job:
The office of Lieutenant-Governor of N. S. Wales
has been variously filled. In the old days, the
N. S. Wales Corps Commandants took the chair in
the absence of his Ex. During Governor Bligh's
suspension, Johnston, Foveaux and Pat*son, all of
the “Rum Corps,” acted. Other lieutenants
came in with Major-General Stewart, 3rd Buffs, who,
in 1825, “acted” for 12 days and pardoned a number
of men left for death by Governor Brisbane. When
the Imperial soldiery left Australia the Supreme Court
got a show, Chief Justice Alfred Stephen being the
first to administer. James Martin succeeded Stephen
as C.J., and while Governor Robinson was annexing
Fiji-—he was six weeks absent —his Honor claimed
to act, but Henry Parkes refused to bring into
activity the dormant commission. An unseemly
■ squabble ensued, undignified on both sides, soiled
linen was hung out, with the upshot that Alfred
Stephen was appointed to the job for life. He
signed the register four times. On his resignation,
through old age, C.J. Darley succeeded, and after
him W. P. Cullen, now holding the office. Cullen
will reside at Government House, as Darley did for
a while; none of the others occupied the place.
*** * *
From Flanders: Jim, transport driver,
famous even in the metal polish and
bath-brick cursed Army Service for the
brilliancy of his steelwork, arrived back at
his lines after the nignt’s work at Dead Dog
and other salubrious spots. Around his head
dispersing the mists of morning flickered an
aureole of Australian curses. “What’s
crawlin’ on yer, cobQer?” asked a sympa-
thetic friend. “Drove through a belt of that
blanky .gas !” stormed Jim. “ ’Ard luck !
Did they get you or the ’orses?” “Ob, blarst
me an’ the ’orses— look at me blanky steel-
work /”
* * * *
Judge Docker (75), lately sentencing a
Sydney woman who had been convicted of
getting money by false pretences, heaved a
curse at the tote:—
It seemed to him that when the gambling spirit
got held of a woman it was evil for her as the
drink habit, and he expected now that the Govern-
ment had legalised gambling, and was about to take
a part of the proceeds, he would find many more
women in trouble because of its influence.
But why? Is lovely woman likely to
become a more frequent gambler because she
is able to gamble with the honest tote instead
of with the more-or-less honest Moses?
Anyhow, by gambling with the honest tote
—which will pay her a fair div. —she will be
less likely to appear before Judge Docker for
dishonesty, because she will be less likely to
go broke.
“Lip”: That Brother Billjim who told
The Bulletin some time back that the Tom-
mies’ boots aren’t in it with our own Austra-
lian issue must have written from
Horseferry road. Grudgingly though I admit
it, it is the other way about. The heads
evidently admit it, too, for the latest of our
divisions to arrive in France came shod with
Tommy boots,
their own issue
having been taken
from them before
they left Eng-
land. The Aus-
tralian boot ap-
pears to have
been b'u ill for
Egypt and sand,
and the French
paved roads play
the devil with
them. Those of
us who arrived
with the first lot
saved our Aus-
tralian boots by
immediately copy-
ing the Tommy
issue and getting
iron heel and toe
plates and studs
put on—at our
own expense. An-
other grouch we
have is about
our great-coat.
Many a time I’ve
done a perish in
one even in
Egypt; yet we
are expected to
stick it in the
same old coat
over here, where
it’s 20 degrees
below freezing
point, and the
snow that fell
three weeks ago is
still lying around
half a foot deep.
Hundreds of us
keep decently
warm in bor-
rowed (or otherwise) Tommy coats now.
We are all proud of our Australian clothes
and reckon there are none like ’em—in a
proper white man’s climate. For this sod-
den wilderness you need the heavy clothes
made by people who know the horrors of
winter.
A countrywoman of the lady’s in protest:
Professor Scott, of Melbourne, sacrificed historical
truth for the smart sentence when he said of
Catherine the Great of Russia—“ She had. the heart
of a fish and the morals of a suburban catl” (B.
19/4/’l7). Apart from mere material reforms
Catherine realised the higher needs of her people.
She did everything possible to attract great literary
men from all parts of Europe to her court, and in
1755 she founded the first Imperial Russian theatre.
Incidentally she was an author, and wrote several
plays. In its grasp of life and knowledge of human
nature her letter to her grandson, as a guide for his
conduct, is a masterpiece. Her most passionate love
was given to her country. As to her other loves—
well, she was abnormal in intellect and character,
so, like most abnormalities, artistic and otherwise,
she cannot logically be measured by the common foot-
rule. But measure her how you will, the fish-cat
valuation is strained and false.
WHO, INDEED?
SHE : "I can’t understand why more of you
young parsons don’t go to the war.”
HE: “Yes, my dealt! But who is to stay
behind to guard our flock from the
black sheep?”
DOING HER BIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a madame stout and stern,
With eyes that seemed to fairly burn,
A nose that lift to sniff the air
As though it scented treason there;
And, as the tram went on to town,
She eyed the stranger tall and brown
And thus reproachfully began:
“Why aren’t you at the Front, young man,
Where thousands of our boys have bled ?”
“Well, I ” the young man said.
“Why not she urged. “Your country calls.
Racecourses, movies, music-halls—
These are the things that keep you back,
Although our noble heroes lack
The help of strapping youths like you.
There is the Empiah’s work to do;
You should enlist at once—to-night—
And help Australia’s men to fight!”
The young man blushed a rich, warm red:
“W’y, well, y’know”—he said. •
“Excuses will not help you. No!”
She snorted. “Do not argue. Go!
Our splendid men demand your aid.
Yet you hang back —are you afraid?
The young man grinned a painful grin,
And fidgeted, and rubbed his chin.
“W’y, missus!” he protested, while
His grin became a cynic smile
As he hopped off, and straightway fled,
“W’y, I, I’ve been 1” he said.
VICTORIA.
O. L.


>!
a pair of real
Gabardine Riding'
Trousers for 25/-
TO ORDER
a
THERE is no cloth better suited than REAL
Gabardine for Riding Pants.
The wear is there without undue weight,
whilst the texture is fine, allowing the garments
to make up and to look well.
This is an exceptional off a- to secure the
real Gabardine at a price considerably lower
than it can ever be offered at again 25!"
SHADES : GREEN. GREY. FAWN & CREAM
SEND FOR FREE PATTERNS TO-DAY.
PIKE BROTHERS L
IMITED,
r Brisbane.
MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN £LL
LOVE CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, in-
digestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.” For
the cause of all this distress lies in a torpid
liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you are
drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely as
a robust man. It is a most harmless, effec-
tive stomach, liver and bowel regulator and
tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes. Is. lid. and Is. 9d. pr;
All Australia’s battlers are not at the
Front. There’s James Bond!, miner, of
Cobar (N.S.W.), for instance. The other
day he fell 180 ft. from the top of a shaft
and when liis mates went to collect the pieces
he casually entertained them with an account
of his journey. Items: fractures of the right
and left thighs, right kneecap, right ankle,
left leg, both collarbones, both arms (in
several places), etc. After a bit of tinker-
ing up lie travelled all the way to Sydney
without threatening to write a letter to
the Railway Commissioners about the jolt-
ing of the train.
“Queenslander” from France:—
Notes re life in trenches in Bulletin of 30th
November, 1916, are very true. Rats are in swarms
and little can be done to get rid of them. We
have had some snow, and the footprints on the
surface give' some idea of the size and number of
the pest. Parcels from Australia containing food-
stuffs should always be sent in tin boxes, as when
a quantity is received at night they have to remain
undelivered for some hours and Johnny Rat has a
real blow-out. When we’re able to have a blow-
out ourselves the beer is light, cheap and good, but
I cannot give much of a character to the wine.
English papers are procurable in billets a day after
date of issue, and The Times is in demand. Rations
are plentiful and of excellent quality. Our Aus-
tralians are standing the extreme cold well and the
general health of the troops is good. Girl is almost
an unknown quantity and what there is of her is
not of the kind we expected from the advertisements.
Australia’s good-lookers are absent.
GOING THE RACE.
MOLLY : “I hear you have a spanking outfit
for your Easter holiday trip. Where
are you going?”
DOLLY : “Notchere. I spent all my money
on my outfit.”
“Copabella”: John Hop is a versatile
bloque. The other day frenzied wails from
the police office led me in to investigate what
unfortunate was getting the third degree.
Inside I found a fatherly senior-constable
vainly trying to pacify a tiny stray with
helmet and handcuffs for toys, while the
youngster from the depths of the sergeant’s
chair called high Heaven to witness his
intolerable wrongs. “What we want in this
office,”. said the perspiring sergeant, “is a
good picture-book!” He was serious, too;
he had been through the trouble before. It
is indeed a serious thing in an • efficiency-
loving department that the omission of this
necessary requisite hasn’t been rectified long
ago, because there are times when even a
watehhouse-keeper is too busy to play “boo !”
or “ring-a-rosy” with stray toddlers, especi-
ally when a real “crook” might be lugged
any moment.
ANOTHER HUN OUTRAGE.
“Bill's got the spike with you proper. Why
didn’t you cable him that tenner?”
”I did cable it! One o’ them submarines
must have got it.”
“M. 8.”: What’s wrong with leaving the
age limit out of consideration in enlisting
men willing to go to the Front? The mark
has been raised to allow men of over 45
to get to where the iron compliments are
being swapped. But. why 45, or 55, or 65?
There are men in the far back as good at
70 as ever they were, and they were good
goods always. When I was in the Far
North, old Ned Simmons was colt-breaking
wherever there were horses to be broken.
He was 70 then, and he was not the only
horseman in the North whose face-weed was
very white. I’d enlist any man between 17
and 70 who wanted to fight or to help the
fighters aud who could answer medical tests.
“E.8.L.”: Every weary step our soldiers
take puts more money into the pockets of
greedy war profiters. I have a wrapper
off a packet of wool, which wool I have been
buying at Is. Id. a packet (two to each pair
of socks). I believe that a couple of months
ago it was sold at ,B4d. per packet. On
Saturday week I got enough for a pair of
socks at 2s. 2d- But the other day the same
quantity was 2s. 8d. —a rise of 6d. in a
week. And here is the plain track of the
bushrangers. During the week of the rise
various Australian papers had made special
mention of the fact that 100,000 pairs of
socks were needed by the end of May. You
will notice that the wool is an Australian
make. The firm may have a good excuse
for their extraordinary inci’eases. If they
have, it would be as well for them to adver-
tise it promptly, as I am only one of many
wondering what brand of patriotism theirs is.
This is the sort of thing that helps to Win
the War.
“Snell”: Here is a nice little item con-
cerning a gifted spruicker who was employed
by the teetotal organisations in one Aus-
tralian metropolis to go out and boost the
cause of prohibition. He boosted all right,
but in a fortnight's time the leaders of the
cold-water cause felt themselves called upon
to admonish the eloquent one for his own
somewhat notorious friendship for the
bottle. “Look here,” was the reply; “keep
me or leave me. I simply can’t preach pro-
hibition till I’m three-parts tanked!”
• « « •
“A.E.L.” holds an inspection:—
When word was brought along' by the train orderly
that Brigadier-General Blazes was coming over to
inspect us, camp was cleaned up, teeth were cleaned,
everybody had a shave and a brush-up, and a work-
ing party scrubbed the skyline. At the appointed
hour the drivers were all strung out in line, each
dangling a pair of shining bits that had been polished
and cursed over, and an orderly sergeant was posted
to signal the coming of the person responsible for
all the fuss. ‘Presently he whizzed over the hill
in a motor-car flying the usual red flag, and sur-
rounded by his red-tabbed staff. We saw him
scramble out of the car trying to look like a wooden
Indian as he walked rapidly past, followed by his
Man Friday. Within five minutes he was back in
his motor, his staff packed round him. When he
was well away after lunch the orderly passed the
word that he was a d(ned fine fellow.
“Hussar”: Re saluting (B. 19/4/T7).
According to customs and regulations of the
British Army, if any number of officers are
saluted by one or more men, the senior
officer only acknow-
ledges the salute. It
is not the uniform the
soldier salutes; it is
the King’s commission.
The courtesy may
seem irksome to some,
but they cannot be of
much value as soldiers
if a small thing like
that disturbs their
equilibrium. All sol-
diering is based on dis-
cipline, and a good
man never shrinks
from it or cavils at it.
Some Australian sol-
diers are, however,
tricked into giving
needless salutes in a
curious way. The
Commonwealth drill
instructors wear a
commissioned officer’s
Sam Browne belt. In
Queen-street, Bris-
bane, yesterday, I saw
a returned wounded
soldier salute one of
these non-coms., who
gravely returned ’the
courtesy, instead of
explaining that he was
entitled to none. On
the other hand, at a
corner I saw four new
soldiers utterly ignore
a returned wounded
officer, a man of at least 35 or 40, with two
African medals aud a Military Cross.
“O’Phimerty” : Two old Hobart pubs are
about to go dry. One of them, the All
Nations, in Collins-street, was the Speck's
first post-office. When the P.O. was moved
to its present site, the old building was
enlarged and turned into a drinkery. Now
it is to be pulled down to allow the Commer-
cial Bank of Tas. to build something impres-
sive. The Alabama, in Liverpool-street, is,
it is said, to be changed into a rag ware-
house. This place was built on the plan of
the old London coffee houses, and until quite
recently it was possible to see the queer, box-
like compartments into which the customers
retired to drink their ale like Englishmen.
“Splinters” gives the home-people a look-
in :
First you hear the boom of Fritz’s gun, then the
whine of the shells coining over; then —bang! A
head-splitting crash that ties your inside in a knot
and makes you feel like throwing yourself down on
your face and crying. They are so cruel, these shells;
The splinters lying about speak for themselves. About
here there are tons of them. The one I hold nearly
covers the palm of my hand, with an edge sharp
as a razor. The top is bent over into a hook, its
jagged edge with teeth like a saw, weighs nearly
a pound. A piece from the shrieking parcel would
perhaps tear off a leg. I have seen some ghastly
examples of mutilation by shell fire, and have come
to imagine every iron splinter a living devil that
at the moment of its body’s bursting starts out in
search of live flesh, with the venomous intention
of inflicting as wicked a wound as possible.
Up in wood there’s a young tree with what
looks like a rough iron spike sticking out of its
battered trunk a few feet from the ground. It
isn’t a spike, but a shell splinter, driven so hard
into the trunk as to be immovable.
If you happen to be in the vicinity of a shell-
burst, and a splinter lobs your way, don’t try pick-
ing it up, give it time to cool; and while it is
cooling beat to a healthier atmosphere, for Fritz
is sure to put another over, and j'ou might get the
whole show.
“Lucky I didn’t get a crack with that,” you
think. “But,” you think again, and you think for
a long while. “Suppose I did get a crack with it.
Suppose I got a ‘blighty’ out of it. Just a nice
little blighty, no bones smashed, no limb chopped
off. Not a wound like that chap down the road,
who writhed in the mud with his breast slashed
open, while the horse he had been riding lay
spattered. No; but one just good enough to have
me sent to Blighty, and a short spell of comfort. To
sleep between white sheets. To be waited on, and,
above all, to be clean 1 No reveilles, no parades.
Then, convalescence, discharge from hospital, and 14
days’ furlough. Fourteen glorious dais, free l
Whiz-z-z-z, duck, duck down for your life—Bang!”
There are remarkable Victorian honor-
ariums who have apparently a sort or ouo-
dued sympathy for the ways of the Hun.
Recently two of them considered the case of
William Cairns, 36, who had recklessly
thrown a “sprat” off the Port Melbourne
pier and then invited a toddler of five to dive
for it. As the water was 18ft. below, and
there was only 3ft. of it, the infant declined,
whereupon William pushed him in. As
another little lad, but a year or two older,
happened to be handy, the compulsory diver
wasn’t drowned, so the astute beaks reckoned
it worth a whole £1 —15s. for the shock,
4s. 6d. for the wetting and 6d. for the lost
sprat.
INTRODUCING A STRANGER.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER: “Now that you've mentioned the word, my dear, what is a
wowser?"
TILLY: “ Please, teacher, a young man who takes you for a walk and"
S.S. TEACHER: “ Well?”
TILLY: “And keeps on walking!”
TO THE GLORY OF SPRING!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In violet time,
Let’s ring a chime,
Of joy upon the bells of folly.
Let's make a rhyme
hi violet time;
Who cares a jot for melancholy?
Primroses climb
With sweet wild thyme
About the ribs of Winter’s brolly.
Eacli forest mime
Trolls jocund rhyme,
In chuckling notes so fat and jolly.
In violet time
’Tis no great crime
To change old loves for new ones, Molly.
X.s.w.
NORA McAULIFFE.


A CREDITOR CALLS.
THE KID: "Now, then, come out and win the war!”


pdisoN
■ gas
N sftUfci» 0 F
iNtiN Combatant
V (v’erv Common)
STJB MARINE. FOR
SINKING EVERYTHING
( HOS,PITAI. SHIPS PR6FERED)
X A * ... ~il •, 11. 11l Mir
PROSPECTUS
or Corpse
factory
JUST OMT
mti s
y
1 “Sgr-Sa™* ww^*
REVOLVER
WE KILLED
nurse.
CAVU-L
WITH
1 CLUB frOR j
pNISHIN®
OFF THE-^||
woyN©efi||
(useful AL||g
IN DEALlh^j
wth Aceii
. CIVILIAN;®
•7 -X*.
' BOMB FORs»Hlr§|
DROPPING
ON UNiDEFENDEOj#!
TOWN S |
'Tor CR% AT MORAI4I
effect on v/omeSl
AND CHILDREN.
THE PUZZLED SQUARE-HEAD.
“What! Not love Germany? After we’ve enriched civilisation with all these new and beautiful ideas?”


rtygyjhkjh
rThe Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Cws.itry, Englaid.
Agents:
B’nnettSßarkd!
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
<Sk
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
rtygyjhkjh
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying,~a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
's.-Caring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
/
OOSO>
Goldfinder ooap
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE &SYhNEY
[If any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SMLBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
- and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRING
“SCRATCHET" PARKER, Melbourne’s
Prolific Pamphleteer.
ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
“Chevron”: The best shot in his battalion,
Percy Black, who rose from private to major,
and could write his name with machine-gun
bullets on a practice target, has fired his last,
round. Killed in action in France. He en-
listed from the Yilgarn goldfields (W.A.)
in the war’s first month, and was
at Gallipoli with the 16 th Battalion
from the Lauding to the Evacuation. A
D.C.M. and mention in despatches. In
France he won the D.S.O. for leading his
company across No Man’s Land under fii-e
and capturing an enemy’s strong point. He
also gained the French Croix de Guerre and
the Medaille Militaire. In one action he
was wounded in shoulder and neck by a
bomb, but rejoined within a month. This
was his first absence from his battalion.
Black, who was 39 years of age, had been
recommended for a lieutenant-colonelcy, and
was the champion rifle, revolver and
machine-gun shot of the Sixteenth.
Arthur Adams salutes his brothers: —
Harrimac, Billjim’s brother from Maoriland, now
present in bulk in Sydney streets, reveals himself
as a distinct racial type. The bloke who wears
the peak of his hat on top, in order to distinguish
himself from Billjim, not in disdain but in a proper
patriotic pride, is less of a lissom streak of careless
slenderness and more of a nugget than Billjim. His
ruddy- and placid face, his closely-knit frame, with
its suspicion, doubtless unwarranted, of fat, and his
sturdy but somewhat brief legs and thighs show
what one century of the boisterous, liquid, temperate
climate of the windy isles can do for a race.
Harrimac has remained closer to his British stock,
though he betrays the better food and the better
life that have been his since his birth. Billjim has
sprouted more. Harrimac remains phlegmatic and
English; Billjim is casual and already half-Latin.
Harrimac will make the ideal infantry plugger, the
thoroughbred ; Billjim is the ideal mounted infantry,
rather like a racehorse himself, with more nerves
than are good for him. But why does Harrimac
spoil his uniform by wearing black boots? Our
flappers don’t really care for those boots. By the
way, in this welcome consignment the proportion of
conscripts is very small. On their first day in
camp they demanded butter. Most of them grow
butter, and they look as if they liked it.
The size of the colony of Australian
artists in London is appai-ent from the num-
ber of Australian pictures to be seen at the
present Royal Academy. Streeton, Long-
staff, Burgess (the painter of the Australian
Fleet entering Sydney Harbor in the N. S.
Wales Gallery), Power (whose big painting
of the Australian Light Horse adorns the
same place), Quinn (who has fine portraits
there, too), Coates (who holds a travelling
scholarship), Birley, Webb Gilbert, the Mel-
bourne cook who first sculped pastry but
rose by the art in him to bigger things in
marble, Miss Evan Benson, from Westralia,
and Harold Parker, another sculptor who
learned his trade in Brisbane —this is an
array of names that shows that Australia is
there. There are others missing: Lambert,
who may, of course, disdain the R.A., Tom
Roberts, who is perhaps too busy as a hospi-
tal orderly, Mackennal, the sculptor, Fred
Leist, Will Dyson, who is painting official
pictures at the Front—and official pictures
by this caricaturist should have at least an
historical and humorous value —and Bunny,
who is too far away in Paris to bother with
English art.
Walter C. Hawkins, who died at Black-
town (N.S.W.) last month in the 95th lap,
was the first Anglican priest to pass a plate
on the Manning River (N.S.W.) away back
in 1860, when he had to pull up and down
the river per boat to round up his parish-
ioners. He continued to expound the Word
in various parts of the Ma State till 1911,
and was one of the last Anglican priests to
draw a regular Government pension, dating
from the days of “State aid” to religion,
which was abolished in 1863.
“Chevron” : Two light-horsemen who will
never meet again on the field are the Thros-
sell brothers —Lieut. Hugo, V.C., and his
younger brother Eric, a second-lieutenant,
who received his commission in Hugo’s
battalion on September 8 last. > They met
each other on a battlefield in Eastern Egypt
only a few days before the action in which
Eric was killed and Hugo was seriously
wounded: The elder brother won the V.C.
with the 10th Light Horse in the three-
weeks’ vigil after the disastrous charge on
Russell’s Top, Gallipoli. The occasion was
a furious bomb-fight in a trench which was
the key to Hill 60. Of Throssell’s com-
panions, Corporal Ferrier had his arm blown
to bits, Corporal McNee won the D.C.M.,
and Trooper Renton, who lost a leg, also
gained a D.C.M.
“Catchline”: Starting in life as a London
coster and ending as a property-owner
worth £5OOO, old “Apple Jack,” of Williams-
town (Vic.), has died at the age of 84. The
ancient was John G. Pennell, who began to
accumulate his fortune at the age of 10,
hiding on a cellar rafter the tips he got fox-
holding horses and running errands. Weary-
ing of his job as a bricklayer’s ’prentice, he
joined a man-o’-war, left it to marry and
emigrate, and landed with a wife and fully
Is. 6d. in Adelaide. Moving on to Melbourne,
the couple lived on the Yarra Bank, and sold
fruit to incoming boats, went to the diggings,
without luck, and held a stall at Paddy s
Market by day and a barrow outside the old
Queen’s Theatre by night. At Williams-
town he was chimney-sweep, bellman and
fruit-hawker, and he introduced the great
British pastime of Aunt Sally at local fetes.
Most of his money goes to his nephew, a lad
of 14.
“Veritas” from Palm Isle: —
A recent visitor to Norfolk Island gives some
wrong impressions of the late Mrs. Fletcher Nobbs,
better known here as “Aunt Susan” or “Grandma.
She was a very intelligent and popular woman, and
it was her strong personality which made her famous
and respected. She was not at all keen to have
tourists call upon her, as stated, but if they did
visit her home most of them were welcome. She
was most kind and hospitable. Far from meddling
in “matrimonial matters,” she never bothered about
them, 'except where her own children were con-
cerned.
Passed out in Texas (U.S.A.), aged 76,
James McClenahan, who for 25 years sailed
the waves of George’s river (N.S.W.) as
master of the steam ferry-punt at Tom
Ugly’s Point. McClenahan drove a railw:xy
engine between Waterford and Limerick in
his native Ireland before coming to Aus-
tralia in 1881. He settled in the U.S.A.
after retiring from the bridge five years ago.
“N. or M.” : My remembrance of the late
missionary Brown dates back a number of
years to a Science Congress held in Hobart,
when he and his friend and brother-mis-
sionary, the genial Lorimer Fison, author
of “Tales of Old Fiji,” addressed one another
and —incidentally—the rest of an interested
audience, on Island Customs. I remember
Fison leaning back, appreciation in his eye
and a red handkerchief on his bald head,
shaking that old bald head dubiously over
some point. “Never mind shaking your
head,” said Brown, stopping in his discourse,
“we’ll break a lance over that afterwards.”
One of his out-of-the-way experiences was
his discovery of a new-born island, while it
was still boiling, and its re-discovery 20
years later, when the disintegrating effect of
weather, the accretions of sea-drift and the
THE BRUTE!
PAINTER: “ She’s got a hit of a reputation,
I believe.”
CRITIC: “What, Maisie! Nonsense, man;
she's -not half as had as she's painted.”
droppings of seabirds had formed a skin
of soil on the warm volcanic pumice. Cocoa-
nut palms, from nuts by the sea, had
sprung up, and the place was a riot of tropi-
cal growth. Fison corroborated this wonder
story, which had elsewhere been received
with some doubt, and remarked that when
he saw fellows who had never been away
from their mothers doubting the statements
of a man like his old friend, it made him
wish that he was a layman, so that he might
cuss.
“Jobber’ raises some doubts: —
M’s.P. fighting for their country ? Certainly!
There’s one running awful risks as a warrant-officer
at Horseferry-road, London; powder all round him—
pearl powder. Pay? Somewhere about 14s. a day,
plus a living allowance and Parliamentary screw.
Name, of course, censored in order to Win
the War.
Another patriot has been discovered.
Harry J. Weston, the artist, has sent his
only father, Henry, to make munitions in
England. Harry says he only wishes he
was old enough to go himself.
Margaret Catchpole has again been resur-
rected. this time in learned Boston, U.S.,
where she formed the subject of a lecture
by Professor F. J. F. Jackson at the Lowell
Institute. Jackson gave all the facts, fancies
and romance their full space, and wound
W. A. WOODS,
ex-Speaker of the
Speck.
up by saying that
he had had the
hardihood to sub-
mit his researches
to the Council of
the Senate of the
University of Cam-
bridge (England),
under the title of
“St. Luke as a
Modern Author.”
In America, he
says, it has been
suggested by many
theological profes-
sors that Margaret
has a bearing on
the question of
the composition of
the Acts of the
Apostles, illustrat-
ing the use of illi-
terate materials for
literary purposes.
These pundits
amuse themselves
in strange ways.
Though the influence of his youthful
environment was too strong for him and he
returned to a drapery counter in the end,
there was much of the spirit of A. H.
Adams’s “Grocer Greatheart” in the compo-
sition of Jimmy Levens, the Father of the
Collingwood (Yic.) Bench, who has just
surrendered to his bail at the age of 89.
At 14 he draped at Leamington, Warwick-
shire, where Louis Napoleon, two years
afterwards Emperor of the French, would
allow none other to serve him. Later
Levens, lured by the call of the diggings,
sold out and reached Australia. He was
something of a sportsman as well as a
haberdasher. On one hunting trip in the
country he met two young men who greatly
helped him in securing game. They turned
out to be Ned and Dan Kelly.
The cable mentions the death of John
Lang, in Scotland. He was the brother of
Andrew, the writer, and came to Australia
in ’75. After a failure as a Riverina pastor-
alist he j'oined the National Bank, and was
manager at Traralgon and Maffra (vie.).
Next he took the Melbourne Club secretary-
ship, but it did not suit his health. There-
after during a number of years he was a
Corowa vigneron. But that wasn’t a success
either, so he got back to Scotland. In Aus-
tralia he had been an enthusiastic member
of the Victorian Light Horse, under Tom
Price, and a keen rifle shot. When war
broke out he offered his services as instruc-
tor a dozen times before they would over-
look his age—6s. But once in, he worked
like three young men, so they made him
A.Q.M.G.
Commander L. S. Bracegirdle, D. 5.0., who
organised and took away the siege train in
May, 1915, is back in Melbourne, his useful
unit having been absorbed in other forma-
tions. This was the dependable push which
at Suvla Bay built a pier in 20 minutes
under hot fire, and on another occasion
erected a structure 420 ft. long in defiance of
a stream of Turkish shell. The siege train
did noble work for the Anzacs on the Suez
Canal, making dozens of bridges and saving
hundreds of lives. Its own casualty-list was
heavy, and it could not fire a shot in reply.
Bracegirdle was a middy in the Australian
Naval Brigade, and went to China to inter-
fere in the Boxer riots. “A kind of a giddy
harumfrodite, soldier and sailor, too,” he was
with the South African Irregular Horse in
the Boer War, and it was for his services in
the present disturbance that he gained the
D.S.O. He returned in charge of a hospital
ship.
Lieut. George Clune, who lately returned
from France, helped to hunt the Hun out
of the Pacific islands, and was invalided
home to Australia suffering from malaria.
He volunteered again for service, but was
rejected. Then he tried Canada, and, being-
turned down, went to the U.S., where he
was snapped up by the American Ambulance
Corps, which was then packing its bag for
France. He won his commission at Paris
Headquarters, and was afterwards with his
Corps at Verdun. This Chine’s uncle is
the Archbishop of Perth, senior R.C. Chap-
lain ; and there are other Clunes spotted all
over the army.
MY PLEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Listen to me for a moment, because
I’m the largest of Noises that ever was,
The prophet of bounce and the priest of bunce,
The greatest and littlest all at once!
There is never a rdle that I am not It,
Never a space that I could not fit.
To the wildest windings of Circumstance
I’m equal (with help) if I’m given a chance.
Suffragists, soldiers, flag-waggers all,
Many may trip, but I shall not fall;
Therefore I conjure you, beg and implore—
Ask what you like, only—
Give me the floor!
Surely in vain, for my sleek little head,
Spies out the net of the keen fowler spread I
Out of the thrall of the tiniest mesh
I flutter with ease, and I twitter afresh.
Sometimes Tm silent, but never for long,
For my neck is as tough as my gamut of song.
You may grab me and hold me, beak down, in the
dust,
But you can’t keep me silent; I’ll sing if I bust!
Oh, I don’t care a what the music’s about
As long as I’m sure that the sound’s coming out,
While I warble, and wobble, and warble some
more—-
Brothers, I’m proud of Me —
Give me the floor 1
Alp of prolixity’s uppermost range,
Character-artist and captain of Change
(Whether the change be in millions, or small,
Brothers, shall trouble me nothing at all!)
Peer with the parvenus, bloke with the crowd ;
Call me these things and you’re doing me proud !
Show me the penalty following fault,
I’ll show you my latest, most intricate volte;
Mention proceedings that savor of smell,
I’ll brand you as spawn of the sweepings of —well,
Somewhere in Germany. Waver no more,
Crown me prize showman, and—
Give me the floor !
Whisper it low, while these bourgeois slay
Each other with guns, in an out-of-date way,
It conies to me here that I never, before
Have stated my method of Winning-the-War 1
I evolved it in bed one dark night (I repeat
These others keep most of their brains in their feet)
And perhaps you’ll perceive, when I’m through
with my say,
That riddles are weevined, and censors passe—
But we’ll win in a canter, if only we chalk
This on our pediments, “Mighty is talk!”
And my larynx is rich, though my principle’s poor,
So allons ! To victory !
Give me the floor !!
VICTORIA.
“BASH.”


7HUSTRAL” OVER-
A COATS have for so
long figured in Men’s
minds as the basis of com-
parison— —the comparison of
value for price, of quality of fabric
and finish and, of styles
that to-day the name brand
Austral on an Overgar-
ment of any kind is an
immediately acceptable
warranty of its superiority.
Our showing of the New Season’s
Styles in Men’s Overcoats and
Rain-proofed Garments, is but added
evidence of this leadership in the
outfitting of men, and maintains the
character and quality of “Austral”
clothing for men as in former years.
'‘Austral” Overcoats Ready-to-wear—
-35/-, 42-/, 45/-, 55/-, 63/-, 70/-, ’
75/-, 84/-, 90/-, 95/-, 100/-, 115/-
“Austral” Raincoats Ready-to-wear—
-55/-, 63/-, 70/-, 75/-, 84/-, 90/-,
95/-, 100/-, 105/-, 110/-, 115/-, 126'-
Country Customers send for Art Catalogue.
We send it free to any address on request.
Carriage is Paid on all Country Orders.
Ell
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484-490 George Street,
3-17 Royal Arcade, and
304 George Street (near Hunter St.),
SYDNEY.
m
a^swgjgfjs
ags
ress
'
Sifes
I !3l I
: S£I?HKS:I:
&S&P-* •*•■»-••-
£i >
.Vi
Stwife
:;aSfev Mi
JE
i:
■TS
i*.;:v
W‘Ci
lllfe
• rrcT.rx-K ; -
3§fet£-; '
r-ss.'
-iff
sa
!s'3£2!
ij <-; < 'v* • • •»-r *
i&iigg
ve~
»'.:3
■ jsg
0- "
BiS'iiS
'■ ■§-' i3J~
:Jr BjT
Jr. jW
ma
xtsMMMgi* l '.: HJ&T..
% /
«B
iftt
g-:fer^a«»aaf
S§]^
Ijljgjfel
«i
!3iis!Rr.%~?.tV
iifa
B*f=‘
sr-
•>. "*‘^£gS
k tts
M£=
rIS
JW
000;'
Jg&3so
slffsPSi
}~JX£ o'~ ;.',* ;s=.iir!<
y / B*
'J
•jyv'3g*
fc*
US
are
;jw
§«
li i
® rf
• *■• r»
*»r
■fmm j
*r
*3&&&k - -
:-rfW-> :
:*-.
gj -.T:
P
I
■ <§;v-
-f > a*
VOjg-'SF'.?}
ysZ.
.yfj
:&rg r :&
dKT^ip-tT
.-Sr-
;V «
?vf ?


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (Hish grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonne
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE— Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Feb., ’O9. .135,502 14 p.c. = 105,000 10,000 1,308,000
Aug.,’o9. .135,873 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,328,879
Feb.,’lo. .130,049 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,349,928
Aug.,’lo. .141,454 14 „ ~105,000 15,000 1,371,382
Feb.,’ll. .135,807 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,392,189
Aug.,’ll. .135,321 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,412,610
Feb., *l2. .145,257 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,442,767
Aug.,’l2. .155,582 14 ~,, 105,000 1,493,349
Feb.,’l3. .155,654 14 ~,,105,000 1,544,003
Aug.,’l3. .135,424 14 ~,,105,000 1,574,427
Premiums on new shares, 0400,000 1,974.427
Feb., ’l4. .171,083 14 p.c.= 140,000 2,005,510
Aug.,’l4. .165,950 14 ~,,140,000 2,031,460
Feb.,’ls. .139,050 14 ~,,140,000 2,030,510
Aug., *l5. .140,018 14 ~,, 140,000 2,030,528
Feb.,’l6. .140,846 14 ~,,140,000 2,031,374
Aug.,’l6. .140,484 14 ~,,140,000 2,031,858
There are shops that put as much as they
can in the window, and there arc shops that
put frost-on the glass, merely writing up their
name, and thus saying in effect to the world
what our friends the French say: “Good
wine—no sign.” And there are the two sorts
of bank, too. There are those that pile up
their figures, keeping, for instance, then-
premises in the balance-sheet at somewhere
near cost, and there are others which, fol-
lowing the example of the Bank of England,
write down premises account to nothing or
thereabouts. The Union Bank is one of
those that frost the window. For the past
half-year it publicly puts by only £484. In
effect, it says: “You know our policy. We
don’t, disclose surplus profits unless we are
sure they are profits—and we can’t be sure
of anything just now. So, if you don’t mind,
we’ll put something in the drawer for the
time being.” The chairman described it in
the way chairmen have a habit of doing:
“As regards the bank’s investments, I need
only say that the directors have made very
full provision not only for any depreciation
shown on cash prices of to-day, but even for
a further possible drop in values.”
In the circumstances, then, it isn’t much
use taking any notice of this bank’s figures
for a single half-year. Sweep in the whole
table, and you get a fair idea. But even the
table, covering seven or eight years, doesn’t
tell you that in its nearly 80 years the Union
has never missed a dividend. The manage-
ment, however, hasn’t got that fact posted up
on the back of its mind. What it prefers to
remember, even though it may not be very
fond of talking about it, is that, after the
boom of the late ’Bo’s and early ’9o’s, the
dividend got down to 5 p.c. When that
shuddersome 5 p.c. is remembered somebody
in command always snips off a bit of the
profit of a good deal and hides it away some-
where. As for the depositor, the facts that
concern him are that the bank owes
£24,457,869. Liquid and semi-liquid assets
(including the public securities which have
been written down below present market
values) total £9,443,091. That leaves
£15,014,778 of debt to stand against
£19,186,636 of advances and other assets at
their book values. And in some cases those
book values are absurdly small—as, for in-
stance, “Bank premises in Australia and
Maoriland, £378,600.” The position is, there-
fore, one on which the depositor can turn
over and comfortably go to sleep. And it is
the best thing in the world for a bank’s bor-
rowing customer when the depositor can do
that: it’s when the lender is nervous that
the borrower may look out for trouble.
* * * *
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat,
Vic.) :
Written Added
Off Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
June, 1909. .£4103 7 p.c.=£2975 £5OO £623 £75,667
Dec., 1909.. 4160 7J „ „ 3187 973 76,640
June, 1910.. 4204 74 „ ~ 3187 1017 77,657
Dec., 1910.. 4176 7* „ ~ 3187 989 78,646
June, 1911. 4276 74 „ ~ 3187 1089 79,735
Dec., 1911.. 4356 74 „ „ 3187 1169 .80,904
June, 1912.. 4395 74 „ ~3187 1208 82,112
Dec., 1912.. 4481 8 „ ~ 3400 1081 83,193
June, 1913.. 4449 8 „ ~3400 1049 84,242
Dec., 1913.. 4480 8 „ ~3400 1080 85,322
June, 1914.. 4514 8 „ ~3400 1114 86,436
Dec., 1914.. 4534 8 „ ~ 3400 1134 87,570
•Tune, 1915. . 4566 8 „ „ 3400 1166 88,736
Dec., 1915. . 4581 9 ~,,3825 756 89.492
June 1Q16.. 4611 9 „ „ 3«‘>s 786 90.2-8
Dec.,’ 1916.. 4633 9 „ ~3825 808 91,086
Australia hasn’t caught on to Uncle Sam’s
plan of little local banks. There are only
two banks in the Commonwealth with head
offices outside a State capital. The National
of Tasmania is one; the Ballarat is the
other. And of those two the latter is the
only one to stick to the American plan of
having no branches. It is interesting to get
the more or less disinterested American’s
view of the two banking systems after he has
had a fair experience of our own. Generally
he admits that our erratic seasons would
make the path of a local bank thorny in most
parts of Australia. The advantage of an in-
stitution which spreads itself over the coun-
try is that, if it can’t get money in in one
part, it can generally get it in somewhere
else; and it can call in quite a lot in the
aggregate without producing any alarm. But
the American insists upon the tremendous
value of a local bank in booming a district;
and he insists also upon the tremendous
value of booming a district if you want to
attract population. His theory is that in
attracting population the draper shows the
way; lie doesn’t advertise in general terms
about his establishment, but hits you in the
eye with praise of one line to-day and of
another line to-morrow. In this work the
Yankee local bank is a great help, Whereas
the Australian bank, with widely-scattered
interests, is not concerned about booming
any part.
The Ballarat Bank has had bad luck in
one way—its “stand” is in a mining field
which has gradually dwindled. But there is
fine country round about; and, though the
bank doesn’t make much headway, it more
than holds its own. Deposits and all other
debts amount to only £228,103, which is very
little more than its own capital and reserves
combined. With so little of the public’s
money to work on, large profits couldn’t be
expected. The 9 p.c. dividend means less
than 4£ p.c. on capital and reserves com-
bined ; and there is certainly nothing very
alluring about that—nothing to make any-
body else want to rush off and establish local
banks in other places. The American may
stick to his local bank as a matter of princi-
ple, and thus make a success of it. It is
pretty clear that the Australian doesn’t.. And
perhaps the American wouldn’t either if he
had the choice between a local bank which
he didn’t know and a national bank with
which he had had dealings in the place that
he formerly lived in.
# • * *
The New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., which is in the
pastoral-finance and agency business in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland :
Full Paid on
Interest Account
on Ist and Interest Divi-
Gross 2ndDeben-on3rdDe- dend Re-
Juno, Profits, turesPaid, bentures. (5 p.c.). serves.
1908 \ £157,703 £98,953 £ 17,259) f6(429 £400,195
j Surpluses on sales, £50,000 /
1909.. 177,747 98,953 17,259 6,370 455,360
(7p.c.) (74p.c.)
1910.. 180,885 98,953 26,848 10,147 500,297
mu / Surpluses on sales, £50,000 I Ifl , 910993
1911 1 195,947 98,953 26.847 f blU ’“ y °
mm/ Surpluses on sales, £50,000) 10 720372
1912 \ 196,030 98,953 26,847 /
Cash dividends to shareholders and bonus
to 3rd debenture holders, £454,536 .. 265,836
Exes, of reconstruction, including discounts
on new debentures, underwriting, etc.,
£84,452 .. .. .. .. ... 181,384
Profits .on liquidation of N.Z. Land Associa-
tion, £75,866 .. •• •• •• 257,250
Dividends.
. —,
5 p.c. Written
Profits, nrefs. Ordinarv. Off.
1913.. £109,915 £23,336 5 p.c. £20,000£291.111
1914.. 139,553 49,460 5 ~ „ 4L716 339,488
Further profits on liquidation of "N.Z. Land)
Association .. .. ..£166,5/1 , 446,194
Written off premises and stores.. 59,8651
1915.. 136,3«7 49,46 J 5 p.c. = 41,716 491,400
Further profits N.Z. Land Association
liquidation .. • • • • £6,353 I 561 405
Profit on realisation of old Co. s assets 84,180 j
Written off premises and stores.. 20,533 J „
1916.. 137,131 49,460 6 p.c. = 50,059 10,000 589,017
The profit for the past year is a bit better
than for the previous year, notwithstanding
that £72.025 is charged for taxes, as against
£35,754 in the 12 months to the end of
June, 1915. Ten years ago the total charge
was £7986. Of the past year’s £72,025 no
less than £38,889 is paid in Britain; this
includes the excess profits duty—the bit
which the nation gets back out of war
profits. Some of the old shareholders must
rub their eyes when they see these figures.
Twenty years ago it did not look as though
the co. could ever get out of the soup, and
it only did it by throwing overboard a lot
of capital and writing down foreclosed
securities to correspond. Some of what
happened subsequently the table shows;
when assets were sold they realised far in
excess of written-down values, and part
of the capital was restored. At the same
time the assets of the N.Z. Land Association,
which this co. wholly owned, were sold ; and
there have been splendid additions to profits
from that source. But. they are at an end
now: the £6353 which dropned in last year
was a final payment by the liquidator.
Practically the co. has now ceased to be
a station-owner. The next table shows how
the sales have proceeded during the last 10
years, and what has been done with the
money:—
Liabilities.
1906. 1915. 1916.
Debentures .. . .£3,296,345 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Other debts . . 646,235 376,065 586,786
ASSETS.
Liquid assets .. 671,542 930,033 1,037,237
Land Association . . 552,658 —■
Co. s debentures . . 438,969 300,000 300,000
Advances . . . . 1,931,323 2,945,02.. 3,181,119
Properties, stock, etc. 202,307 49,272 3L9^O
Premises . . ■ • 307,990 330,000 290,882
Other assets. . . ■ 136,793 203,102 204,054
The share capital is £1,823,514. The 10
years have seen remarkable changes: over
a million and a quarter paid off the deben-
ture debt, partly, however, by conversion,
and nearly half a million added to the
liquid assets. But meantime a further
£1,249,796 has gone out in advances of one
kind and another, carrying the total up to
£3,181,119. There are risks in that busi-
ness, of course. But all the conditions have
been favoring the co. Big prices have cer-
tainly been paid for back-country and Maori-
land properties; but such big profits have
been made, too, that advances have been
pulled down hand over fist. There will be
a turn in the tide, and the last man in may
be carried out of his depth. It is, of course,
the business of a co. like this to back every-
body but this last man; how far it will
succeed only time can tell. In any case, its
financial arrangements are now such that it
can afford to nurse any securities that it
has the bad luck to have to take over; for
all its debentures are fixed, and the. only
floating debt is £586,786, against which it
has £1.037.237 of liquid assets, £376,820
advanced on wool and produce on hand and
afloat, £204,053 of merchandise and £761,394
of current account advances. Risks are
therefore small nowadays compared with
the funds at the co.’s disposal and taking
the nature of the business into account;
and that the profits are. so great must be
due largely to fine commission earnings, the
result, to a great extent, of the abnormal
prices for all kinds of pastoral produce.
* * * *
The City and Suburban Building
Society (Brisbane) : —-
Added
Dividends and Written to Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1904. .£4547 4p.c. = £3159 £1,353 £35 £13,451
1905.. 4381 4 „ „ 3185 10,380 4,267
1906.. 4142 4 „ „ 3190 463 489 4,756
1907.. 4201 4 „ „ 3196 594 411 5,167
1908.. 4388 4 „ „ 3184 718 486 5,653
1909.. 4552 4 „ „ 3173 421 958 6,611
1910.. 5068 44 „ „ 3376 1,280 412 7,023
1911.. 5329 4|„ „ 3801 347 1181 8,204
1912.. 5792 5 „ „ 4023 517 1252 9,456
1913.. 6362 5 „ „ 4021 1,208 1133 10,589
1914.. 6458 6 „ „ 4767 1691 12,280
1915.. 0330 5 „ „ 3791 2539 14,819
1916.. 6008 6 „ „ 4503 1505 16,324
1917.. 6165 6 ~ „ 4506 - 1659 17,983
There are three pairs of eyes to look at a
concern of this kind: (1) the depositor’s,
(2) the shareholder's, (3) the borrower’s.
The co. owes in all £94,352. Deduct £15,516
of liquid assets remaining after the current
dividend is provided for, and you get
£78,836 of net debt. Against this there are
advances of £166,245 (book value) and
£7062 of property and sundries. That
looks most substantial security for deposi-
tors ; and no doubt it is what it looks. There
may be a few lame ducks among the assets;
but judging by the interest earnings
(£12,723) there are not many birds in the
flock that don’t lay. The co. has been •‘going-
slow” during the last three years (advances
have decreased in that time from £172,150
to £100,245). Assuming that the manage-
ment knows its business —and it ought to
by this time —this means that, whereas old
loans have been reduced to safe limits, new
loans have been made on a very conserva-
tive valuation of securities. So the depo-
sitor need not worry; and when the
depositor doesn’t worry, the borrower isn’t
likely to be worried either, so long as he
does a fair thing. As for shareholders, they
must expect to find business slack for some
time to come; but there is no visible reason
why they should be hit through having large
quantities of depreciated securities thrown
on their hands. If they are it will be
through bad management; for there has
been plenty of time to put the house in
order. And it seems to have been done.
* * * *
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
(Adelaide) :
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910'.. £458
Mar., Reserves.
1911 .. £468 Nil £468 10.
.] 912 .. 425 Nil 425 435
1913 . . 1722 Nil 1722 2157
1914 .. 2435 6p.c. =£l2oo 1235 3392
1915 . . 1883 6 „ „ 1200 683 4075
1916 .. 2045 6 „ „ 1200 845 4920
1917 .. 2355 8 „ „ 1600 1255 6175
For many years S. Aus. had only one trustee
co.; then almost simultaneously two old-
established pastoral-agency cos', went into
the business. Elder’s had a big pull, for no
concern has a better name in the central
State than the parent Elder, Smith and Co.
At the outset, naturally, it didn’t have a
great deal of w.ork to do; but very soon pri-
vate trustees who knew they had no special
qualifications for the job transferred their
trusts, and no doubt largely in this way the
value of the estates in hand has moved up
remarkably:—■
1911 .. £53,562 I 1915 .. £1,405,146
1913 . . 525,268 | 1915 . . 2,460,347
The co. has the benefit of Elder Smith's
organisation; and that must be of great
advantage not only to the co. but to the
beneficiaries as well. On top of that the co.
has its own specialised knowledge of the
law governing trusteeship; moreover, like
other trustee cos. and unlike the private
trustee, it has put up a guarantee —of
£20,000 —that it will be a faithful steward,
and has made shareholders —a moneyed lot
—responsible for another £BO,OOO. In addi-
tion to this expert knowledge, these special
facilities and this bond to be of good beha-
vior, it has the great advantage over the indi-
vidual trustee that it is not mortal. A
testator who makes one or two individuals
his trustees generally names people who
are not much" younger than himself. Fre-
quently they predecease him, which means
expense; at other times they die soon after
he does, and that is liable to mean the
administration of his estate by people whom
he wouldn’t think of appointing. The appoint-
ment of a public co. secures a continuity of
management which may be of the utmost
importance.
It is no wonder, then, that the plan of
appointing a company trustee is making
steady headway. Generally the co. has to
wait a good while for decent returns; in
this case it is more fortunate. It already
pays 8 p.c. and puts by over 6 p.c.; and that
is a very fine result indeed in view of (1)
the very small risks in the trustee business
itself provided there is reasonably capable
management, and (2) the fact that the
whole of the share capital is in public
securities.
* * # *
Charles Anderson & Co., Ltd., hat manu-
facturers (Sydney)—the deficit to start
with represents the intangible item of good-
will ;—•
Towards
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1912. . £10,621 10 p.c. =£7,600 £3121 £4151
1913.. 11,118 10 „ „ 7,500 3618 533
Reserves.
1914.. 9,620 8 „ „ 6,000 3620 3087
1915. . No accounts available; old co. busy form-
ing itself into a new one, writing up its
assets, and doubling its capital ( £75,000
to £150,000) to correspond.
To Nominal
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1916.. 12,257 8 p.c. = 12,000 257 257
After Charles Anderson had carried on busi-
ness on his own account for some' years he
turned the undertaking over to a private co.
in 1903, and took shares for his goodwill.
The co. did reasonably well, and gradually
the goodwill item was written off altogether,
profits being accumulated to provide tangi-
ble assets in its place. Then new interests-
came into the business —the shares were
listed a few years ago-—and the old question
cropped up : Was it a prudent thing to have
a capital so small that, in order to absorb
the profits, the dividend would have to be- at
the rate of something well over 10 p.c.? It
was decided that it wakn’t prudent; so the
only thing to do was to form a new co., to
which the old one could sell its goodwill, for
shares; hence the doubling of the capital.
As at Dec., 1914, freeholds and plant stood
in the books at £42,390. To-day freeholds,
plant and goodwill stand at £93,344. How
much of the extra £50,954 represents new
premises and plant, how much of it is value
added to old premises and plant on revalua-
tion, and how much is goodwill this paper
doesn’t know. It is, no doubt, one of the
things that the directors don’t want the
public to know. As for other assets, etc.,
this is how the co. has fared in four years;
1912. 1914. 1916.
Liabilities ..£33,185 £25,723 £15,636
Assets. —•
Stock.. .. 25.459 24,216 46,824
Book debts .. 18,196 18,191 20,158
Cash, etc. .. 21,495 25,013 10,073
There is nothing much the matter with that.
Evidently the war hasn’t done this co. any
harm. Incidentally, among the liabilities
for the past year is. a provision (size un-
mentioned) for taxation.
* * * *
Following the unearthing of the 20,000,000
tons of mineral stone at Mount Tennyson,
near Yethoime, in the Bathurst district
(N.S.W.), another molybdenite field has been
located just off the Sydney-Bathurst road, a
few hundred yards behind Brooklands House
tourist resort. There is not any bulky out-
crop as seen at Mount Tennyson. Rather
there is a blanket of overburden of a few
feet of rich soil. The importance of the
find has yet to be tested. Unlike the forma-
tion on the Mount Tennyson field, the new
stuff runs in pockets, the molybdenite stand-
ing out in flakes in relief against the light-
ore background. Patches of the stuff are
rich, and on the lines of the New England
district molybdenite. One reef has been
proved at 3ft. wide, and sinking is proceed-


WRITE for BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be
obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
as
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
of
YOUR WILL.
Trust Funds now under the
Company’s control exceed
£.12,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,00C
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-uo Caoital .. .. 96,165 6 6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W\ K. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney,
Bendigo Amalgamated
Goldfields. No Liability.
Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-Houston Direct and Alternat-
ing Current Generators for your power and lighting
supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators in opera-
tion in Australia, than any other make. The reason
IS reliability. Write for further particulars and
quotations to the Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt
A new invention that is attracting marked atten-
tion is an all-steel fence made and designed in
Australia, by the Rawson Moody Manufacturing Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney. It is built with powerful
steel posts and droppers, in conjunction with which
is used a powerful non-stretch steel wire, and the
whole makes a dandy fence that is simple, strong
and cheap, as it costs only 15s. to £1 per chain
complete. Catalogue on request.— Advt.
Knowledge is of two kinds. We know a subject
ourselves, or we know where we can find information
upon it. Builders, mineowners, stationowners, etc.,
who have heard of the many merits of Adamax
Roofing—or who are desirous of learning more about
its many good points—should send to-day for a free
copy of the Adamax booklet, “The Adamax Series.”
It is a neatly-designed booklet, chockful of valuable
information upon Adamax Roofing and the other
Adamax lines. Mail your request to William
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth and Adelaide.
* * t #
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and sav
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
* * * *
When considering economy there can be no satis-
factory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe. The
ideal pressure pipe, manufactured in all sizes from
3 inches to 14 feet in diameter. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited. Head office: 57 York Street, Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. Factories :
Lane Cove River, N.S.W., Footscray, Vic., and Port
Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd., 56 Pitt Street, Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.— Advt.
* * * *
The House that Jack Built of Asbestolite Cement
Sheets is giving great satisfaction, just as all Asbesto-
lite Houses do. Write for Booklet “B.” Spriggs’
Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered .Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock’
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plantg, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co,
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
**. * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals at
lowest rates. Call or write for narticulars. H B
9°-> Ltd - 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; 'and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT.
Culwi’lla Chambers, Public Trustee.'
67 Castlereaarh Street. Svrlnev.
ing. Several other lines of stone believed to
cafry similar values are on the property,
which belongs to Donaldson Bros., who
made the discovery.
# * * #
Machinery is being carted from Bathurst
(N.S.W.) to the Mt. Tennyson molybdenite
field in large quantities. If the deposit can
he proved payable, the Yetliolme district
promises to become a prosperous and popu-
lous locality, while the advent of a vigorous
mining field in the district will do much to
stimulate prospecting for other minerals.
Undoubtedly, one of the reasons why mining
has so completely died out in regions of
N. S. Wales, where at one time it was a
large and prosperous industry, is that when
the easiest won gold had been secured, pro-
spectors drifted away, few of the minerals in
high demand to-day being then worth the
looking for. Now industrial metals are in-
finitely more valuable such localities possess
no mining community to search for and
develop them, in consequence of which we
are presented with the strange anomaly of,
in many cases at least, the most promising
localities for systematic prospecting being
identical with those in which mining was
first indulged in. There are probably many
of the oldest mining districts in Australia,
abandoned except for a few ancient fos-
siekers, who have a large knowledge of the
primitive arts of the early gold days and of
little else, which offer a considerably better
field for systematic prospecting by' experi-
enced men than many newer and less easily
available regions. It is now a matter of
years since the discovery of the Mt. Tenny-
son molybdenite field; yet the new find on
Ponaldson’s property, three miles away, only
the other day, illustrates how with the pre-
sent dearth of prospecting in N. S. Wales,
valuable shows may remain undiscovered for
a substantial time even in a locality to which
public interest has been directed for a
material period. The new show, by the way,
is considered to be far superior to anything
yet discovered on that field. There is'sound
reason to hope that energetic search may
unearth many more prizes in the locality.
* * * *
“Quidam”: While much money is continu-
ally being spent in opening up unpromising
wild cats in inaccessible regions, where no
sane person -would ever want to go if he could
reasonably keep away, it seems strange that
such a deposit of valuable ore as that in
sight in the old Sunny Corner (N.S.W.)
mine should for so long have remained un-
worked. A producer of enormous wealth in
the past, worked from as far back as 1876
for, at various stages, copper, gold, silver-
lead and copper-gold, Sunny Corner long ago
established a record that will compete with
most of the giants of the past. And it has
not, like many of its compeers, been gutted
of everything that could offer a reasonable
chance of paying. expenses. The old mine
has in sight at present thousands of tons
of ore containing gold, silver, lead, zinc, cop-
per, arsenic and sulphur, the aggregate value
of which, at the present prices of metals, is
extraordinarily high. Any new proposition
which could show one face of ore similar
to those to be seen in many of the work-
ings of the Sunny Corner mine would set
the market jumping, yet it has laid dor-
mant for years, in favor of infinitely inferior
shows. Against various troubles and dis-
asters of the past, when methods of separa-
tion and refining of metals were considerably
inferior to those of the present day—and
to which long periods of magnificently pay-
able results may be set as counterpoise—
there exists the one outstanding feature that
overshadows all trivial matters of detail and
ancient history: that the various faces in
the mine at present display splendid quanti-
ties of. ore that is strikingly similar in its
composition and constituents to that of the
Broken Hill South, w T ith the exception that
it is just about thrice as rich in every com-
ponent metal. When ore, very much inferior
to the last obtained in large quantities dur-
ing the previous operations of the mine, can
be taken from the old dumps and despatched
to fai*-off smelting works, and the returns
for only two of the metals therein (i.e., silver
and lead) are sufficient to show a satisfac-
torily payable result, it may be reasonably
predicted that, when modern methods of
separation and treatment enable all the
metals to be turned into money, as is being
done with many similar ores nowadays, the
old mine will certainly take its proper place
among the principal producers of the Com-
monwealth.
Outside of the mine in question, more-
over, there is much room for prospecting
and development work in the Sunny Corner
district, which presents marked potentiali-
ties far in advance of many regions more in
the public eye. A tremendous lever towards
the development of its visible and probably
still greater undiscovered wealth would be
the advancement of the metal-smelting and
refining industry in Australia to the stage of
successfully, grappling -with complex ores, so
that the miner could get payment for each
and every metal, instead of, as at present,
being paid, with heavy deductions and
charges, for a couple, and penalised for all
the others. A continent in which an ore
containing metal values of, say, £2B per ton
is worth £8 or £9 to the producer, much of
its value going into the atmosphere or the
slag dump, can hardly pride itself on being,
metallurgically speaking, in the forefront of
civilisation. When Australia cannot only
mine, but scientifically and economically
treat, ores containing minerals which all the
world desires, it will have fewer fields like
that of Sunny Corner lying dormant and
practically deserted; while it will have a
much better chance of attracting and main-
taining enough population to find a. sufficient
local demand for its own products instead of
rooting them out and sending them abroad
as at present.
* * # •
Long Tunnel, Gundagai (N.S.W.), around
which cluster memories of prospector George
Rice and his £20,000 surprise packet, has
been taken over by a company, with Geo. J.
Hepburn as manager. During the past five
years the mine has been gouged solely for
bonanzas by a syndicate, and practically
nothing has been done to open up the pro-
perty. The syndicate ignored a reef from
12ft. to 20ft. wide on which 30ft. of stoping
has proved a -value of 12dwt., and a lode at
260 ft. level from 3ft. to Bft., from which a
trial test crushing of 70 tons cleaned up for
109 oz. from the plates alone last Christmas
eve. Hepburn is putting down a big shaft
to 300 ft. and installing a battery to crush
1000 tons a month. The co. is going after
the big bodies of stone. Amongst the syndi-
cate’s plums were 3500 z. from 3001 b. of dirt;
1730 z. from three dishes; 500 oz. from 3001 b.
of stone; and 900 oz. from 2cwt.
* * * *
Chairman Wharton, of Y Water Tin
(N.S.W.), excuses last half-year’s average
of fib. of tin oxide per cub. yd. to losses of
very fine tin, but there is a hope of improv-
ing the recovery by making some adjust-
ments. The estimated yield of the latest run
is 43 tons of tin oxide; and with tin at the
present high price a profit should be made.
Last half-year 348,000 cub. yds. were sluiced,
but the management expects to increase the
yardage, for it is only by dealing with very
large quantities of dirt at a profit of 2d. or
3d. per yd. that this co. can expect to pay
dividends.
C.S.A., near Cobar (N.S.W.), produced
182 tons of copper matte in six days 19
hours recently, containing from 41 to 48
tons of copper, averaging from 22 p.c. to
26 p.c. copper per ton of matte. When the
smelter is running regularly the average
metal contents in matte should improve.
* * * *
Now that there is a probability that zinc
concentrates will have to be stored at
Broken Hill for lack of shipping tonnage,
producers are bestirring themselves and have
engaged English metallurgist Gilbert Rigg
to advise them respecting distillation works
in Australia. The B.H. Prop, gave an
object lesson, but.the plant was expensive
and costs of treatment at a decent rate of
wages became a bug-bear. The electrolytic
method isn’t a way out, simply because the
first unit timed to start next August will
produce only 10 tons of spelter per day, or
say cStiOO tons a year. There is talk of
Australia producing 45,000 tons of spelter a
year; we are pretty certain to do it, for we
have coal near the coast and the cost of
producing zinc concentrates at Broken Hill
from tailings is moderate. Climatic condi-
tions and expensive freight to Europe on
spelter are against us; but all the other
adverse conditions are created by ourselves.
Low wages and cheap coal are not essential
to the spelter industry unless we come into
competition with lower wages and cheaper
coal elsewhere.
* * * *
“On Looker”: Much hot air was expended
at the Kalgoorlie mining conference about
Westralia being one big auriferous belt, etc.
But the fact is that the Golden Mile has
practically comprised its gold industry, and
that area is rapidly becoming depleted. There
have been good mines, such as Sons of
Gwalia, Fenian, Cosmopolitan, Edna May
and others, outside of the Golden Mile, but
these are relatively few, whilst the great
majority have proved bad speculations. The
subsidising of prospectors, either by the
State or privately, is not likely to unearth
new mines. The financially assisted pro-
spector rarely finds anything for his backer.
The successful prospector is generally the
one who provides his own turn-out
and tucker and battles on his own. He will
work then, but when he is engaged by a
benefactor who pays him 30s. or 40s. per
week and half interest in discoveries, he
often takes life very quietly. Work in the
mines is now plentiful, wages good and the
pace not too fast; and, in these circum-
stances, there is not much inducement for
some prospectors to go into the bush. A
number of the right sort of prospectors are
still giving the game a trial, and, although
it is a long time since a “gold mine” was
discovered, they often make wages locating
small ore bodies and utilising public crush-
ing plants for treatment purposes. Some
good might be accomplished by the State
assisting prospectors after they have found
something attractive, but as for assisting
them at the outset —well, anyone who has
had experience of backing prospectors won’t
stand for that.
* » * *
Minister for Mines Robinson is getting a
formidable list _of Westralia’s abandoned
leases and their performances ready for
publication. He would have done so sooner
but for the delay caused in tracing the boun-
daries of some of these old holdings, many
of which have been taken up again and
again, and whose shape and size have been
altered several times. In some cases no record
lias been kept of the work done or the crush-
ing's obtained, but Robinson is making the
best of what so far has been a very hard job.
He started a publicity campaign the other
day by sending a cable to the Agent-General
about the State’s mineral resources, and
whooped over the fact that in the last 30
years production had exceeded £137,000,000,
and dividends £26,000,000. Something was
also said about the great shortage of skilled
miners in the West and the formulation of
schemes for the absorption of our own re-
turned soldiers and those of allied nations.
He wound up with the assertion that the
State contained the largest tract of unpro-
spected mineral country in the world, which
is probably true. Later on, Robinson pro-
poses to employ press agents to deluge and
dazzle the world with statistics and informa-
tion respecting Westralian mining, and he is
also considering the advisableness of offering-
special cash prizes each year for the best
gold, base metal and precious stone dis-
coveries, and for the best invention calcu-
lated to benefit the treatment of refractory
ores.
Edna May's ore reserves on October 29
last were 35,951 tons, of which 13,526 tons
have since been crushed, leaving 22,425 tons
in reserve above 300 ft. The 385 ft. level,
three parts opened up, has yielded 1413 tons.
The bulls say the 22,425 tons will go 80s.
Surely Williams doesn’t hint otherwise when
he. wires “will have no difficulty in main-
taining tonnage, but grade must necessarily
be dependent on the average quality of ore
to be opened up at bottom level.” Does
this mean that the rest of the ore has gone
from above 300 ft.? Williams really nails
that deduction hard down when adding that
“it can only.be anticipated that this (the
quality of ere from the bottom level) will
be lower than from shallower levels.” Even
so, the mine isn’t gutted. Over 22,000 tons
have come from each level, and from the
300 ft. to the Deeps boundary at 476 ft. gives
176 ft. of backs. If the shoot hasn’t
meandered into the Central there ought to
be 40,000 tons of ore to get out at that
depth. Costs shouldn’t get much above 255.,
so that if the grade falls to 15dwt. the co.
should have £105,000 profit in sight, plus
that from the dumps. The stqne crushed by
Deeps is a fair sampling of the shoot at
480 ft., and it has gone 17dwt. The doubtful
factors for Edna May are the length of the
shoot and its general average. It is up to
Tricks to find out.
* * * *
In his Tasman and Crown Lyell Extended.
Queenstown (Tas.), report J. Nicholson
reports progress from the time he took
charge. First he declares that his air blast
treatment does the trick. Then, “after due
consideration and by experiments,” he finds
it would be cheaper and more economical
to treat the heavier galena, mentioned in
his patent, first by wet concentration, and
treat the lighter afterwards by the dry and
air pressure. So he slimes the ore, gets the
heavy mineral off on Wilfley’s, then classifies
the residues and dries them, by which time
they are fit to be introduced to the air blast.
This looks like going back to the old days,
but Nicholson considers it’s right or he
wouldn’t pen this—
With the 100,000 tons of galena ore proved in
sight, and part of the crude ore which is valuable
enough to bag without treatment, and the valuable
copper lode, which increases the value of the mine,
and gives us returns straight away, this all tends
to prove to those who have invested that all future
operations are assured.
Yet, of the copper lode he says that if it
proves 10 p.c. value it will be “the most
valuable lode in the mine, taking into con-
sideration the price of copper.” On the
result of the assay depends the future opera-
tions of this lode. Nicholson says “the
treatment only requires concentration and
selling of concentrates to the smelters which
are at Queenstown.” Just so.
**• * *
Pioneer (Tas.) is paying a Is. dividend,
following a similar distribution in March.
Last half-year the output of black tin was
271 tons, and if the Pioneer gets
plenty of water an output of 10 tons of
tin oxide per month may be maintained for
a time. The official figures show" that re-
serves equal to last half-year’s average of
1.231 b. per yaM are dwindling, and the gay
talk about a nve years’ life is based on an
immense quantity of lo>v-grade wash dirt.
* * * *
A single dredge producing from 30 to 40
tons of tin oxide per month cannot be ex-
pected to pay frequent dividends on
1 00,000 shares, That is the position
o/ Katrut Basin .Tin, Siam. The first Is.
(ioOOO) proved a stick to hammer the
market with. Tin dredging is very profitable
under existing conditions; and though a
yield of 120 tons of tin oxide every three
months isn’t impossible, it is improbable
that Ratrut should clear an average net
profit of £4O per ton of tin oxide for the
next five years, and it requires to do rather
better than that to return 20s. per share
* * *
During the past year No. 2 North
Columbia Gympie (Q.), has done some im-
portant development work and has reduced
its debts by £3003. The management reckons
there is every indication of good returns
, eom , in , g term - The S drive at
the 146Sft. level has got through the fault.
r , eef 6in - thick is showing gold. No.
Columbia, next door, crushed 74 tons for
bo6oz. gold a while back. No. 3, which paid
dividends so long, is now making calls.
John Moule has blown in the Corella (Q.)
fuinace, but as he hasn’t opened up much
uew ore since he got back North his cam-
depends on whether he can scrape up
a find in the three or four leases on which
he is scratching for stuff.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 3^.)


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1906
QMMPM
«E PLUS ULTRA
rtygyjhkjh
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
jvtosie
ALLAN &.
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/1
Norwegian Craale Song —Mvel
Meditation - - Morel
A Resolve - - Kollar
Question - - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blore
ALLAN S. 261 Collins St.. Melfa.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE. —
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
*★*
§of3Cg oro
THE HANDY POCKET BOTTLE
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY-SI NCE 1679
CONTENTS ABOUT 34 REPUTED QUART
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 7, 1917.
My Dear Arini.—
Papua’s tall Governor J. H. P. Murray,
passed this way en route to Melbourne from
Port Moresby. Mosquitoes were in full
blast, free orchestral accompaniments day
and night, when the popular Excellency said
good-bye to his territory. A wife and only
daughter are waiting on the other side of
the submarine menace. But no news comes
as to whether son Terence found time to
leave the Great Fight to attend his own
wedding with Miss Philippa Kitchener. She’s
a pet niece of the late AVar Lord.
Hospital Friday, with the coat-tails of
every man flying before the whirlwind of
female collectors, brought a good harvest,
considering the times and the taxes. Pro-
bably there’ll be nearly £7OOO in the bag.
At a big meeting last week in the Town
Hall (Deputy-Governor Cullen in the
chair) it was decided that June 1 should
be Red Triangle Day. The Y.M.C.A. wants
£50,000 from N. S. Wales for the benefit of
the Kangaroo at the Front.
You remember Dr. Brissenden, a well-
known Sydney barrister, who enlisted as a
private in order to hurry to the Front?
From France he writes in feeling terms of
the recent frost-bitten winter. “Thermome-
ters ranged from nine below freezing point
in mid-day, to 30 below at night—the
coldest winter here since 1890. Everything
was frozen hard as a stone. The water in
one’s basin was always solid in the morn-
ing, and thawing one’s fingers after dressing
was a painful process.” Now, how about
that 100.000 pair of socks the AVar Chest
wants this month? Our new Ally, U.S.,
reckons that the war is likely to be a longer
one than many people anticipate. Socks
sent from Australia in June will be ready
for Billjim’s chilled toes when autumn
leaves are falling in France.
J. 11. Cann, president of the National Bel-
gian Relief Fund, and the joint lion.,
secs, announce the close of the fund on
May 15. Cash in hand will then be re-
mitted to Agent-General Wade, to be used
for the purpose for which it was raised. And
that is likely to keep the London office busy.
The Frank Davenports have lost their
younger son, Guy, killed in action on the
AVestern Front. The handsome mother is a
persistent worker for the children of mean
streets, and is one of the founders of the
Free Kindergarten schools.
About the only collection day which bad
an aesthetic odor upon its hours was Violet
Day in August, 1915. No frenzied citizens
were pursued by Amaryllis; instead,
levies of quiet girls sold the exquisite
blooms at ordinary market rates, and
£lBOO was the return. This sum went
towards the fund that enabled Dr. Mary
Booth to open the Soldiers’ Club. She’s
been its fond Mother Hubbard ever since;
but the cupboard,is getting bare. Unless the
recent State edict, “No street collections for
war funds,” is repealed (the Y.M.C.A. has
jumped the Billjim’s home in
George-street may have to shut up. Another
Violet Day couldn’t be an affliction since the
rattling cashbox nuisance would be absent.
A slim, briglit-eyed young woman, of pre-
possessing appearance, carrying 1001 b.
weight of sausages along a main street (with
juicy samples breaking through the wrap-
pings) doesn’t cause a riot in well-fed Syd-
ney. So Mabel Grant Cooper, loaded
as described, passed down George-street
to the Soldiers’ Club (where she’s
the youthful missus of Saturday feasts
for Bill J.) ; and nobody called the attention
of the traffic police. When the mysteries
frizzled in the pan the boys fell to, while
Dorothy Hopkins fiddled melodiously and
Miss Laing and other pretty damsels gener-
ously piled the plates.
Melba passed through this town on her
way to Coombe Cottage at Lilydale. After
leaving the ’Murkan boat the singer was
surrounded by a regiment of reporters, and
gave glad tidings of Much Money raised by
herself in the States. For the Allies’ stock-
ing, of course. Now, Australia hopes to get
another bucketful of gold from the same
course.
The A’eterans’ Home at Bare Island —the
bleak rock that used to be fortified in the
days of short-range guns—is in lean circum-
stances. Private generosity has kept a roof
over the head of the old soldiers w T ho fought
in Britain’s wars long ago; now Melba
comes to the rescue. Our sovereign voice is
going to entice a fat cheque to the very
Bare Island. Madame has seen the munici-
pal “heads” about the matter, but whether
the Town Hall rent is likely to come down
as a result deponent knoweth not. Mean-
while, John Lemmone pulls off his coat to
do the necessary bullocking in organising
the show.
The Sydney Phil. Society will offer the
“Damnation of Faust” (a fine fire-eating
Falstaffian label) by Berlioz, in the Town
Hall this week.
Maitland wore its best frocks for the wed-
ding of John Pearson Eckford, of Ballata
station. The charming lady in the case was
Margaret Netta, eldest hope of the R. F.
Grahams, of Bellevue House, Largs, West
Maitland. Oyster-tinted shimmer with
orange blossoms and tulle completed the
bridal finery. Bridesmaid Marion Graham,
in cream, smiled under cherry-colored millin-
ery, with brown furs to warm it up. Gunner
Logan Graham was second best-man. Honey-
moon at Abbotsleigh, Queensland, the
station owned by Graham Bros.
Tamworth did itself proud on Anzac Day.
Eighteen maidens mounted on prancing
steeds each led a horse with an empty saddle
in the procession. These Australian Joans
were turned out in smart dark habit-skirts,
white coats and cadet hats. Each spare
saddle bore the invitation, “Your comrades
who were able to go earlier want your help.
Be a sport—enlist now!” Eighteen recruits
leapt into the vacancies. Irene Sexty, presi-
dent of the local girls’ association, organ-
ised the parade.
Leura Links committee has a virile rival
in the rolling uplands where they chase the
small white ball at AVentworth Falls. Both
clubs are out to make money for war funds,
with the help of professional goffers. Re-
cently Charles Campbell (Leura), Carnegie
Clark (Royal Sydney Golf Club), Fred
Popplewell (Australian Golf Club) and D.
G. Soutar (Manly) tossed their fees into
the hat at the close of exhibition matches
played at the Falls on April 14 and Leura
on April 15. In consequence £54 goes to
the War Chest..
A Croix de Guerre came into the Arthur
family lately by way of Colonel Fraser
Clark, of the R.A.M.C., who . married a
daughter of Mrs. Richard Arthur. Fellow
sharers of the French decoration are Field-
Marshall Haig and knight William Robert-
son (on whom the Kitchener mantle is
reported to have fallen), who has experi-
ences all the way up from the ranks of
Britain’s army,
Gum this notice to your vanity-box. Kate
Rooney will warble in the Town Hall on
May 18. Proceeds go to the Home of the
Good Shepherd at Ashfield.
This laughing, boy-
ish face belongs to
Midshipman Donald
Gyles, one of the.
heroes of the de-
stroyer Broke. Three
years ago this photo
was taken here when
the lad was a junior
cadet on the train-
ing-ship Mersey. At
the outbreak of war
the pink-cheeked
kiddie was trans-
ferred to the navy.
When, a week or two
ago, he was wounded
in the face while in
charge of the Broke’s
fo’castle during the
Channel fight, he was
temporarily stunned, but picked himself up,
wiped away the blood with his coat-sleeve
and rushed to his gun. And when some burly
Germans got aboard the Broke the young-
ster, with the help of a couple of gunners, had
a desperate hand-to-hand fight and, eventu-
ally, savs the boy’s simple narrative, “we
cleared the decks of the enemy, killing those
who intercepted us, and made the rest
prisoners.”
There was a huge recruiting rally at the
Stadium the other evening, with R. L. Baker
in charge. The Sportsmen’s Unit shook up
the applause with a bayonet display that
made the more timorous feminine feel
creepy. It was so deadly earnest that the
glittering steel looked wicked enough to
scare an enemy battalion. Recruiting
speeches by Mayor Richard Meagher, Ser-
geant-Major Bohm (a live-wire returned
soldier), Lieuts. Seaborn and sportsman
Diamond in khaki, unseated some of the up-
to-then barnacles. They cam# with a rush,
72 of them, from the back seats, and handed
in their names for the war register. The
Austral Quartet sang in refrain, “I Hear
Their Gentle Alices Calling.” Then the
recruiting-sergeant very appropriately got
busy.
This keen-looking soldier, who sat to
Judith Fletcher for his photo,, is Major
Frank Hewitt, M.C. Enlisting as a private
in October, 1914, he fought his way to a
commission in the immortal struggle at Lone
Pine, and was mentioned in despatches. Then
came the evacuation, and lie was amongst
the heroic band who melted away while
Johnnv Turk was pounding at the
old address. From the Dardanelles Frank
Hewitt went to France, where he was
wounded and awarded the Military Cross, in
1916, and returned to Australia with the
Major’s crown on his shoulder-strap. He
was then placed on the reserve list perma-
nently unfit for active service. Now he is mod-
estly surprised that anyone should mention
his little performance at the Front. Pre-
sently he returns to his former civilian job
in the Solomon Islands.
Very few people know that there’s a mag-
nicent display of Antarctic photos, in the
Education Building’s galleries. One
stumbled on it by chance, looking for some-
thing else. The other half of the admirers
present was a young man, who had evidently
stalked the lonely exhibition by similar acci-
dent. The pictures, by the Sydney man,
P. J. F. Hurley, are vivid reminiscences of
the Mawson Expedition of 1911-14. Douglas
Mawson got a knighthood out of those chilled
months in the frozen south, and our own
Prof. David got fat on blubber, seal steak
and candle grease entries. Don’t miss the
photos., which give domestic habits of lady
sea elephants and grandpa penguins, in
detail.
Australia is entitled to feel proud of Alice
Cashin, matron of the recently torpedoed
hospital ship, Gloucester Castle. She is a
clever Sydney nurse, and had a reputation
in her profession even before the war started.
She controlled the General Hospital in
Calais at the beginning of Armageddon ; and
later on went to Egypt, where her work
earned her the highest decoration a woman
can obtain —the Royal Red Cross, first-class.
There died at Coogee a few days ago, Mrs.
Ena Maurice, a pathetic little figure to
whom life seemed to always grudged a fair
deal. She was the eldest daughter of the
late Thos. Finney, Brisbane’s biggest mer-
chant in the ’Bo’s, and early learned to wield
a facile pen. Her booklet, “A ’Possum
Abroad,” was a remarkably amusing and
readable account of an Australian on the
wing through Europe. “’Possum” (Ena’s
penname) was then chief contributor for
Bobbie Burns, on Brisbane Figaro. Later
Mrs. Maurice wrote some delightful matter
on Japan. Helping lame dogs over stiles
was a hobby of hers, and few persons outside
her very intimate circle knew how numerous
was that limping pack.
The big body of Maorilanders who were
here last week look tough customers
for the arrogant Prussian to be introduced
to. These broad-chested sons of the fern
glades have saucy millinery with a red strip
of felting round their high-crowned khaki
hats. The crowns are not as high as Mt.
Cook, but the ambitions and courage of the
wearers are.
The Old Gold and Silver Fund clamors for
your old-fashioned trinkets. Even your cast-
off teeth, with or without a stuffing of gold,-
are heartily welcomed in the committee’s
curiosity shop, 62 Hunter-street. D. Went-
worth and J. S. Richardson are hon. secs, of
this good excuse to melt down relics and
help the patriotic plate to overflow.
A favorite singer whose honeyed temper
makes her the prey of bores, remarks, in
parenthesis, that “New York artists are
carefully tended ere they appear before
audiences. At the Flail, for in-
stance, there are beautifully-fitted bath,,
dressing and lounge rooms, and a maid m
attendance. Thus, musicians having busi-
ness in the city all day bring in their suit-
cases in the morning. Without the tuss or
returning to some possibly distant home, they
can have a hot bath, dress and come on
feeling fresh and at their best. Sydney
Town Hall, on the other hand, lias a dugout,
accessible to any stranger who chooses to
wander in and torment artists, who are at
the mercy of many dreaded bores. The same
thing applies to every concert hall in the
city. At the other side of the world, at the
Roval Albert Hall, for instance, a martinet
guards the artists’ room. No one can gain
admission without sending in their name
and getting permission to enter from the
performer they wish to see. Even this con-
cession is only granted after the first half
of the programme.”
The craze for beastie skins makes this
winter’s trimmings all heads and tails. Tittle
animals, carefully stuffed, sit on the hats of
our Best People, and imitation cub tigers
snuggle round the necks of our affluent young
matrons. Yet there’s only eight or 10
weeks of winter in this sunny clime. 1 sup-
pose that somebody will be sure to econo-
mise .soon and help win the beastly war.
Artist Lister Lister’s annual show in
Anthony Horderns’ Art Gallery is remini-
scent of South Coast hills and dales, giant
-urns anywhere, and sandy beaches beyond
Narrabeen. Lister’s pet bird, the sea-gull,
is at the old stand on the creamy sand
preening its feathers. The Bega district,
where the fat cheeses come from,, is well
represented, and sun and shadow glints from
Burragorang valley. .
A grocery afternoon at Graythwaite,
Thomas Dibbs’s generous gift to convalescent
soldiers, brought along a ton or two ot
produce. The Red Cross, by the. way, has
had to date practically no exes, in connec-
tion with running this roomy mansion. The
Cullen lady opened the tea party.
Artist Gladys Owen has folded her easel
into a corner while she warms the chilly fringe
of recruiting meetings. Her latest effort has
the “Anti-Shouting” text, which she’s work-
ing along the South Coast. This isn’t a
dodge to try to keep the Kangaroo on cold
tea. It’s really a plea to save sick men—
returned soldiers in country, convalescent
homes, particularly—-from unthinking friends.
These invalids are not physically fit to
dabble in the flowing bowl, but it’s often
forced on them with the best intentions.
Then there’s trouble for the V.A.D.
The Fruit and Vegetable Fund (hon.
organiser R. M. Pontey) is now officially
registered with the State War Council. Its
premises, 16 Carrington-street, Wynyard
Square, are provided rent free by the Govern-
ment. This winter 1100 soldiers’ wives and
4000 kiddies will make their pilgrimage,
bag in hand, to collect the goods. Every-
thing helps. Coffee, cocoa, tea might be
added to the praties and pumpkins you send
to these game women and youngsters.
As Britain draws in its waist-belt and cuts
down its rations, overlapping Australian war
funds might take the hint and go steady .with
supplies. An Australian girl who married a
naval officer a few years ago writes: —
We are not move hungry than we were, for our
household cut down its bread and meat when the
first appeal came from the Official Pantryman. Hun-
dreds of other families did the same thing; but,
unfortunately, thousands in London squandered money
on lavish meals in fashionable restaurants. So the
cheeseparing is now an edict.
The generous Australian is apt to give too
much food when there’s a feast for Billjim
on hand. How about organising the amount
of sustenance each patriot brings?
Mrs. Gilbert Lodge is settling down here
again after a long visit to dear, little old-
fashioned Tassy. She is. the handsome lady,
you remember, whose trim tailor-built figure
tops most dressy functions by an inch or
two.
One of the late John Lee’s tall daughters
(father was the squire of Kelso, up Ballarat
way) is in mourning for her husband, Lieut.-
Col. Mclntosh, who was fatally wounded in
the recent fighting in Egypt.
H. N. Southwell got to Spain, after all.
When the Fog was sitting heavily on his
chest he fled to Madrid, then overland to
Paris. Here he struck an Arctic tempera-
ture. Huge blocks of ice were floating down
the Seine (this was in February), and the
bridges were covered with snowy whiskers.
“The cost of living in London is enormous,”
sighs Paling’s old concert manager, “and I
was glad to get out of it for a few weeks. It
has been a brutal winter on this side of the
map.”
The formal “farthing damages” verdict
does not often appear in the Divorce Court,
but a jury handed out that amount to a
petitioner who was granted a divorce the
other day. This estimate of the value placed
upon her loss must be very pleasing to the
lady !
Yours affectionately,
VANDOEIAN.


A Bigger Car-
Model 8S
with More Power
Here is a big, roomy, powerful
four cylinder Overland that is the
last word in motor car construction
and efficiency.
It is luxuriously appointed and
completely equipped.
It is finished in a rich brown
with hood and hood cover to match.
All the conveniences and
comforts that appeal to you in the
highest priced car are found in this
newest Overland yet it costs you
considerably less money.
Point for point, it is the
greatest motor car value on the
market.
A long wheelbase of 112 inches,
cantilever rear springs and 4 inch
tyres assure the greatest ease in
riding.
You get solid comfort and in
addition all the speed and power
that you will ever require. For this
car is equipped with the same big
powerful four cylinder enbloc engine
that has made the Overland famous
throughout the world.
Compare the specifications of
this car with those of other cars in
its price class and form your own
opinion as to its value.
Then ask us for a demonstration
and let us prove to you that you
made no mistake in selecting the
Overland.
All Overland Cars have High-Tension Magneto Ignition.
V:
Model 85
*•«—•r^*.*
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from —
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
Willys-Overland (U.S.A.) Australasia Ltd., 352 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


5^S
ESTABLISHED 77 YEARS.
&
armor’O
D&LiCiou/ \
>tA
HOME-M/\DEr
QjWEETX 1
MADE specially for Farmer’s from
'the purest ingredients, and under
the most hygienic conditions.
Also Special “Pink” and “Blue” boxes,
assorted Creams, Fondants, etc., in two
sizes. Prices .... 5/6 an d 8/6 box.
We Pay Carnage.
DELECTABLE, WHOLESOME, SUSTAIN-
ING are these delicious Ilome-made
S^S'tied^®bb?m ke pRI&S,a/«; 4/ > awl 10/6 per box. Packed in three sizes.
“The Earthquake.”
Copies of the above Musical Composition
can be had direct from the Composer.
Price 2/1. j 0 qlyde,
Kamo, North Auckland, N.Z.
HONESTY
OF PURPOSE
and
DETERMINATION
TO ACHIEVE THE BEST
HAS BROUGHT
BUCKLEY’S
SUCCESS in TAILORING
FOR MEN
A ,|l rc'y'i?i
TJ&y
I «
M ’ r"~.'* /' "*L
,J>
it*'*'
SBSBd
-: -
-\
mu
't7
id 'A
A BUSINESS SUIT
IN VARIETY OF SUITINGS
84 =
It is quite easy for you to Order
by Mail. It is always satis=
factory with BUCKLEY’S.
PATTERNS AND SELF-MEASURE-
MENT FORMS FREE.
BDCKIEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
BODRKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, Mat 7, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie. —
The Stanley dame has had her name figur-
ing in large print at the foot of a special
appeal for the British Red Cross. One of
the money baits will be a raffle for a linen
chest containing £lOO worth of house napery.
Prospective brides are rushing the shilling
lottery.
The British Red Cross offensive has begun
and everybody is expected to help. Baldwin
Spencer is general, with Desboro Annear as
chief-of-staff. Manson, of Maoriland, and
Mrs. McCubbin are helping. Ye Olde Eng-
lish Fayre will happen in Melbourne Town
Hall on the first three days and nights of
June. Annear is designing and modelling
delightful houses, ranging from the period
of James I. to those of Queen Elizabeth and
dull old Anne, whose limb, if you
remember, was pulled bv the Marl-
boroughs. There will be 1G houses
in all.. The Moore timber people have offered
the wood, the fibrous cement people the
stony slabs that will be painted by local
artists. Mrs. McCubbin has begun her col-
lecting with a £4O cheque from some modest
donor. On the Saturday before the event
a party of schoolgirls will ride around dressed
as cavaliers.
Captain Lansell, son of the rich Bendigo
family, is coming wearily home. He was
blinded in battle and suffered a very serious
nervous collapse. Fortunately there is some
hope of him recovering his eyesight.
Poor young St. Leger, the pianist, came
home as a cot case and is now in Caulfield
Military Hospital. A brother of pianist
Hal Elvins arrived on the same boat, also
listed among the seriously ill.
Looking admiringly at the French colonial
piou-pious who passed through the other day
on their way to a brief spell in New Cale-
donia, Melbourne remembered the fighting
Crivellis, sons of the courtly and portly
Albert Park doctor. Louis, the eldest, went
to Paris in 1913 to become an M.D., and
was doing his military service in the French
army when the Kaiser broke loose. He has
been auxiliary surgeon with the 44th Regi-
ment of Field Artillery since August 4, 1914,
rising lately to the rank of surgeon-aide-
major. His record includes a Mention and
the Croix de Guerre, and he has been at
Mons, the Marne, the Aisne and Verdun.
Georges M„ the second boy, has risen from
non-com. to first lieutenant with the 44th
Artillery, and is now an observer in the
Flying Corps, with a Croix de Guerre and
service at Mons, the Marne, the Aisne, Roye,
Albert, the Champagne and Verdun to his
credit. Then there is Rene G., who
severely wounded while serving a “75” in
the Champagne in 1915. He took a spell in
hospital (Croix de Guerre for him too) and
is now in the first line trenches at Verdun.
McGill University, Montreal, Canada,
where humorist Stephen _ Leacock professes
political economy, is beginning to seem to
Victorians like an extension of their own
Alma Mater. It was there that Major
Norman Harris, M.C., of the Victorian
Engineers, took his degree as Master of
Science before marrying plump Rita Moss
and going away on active service. Now Dr.
Arthur Stanley Lamb, who began life as a
Ballarat carpenter, but told his parents he
could do better than make shavings, _ has
taken his degrees at McGill. He finished
head of the class list, and his kiddie, born
about the same time, was made “Class Baby”
and given a loving cup. “Dad” Lamb, as
they call him, is in the Canadian Military
Forces, and is anxious to get to France with
the Canuck Army Medical Corps. Fie won
the 50 yards swimming championship of
British Columbia twice while doing his
course.
From London —
Edith Lyttleton (“G. B. Lancaster”), in England
these several years, has issued an appeal on behalf
of the Anzac Buffet in London, where the Austra-
lian-on-furlough is offered a glad hand, with a
coffee and sandwich, from early morn until late at
night. The Buffet is threatened with extinction
through lack of funds, since it receives no cash
either from Headquarters or the War Chest, and
late advances in the cost of supplies of all kinds
have had a most depressing effect on the balance-
sheet. Running-costs reach about £3OOO a year, aU
provided from private sources. The address is
Anzac Club and Buffet, 94 Victoria-street, West-
minster.
Medico Kent Hughes has set sail for the
Front to visit son Billy. His large abode
in Toorak has been engaged as a high-class
hash fortress.
Mrs. Darrell, the smart Anglo-Indian grass-
widow, recently received a cable reporting
the illness of her husband, Captain Darrell,
in Mesopotamia. She has gone to the
mountains for a few weeks.
Lieutenant “Ronny” Larking, an old Mel-
bourne Grammar boy, bar; just got his M.A.
at Cambridge. He went to the Front, serv-
ing with the Canadians, was attached later
to the Royal Engineers, and was decorated
with the Military Cross last year.
No more Savoy dinners or suppers until
after the war! The last of those lively even-
ings was dated on Monday of last week, and
the haunt of the win-the-war feeder is now
a “tea room.” (No extra charge for sealskin
coats.) Breakfast is off; lunch and a cock-
tail may still be had; but tea is to be the
specialty. Manager Burgess broke his
patrons in to the strange habit at a special
invitation pekoe party on Monday. The
tables were adorned with pink, white and
black stripes, the teapots posed on black
mats with pink roses worked in. Real pink
roses pink shades and curtains betrayed the
penury of these unhappy times.
General Stanley in his red-trimmed khaki,
occupied a centre table with the usual batch
of smart friends. Mrs. Murray Morton had
a party which she adorned with fascinating
feathers in her black hat. Mrs. Barry
Thompson sported a Belgian (where
have I heard that name before?) bonnet
and wore a mass of fur skins. Mrs.
Pohlson, in sparrow-brown, had a big
party. The Emmertons were to the
fore, likewise the MacDonalds. Singers
mounted the rose kiosk at the far end of
the room and performed to the music of a
string orchestra without interrupting the
harmony.
The Andrew Chirnsides, of Berwick, gave
a fete to help build a new vicarage for the
local Anglican church, but well-wishers
when they drove up to the gate full of kindly
enthusiasm found that only the lady of the
house was permitted to perch her stall in
the garden. The others were kept off the
grass, so to speak. Mrs. Chirnside eventu-
ally established herself and her lolly stall
under a spreading foreign tree on her
reserved house lawn. She was bedecked in
garden-party clothes, with a pink feathered
hat and ropes of pearls. The other stallites
made the best of things in the stable road,
.while the £2OO Hag that Chirnside had bought
at a patriotic concert waved in the breeze
at the second-best gate. The first-best gate
was decorated by an elderly piper. The
squattocracy has a lot to learn concerning
the etiquette due to democracy in the private
field of Christian endeavol*.
Vera Parkes and her mother are showing
Mrs. Cass over Australia. Just now they
are at Melbourne, and they will go north
later to their native Bananaland. Colonel
Cass married a Canadian girl.
W. H. Felstead, of The Lane (the late
David Beath, of pious memory, took him
for partner), passed out suddenly last week.
He was an ideal softgoods trader, suave,
smiling and always exquisitely groomed.
Collectors for natrotic funds and charities
found him a splendid mark, and a glad smile
always lighted up the cheque.
The widow Ross Soden gave a dinner-
party to farewell youngest son Alf, back to
the Riverina, where he looks after the
family property. The food was spread at
the Toorak home, and finished up with a
whirl in the ballroom. Major MeFar-
lane attended, also Captain Ryan and
Dr. Barry Thompson. Mrs. Barry T.
wore blue, and Mrs. Millar was beautifully-
arrayed in black, like Mrs. Langlands
Thompson. Doris McKinnon hid the most
of herself in white, and the Mcßeans,
Falkiners and Fred Knights appeared in full
uniform. Batchelor Lawson, who looks
after the rolls, and Captain Andrew, a
plague-germ expert from China, were other
guests.
Adelaide rings up :
The early rains did wonderful things for the gar-
dens, to which the exhibits of the crysanthemum show
duly testified. The affair was a credit to the three
years’ old National Chrysanthemum Society, and its
president, John Lewis. The Galway lady attended to
the opening and congratulated everybody. The
proceeds go to the Y.M.C.A. Army Fund.
The Elder Conservatorium’s new violin teacher,
Gerald Walenn, is due here at the end of this month
or early next. In the seven years that he was at
the Royal Academy of Music he is said to have got
away with every possible prize, and he is credited
with successful tours in the United States and
Canada. He is to fill the place left vacant by big-
hearted Eugene Alderman.
Lieutenant H. Throssell, who won his Y.C. at
Gallipoli and got a tremendous welcome from his old
school, Prince Alfred «College, when he was here
on leave, is reported to have been badly wounded
in Egypt. His brother was killed in the same engage-
ment. And more bad news. B. S. Roach has lost
his son, Kelvin, and Warren Edwards, son of J. R.
Edwards, of Broken Hill, has been killed in action.
Miss Herring’s vineyard at the Sturt has en-
couraged other S.A. women. For some time the
old Leawood Gardens on the Mount Lofty-road have
been in feminine hands, and the present owners,
Miss Laughton and Miss De Mole, are advertising
for others of their sex “willing to work on the land.”
It is a healthier life than typing or clerking, and
it couldn’t pay worse than governessing or teach-
ing.
The Tom Barr Smiths, who fitted in a trip to
Melbourne during their move from Mount Lofty
back to town for the winter, have unpacked at
Birksgate.
Lieutenant W. L. Davies, who was school-teaching
when he enlisted and is an old P.A.C. boy, has won
the Military Cross after a brief two months at the
Front Two of his brothers have been killed, but
fyounger one is still in the line. Dr Stewart ha
had news that his son, who was killed some tune
ago, was mentioned in Doughs Haig s despatches o
November 13 for “distinguished and gallant servi e
and devotion to duty.” , ,
The South Australian Soldiers Fund adde
£24,470 (of which £10,236 was interest) to its
total during the six months ending on March 31,
and reckons its present rate of expenditure at £oo
per week. If the men still to return are to be
properly treated, the public will have to be more
generous. ,
FI. G. Garland, once of the Register s literary
staff’, to whom the war has brought a D.C.M. and a
second lieutenancy, is on his way back to Australia
on leave. . , , ~
The Goodman-Butler wedding happened at the
Walkerville church at the end of the week. The
lieutenant-bridegroom is the Goodmans’ eldest son,
and the bride is one of the “Dick” Butler daughters.
The two blue-frocked bridesmaids were Miss K.
Butler and Miss Dorothy Goodman.
Miss E. I. Benham, who lectured in botany at
the University in the interim between Professor
Tate’s death and Professor Osborn’s appointment,
died at the'end of the week. She was well known
as a teacher in the leading girls’ schools here, and
for some years had been principal of Walford School,
Malvern. A good deal of her spare time went to
the University Women Students’ Society, of which
she was for some time president.
Died at Woodville on Monday, R. D. Hanson,
eldest son of Judge Hanson, who was this States
Chief Justice many years ago. His one son is in
France with a machine-gun section.
We shook the moth-balls out of our rarely-used
evening rags for the amateur “As You Like It” show
at the Queen’s Hall, on Friday. The vice-regals
sat in the front of the dress circle, and as
every other seat was filled at 65., the French Red
Cross gets a handy cheque.
For feminine momentary fancy there is a
brand-new color on the market. It is called
Vert de boteille, which, being translated,
means green-of-a-dead-marine. Men may
later have a touch of the fashionable shade
in ties socks, hats and late hours.
Dorothy and Muriel Dangar, daughters of
the late H. C. Dungar, have left for their
country home. Their sister, Mrs. 11. Osborne,
will keep house at Grantham with her chil-
dren while they are away. A recent cable
brought the news that Major Clive Dangar
(husband of elder sister Nora) has been
wounded in Egypt.
A travelling correspondent tells me that
little Irma Caron added another success to
her Red Cross efforts during the sea trip
from Melbourne to Java. M. P. Adams
arranged a concert, at which Irma sang “One
Fine Day” and various comic opera numbers.
George Chant also sang and Elma MacLeod
stroked the piano.
The Austral Salon had a party to wel-
come singer Maggie McCann, the Scotch-
Australian girl who is now Mrs. Colquhoun
Thompson. She has spent most of her
married life in England and America, but
her Glaskie accent has survived it. all. She
sat with very pink cheeks and a bright smile
. in the midst of dark furs and under a broad-
leaf hat. Sister Mrs. Maloney showed her
off. Mrs. Quinnell, garbed in dove-grey,
was in the throng, and the Best People
rolled up in well-furred crowds to pay their
respect. A very clever little pianist played
some tremendous Liszt music, and Fred
Collier and wife Elsie Treweek sang.
Maggie has been singing for patriotic funds
in England, where husband Colquhoun
Thompson has an expert’s job in the Uni-
versity of Munitions. On Thursday the
Salon welcomes Alice Rees.
The Reps. Club matin6e at the Playhouse
was a frost. It was arranged to help the
Australian Comforts Fund and to endow cots
at the Base Hospital, and every available
star had agreed to shine in the good cause.
Yet the show went cold. The vice-regals
had their seats booked and the committee
had every helper named and thanked in print
on the back of the programmes,. but the
social landsturm didn’t follow their leaders
and there were big, cold gaps in the stalls
and hollow, dark caverns in-the dress-circle,
while the boxes looked like tombs. Lady
Stanley stepped out of her motor in a froth
of black net flounces and a big smoke-blue
overcoat. She wore a Gainsboro’ hat, and
Genthelp Conant strode after her and a little
daughter of ex-Governor. Strickland. John
Madden came along, with his white hair
nicely brushed, and his dame had Hermes
wings in her hat. The Hennessy dame was
clothed in warm autumn tints. Mrs. Geoff.
Syme arrived in a big velvet hat, with her
pretty youngsters and huge baskets of roses.
Mrs. Carse wore the smallest hat of the
season, according to telescope, and Mrs-
Fred Knight was hardly noticeable within
ermine.
The show started very late. An anxious
man stepped out and read lists of regi eis tor
absence from several performers, including
Barry Lupino and Dorothy Brunton. Connie
Ediss and other absentees had nothing to say
for themselves. The entertainment opened
by a Tivoli banjoist sticking his dusty every-
day boots well over the footlights and clang-
ing out a tune or its equivalent.. Then
Marie Eaton stamped on with, her
coal-black eyes flashing danger signals.
She had been pushed on out of her turn
wearing a fine black Napoleon hat and a
white cloth suit: With the help of others
the show proceeded by spasms and encores
till the sun went down, on everybody’s
wrath.
Marie Tempest was somewhat subdued as
“Penelope” on Saturday night. She was so
ill with a cold on Friday that the show
was shut down. The management says that
it is only the second time that this has
happened in 19 years. This was a bad week
for the stars. Barry Lupino was out of
the bill at King’s, and Dorothy Brunton
was away ill from Her Majesty’s.
“Penelope” came on stage blowing her
nose and yet looking IS. Her frock was
of silk the shade of a grey sea, with grey
chiffon hems, and when she greeted a
play-motlier clad in acres of crinolined
puce silk glace a striking color harmony
was established. Add to that cushions
of hunter’s pink on the chintz sofa —and
there’s a picture for you. Penelope runs up
big stage bills; goes off to the races in
a £l5O gown of cream lace with a gold and
black sash, and a hat that looked like a pie-
dish gone mad. A projected trip to Paris
costs hubby six new Bond-street hats, which
fascinating things are all brought on stage in
ornate bonnet-boxes by two milliner girls.
Then Penelope prepares for her motor-trip in
bouganvillia purple cloth and a saucy travel-
ling hat, and dresses for the big scene in
pink over amber silk with streaks of gold.
The house was packed. Genthelp. Conant
partied with some gay young folk. TTie
Falkiners boxed and the Fred Knights were
stalled. Dr. Atkinson was there with his
wife, and Mrs. Monash, with a bright green
tulle lining to her cloak, headed a big party.
A smart young matron wore so huge a
Spanish comb that it blocked a square yard
of the stage. Mrs. Tallis, in a box. was
clothed in severe white samite, built like a
nightgown. Bachelor Dr. Gould sat in the
D.C. centre with a party of pretty girls.
Mrs. Parkes and her daughter (Banana-
land) were close to the footlights.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—Still going strong
'At
if.
H
:*s
rtS
<P
;v 5
H
%
\
■/
l
l
SJ
/
• l
si©
f 1
$
s>
o«
The old proverb savs: —“ Believe not all you hear, and tell not all
you believe.”
But you can believe all you hear about “Johnnie Walker,” and tell
all you believe.
JOHN WALKER & SON Ltd., Scotch Whtsky Distillers, KILMARNOCK


THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1863.
Directors:
WILLIAM DIXSON, Chairman.
Senator the lion. Sir ALBERT J. GOULD. A. A. C. COCKS MI. V
lion. TIIOS. WADDELL, M.L.A. H. C. L. AXDERSOX, ALA.
Acting General Manager: J. ,S. MARKS.
HEAD OFFICE: 106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Branches and Agencies in New South Wales. Agents in New Zealand and Fiji :
The Bank of New Zealand: Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia: The
National Bank of Australasia Ltd.; Queensland : The Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Agents and Correspondents throughout, the world.
Drafts Irawn on and cable remittances made direct to Foreign Places. Letters
of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. ■ Drafts ■’ssned on San Francisco and New York in dollars or sterling.
rtygyjhkjh
WHISKY
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Norseman”: During Sydney Show week
I got talking to a John Hop, and mentioned I
came from Booligal. “Do you know a chap named
Smith ?” he asked. “Yes, I'm Smith,” I answered, tak-
ing off my collar and showing- him my name. In less
than a minute there were 150 damfools crowded
round and more coining along- everywhere. Things
must be dull in Sydney. Booligal don’t get excited
over little things like that.
“The Old Soldier” : I had a good deal of
experience with gun and baggage elephants, and I
don’t think much of them. The greatest load an
Indian jumbo was ever expected to carry on bis
back was 9 to 10 cwt. In draught, two elephants
would pull a 24-pounder S.B. gun, weighing some 41
tons, on the road ; but they would not be allowed to
take it under fire, because at the first shot they
would wheel and bolt to the rear, running- over
anything that got in their way. So, before coming-
near an enemy, elephants were always unhooked,
and a team of bullocks yoked up ip their stead.
A team of eight horses or 16 bullocks easily man-
aged our 24-pr.
V * •* *
“Betty”: When dad bought the now
planner he -had the neighbors in from miles
around to hear Mary play it. As she tore into the
instrument dad kept turning proudly to the audi-
ence, saying: “Ain’t she a marvel? Ain’t she a
wonder? Jever see the like?” Then as the blushing
musician pursued herself from one end of the instru-
ment to the other he roared: “Look at that 1 Why,
the; d—d pianner ain’t long enough for her!”
“Musketoon”: While I’m on the job I’ll
give you another deadly trap for mice. Get a kero-
sene tin and half fill with water. Sprinkle a fail-
layer-of chaff, bran, and a little bit of cheese gratings
on top. The chaff makes the surface of the lot
appear solid and dry, and the mouse jumping aboard
goes right through the layer into the water and the
trap is ready for the next item on the programme.
If the ground is not too hard sink the tin so that
the top is flush with the ground. Thousands
of mice are caught about the wheat-stacks in Vic-
toria this way.
THE OVERDUE DELIVERER.
HIS BETTER HALF: “ Fancy! Here's a man in England killed three wives. Huh! I’d
like to see the man that would kill me.”
HIM (sotto voce ): "So should I.”
THE SKITE.
BROWN : "That chap Smith is the biggest shite I know.”
JONES : "Go on, is he?”
BBOWN : "Yes! I can’t ever tell him about something Eve done without him telling me
he's done exactly the same thing.”
“Melos”: Pass out “Yammrs” sapling
(B. 12/4/’l7) and inspect this tree-trunk. It was
a hooded-gum, drawn to Constable’s Wharf, Bellin-
ger River (N.'S.W.), lately, and measured 90 feet
from the ground to the first limb. When felled, 12ft.
was butted off and the balance cut four logs. 16ft. x
16ft. 9im, 20ft. x 14ft. 2in., 16ft. x 14ft." 2in. and
14ft. x 13ft. 6in. After deducting a pipe averaging
-14 in. the sticks will cut about 9000 super feet, or
enough to build any ordinary five-roomed cottage.
“Eddyson”: Here is a subject for an
“Aboriginal!ties” symposium. Let us have a Kid
Stakes competition. If my experience of the Aus-
tralian bush and its wild and woolly inhabitants is
of any value at all, the piquant .and pleasing process
of “kidding” is the most popular form of entertain-
ment practised in our country places. To the bush-
men proper and the dwellers in lopsided, goat-
haunted townships and more desolate places kidding
is the truest form of wit, and the highest, if not
the only, kind of humor. . The men kid each other
■with labored deliberation, and invariably where
seven men are assembled there is a combination of
six to systematically and interminably kid the odd
man out. A form of kidding universally practised
in the Backblocks is to play upon some little, harm-
less vanity in the victim, and pull his leg everlast-
ingly. Nobody ever seems to weary of the business:
it is always fresh and savory, and every little mani-
festation of its effect on- the kidded is conveyed for
miles and miles, and minutely discussed-with relish.
In one district I frequented years ago a hapless
young spud-farmer was the subject of.a great kidding
bee, the ramifications of which extended over two-
thirds of the Wimmera. The potato-breeder was
one, Keeting, and the false doctrine promulgated by
all his friends and acquaintances was that this harm-
less innocent was a poet of transcendent genius. The
feeble, bumble-footed, ham-strung verses of the poet
Keeting were recited at all local gatherings; praises
of the sweet singer of Boodleoop were on every lip.
All strangers arriving at Boodleoop were immediately
introduced to the Boodleoop poet,, and were expected
to outdo Boodleoop’s hig'h opinions of its spot bard
and chatter a rhyme or two from his pen. This kid
was an enormous success. Keeting became a nuisance
to 80 Australian editors. He poured out leagues and
leagues of rhymes, and the Boodleoop Keeting
Society, a literary association formed to foster the
poet and spread appreciation and understanding of
his works, financed their postage to papers all over
the earth. This society even paid for the publica-
tion of a small collection of Keeting’s poems in
book form, and sent review copies to every editor
in Australia. The reception Keeting's verses won
outside Boodleoop was ascribed fo vicious and uncon-
scionable jealousy, and Boodleoop gave the poet a
consolation banquet, after which he recited his own
rhymes all night. Boodleoop’s tri-weekly, the
Baxx hr, printed a Keeting poem in every issue,
because everybody in Boodleoop wanted to read
Keeting’s poems, and complained only when the
sample was not as bad as it possibly could be. The
great Keeting Kid Stakes might have been going on
to this day, but Keeting contracted typhoid and
died ar the summit of his glory. In point of fact
the kid does continue, for on the headstone of Henry
William Horace Keeting are these two lines of his
own:—•
“Write on my grave when wattles droop:
‘He was the poet of Boodleoop.’ ”
(Continued on page 24.1
THE BOOBEROI CUP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the dust-storms come a-swirling, and the
billabongs go dry,
And the roly-polies blow across the plains;
When the station tanks are failing, and the sheep
begin to die,
And lie rotting ’mid the burrs along the drains;
When the cheque-proud shearers’ mounts are eating
“post hay” at the pub,
And the drovers wallow in fermented joy;
When you cannot find a swagman on the stock
routes through the scrub,
They hold the races out at Booberoi.
The course is not quite perfect. Truth to tell, it’s
rather rough
1 n the cracked and sun-baked gilgais at the top ;
All the furlong posts are saplings, and they’re
suitable enough,
’Though they’re difficult to see unless you stop.
If they haven’t got a grandstand like Condobolin
boasts about,
And the judge’s box is just an empty tub,
You can see each start and finish, and then turn
around and “shout,”
For you never leave the front door of the pub.
We had just cut out at Roto,' and had struck
Euabalong,
We were mates that shearing, Jimmy Hunt and me, -
And we had a speedy pony that we’d bought at
Hunthawong,
It could do an outback mile in fifty-three.
There they told us of the races, and about the
Station Cup,
That Lyn Ilaley, after coaxing, had supplied,
So we had another pint or two and chucked the
saddles up,
We were certain of the double if we tried.
On the morning of the races there were folk from
every part
Who’d gathered there to cheer their favorites in,
With everyi sort of outfit, horse and bike, and car
and cart,
And a thousand dogs that raised a frightful din.
And the drinking started early, for, the judge he
gave a lead,
And the stewards, too, helped stow the grog away,
So that when they ran the Flying, and we won it
with The Weed,
Nearly everyone was full or getting gay.
But the Cup was our objective, and it looked a .
moral cert., *
There was nothing on the track we couldn’t beat ;
And when the betting opened I’d have laid my only
shirt
That. The AVeed would lead them homeward by a
street;
But instead of taking odds about this galloper of
ours,
The bookies offered threes and fives and eights,
While the judge and the committee backed a horse
of Paddy Power’s
That had no hope against us at the weights.
While they laid the odds in five pound-notes, The
Weed still lengthened out.
Says Jim, “These chaps are putting up a joke.
This here betting looks suspicious!” And I, too,
begian to doubt,
But I planked another tenner on our moke.
M hen the field was getting ready, Jim climbed on
the pony’s back—•
As a jockey he was always reckoned smart —
So I says: “You go like blazes, keep the middle of
the track,
You’ll be home and dried before the others start.”
It was just as I expected. Jim had thirty lengths
to spare,
And I smiled to think how easy he had won;
But the last horse wasn’t home when cries of “Pro-
test” rent the air,
And even then I thought ’twas only fun.
There was no mistake, however, for they said Jim
cut the course,
And all the jockeys swore that this was true;
It completely knocked me sideways, for they testified •
in force,
And our chances for the Cup looked very blue.
Then it dawned on me to tell them that if Jim had
cut a post,
Ihere’d be tracks to show where he had gone inside,
So I asked that they be pointed out, I had the
crowd on toast,
’Twas the simplest way the protest to decide.
Then the judge became excited, and he called the
stewards in,
And they whispered all together for a while;
When he said: “All right, we'll show you, but don’t
think you’re going to win,
For the tracks are at the post just near the mile.”
Now, they’d readied Paddy Foley, who was acting
clerk-of-course,
To' gallop round this post and make some tracks,
So Paddy, full of whisky, rushed and mounted on his
horse,
\\ hilc the rest of us were saddling up our hacks.'
AVhen we reached the post in question, we could see,
as clear as day,
The imprint plain of hoofs upon the ground,
But the jucfge and the committee stared in horrified
dismay,
For Pat had gone and raced the w-rong nay round.
And now along- the Lachlan when the bailey grass is
dry,
And tlie toiling- wool-teams struggle through the
lanes,
AVhen the wild black swans are winging coastward
through the evening sky,
And the desert peas are crimsoning the plains ;
AVhen the shearers and .the shed-hands tramp away
when shearing ends,
The grizzled veteran and the beardless boy
They tell the story over by the campfires in the
bends
Of how we won the Cup at Booberoi.
N.S.W.
GORDON BENNETT.


CLd
mm
5^
p- 1
~7<c
A
JO,'-*
Ml
I
■ r
/'
“Orient”
TWEED
OVERCOAT
45|-
at
David Jones'
“Orient” Overcoats are made
from carefully-selected Irish and
Scotch Tweeds in our own work-
rooms, where careful supervision
is exercised over every detail.
Warm and durable; distinctive in
appearance, and characteristic of
David Jones’ fixed policy of com-
bining dependability with sound
value.
All Men's Sizes . . 45/-
We Pay Carriage.
David Jones Ltd.
OPP. G.P.O. SYDN EY.
m
m
m m
:y
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
DADDY 5 „
home \ r
VERY honest foreign manu-
facturer will admit that.
Chocolates properly made
in Australia must be superior
to any they can send here.
We admit that Chocolates
made in London for sale in
London must be better than
any we could send there.
If we made our Chocolates
for export, we would need to
use preservative,- and w r e should
have to delete several ingredi-
ents highly essential in first-
grade Confectionery.
When we receive your order
for a box of Chocolates we
despatch the goods on the same
day that. they are made.
Our Confectionery contains
absolutely no preservative.
Surely then our claim that our
Chocolates are superior to any
other that could possibly be
imported is no exaggeration.
Packed only in Red Boxes.
Post free to any address in
Australia.
Price 3/-, 5/-, 6/6, 10/6,
15/-, 25/-
162 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Leviathan Tailoring
has been in Public Favor for 65 years.
mm
m.
■ ■
MS j
We tailor Suits for
hundreds of men
whom we never see
—to the measure-
ments they give us
on our practical,
simple ho me-
m e a s u r e in' ent
Chart and the
invariable result is
Complete
Satisfaction.
Write now for
Free
Patterns
of the new
WINTER SUITINGS,
631-, 751-, 901-, 1051- to 147/-
together with Tape and Home-Measurement Chart.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
ASK FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
The LEVIATHAN
MELBOURNE.
7
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/- each
BRITISH-MADE
y| Records 4J
12=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5/-each
borne Fine Examples of Colombia Records
on Sale at all First Class Music Dealers.
LIGHT BLUE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch, dotible-sided, 6/- each, _
Bv SIR THOMAS BEECHAM, conducting the BEECHAM SYMPHON Y
ORCHESTRA.
11001 -j “The Magic Flute Overture.—ln two parts V'T^ehniPowskv)'
) Symphony Pathetique—2nd Movement ( IscbaikOWSky).
1,1016 j Symphony Patlietique—3rd Movement nloMonod
T , n , ft ( Minuet de “Manon” (Strauss)
11020 ) “ The Rose Cava | ier ” Waltz /«*
11040 -j “I’Ooiseau de Feu”—Suite from Ballet —Two parts (Stia\ insKj ).
By SIR HENRY J. WOOD, conducting his ORCHESTRA.
i mne 1 Shepherd’s Hey, No. 16 (Percy A. Gramgei).
HO O6 ( Symphony No. 4 (111): Scherzo ( Tscbaikow sky).
t 1(1,5 ( “Tristan .and-Isolde” —Prelude (\ta o neii.
1 y,wlis [ “Tristran and Isolde” —Isolde’s love Song ”
T1 „ 01 ( Grand March, “Tannhauser”
11021 ] “Coriolan” Overture in “C” Minor '
_ ( Espana Rhapsody for Orchestra • ;
11024 i i r i s h Tune from County Derry U eicj A. Giamgei).
j The Ride of the Valkyries, from “The Valkyries” ■ • Oyagner).
11027 j The g on g „f the Rhine Daughters, from “The Twilight of the ” o< ( Yy ~gn el. )
_ i„oq f Shepherd Fennel’s Dance (H- Balfour GardUieV).
11033 | xraume (Dreams) (udgn-i..
By VLADIMIR DE PACHMANN (Pianoforte).
_ j Prelude, Op. 28, No. 24, in “D” Minor .' - •
11009 | (impromptu, Op. 29, in “A” Flat (Chopin).
( (a) Etude, Op. 25, No. 3, in “F” Major, (b) Prelude, Op. 28,
11010 No. 16, in “B” Flat Minor \'
( Polonaise —Cadenza niwAn,, '
(Nocturne in “E” Flat, Op. 9, No. 2 (Chopin).
11014 | ( Mazurka, Op. 67, No. 4. (b) Prelude, Op. 28, No. 23 ~
By the LONDON STRING QUARTETTE.
. (Andante from Quartette in “G” Minor, Op. 10 (Debussy).
11004 j .yndante Cantahile. Quartette, Op. 11 ( JLscbaikowsky).
( An Irish Melody—The londonderry Air (Frank Bridge).
11019 j Tiiotiy on the Shore —Irish Reel (Percy Grainger).
11031 { Slave Quartette, Op. 26. (a) Interindium, (b) Alla Mazurka .. (Glazounow).
11013 ( Mozart Quartette, No. 14. (a) Allegro, (b) Andante (Mozart).
QUARTETTE and TRIO.
1,1015-
Rigoletto: Quartette, “Fairest Daughter of the Graces” (Verdi)
In English, by Rosjna Buckman, Edith Clegg, Maurice D’Oisley and
Frederick Austin (with Orchestra).
Faust: Trio (Prison Scene), “Holy Angels in Heaven Blest” .... (Gounodi
In English, by Rosina Buckman, Maurice D'Oisly, and Frederick
Ranalow (with Orchestra).
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SYDNEY’, N.S.W.—Grafonola. Etd.. Baking House, liawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Dinsdale's Proprietary, Etd.. 209 Swanston St.
BRISBANE. Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE. s.A.—Cornell. Etd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. IV.A.—H. K. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, X.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan. Ltd.. Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z —Bannatyne & Hunter, Etd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, I.td.. 24,2 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt. Etd. ■
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
MEGGITT’S
IJNSEED oiLMEAt
AEG
PAR
s-
%
r
<e
7!
/
V
a
\
%5
u 1 /'
*, <s
\
A >
JO 1
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
Pigs, calves, heifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on a daily ration of linseed-oil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the butter-fat test by One
Point.
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
carry away all the prizes. Mr. H. McD. Livingstone,
Rosehill Farm, Kingaroy, at the 1916 show won
seven first prizes with a pen of calves and won the
three butter-fat tests with a pair of Meggitt Linseed-
oil meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD.,
y
)
Hr
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers, Parramatta, N. S. Wales.
“Hay”: I was well acquainted with
Centralia long before the Speneer-Gillen trip and
knew many of the ways and lingos of the various
abo. tribes, but never heard of a ban of silence
being imposed on women as described by “D.D.”
(B. 12/4/’l7). In my opinion it would have been
impossible for any of them to preserve silence for
a day, much less 25 years. By the way, “D.D.”
does not mention why this penalty, if it existed, was
imposed. One peculiarity of theirs was silence
about the dead. Centralian abos. fear the spirits of
the departed; They are believers in the trans-
migration of souls and carefully avoid mentioning a
deceased Binghi’s name for fear he will return to
camp in some other form and do them harm. After
the burial ceremony nothing seems to disturb and
annoy black brother more than hearing the deceased
alluded to by a heedless white fellow. In this
regard, certainly, they all were voluntarily dumb.
* * * *
“8.H.”: “Goathead” (B. 5/4/’l7) gives
us one to go on with. A pal of his, he says, in
one day snigged dunnage and spread it, then pulled
COO bales of wool*out of a stack and stood them
end-up on the logs with an air-space between. The
most convenient dunnage anyone can use for the
above job is ordinary sft. Bin. fencing posts; and
as two of these placed parallel will just take two
bales of wool, leaving an air-space between, you
want no algebra to calculate that it will take 600
posts spread out over the landscape to accommodate
the aforementioned parcel of wool. Now, for one
man to catch a gee and snig that pile of lumber from
any distance, be it 20 yards or 20 chains, is a day’s
work that would make an I.W.W. advocate gnash his
teeth. Smith knocks off for breakfast. He then
bores into the 90-ton stack of sheep-whiskers, pulls
it down and sets it up again, high and dry, by dark.
If he had taken an average of only two minutes to
deal with each bale, including the snigging and
spreading, of course it would have eaten up 20
hours. Long day, eh?
*-* * *
“Bung”: When you are measuring up
Australia’s forest giants don’t miss those that grow
thickly in the valleys of Dromedary Mountain,
South Coast (N.S.W.). One spotted gum from there
provided the keel of the steamship Wee Clyde, at
present trading between Sydney and Bermagui. The
splinter was 68ft. long, 18 by 24 inches, with a
perfectly straight grain, knotless, and free from
gumcracks, sap or heart. It had a 3Rt. curve for
the ship’s prow-seating, at one end, and this was
not • from any bend in the tree, but was carved
from the solid half-trunk. Making allowance for
sap and heart the weed must have been at least Bft.
in diameter at the butt.
* * * *
“X.Y.”: “Bung” asks (B. 19/4/’l7) for
information concerning the firing of green or damp
hay, and why fodder in the same moist condition
does not fire when stored in a silo. The explana-
tion is that in the latter case the oxygen of the
air, is almost entirely excluded. When green or
damp vegetable matter is heaped together it under-
goes a kind of fermentation, rapidly absorbing
oxygen from the atmosphere, the temperature of
the mass rising in proportion to the extent of such
absorption. If the material be strongly compressed,
or the air be otherwise excluded, a degree of fer-
mentation, with evolution of heat, still takes place
owing to the presence of oxygen in the material
itself, but this to a much less extent. The writer
has seen hay—lucerne, oaten and other —stacked in
ill sorts of conditions, and has found the interiors
GIFT DAY.
“’ Ere, you be quiet, or I’ll give you to the
gentleman to take ’ome!”
of some of the stacks reduced to a material resem-
bling ashes (like the fire-fang of stable manure
heaps), but has never known one to actually burst
into flame. Why stack green or wet material ? You
cannot make hay of it. My experience has been that
oaten or wheaten hay when sheafed by the reaper
and binder, and properly • cured in the field, heats
less than when mown, raked and cocked, the reason
being that the sheafed stuff can be packed more
elostfiy in the stack, and the air is thus, to a large
extent, excluded. .
“W.H.R.”: A similar but more humane
method of treating jibbers than “Pick’s” barbed-wire
idea (B. 12/4/’l7) is with the hair rope. This is
of soft hemp with short lengths of horsehair woven
into it. In use it is passed under the neddy’s tail
and fastened to the shafts. When he starts to back
he usually thinks better of it. This is part of a
system of breaking introduced into England by an
Australian horsetamer. Young colts are taught to
follow a lead by having the rope put under their
tail and attached in front to the halter.
DOUBTFUL.
ORDERLY OFFICER (investigating complaint) : “H’m, tastes a bit thin and greasy—
otherwise not bad soup.”
PRIVATE: “ Yessir, that’s what I thought. But cook says it’s tea.”
“W.D.”: Will somebody of experience in
the matter tell me what to do for my horses, which,
after having a meal, will leave the stall and eat
their own droppings ? They are well fed on grain
(cracked and crushed), bran and chaff; they are
in a large yard bare of grass; they are fed regu-
larly three times each day. I keep the yard as clean
as possible, forking it out daily, but while I’m away
they get up to this new fad. •
* * * *
“Six and Eight” .: In B. 12/4/’l7 the state-
ment that the venom of tiger-snakes is four times
stronger than that of the cobra is charac-
terised by “Montalex” as silly. Well, in
“Animals of Australia,” by Lucas and Le
Souef,' the tiger-snake is described as one .of
the deadliest of Australian snakes, the venom,
the authors assert, being considerably more
potent than that of the cobra. The reasons
they give for the bite of the cobra being
more deadly than that of Australian snakes
are: (1) the quantity of venom voided at one
time by Australian snakes is insignificant
compared with the amount voided by the
cobra ; (2) -the fangs of Australian venomous
snakes are not nearly so long as thoses of
the cobra and consequently have less chance
of penetrating a vein, an injection there
being at least 10 times as deadly as a mere
sub-cutaneous injection; (3) because the
points of the fangs of Australian snakes are
solid for a quarter of their length, so that
the poison is not conducted to the full length,
of the fang. In Australian snakes the poison
when ejected from the gland runs down a
groove on the outside of the fangs, and an
ordinary sock or the cloth of trousers will
suuiY ui me uiuin ui uuusers win
usually be quite sufficient to prevent the poison
entering, the wound.
* » * *
“Margot”: Agree with “Ulooloo” (B.
12/4/’l7) that a snake is not harmless when its
back is fractured. The other day I met a son of
Satan 6ft. long, and my mate broke his spinal
column, whilst I vainly tried to hold the dogs
back. The reptile made several springs at the
animals, narrowly missing them. His body from the
break to the tail seemed paralysed, but his business
end was in good going order and condition.
* * * *
“Lex”: At a recent camp in Central
Queensland we discovered a sure cure for sand-fly
bites. Take an ordinary , bottle of beer, drink the
contents and clean the bottle. (If you haven’t beer
a bottle of whisky will do.) Then fill it with water
and add about two tablespoons of boracic acid.
When applied this not only relieves the pain but
stops the bites from turning into sores.
“H.V.E.”: Unnatural history from John
Foster Fraser’s “Australia, the Making of a Nation”:
“The bower-bird makes its' nest a sort of passage
and then decorates it with any bright articles it
may find.” The facts are that the bird builds an
open nest t of twigs lined with root fibres, sometimes
a quarter-mile or more distant from the bower,
which is used purely for canoodling and recreative
purposes. In its choice of “bright articles” the
satin-bower-bird confines itself almost entirely to
objects of a blue shade, such as blue-bags (10 of
which I found about one bower), scraps of blue
glass and paper, blue parrot feathers and blue
flowers.
* * * ' *
“H.V.E.”: Westralia possesses the most
peculiar example of the marsupial tribe, viz., the
nail-tailed kangaroo, sometimes called wallaby. The
tail ends in a sharp horny spine, like that which
rounds off the death-adder, but neither beast uses
this appendage as a means of offence. The death-
adder uses its stiletto to anchor with when about to
bite, or as an aid to its progress in rough country,
and the nail-tailed kangaroo probably follows suit.
This marsupial is found in the vicinity of the pearl-
ing grounds, and in some quarters is (or was) so
numerous as to afford a supply of fresh meat for the
Jap and Malay divers. Yet a live example is said to
be worth £5 at any zoo.
* * * *
“XY.”: In the coast districts of N. S.
Wales sheafed hay should be stooked as soon as
possible after the machine delivers it. This stook-
ing is the vital operation in successful hay-curing
in damp climates. It is done by two men (or
boys), who commence by selecting a high and
dry site. They then pick out the two longest and
stoutest sheaves, which they set aside as caps. Each
operator then picks up two sheaves of the next-
largest size, and these are placed on the selected
site by both men at the same time. The butts of
the sheaves are lightly bumped on the ground to
give them a firm stand. They are straddled, so as
to leave an air-space in the centre, and the pair
thus held by each man is inclined towards the pair
held by the neighbor. This results in a pile of
four well-placed sheaves. The two operators then
pick up two more pairs, which they place at the
rear of the first pairs. We have now eight well-
placed sheaves in the stook, and it only remains to
cap, or thatch, them. To do this each operator
takes up one of the cap sheaves, and by bumping it
on the ground he makes the base oblique instead of
square. That is, it would appear as a mitre-cut
instead of a square-cut base. He then inserts both
hands into the sheaf, below the band, on the side
on which the band is nearer to the sloping base,
holding the sheaf against his chest meanwhile. With
his two hands thus inserted he opens out the sheaf
into the shape of a hollow fan and places it on the
stook, standing astride of his end of the stook.
His mate does the same from the other end of the
stook, and the leading hand of the pair then hands
his mate a wisp from each side of his cap sheaf
which the other crosses and binds, thus securing
not only the caps but the heads of the sheaves
below. While this tie is being made the leading
hand presses the sloping bases of the caps together,
with the result that a sharp high-pitched roof ,is
formed which will defy all ordinary rain-storms,
while the hay actually cures more rapidly than if
left on the ground. Built thus the stooks will defy
ordinary high winds, as well as rain. Twenty
gores of oaten hay, thus stooked, were fit for the
stack when heavy daily thunderstorms set in, and
this weather lasted for two months. Much wind
attended the storms. Very few of the stooks were
blown down. At the end of the time stated, it
was decided to burn the hay, in order to clear
the ground. When the stooks were opened it was
found that the hay was absolutely undamaged, and
that the discoloration caused by the weather only
extended to the outside straws.
“Barcoo”: “Bill R.” (B. 5/4/’l7) is
talking through his whiskers when he states that
the koala, though gentle and docile, will live only
in the freedom of the bush. As a matter of fact, in
captivity Lindsay’s pals will live happy and con-
tented for years. One has been browsing in my
back yard at Rockhampton (Q.) for the last 12
years, though he is now more disagreeably perfumed
than when in the “Teddy” portion of his existence.
Death in. the early stages of captivity is caused by
the ratty idea of so many people that everything
lives on bread. Fed to the young koala that fodder
means certain death quickly.
THE OMNISCIENCE OF THE LAW.
“Your gin die on Tuesday, eh, Jimmy? How
old was she?"
“Same age belongit to me."
“But how old are you?”
“Same age belongit to her."
“ Yairs, of course. But how old are you?”
"I dunno. You ask Missa Frost, the police-
man—he know.”
THE CIRCLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now “Mulga” he told me a truthful tale that some-
one told to him;
The someone, as far as I could learn, was a bloke
, by the name of Jim;
And Jim he got the tale, it seems, from a chap at
Down-and-Out;
And the chap derived the story from an English
rouseabout.
The rouseabout he got the yarn from Wilson at
The Bore;
And Wilson had it told to him by the keeper of
the store ;
The storeman heard the yarn from Mac, who hoofed
from Piker's pub,
And swapped it plus some adjectives for a day’s
supply of grub.
Now Mae had pinched the tale from Crane, who
came from Broken Hill;
And Crane had heard it from the lips of a pirate
labelled Bill; p
The latter got the tale from Brown, who was fencing
down the crick ;
And Brown had heard the story from a bloke called
“Murdering Mick.”
Murdering Mick had heard it told by the driver
of the mail;
And from McCluskey, droving sheep, the driver
learned the tale;
And McCluskey heard the yarn from me in a season
long gone by;
’Twas never much of a yarn at best —besides, ’tuas
a blanky lie!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


DUNLOPKELLY
SOLID RUBBER-
A
-fU*
\i>'s
7
VEHICLE
bTYRES
absorb all
noise and
vibration,
double the
life of your
vehicle, and
last for
years. Fit-
ted from
£5 and
upwards.
Price List Posted
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States & M.Z j
Obtainable
all
Boot.
■Stores
Specify
Dunlop
Brand'
'3©
© © ©
DUNLOP
RUBBER
HEELS
rtygyjhkjh
Easy &
Comfortable
WalKing.
Dunlop Rubber Co.-alDt'ates&NZ
c
<s>
r)
i
»
*
A
\
06
<3®
■*s°
i
%
X
£H
m
)1''!!!",!!
f
X
%
W
W.
<M
1
5
/
Xi
®t;
itfl
Mlli
Mil
CHEERING THEM HOME
won’t provide the permanent work they are entitled to!
MOTORISTS
have you given this a thought ? Are you using Australian
DUNLOPS
the equal of any tyre in the world for value and service,
and thereby assisting to provide employment for our
Returned Soldiers. YOU GAIN NOTHING by using
imported tyres—neither in Service or Cost of Running.
When you select DUNLOPS you save considerably in
cost followed by tyre service unsurpassed by any im-
ported cover. Your money stays in the Country, pays
wages, and is kept in circulation to YOUR DIRECT
BENEFIT. Proof of Dunlop Service can be had from
half the Motorists in Australia. They are not using
DUNLOPS “out of sentiment,” but because it pays
The White Tread Dunlop ensures tyre satisfaction, plus
lower running cost. WHY NOT BENEFIT BY
USING THEM?
NO VACANCIES
PLANT NOT WORKING
FULL CAPACITY
rtygyjhkjh
AH the
leading: Mines
and Workshops
in this Country use
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
Experience having proved that our
Belt*, Hoses, Packings, etc., hove no
equal for Quality and Price.
Samples 6c Tenders Submitted.
Lists on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney.
Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane
Wellington. Christchurc'
rtygyjhkjh
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES and N.Z.
I
*7 BLk.
DUNLOP
CYCLE
TYRES
are only genuine
when Cover
and Tube bear
this or
No other make of Tyre frivea i
the wear and satisfaction \
V* that a “Dunlop” does.
y>
J DUNLOP RUBBER CO..
AH States and N.Z.


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BES F
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, »3 it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST— a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
•vJ' ITTiL’r?
0/
r-
<s
Heame s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
7Z
97
-j
14.
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices—
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
) C Kir>tGilfcr-Vl , T*+-*.
•‘Peg o' My I leart” Algood, while packing
for Brisbane, received a cable to say Inn-
favorite brother had been killed in 1 ranee.
George Mnsgrove was reported to have
made £40,000 out of his luckiest speculation
—"The Belle of New York.” it was more
than its author, 0. M. S. McLellau, left
behind him. llis estate has just cut up for
£22,Kid. When he wasn’t play-writing
McLellau was mostly editor of Tow.v
Topics, of N’York.
••0.K.”: The Akgus looked a long way
back to find a prototype for Lilian Tucker,
of “Very Good Eddie.” It described her as
“a handsome giri, whose appearance and
style old playgoers at once associated with
Miss Marion Ilood, of the famous Leslie
and Barren days.” It is 25 years since
Marion Hood was in Australia, and then
she didn't come with Nellie Barren and
Leslie, but with the subsequent Gaiety co.
that Mnsgrove imported. Moreover, Lilian
Tucker isn't very suggestive 6f the well-
preserved Marion, who was a middle-aged
woman when Melbourne saw her. The Taits’
leading lady has a greater resemblance to
Lily Elsie, the original Merry Widow. By
the way, she plays the character of Elsie
Lilly, which is getting near it.
“Stargazer”: The conspicuous stupidity
in shows like “Very Good Eddie” is the
effort to introduce a serious love interest.
The comparatively lucid hero bounds on and
occupies time and attention explaining the
state of his affections towards the nearly-
reasonable heroine in a manner that suggests
the ardor of a cucumber for a spud. The
semi-sane heroine also dilates on her inner-
most feelings with regard to the almost-pos-
sible hero, as the spud might to the cucum-
ber. Then both are unceremoniously rele-
gated to the bin. They may reappear to
carol a plaintive lay, but for all that their
personal fortunes matter to the general
diversion they might as well never have been
born. In a show in which everything else
is bizzare a pair of serious lovers are as
much at home as a Carmelite procession at
a cabaret. They jolt the whole entertain-
ment out of gear every time they appear,
and are endured only because audiences have
become so egregiously polite nowanights that
they hesitate to cast open derision even on
performers who deliberately outrage their
sense of fitness.
More explorations into the queer civilisa-
tion of the Australian :—•
Muriel Shm- says the gallery girl is quite an
institution in Sydney and Melbourne. Australian
managers pav more attention to the gallery than
English and American ones do. They allot certain
blocks of seats to the girls, who take a very keen
interest in the performance. “If they like you they
cheer and applaud and crowd round the stage-door
after the play is over. But if they dislike an actor
he may as well quit. They give him the bird—a
peculiar sort of whistle —-and boo him persistently.”
Your late visitor says that at a benefit performance
she saw a couple of actors assailed from the gal-
lery in this way, and it was “really a most distress-
ing spectacle.”
“Masetto” : I can travel the same path a
good way with “E.F.” (B. 12/4/T7) in
praise of tenor Cappelli, but stop suddenly
when lie rates Dani below our present visi-
tor. Dani’s voice was not hard at all, and
he had a greater range than Cappelli. The
Gonsalez orchestra played to a low pitch
for a start, and on top of that Cappelli had
most of his principal solos transposed down
a half or a full tone. I am not blaming
Cappelli for doing this, but Dani sang all
liis in the original. The high C’s which the
sapient critics in the daily press credited
Cappelli were about B flat. And he will
have to be a lot less theatrical than “E.F.”
says he is before he impresses the opera-
gorged Old World.
“C. Ockney”: I agree with “Fax” (B.
26/4/’l7) that Marie, of “The Marriage of
Kitty,” recalls the Marie who figured in the
Fanny Brough part in “The Whip” (the
actress’s name, by the way, was Illington.
not Illingworth). But. strangely enough,
there is yet another of the same front-name
to” be considered in this connection. This is
Marie Wilton Bancroft, a wonderful come-
dienne of my youth, whose art. as the music-
hall ads. say, was “copied by many, excelled
by none.”
“J.F.H.” (London) : “Zig-zag,” the new
revue at London Hippodrome, has given
Daphne Pollard an excellent chance to
sing and dance, and she does both so well
that she adds to the credit and renown of
the old Australian theatrical family to
which she belongs. Daphne rivals Ivy
Shilling in her astonishing feats of acrobatic
dancing, and she has the added advantages
of an excellent singing voice and a madcap
style of humor. Her “Little Miss Quaint.”
illustrated with uncanny spookery and elec-
tric trimmings, is far and away the best
and most successful song in the revue.
“T. 0.1.”: “Playbird’s” Ballarat playbill
(B. 26/4/T7) is surely a fake. Lola Montez
left Australia via Sydney in 1850. She had
arrived from ’Frisco late in 1855. and in six-
months’ time had played herself out of Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo and Gee-
long. With her leading man, Folland, she
then left Newcastle (N.S.W.) in the Jane
Falkenberg for San Francisco. According
to one account Folland was lost overboard
before the ship reached Honolulu; another
account—l believe it to be the correct one —
was that he suicided before reaching the
Golden Gate.
Business, Robbery, etc
"Red Tape, Jim.”: The bosses in N. S.
Wales Public Service are getting rattled over
the girl clerk business. They lmte what our
chief calls the “feminine element.” and most
of them have managed to keep Miss Skirtau-
blouse'at bay except at the typewriter; but
here’s trouble. Just before the election
Willie Holman sidled up to the temporary
male clerk with 325. a day, but recipients
had hardly finished giving three cheers when
a knock came to the door. It was the Pub-
lic Service Board that had called round to
make these few remarks to the chief: (3)
the temporary male clerk at 12s. is expen-
sive; (2) the temporary female clerk is
cheap; (3) think it over. As I write this
there are 327 flappers on the stairs with
references from Snooks’s Business College
waiting for the early doors to open.
* * * *
“Te Bnbarantiko”: In spite of all the
blather about the debt we owe him and
never can discharge, Billjim, back with a few
pounds of deferred pay to draw, seems to
he regarded as fair game by everybody with
a gold-brick. Frequent ads. appear in the
dailies offering returned soldiers plantation
overseers’ jobs in the sickliest Pacific Island
groups where feiv men can retain their health
for more than a year, and some die. Young
men, strong and sound in body, have gone
to those jobs only to return in a very short
time, sick with fever, loneliness and dis-
appointment. The pay—from £lO per
month, quarters supplied—looks good to the
newelmm who is cheerful about “finding
himself” until he discovers that his food will
cost him not less than £6 a month. The
frequency with which the same ads. appear
is indication enough of the quality of the
jobs and what men think of them.
“Saint" : Man, they throw an awful lot
of siller about in Otago (M.L.) ! The
Missus opened a package of oatmeal this
morning and 1 retrieved a coupon from the
top which informed me that upon receipt ol
111) more, with my name and address, and
Is. in stamps. I would be rewarded with a
free copy of “our 11)1 T Art Calendar —a
reproduction of a hand-painted picture in-
real water colors, mounted on the most expen-
sive of art mounts, with a silk bow hanger."
Since the parritch costs Is. (id. a package,
I'd have to spend £!> before l could rush
them with my 111 penny stamps. What
makes them -so reckless?
“Sugitrloaf" : If enough loan money ever
comes along to finish it. the new reservoir
which the Vic. Government building at
Stigarloaf, on the Upper Goulburn, will be
easily the biggest in Australia, and, as things
stand at present, the biggest in the world
except possibly for one or two in U.S.A.
The plans provide for a 180 ft. dam
which will hold up 018,000 acre-feet or
41,000,000,000-odd cubic feet of water, as
against the 33,000,000,000 cubic feet in
Burrinjuck. That would give the present
population of Vic. nearly 200,000 gallons of
water per head. But at the present rate of
going it will take several years to finish the
first stage, which means a wall 135 feet high
to impound 280,000 acre-feet of water.
Whether it goes any higher depends. If it
is ever finished right out it will provide
enough water to irrigate a million acres at
a cost of not much over £1,000,000. At the
ss. an acre-foot charged for the Burrinjuck
water there ought to be good money in it.
And with a head of 180 ft. and such a supply
of water, there ought to be something doing
in the generation of cheap electric energy.
“Croson” : No, “Adelaide," the milch cow
sold at Thebarton (S.A.) market on 23/3/’l7
for £34 is not quite a record. Two Jersey
milkers were sold in the Melbourne cattle-
yards in March (I have not the exact date)
for £05 —-one bringing £2O 10s.. the other
£3B 10s. They were bred by Miss Locking,
who. with her sister, runs a. dairy-farm at
Nutting Ilill, between Oakleigh and Fern
Tree Gully.
“Ilalf-Moon”: Personally I take no count
of black cats or 13 at a table or two at a
beer ; but a story told me the other day by
a Cape York sandahvood-getter seems worth
passing on. After the inter-State boat Yon-
gala was lost he was camped on the shore of
Lloyd's Bay (N.Q.), and a travelling basket
was washed ashore. It contained some male
apparel including a dress-shirt with opal-
links and studs. There was little doubt
where it had come from. The finder offered
the opal set to a friend as a present, but the
friend wasn’t taking any chances'with fate.
Eventually it was traded to a Thursday
Island jeweller who sold it to the engineer of
a boat. The buyer wasn't concerned in the
least about its history. But soon afterwards
he joined the unlucky Koombana and was
lost with her in the Westralian hurricane.
-Good Australian" : A liquor war is being
fought in California for two principles. (11
the abolition of bars and (2i the prevention
of the sale and use of "strong drinks" —
whisky, gin and brandy. The Rominger
Bill, introduced in the* State Parliament,
will shut up saloons and bars everywhere
and will allow the use of beer and wine, but
not of spirits, in hotels, homes, restaurants,
trains, steamers, etc. Therefore the brewers
and winegrowers have joined forces with the
wowsers to push the Bill through. This
union is akin to the co-operation between
the Churches and the bookies against the
totalisator in Australia. But the Bill is
regarded by the fanatics as merely the half-
way house to total prohibition. In a very
few years, it seems to me, the United States
will go "bone dry. - ’ and be a country neither
making nor using alcohol.
“Uckle” : The mice plague in the Central
West and over the Bland country (N.S.W.)
is bad business. Go through a recently-
sown wheat paddock and you will find mil-
lions of tiny burrows. The inmates are
living on the newly-sown seed, and next sea-
son’s harvest will show the effects. The
corn crops' have been chopped to piece# by
the little pests, who climbed up and muti-
lated nearly every cob. Hayricks fairly stink
with mouse, and heaps of grain husks are
kicked out around stacks after tin 1 style of
the earth from rabbit burrows. Chaff-cut-
ters are having a bad time with the
machines getting clogged with mouse-fur and
particles of flesh. Tomato crops are also
much fancied by the visitors, and store-
keepers are wondering whether they can
legitimately add to the selling price of cheese
the loss in that line. The 1.0. d only knows the
extent of the damage in the many big wheat
stacks throughout the west. The contamin-
ating smell will alone spoil thousands of
bushels. The footprints of the marching
millions in the dusty roads are a peculiar
feature, resembling somewhat the marks
caused by a short rain shower on -the dust.
Every idea in trapping is being tried, but the
numbers of the invaders show no signs of
growing less. The animals seem to be an
under-fed species, not much more than half
the size of the ordinary house mouse.
A liquid poison encouraged by Britain's
glorious freetrade was the "special Scotch
whisky” distilled in Berlin. Millions of
gallons of this raw potato spirit went to
careless England during the 10 years before
the war, the labels being so printed that
the patriotic importer could cut off the
words “Produce of Germany'’ without leav-
ing any evidence of his illegal act. Ger-
many seems to have created its army of
chemists for impurely commercial reasons
and the purpose of foreign invasion. Fraudu-
lent manufacture was the soul of their
cheap science, and their experiments were
mainly devoted to the art of concocting
imitation foods and other instruments of
destruction.
*■ * *
“Counter" : I'm in the carpet department.
When the dear little girl rustled in I knew
her for a bride and hoped for a good order
as I juggled cheerfully with the rolls and
squares for 20 minutes. But she was hard
to please, and I began to think she’d want
to see every line in the warehouse. At
last she decided that No. 24 exhibit would
do. though it wasn’t quite what she wanted.
“You can cut me off half a yard,” she
drawled, “though I expect it’s really more
than I shall require. It’s for a pair of
carpet slippers.”
* * * *
The well-bred London visitor never takes
two lumps of sugar in her tea now. A
returned soldier has been telling his Toorak-
ese friends how well off they are with brim-
ming sugar-basins. If you went into a
London shop and asked casually for a
pound of sugar the shopman would call for
help. A buyer of a pound’s worth of goods
may be accommodated with a pound of sugar
at a stiff price; but the favor is great. And
the stuff you get after all the fuss is gener-
ally the treacly brown sugar we once used
for home-made toffee.
-*•*#*
1 “8.D.”: One of the finest timbers ever
grown in Australia is the fast-disappearing
Murray pine. White ants won't eat it, and,
apart from that, it is hard to beat as
material for houselining and all sorts of
indoor work. On the sandy ridges in the
Murray country lots of it have been rooted
out to make room, for wheat. The sand
grows a good crop in a wet season, but in
a dry one it is apt to go over into the next
county once the pines are gone. The fact
that white ants won’t eat the Murray pine
is probably the reason why a paternal Gov-
ernment doesn’t use it up in that country,
but sends imported pine, which the little
dears do like.
«■ * * *
“Bombardier B.” : We’ve renamed all the
little estaminets ; so if you want a drink at
any of the following pubs you can just
enlist and come to France: “The Laun-
derer’s Reunion,” “The Beautiful View of
the Railway Station,” “The Bundle of
Straw.” “The Old Joke” and (about 200
yards down the road) “The New Joke,” and
“The Assurance Against Thirst.” But just
to let the world see that we know our
French, we allow a shell-smashed estaminet.
with only the front wall left intact, to still
do business bravely under the sign “A La
Paix.”
“ILII.B.” : A miller-friend tells me that in
addition to the 6fd. taken off the recent in-
stalment of Is. in connection with the Wheat
Fool, the cocky has to pay s|d. per bushei
for “administration.” Assuming our total crop
to be over 40 million bushels, which I believe
is not far from the mark, this represents
something like £1,000,000 spent on “adminis-
tration.” Is it a stupendous leg-pool or are
they really making a Canberra job of the
Empire’s bread, as well as of its metal and
its munitions?
OUR SPONGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The thirst of our sponges is exceptional, one
sample recently taken from the eastern coast
absorbing 17 times its own weight of liquor with-
out a drip. Another smaller sample absorbed 24
times its own weight.”
A sea-grown item, brown and small,
It weighs perhaps two ounces;
Yet as a willing drinker all
Competitors it trounces.
Three pounds of beer ’twill swallow down,
Or that dead weight of whisky,
And make no bid to paint the town.
Or ape the capricornian clown
With actions free and frisky.
Could Brown into his depths lot flow
Of beer the same' proportion,
He’d hold four ton of booze with no
Abdominal distortion ;
But even when his bursts appal,
And recklessly he plunges,
With half his bulk he couldn't crawl —
Which proves he is no class at all
When ranked among our sponges !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
THE PUZZLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She came out gaily on the Mage,
And threw herself about.
It, seemed she’d presently engage
In some fantastic rout.
tVhen she regained her equipoise
1 fancy that I heard a noise.
Alternately, she worked her jaw,
And threw a pointless prance.
1 looked the programme up, and saw
This was a song and dance.
And now I have a lasting itch —
1 live and wonder which was which !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


c 2
r
S a
BMfll
hi
U I» U
&
1
w
W'-
r
m
Cs>'
nrvT
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
B.T.H. MAZDA comments on a MODERN LABOUR-SAVING DEVICE,
THE G.E. ELECTRIC FLAT IRON!
How do you do ? Here I am again. Permit me the pleasure of drawing your attention to the
little lady in this picture. How happy she looks. Why ? Well, having already installed B. I .H.
Mazda Electric Lamps throughout her home, she now seeks further comfort and economy, so has
purchased a G.E. ELECTRIC FLAT IRON. Ironing day is now transformed—it has become
“ a thing of beauty and a joy forever.” All she has to do when she desires to iron, is just
switch on the current, and the iron becoming heated immediately, remains hot until the ironing
is finished. How convenient! how economical ! how simple !
In these days when domestic servants have all “ folded their tents like the Arabs, and as
silently stolen away,” an electric iron is a necessity. It is even more than that—it is one of
the finest and most indispensable labour-saving devices that a modern housewife can adopt.
For full particulars, prices, etc., just give a call on the ’phone, or drop a line to my address
as stated hereunder.
Australian General-Electric-G?
Wentworth Ay Sydney, Oof Queen & Little Collins St Melbourne.
Representing Thomson Houston, O? JCtd.Hlu&by, Oig/and
% GENERAL ELECTRIC C 9, NEW YORK.USA.


A. Saunders’ Morocco
Leather Motor Bag, newest
style, double handles, 15/6.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6,
20/-, 25/-
THESE GOODS
POSTED FREE.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
Case, fitted with necessary
Morocco Leather Case, 30/-;
30/-. Other styles, 12/6,
25/-
i Dressing
conveniences,
ditto, lady’s,
17/6, 21/-,
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Real
Ebony Hair
Brush, finest-quality
Bristles, 10/6.
Other designs, 13/6,
15/6, 20/-, 25/-
Write for
Illustrated
Catalog—
Post Free.
USEFUL GIFTS
c^.rfaU/Tult’ld
i
A. Saunders’ Gent.’ s Military Brush Set,
real Ebony and best-quality Bristles ; 2 Hair Brushes,
1 Cloth, 1 Hat Brush and Comb. In Morocco Case,
25/-
A. Saunders’ Smoker’s Set, comprising highly-polished,
Brass-mounted Tobacco Jar, Pipe Holder, Hatch Holder and Ash
Tray, Crystal Glass, 25/-. Copper-mounted, 25/-
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Meat Carvers, selected Stag Handles,
hand-forged Sheffield Silver-steel Blade, in Velvet-lined Case, 307-
Other styles, 13/6, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-15 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’
Cloth Brush,
Nickel Silver,
richly embossed,
“Empire” design,
best-quality
Bristles, 10/6.
Write for
Illustrated
Catalog—
Post Free.
A. Saunders’ Writing Folio, straight-grain
Leather, fitted with every convenience, 20/-
Other styles, 12/6, 15/6, 25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Pocket-
book, real Morocco Leather, Silver
Corners and Lock, fitted with Book and
Pencil, 25/-. Others, 8/6, 10/6,
A. Saunders’
Polished Oak, best
Cigar and Cigarette Cabinet,
Nickel Mounts, with partition for Cigars
and Cigarettes, 25/-
n
m
Can
Stop that Husky Croak!
EVAN
Sore Throats quickly
yield to treatment which
removes the cause by killing
the germ.
Evans, Sons, Lescher & Webb, Ltd. London.
If illness threatens
a breach—reinforce
with
NS
v rovrii>
Bovril increases the defensive
forces of the body.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, II- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert AVales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. B'owler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Maunetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries op Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New TricKs with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this srreat work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
i«-BOOKS£LL£R TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. ~mi
Prof. Fowler’s Homan Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter. Writer Up-to-Date;
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang ov
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple, (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
x\ll these r-i ces Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want l*ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my
your cash.
prices with others and save
SHF'Establislied 25 Years.
ONRY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT-IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adaji Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. ' Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete). 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot, 67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
A DEPOSIT OF
17 6
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 lO
£875 O
For War Purposes only,
will purchase a Certificate for
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£ICO
£lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income lax. .
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all infoi illation at -UK nks, State Savings Hanks
and Money Order I’ost, Offices.
Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
tUth March , 1917
Save and benefit yourself.
Pi'MmonwkaljTH Bank of Australia
THE STIFFEST BEARD
can be shaved with the greatest ease if you use
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
You will swear by the “PLUM” once you experience
its keen-cutting, perfectly-tempered edge.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
P&ir in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
£s* <*3*
The “Plum” Razor
An Old and Trusted Friend
with Hundreds of Shavers.
rtygyjhkjh
rtygyjhkjh
MADE by Mr. James Mountney, Cap-
tain of the Gloucester Wagon Works
Miniature Rifle Club, Gloucester, England,
in competition, January, 1916, with
Remjnpon,
CARTRIDGES
{The targets reproduced are the standard
S.M.R.C. "Match” Targets at 25 yards in com-
petition for the Steinitz Cup.)
All ten shots may be covered easily, in the
original targets, with a threepenny piece.
Remington UMC cartridges are used by ex-
pert riflemen everywhere—they have a world-
wide reputation for accuracy and uniformity.
The Remington Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
rtygyjhkjh
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
rtygyjhkjh
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
rtygyjhkjh
AN ARTICLE OF RARE QUALITY
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTATION.
LATEST STYLE
DOROTHY BAG
Postage
Paid
/I
/ m
Postage
Paid
FROM STEWART DAWSON’S-
An excellent Silver-plated Bag,
with Expanding Top; handsomely
lined with Silk.
If you live in the Country write
for
OUR LATEST CATALOGUE,
Sent Post Free.
STEWART
DAWSON’S
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
pavjng h office "fn *th?"H" orUL* mCC^KAMFb'icE C * 87 PITT StFik’ET? SYDXKV.
d, “ i a m, K.c. ;
Samuel Hordern. Esq. H. W. AITEKLY, Secretary.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Manager and Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
Dl§Tlll MUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,560,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay. _
to
«
a m. T,
PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS an i WORKMANSHI
O JL&X Jki.
I 4 »
KMANSHIPk
v
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
rtygyjhkjh
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and
DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Eoftus .Street,
SYDNEY.
rtygyjhkjh
SADDLE EASE
is often times the
one thing needed to (
make your pleasure perfect
you can ensure it if you choose a
BROOKS
OF ALL DEALERS.
PICK “THE PLUMS!
x 4\i
99
rtygyjhkjh
You get a double helping of “Gramophone” quality when
you choose Plum-label Records, for there are TWO
selections on each —one on each side.
You really get TWO Records for the price usually paid
for ONE, and each is the famous “Gramophone” quality
that never falls below standard.
"GRAMOPHONE’
MIM-LABEL RECORDS
10-INCH.
3/6
12-INCH,
5/6
introduce hundreds of famous Band and Orchestral
numbers, vocal successes and humorous items. New
Records added every month.
Be sure to get “GRAMOPHONE” Records, and specify
Plum-label.
Ask your dealer for the latest lists.
Complete lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
" gramophone”
Registered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PUT STREET SYDNEY


HOYT’S PICTURES
X^ fe M UreS i eV6r J night ’ 3 h° ur s—l2.ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoioughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d & 1/- •
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6. ’
Tk Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BODRKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
fit
o®
MBS
Rff
op»3
ssn**»
»es
fc*s
Mi
J*T
n
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Disorders
of Digestion.
Catarrhal, Fermentative, Ulcerative.
Angier’s Emulsion exercises soothing, lubricating,
antifermentative effects throughout the entire digestive
tract. That is why it is so valuable in affections of the
stomach and intestines. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, fermentation,
catarrh, ulceration. It restores tone to all the digestive
functions and it promotes normal healthy action of the
bowels. Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-four years, it has proved its value in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
Send name and address, 4d
ANGIEK CHEMICAL CO., LTD
postage, and
233 Clarence
mention this paper.
St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Those who lead fat oxen should themselves
be fat. Consider William Morris Hughes as
leader of the Fat party. Yet he has some
to consideration as a Pauncheous
The Commonwealth will have nearly
reached the age of discretion when the next
election happens along. The birth certifi-
cate was issued in 1900.
Since the. departure of Gorge Reid Bigjohn
h orrest is the predominating fat man of
Australian politics. In the course of a
recent campaigning appearance the vast ex-
tent of his equator drew from a shrill elector
an admiring: “My word, John, it’s a long
time since you dropped anything on your
toes.” J
SAME THING.
H ECK: “They say that when a man is drown-
ing his past life is brought up before
him.”
PECK: “That happens also when he has a
quarrel with his wife.”
There are no mudless victories these times.
Down _at bedrock it transpires that to
about 715 organisers and party bell-wethers
the real significance of repatriation is that
hope deferred makes the smart trick.
Labor made three Prime Ministers of Aus-
tralia—Watson. Fisher and Hughes—and as
not one of these now carries the old brand,
the Commonwealth can claim to show
something that in the party sense looks
like a record Anyway, this paper
knows of no parallel to such a happen-
ing. And there is the further circumstance
that outside of Bananaland there is not one
of the former State Premier’s who climbed
to where he was on the back of Labor
occupying the old address. Holman, Scad-
den, Vaughan, McGowen—all are in the
other paddock, there has been some
earthquake right enough, and it’s shaken up
dross in more ways than one.
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
HUBBY : “ Humph! I suppose now you’ve
joined this War Economy Society you’ll
he cutting out new dresses?”
SHE: “Oh, dear, no! My dressmaker will
still do that.”
Mi’s. Seery, more or less chivalrously
given a chance by the P.L.L. of seeing what
she could do in the hopeless Robertson
(N.S.W.) electorate, did better than was
anticipated. At the previous election J. A.
Fraser went down by 1500 votes, and that
was at a time when the Labor colors were
flying high, and the party that Cook led was
in general disfavor. In reducing the adverse
majority substantially under less favorable
conditions Mrs. Seery has done sufficiently
well to cause a review of the old judgment
that a woman candidate has no chance; and
that may mean many more feminine
aspirants at the next elections. N. S. Wales
narrowly missed having a lady candidate
amongst the Labor Senate three, also, for
when the election was being made, Mrs.
Kate Dwyer was well up amongst a plethora
of candidates.
Joe Cook explains himself:—
I have changed my mind on many subjects since
the war broke out. I will probably change it
again.
Quite so—especially about W. M. Hughes
and various Sosh tigers now feeding out of
the hand of Fat.
Eddyson” : George Reid’s summing up of
the late Charles Kingston comes to hand per
rugged manliness and good fellow-
ship.” As anything like an adequate esti-
mate of Kingston the Democrat this is just
piffle. I hannen to have a very clear recol-
lection of Kingston on Ried. Another
eminent politician of opposite fiscal views
then co-operating with George had claimed
that Reid was. of an indolent disposition,
and would not be the dominating factor in
the partnership. Kingston wagged a long,
impressive forefinger. “Don’t flatter your-
self, man,” he said. “If George Reid and
you were cast upon a desert island, Reid
would not only convince you that it was
your duty to be cooked; damn it, he would
persuade you to carry the wood for the fire!”
W. H. Burgess, ex-Mayor of Hobart and
member of the State Parliament, w’ent
through scores of elections for the City Coun-
cil and Parliament in his time, and a
remarkable item was that he always headed
tne poll. Burgess used to tell a funny story
about his soldiering. In the early ’Bo’s of
I? St century- a Bill was introduced into
the Tasmanian Parliament for the payment
of fees to officers and men who attended drill.
Burgess was a major, and it meant £l2 a
year to him. Giblin, who was Attorney-
General at the time, told Burgess that he
must resign his seat in the Assembly for
Hobart, as he was drawing Government
money. W.H. replied that £8 was now due
to him, but he would give the Department
a receipt for it, and let it go. But the Go-
vernment would not let him do this; thrust
£8 into his breeches pocket, and then com-
pelled him to resign his seat. Burgess went
to his constituents, told them he had got £8
Government money “under duress,” and the
electors laughed well and sent him back to
the House. The election cost him a good
lot more than £B.
Blundell. Minister for marine affairs in
S. Aus., lately took the unusually sensible
step of cutting a deputation short after the
opening speech. It came to him to press for
a graving-dock at Port Adelaide, and Blun-
dell’s simple reply was that the Government
was already pledged to the work, and had
selected the site and instructed the Harbors
- Board to get on with the plans. So the
deputation was “an absurd waste of time,”
and the curtain was rung down with : “The
Government is going on with the dock.
Gentlemen, the deputation is at an end.” •
I cannot but admire the thoroughness
with which the National party organisation
has covered the ground. My two off-siders,
aged seven and four, received letters from
that body, addressed with the receivers’ full
names, exhorting them to vo>e for the Phew-
sion Senate three. And I have heard of
other such enlightened citizens who received
a similar compliment to their intelligence.
Unfortunately my youngest citizen can’t
read—and here I detect an error of psycho-
logy in this electioneering. That letter
should have been written in pictures,
preferably colored. For lack of this
her vote is lost to those who are now
about to win the war. Now, how and where
did the wonderful W.T.W. organisers dis-
cover the names and addresses of these good
but immature Australians?
[Arthur 11. Adams, somewhere in Cremorne.]
Just how safe Australian industry is in
the hands of the Ilughes-Cook crowd is in-
dicated by Cook’s sneer:—
Mr. Tudor had promised to reopen the tariff.
But it was Mr. Tudor’s tariff, and if it was already
so bad that it wanted ripping open it did not say
much for that gentleman’s statesmanship. While
the war was on the tariff could wait.
Cook’s argument is a rotten one. If the
tariff, is Tudor’s, and he (Tudor) admits
that it needs ripping open, it is the best of
all indications that it does want the knife.
Nor can the operation be left till after the
war. Australia clamors for a tariff that
will protect its industries long before the
next war (commercial) begins, so that there
will be work for our returning soldiers, and
so that the Commonwealth can get down to
the job of wiping off its awful war indebted-
ness.
“Wart”: When the Launceston trams
were started five years ago the aldermen
decently refrained from following the prac-
tice of voting themselves free rides. Since
then the codlin moth seems to have under-
mined their virtue, because at their last
meeting a resolution was passed to cart the
municipal meat on the nod. What makes
the job more glaring is the fact that a short
time ago the Bumbles turned down a propo-
sition to allow the wounded Billjims who
are convalescing at the local base hospital a
similar privilege.
THERE OR THEREABOUTS.
FIRST ARTIST : “Do you mean to say that
that picture you sold him was a work
of art?"
SECOND ARTIST: “No, hut the yarn I told
him about it was!”
Reid’s attempt in his just-produced remin-
iscences to hit off Bill Lyne: “Amiable in
private life, but rude in public life.” It
was Bill Lyne who, when The Bulletin’s
old model said he had been ordered by his
doctor to take riding exercise, and com-
plained that he had been unable to secure a
suitable horse, said heavily: “Most likely
the doctor was thinking of an elephant.”
The cost of syphilis to the nation is
beginning to be guessed at. The loss in still-
born children, or in blind, insane or dis-
eased people who would otherwise be useful
citizens, can’t be estimated ; nor yet the mere
loss of working time by casual sufferers
while they are getting cured. But, on this
last economic point, a new book by a mem-
WHY THIS DELAY?
CORPORAL: “Come on, ’urry! We're goin' to
charge the cows.”
BILLJIM : “Why, it’s Thursday morning,
Ain’t Hughes won the war yet!”
ber of the recent Royal Commission in Eng-
land remarks incidentally that in one year,
just before the war, the British navy 'and
army together lost 485,000 working days
from venereal disease. So, in the only
quarter-million men about whom statistics
are available, well over a thousand years of
good work were lost in one twelvemonth!
What would the figures for the whole nation
be?
The passing of “Bill” Ferris, of Parra-
matta (N.5.W.)., recalls political wizardry
of the old town. In the early ’Bo’s
Hughie Taylor, of the flowing beard and
square hat, was the sitting Freetrade mem-
ber ; Ferris was the Protectionist candidate.
They were friends of the same (R.C.) faith
and purred at the municipal council table;
but politically they fought “all in.” Ferris’s
growing popularity brought things to a climax,
and, with the business eye of a showman,
Taylor built a staging in the spreading tree
which overhung the footpath in the main
street, and placed thereon two loaves of
bread —the ordinary 21b. (labelled “Free-
trade”), and another half the size (ticketed
“Protection”). The foolish electors wept
over the broken bread and Taylor got the
seat.
“Selected Inmate’s” proposal:—■
Maybe it’s too late, but it has just occurred to
me that our whole system of elections is wrong,
expensive, futile and subversive to the glorious
principles of democracy. The idea struck me just
after having made three crosses on a sheet of cheap
paper, using my own pencil, the official implement
having been neatly detached from its string by
some business-like elector who got there before me.
I put those three crosses in the squares allotted to
three names that doubtless represented living indi-
viduals ; but I had neither heard them speak nor
ever to., my knowledge seen them j nor have I ever
felt the least longing to se* or hear them. And if
only enough other individuals as feckless as myself
put enough crosses in those particular squares, those
three unknown persons will make quite a lot of
laws for me. They will represent me; they will do
what a majority of “mes” vaguely tell them to do;
they will become official gramophones giving out
the desires and yearnings of a million inarticulate
myselves. Well, why not choose those three grama-
phones by a lottery ? Everybody who wanted to be
a representative of democracy could send in his
name and be allotted a numbered marble. These
marbles would then be put into a barrel and drawn.
The first 100 or so drawn would be the Federal
Parliament; and the holders could then ballot for
a Prime Minister and the other accessories or -orna-
ments of government. The method would be cheap,
expeditious, scrupulously fair, and would appeal
to our sporting instincts. The resulting body of
legislators would infallibly represent the democracy;
the theory of chance would see to it that the various
views held by the community were proportionally
represented ; and as our leaders disclaim any desire
to lead the community, and leave all important
public questions to be decided by ourselves, why
worry about the names or morals of the official
gramaphones selected as I suggest to record our
views ?
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
tnvpf t i Ure a nd £ r £ dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
JoAA S ' H ' L RIOR ’ JoHN Barb and E. O’Ferrall,
bility ] ” eor^e Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
THE WAR WINNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bitter brawl that raged round William Hughes
Is ended now. Election Day is o’er.
The loud proclaimer of Phewsonic views •
Must Win the War.
What Watt inferred, or Mannix didn’t say,
Or Joe Cook stated when he held the floor
Will hardly help the Empire, anyway,
To W T in the War.
The blood is up of William Morris Hughes,
And, ever thirsting for a foeman’s gore,
He stands, undaunted by disturbing news,
To IVin the W’ar.
Aye, stands or sits, and eloquently talks
Of what he thinks or what he thought before;
And 0! he’s taking steps where’er he walks
To Win the W’ar.
The fighting spirit animates his face.
And, still the Billy that he was of yore,
He battles in his self-appointed place
To Win the War.
His thumb tight pressed against his valiant nose,
His fingers turned towards the Caucus door,
He nerves himself for further mighty blows
To Win the War.
Yet, when he looks around the corpse-strewn field
He wipes his eye—his tender heart is sore.
Old comrades dead, who would not Party yield
To Win the War 1
Himself would yield all principles, but not
The billet that ambition hankered for;
Stern duty bade him stick to what he’d got
To Win the War.
Still fighting on, no matter which the side,
He has no dread of reckonings in store;
He knows his epitaph will be—“He tried
To Win the War.”
O, God of Battles, Judge of mortals who
Embrace the creed that once they did abhor,
Guide Billy Hughes and teach him what to do
TO WIN THE WAR.
MELBOURNE.
EDMUND FISHER.


NOVELS for the
LOUD BECKS.
A.I.F.
The Editor of The Bulletin Red
Page set out some time ago to dis-
cover what Australians in the trenches
preferred to read. This is the reply
of a Lieut.-Colonel in command of an
Australian battalion (printed in. Bu-
lletin, 1/3/’l7) : —•
p}
“There is a great hankering after anything Australian; and I
think the Bookstall Series would please Billjim more than anyt ung
else.”
Many thousands of the famous shilling Bookstall novels have already been for-
warded to Australians on the various fronts. They are the ideal reading for
Australian soldier—great novels of life in the continent they know so well.
1|- eack. ALL ONE PRICE. 1/1 posted.
TWELVE GREAT AUSTRALIAN
NOVELS.
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,”
By LOUIS BECKE.
“LOVES OF LANCELOT,”
By EDWARD DYSON.
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR-
LAUNCH,”
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER,”
By RALPH STOCK.
“IN RACING SILK,”
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,”
By DON DELANEY.
“IN THE LAST STRIDE,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“DAN KELLY —OUTLAW,”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“BILLY PAGAN, MINING ENGI-
NEER,”
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE,”
By E. J. BRADY.
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS SELECTION BOOKS AND EIGHTY OTHER
SHILLING NOVELS.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
“an oa nvisMOoa m s n
476 George Street,
_ SYDNEY.
rtygyjhkjh
Electric Motors
rtygyjhkjh
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes —both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and • exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can on y
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. e
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse—motor is the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
m
t
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents
Standard Waygood Hercules. Ltd.,
77. King Street, Sydney.
Elder. Shenton & Co., Ltd., .
William Street. Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd..
27-31, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Smifh & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
rtygyjhkjh
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD-SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
A SAFE, SURE, AND RELIABLE SPECIFIC FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
The general symptoms of worms are a
tendency to pick the nose and a sensation of
itching'in the anus. Other symptoms are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, and grind-
ing the teeth, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infre-
quent in children, and symptoms resembling
water in the head have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
The long round or stomach worm is the
commonest kind of worm from which man-
kind suffers, and is of a light, transparent
color, resembling the ordinary ground worm,
except that the extremities are more sharply
pointed than the ground worm.
Young people are more subject to these
worms than middle-aged or elderly people.
They live in the bowels, and sometimes make
their way into the stomach and throat, caus-
ing sickness, vomiting and choking. Gener-
ally one or two would be the most a person
would be afflicted with, but sometimes a
much larger number is met with. The length
varies from four to eight, inches, but young
ones an inch to two inches long are also found.
The first thing to do is to rid the system ot
the worms, and Comstock's “Dead bhot
Worm Pellets, taken according to directions,
are an effective remedy for the thorough
eradication of the long round or stomach
worm—the common enemy oi the child, the
youth, the middle-aged and aged. A light, nour-
ishing diet, out-of-door exercise, and, if pos-
sible, a change of air, will greatly improve
the general health.
Threadworms or pinworms arc ot very
common occurence in children. They are
very small, from one-sixth of an inch to halt-
an-inch in length, and resemble cotton
thread—they are sometimes called seat
worms, and'reside in the lower bowels, llic
chief symptom of this worm is severe local
itching, restlessness and irritability, and a
frequent desire to urinate, picking at the
nose; loss of appetite and anaemia are also
observed. To get rid of the worms and then
eggs their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according
to directions, on an empty stomach, followed
by a dose of opening medicine, will succeed
where others fail.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot Worm Pellets un-
packed in glass tubes, with full directions m
each and are for sale by chemists and stores
generally at 3s. 6d. per packet, or six packets
for 20s, and-if unable to obtain locally will
be mailed post free on receipt of price Pre-
pared only by The W H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W
Farisli Street, Wellington, N./., and -1
Farringdon Avenue, London, E.C.
IT
St
/ =
s'l
m
rr.'H
-/I
i.uiiiiiiffn!
g !
?> a
s a
iiU\
Ulltlini
Hill
gfig
e 3 i
a
|Mj
'iiiiinii
mu
6
iiiUJ
mg
in'!
i
r-ni^
m
!■ ■:
linmiiiiiii
w
m
si
■nimmiMM
1
*
Hill h
at/
ZEALAND.


Those who vote for justice and truth in
politics and the wise liberty which is ap-
proved bv the goddess of right, vote for in-
spiration by that wise spirit King George
IV. topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book or.
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc,,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
5000 SEVEN DAYS’ TRIAL OUTFITS
OP DR. OASTON
MENIER’S FAMOUS
FRENCH REMEDY FOR
CATARRH
Never, during the last fifty years; has a Treatment been evolved that embraced so many different
kinds of Medicamliits,, .Fluids, Apparatus, etc,', as the System devised by that brilliant French
physician, Dr. Gaston Menier, of the Paris Faculty. There is absolutely nothing in the world,
either in or out of the medical profession, that is-so curative, so rapid ill results, so certain in cure.
For seventeen years there has been practically nothing else used in Europe by doctors and the general
public, from the poorest to the richest, for the treatment-and cure of Catarrh, Asthma and Bronchitis.
5-
5/- TRIAL OUTFIT FREE IF YOU WILL
SEND ONE SHILLING AND SIXPENCE
IN STAMPS, to pay for postage, box, packing, etc.,
and send a cutting of this advt. MENIER
SYSTEM CONCESSIONAIRES, 64 PITT
STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
1/6
•u./s/oi “^a
33Ud
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Acting-Premier Fuller, of N. S. Wales
professed to be tremendously astonished the other
day on discovering that instead of a revenue of
£200,000 having been received from the tax on
totalisator investments, only £llOO had been wheeled
in. The probability is very strong that even this
£llOO does not represent any actual income and has
been got rid of on red-tape and printing incidental
to giving the totalisator a false start. But anyhow,
there is nothing for Puller to be amazed about unless
it be Ins own gullibility. What is happening could
have been easily foreseen, and The Bulletin has no
doubt was actually foreseen by some of Fuller’s
friends. This paper pointed it out immediately the
alleged policy adopted with reference to the
machine was permitted to see daylight. The whole
business has been a fraud on Parliament and on the
people, and everything that has occurred more than
justifies the opinion expressed on this page that it
would have been far better for the State if introduc-
tion of the totalisator had been left to hands which
would give it a fair deal. There was no demand
to have the totalisator crucified. As the thing stands
to-day with a division of earnings which merely
appear advantageous to the State the interests of
every racing club are against doing more than for-
mally obey the law. The 7 and 3 per cent, basis
leaves nothing of any value to the racing clubs, and
with Ikey in the foreground the 7 per cent, yields
not a fraction of what 2J per cent, would under
rational, decent conditions of running the machine.
Either Fuller will have to make up his mind to
give the totalisator legs to stand on or continue
to be astonished. The present method of running
the contraption is sheer farce from every point of
view.. At Menanglc Park, near Sydney, .last week the
machine earned 16s. 9d. to devote to the encourage-
ment of racing, pay employees, settle the bill for
printing and help maintain the course and the appur-
tenances thereof. At Sydney pony meetings the
clubs are deriving a revenue of £3O to £4O from
14 and 15 races. This is a travesty on every argu-
ment put forward for introduction of the machine.
At Menanglc Park, one of Sydney’s “outer
circles” courses, last week, the totalisator staff were
called upon to handle fully £2B while six races
were being run. There was £2O on two races, £4
on two others and nothing on the other two. The
State revenue was enriched by £1 19s. 2d. The
coffers of the club were enriched by what was left
after paying the staff and printers and buying
stationery out of 16s. 9d.
If the books bet straight out or “1, 2” on
the lines they followed in Maoriland a few years
back punters would have less cause for complaint
than they now have under the deadly 1,2, 3 system.
There, if your fancy won, you got 75 p.c. of the
gross amount on the face of the ticket, or 25 p.o, if
it filled second berth. If you stipulated “to win”
you got the full amount as usual, but it is a million
to a struck match that Ike will never give this a
go in Sydney as long as he is allowed to place-bet
on the atrocious plan now sanctioned by the clubs.
* * * *
Of course, paying out totalisator divs. with
the deliberation of a deacon handing out change of
a dollar from the collection-plate merely makes
people angry. On Sydney courses where events are
run off quick and lively the result of this leisurelv
proceeding is to drive business to the bawl-and-yell
department. Also, the habit of getting tangled up
in the arithmetic and making bloomers is not calcu-
lated to induce the crowd to rush to the lightning
calculators, who can do a sum in simple division
wrong in at least 15 minutes. If a dinkum attempt
were being made to use the machine in N. S. Wales
the frequency with which something goes awry
among its innards would be a subject of inquiry.
From what the writer observes the calaboose is row
only a subject for suppressed laughter. Meanwhile
the question of whether the dividends are being cal-
culated by multiplying the investments on the last
horse by y+x, and dividing the weight of a pound
of sausages into the apprentice allowance remains a
subject for hilarious speculation.
* # ■» *
Being called upon at Sydney Quarter Ses-
sions the other day to sentence a woman who bv a
crude tale-spin had induced several trusting indivi-
duals to hand her their cash, the everlasting Judge,
Docker, proceeded to argue strangely from the front
of his wig. It had been alleged that the woman
played up her plunder at race meetings. 'Thus his
Honor: “I am afraid that there will be an increase
in this class of crime now that the State has legal-
ised a form of gambling, and proposes to take a
percentage of the earnings.” The reference is, of
course, to the tote, and wins the Stupidity Stakes in
a walk. This woman was not a tote fiend, any-
how. She did business witli Moses, and as Moses
is a legal institution Docker’s remarks were as point-
less as a pumpkin. There is absolutely no evidence
that people who refrain from highway robbery, arson,
barratry, embezzlement, bag-snatching, conversion of
trust funds, and using faked scales in order to have a
• go at the books will at once take to safebreaking,
larceny and sly booze-peddling, and rush the pro-
ceeds up to the machine. The idea is preposterous.
What there is evidence of —and Svdney has heard a
good deal of it lately—-is that the individual with
an illicit wad can .get rid of his assets in fairlv
quick time somewhere else. Tf Judge Docker could
be induced to disguise himself in clerical attire a"d
spend a .happy day or two at Randwick, he might?,
begin to get next to' the subject he thought he was
making profound observations upon.
*■ 9 * *
The story of the most amazing assault on
Israel this paper ever heard of was unfolded last
week by an individual charged with embezzlement
at a. Sydney Court. Somewhere about Christ-
mas he Was made a teller in the Savings Bank
and commenced operations by annexing £4OO and
rushing out: to Randwick. Then he annexed some
more and went to Mooreficld and appropriated a
hundred or two a week for a flutter at the ponies.
IBy the time Easter arrived he was short £1600.' and
seems to have judged that the time was ripe to get
busy. Wherefore-he pushed £4OOO out of the till
into his pockets and invaded Randwick again.
Detaching himself from wads varying from £lOO to
£6OO he left Ikey in possession of £3400 at the
end of two days. On the last day he dropped into
the office for £7OOO on the way to the course and
went in pursuit of the missing eurrenev. There was
£BOO on Eastcourt, £1250 on Cetigne, £lOOO
Green Cap, £l5OO on Brozetti, and a last despairing
dollop of £2500 on Spurn. After paying his tram
fare- home the enterprising punter had £5OO in his
clothes, and next day gave this to the boss and ex-
plained that about £14,000 had vanished. Whereupon
the staggered boss weakly yelled police and the mag-
nificent jag was over. It all seems wildly incredible
this yarn about a man going to Randwick with
£4OOO and £7OOO in his hands, but it is what the
speculator says happened. What Ikey thought when
he saw a customer approaching- with lumps as big
as the grandstand has not been explained.
* * * *
.Mo enjoyed the run home through the
countryside from Warwick Farm (N.S.W.) on
Saturday last, particularly because his pockets
bulged with cash and the etceteras were of the best.
At the course during the afternoon two unbacked
winners and several others which were onlv nibbled
at arrived safely. The tote worked at the Farm for
the first time, but in such a manner that adherents
were shy of betting with it. The Hurdles attracted
an investment of over £5OO to the machine, and as
the favorite landed the goods the rush to collect was
too great for the staff to grapple with, and the
pay-out was not complete until 10 minutes before
the second race. To a Government that evidently
wants to give the tote a black eye this would
naturally be “highly satisfactory.” The proceedings
tickled the club.
* * * *
The Rftjah of Pudukota, who races in
Sydney, has added to his collection of live stock bv
acquiring the Maoriland 2-year-old Kilfinn, which
recently snuffed out Desert Gold, and the ’chaser
Old Mungindi. The visitor has so far not seen his
colors near the front with excessive frequency, but
he lives in hope. Anyhow, whatever the filly may
do the jumper ought to get there, unless the "handi-
capper or the exalted ownership overwhelms him. He
is a good horse, and the Rajah is a good sport.
A couple of years ago Dick Wootten sent
from England the chestnut horse Omaha to be raced
in Australia. The animal has never done anything
remarkable, but has had a share of success in'minor
events. Held on lease by Dr. G. M. Slate, who. has
been racing gallopers and trotters for a quarter of
a century, Omaha has earned his oats on Sydney
suburban courses and tracks outside the metropoli-
tan area. On Saturday he was first home in Flying
Handicap at Warwick Farm. He was third fancy in
Israel, and, beat a rank outsider in Esteban. Dr.
Slate trains Omaha himself.
PRIVATE FRANK BROWN, ex-amateur
champion hurdler, and well Mown in
Vic. athletic circles.
A moke likely to be heard of again gal-
loped into notice at the right end of Warwick E arm
Pace Welter, six furlongs, on Saturday. This was
Martian Loch, the property of J. McMaster and
Rand wick-trainer T. F. Scully. Jockey McLaehlan
was on board. The nag was quoted at 33 to 1 in
the ring, and the tote paid £l9 10s. for half a £.
There Were only 15 tickets out. Martian Loch, a
three-year-old, was unknown to the “heads,” and
apparently those behind the gelding were not aware
of his ability. Martian Loch is by the Maoriland
sire Martian out of Lady Lochiel, and was bred in
the Shaky Isles. The reason for the name of the
beast _is obvious. . McMaster and Scully had all to
do with Marvel Loch when that great mare was at
the top of her form, which incidentally was good
•: enough to land a Caulfield Cup. Martian Loch shot
away at the right end on Saturday, and won with
plenty in hand by two lengths.
* * * *
• The Bulletin put in a good word for
Eurobin last week, and the kindly gee promptly
acknowledged the compliment by winning a First
Division Handicap at Mentone (Melb.). It was only
a six-furlongs flutter, worth less than £lOO to the
winner, but there were some decent ones in the
fairly-numerous field, and Eurobin was giving weight
to the best of them. Moreover the gelding’s price,
as first favorite, was seven to two, so he was well
worth hacking.
* * * #
Talking about names for nags. Anyone
having a moke with a stain in its pedigree might do
worse than call it Phewsion. It ought to be home
and dried first go. Then if it were sold to the high-
est bidder and fell down dead on test it would be
the specidator’s funeral.
» • * *
If the two-year-old Lady Lucre had been
as badly treated- by the handicapper as by the
individual who found, a name for her something else
would have won. Being by Murilld-Lucre the method
followed was simple and foolish. Lucre is not an
English word. There may be something to be said
for such names as Lady Comely, though if the words
were reversed the result would he better. It.
has all grown mighty wearisome. Lady Lucre- is
about as sensible as Lady Spaghetti or Fraulein
Mcßeth or Madamoiselle Murphy. Surely there are
. enough words in all the vocabularies on earth to
enable a better choice to be made. It happens that
Lady Lucre is owned by the former proprietor of
Cetigne, and in the case of that good horse they
had to give him a name spelled the wrong way.
Yet quite a good dictionary can be acquired for Is.
* * * *
Last week Cetigne was sold in Sydney
for £l5OO and a contingency of £5OO more:
Minster Bill, a well-known plater, was sold at New-
market (England) for two guineas 1 The only thing
wrong with this nag was the shortage in the feed-
box. The time seems to have arrived for Australia
to help win the war by buying up a few hundred
yearlings at a dollar apiece and bringing them out as
regimental pets on the hospital ships. This would
reduce the “stupendous difficulties’’ associated with
repatriation to the ridiculous simplicity of present-
ing every Billjim with the winner of the next Caul-
field Cup or the Flying Handicap at Rosehill and
telling him to get busy.
* * * *
“Musketoon”’ Have read at times of
jockeys who, having had a leg broken during a race,
have hung on to their mounts till the finish. But
till a few days ago I never heard of a horse finishing
with a broken leg. This actually happened at
Orange (N.S.W.) quite recently. Barbaric, ridden
by Rosen, was noticed to be in a bad way in
the Trial Stakes, and on being pulled up was
found to have broken the leg just above
the hock. It is believed the accident occurred
two furlongs from home, but the horse was
up with the rest as they passed the post. The
favorite, Mooltana, when running like a winner,
broke a bloodvessel in his head. This broke several
punters’ hearts.
* * * *
“Playbird”: There are compensations in
the trenches. This from my cobber’s letter: “It’s
a bit of all right here. We have a two-up school
every day, and there are no blushing Johns about to
disturb us. I’m over seven quid ahead of it up till
last Wensdy.”
* * * *
The only question in doubt at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday was whether Sid Godfrey would
pass Frank Thorn out sooner or later than he did in
Brisbane. _lt transpired that Sid was a supporter of
early closing. Finding he could do nothing with
Thorn as a boxer he tried punching the enemy hard.
Thorn took the change of programme more fre-
quently than was good for him, though for a long
time the wallop missed the assigned mark. On
points the aggressive party hardly won a round, but
the leakage of Thorn's strength was continuous, for
when a pug has reached his years there is little
in the way of reserve left to be drawn on. Nature
had him beaten in the eleventh, for though he had
given the youth in front of him a lesson in box-
ing up till then, he was almost too exhausted to
stand. “Have you had enough, Frank?’’ asked
Arthur Scott. He nodded his head and reeled into
the corner. Godfrey on receiving the verdict was
unmarked and fresh. But the old man got the
cheers. He was as quick and adroit as ever except
in keeping steam up.
* # * *
Sydney Rugby League hoofballers go
along merrily, despite the biT forward game in the
mud over in France. Competitions are announced to
start next Saturday, and in order to assist recruiting
the tramway authorities are going to carry the
crowds out to the grounds on special cars, where
lusty youth will whoop after a ball instead of whoop-
ing after the man-eater. An erstwhile crack League
footballer wrote recently: “I would rather a million
times be here in Flanders, up to my neck in slush,
waiting to hop over at Fritz than be among those
unblushing loafers in Sydney.”
* * * *
It looks as if John Madden was not far
wrong when he described lacrosse as a game for
thoroughbreds and gentlemen. Anyhow, some well
bred ’uns played the game in Victoria, for of the
Association’s roll of over 400 members 85 p.c. are in
khaki. Good bovs! The 120 players in the nine
teams entered for this season’s competition are
ineligible for military service, being nearly all
under age. Two seasons ago 42 teams were in the
fray.
* * # *
The opening run of Victorian cross-country
clubs was a significant contrast to what happened in
past years. A field of over 400 was a decent average
then; at last week’s burst only 48 mustered. The
shortage is commendable. Nearly 70 per cent, of
A.A.A. athletes have pulled on khaki.
* * * #
The late Methodistical Felstead, of Mel-
bourne, was almost a sport where swimming was con-
cerned. Some 12 years ago he succeeded George
Turner as president of Melb. Swimming Club. He
used to donate a handsome trophy to the competitions
every year, and when the club sent a team to Syd-
ney it was quite customary for Felstead to defray
the expenses. So the club reckoned him a
proper kind of president. Probably it was the
only club that spoke very kindly of this painfully
respectable citizen. In a general way he was not
popular among the godless, for popularity smacks
of sinfulness.
* * * #
The championship of the Deyonnort (Tas.)
Bowling Club was won by H. Wilkinson, who
defeated H. J. Richmond by 31 to 28. Wilkinson
has now won the championship of six clubs in Vie.,
S.A., W.A. and the Speck. He is a Methodist par-
son in his off time, but there isn’t too much off.
* * # *
One-time sculler, pigeon-shot and cyclist,
Dick Arnst, has lately dropped 3000 quail in six
weeks near Coolamon. Easter Monday’s bag num-
bered 160. The Fortune Hunter’s,., Day! Shooters
hereabouts are netting from £l2 To £2O a week.
Good shooting profit that, and a holiday trip thrown
in.
* » * *
A many-sided sportsman dropped off the
track when Bill Ferris crossed out at Parramatta
recently. In that district he was a front-ranker
at rifle-shooting, bowls and cricket; a pioneer of
swimming, rowing and cycling. Ferris was one ; of
the three judges in that Svdney Thousand bike-race,
over which a batch of pedallers (including Yankees?
Lawson, Downing and MacFarland) were disqualified:
for collusion. The prize was awarded to “Widely”,
O’Brien (now the ponderous bandmaster of Sydney
Professional Musicians Union).
* * * »
There will be the usual hustle im Sydney
baseball this season, between the rival League and
Association factions. The struggle has been going
on for three years, and hope of a patched-up peace
is as far off as ever. Originally-the Association con-
trolled winter ’ball, while the League attended to
the summer aspect of the game; but the rivals quar-
relled, and the League, affiliating with the National
League of America, ran an all-the-year-round series.
Premierships are being handed out by both sides
and there is more argument about it all than over
the fate of civilisation.
* * * *
Gerald Taylor’s attempt on the Victorian
and Australian 100yds. professional records at Mel-
bourne didn’t disturb anything. He covered the
stretch in 9|sec., well outside Jack Donaldson's
9fsee. at Melbourne in 1911, and 9|sec. in S’Africa
in 1910. But as the track was not in record-break-
ing condition, Taylor hopes to rattle the pace up
next time.
* * *
Officials of the South Gippsland Sports
Association and three timekeepers certified the
other day at Womerah (Vic.) sports that the
Australian wood-chopping record for two-feet stand-
ing blocks had been fractured bv the winner of
the competition. His name is Janies Bineen and he
got through his job (the wood, by the way, was
solid blackbutt) in 3 min. 58 l-ssec.
A cynical American sports-writer calcu-
lates that golf has added a total of 543,768 years to
the lives of those playing it in the U.S.A., but that
the exertion of getting away from the office early
on Saturdays has shortened them by 652,660, leaving
a net loss of 8892 years. Also that the game has
produced a crop of 217,000 “partial widows, who
might just as well have no husbands at all on
Saturdays and Sundays.” Further, that the ground
unintentionally dug up by the players’ clubs would
in four Saturday afternoons be enough to excavate a
canal 10 feet deep, 100 feet wide and two miles
long. There are a solid half-million of pros, and
amateurs at it, anyway.
X- * * *
“Cylinder”: Agree with “Eryander” (P».
29/3/’ 17) that shooting in front of hurrying target
is right in principle, but where does he get his
information that No. 6 shot propelled by 45 grains
smokeless powder travels 40yds. in 1.20 th of a
second, or at the rate of 2400 ft. per second? That
is faster than the service rifle sends its bullet. Have
never heard of the most enterprising cartridge manu-
facturer claiming up to 1200 ft. per second for his
product. The usual thing for standard shell (45
grains and l£oz. No. 6) is between 1050 and 1100,
over 20 yards, which is standard test distance. Over
a 40 yards course the average rate would drop to
870 ft. per second. Generally speaking, the gunner
will not have to face anything much faster than a
teal in full flight, or a clay pigeon sent at
full tilt, and they are reckoned to do only
40 miles per hour, while his blaek-cheek falcon
works out at over 80. Going at that it would have
moved 15ft., while the shot charge was en route.
It’s all in the instant judgment of a bird’s speed
and at what angle he is going. My figures are only
for true crossing birds; all others require a reduc-
tion. Have shot at what seemed absurd distances
ahead, and got ’em, and experimenting, once, got too
far out on a fast snipe. The charge appeared to pass
(according to where it struck the water) about 2ft.
in front, but the game turned round and went the
other way like a flash before crossing the line of fire.
There’s a lot in being quick on the trigger too, while
to shoot deliberately yards ahead requires practice, for
the tendency to hold on is almost irresistible. What
size of shot would shotsters consider as the best for
teal?
“Ponto”: Can any sport tell me why, if a
rabbit is shot in the nut from a head-on position,
one of his back legs is found to be broken? This
was made clear to ,me at Main Brothers’
Retreat station, near Cootamundra, and good guns
assure me that it is invariable.
* * * *
“Nick Bottom”: No bigger mistake was
ever made than that quickness is essential to success
in catching sand-worms for baijt. Also, only
the veriest amateurs at the game resort to pliers.
A piece of raw meat or pippv and a steady hand
are all that are required. After locating yoiir grub
all that you have to do is to coax him to crawl
across the butt-end of your forefinger (this is where
the raw meat comes in) arid quietly place your
thumb upon the back of his neck. Then pull up
steadily. Along the Queensland beaches worms five
feet long are common. No angler who knows any-
thing of. the game uses anything but worms as bait
for whiting; but for bream the best bait is fowl gut
or mullet gut; then comes pippy, with sand-worms
trailing behind. P.S.—From low water to half
flood is best time for worm-stalking.
“H.V.E.”: My biggest fiatbead was about
3ft. in length, but I think exceptionally large ones
will go to 4ft. or a little over. These big fellows are
best stuffed and baked, otherwise they are apt to eat
dry. As a rule, in tidal lakes, estuaries, etc., in
which flathead of ordinary size (say, 12in. to 16in.
long) are caught, there are usually some monsters,
but they rarely bite except to a very large bait, and
are generally taken in nets. Similarly, the rock-
fisher who uses a very large bait, hooks the
biggest snapper, but he is more bothered by sharks
than his mate who doesn’t. By the way, one Dam-
pier, when visiting Australia some little time ago
(16th century, I think), caught some fish which he
called “foxes,” and which from the description given
were flathead. His crew went nap. on them.
* * * *
“V.”: During a varied and long experi-
ence, I have taken the following miscellaneous articles
; of: hardware from the stomachs of sharks caught with
; the line: A small anchor, a wire lobster-(crayfish)-
trap, a pair of rubber boots (probably the owner
-had ; . already been digested), sundry lead-sinkers, and
rloscriDtions, human and other.


YOU SHOULD LEARN
“HOW” TO BOX
L
—learn how to defend yourself. Such a knowledge will never be a burden
to you, but in times of need will prove your best friend and protector.
No man knows the day or the hour when he will be called upon to avenge
some insult, or the time when he will have to defend himself against some
bully or ruffian.
Are you capable of taking care of yourself in such an emergency ?
NOW is the time to learn the art of scientific boxing.
If not,
I Teach Boxing by Mail
-—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My boxing instructions are very thorough-
you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under my per-
sonal coaching.
My lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and are
cramful of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post it to me, and 1-Will send‘Youby
return mail my interesting Booklet, SCIENTM IG
BOXING IN YOUR HOME,” which tells all about
■my methods, terms, etc. Please send three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
608 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
St**
Co'
VNC
\>s
*s*
ass**;
5(0
ae®
«2*
ss
se
SIRIS CUT
GOLD BARS
A High-grade Virginian Tobacco that
will not bite the tongue.
Specially Prepared and Packed in
Hermetically-sealed lib. and 11b. Tins,
which ensures delivery in perfect
condition.
lib. Tins, 8/-; Postage, lid.
lb. Tins, 4/-; Postage, 6d.
An Ideal Smoke for the Troops Abroad.
We Pack as per G.P.O. Regulations
FREE, and forward same on receipt
of .address and P.N value 9/- for
lib., or 4/7 for %lb. tins.
A Sample 2oz. Tin forwarded any-
where Post Paid for 1/2.
A. KEBBLEWHITE,
Cigar and Cigarette Merchant,
“The Old Established House,”
19 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ty'i
\o*\ t
p:
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
Vaporisation under
all conditions
USE IT-AND PROVE IT.
BiMA Imperial Oil Cm IM
rtygyjhkjh
Find the Wonder Places
—the beauty spots that lie off the
beaten track Go touring on
Sfidian
The Motorcycle of Supreme Comfort
Catalogue " D ” with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. KS:
109-113 Russell St.. Melbourne.
I* atom
rtygyjhkjh
safeguard Your health
OtJ-Collis Brownes
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE I'OB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
anti in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, of-.
Made in England.
RIGNEY SHOES.
You will'have no difficulty in getting exactly
the shoe to suit your taste if you visit the
Rigney Shoe Parlors. We have a most
extensive assortment of the highest-grade
footwear for all occasions.
We illustrate a choice All-patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike “perfect.”
Price - 401-
Postage 9d. extra.
r
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
mm
m
Kftw a
'
* n
■■><£’::.. -• •
... _
pp pigg
IBff«s^
,V-
-•'
Mg
? $
& 8
SB
s
\
s :
wsPgjls?
\-«s
c. v
«
MW. ft! '•• .; v - " \> ; . ,►» *
W§
s.*;
’ ‘y: ;
v via?.
! •:
j
>.*
HVPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting Disorders
Price 2/6 bottle
m
N
BE
A*J t
m
■M
will keep you dry
in continuous rain.
The “Rubber-Duk” is absolutely waterproof. It will
keep you and your Saddle dust-dry even in the fiercest
tropical downpour. The “Rubber-Duk” has been
SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR SADDLE-USE,
and this, combined with its rain-resisting capacity,
makes it an unbeatable coat for Horsemens wear.
It is constructed in a Stout, Light-Brown Duck of
the Highest Grade Obtainable. The texture is doubled
throughout with a Sheet of Pure Rubber inserted
between the two thicknesses. Am extra piece extends
over the chest, shoulders find back. There is a triple
thickness where the fronts meet when they are but-
toned, so no moisture can enter there. The ran
protects the Saddle at back, and the Coat buttons well
over the Pommel in - front. The Coat is of ample
length—-is Australian-made —and at the price repre-
sents the limit of Value.
POST
YOUR ORDER —AYE PAY FREIGHT.
Lincoln,
Stuart & Co.
PTY. LTD,.
“ Specialists in
Outfitting by
Mail” *
Melbourne
=s^
-';v
a
■k
w
r
i


rtygyjhkjh
"ClKy say T am
tttfgDtfer than
tltt sword!”
“ Only the soldier needs
the sword nowadays, but
evrrvbodv has need of me
for I am the Onoio —
peerless among pens."
I'he Onoto simplifies wrl*
ting. It writes with smooth
precision from first to last.
It is the one really satis-
factortMjeif-hhing^pen.
Onoto Pen
the “trusty” pen.
The Onoto is British made. It is designed to v
last a lifetime; and is guaranteed by its makers.
■ d and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers,
and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. DE LA RUE &* CO., Ltd.,
181, Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representatives
NORMAN BAKER LONGHURST, jo York
. Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK —Best for all Pens.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
J HE Walsliaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street/ Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
Actress Tells Secret
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment : “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum and a small box of Orlex Com-
pound. These Ingredients can be bought at
any chemist’s at very little cost. Apply to
the hair twice a week until it becomes the
required shade. This will make a grey-
haired person look 20 years younger. It is
also fine to promote the growth of hair, and
relieves itching and dandruff.” —Advt. [1
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS,
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LECS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3 -, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drue: Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
) AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
Cinnak
Cures Colds,
Huskiness, and
Nasal Catarrh.
NO WATER, TUMBLER,
or SPOON NEEDED.
rtygyjhkjh
Cinnak is a pink powder in an
air-tight tube. Shake a little on
to the palm of the hand and trans-
fer to the tongue. The Cinnak
gasifies immediately, permeates
the air passages, and at once
relieves the stuffiness. It steri-
lises the cold germs and the cure
is begun.
The Cinnak tube is air-tight
and unbreakable, and can be car-
ried in the pocket. An occasional
dose prevents infection.
Carry a Cinnak tube
yourself and send one in
eacli parcel to Franee.
CINNAK IS SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
1/6 PER TUBE 1/6
55
rtygyjhkjh
■ A £l4 Machine
With 5 p o | A
Drawers, %0. IUSt
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
’Y&rdleys
Shaving Stick
The Stick mthe Glass Case
U
ULU
\ D L If Adi
FOR REAL
SHAVING
COMFORT
Gives Ease and Speed in
Shaving. The ointment-like
lather is all working —it lies flat
on the face, soothing the skin,
lubricating the razor and soften-
ing the beard. Being Yardley’s
the perfume too is just right.
Made in England by
b NEW BOND STREET. LONDON.
*l.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BENDIGO AMALGAMATED
GOLDFIELDS NO LIABILITY
CAPITAL-£500,000 divided into 2,000.000 shares of 5/- each.
The whole of the shares to be issued for cash have been underwritten.
Provisional Directors:
L. V, LANSELL, Mine Owner, Bendigo. W. ANGLISS, Exporter, Melbourne.
11. M. LEGGO, Merchant, Bendigo. E. 0. DYASON, Mining Engineer, Bendigo.
(Two Directors to be appointed.)
Bankers:
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
Brokers:
NEW SOUTH WALES— VICTORIA—
FURNER k BROWNHILL, 117 Pitt Street, WARD & CO., 383 Collins Street, Melbourne—
Sydney. and all Members of recognised Stock Exchanges
in Victoria.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— QUEENSLAND—
LAURIE & HODGETTS, Grenfell Street, Adelaide. CORRIE & CO., 127 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA— WESTERN AUSTRALIA—
W. STENNARD, Stock Exchange, Hobart. CLARKE & CO. (A. Rutter Clarke), St. George's
H. HAWKINS, Stock Exchange, Hobart. Terrace, Perth.
F. DOUGLAS JONES, Bendigo.
Solicitors:
ARTHUR PHILLIPS, Melbourne.
Auditors:
J. H. CRAIG, F.C.P.A., Bendigo. A. CAPPER MOORE, F.C.P.A., Melbourne.
Provisional Managing Director:
E. C. DYASON, B.Sc., 8.M.E., Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
Legal Manager (pro tern.) and Head Office:
J. G. STANFIELD, F.C.P.A., Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
Melbourne Representative (pro tern.):
NORMAN PICOT (Edward Dyason Pty. Ltd.), Equitable Building, Melbourne.
The following Companies have agreed to amalgamate
Carlisle North Garden Gully and Passby United Gold
Mines Co. N.L.
The Catherine Reef United Claimholders Gold Mining
Co. N.L.
Clarence United Co. N.L.
The Collmann and Tacehi’s Freehold Mining Co.
N.L.
Confidence Extended Coy. N.L.
Constellation Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Cornish United Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Derby .Reef Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Garden Gully United Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Golden Age Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Golden Pyke Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Great Extended Hustlers Reef Quartz Mining Co.
N.L.
Great Northern Co. N.L.
The Hercules & Energetic Co. N.L.
The Hustlers Reef Quartz Mining and Drainage Co.
N.L. s
The Ironbark Co. N.L.
The Johnson’s Reef Gold Mines Co. N.L.
Koch’s Pioneer Quartz Mining and Crushing Co. N.L.
The Murchison Gold Mining Co. N.L.
The New Argus Gold Finding Co. N.L.
New Moon Co. N.L.
North Johnson’s Reef Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Pearl Co. N.L.
The Princess Dagmar Gold Mining Co. N.L.
The Sea Gold Mining Amalgamated Co. N.L.
Shenpshead Mining Co. N.L.
South Garden United Mining Co. N.L.
South Virginia Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Specimen Hill United Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Suffolk United Co. N.L.
United Hustlers & Redan Co. N.L.
Unity Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Victoria Consols Mining Co. N.L.
Victory & Pandora Amalgamated Co. N.L.
Virginia Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Williams United Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Windmill Hill Gold Mining Co. N.L.
“The ‘Central Area/ in which operations will he conducted , extends for a length of
five miles with an average width of one mile. As the name implies, the ‘Central Aren '
constitutes practically the heart of the proved productive portion of the Bendigo gold-
field j wherein it has been demonstrated that the famous ‘saddle’ reefs occur with more
than average frequency....”
Extract from Report by V. Pabst, Mining and Geological Surveyor.
PROSPECTUS may be obtained from the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF
AUSTRALIA; or from the COMPANY’S BROKERS and EDWARD DYASON PTY.
LTD., Equitable Building, Melbourne, and Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo. .
“The Bendigo Goldfield—Resources of the Central Area,” by V. Pabst, post free on application to
Edward Dyason Pty. Ltd., Equitable Building Melbourne, and Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
The Volum Brewing Co. (Geelong,
Vic.) :—•
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
I'eb., 1909 £B4l 10 p.c. = £5OO £l4O £2Ol £11,103
Aug., 1909 833 10 „ „ 500 137 196 11,299
t eb., 1910 1663 10 „ „ 500 632 531 11,830
Aug., 1910 885 10 ~ „ 501 125 259 12.089
Feb., 1911 1894 10 „ „ 503 1372 19 12,108
Aug., 1911 1108 10 „ ~ 503 750 11,963
Feb., 1912 2347 lu ~ ~ 603 1800 44 12,007
Aug., 1912 1275 10 ~ „ 513 1000 11,769
Feb., 1913 2541 10 ~ „ 574 1800 167 11,936
Aug., 1913 2072 !0 „ „ 674 700 798 12,734
Feb., 1914 2886 10 „ „ 703 1300 883 13,617
Aug., 1914 2894 10 „ „ 719 500 1675 15,292
leb., 1915 2887 10 ~ ~ 719 1550 618 15,910
Aug., 1915 1372 10 „ „ 719 700 15,863
Feb., 1916 1861 10 ~ „ 793 1200 15,731
Aug., 1916 1383 10 ~ .. 897 100 386 16.117
Feb., 1917 1492 10 ~ „ 897 500 95 16,212
It is the proper thing to gibe at Geelong for
being slow; and no doubt when the direc-
tors of this concern made £2500 and divided
only £5OO the well-worn old brick was
thrown at them. But they can reply that
they have paid a rear onable 10 p.c. for
very many years and are in a far better
position to go on paying 10 p.c. than most
breweries. The bulk of the money which
they didn’t divide in past years they put
into pub properties, and to-day, though the
assets have been kept well written down,
this line’ stands in the books at £22,988.
which is £5OOO more than the whole paid
share capital of the co. This policy has also
secured for the co. a very fair trade con-
nection : wherefore, though brewery premises
and plant and rolling-stock have been gradu-
ally written down to under £12,000, profit
on manufacturing account was £2372 during
the past 12 months. The future of the whole
grog trade is uncertain but so long as there
is any profit at all in it this little co. seems
to have gone the ri_.ht way to secure it—so
far as any manufacturing and trading con-
cern can assure its future.
* * # •
In view of the fact that compounds of
asbestos and Portland cement are coming
into ever-increasing favor as building
material and are now beginning to be manu-
factured in Australia, more interest is being
shown in asbestos deposits. One Sydney co.
which has lately entered into the manufac-
turing business has put in a certain amount
of development work on a deposit at Iron-
bark Creek, Barraba. The fibre occurs, as
it generally does, in serpentine, and there is
a large quantity of rock carrying asbestos, but
the length of fibre is not too satisfactory.
Any amount of very short stuff, technically
known as “ribbon” asbestos, is available, but
seams of any width are not plentiful, and
as every seam has a break of fibre at or
near the middle, a feature common to all the
asbestos in the district, a 2-inch seam is
required to yield a one-inch fibre. Anyway,
after having done some little work on the
area in the shape of costeening in various
places, operations have been discontinued,
at any rate for the present. As a sidelight
upon the fact that the habit of importing
everything ready-made has an exceedingly
deleterious influence upon tire mining industry
of Australia —a country which abounds in
unutilised reserves of industrial minerals onlv
awaiting a decent local demand to keep
thousands of men in lucrative employment—
the matter has its instructive value. A
country that persistently neglects the develop-
ment of its own resources in favor of those
of every other country is hardly likely to get
much beyond the wild-rabbit stage.
* * * *
“M. 8.”: Near where Dick Bets f com-
monly and mistakenly called Bates) found
the Black Swan, between Laverton (W.A.)
and the Great Vic. desert, there was a party
working on a nice leader about as wide as
a brick, in soft sinking, and worth 14oz. to
the ton under the stamps. This was the
average; sometimes it went a little better,
sometimes not as much, .but this was what
it ran for months for 20-ton parcels sent to
the little 5-head 30 miles away. An expert
from Cripple Creek, or one or other of the
authorities on gold and what to do with it
when you have some, came along and
knocked a bit of the stuff on the dump to
pieces. Saw color in it. and asked the chaps
what they were doing. They suggested that
they were mining in a small way. “What
for?” lie inquired. “For gold,” they said.
“This stuff isn’t gold,” he told them.' “For
God’s sake, don’t tell ’em that at the bank.”
pleaded one of the lads. “The d—d fools
are givin’ us four quid an ounce for it.”
* * * •
“B.”: When Arthur Bayley decided to
discover Coolgardie in 1892 he was on the
Niehol, the first field in the world found by
a Chinaman. Ford was not with him there.
He was at the Cross awaiting instructions.
Bayley made up his mind finally and cut
the Niehol out of his calculations with the
suddenness which was one of his character-
istics. He and his mate there had been on
good gold, and when the time came to part
they had to divvy up in the metal. Spreading
it all out on a piece of paper on the box
which was the table in the humpy, each
took a pannikin full, levelling the top off
with the back of a knife, and tossed
for what was left over. There was still a
slug of 40oz. or 50oz. to divide and no scales.
Bayley laid the slug on the block outside, cut
it in two with the tomahawk, and invited
his mate to take his pick. That is the sort
of hairpin he was.
* * * *
The little tin shows on the Tas. East
Coast have been having a good time
lately with tin at a high price, and a plenti-
ful supply of water. Many shows regarded
as merely winter propositions have been
able to work continuously during the sum-
mer. The Clifton Creek Co. lately shifted
its pontoon to a site eight chains higher up
the creek. A dam was built behind the
pontoon, and water was pumped over until
sufficient height was obtained to float into
a position further uphill.
* * * *
“F.H.W.”: Gold coinage is still circulat-
ing in abundance in S’Africa. Recently I
tendered an Australian note at a Cape shop
and was surprised to receive a half-sovereign
amongst the change. Before the day passed
a party of us found no difficulty in obtaining
a yellow curio for every Australian note we
held.


rat®!
<b
Ruunnn
/#>\'v\V : /;
I'M
I
IMI
©
»l\i«
M
!£ l i
-.:_ —..— -
A' M/m m ««<«■». i wii A«i «Awu»»«lM|Si
SMS
\\\
w\
WWW
ITB A BEALE KALOPHONE-
tfie musicaf instrument wRicE recreates
tfie finest efforts oC tfieAfdrlds Best
Entertainers. Tfie fultricfi tone rippfes
forffi in a flood ofmefody as artistic
and as perfect as tfioutif tfie actual per-
former were in tfie room.
Ton wifi enjoy fiearind your favourite
artist on tfie ‘BEALE KALOPHONE.
Made in many sfyles.
Head Office and Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bathurst, Orange. Lismore, Newcastle. Goulburn and Wagga.
Victoria : Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs. .
Tasmania : Williams Bros . Hobart. Maples. Launceston.
South Australia John Evans. Ltd.. Adelaide.
fseccle
L J &C? LTP
335 George St Sydney.
Factory:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST. ANNANDALE.
Queensland . 90-92 Queen Street Brisbane
Kent Street, Maryborough Flinders Street, Townsville.
Rockhampton. Sydney Street. Mackay.
Cairns-


-A/
V
jm»
SfLJ
Ml
U
sw
at®
Nervousness
When a sudden
fright makes you
jump or drop
things it is a sign
that the nerves
are unstrung and
probably the
whole system
run down. This
condition may by too much work,
insufficient sleep, mental worries, an injury, or
the abuse of alcohol. As a preliminary, there
may be pains in the head, irritability, sleepless-
ness, general indisposition, headache, vomiting
and constipation.
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
at once braces and steadies the nerves, irritation
departs, sleep and restful nights follow, and’ in
a very short time the whole system is restored
to a normal condition. Fishers Phospherine is
also taken for Backache, Rheumatism, &c. It
« good for indigestion. All chemists and stores
1- pel Bottle. Fojjr times the quantity. ZS
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE BTWEET, BYDNEY, NS W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. — The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment-the Perfected New
rtygyjhkjh
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
......mi v; . • J atl( * Powerful as the old
model. Nmetv-six degrees of sound in eight
ad]ustii-n..s, instantly changed hy a touch of
“Sf'* 0 8,,,t tll( j hearing on every occasion,
iTUi tor all staff€B of deafness.
Call and, test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and Particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
Tel. SUIT) City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Ino. ,45 West 34th St. New York
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Tile famous Remedy tliat actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM. GOUT. EUMItAGO,
SCI'TICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
411 Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Wo "* .c- c-> 000 strand. London.
FOR
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(fIPILLfIRINE
If you decide to shave your
Moustache don’t leave off using
CAPILLARINE. It will strengthen
the hair-roots in the meantime,
and the moustache will be more
luxuriant when you decide to grow
it again.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AirXEN, eS4 SY c „ 8t
txjcnma
CURES ECZEMA.
A few excerpts from testimonials recently
received:—•
D. Nicholson, Middle Street, Randwick: “A long
sufferer from Eczema, I was completely cured by
Exzerma.”
Issy Davis, Bayley Street, Cooigardie: “Exzerma
completely cured me of Eczema, from which I had
suffered for a long time on both hands.”
Thos. Kins’, CooladcH. Charleville: “Doctors I tried
in vain; chemists failed utterly to relieve me of
Eczema. Three bottles of Exzerma gave a complete
and lasting cure.” ft
ALL. CHEMISTS, or
8. fielder, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 2/6
The TRIALS oPJthe
GREY-HAIRED
m
■
&
«N
.J#
%5
“Don’t wait until you ari told by your employer that you are too oid-
looking to hold your position, but commence at once and use Mrs. Mary
K. Chapman’s Genuine Specific. It will darken your hair naturally and
gradually, and you Will look years younger*’*
FREE TRIAL BOTTLE
iN business and professional life, when
* energy and clear-headedness are the
measures of success, the business man
or woman recognises only too well that
the appearance of the first grey hairS
marks the world’s refusal to recognise
him or he»* any longer as young enough.
Looked Too Otd at FWty-six
Numerous instances haVe Gome under
my notice of men and women who had
held responsible positions for years, and
who at the age of 46 or thereabouts, be-
cause their hair had turned grey, probably
through mental strain, were pushed out
of their position even though they were
comparatively young and vigorous Grey
or white hair is not a definite sign of old
age, but unfortunately it is considered
to be proof of advanced age by the gen-
eral public. There are hundreds of men
and women in all parts of Australia who
are considerably over 60 and whose hair
was as white as snow, but who now look
20 years younger because they used my
Genuine Specific..
No Dyes or Stains.
My Genuine Specific is not a dve or
stain, and you need not be afraid of
discolouring your scalp, your towel, pil-
low cases, linen, hands, etc. It contains
no stain, paint or dye. This can be
proved by pouring a little on a sheet of
white paper. It is almost as clear as
water and absolutely harmless to the
.lair. Once the hair has been restored
to the original colour, it can be kept so
with but very slight attention.
Gradual Satisfactory
Darkening!
The process is a natural, gradual One.
There is no suddenness and the dark-
ening is not patchy as is the case When
applying ordinary dyes.
None Too Aged.
None are tdo Old and no case fails to
respond to this treatment. Of course
the quantily required varies in individual
cases, for instance, a person who is only
just beginnin { to turn grey would not
need to use as much as the person
whose hair is white. In every case
where the hair is grey, faded or bleach-
ed, the colour can be restored regardless
of age or the cause. No matter how
o.ten you have been disappointed in the
past, you are invited to test this new
discovery absolutely free of charge.
How Readers may Test this
Discovery Free of Cost.
One of the most remarkable facts in
connection with the discovery of the
Genuine Specific is the announcement
of Mrs. Mary K. Chapman of her desire
that all who are grey haired should make
a test of this colour restoring product
without any cost to themselves, and in
the privacy of their own home. Fill in
the coupon below and post without delay.
■Post This Coupon Now.
To Mrs. MARY K, CHAPMAN,
(Suite 56),, Falmouth Chambers,lll7 Pitt Street, Sydney (just below G.P.0.).
th ™ e , sta . m P s for postage, etc., on a Sample Bottle of your Genuine
Specific, which please send by return post.
Name ;
Address
State
1
I
li
The“BULLETIN"
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The“BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
I'he tw,o most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They both have
Pigskin Seat, the “GS” short panel with
leather points, long flans and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
Stirrups, Girth, Leathers and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle.
Freight Free for Cash to Any Port or Rail-
way Station in N.S.AV. For 3s. 6d. extra
for easing we will send Freight Free to any
direct port in Queensland, Victoria, South
Australia. N.Z. or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 11/6, SADDLECLOTH 6/6,
BREASTPLATE 8 -
If Ordered with Saddle. Otherwise Is. each
Extra for Postage.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS
393 George Street,
32 Hunter Street.
SYDNEY,
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
University: No; if anybody is charging
you 9d. for The Bulletin in Queensland write us
with the address. The rates are 265. 6d. a year
posted, or on the stalls 6d Amy: Can’t attend
to that blushful subject; very busy these days try-
ing to win the war Elsie: Right enough, but not
for us E.A.8.: (1) The paying-off of the debt
depends wholly upon the increase of the margin
between our exports and our imports. That is to
say, the only way in which we can pay off our debt
is by' exporting more than enough to pay for (a)
what we import and (6) the interest on what we
already owe the outsider. (2) We’ll have a try at
it.... Wager: This ought to settle it; it is from
the Curator of the Australian Museum. The poison
fangs, or modified teeth, in a venomous snake are
carried on the fore part of the- upper jaw, on the
bone known as the premarilla.... Geo. M.: Some
old, others of no interest... .G.S.: Not up....
White Alien: Don’t understand the position. Do you
mean to say that in Darwin men who have enlisted
have been arrested as absconding debtors and have
been held in gaol since?... .Anne Zack: How many
times have you to be asked to leave working space
between the lines? And change the name... .Minkil:
Thanks... .Ossian: Returning dog story; you ought
to be able to sell it elsewhere... .Territory: Thanks,
but the Censor is still on the job... .Charles Perroux:
Dear man, The Bulletin is less proud of its victories
than of its defeats G.J.M.: Not quite C.P.:
“Mr. Tanner’’ too feeble... .Pat: Not enough in it.
... .Blair Athol: All that to arrive at the staggering
humor of a situation where a hard-working drunk
wouldn’t accept charity... .J.J.D.: Just the usual
little moral tale about the good boy and his mother.
. ...G.P.: Music may be all right; but the words
are pretty lamentable The Admiral: To be
“driven by the iron walls of circumstance’’ must be
almost as bad as being chased by the infuriated lamp-
post of despair... .Timbuctoo: Heaven mend yOur
sense of humor J.C.P.: There ought to be mirth
in “beer divining,” but you fail to get it out
A.E.G.: Not worth its space The Mem:
“Downfall” not a bad yarn, but not our
style... .G.S.: “Passing it On” won’t do.
It is well done, but lacks grip W.J.H.:
Dreary sort of yarn R.J.J.A.: “Parable” is a
well-intentioned sort of animal, but old and feeble
and ill-groomed.... J.L.: Crude yarns of dirt, horse-
play and dad’s whiskers fill us with malice
and murderous desires Culkah: No S.C.:
“The Fins” are a bit thin and spotted W.K.:
“Moss” affair too mechanical.. ..Laums: Not our
style... .Nisio: Lame fragment... .Mc.C.: Doesn’t
make a yarn G.M.L.: Verse no good. Yarn held
for inquest... .Fortheb: It’s a sorrowful perform-
ance... .5.F,.W.: Ending doesn’t convince M.M.:
“Time” has an idea, but the verse wobbles badly....
•T.A.K.: Not enough in it E. 8.: “Optimism”
would be a dull yarn even for the “Sunday School
Times” S.R.: “Freddie and Bill” warned off for
inane stupidity M.S.: No N.S.H.: Doesn’t
quite get ns. The stuff is imitative, but has promise.
W.E.B.: “Anzac” verse not up..'. .E.M.E • Not
much force....W.C.K.: Wanted better handling....,
E.S.: For Heaven's sake write legibly on one side of
the paper... .Snik : Doesn’t arrive... .F.C.K.P.:
Gentle little fluttering verse with no meaning or
purpose 5.1. R.: Idea good. Try and improve
verse... .N..J.: “The Victor” is too slight. .. .G RH •
Bumps very badly... .G.C.: Too crude in thought
and workmanship K.C.: Nothing in it. The
“Nelson touch” doesn’t mean what you imagine.
S.L.: Yes, there’s a thrill in it:—
But the Kaiser in pomp along that way
strode on that fair simmer's day!
“What are these vagrants doing thus?”
And then he began to swear and cuss!
You do<?s,” he cried, in fiery ra^e,
I will give yon all Hell’s wage !
A pound of lead for a meal;
For sauce you’ll get the stab of steel;
Bombs for bed will make you sleep ;
Von may bath in the tears you weep *
You’ll want no food while there von shay
111 shoot you dead if you ask for pav t ’
Now up and go, you scoundrels!—run |
To work or war—your wants are none.”
• ...T.P.W.: Fancy Song of Spring” misses. It’s
pretty verse, but says nothing, new or particularly
we 11.... R.H.: “To the Anzacs” is dreary and bumpy
rot. Why do “friends” always advise people like
you to send stuff of that sort here ?. ... Ripple • Not
up by a long way... .A.8.C.: Verse won’t d 0....
P.S.: ‘Passion” ought to get a hearing.
[lf anything in this column requires a signature,
S. H. Prior, John Barr, E. O’Ferrall and D.
Hie 2 ] 4 Stl ' eet * Sydney ’ *****
Winner of ci Military Cross, Lieutenant
u. i. Bethune, a Tasmanian parson, who
was saving souls at Ranelagh, in the Huon
district, when the lid was lifted off Hell in
IJI4. He enlisted as a private, and later
of «p- E - W. Bean’s article,
The Padre Who Said the Right Thing.”
“Dingbat” (from the firing-line): In
December last The Bulletin told of the
return to Sydney of Corporal E. A. Roberts,
sti etcher-bearer of the 2nd, who helped Stan
Carpenter, of Newcastle (N.S.W.), bring
m five wounded from an exposed part of the
beach at Gallipoli, two days after the Land-
ing. The bearers were being sniped at all
the time, and “the Anzacs reckoned it was
worth a D.C.M. apiece; but the decorations
never arrived. Carpenter later won and
got his at Pozieres.” Here is a postcript to
the story. Roberts won a Military Medal
at lozieres, but it did' not come to light
till he had left for home. Perhaps he does
not know of it!
“The Oldest Inhabitant” sees a friend off:
Over the Divide recently went Phil Mylechrane,
86. He was son of a pioneer of the Hartley district
(N.S.W.), where he arrived in 1832. As a partner
of the late John Ford, later of Hereford, Bathurst,
he ran mail roaches from Penrith, west, in the old
bushranging days before Cobb and Co. (Jim Ruther-
ford, Walter Hall and Frank Whitney) took to the
business. Phil married a daughter of William Red-
fern Watt, of Bumbaldry (nephew of Dr. Redfern, of
Nore Mutiny fame), who represented Carcoar in the
third and fourth Parliaments, 1869-1862. The’late
J - B. Combes, brother of Ned, also married a Miss
Watt. After a turn at mining and pastoral work
Mylechrane formed Goldsbrough and Go.,- and was
for years engaged in “wool.” Likewise he had an
interest in the -turf and kept a string of handsome
thoroughbreds. Among his early jockeys were
“Brickey” Colley, Jim Ashworth and Joe Cavin. A
brother died a few weeks before Phil.


PROFIT BY THE EXPERIENCE OF OTHERS
BUY GOODYEARS NOW
There is an attraction and an
allurement to low price that only
experience can counteract -- we
realise that.
In motor cars the difference in
price is not vital—if we count them
solely as a means of transportation
from one place to another.
But in motor tyres there is no
middle ground. A tyre is either
good or bad.
If it is good, multiplied miles —
pleasant, untroubled and economical
—prove it beyond question.
If it is bad—disappointment,
delay, toil in the dust or mud, and
ultimate extravagance prove it just
as unmistakably.
The man who has not had an
experience with cheap tyres—who
has not suffered such disappoint-
ment and delay—cannot properly
know the folly of surrendering to
the lure of low first cost.
But the man who has - who has
tried it once and learned his lesson
—this man does know, and is
through with the cheap tyre forever.
The Goodyear clientele—the
largest single group of tyre=buyers
in the world—is composed largely
of men of this latter type.
They chanced it on the cheap
tyre, pocketed their loss and then
came to Goodyear.
We are satisfied with this
arrangement; we prefer a man to
choose our tyres out of the wisdom
of experience—such buyers are per-
manent buyers.
But the wise man profits by the
experience of others and saves his
pocket the cost of buying it.
Repeat business almost invari-
ably follows a first purchase of Good-
years—from whatever reason made.
Of course, we could compete with
the cheaper tyres if we chose to. We
have the factories, the facilities for
buying and production, and the
sales volume to meet any compete
tion. Simply by cutting the quality
we could meet them on more than
even terms.
But—we do not choose to cut the
quality. We do not believe it to be
good business. We do not believe a
prosperous future can be reared on
an insincere foundation.
The best proof that our content
tion is the right one is to be found in
the increasing preference for Good-
year Tyres. /Tore motorists buy
them now than ever before.
If you are considering the pur-
chase of a low=priced tyre, perhaps
it is best that you go through with
it now and get it over with. Ex-
perience is always valuable - though
often costly.
ATj/hen you are ready to demand
value given for value received -to
make your tyre purchase an invest-
ment in integrity—we recommend
that you visit the Goodyear Service
Station or Goodyear Dealer in your
neighborhood.
He is there on the ground to sell
you Goodyear Tyres, to show you
how to get the greatest possible
mileage out of them —to help you
in every way to realise the sure
economy such a purchase means.
He knows that your casings
won’t give up their full measure ol
wear and endurance unless good
tubes are inside them— and he knows
Goodyear Tubes enforce this service.
He knows also that the Good=
year Tyre=saver Kit is bound to add
life to your tyres, by correcting little
troubles before they grow big.
Both the Goodyear Tube and the
Goodyear T.S.K. are essential to
complete tyre satisfaction and
generous tyre service—upon which
depend the future of his business,
and of ours.
0
wu
J§JBj
mm
mm
■
■
SM
r
■
*
/■ ■". *-
.
SgfSliC^"
-JP 1 ■ -
■ , kV k - " iWfOy >,\ < <A I*t. , r /' **f?' , « S-i ')' ,
‘i
.v, 'gj 18§®j i® I
.. , ' ' r. ft V ■ r . ,
' v
>1; 4 V»&£jsVr2&-* - '•• vVrto^V’^'fv'
The Goodyear Tyre U Rubber Co. of Australasia Limited
Branches and Agencies in All Principal Cities. - Dealers Everywhere.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Oabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
’ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alina Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TO AY N
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BURWAH (Cargo Only).
Leaves Sydney, May 12.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
J-eaves Melbourne, May 16.
Leaves Sydney, May 10.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May 23.
Leaves Sydney, May 20.
MELBOURNE ,
(Transhipping for j.
S.A. and W.A. ports) I
* Passengers only.
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, May 19.
Full Particulars re, Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hankins;, Public Companies, &e.
THE
Australian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered J 909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITA! £2,000,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Ud £1,198,679
RESERVE FUND £95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 87TlirendneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yabwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smitit, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New' South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
, Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBV (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A.;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo, Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. IT. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches— London, Melbourne, Sydney and
til rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial ganking Do.
of Sydney, [imited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 a
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E, Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)on Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNVARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. • ■ 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. -. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. -500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transact* all other
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
ueual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-KED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACII'IC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), KARA TONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of tiie United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacitte Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,'
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled HoUday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
rtygyjhkjh
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD ,j 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund *
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
rm
WALES.
£3.705.320
£2,725.000
£3,705,320
Directors:
£10,135.640
The Hon. Sir Charles lv. AlacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosbery, C.Ai.H., jVI.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq. ; W. 11. Palmer, Esq,
'Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
838 Branches and Agencies in • the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. ■■ .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRF.CI. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
,T. BHQcnrT.T, FTJFNCH. Genpral Manager.
CommoiwealtbAlJfiank of Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
forTii General Banking: Business pTnckTi
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated arid collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Bank Department
i/-
Minimum
Deposit
Interest at 3 0 /
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June. 1916 DEXISOX MILLER. Oeveruur
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests, The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and SujJper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per ‘lay,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms frcun 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. ÜBE SMTTTT. Manager.
k
B3P
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourn#.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
TheCHIASTOUTESr
The Wonderf”: Old-AVorld War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in Oct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MORPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
MORI ALT A, Saturday, May 12,
RUPARA, Saturday', May 19.
PARINGA, Saturday, May 29.
Transhipping to all other Queensland Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUII.L & CO.. LTD.,
Agents. 6 lilt IDG 12 STREET'. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
“Wimmera/
“Victoria.”
“ Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IX SOLID COMFORT
and
IX FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCHA NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke ltdoms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACI-lARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
"THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Coniuntauon Tickets are issued in conjunction wim.
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Miinvillumbali,
rail to Byron Buy, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. <6 8-. 6<i. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and front Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
1.5.5. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,0C0 tons
T. 5.5. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S !s. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the eniovment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A US.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first’port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co/s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers,
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents. 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
.4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
ian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news front Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Idol*
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


rtygyjhkjh
Just an easy handful of
Kodak Film
will tell the story of vour holiday. There’s film for a dozen pictures in each cartridge, the
weight is trifling.
The Kodak itself slips into the pocket and the picture-making is simple from start to finish.
Press the button —do the rest or leave it to another —just as you please.
The Kodak system does more than simply remove the inconveniences of the glass plate and dark-room methods of
picture-taking—it gives better results. There's no question about the advantages of daylight loading and daylight
development by the Tank method. Thousands of the best professional photographers now use the Tank system for
their work even though they have the experience and the facilities for dark-room work. They have adopted the Tank
because it gives them better results* If it’s better for the professional there’s no question about it for the amateur.
You can take good pictures with a Kodak. Y r ou can finish them well by the Kodak system without a dark-room or, if you
prefer, can mail them at slight cost and no danger of breakage if you wish to have a professional finisher do the work for you.
Kodaks, from 30/= up. Brownie Cameras (they work like Kodaks), from 6/=.
Ask for finely-illustrated booklet: “Picture Making with a Kodak.”
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS, AND
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
319 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Block," 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-253 Queen Street. Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street. Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Blinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street. Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, also Corner Eambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
Here the best-dressed women
wear GOSSARD CORSETS.”
OUR trained corsetieres travel all over the world, demonstrating and selling
Gossards. In practically every town and city they hear women make the
above statement. Designers in the United States, Canada, Austialia,
South America, London and Paris prefer -a Gossard over which to design the
frocks, dresses and suits of their patrons.
Being well dressed means being, first, correctly corseted. The growth of the
Gossard idea front lacing, and style plus comfort and wearing seivice is
because of millions of satisfied wearers. It is quite the thing to say, I wear
a Gossard.”
Gossard Corsets continue to win scores of friends, because the best-dressed
women prefer them and will wear no other corset.
»'*
18
mm
VMi
«*s.
mm
m
Ideal Curved-Back and
Short-Waisted Figures
Should you, through incorrect corseting,
have a poor back line, we suggest a
special Gossard, which will reduce your
lower back or support your abdomen.
In a few weeks you will find your figure
an ideal average.
Thousands of women have made this
experiment successfully.
An expert corsetiere, who understands
your figure requirements, will deem it
a pleasure to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women of Australia
and New Zealand by
Allan & Stark, Ltd.,
Brisbane, Australia.
J. Ballantyne & Co.,
Cashel "Street, Christchurch. N.Z.
Stafford Street, Timaru, N.Z.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd.,
295-312 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Australia.
Harry Davies Co.,
Ballarat, Australia.
Drapery & General Importing Go. of
New Zealand, Ltd.,
Lyttelton, N.Z.
Wellington, N.Z.
Farmer & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Australia.
James Marshall & Co.,
Adelaide, Australia.
Milne & Chovce, Ltd.,
Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
Ideal
Curve d-B ack
Figure.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd.,
King and George Streets, Sydney, Australia.
Ideal
Short- Wats ted
Figure.
\
■m't
■ Utt
rtygyjhkjh


MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
THE
CHANDLER
AIX
“I heard a really remarkable story recently about
a really remarkable performance of an equally remark-
able car,” writes an Atlanta (Georgia) man. “Dr.
J. W. Livingston, of New York City, told me the
story. I refer to Dr. Livingston as being from New
lork City, when, as a matter of fact, the doctor
simply has his headquarters in the Big Village and
trots from one corner of these old United States to
the other, and sometimes, if the notion strikes him,
he ambles up into Canada for a change.
“The last time Dr. Livingston passed through
Atlanta he purchased a brand-new Chandler Six.
Goes 6725 Miles Over Bad
Roads Without Costing
Penny for Repairs!
Then the travelling bee got into his bonnet and he
burned the trail from here to Canada. But I am
getting ahead of my story, and I’ll let Dr. Livingston
tell it. I quote him accurately, I think, but I can-
not make it so entertaining because I cannot draw
the vivid picture that he did in his pleasantly charac-
teristic manner. The doctor said :
“ ‘I left Atlanta in my new Chandler and travelled
through the Virginia mountains to Washington, D.C.
“ ‘From Washington I went to New York and up
through the New England States. Business called
me back to New York, and I spent a day there and
PRICE
£490.
left immediately for Buffalo. From there I went to
Hamilton, Ont. Then I went to Montreal, thence to
Quebec, to the Thousand Islands. Upon my arrival
there I returned by exactly the same route to Atlanta,
and when I rolled into the Southern Saxon garage my
speedometer registered 6725 miles, and I hadn’t spent
a penny on the car exceot for gasoline and oil.
“ ‘lf that isn’t a remarkable record I never heard
of one. I have owned more costly cars than the
Chandler, but I have never owned 'a better one. I
wouldn’t sell my Chandler for $lO,OOO if I thought I
couldn’t buy another one.’ ”
MARCUS CLARK CO. LTD.,
SOLE AGENTS.
S» A sS£ GE and showrooms — l 62 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
IN BANANA LAND
Slumber Wins Again.
The enfranchised democracy of Bananaland
rose in its might on Saturday, and
ascending the ballot-box gave loud, frantic
cheers for Dodder. Also on that date
Premier Ryan discovered that he had fallen
heavily into the soup, and that the next best
thing for him to do was to knock off being
a smart Alick and slip a piece of ice under
his hat. The rejection of the proposal to
abolish the Legislative Council followed
naturally upon tactics that reached the very
limit of futility. Apart altogether from
whether the poll was legal—which in itself
is very doubtful —and whether it had any
constitutional force, the moment was about
as badly chosen as if the selection had
been made by the Council itself. Ryan's
immediate case against Dodder was lost in
the larger issues of the Federal elec-
tions. Instead of it being a wise
move to drag the subject forward on
Commonwealth election day the step
was ludicrous. Ryan calculated appar-
ently that the fact of the State electors being
called upon to vote on an issue appealing
directly to such radical opinion as the State
contains would harden up the Labor vote
for the House of Reps, and Senate. What
be did not realise was (1) that the hold of
Labor on State politics as revealed by the
votes cast at last election is mighty pre-
carious; and (2) that in the Federal arena
the tide had been running the wrong way.
That this plebiscite represents the measured
opinion of Bananaland about the House of
Dodder is almost incredible. But it reflects
fairly accurately the opinion of the electors
about Ryan and the tremendous cleavage
created by the earthquake originating at
Melbourne. This is not what the Govern-
ment wanted to find out. But it has spent
huge wads of the taxpayers’ cash to make
the discovery and as the thing stands now
Dodder looks as if it could take charge of
the situation and make ribald remarks about
the Ministry and everything associated there-
with. Meanwhile there is the cheerful cir-
cumstance that while Australia generally
has pushed a Phewsion majority into the
Senate, N. S. Wales has just added a wierd
assortment of individuals to the Leg. Council
of that State on life tenures, and the public
of Bananaland has shouted for all the world
to hear that the local Fossils must be left
to fossilise till the crack of doom. All of
which this paper sorrowfully admits is a
fairly substantial wallop for those well-
meaning citizens who have spent most of
their lives holding Fossildom up for public
inspection. The days of Fat are apparently
going to be long in the land.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, P. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214' George
Street, Sydney.]
“Marloo”: The Bananaland tick is crawl-
ing southward all the time. The officers in
charge thought they had the pest cornered
in certain limits which were quarantined and
cleaned. Everybody in the hunt was smiling
when late April despatches reported the
appearance of the enemy in the South Wood-
burn district between the Richmond and
Clarence (N.S.W.). In less than a week
the inspectors located badly-infested herds
on five different holdings 20 miles south of
the pest’s last known outposts. In northern
N. S. Wales these outbreaks have been
mostly unaccompanied by redwater, but re-
cently two or three slight attacks of this
scourge have appeared. If someone doesn’t
deal brother tick a clean knock-out he will
presently boss the whole coastal area, where
the valuable dairy herds graze. Then you’ll
hear the stricken cow barons howling !
“Boro-Belle”: The absence of child labor
in the sugar country as compared with the
cow districts is due not to any kindness of
heart of the sugar cocky, but to the oil-
engine. It does almost everything on the
sugar-farm except cut the cane. It works
the chaffcutter, saws wood, ploughs, plants
cane, pumps water, hauls the cane-trucks
along the portable tramline to the nearest
permanent track leading to the squeezing
null. It even takes the boss’s daughters to
the dance and brings them home again. One
engine, which for years drove a tug on the
Pioneer River, later on took a turn ashore,
hauling some 20 tons of cane along a tem-
porary tram track where roads were too bad
for horse haulage. This year it is to be tried
at cane-cutting.
Another coincidence. While a recruiting
meeting was in progress at the Brisbane
G.P.O. the other day a bushman pushed his
whiskers through the crowd and mounted the
platform in response to the appeal for Bill-
jims. After the applause someone was heard
saying: “That’s my brother —I haven’t seen
him for nine years.” The recruiting-sergeant
caught the words and threw out a line. “Too
late,” said the interjector. “I’m in camp
already.”
Warwick is mourning two of its leading
representatives on the Big Job. Major
Arthur Chambers, light horseman, enlisted
in the first month of the war and saw a fair
share of the Gallipoli argument. Thence to
Sinai, and fatal!v hit in the battle of
Gaza. The other is Lieut. V. Watkinson,
a volunteer who went to the Peninsula in
1914. Afterwards to France, and has been
missing since early April.
BEFORE IT WAS HERS.
HE: “What beautiful hair she has!"
SHE ( sweetly , in the background): “Yes-but it looked even more beautiful in the
window."
After residing in North Queensland for 49
years, William Graham has succumbed to
the awful climate. Age, only 82. He was
at the Palmer in its palmy days, and was the
first man to take a team from Bowen to
Cloncurry.
Exit at 56, William Maguire, police sub-
inspector. He started business in the
Leinster Infantry Regiment, and spent a
few sweltering years in India. Pie
joined the Queensland John Hop service in
’SB, and, as drill-instructor at the Petrie
Terrace depot, spent 15 years cursing large-
footed recruits. Later, he did duty at Allora,
Gympie, Brisbane and Charleville.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 5, 1917.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
The air about me resounds with cries of
“liar” and “traitor” ; and everywhere is the
uncomfortable general insinuation that the
whole place is sunk in the depths. It is
election day and both political parties are
using the same slogans of vituperation. Vot-
ing is a complex business; and all day
females with a fluttered sense of having done
their civic duty have been straying out of
the booths only to discover that they had
forgotten the Local Option or Legislative
Council polls. Feverishly anxious to tear out
the useless portion of the constitutional
machine or smite Bung under the fifth rib,
they have charged back to demand papers
from the wrong official and to keep up the
pleasant sense of confusion which women’s
franchise ought to supply.
Mrs. Jim Irving gave a party at the Coo-ee
cafd on Wednesday for Gladys Moncrieff,
Minnie Love, Nellie Payne and some of the
other J.C.W. girls; and the guests dragged
away scantily-clad kewpies as souvenirs of
the event. Beatrice Yaldwyn, who belongs
to -these parts and counts her relatives in
scores and her friends in battalions, has also
been heavily tea-ed all the week.
The foundation stone of the Residential
Club for Returned Soldiers and Sailors is
to be well and truly flanked in mortar on
May 24; and cash is to be raked in for
the club funds. This show has been a long
time getting started; but now, with a real
memorial stone under it and plenty of
enthusiasm surrounding it, the job should
not hang fire any longer.
Has anybody seen a Billjim who was “kind
friend” to Nicholas Flett, killed in action
November 15, 1916? Mrs. J. Flett, Wood-
vale, via Bendigo. Vic., is advertising for
him in Bananaland papers.
Presbyterian missionary Noble McKenzie,
who has been converting the heathen in
Korea for the last seven years and who for
15 years before that spread the Word to
brown brother in the New Hebrides, is with
his wife in Brisbane. It seems a fair thing
that he should have an occasional look at a
white man’s country.
Died on Friday, James Chapman, head of
Chapmans, Ltd., aged 79. He was a popu-
lar man with a repute for straight going,
and had been a member of the Fire Brigade
Board, vice-president of the Chamber of
Commerce and president for many years of
the Queensland Flying Squadron. He first
smelt the heather at Kintillo, Bridge of
Earn, Scotland, but got a whiff of eucalyp-
tus as far back as 1864.
Still more crepe. Mrs. H. C. Cleeve, who
has a son on the Courier literary staff, died
this week. The old lady was a fine conver-
sationalist, and, as she came to Australia in
1852 and spent her girlhood in the Marooeli
district at a time when binghi was very
wild, she had much to talk about. In her
day Mrs. Cleeve was a fine horsewoman.
Mrs. Alex. McPhie, whom Bananalanders
once knew as Miss Carpendale, of Grantham
station, also died last week. Her eldest
son is with the A.1.F., and a brother is with
the forces that are hounding the last rem-
nants of Teuton-armed nigger t« a finish in
German East Africa.
The committee of the 26th Battalion Com-
forts Fund tea-ed Lt.-Col. and Mrs. Fer-
guson at the Botanical Gardens kiosk on
Wednesday. The Colonel maintained a
glowing silence about himself, but talked
with a lot of enthusiasm of the things his
'‘boys” did at the Somme. As a result of
their display of pluck and muscle they had
gathered in two awards of the D. 5.0., two
Military Crosses, five Distinguished Con-
duct medals, 11 Military Medals and IS
mentions in despatches. The Lt.-Col. was
severely wounded last August and has a
D.S.O. of his own; but he would rather
walk into a mac|iine-gun ambush than men-
tion how he got 'the ornament.
The Mayor gave a reception at the Coun-
cil Chainbers on Wednesday in honor of the
recent successes of the Brisbane Austral
Choir which is the champion choral con-
spiracy of the State. At the Warwick
Eisteddfod it chortled everything else to a
finish, and gathered in nearly every prize
that could be won.
The Governor unveiled an honor board at
the Lands Dept, the other day. The decora-
tion is framed in Queensland silky oak with
a panel of red bean, and displays 83 names.
It was explained that 67 per cent, of the
eligible men in the Department had gone to
the Front. How’s that for a record?
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Another well-known Brisbane man who
passed over this week was A. H. Frew.
Although over 60 at the time the present
war started, Frew felt keenly enough about
things to try to enlist and when the Aus-
tralian military people turned} him down he
removed his whiskers, dyed hismair and tried
again in England and France. He came
back to Queensland, via the United States,
bitterly disappointed at his rejection. A
lot of railway construction works in the
North and elsewhere took shape under
his theodolite. The Chillagoe, Etheridge,
Atherton and Normanton to Croydon lines
were his, as were also those at Mount Mol-
loy and Mount Garnet; and he has it to
his credit that he was the first engineer to
tackle railway work for the Government by
the day-labor system. After the S’African
racket he did survey work in East Africa.
R. D. Frew, another Bananaland engineer
of repute, is his brother.
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrali,,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bilitv.l


...
Mil
,
. Irl
■ >:n-
'j ;4 -I
s * v
a
lag
1 :
)
t
■
m
& 111
A
■V,
m
m
\
IIM
General Focri
;
I
| s*'
'
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whis
&CLt6ari6
°tcfx
cot'ch
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Foch is one of a new series of drawings specially executed
for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely free from
advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set of \2 will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or \2 penny
(Commonwealth) stamps. . As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a
set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A
7%.
2 %
% 2
m
C
%
%
€
%
1 K.
/\fo |fl
VM'jt
%


Keep the Home
Fires Burning
a-.
wm*.
3¥r •■■
gas
wmm
■ s»”
With the advent of nippy
nights one's thoughts natu-
rally turn to warmth and com-
fort.
The home fires, as generally
understood, are in the fire-
places, around which is the
genial hearth, but the Ideal
Heating System is as its name
signifies.
In simple language, it consists
of a specially-constructed
boiler and pipes for conveying
hot water to specially-designed
Radiators, which should be
placed in every part of the
home, flats, hotel, institution
or building where warmth is
desired.
Thus, instead of the only place
of warmth and comfort being
just around the hearth, it is
every place where necessary—
living-room, bedrooms, hall,
landings, etc.
One might think “How costly
the extra comfort!” Not so,
it is by far the safest, most
economical and satisfactory
Modern System of Heating.
One boiler will heat many
Radiators. No engineer re-
quired.
Call and have it explained,
or write for particulars to the
Sole Agents and Distributors.
99
“DANKS
Otherwise John Danks 8 Son Pty. Ltd.,
“THE HOME OF HEAT AND LIGHT,**
324 Pitt Street, nr. Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
391 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCKE. TOMTSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
15
I
Perfection
of Cleanliness!
Nothing but Bon Ami cleans
perfectly enough, to be used
on mirrors. Mirrors show the
slightestspeck. Bon Ami, how-
ever, leaves the glass without a
trace upon its flawless surface.
Eon Ami is ap-
plied in the form
of a creamy foam,
whichdriesonthe
glass to a soft,
white powder. A
dry cloth then wipes off the
dry powder, leaving the glass
beautifully clear. No tire-
some polishing and rubbing.
No streaks or smears. No
scratches.
rtygyjhkjh
At your Grocer’s.
©
The mark of super/or
motor- car service
rtygyjhkjh
rtygyjhkjh
The mark ofsitperfo*
\jmotor wr^emcf
Hupmobile Conforms to Best Standards of Two Hemispheres
WHEN you purchase a Hupmobile you have the satis-
faction of knowing that you have purchased a car
which conforms to standards approved by the whole world.
The best European practice in motor car construction has
entered just as much into the building of the Hupmobile
as has the highest American standards. The best is
adopted wherever it is found.
In proof of our statements, look at the Hupmobile. Its
lines are European lines. Consider the Hupmobile motor.
It is four-cylinder and has always been four-cylinder.
And tile Hupmobile manufacturers believe, as most Euro-
pean manufacturers and owners believe, in four-cylinder
power, simplicity and economy of operation. In many
lands the Hupmobile is known as the “ European car at
an American price.” This is an apt phrase which describes
that added carefulness which enters into Hupmobile con-
struction that surer appreciation of beauty in design
that recognition of the value of comfortable riding qualities
and luxurious appointments in combination with a price
that unusual production facilities has made lower than the
average price of cars in the Hupmobile class.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater, sedan, and 5-seater and 2-seater with detachable winter tops. Motor: Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (32in. x sJin.).
Transmission: Three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch. Rear Axle floating; type, spiral bevel g;ear. Cam shaft arid crank shaft bearingrs bronze shell, babbitt
lined. Lons wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on 7-seater). Tyres 875 x 105 m/m or 3*in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 4iin. on 7-seater. Eleetric
starting; and lighting;; ventilating;, ra'n vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting; side curtains; door curtain carriers; deep upholstery: speedometer; ammeter; robe rail, foot
rail and carpet in tonneau; non-skid i vres on rear; five demountable rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full set of tools. Magneto igrnition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki
hood and seat covers at small additiona cost over list price of car.
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Dealers In Australia and New Zealand —
I. FHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


“BIFF” Means Comfort
and Contentment
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
Wl
To those who are troubled with sore, tender, ach*
inf?, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling feet,
chilblains, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF”
will bring quick relief. “BIFF” is a scientific com-
pound which draws out all poisonous matter from
the pores of the skin, leaving the skin in a per-
fectly healthy condition, to perform its natural
functions. This unique compound will render
the feet sweet and antiseptic.
EXTRACTS from Unsolicited Letters
"I suffer terribly with large Bunions, and ‘BIFF’
is the only thing that has given any relief.”—
Mrs. A. F., Victoria.
"It is just splendid for the feet. 1 had very little
fai'h in it till I tried it.”-Mrs. L. C., Qld.
"Through ‘BIFF’ I can manage a four-bar gate.”
—Mr. H. L., N.S.W.
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowel?
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
rtygyjhkjh
Carters
MTTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—-Small Dots—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Grey Hair —Home
Remedy.
An-old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has only
to get from the chemist two ounces of con-
centrate of tammalite and mix it with three
ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair with
a small sponge for a few nights and the
greyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations w T ith most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula.— Advt. [2
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
owner, A. FINNIOAN.
BRISBANE
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, fust off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s, a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK * SONS Representatives^
gfe-. <r
10
2
9
8
BIG BEN
7
5
6
Had to go to 15/-
Big Ben always
has in stock a big
supply of the ma-
terials needed in
his construction.
This and orders at
favourable prices,
placed well ahead,
have helped him off-
set doubling and treb-
ling material prices.
He thought to see it
through without changing
his price to you. He’s
done his best, but recent
increases force him to ask
more for his services.
For the present and till further
notice, his price will be 15/-.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial—a cheer-
ful, deep-toned voice—large, comfortable
winding keys—a light running movement
with watchlike escapement—an alarm
that calls steadily for five minutes or in-
termittently for ten. At all clockdealers.
La Salle, 111, U.S.A. Western Clock Co. Makers of Westclox
Other IVestclox: Baby Ben, is/-; America , 61-; Sleep-Meter, 816; Boy proof Watch, 6/6.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
7
•"X
r,
s
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
prettv shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set oif by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able, it reallv is a “find” in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostock ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostock No.
Q9BOO
825
m
None genuine
unless stamped
"Bostock."
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
KJ
v:
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Two Points about Bostock’s Shoe Polish—.
worth rememberingt—FlßST: It gives a quick, brilliant and lasting polish.
SECOND: It nourishes and preserves leather. These two reasons in themselves
should be sufficient to
induce you to at least try
BOSTOCK POLISH
Colors: Black, Brown,
Dark Brown & White.
In Tins, 6d. Creams, in 2oz. Tubes, 6d.; 4oz. Bottles, 4/-
Sold Everywhere.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
SPIDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The white-haired, mild professor said
Of this peculiar spider,
When her first warm affection sped
She seized her husband by the head
And he was soon inside her.
The male then served as nourishment
To fortify the other.
A grave-eyed student, sitting bent,
Said, with a sigh most eloquent:
“How like a woman, brother! ”
VICTcRU.
SILAS.
“Lip” tells how Australia led the way:—
Towards the end of 1915 a clearing station (the
second of its kind) left Australia for foreign parts
with one or two extras amongst its equipment. The
first was a dynamo for electrically lighting- its
wards and the second an X-ray apparatus. Arriving
in Egypt, it was dumped in the Desert on the Asian
side of the Canal ready for the threatened Turkish
attack. When the pill-Colonels and Generals realised
that the d —d Australians intended to do jobs in the
field that were usually saved up for base hospitals,
they galloped about demanding explanations. Confis-
cation of the things and their transfer to a base
hospital was threatened. But the station hung on to
its goods, and eventually got with them to France,
finally finding a resting-place in a cow-paddock in
Flanders, a few miles behind the trenches. In a
month the cow-manune was cleared away, a swamp
filled in, duck-board paths laid, and the station ready
for business. On the opening night close on 900
casualties were treated and passed on in under 12
hours. Now the wounded man who is suspected of
concealing “foreign bodies” about his person is
whipped under the crackling tubes, photographed, and
presently goes on to the operating-theatre. When
he wakes he finds himself between snowy sheets with
any souvenirs he had in the way of bullets, shrapnel
or shell fragments in a little gauze bag tied round-
his neck. I’ve seen more than one life-or-death opera-
tion performed with the surgeon guiding his knife
by means of the X-ray screen. Since the winter
started and frostbite and “trench feet” have begun
to make gaps in the ranks, the utility of the dynamo
has been extended to a. high-frequency jigger (made
on the premises) to restore the circulation to Bill-
jim’s numbed toes. That somebody had learnt the
lesson became evident a little while ago when the
station was asked if it had any spare electricians
who could be transferred to other clearing-stations to
instal electric-light plants. Advance Australia 1
The N. S. Wales Testator’s Family Main-
tenance Act, passed last year, has just shown
a tine disregard for the vile testamentary
wishes of a man who died leaving a widow.
86 and nearly blind, two elderly daughters,
and a thin little £444, out of which only £25
was to go to the widow' and £10 to one of
the daughters. The balance was to be cut
up amongst churches. The new law snort-
ingly upset the will, ordered a regular 35s.
a week to be paid to the widow, and what
remains of the estate when she dies will be
cut up between the daughters.
Arthur H. Adams gives away a signed
guarantee of its veracity with this: —
After all, Life is more wildly melodramatic than
“The Story of the Rosary” ; and the hairy paw of
coincidence intrudes more often than it does even
in “Turn to the Right.” I was lunching with a
Sydney man at a cafe. We selected a vacant table.
In the middle of our lunc’h another man entered and
took one of the empty seats. Neither of us knew
him. I happened to ask my friend—whose son, a
lieutenant in France, had been reported seriously
wounded —for particulars of the casualty. He told
me a graphic story of the advance by moonlight, of
his son being shot in the abdomen, of his having
been hastily given first-aid by a chum of his, who
managed to. stow him in a shell-hole before con-
tinuing in the charge. Later, this good Samaritan
heard that the stretcher-bearers had found and re-
trieved the officer from No Man’s Land, and that he
had been sent to an English hospital. A common-
enough yarn, perhaps; but I noticed the stranger
listening eagerly. Still, l would listen with the
same attention to any such yarn. At the end of the
story the stranger quietly introduced himself. “I’m
the father of the boy who bandaged up your son,”
he said. Just here is where the melodramatic play-
wrights, including myself, go wrong. Instead of a
moment of tense emotion, followed by a warm clasp
of the hands and a few broken words of thanks, the
two men merely stood up and shook hands in the
conventional way, muttered a “Glad to meet you!"
and returned to their cold roast duck. The rest of
the talk was desultory, and the scene ended with the
other man reaching for his hat and nodding us a
“Good-day.” No curtain, no climax, just cold roast
duck —and it was excellent cold roast duck. Evi-
dently the fathers of Billjim take these services to
each other as Billjim takes them at the Front. What
worries me, though, is that in a recent play I had
put in a similar situation; but now I’ll have to re-
write it and make it chiefly cold roast duck.
“Murkah”: Recently a returned soldier
who had lost a leg was, among others, an
applicant for the position of rate-collector to
the Benalla (.Vic.) Water Trust. In the cir-
cumstances the ballot could very well have
been done without. But it was proceeded
with, and resulted in the man who had done
his duty achieving one vote, though the work
was well within his capabilities. A shire
rate-collector receiving a salary of £270 got
the job, and the £75 per annum it carried.
It’s time we took some practical measures to
gibbet people who do things like this.
As the Toorak tram pulled up at Bourke-
street an elderly passenger thrust her knit-
ting and ball of wool into her muff and
started kerbwards. As she reached the path
the ball of wool was jolted through the end
of her muff find bounced off unnoticed. The
strand connecting it with the muff soon
became taut, and the wool started to pursue
its proprietor, tangling itself with all sorts
of hurrying legs. Two sundown beer-
drinkers emerged from an adjacent pub, and,
seeing the ball of wool approaching, lurched
forward to field it. The first missed it by a
short length and hiccupped on towards a
verandah-post; the second planted one boot
heavily down on the wool and instantly a
scarf ' attached to the other end of
the wool leaped out of the muff. By
this time a stray brown-and-white mon-
grel had managed to entangle himself
with the strand, and his excited revo-
lutions only tethered him the tighter. As
the scarf fell the point of a needle came down
on his rump, and he left for home at 40
miles an hour trailing the scarf and 100
yards of wool behind him. The elderly
Toorakese stopped, shrieked and told the
policeman on point-duty that she had been
robbed by the I.W.W.


. Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy, Melbourne,
26th April, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Timber to the
Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Sydney. 1917-1918.
fIIENDERS will be received until 12 noon
~L on Wednesday, 27th June, 1917, for the
supply of timber to the Commonwealth
Naval Dockyard, Sydney.
Tender form, specification, etc., may be
obtained on application at the Office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; The General Manager, Common-
wealth Dockyard, Sydney; and at the Naval
Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birkenhead (S.A.),
Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Tim-
ber” on top-left-hand corner of envelope, and
addressed to the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; or the Director of
Navy Contracts, c/o one of the above-men-
tioned addresses, as the case may be.
Tenders in all cases to be on the printed
forms, which can be obtained as above.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 26th April, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of an Electric Jib
Crane for Workshops, Henderson
Naval Base, Western Australia.
AMENDED NOTICE.
TENDERS will be received until Twelve
noon, 16th July, 1917, for the supply
and delivery of an Electric Jib Crane for
Workshops, Henderson Naval Base, Western
Australia. Delivery to be made f.o.b.
Fremantle.
Tender forms, specifications, etc., may be
obtained on application at the office of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; and at the Naval Staff Offices,
Brisbane, Edgecliffe (Sydney), Birkenhead
(South Australia), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Jib
Crane” on top left-hand corner of envelope,
and addressed (if by post, prepaid), to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; or the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, care of one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Mining Frlfmln.
PARTRIDGE.— If Miss EDITH ANN PARTRIDGE,
1 last head of in 1903 from Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, will communicate with the Trustees, Executors
and Agency Company, Limited, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne, she will learn something to her advantage.
McNALLY. —Information is sought re-
garding the next-of-kin of PATRICK
McNALLY deceased, formerly a Railway
Ganger, who is reported to have died at
Charters Towers in 1883.
Please address to
Y. H. MILLARD,
Solicitor,
Orange, N.S.W.
Estate of Susannah Josephine Dennett,
Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given, that any person
able to give information regarding the
whereabouts of HENRY GEORGE DEN-
NETT, formerly of Tackandah, in the State
of Queensland, who was last heard of at
Birdsville in the said State in or about the
year 1900 should at once communicate with
die undersigned.
Dated this 26th day of April, 1917. '
OWEN, ROLLISON & ABBOTT,
Scottish House,
King William Street,
„ . . Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Public Trustee, Adelaide.
mm
ifPlras
U/ILLIAM ERNEST COOKE, who was recently in
the employ of Mr. Buchanan, of Tallangatta,
Victoria, should communicate at once with Messrs.
LOM E & CO., of 2 Temple Gardens, London, England,
Solicitors, who have news to his advantage.
rtygyjhkjh
THE “SMITH
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In
stantly detachable.
\oj’ll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
WE are ready to allot territory for
Amazing New Invention. mar-
vellous ADDING MACHINE—Retails £2. Adds
—subtracts —multiplies. Does work of £6O machine.
Five-year guarantee. Offices, stores, factories buy
from one to a dozen. Enormous demand. Splendid
Profits. Write quick for trial offer and protected
territory. DEPT. X 4 CALCULATOR CORPORA-
TION, Grand Rapids, Michigan, T7.S.A.
Amusements.
Hurry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Tail.
Governing Director HUGH D. MciN'l’OSH.
■piVOI.I THEATRE. SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE
TiVOLI EOLLLES
and
MTSS YERA PRARCE.
Plan at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
“J"I VOLI Til HATKE, ,M HLIiOUKNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
BRILLIANT COMPANY. HEADED BY
MISS ADA REEVE,
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
■-I 15 It SI A ,J I? S TV’S, S Y I> N E X.
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 1.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSONS »
Greatest of Pantomime Productions,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Pin ns at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s,
p ALAOB THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.
J. and N. TAIT'S NEW COMEDY CO.
in
TURN TO TH K RIGHT.
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Box plans at Nicholson’s.
KINKMACOLOR.
ADDINGTON’S GRAND THEATRE,
ww Fitt St., opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
WILLIAM J. SHEPHARD presents
THE WONDERLAND OF NEAV ZEALAND
COMMENCING SATURDAY, 12th.
THE FIGHTING FORCES OF EUROPE
and
JOHN BULL’S EMPIRE.
Popular Prices. Plan at Paling’s.
\A/I RTH S ’ NEW HIPPODROME.
ww HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 o’clock.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and all Holidays.
WIRTIIS’ GREAT CIRCUS AND
MENAGERIE OF PERFORMING
WILD ANIMALS.
Boole your Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s, 5/-
Other seats 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, plus war tax.
Children Half-price, except Gallery.
Thone 1234 City.
rtygyjhkjh
-TKIANfiI.E I‘L.WS at
1 THE I,YCKl T M,
PITT STKKKT, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.in. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6>d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. IVuiiiixoTQN Miu.ek, Managing Director.
Von haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJNION PICTURE THEATRES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best (ilins.
Continuous Performances. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to lI-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. IbutitiNuToN Mii.i.kr, Managing Director.
UKR MAJESTY’S THEATRE, .MELHOURN’E.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 12.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. revive the successful and
popular musical play,
SO LONG LETTY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TT II E A T It E R O Y A 1., M E 1.150 U BN E'
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
A NOTABLE ENGAGEMENT.
MARIE TEMPEST
PUN IiLOPE.
Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S TIIKATICE. ~l E I.UOU RNE.
1 Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
THE FULLER RECORD-BREAKING
PANTOMIME,
THIS BI N Y IP.
Special Prices: 4/-, 8/-, 2/- and 1/-
Amusements.
KINGfS TIIKATKE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY,
VEHY GOOII RDDIU.
A RIOT OF LAUGHTER.
Produced by BARRY LUPINO.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C. 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
l/l A .JEST IC THEATER MELBOU UNE.
'* Entitled THE “BITTER TRUTH.’’
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
MISS BILLIE BURKE,
In the Fifth Feature of
GLOIUA’S ROMANCE,
__ Entitled THE BITTER TRUTH.
|y| ELBA MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s best films, in-
cluding the productions of Fox. Vitagraph, World,
Paths, Selznick and Mutual-Chaplin.
BRITANNIA THEATRE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
rtygyjhkjhrtygyjhkjh
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
For Skin Eruptions
and Sores use
Vaseline
Trade Mark Registered
Oxide of Zinc
Combines the wonder-
ful curative properties
of zinc oxide with the
soothing, healing qual-
ities of “Vaseline” Jelly.
For sale at all chemists
and general stores, in
handy, sanitary tin tubes.
Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
Business Notices.
rtygyjhkjh
ABBEY SHOES-
the footwear that is worn by well-
dressed men everywhere. They are
made on our own lasts, in the most
exclusive models.
In half- and full-sizes, and in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
We illustrate a very smart All-
Patent Oxford Shoe. Very highest
grade.
30/- & 35/-
Tan Willow Coif, 27/6 and 30/-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
rtygyjhkjh
This is a. Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
Sl'
The Perfect Complexion
depends on the quality of the toilet powder used.
and impure powders are positively harmful,
Inferior
Perfumed Talcum Powders
are recognized everywhere as the purest. Nothing so quickly
destroys a woman’s, fresh and delicate complexion as the con-
stant daily use of toilet powders containing injurious chemicals.
Mennen’s Scented Talcum Powders
Pure —refined —free from foreign matter—deliciously perfumed—are considered by an
increasing number of the fair sex as the safest and daintiest toilet powders. They can
be had in a Variety of Tints and Perfumes.
Insist on the Genuine Mennen s s
Borated Talcum Powder. At
oil Leading Chemists and Stores.
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
Sen Yang— With a seductive yet ijlusive odor of the Orient,
Flesh Tint— Exquisitely perfumed with the odor of Roses, and
delicately tinted pink.
Violet— With the dainty scent of the delicate "Violette de
Partne.”
Cream Tint— A “Rachel” powder, cream-colored and scented
with orange blossoms.
rtygyjhkjrtygyjhkjhh
rtygyjhkjh


ECZEMA CAUSED
im SLEEP
Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
“A group of pimples formed on my
little son’s legs, and also on his head.
It was really a kind of eczema. He
scratched the pimples as they were very
red and inflamed. They got worse and
became wet eruptions. The eczema on
his head caused some of the hair to fall
out, and the whole scalp seemed diy.
It also caused much irritation and loss
of sleep.
“I tried Cuticura Soap and Ointment
which soothed the irritation at once. In a
fortnight the eczema had disappeared. ”
(Signed) Mrs. E. Ralls, Runa Runa,
Hokianga,N, Z., Sept. 15, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
TWO
L/NES
# TS
S
I#
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
fiNO
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
rtygyjhkjh
ffim
520GEORGES'" SYDNEY
Is fIONTER S T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES'
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL’
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs T.S. Black
Powder and i£ oz. of shot.
rtygyjhkjh
ELEY
’3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
rtygyjhkjh
ELEY 38
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS.
420. George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
jDeauty
Hints
7
ft
■
t
<£
\
THE SECRET OF A
GOOD COMPLEXION.
By MME. ST. CLAIRE.
Any woman nowadays may quickly reju-
venate her complexion at home by a safe and
painless process of gentle absorption. The
days of expensive and dangerous “operations”
are past, and each woman can be her own
beauty doctor. It has been discovered that
ordinary mercolised wax, applied like cold
cream, at night, will cause the thin veil of
lifeless, sallow or blotchy cuticle to gradually
and gently flake off in invisible, flour-like
particles, revealing the fresh, vigorous and
beautiful young skin underneath. Mercolised
wax absorbs only the unhealthy and un-
sightly outer fi’m, and does not affect the
healthy tissue at all.
The process defies detection, and unveils
a lasting and beautiful complexion, which is,
of course, a perfectly natural one. For this
purpose thousands of women are now using
mercolised wax, which may be obtained at
any chemist’s. Naturally the process also
removes all such surface blemishes as
freckles, blotches, pimples, tan, liver spots,
etc. It makes the face look years younger
and prettier, and renders the use of face
creams unnecessary.
Another valuable piece of information,
which' many women will appreciate, concerns
the success of the new treatment for super-
fluous hair. A remedy for permanently erad-
icating this ugly form of facial disfigurement
now seems to have been found. It is simpli-
city itself. About one ounce of ordinary pure
powdered pheminol, which can be obtained
at any chemist’s, is all that is needed to put
one in the way of completely ridding oneself
of superfluous hair. When applied to the
obaoxious growth this causes it to immedi-
ately disappear, and the continuance of the
recommended treatment is said to finally
destroy the hair roots, so that there will be
no renewal of the growth. 15
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and 'Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting- Ropes and
other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing- and High-pressure Stocks
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, Sydney. a. mayne heron, Manager.
Mg.
W&s
rtygyjhkjh
V-
>l
>
£2
ArM
DEMOSTHENES
If Demosthenes were alive to-day all his
oratory would be insufficient'to proclaim
the full virtues of “Plume” Spirit to the
world. Motorists have learned to rely upon
“Plume,” they know its value.
Plume Motor Spirit
Eastj Starting—Sweet Running —More Miles
“Plume” is sold all over Australasia, and
wherever it is sold it is of the same high
quality. Gives more miles to the gallon,
an easy start, and keeps the cylinders clean.
Correct Lubrication
Gargoyle Mobiloils have the correct body
to maintain the necessary oil film over all
the working surfaces. Write for free
Recommendation Chart, which shows the
grade you should use in your car. “A grade
for each type of motor.” For sale at all
dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
10
VQ/LO^
rtygyjhkjh
The Inky Way.
“A.C.” : Jimmy Martin, just passed out in
Ballarat, was the plumpest working press-
man in Australia. It was sheer joy to see
him try to squeeze into an armchair at a hos-
pital-hoard , meeting and not quite succeed.
I recollect, too, with what envious amaze-
ment he used to gaze at the remarkable F. T.
Outtrim, secretary of the Tullaroop (Vic.)
Shire Council, who, at well past 70, could
streak up and down stairs faster than the
most joyous office-boy. At that time capable,
good-natured Jimmy was the whole crew of
the Maryborough STANDARD, his last job
before leaving active press work for a little
printing joint. Previously, he had been on
the Age, Ballarat Courier and half a dozen
country sheets.
“Flayer” : Harold Ashton, one of J.C.W.’s
staff, just dead, was 58, a widower since ’9O,
addicted to silk hats, cigars and catching
cold, and at the back of his mind harbored
a bitter contempt for the stage and the
boom, insincerity arid glorification of banality
associated therewith. He viewed his calling
as an advance guard with the cynical tolera-
tion of a man of the world, and wrote the
long paragraph loaded with adulatory slush
and waited to see what happened to it
much in the same spirit as a butcher might
prepare the pile of sausages and speculate
on the destiny of his handiwork. In Maori-
land he had known' every pressman from
Auckland to the Bluff for over 20 years—-
and had loaded them all with pars. He used
to turn up three or four times between New
Year and Christmas with details of the
pending attraction and a determination to
tell all about it in a column per day for
14 consecutive issues. One sub. startled him
clean out of his wits. He sent to do the
opening notice a chap who travelled after
politicians, as a rule, and had a cold eye.
Harold knew him, and seeing him enter the
theatre felt a chill running up and down his
spine, for it was a fairly dinky show apart
from the dresses and scenery. At the first
interval he invited the emissary of the
Daily Yell to have a drink, and casually
inquired what he thought of the production.
“Rotten!” said the unemotional critic.
Harold made even time for the sub “Look
here, old man, I don’t want to interfere, but
if that chap Flayer cuts loose on ‘The Girl
with a Squint’ I’m done absolutely, and the
season ruined. For Heaven’s sake satisfy
yourself that he is right in his judgment.
Ask somebody else.” The worried _ sub.
fobbed him off and turned to his nightly
slaughterings’. Harold never slept a wink
that night and was up at break o’ day to
get a Yell. The critic had anointed “The
Girl with a Squint” with the oil of gladness.
# # • *
“B. J.” : Lord Lucas, who was killed while
doing his bit as a member of the air service
in France, has set a precedent by leaving
£3060 to Hilaire Belloc and £lOOO to G. Iv.
Chesterton. Perhaps some of our wool or
quartz kings will follow this lead. Still, I
wouldn’t advise Bedford to wager his hat or
“Bellerive” his reputation on it.
* * * *
From an old Londoner in the same trade:
Frank Burnand ran on the same lines as \V. S.
Gilbert, but he didn’t run so gracefully or so far.
Both of them were called to the Bar as very young
men, and neither of them ever had any practice to
speak of. They both began their connection with
the press by writing for Fun when H. J. Byron
was editor; but whereas Gilbert’s first Bab Ballad,
“The Yarn of the Nancy Bell,” was refused by
Punch before it appeared in Fun, the other man
wrote for Fun before he went over to Punch.
Burnand was the earlier writer for the stage, but
only in one instance did he get in front of his
brilliant rival as a satirist. His comedy, “The
Colonel,” a satire on what was called “the aesthetic
craze” at that intensely stodgy period, preceded Gil-
bert and Sullivan’s “Patience.” Burnand never
struck a rich reef of humor as Gilbert did, but in
a lesser degree he was as versatile. He wrote 120
plays of one sort or other, and some of them
brought him a lot of money. Australia has seen
two or three of the best. “Betsy,” a farcical comedy
that Brough and Boucicault played, was one. When
Arthur Garner returned to Melbourne many years
ago, and tried his luck in management at the Bijou,
ho produced Burnand’s serious comedy, “The Turn
of the Tide,” under its sub-title of “The Morals
of Mayfair.” There was some good stuff in this
and in many other things that Burnand wrote, but
he never scored a great artistic success. He was
humorous rather than witty, and he hadn’t a keen
natural taste in dramatic effect. As for his editing
of poor old Punch, well, he had to take Punch as
he found it, a laboriously “comic” paper that had
been born at the dullest moment of the dull Vic-
torian age, and was expected to try to live up to
its past. Nevertheless Punch flourished exceedingly
in Burnand’s time, though many rival publications
of the same kind withered and died.
EQUIPPED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He found himself a cosy room,
A shaded lamp to banish gloom;
A splendid desk he bought, with nooks
For paper, pens and little books.
He used the best typewriter known,
A fountain pen set with a stone.
The blackest kind of ink he had,
A most expensive writing pad,
And copy paper by the ream
Of which a simple bard might dream.
Now being furnished for the strife
He faced the literary life.
And then for years he sat and wrote—
A poem or a little note,
A novel or an epic grim.
They all came drifting back to him.
He thought his writings very fine,
But. no one cared to print a line.
“What is’t,” he wondered, “that remains?”
He’d overlooked a pinch of brains.
One day he died, and in a den,
Upon a box, with borrowed pen
A scamp wrote out his finish fit,
And quickly got three quid for it.
victoria.
BILLY T.


■r ■
HI
Hi
m&i
-
susm
m '
2 3
2^3
„
r
f-O.C'J
The NEW EDISON
brings c omf ort into the home
during the long winter evenings.
Music in the home, during the evening, soothes the nerves and soon
makes you forget the cares and worries of the day.
The NEW EDISON Re-creates music exactly as originally rendered
by the artist. It is NOT a talking machine; it is a musical instru-
ment with a soul. Indeed, music-lovers admit that it is “the most
wonderful musical instrument in the world.”
Everyone greatly enjoys The NEW EDISON, and the more critical
your taste the higher it will stand in your estimation..
Write to-day for complete details of this, Mr. Edison’s greatest
triumph; mailed post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES
9in. Centre
Gap Bed Lathes
Specially Designed for General 8 Motor Engineers
With or Without Suds Trays.
Beds—B feet and 10 feet*
MAIN FEATURES —Cantilever Bed, Powerful He&dstock,
Interlocking Saddle, Handle Quick Change Feeds Motion,
Hollow Spindle, Machine-cut Gears throughout.
Proprietary Limited
Bathurst Street,
SYDNEY, N. S. WALES.
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 57 YEARS.
,
$
t i-v 4
Sporting'
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
rtygyjhkjh
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 211 b
(Postage—-N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
13/6
rtygyjhkjh
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating' Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon barrel. 22 calibre rim fire, magazine
takes 25 short. 20 long, or IS long rifle cartridges, case-hardened
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight, 5J11). CIO/
take-down. Carriage paid
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
rtygyjhkjh
“Suitable for small game and target shooting
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, slide action, 4 gL
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
I
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel ; weight, 4Jlb.; 30/-
LdilUlcj ——III. Udl it i j "
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
35/-
mm
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sflb. ..
55/-
m 3
“Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all, 37|in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b. . .. ny If
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.) “ • / O
‘ Sure Catch” Anglers’ Guide & Price List Post Free.
Esssa
3SE
“A suitable weapon for the hoy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
22/6
New Edition Sports and Firearms List—Post Free.
rtygyjhkjh
One of the hardest-liitting 22 cal. rifles
837. Remington Automatic
Rifle, Model 1(1, 22 calibre, take-down action, leng
Inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sflb.
Delivered,
Remington Auto Cartridges for above. 30/- 1000 ; 3/.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
on the market.
Hammerless
tli of barrel 22
£5
100.
rtygyjhkjh
SUNOL TOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
11d. post free.
A perfeci rabbiter’s rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or
H long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open .
front sights: weight. Delivered 55 l m
rtygyjhkjh
The rifle to select for your own use.
822. “The Savage” Repeating Hammerless Rifle,
1914 Model, 22 calibre, rim Are, 24in. octagon barrel,
slide action, demountable, pistol grip, handles short, long or long rifle
magazine holds 20 short, 17 long or 15 long rifle cartridges; lengrh
over all 40in„ taken apart 274 in.; weight, about s|lb Delivered,
cartridges;
£3/12/6
rtygyjhkjh
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 2£lb
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight...
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
Model,
21/-
• 26/-
New edition illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl), also “Sure
Catch” Anglers' Guide ( Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one
or hoth lists. They are money savers.
1C
J
• •
msnauas greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
and TOBACCONISTS
rtygyjhkjh
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St i also at
liencastk. I Brisbane


CHARMING MISS MACGIE DICKENSON
Praises Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment
m
Miss
MAGGIE
DICKENSON,
the delightful
dancer (from a
photo by
Monte Luke).
There is simply nothing to equal
your Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Lini=
ment, and I really do not believe 1
could get along without it, 1 have
always found it so reliable and it
acts so quickly, I have used it for
Toothache, Neuralgia, Sore Throat
and Burns, and have found it
simply splendid for each of these
troubles. It is wonderful how it
stops pain, and how quickly it
heals, and as a rubdown after
dancing it is unexcelled. It is a
wonder to me everyone is not
using it, for it so clean and pleasant
and acts so quickly. Already 1
have recommended it to dozens of
my friends, and I can assure you
that 1 always will.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) MAGGIE DICKENSON.
BANISHES ALL PAIN.
Pain' in any form, be it Neuralgia, Rheumatism, Backache, or a Stiff Neck that
pains if you so much as move—all these pains and more are easily controlled by
•Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. Not an internal remedy, but a rub-down, work-
ing through the pores of the skin, Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment . penetrates
goes into the seat of pain, and banishment is the result. Apply the Liniment with
the palm of the hand; rub until the friction creates a warm glow, and the pain
leaves you as if charmed away. Life should not be spoiled by pain and suffering
when Dr. Sheldon’s Magnet c Liniment is ready to RELIEVE ALL ACHES AND
PAINS. The ever-ready family remedy. Is. 6d. and 3s.
ft
sfie/desi's
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
rtygyjhkjh
t~\o YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
\vhen you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron Jelloids’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS No. 2 A
For Anosmia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS' No. 1,
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/".
bcn'Moutim
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds) .
V
N 9 l«'
THE BEST RAW MATERIAL
HONEST MANUFACTURE.
REMEMBER!
HORROCKSES
rtygyjhkjh
WILL OUTWEAR THE
HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED AS
SUBSTITUTES
SEE
*“HORROCKSES”’
ON
SELVEDGE
*.e
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Revelation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PAN went by with his rout —
Rough hair and a woodland shout —
And a pink-white nymph between
The boles of the elm-trees seen.
Pan and his rout 'went by
And we did not care;
For Athene’s robe in the sky
And Athene’s voice in the air
Drew us with clearer eyes
To the thing that was fair and wise.
Bacchus went down the way.
We saw the thyrsus swing
And the Maenads madly sing
To the clash of the cymbal’s play.
Red wine spilt on the sod ;
And a twisted ivy crown
On the brow of a sotted clown
Lush riot hailed as god.
Bacchus went down the way
And we did not care;
For Delius stooped to play
And the music of his lyre
That flooded- sky and air
Set heart and soul afire.
Plato walked in the streets — *
Still look and a shoulder 5t00p....
Oh, the woodland was full of sweets;
And the winding river-loop
With the shade of a willow tree
Mocked his philosophy.
Christ and His cross went by,
World-passion in His eyes
And a look as meek and high
As the dew-star in the skies.
Christ and His cross went by ;
But we did not follow the cry
Of grief or of unbelief,
But sat in a quiet place
Reading the Book of Grace.
Ares blew on his horn !
Thunder of guns on the wind !
Death at the flush of morn,
Death Avhen the night was blind!
Rivers of ruin red !,. . . ,
Pan with the rout he led,
Bacchus in lust of wine,
Plato with thoughts’ fine line,
Christ daily crucified —
How the world ached and lied!
Ares blew on his horn !
And our heavy souls were born
From the shadows of yesterday
To the truth of the beasts that slay,
To the truth of the asp and toad.
To the truth of the ass and the goad,
To the folly in you and me
That lives from eternity.
For a pint of blood or so
Is all that we are or know.
If it be truth, slow won,
That a man is less than his gun.
N.S.AV.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
“Ore in Sight.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FATHER HANRAHAN was bound for
his new parish in the new green
township of Cowville after being sun-
dried for a dozen years as the priest of
many North Queensland mining-towns,
where everywhere he had made good among
the miners, being always a man, and a
priest in season. His face, weathered red
and made comfortable by a cheerful heart,
was his unfailing letter of introduction; the
blue eyes laughed, the mobile mouth
laughed; he laughed even with his spatulate
nose. On the Palmer and the Gilbert and
the Woolgar and the Coen he had perfected
the art of robbing the rich to give to the
poor. The lame dogs of the North gravi-
tated to Father Hanrahan as if gravitation
to him was their only trick ; in such cases
Father Hanrahan made his rounds and
separated the strong from money enough to
give the latest lame dog a splint. He hated
but one thing, and the less he had of it
he hated it the' more —that sectarianism
which belongs to cold countries where chil-
blains are common and the continuous uSe
of handkerchiefs imperative, and which dies
on the boundaries of new mining-camps and
great distances.
Fifteen years of mining-camps had left
him with a heavy arterial pressure. He
had friends in the South, as in the North,
East and West, and they insisted that the
sight of green grass and a parish that knew
a winter was necessary to him. So Father
Ilanrahan was sent south and west 2000
miles to Cowville. It is green even to many
of the people who are the only cruel things
in it. They give their children to the
slavery of the cowbail; in the township
itself their chief pleasures are skinning flints
and comforting themselves with the hope
that some of their fellow-townsmen have
permanent appointments after death with
the worm that dieth not and the flame that
is not quenched. Yet Cowville is very
beautiful, and on clear days in the keen
air of early Spring you can see the snow
on old Macedon. So here was Father
Hanrahan at Spencer-street, in the Ben-
digo train, his blood chilling to air colder
than that of the North; his fingers
mechanically playing with the medallion
hanging from the chain that was a presenta-
tion of the miners, w*ho had given also the
big gold watch that bulged his waistcoat
pocket. He stopped playing with the
watchchain and turned around and around
on his left little finger the big pearl-and-
gold ring—the pearl of Torres and the gold
of York Peninsula—given him by another
lot of men who had liked the priest because
they loved the man.
He had yet five minutes before the train
started; but methodical habit had brought
him to the station so early that he had read
the evening paper and rose to take from
his bag the best Irish novel ever written—
to be read by him now for the twentieth
time —Gerald Kickham’s “Knocknagow, or
the Graves of Tipperary.” He turned to
the chapter of “The Hunting of the Wren,”
and smiled at Burney’s boast of having
missed killing the wren though he had
"knocked a hatful of feathers out av him”
—smiled as at an old friend. And then he
raised his eyes as the clamor of departure
awoke the platform, and did indeed see an
old friend —an alert, sinewy little man with
a greying, short moustache* and very bright
■ and humorous eyes. He carried a rug and
magazines, and a porter with a suitcase
followed him.
“Hey!” cried Father Ilanrahan, and as
the traveller turned in pleased, surprise—
“Misther Godwin.”
“Father Hanrahan! It’s good to see you,
Father. Any room?”
“Boom- for five —come you in and be all
of them.”
Godwin boarded the train, entered the
compartment and shook hands with Father
Hanrahan. They were old friends of the
Northern goldfields, and they talked of all the
rushes until the train slowed into Sunbury.
They talked old friends fo Gisborne, and
beyond there Godwin told the Father of his
job near Cowville —the sampling of a gold-
dredging proposition on an old field aban-
doned ’way back in the middle ’sixties.
Father Hanrahan got his punch in al
that point. “Be more thorough, me dear
Godwin, than you’d be at the Angle Bend.
Y’know that time you sampled the Angle
Bend in Big Creek, an’ they salted the boxes
on you.”
Godwin flushed, but he laughed too. “It’s
a good thing a friend says it, Father. I
trusted that lop-eared gentleman who did
the salting, and I fell in.”
“An’ who would blame you for your con-
fidence in human nature, Misther Godwin?
On’y a bad, unthrustful man would. But
God sends bad men into the world to make
good men careful.”
“I know. But it was a good thing I
found it out before any harm was done.”
“So it was, so it was. But didn’t I tell
you at the time what you knew before, an’
that is any sampling is imperfect except
the kind you’re going to use in ackshual
practice an’ operation! What ye wanted
at the Angle Bend was” sharfs, an’ then put
all the dirt from the sharfs through a Long
Tom. That was your only thrue samplin’.”
“I know, Father, and I did it the second
time to check the results of the bores. And
I took the bores in good faith.”
“If there’s one thing mine samplin’ should
have no dealin’s with ’tis faith—good or bad.
Y’ can’t have the thrue religion without
faith, but there’s no religion in minin’,
though there’s a lot in miners.”
“Where you have religious miners I
believe you have to search them twice a
shift in specimen mines, Father,” said
Godwin slyly.
“Didn’t I say the thrue religion—answer
me that! Of course I did. But in min : n'
y’ must trust nothing but the tape an’ cnkl
blooded samplin’. Look at some of thim .
men talkin’ ore in sight an’ thryin’ to mak»
a sum out of one figure. Y’ can’t measure
ore in sight unless ye have four side,*
exposed. ’Tis flyin’ in the face of honesty
an’ Providence to estimate ore in sight if
one dimension is concealed —I would never
do it.”
“You don’t know, Father. Hope springs
eternal in the human breast, and a man is
more sanguine in a boom than a slump. Put
the right excitement around him on a new
field, and only a lizard will refuse to give
the new field a sporting chance —a warm-
blooded man couldn’t.”
“No, no! An’ here we are at Ivyneton
an’ I’ve talked like a boastful new-chum to
a man about his own job. Ah, me dear
Misther Godwin, if I could find a man to
teach me humility I’d guarantee to teach him
astronomy, though I don’t know Sirius from
Alderboran.”
* * * *
From their little wayside station they
drove a dozen miles through bird song, quiet
beauty and mid-spring to Father Hanrahan’s
new cure of Cowville. The road rose and
fell gently through green grass, stone pines
and brown furrows, with new wheat, pale-
pink hedges of the dog-rose, lambs butting
on lush hillocks, cows suckling calves knee-
deep in strawberry clover; yellow ribbons
of capeweed ; peach and apricot blossom fall-
ing to the breeze: a row of poplars ram-
parting a ditch and saying “Normandy,” find
a cypress in the little country cemetery
speaking of death and Italy.
To Father Hanrahan, burned with the
years of the Northern mines, it w r as a wide,
great, endless oasis. Godwin, prepared for
it by the continuous change of scenes in his
wanderings as mine examiner, the drive
touched little less nearly. Y r et Spring is
always new even to a pensioner; and a pen-
sioner finds change or death almost impos-
sible.
“ ’Tis Heaven,” said Father Ilanrahan.
“ ’Tis Eden come to earth again—green as
the raths of the old land, and tender like
a mother that feels every cry of the child.
They told me there was bitter black sec-
tarianism here, but ’tis wrong. It couldn’t
be thrue with all this bounty from the good
God to soften men. Look at the lamb there
fightin’ his brother like a divil. An’ a crow
there on a dead lamb’s eyes—the Divil’s
here, too. And why not when he got into
Paradise?”
“That capeweed is gorgeous,” said God-
win.
“ ’Tis the only time I saw yellow with
beauty in it, then. An’ see! the capeweed
an’ the grass don’t fight.”
“Yes, they do, Father; the capeweed can
kill even couch grass.”
“An’ couch grass is the devil. Well, well,
and the beauty of it all. They wrote me
there’s a deputation of the congregation to-
morry night at the presbytery. Come you
along. Godwin dear, an’ it will seem that I
brought with me to Victoria some of the
dear hot sunlight of the North.”
* * * *
Father Hanrahan received the deputation
of the congregation with his usual kindliness
but a new dignity, for he could not yet
warm to the temperature of his friendship
for the more natural men. the miners and
prospectors of those new fields where indi-
viduality is capital and men count for more
(Continued on next page.)


■
H
KIDNEY DISEASE
Why is it so Serious? Poisonous Waste is
Left in the Blood when the Kidneys are 111.
Every Picture
Te/Is A Story *
•W : »
\ '--S
V&X-Sk
V/
Kidney disease is serious because it is so little understood. Many men
and women do not know what the kidneys are, where they are, or what' they
do. Consequently, when any sign of kidney disease appears (such as
backache, urinary troubles, puffy swellings, irregular heart, etc.) it is often
mistaken for some other trouble, and the kidney complaint grows, unnoticed,
into Bright’s disease, diabetes, rheumatism or dropsy.
The least sign of kidney disorder, therefore, however trifling it may
seem to you, is a serious sign, for it shows that the kidneys are not keeping
your blood pure. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for the kidneys and
bladder only. They drive out clogging impurities, ease the tired membranes,
and build up the kidneys’ strength. Men and Women of all ages can place
faith in this great kidney medicine. Safeguard your blood-filtering organs,
and begin with the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills when there is
any such serious sign as urinary trouble, backache, dropsical swellings,
dizzy spells, rheumatic pain, sciatica, nervousness, sleeplessness, feebleness
or languor.
Cured to Stay Cured.
A SYDNEY MAN
Mr. Jos. Goddard, 6 Windsor Street,
Paddington, says:—“For some time my
health was far from good, due to the fact
that my kidneys were very disordered. I
knew this to be the case, as I had aching
pains in my back, was always tired and
languid, and could not sleep well at night.
When- I first began to feel off-color I did
not bother about it, thinking I would
soon be all right again, but this is where
I made the mistake. I got worse instead
of better, and by the time Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills were recommended to
me I was suffering a good deal. A friend
advised me to try these Pills, so I got
some and after taking them regularly for
a few days my health began to improve
and by the time I had used five bottles
I was cured. I feel grand now, thanks
to Doan’s Pills.
A SYDNEY "WOMAN
Mrs. H. Sturgeon. 70 Marlborough
Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, says:—“lt
gives me great pleasure to say a few
words in praise of Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills. For a good while I was a mar-
tyr to Kidney trouble, the symptoms be-
ing backache, urinary disorder, and dizzy
attacks. My back ached fearfully, and
every movement was accompanied with
a twinge like the stab of a knife. The
kidney secretions were cloudy, and scalded
a good deal in passing, this symptom
clearly showing my kidneys were very
much out of order. I heard good reports
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so
decided to give them a trial. The first
bottle gave me relief, and by the time I
had used three bottles I was cured, and
I have been well ever since—a period of
over tw r elve months.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per bottle, or will be posted on receipt of price by Eostei’-McClellan 00.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Backache Kidney Pills
ECZEMA
A Lasting Cure by
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. H. Watson, sen.. 206 Australia Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says: “A
couple of years ago I had Eczema break out badly on my chest. It was shortly
after I returned from a trip to India, where I had p;one with horses. I had fever very
badly in India, and the Eczema seemed to be the result of this sickness. It was
very severe, and spread rapidly until I was in such a state that the pain and irritation
nearly drove me mad. When I went to bed at night my sufferings were worse, and it
was nearly morning before I could get to sleep. A man I know advised me to get
Doan’s Ointment, saying that he heard of excellent results from the use of this
preparation. 1 thought it a good idea, and obtained a pot. The first application was
cooling, and the second soothed the itch, and after that 1 got along splendidly. Every
time I applied the Ointment there was a marked improvement until I was quite cured.
Within a month from the first time T applied the Ointment not one trace of the
ailment remained. Doan’s Ointment is a splendid preparation for Eczema, skin
irritation, to take inflammation from, the skin, and to heal.”
Ten years later Mr. Watson confirms the above: ”It is now ten years since Doan’s
Ointment cured me of Eczema, and I am pleased to say that the cure has stood the
test of time. lam still quite free of this dreadful complaint.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
than money. - Also he had proved in one
day’s knowledge all the forewarnings of the
bitter sectarianism of his new parish as less
than the truth. Godwin, entering the pres-
bytery from the garden where one great
green shady walnut tree told all the softness
of the Spring, saw the seriousness in his
face replacing the chronic cheerfulness and
wondered; but not for long.
The congregation by its deputation wel-
comed the new priest, and Father Ilanrahan
rendered thanks and returned to seriousness
immediately.
“Me dear friends, - ’ said Father Ilanrahan,
’’l'm glad to be among ye, for here I see a
great work to be done if me eyes see thrue,
as they need to do. I come from the Far
North of the Commonwealth ; from the primi-
tive ends of the Australia we love so well,
the Australia that God kept secret and
alone except for the poor black men until
free men from all the world should be ready
to come to it. Up North I met men who
struggled with the rocks for gold and with
the sea for pearls; who fought hunfler and
thirst, somethin’ for their own winnin’; but
much that they didn’t know of for the good
of the dear mother Australia. There
was not much religion in them except the
best—the religion of love for the other man,
an’ especially when he was ill or in trouble,
hungry or thirsty, or poor—but their kind-
ness was a church that was never built with
hands. The country was cruel to them till
they tamed it; 50-mile, 80-mile stages with-
out water; brazen sky, incandescent, scrubby
grey sand to make a furnace of the sun’s
rays, trees without shade, the world crepi-
tatin’ in the heat. An’ they met it cheer-
fully, gold or no gold; an’ typhoid fever, or
breakbone fever, or dysenthery or the dog
disease gave you a mor’gage on the heart of
nearly all of them. Suppose one well man
had said to another of -a sick man, ‘lie’s a
Catholic! Don’t touch him’; or ‘He’s a Wes-
leyan—pass him by’—the first well man
would not have been a well man long. Ilm !
11m ! Out of all that hardness of inanimate
things and that kindliness of nearly all men
to their neighbors, I come here to all this
beauty and beneficence —the birds liltin’, the
lambs buttin’ other lambs, the cow and the
calf knee-deep in the clover and the grass;
every wildflower, every hedgerose singin’ ‘Te
Deum,’ the yellow of the capeweed and the
green of the corn growiu’ together in kindli-
ness and amity. An’ then I find in one day
that so lost is the lesson to ye of the charity
of Nature here and the gracious expression in
the meadows and the fields of the eternal
goodness and love of Almighty God that this
township is torn with sectarianism—Orange
and Green, and all the shades and the schisms
and the tinctures of both —the Wesleyan
fightin’ the Presbyterian, an’ the Baptist
fightin’ the Anglican, an’ all of them fightin’
the one thrue religion, universal and catholic,
the Church of Rome.
“When I left the old land I thought I had
left the black and bitter curse of sectarian-
ism, and I find it here—introduced to the
freest land on earth with the fox and the
rabbit and the gorse and the whin and the
old hates and class misunderstandings which
are a greater curse than any pest, animal,
vegetable or—or —mineral. Oh. me men, me
brethren, ’tis terrible.
“So. knowin’ you were cornin’ to-night, I
determined to speak to you of this matter:
to show you how the returning of God’s love
for you with hate of any of his creatures is
black ingratitude an’ mortal sin. I will say
this for the Catholic, that in this saturnalia
of sectarian hatred he is the last to blame.
But do ye think that is any credit to ye?
Ye know ye have the only thrue religion, an’
therefore ye should harbor no black thoughts
of people of other congregations, because it
should be enough for men of the thrue
religion to know that the others will burn in
hell fire! An’ isn’t that enough for ye, ye
wicked an’ perverse generation? Answer
me that!
“Now, this thing so exercised me mind
that I searched for a homely illustration to
bring the full horror of the curse of uncharit-
ableness home to your dear thick skulls; an’
passin’ under that great umbrageous walnut
tree in the presbytery garden here that typi-
fies the goodness and the beauty of the God
who made us all, I idly plucked this green
walnut that I show you after takin’ it out
of me pocket, an’ God put it into me mind to
see in the free sections of this walnut the
Free warrin’ sects of this beautiful township
of Cowville.
“Now, here we have the husk—the green,
bitter uncompromisin’ husk, useless for food
for man or beast, without any charity or
kindliness. It is Wesleyanism, an’ I tear it
off an’ throw it away. (Yet all Free sections
of the nut are necessary to the fruit). We
.come to the shell —the greater necessity to
the kernel itself, protected by the lesser—-
tlie husk. The only value of the shell is that
by diggin’ beneath it, by breakin’ it open
an’ discardin’ it, we progress from the lialf-
lie to the whole truth. The shell, except for
the protection of the kernel, is without
value. It has not even bitterness, it has
not even an essential oil; it is but the coffin
of the glorious body. In this shell there Is
no charity or usefulness or nutrition. The
shell is Presbyterianism. An’ I break it
open an’ show you”
The strong fingers with the northern
miners’ ring flashing on the little finger of
the left hand broke the shell open.
The nut was rotten!
* * * «
“ ’Twas a sad ending to the discourse,”
said Father Hanrah'an. when the deputation
had departed, “an’ thank ye for the decorum,
Misther Godwin, though I knew ye were
dyin’ to laugh.”
“Mining, ’ said Godwin, slyly, “should
only be approached after careful and cold-
blooded sampling. Faith is out of place in
demonstration.”
“Now, Godwin, dear.”
“Bores are no good—shafts should be sunk
and dll the dirt put through a Long Tom.”
“Well, you’re a hard-hearted”
“And yon mustn’t estimate ore in sight-
unless four sides are exposed.”
“Man, dear, let me down softly, an’ I’ll
make the presbytery produce the whisky,”
said Father Ilanrahan. setting out the
decanter and the seltzogene.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Over the Top.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“THROWN there?”
ij “Yes, sergeant! What’s up? Tea
ready?”
"Look lively and clean your rifle. You’re
going over the top with me to-night. Wiring
party.”
“Gor’struth! What, me again?”
Private Brown grabs the first rifle he sees
and curses under his breath.
After dark we creep over the parapet and
flounder until we reach the wire. Shells have
torn a gap through it; iron posts stand
gauntly, with a few twisted strands and
stumps of wire sticking to them.
“Strike me pink! Do a bloomin’ route
march through it, couldn’t yer?” «
"Sli! Stop that there !”
We unroll the coil with stifled curses. A
Very light goes up from Fritz, and we
crouch among the prickly thistles in the
mud. As the light dies down we carry on,
fixing posts, fastening wires, and filling in
holes with many turns and twists. A strafe
breaks out on the left and the lights go up
iu showers until the front looks like the
promenade at Manly. We crouch, our knees
soaked through, our hands and arms covered
with mud, scratched and bleeding. Brown
catches his trousers on a barb, tearing a
great hole.
“Dear mother,” he remarks gently, “this
is a terrible war. Your lovin’ son, Bill.”
A Very light curves close to the party. A
machine-gun spits, the shots, traversing
along the wire, striking sparks, with a nasty
ping. Just before the ijhots reach the party
the gun stops.
The party straightens up again and
remarks "Dud.” This happens two or three
times—hooray, the party is outside the arc
of the gun! This realised, we take no
more notice of it, and the wire begins to
look shipshape.
Then a Bosch sniper gives ns his atten-
tion. The covering party gives its attention
to the sniper. The Bosch gives his attention
to the covering party. One of our flank
machine-guns gives its attention to the
Bosch. So things grow lively; but risks
must be taken now and the wiring goes on
until the gap is closed.
“Pack up !”
One by one we crawl back and drop ovi r
the parapet.
“Had a nice evenin’. Brownie?”
“Oh yes, if it hadn’t been for the blasted
thistles!”
Private Brown always did have a fine
sense of proportion.
BILL BOWYANG.
The Dancing Heart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SWUNG slioon and the bend of the ankle.
the lift of the curving hips,
■ Strong shoulder thrusting the wind-
waves, and the kiss of the air on
the lips,
Planets prone in the star-dust like glimmer-
ing globes of steel,
And the throbbing blood in the temples
which answered the plodding heel;
Bruised flowers and crushed green grasses
told well how the strider sped
Who quested the swerve of the old grey hill
when the blithe heart danced ahead.
The nibbling rabbit heard him, and crouched
in the dew-wet grass;
The ground-lark wakened upon her nest, and
quivered to hear him pass;
The drowsy kine in the hollow tvHce caught
at the rolling cud
When the strong, strong feet strode down-
ward at the beck of the singing-blood ;
And a gay song welled and gathered from the
curve of a singing throat
Chaste and cool as the star-white dew which
clung to the swinging coat.
Glances brighter than star-gleams upflashed
from the valley-place;
A moon-white song took moon-wliite wings
and sped from a moon-white face;
Up through the wind-swept rushes it sang on
the knee of the hill,
And the dancing heart danced downward and
the strong feet knew its will;
Flowers and grass and star-beams, the call
of the young night there
Told of a white brow flowing with foun-
tains of night-black hair.
Then Love took hold of the shoe-strings, and
stronger the strong feet paced,
Treading the curve of the hillside, soft as the
girlish waist;
Fragrant paths of the hill-world, ribbons of
ripest brown,
Twined round the feet of' the strider and
hurried him down and down;
Yet ever the - heart danced onward, fleeter
and lone and gay,
And ever the blithe song left his lips who
travelled the Lover’s way.
Five little hillside pathways met at the high
hill’s feet,
Whispered a while together and joined in an
ordered street:
Smothered their high-world laughter, yield-
ing the town its due,
And the strong feet followed after when the
dancing heart danced through ;
And a thousand town-moons glimmered
when the town was lit and late,
And the panting dancing-heart stood still
outside an ivied gate !
Steps on the steel-grey pavement echoing
near and near.
Beating time to a love-tune sweet to a moon-
white ear ,
Strong brown hands through the night-air,
stretched where the bright heart stayed,
Claimed it his princely dower, to give to a
queenly maid :
And the Love-path sang on the hillside, for
the path the blithe heart trod
Led to a place where four bright eyes gazed
straight in the eyes of God.
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
»
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
rtygyjhkjh
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves sper cent, on
Automobile
Fire Insurance.
Price 55/ ■ each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
- isnmawwc rourt.
BEECHAM’B
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. w Time tells
all things” says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10£d (36 pills), 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (IGB pills).
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.' Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHCRC AVON TYR£S ARC MAD£
f
rV?
WE
QL
C* (y .*
V
<r
Sr
X
v
jx
t*
u
W i
if--
ft
%übb
Afelksham. l/Jih
von
cr
r
Ss
*
#
✓
S c/«
;
**
r u
a
99
/
-
&4?
>r
German soldiers complain bitterly that their important transport service has been heavily
handicapped by the rubber shortage In Berlin, shop after shop is filled with
handsome cars which are tyreless."—D. Thomas Curtin in The Daily Mail.
JIT There is food for reflection in the fact that British
jJ Avon Tyres, though “sour grapes” to the enemy,
are helping to win the War for the Allies, and are also
available for the public convenience and commercial
transport throughout the World —even if in restricted
quantity. Get on the side of victory in your transport
troubles by fitting
jn
&S&
Sra.v
m
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HAMMOND & CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney;
H. C. PANNIFEX, Melbourne; QIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide;
THE QUEENSLAND fIOTOR AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tire Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
rtygyjhkjh
Used since J5!)6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
rtygyjhkjh
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
ed—when you feel “any-how”
—when your nerves are “on
edge ’’ —when the least exer-
tion tires you —you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘ Wincar-
nis’ gives new life and new
vitality to a “run - down”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a four-fold
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
rtygyjhkjh
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
1 Wincarnis.’
Don't continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘ Wincarnis ’ way —the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get well
TO-I3AY.
•Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN k CO., Ltd., Win-
carnis Works, Norwich. You can
buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists
and Stores selling wines, prices
4/3 and ?/-, but if you experi-
ence any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett & Johnson, 233
Clarence Street. Sydney, N.S.W.


NGROVIT
LEATHER
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
tt alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advloo and Prloe List on application.
Ask for“DOUBLE EXTRA” Steel
The Finest Grade of Steel for all ordinary purposes
that can be manufactured. Strongly
recommended for work where
High Speed Steel is
not employed.
rtygyjhkjh
rtygyjhkjh
rtygyjhkjh
rtygyjhkjh
rtygyjhkjh
rtygyjhkjh
rtygyjhkjh
rtygyjhkjh
SUPPLIED
BARS SPECIALLY
ANNEALED for EASY MACHINING.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
DICK S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & CL<AY LTD.. Newcastle. [1
WOLFE’S
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNAPPS
’S
Machinery
Department
MILLER’S POINT.SYDNEY
High-grade & Popular Agencies, comprising the following lines—
m
Tangyts friable oil engine
TANCYE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam
Engines.
TANQYE Bailers, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps, Jacks, etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction
Engines.
WOLSHLEY Sneep Shearing Machines & Cream Separators.
NiGHJLSON & MORROW Farm Implements.
<JOH N BUNGLE & SON > CnafTcutters & Corn Crushers.
E.R.B. Separator Engines. CANE Milking Machines.
m
m
Clayton Portable Steam Engine.
Catalogues ported free.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
m
■fursnimli —'S. &h. ~Bai iSI jKl*'
sks® i
ii-Mfet
nine
z
Buncle Travelling Chaffoutter.
SHEEP SHEARING'MACHINES
The “Wolseley” is the world’s standard, and is always a
profitable investment. Breakdowns, unnecessary delays are
avoided, and smooth, efficient working, on a low cost of upkeep,
is assured.
Obtain full particulars of this superior machine.
Address your inquiries to the nearest branch.
Australasian Agents: Dalgety & Company, Ltd.—Ail Branches.
tethe
n of these WHEEL
rtygyjhkjh
and see how the Wheel is well under the Barrow, due to double bend
in the frame, which means that the load leans heaviest upon the wheel
and not on the operator.
Trays are Best-quality Steel, stamped out of one piece, and beaded
round edge.
Tubular Frames pass right round, protecting the wheel, and act as a
“tip” for forward dumping.
For Hard Service Iri Mines, Mills, Furnaces,
Smelters, Railways, Gas Works, etc.
We offer them as the Most Substantial, Cheapest and Best
Wheelbarrows on the Market.
PARKE <&. LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
1
a
o
p
You cannot Afford Waste and Loss in Your Power Plant. Effect Immediate
Economy by Installing
THE EVERLASTING VALVE
section or value. Babcock & Wilcox ordered as many as 200 in one month for Boilers. The Case
Threshing Co. ordered 10,000 in one year. Used by Chemical Works, Paper Mills, Hydraulic Companies,
etc. These values spell ECONOMY,
EFFICIENCY AND DURABILITY.
INI. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE ST, SYDNEV.
