

Whisky ot txquisite
B. G. WATKINS & GO.,
Machinery Merchants,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
CSV-
Cldt/cmce,
emeu-
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY /]
BILLS DISCOUNTED y
/ TERMS €> LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&1.C9 LTP
HEAD ornce: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
• Ik
’ in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty’
VALUABLE FOP TAN
AND SUNBURN J
SYDNEY.
K
m
i
rn
Take it back
liavr*
HUTTON’S
gdf
HAMS ®
BACON-
CHUBB’S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
■TiSfifl
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RURESEFI CO,f 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
“Not the same as others ”
AcMfa* 1
WATER- '
WEATHER.
FUME-
PROOF.
Lei's send proof.
The material that tahea
the place of lath and
plaster in interior finish-
ing- Let us send samples
and illustrated booklets.
g
The
Tte Paint Company, Chall is House, Sydney. (D. s. Evans, Aust
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL- & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
METAL. & FARM WAGGONS. IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
GRANVILLE.
N.S.W.
dfg
V
Machinery Merchants. Head Office—Circular Quay, Sydney
“Robey” High-class Steam Engines, “National” Gas, Oil and Suction Gas
Road Graders, Scoops and Plows, Nestable Corrugated Metal Culverts
Church Organ Blowers, Malleable Pipe Fittings, etc., etc.
Engines, Steam Waggons,
Concrete Mixers, Discus
ALSO MODERN MACHINERY FOR
Road Building, Earth Handling, Elevating and Conveying, Stone Breaking and Pumping and
irrigating. Drawings and Suggestions gratis upon receipt of Requirements.
Brisbane Agency t AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street
df
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
g
lavender
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 38.—N0. 1928.]
[Thursday, January 25, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


COIyE’S BOOR ARCADE
RAINBOW’S END, by Rex Beach, 3/6, "osted 3/9.
GREENMANTLE, by John Buchan, 3/6, posted 3/9.
THE CREVICE, by W. J. Burns and Isabel Ostrander, 4/-, posted 4/4.
THROUGH STAINED GLASS, by G. A. Chamberlain, 3/6, posted 3/9.
COO-00-EE. A -tale of Bushmen from Australia to Anzac, by
John Butler Cooper, 3/6, posted 3/9.
THE OUTLAW, by Jackson Gregory, 4/-, posted 4/4.
THE BORDER LEGION, by Zane Grey, 4/-, posted 4/4.
CLIPPED WINGS, by Rupert Hughes, 4/-, posted 4/4.
COMMON CLAY, by Cleves Kinkead, 3/6, posted 3/9.
VERMILION BOX, by E. V. Lucas, 3/6. posted 3/8.
THE RED HORIZON, by Patrick Mac Gill, 4/6, posted 4/9.
CHILDREN OF THE DESOLATE, by C. M. Matheson, 3/6, posted 3/9.
LEATHEBFACE, by Baroness Orezy, 3/6, posted 3/9.
THE MAN TRAIL, by Henry Oyen, 3/6, posted 3/9.
MEN, WOMEN ANB GUNS, by “Sapper,” 4/-, posted 4/4.
THE LEOPARD WOMAN, by Stewart Edward White, 3/6, posted 3/9.
WHEN A MAN’S A MAN, by Harold Bell Wright, 3/6, posted 3/9.
THE BYWONNER, by E. E. Mills Young, 4/-, posted 4/4.
E. W. COLE, 345 George Street, Sydney, 8 at Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Recent and
Popular Novels.
“BINDLE,”
By HERBERT JENKINS.
“ * Bindle ’ would twist
a smile out of the
wryest mouth.”
Price - 3/6
Posted - 3/9
dfg
mustdie:
I flow POISONOUS POWDER. <
THE6RBIT INSECT DESTROm
““
( flics.
) fleas.
J Bogs.
S«osqui!oOk
df
gfd
“MUSTDIE”
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecticide
or common insect powders, some of which are sold
under fancy names, for “MUSTDIE” contains
an ingredient particularly fatal to that common
house pest aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520
G.P.Q., Sydney, for a trial tin, forwarded post free;
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-size tip.
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
9d. per tin.
[6
The Red Page
Cocky Verses
“Billjim, and his mate from Maoriland
....” This extract comes from a “Plain
English” (13/1/T6). The name “Billjim,”
with its variant, “Jimbill,” is generally
taken to represent the typical Australian, or
in a more specialised sense, the typical
soldier Australian. But Billjim cannot
imply the Australasian; he does not include
the Maorilander —and this page has a sus-
picion that the Maorilander would not par-
ticularly care to be lumped even with Bill-
jini. Incidentally, the name “Billzac”
would include the inhabitants of the Narrow
Isles; but then there is again the possible
resentment of the Maorilander against thus
sinking his separate nationality. Well, it’s
up to the Maorilander to christen himself.
Hasn’t he got a name of his own? This
page throws out, as a bone for Billjim’s mate
to worry over, the name, “Beginaldsandy.”
Somehow, from this distance, he looks rather
like a “Beginaldsandy.” The subject is now
open for discussion and insults.
Vol. Ill, part 8, of J. H. Maiden’s Criti-
cal Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus (2s.
6d.), like the war, shows not the remotest
sign yet of coming to an end.
JIM AN' ME.
I! There was a durnce at Thompson’s place
The other night.
I was invited. So teas Grace.
(Oh! That’s all right.)
There was a darnce at Thompson's place,
An’ me an’ Jim, an’ Em an’ Grace
IVttS there. 1 thought it was a case:
An’ ivell I might.
I used, to think Jim was my friend,
An' so would you.
Wen hoik of us got on a bend
(As coves ’ll do) —
If each had got a pound to spend
An’ one run short, the ’tothcr’d lend,
An’ plank it for his pal, no end —
An’ quite right, too.
I darnced with Grace, an’ Em with Jim,
Most of the night.
I didn’t find no fault with him,
Though some coves might.
An’ w’en the moon was gettin' dim
We sat upon a leanin’ limb,
An’....I kissed Grace an’ Em kissed Jim,
Well, that's all right.
But me an’ Em’s engaged, yon know;
We was last year.
An’ Jim an’ me is pals — an’ so —-
Well, yes. It’s queer!
I ain’t a cove as likes to blow....
Em darnced with Jim. ’E ain’t too slow...
I iconder —? Blarm it! I don’t know!
('Eve's better beer!)
WEN THE WHEAT TURNS BROWN.
Sometimes I sits and wonders, like,
W’at time o’ year’s the best.
Autumn is good, some kind o’ ways:
Nothin’ to do but rest.
Falterin' comes — an’ seedin’, too,
Later on in the year.
Good limes, them is, with lots o’ work:
Stump-jumpin’ ploughs to steer.
Drivin’ a drill from morn to night —
Later on, rollin’ down.
But there’s a time as is .better still —
Better than drivin’ the plough or drill—
W’en you cun sit on the old sand-ill
Wat chin’ the w’eat turn brownl
Winter ain’t bad, to’en rains is on,
Bringin’ the crops along.
Talk about gramophones an’ thingsl
liain sings the farmer’s song!
Listenin’ to the rain all night!
Just think o’* that for fun!
Nothin’ to do but just lay loio,
’Avin’ your work all done!
Money a-growin’ w’ile you sleep:
Never no need to frown!
Still there’s a time as is “better beer”:
Just the best time in the bloomin’ year,
W’en you can sit do ion and ’are no fear,
turn_ hraijjnL __
Spring’s all right w’en the crop’s knee-high:
Most if it in th’ “boot,”
Wavin’ the “flag” in the moist west wind:
Stoolin’ well at the root.
Growin ’ an’ fillin’ out, day by day —
Promisin’ full “three bags”
(S’posin’ the “smut” and “rust” don’t come
Knockin’ it into rags!)
But summer’s the time you wouldn’t swap,
Not for a golden croicn!
That’s w’en you’re ’ummin' the ’arvest-
song,
’Appy as Larry the ’ole day long!
That’s w’en you know as you can’t go
wrong!
W r at chin’ the w’eat turn brown!
C. H. Souter, in “To Many Ladies (and
Others).”
0. H. Souter writes other than Cocky verses
in To Mann Ladies (and Others ) (Hassell,
Adelaide) ; he writes chanteys; he writes
about ’cellos and Chopin; he writes about
Billjim; bnt his most characteristic work is
done on the land. It is light stuff, done with
a delicate and fragile grace and with a
pretty wit. He is most at home in his
kisses, and his emotion seldom goes deeper
than a kiss. Many ladies (and others) will
be delighted with it.
Australian
The eighth volume of Fredk. Watson's
Historical Records of Australia, dealing
with the period July, 181d —Dec., 1815, in-
troduces us to Governor Lachlan Macquarie.
He was a military officer with an excellent
record, which included administrative work.
He was employed as a lieutenant in New
York and' Charleston on garrison duty until
the close of the war with the American
colonies. Placed upon the half-pay list, he
returned to Scotland, where later he was
offered the appointment of eldest lieutenant
in a regiment for service- in India. The
usual condition was attached to this prefer-
ment : he had to raise a quota of 15 recruits
for the regiment. Macquarie failed utterly
to get his recruits from the Highlands, and
had to travel to Glasgow and Edinburgh
before he got his 15 heroes. The servant
he enlisted for himself had all the necessary
military qualifications: he “dressed hair re-
markably well, waited table, and played very
well upon the fiddle.” Fredk. Watson
acknowledges that many of these curious
facts are derived from journals preserved in
the Mitchell Library. During his military
career Macquarie saw much service in India
and made himself a person of importance in
London Court circles. His appointment
as Governor of N.S.W. was due to the unex-
pected death of Brigadier-General Nightin-
gall, to whom Macquarie was second in com-
mand, as military officer in charge of the
73rd Regiment, sent out to relieve the notori-
ous N.S.W. Corps. Macquarie’s adminis-
tration was vigorous, but marred by an ill-
regulated judgment. “He created the first
Australian ‘boom’ by the lavish expenditure
of public money, which was followed by the
inevitable reaction after his departure.”
His energy showed itself in the many excel-
lent roads lie laid out, making the western
districts accessible by the famous x*oad over
the Mountains, though he withheld due
acknowledgment to Blaxland, Lawson and
Wentworth for their discoveries. He also
laid out towns on a lavish scale: he had an
itch for building and apparently rivalled
Kink O’Malley in his partiality for conspicu-
ously inscribing his name upon the works
constructed to his orders. “It is certain
that . Macquarie wasted a large amount of
convict labor, on these buildings, instead of
employing it in the formation of agricultural
settlements, which would have conferred a
permanent and lasting benefit.” Though
Macquarie, justly recognised the claims of
the emancipists and expirees to positions of
authority in the settlement, he acted so
arbitrarily that society refused to accept
some of his ex-convict proteges. He was an
honest, punctilious, intolerant, ostentatious,
pompous, intelligent sort of bloke.
The most important part of George A.
Taylor’s big-travel volume, There! A Pil-
grimage of Pleasure (Building, Ltd., Syd-
ney), is the title-page addendum, “with 306
pictures.” The letterpress is chockfull of
facts and platitudes; and all through one
feels that George A. Taylor is being
smart. But he is genuinely interested in
architecture and all civic ideals; and in the
United States he found much that interests
the average reader. And the photographs of
American buildings and the civic and archi-
tectural details that he gathered clearly
show how horribly backward Australia is in
the ferroconcrete of civilisation.
There has been some talk about what
Billzac reads. But Pastor Bampton, Stan-
ley, Tas., patriotically prints what Billzac
ought to read. Soldiers’ Battle Hymn and
Words of Comfort for the Amadous, Weak
and Dying (6d., or £5 per 1000) will cer-
tainly appeal to the emotions and the lan-
guage of every anxious, weak or dying Bill-
zac. There is an assortment of “helpful
texts and verses for the weak” —and the
Hun knows how weak Wm.-Jas. usually is.
There are also “helpful thoughts for the
anxious,” and “helpful verses for the dying.”
But these have not the personal element so
beautifully expressed in Bampton’s “Message
from the Soldiers in Camp on the Way to
those at the Front.” It begins thus and
goes on thus: —
Hold on, lads, for we are coming,
Coming, slow but sure,
Keep the good old banner waving,
We our help assure.
Hold the fort a little longer,
Till we all get there;
Then we’ll join you in the conflict,
And your burdens share.
Evidently Bampton is on the way. But,
no, there follows a “Letter of Appreciation
to the Brave Men of the Battlefield,” in
which Bampton says: “I can assure you
that your movements are watched with eager
expectation, and you are followed into
battle (in thought) by many an anxious
heart, with many a sigh and with many a
tearful prayer for your protection and safety.
Meanwhile we leave you in the Master’s
care, and exhort you to go forward with
full confidence in God.” Yea, Bampton is
still pastoring in Tassy; he has enlisted only
in thought; and he prays and exhorts Bill-
zac from some thousands of miles beyond
shell-fire. Upon the cover Bampton asks.
“Have you sent one to your soldier friend
jet?" Well, lmve you? And has your
soldier friend told you what he thinks of it?
Jt
At last Australia possesses a complete,
and in its broad respects, a iinal piscatorial
Who's Who. Fishes of Australia and Their
Technology, bj - T. C. Ilougliley, Economic
Zoologist for the N.S.W. Government, is not
only a notable contribution to our know-
ledge of the wealth of food in Australian
waters, but a valuable advertisement for the
N.SA\ . Government Printer. It will come
as a surprise to the casual Australian that so
manj r full page plates are necessary to illus-
trate the species of Australian edible fish.
These plates are admirably rendered in color,
and the volume has been produced with a taste
that this page was beginning to despair of in
N.S.W. technical publications. There was
the added difficulty in the work of the artist
that fishes so soon fade. Sometimes colored
sketches had to be made of the live fish imme-
diately after capture, while in other cases
the fish were frozen in ice in order to pre-
serve their complexion for the artist. The
lavish use of these color-plates gives the
book a practical value to amateur and pro-
fessional fishermen, while for the scientific
reader full technical details and much in-
formation about methods of capture, food-
value, supply and habits is available. The
author frankly states that the purpose of his
work is to aid in the development of the Aus-
tralian fish industry, particulars of which
form the subject of supplementary chapters.
He even depicts, in color illustrations, the
slight but artistic use that has hitherto been
made of the Australian fish in decorative
art.
B. C. Buley, whose Glorious Deeds of
Australasians was apt and admirable, now
furnishes A Child’s History of Ansae
(Hqdder and Stoughton), simply and
lucidly written. This work should find a
patriotic welcome as a supplementary read-
ing book for our schools.
Henry Fletcher suggests a scheme for the
Australian play: Australia having learned
to make its own bricks, boots 'and blacking,
is due to write, say, one-third of its plays
and have an oversea demand for the suc-
cesses. These appear the conditions of such
successes: Local color, dramatic construc-
tion, characterisation and a motive pleasing
to the average woman—for she is the chief
patron of the modern play, and decides its
fate. The opening is not for the physiolo-
gical, society or philosophic play; but for
the plain domestic drama. Required a group
of writers mutually assisting each other in
constructing such plays, aided by the criti-
cism of expert producers; and a volunteer
staff of actors and actresses to'be paid such
salaries as returns allow; to give single
matinge performances of these plays to the
public, managers, or those who might pro-
duce. This in a borrowed theatre with
loaned props. If we can get qualified winters,
critics and actors on the lines suggested,
there is hope for a series of plays, none very
bad and some a great success. But we must
first learn our business, as the essentially
Australian play has yet to be written. We
have to adapt the old mechanism and motives
to local, conditions. There must be a story
to tell in four acts, with as few scenes as
possible, and. covering, say, 120 typed letter
pages. —that is, a play to fill out the evening.
The ingredients of emotion to be measured
out as you make a Christmas pudding. Cur-
tains, situations and all the old bag of tricks,
and this, if possible, without staginess or
melodrama.
Mrs. G. It. Coxhead experiences “much
trepidation” iiv- placing her Lost, a Conti-
nent, Heroes of Anzac and O.V. (Modern
Printing Go., Elizabeth-street, Melb.),
before her reader. She admits that she has
not made any endeavor to soar to heights
above her powers; and she is entitled to that
somewhat rare merit in verse-writers. The
author writes a pleasant prose in metrical
form. And she has poems for every occa-
sion, shipwrecks preferred. She is more at
home, however, in her poems of royalty.
Here is “Victoria the Good”:—
The never-fading crown of life will be upon thy brow,
Before the King of Kings thou wilt in adoration bow;
The changing vanities of time are well exchanged
by .thee,
For union with the loved ones thou’st mourned so
faithfully.
There is, of course, “Royal Landing Day,”
with its loyal wish :—•
God bless our future King and Queen 1
On every lip we hear ;...,
And the inevitable In Memoriam on “our
King IferS many
appropriate “lines”: Lines on Hearing of
the Queen’s Illness, Lines on the American
Fleet,. Lines on the Coronation of King
George, Lines to an Aged Christian, Lines to
a Sick Friend, Lines Written in Answer to
an Eulogistic Poem by “Euroclydon”....
And there is even a poem “On the Opening
of the First Federal Parliament of Aus-
tralia,” in which the poet makes this hope-
less request to God
Oh, with true wisdom, now, our statesmen bless—
Such wisdom as canst Thou alone supply
To guide through sunshine or adversity.
Butters, beware!
TO OUR DEAD.
Duntroon, once bare of hero-deeds as dawn
Of stars, now sadly radiant, bows her
head,
Drooping a silent sword, with pride new-
born,
In homage to the dead.
Where dream mists glide on gaunt Galli-
poli,
And reverent memories their vigil keep
by shattered fanes of France, beyond the
sea,
They lie in splendid sleep.
Stalwart, with lunching eyes and parting
cheer,
Their hearts afire with martial pride, they
passed
Jo speed where Honor's call rang true and
clear
Its challenge to stand fast.
Bravely they fell—with just a rebel flush
Of tears for sea-barred home and love and
life.
A silent bracing to that solemn hush —
Serene repose from strife.
Loyal in death, they call us each by name
Vo do the simple thing that men should
do —
Shelter the home and shield the ting from
shame,
Or die for freedom, too.
One day a Napier shall, with pen aflame,
In eager, glowing phrase, not bare of pride,
Set down the glory of Australia’s fame
In her full warrior stride.
Radiant within that throbbing human chart,
Oar sons shall rc'ad the record of the price
We paid-—names Iona enrolled on every
h cart,
Dear stars of sacrifice.
Dear patriot names, imperishably twined
About sonic deed of daring gladly dared
lor home and homeland- -we had not divined
How much they loved and cared.
Duntroon, once bare of memories as dawn
Of stars, now richly dowered, hears the
tread
Of vanished footsteps, and with sword up-
borne,
Proudly salutes the dead.
—iu The Journal of the Royal
Military College of
AUSTRALIA.
Another Australian Novelist
A. lan Macleod must be congratulated
upon her ability to write the conventional
novel in a genuine Australian setting.
Hacks Brat (Hodder and Stoughton, per
Dymock’s Library), -apparently a first novel,
fey;• symptoms of crudity, though,
ttuTyusjy enough, it lacks a frequent char-
acteristic of a first effort—strength. Macleod
takes a conventional theme and develops it
with great naturalness. A mining assayer,
sent to a gold rush, becomes the unwilling
foster parent of a dirty little untamed bush
child, _ whose language is lurid and whose
behavior is rampageous. The Scotehaustra-
lian assayer is a reserved bloke; he tries
to tame his ward without attempting to
evoke her love. But he discovers that this
girl—-of course, she is a girl—-possesses the
makings of a Melba voice, and determines to
get her voice, and incidentally her, edu-
cated. A Sydney boarding-school mistress
manages where he had' failed. Naturally
he has no interest in the girl: all she is to
him is a Voice. So when she is ill all he
is concerned about is the possibility of her
losing her top-note. The hardened fiction
reader guesses that she will grow up into
a charming woman, and that, after the usual
false alarms, the man will discover that the
woman is more than the Voice. But the
situation between the two is ably worked
out; though the author suffers from the
commonest delusion in fiction, the blindness
that seems to strike a hero and a heroine
when they _ fall in love with each
other —and it is necessary to bump the
book out another five chapters. Bach
believes that the other does not reciprocate.
A. lan Macleod wastes many pages in her
attempt to keep up this impossible situation;
though when the man makes his disclosure
the girl instantly becomes natural. “Did
you say—oh, will you say—some of that
again?” she whispers unsteadily, and then,
after she has bui'rowed her face into his
shoulder, “John, aren’t you ever going to
ask me to —to marry you?”
The life in tire mining camp is admirably
drawn ; the pub-keeper’s daughter has more
red blood in her than is usually permitted
in fiction; she is more real in her love-
affairs than the heroine, whose transforma-
tion from the Brat to the Lady is not suffi-
ciently explained. The author has also
unnecessarily thought it necessary to ex-
plain the mystery of the Brat’s parentage,
and has complicated a simple story by much
extraneous plot. But her reserved hero and
the mining men with whom he has so much
to do are genuine individuals; arid the novel
has a wholesome Australian flavor. A. lan
Macleod ought to keep on.
“Dominie Sampson” belatedly suggests a
neat recasting of one of our toasts: “Aus-
tralia ! May her midwives never be idle!”
He proffers, “Australia! May she be kept
off the rock of disaster by the rock of the
cradle t 5 * *


vae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Half-Yearly SALE
Finishes Wednesday, February 14» 1917.
—-Genuine Reductions in Every Department
Men’s Sac Suits.
Our Own Make. Tweeds Thoroughly
Shrunk. Trimmed in First-class
Style.
Coat. —Single breasted, round or square cut, padded
shoulders, button cuffs, stitched edges, lined
throughout or halt-lined, to button 2 or 3
buttons, whole back or with seam and vent.
Vest. —Single-breasted, four pockets.
Trousers. —Side or cross pockets.
TWEED SAC SUITS.
Reduced
113 Manchester Tweed, sizes 3to 7. Usual to
price, 25/- 22/0
i 7 Fancy Tweed, sizes 3 to 6. Usual
price, 45/- 42/-
!)8 Fancy Tweed, sizes 3 to 7. Usual
price, 45/ 42/-
35 Fancy Tweed, sizes 3 to 7. Usual
price, 45/- 42/-
80 Fancy Tweed, sizes 4-1 to 9|. Usual
price, 47/6 44/-
156 Fancy Worsted, sizes 3 to 7. Usual
price, 50/- 45/-
163 West of England Worsted, sizes 3 to
7. Usual price, 52/6 •. 46/-
74 Fancy Brown Worsted, sizes 4 to 6,
7j to 91. Usual price, 55/- 48 /6
100 Grey Tweed, sizes 4 to 7. Usual price,
60/- 54/.
63 Grey striped Tweed, sizes 3to 7. Usual
price, 63/- 57/6
12 Blarney Tweed, sizes 4|, 5.}. Usual
price, 67/6 62/-
61 Self Tweeds and Worsteds, sizes 4 to 7.
Usual price, 70/- 62/6
MEN’S TROUSERS AND VESTS.
Our own make. Trousers.—Side or cross pockets,
plain or raised seams. Vests.—Single-breasted,
4 pockets, medium opening.
199 Striped Cotton Tweed, sizes 4 to 7.
Usual price, 11/6 10/-
15 Fancy Tweed, size 4. Usual price, - 17/6 15/6
11 Fancy Tweed, size 4. Usual price, 20/- 17/6
98 Striped Worsted, sizes 4 to 7. Usual
price, 20/- 18/-
92 Striped Worsted, sizes 41 to 91. Usual
price, 20/-, 21/-, 18/-, 19/-
53 Blue Serge and Tweed, sizes 4 to 7.
Usual price, 22/6 20/-
130 Fancy Tweed, sizes 4 to 7. Usual
price, 22/6 20/-
69 Black Diagonal and Worsted, sizes 4 to
7. Usual price, 24/- 21/-
147 Fancy' Tweed, sizes 4} to 9J. Usual
price, 25/-, 26/- 21/-, 22/-
73 Light Sky and Fancy Tweeds, sizes 4
to 7. Usual price, 26/6 23/6
136 Fancy Worsted, sizes 4 to 7. Usual
price, 27/6 24/-
19 Fox’s M. Serge, sizes 4 to 7. Usual
price, 30/- 27/6
MEN’S SERGE SAC SUITS.
Stylishly Cut. Materials Thoroughly Shrunk.
69 Maritime Serge, sizes 4 to 7. Usual
price, 45/- \ 41/6
37 Navy Serge, sizes 4] to 9;}. Usual
price, 55/- 50/-
47 Navy Serge, sizes 4 to 7, 54 to 64.
Usual price, 60/- .”. 55/.
124 Navy Serge, sizes 3 to 7, 4] to 9],
Usual price, 60/- 55/-
49 Navy Serge, sizes 4 to 7, 71 to 94.
Usual price, 63/- 57/6
58 Navy Serge, sizes 5 to 7, 71 to 91.
Usual price, 65/- 60/-
77 Navy Serge, sizes 3 to 7, 41 to 91.
Usual price, 70/- 64/-
165 Navy Serge, sizes 3 to 7, 81 to 91.
Usual price, 75/- 68 /6
85 Navy Serge, sizes, 41 to 91. Usual
price, 84/- 77 /6
MEN’S TENNIS COATS.
Striped Designs. Club Colors.
210 Flannel Tennis Sacs, sizes 3 to 7, 51
to 91. Usual price, 14/6, 16/6 11/6
MEN’S TWEED TROUSERS.
Our own make. First-class Trimmings. With lrip
and side or cross Pockets. Plain or Raised
Seams.
545 Striped Cotton Tweed, sizes 4 to 7.
Usual price, 5/- '. 4/6
487 Manchester Tweed, sizes. 41 to 91.
Usual price, 5/6 4/9
259 Fancy Stripe Worsted, sizes 4 to 7, 51
to 91. Usual price, 10/6 9/6
1709 Urey and Brown Tweed, sizes 3 to 7,
41 to 91. Usual price, 12/6 11/6
364 Striped Worsted, sizes 3 to 7. Usual
price, 12/6 11/6
207 Striped Fancy Worsted, sizes 4 to 7,
51 to 91. Usual price, 13/6 12/-
333 Dark West of England, sizes 3 to 7,
41 to 91. Usual price, 14/6 13/6
847 Striped Worsted, sizes 3 to 7, 41 to
91. Usual price, 18/6 16/6
68 Fancy Scotch Tweeds, sizes 4 to 6, 51 to
71. Usual price, 18/6 16/6
136 Fancy Striped Worsted, sizes 41 to 91.
Usual price, 20/- 18/-
MEN’S SICILIAN COATS.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
112 Light and Dark Grey Checks, sizes 3
to 7. Usual price, 13/6 12/-
132 Liirht and Dark Grey Checks, sizes 3
to 7. Usual price, 15/- 13/6
231 Light and Dark Grey Checks, sizes 5 to
7, 54, 64 ; 4}, to 71. Usual price, 16/6 15/-
39 Fawn and Brown Camel Hair, sizes 4
to 7. Usual price 16/6 15/-
Bennett Portable Typewriter
During: the Sale, ,£2lO/-, Post Free. ~
The BENNETT is a practical Standard Keyboard Typewriter, offered at a price within the reach
of all. It is Compact, Portable and Strong’, built for hard usage, to last a lifetime.
The BENNETT does nearly everything most expensive machines do, and does it easily and
neatly. Kase of operation is one of its greatest recommendations.
The BENNETT Typewriter will do beautiful, clean-looking work, which cannot be distinguished
from that of the large machines. It will write plainly and legibly the work of authors, the
sermons of preachers, the briefs of lawyers, and the regular correspondence of a business man.
The BENNETT Tv pewriter may be operated by all the fingers of both hands, and takes all si/.es
of paper up to 84 inches wide.
No Course of Instruction, no long hours of practice are necessary to master the simple features
of the BENNETT. The novice quickly learns the universal keyboard.'
The BENNETT Typew liter, packed in a neat Leatherette Case, is 10 inches long, 5 inches wide,
and 2 inches high, and weighs 5 pounds.
Lverv part of the BENNETT Typewriter is made of the best hardened steel, and the most skilled
labor furnishes the workmanship. The Type face is identical with the larger machines. The
adjustment is accurate, and the type alignment is safeguarded by a special device.
A Manifesto to Our Friends.
-♦
TOP QUALITY AT BOTTOM PRICE is our constant aim and
endeavor, hut under no circumstances do we sacrifice the former
for the latter, as we guarantee to supply the best that money can
buy. Our usual Catalogue is imprinted “Subject to market fluctua-
tions',” but this does not apply to the Sale List, for Ave undertake that
the goods are available at the prices quoted subject to their being in
stock at the time of the receipt of orders, and notwithstanding any
increase in the Federal Tariff during the currency of our Sale.
Our financial facilities enable us to adopt a system of paying Spot
Cash for everything we buy, and the advantage of the loAver rates that
result therefrom are passed on to all who honor us Avith their custom.
Still, it is undeniable that all manufactured goods must be bought on a
rising market, and Ave have every reason to believe the prices quoted to-
day will be materially advanced in a year’s time. By the last mail Ave
received the following advice: —
“ Everything has to be placed on one side but War
work; most of the manufacturers will have to
cease export trade entirely, as all men not doing
munition work are called up for service. ”
Therefore, Ave advise our customers Avithout hesitation to buy while
the Sale lasts, as, although it is contrary to our permanent principle of
trading to raise prices until we are compelled, it is only a matter of time
until the increased cost of freight, Avar risk insurance and dearer Home
markets, must, to a much greater extent, make themselves felt in Aus-
tralia.
PACKARD ORGANS.
Style 281 Church model, low top, Solid Walnut
case, five- octaves, having 2 sets of reeds of 2
octaves each and 2 sets of 3 octaves each, 11
stops—-
Usual price, £lB/15/-; Reduced to £l7/15/-
Style 341 Heavy cabinet top, with bevel I d
mirror, Walnut case, five octaves having 2 sets
of reeds of 2 octaves each, and 2 sets of 3
octaves each, 11 stops—
Usual price, £l9/15/-; Reduced to £lB/15/'-
Style 283 Church model, low top, walnut case,
five octaves having- 2 sets of reeds of 2 octaves
each, 2 sets of 3 octaves each, and 1 octave
sub-bass, 12 stops—-
Usual price, £2l; Reduced to £2O
A Large Variety of Pictures in the Furniture
Department Reduced in Price.
THE MARATHON BICYCLE
Built of English Fittings, at our Redfern Factory.
Frame, Reynolds’ Tubings; Front Forks, box crown, D forks, crown plated; Wheels, 28in. x lgin.,
Westwood steel rims, plated spokes; Tyres, Oceanic Covers and tubes; guaranteed 6 months;
Handle Bars, reversible or half-drop bar, with grips; Brake, front rim; Chain Jin. x in’,
roller ; Chain Wheel, iin. x Jin. ; Tin. crank; Saddle, English ; Pedals, 3-Jin., rat-trap" or rubber •
Finish, Black, stove enamel, of good quality.
Complete with Tool Bag, Set of Tools, Oil Can, Inflator, and Clips—
Usual price, £6/15/-; Reduced to £6/5/-
If fitted with Eadie Coaster Hub. Usual price, £7/5/- Reduced to £6/15/-
Or fitted with Eadie Two-speed Coaster Hub 20/- extra
Lady's Marathon Bicycle 20 /- extra
With Dunlop Tyres, 20/- extra.
Ladies’ Kid Gloves.
.1 , , ~ „, . lleduced
4 doz. 4 ; button White Kid, 7.1, 74, 7ij. to
Usual price, 1/11 pair * I/O
6 doz. 1-dome White Kid, Black Points, 6,
c 3. 7,7 J, 74. Usual price, 3/(i 2/ft
20 doz. 3-button White Kid, 54 to 7-1.
Usual price, 3/11 o/«
30 doz. 3-dome White Kiel, 5} to 7 Usual
mice 4/11 4 /(i
20 doz. 3-Button Beaver Kid, 54 to 7.
Usual price, 4/0 3/6
10 doz. 3-button Pastel Kid,' 5.4 to” 7*.
Usual price, 4/6 7 3/6
15 doz. 4-button Tan Kid, 54 to 8. Usual
price, 4/11 7 «/«
20 doz. 4-button Brown Kid, 61 to 74
Usual price, 4/11 7.
10 doz. 4-button Pastel Kid, 5} to" 74.
Usual price, 5/6 q/»
10 doz. 4-button Beaver Kid, 5J to 71.
Usual price, 5/6 «
10 doz. 2-dome Brown Kid, 7], 74, 74.
Usual price, 3/11 /«
10 doz. 3-button White. Kid, 5$ to 7.
Usual price, 4/6.- . 3/6
10 doz. 3-button Black Kid, 54 'to ’ 64.
Usual price, 4/11 3/11
3 doz. Strap at wrist, Black Pique, 54,
51, 6. Usual price, 6/11 5/11
4 Strap at wrist, Slate Doeskin, 6J
to <4. Usual pricij, 6/11 5/11
Gifts in Guns.
GUNS, RIFLES AND REVOLVERS.
8 ,1. Hollis & Son's D.8.8.L. 410 G. Guns, KL ]. I ” LLd
top lever, 28in. barrels, well finished.
Usual price, £6/10/- each £5/17/.
7 1. Hollis & Son's 5.8.8. L. 12G. Guns
top lever, 30in. twist barrels, choke
bore, rebounding locks, walnut stock.
Usual price, 90/-
2 Ditto, ditto, ditto, ditto, 16G. Usual
price, 84/-
price, 84/-
82/0
77/6
77/6
77/6
price, 84/-
30 J. O. Mayne’s D.8.8.L. 12G. Guns, trebie
bolted action on cross-bolt principle,
30in. twist bairels, left choke, bar re-
bounding locks, snap fore end, engine-
turned rib. Usual juice, £5 92/6
7 J. O. Mayne’s D.8.8.L. 12G. Guns, 30in.
twist barrels, rebounding locks, well
finished. Usual price, 84/- 77 /«
6 .1. O. Mayne’s D.8.8.L. 12G. Guns, 30in.
twist barrels, top lever, walnut stock.
Usual price, 72/0 1 47 //*
5 .T. O. Mayne’s 5.8.8. L. 12G. Guns, 30in.
twist barrel, top lever, neatly finished.
Usual price, 63/- 57 //»
3 Seholefield’s D.8.8.L. 12G. Guns, top lever,
30in. steel barrels, Greener cross-bolt,
engine-turned rib, proved for nitro pow-
ders. Usual price 90/- 82/6
16 Scholefield’s D.8.8.L. 12G. Guns, 30in.
twist barrels, left choke, rebounding
locks, walnut stock. Usual price, 70/-.. 63/-
20 S'eholefield’s 5.8.8. L. 12G. Guns, 30in.
twist barrels, choke bore, walnut stock,
well finished. Usual price, 62/6 57/6
4 I. Hollis & Son’s 8.8.M.L. 12G. Guns,
twist barrels, chequered fore end, ebony
ramrod, walnut stock. LTsual price, 54/- 50/-
4 J. O. Mayne’s S.B.M.L. 12G. Guns, back
action locks, well finished. Usual
price, 22/6 20/-
Wicker Furniture.
Fancy Wicker Chairs, no arms—
Usual price 8/9 11/6 ' 17/6 each
Reduced to 8/3 10/6 16/-
i ancy Wicker Chairs, with arms—
Usual price 11/6 15/- 16/6 each
Reduced to 10/6 14/- 15/3 „
lancy \\ leker Chairs, with arms and hollow seats—
Usual price 12/9 17/6 21/- each
Reduced to 11/6 16/- 19/6 „
Fancy Sea Grass Chairs, Malacca Cane Frames—
Usual price . . 22/6 25/- 27/6 28/6 each
Reduced to .. 20/6 22/6 25/6 26/6
Malacca. Cane Chairs —
Usual price * 16/6 18/6 each
Reduced to 15/3 16/6 „
Malacca Cane Lounges—•
Usual price 30/- 32/6 each
Reduced to 28/- 30/6 „
Sea Grass Lounges—
Usual price .. 32/6 37/6 52/6 57/6 each
Reduced to . . 30/6 35/- 40/6 54/6
Sea Grass Folding Lounges—
Usual price .. 33/6 37/6 47/6 57/6 each
Reduced to .. 31/- 35/- 44/6 54/6 >.
Sea Grass Rocking Chairs —
Usual price 19/6 26/6 28/6 each
Reduced to 18/- 24/3 26/6 v
3-Piece Sea Grass Suites, Settee and 2 Chairs —
Usual price £5 £6/7/6 each
Reduced to 90/- £5/17/6 ..
Children’s Fancy Cane and Sea Grass Chairs —
Usual, price . 5/- 7/- 9/- 11/6 each
Reduced t<* .. 4/6 6/6 8/6 10/6
Children's Fancy Sea Grass Rockers —
Usual price 11/6 12/6 each
Reduced to 10/6 11/6 „
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


mNcmstm
.11l
aiiiillliillllll
Li
•32, .35, .351 and.4ol Caliber
Sflf-Roading Rifles
When you look over your sights and see an
animal like this silhouetted against the back-
ground, you like to feel certain that your
equipment is equal to the occasion. It is, if
you are armed with a Winchester Self-
Loader. Not only does this rifle shoot
surely, strongly and accurately, but it gives
you a chance to get in a number of shots
in quick succession. It is the rifle of rifles
FOR ALL KINDS OF HUNTING
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCIvE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
up., arm: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT'SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO..
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. EMO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
g
If any Illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Brush Your Teeth
After Lunch
Brushing your teeth after lunch is
as important a part of your daily
life as bathing. Equally impor-
tant is the form of a cleanser
used.
Do not allow particles of food
to lodge between your teeth and
remain there until dinner time.
For your teeth’s sake brush them
after luncheon with either
j „»t*rtcr, J
oiNT^
For ('l«‘nnsiw}
l Beautifying
toe teeth
Is AND PURIfYING/T'
v\ THE PRCAtn ,%
Kma tit «vry
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
Some people prefer dental cream, but in gratifying this
preference, the value of using a Tooth powder frequently
should not be overlooked. Dr. Lyon’s toothpowder is a
super-cleanser whose use is essential through frequent
applications to keep the teeth in perfect condition.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
m
.I.M*. I,TO
t- t>r.nrtcr ;
POU
»«-. ’ ssgF ~
UNO T»t' !
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
dfg
fd
Works: Birming-ham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TRADE MARK Christmas 8 New Year Gifts!
FURTHER
REDUCTIONS.
g
6 ONLY D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, choke bore, walnut stock, pistol grip,
fitted with W. W. Greener patent wedge-fast crossbolt.
Usual Price, £5/15/-. SALE PRICE, £3/15/-
4 ONLY CHAMPION lIAMMERLESS D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, walnut stock,
pistol grip, steel barrel. Usual Price, £lO. SALE PRICE, £6/6/-
6 ONLY 5.8.8. L. DUCK GUNS, long distance, top action, kill at over 100
yards. Usual Price, £5. SALE PRICE, £3/10/-
FARMERS’ D.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 50/-. SALE PRICE, 27/6.
FARMERS’ S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 207-
Colt’s Lightning REPEATING RIFLES, to hold 12 shots.
Usual Price, £6/6/-. SALE PRICE, £3/5/-
S.B. RABBIT RIFLES, kill at 100 yards. Usual Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12/6.
Repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on Application to
S MALL ARMY CO.. 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
“I certainly believe it was
Clements Tonic cheated death
from claiming me as a victim.”
“ I was pronounced incurable, and sent
home by those best able to judge.”
The following letter is remarkable for its earnestness in praise of this
wonderful Medicine, which does so much good to those who are run down
with debility of the system, and whose health appears seriously impaired.
Mrs. Craft’s case is well known in the Parramatta district (N.S.W.),
where •she has lived for years, and the story of her long' suffering is well
known and can easily be verilied. flow she suffered year after year, and
how she recovered through the use of Clements Tonic, is the" talk of
Granville. Read the letter that follows, and if you are ill with debility, or
suffering with weak nerves and general weakness, try the magic of this
medicine, and give yourself a chance to recover good health. As it benefited
others, so it may benefit you.
Palmer House, Cooper Street,
Granville, N.S.W.,
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. 15/4/-16.
“I would be lacking in generosity to you and the afflicted if I
did not ask you to make known what Clements Tonic has done for
me. It may be the means of directing others to health.
“It is ten years since I first got ill, and I had a five years’ illness,
the greater part of which time I was not even able to walk about.
I was in four different hospitals, and was operated upon in one. I
know the dread of the knife played havoc on my nervous constitution,
so that I was not only weak in body hut weak in nerves.
“I was pronounced an incurable, and sent home by those who
were best able to judge. Friends sat by my bedside at night-time
expecting to see the last of me, but I certainly believe that it was
Clements Tonic cheated death from claiming me as its victim. I
have lived in the Parramatta district all my life, and it would be
very easy to verify my statement. You may uso this as you think fit,
Witness: HENRY GOUGH, J.P. “(Signed) ALICE CRAFT.”
Date: April 19, 1916.
If you have Insomnia take Clements Tonic and sleep like a child.
If you have Constipation this medicine gives new stomach strength.
If you have Sick Headaches or Neuralgia it gives immediate relief.
Your home is not medically equipped without it. Get it to-day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —a4l chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
8100d —like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief—every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney end Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
f Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Free
Trial. Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears,
[B.S.A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
l Saddles, etc.
dfg
LATEST
MODELS
£ 3.10 to £9
| Tyres and accessories at half usual pricec.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, fot
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer op sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
STOP
SMOKINC!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse,. Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Diver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
iiabit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post vou a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Franl; Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “1 teas a heavy smoker for 60 years,
but• after taking your treatment for days l
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2.
DEAF
<!!EAV
DEAFNESS OVERCOME
by wearing WILSON’S COMMON-
I SENSE EAR-DRUMS.
Assist the Deaf when all
other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no
relief. They are soft, com-
fortable and durable.
STAR NOVELTY CO., Box 466,
498 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
1]
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—"WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
awn
oAIJi)
A COOLING LOTION
FOB SUNBURN. BATHERS
——_ MOTORISTS
AH Chemists 1/6 Bottle
OR PbST FREE
df
BONNINGTON & GO., LTD.
179 HARRIS ST.. SYDNEY _
Mosquitobane
est W «
A friend v in need for
Camping. Fishing, the
Bosh, Etc. Will keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
ALL CHEMISTS
1/6 Bottle
k or Post Free
gdf
P» HARRIS ST
CVONEV
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
I
Nothing contributes more
to secure happy temper in
a child than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby is as happy as
the day is long.
Mellin's Food is adapted for use with the
youngest babe, is light, easily digested, safe.
Besides, “Mellin’s” is a no-worry food hot
water and fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
As important as
baby’? Food is
baby ? Feeder.
Mellu* s Feeding
Jiot'l' lands
unique- hygienic,
efficient, easily
cleaned.
Mellin's
Food
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook for Mothers,
“The Care of Infants in Australia,” sent Free. Write to-day:
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, 1.D., SYDNEY.
g
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
V
m
m
w
/f
ft
,\'ni
52
k\
\
L
f
i&
U|, \'
s^l'h
ISS
to/
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible —
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your . system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
dfg
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottlfe
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Scrollers.
I strayed into a place of trees
Where birds made morning melodies,
And youths and maidens in a ring
Linked arms and played at wmodland games,
While round about grey sires and dames
Clapped hands to speed their revelling.
But there was one within whose heart
There stirred no sylvan gaiety;
With thinking brows he stood apart,
And carved his name upon a tree.
“O Fool,” I said, “perchance to-night
That tree shall fall whereon you write,
And all the labors of your day
Pass into dust upon the winds!
Laugh, then, with yonder merry hinds,
And fling the fiction Fame away !”
Another time upon a beach,
Made white by salty seas that bleach,
And smooth by breezes soft nnd fair,
I saw folk splashing to and fro,
Their eyes alight, their cheeks aglow,
And joy resplendent everywhere.
But one with unresponsive heart
Stood heedless to the hour’s demands;
With thinking brows he moved apart,
And wrote his name upon the sands.
“O Fool,” I said, “within an hour
The waves above your name shall tower
And break, like sportive days at play!
Go, join the golden-hearted throng—
Nor love, nor life, last overlong—
And fling the fiction Fame away!”
Anon 1 walked a stately place
Where Beauty, arm in arm with Grace,
Passed by in love and amity;
And there I saw fair damsels trip,
And there I saw good fellowship,
And life contented just to be.
But theje was one within whose heart
There burnt no kindly human flame;
With thinking brows he stood apart
And on cold granite carved his name.
“O Fool,” 1 said, “dire earthquake shocks
That break the strength of fire-born rocks
In blown grey dust your work shall lay !
Scroll, stone and all alike must go.
Conte, then, and join the passing show,
And throw the fiction Fame away
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Little Girls’ Hands.
When little girls hold out their flower-like
hands
I gather them and press them, innocent
Of all unmanly thought, knowing them sent
As sruides to lead myself to lofty lands.
Then do I feel an aching sadness, blent
With sturdy joy; and hug such brave intent
As he who is mere dreamer countermands,
And quakes when his Ideal mocking stands!
For these white, fragile hands are more
than dreams,
Which hem the magic realm of Poesy,
Dim ’mid its purple woods and buddin
themes.
And so I count these hands a queenly loan
To hold until rich Love will bring to me
Hands I can kiss and call my very own !
MAOISILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Apollo in Sydney Gardens.
Sweet god of oracles ! Spring-hour of life!
Above the shriek of our impassioned strife
Still rings your voice, like running rills of
wine,
And poets meet and mingle at your shrine,
As when the pious priestess from your
breath
Epon the waiting throngs spoke peace or
death
From that deep-fissured rock whose vapors
flung
The wisdom of your being to her tongue.
All thoughts divine are yours. 0 rhythmic
host!
Lord of the flaming noon, whose features
boast
The princely symmetry of untold grace;
Leto in silence marvelled at your face
As drave by torments out of Arcady
Zeus chained the floating Delos to the sea.
And 'neath the shade of laurel leaf and palm
And moon and sun slept in her circling arm.
The serpent of the dark faints in your sight.
Stung by the arrows of immortal light.
Mind ne’er conceived a thing more fair to
see;
Your very faults become a victory ;
For in the morn of your tremendous love,
W hen Daphne fled, its falcon like a dove,
Her shroud of laurel tripped its flight of
fire
To crown some victor, in his keen desire.
O -radiant gift of gods to mortal man!
While yet the Spring rides in her airy van,
Decking the dawn with many a golden rose
From your pure font the fount of beauty
flows.
Poems still patter through the pleasant rain,
Music is with the lark in every lane.
And though men offer you their battle pall
Triumphant rings your pman over all.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Between Ourselves.
Let us be joyous for a little space;
Emptied the cup of earth of its last tear:
While Summer clasps a scarf of laughter-
lace
With a red rose beneath a sun-kissed ear.
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


r,
W«H\W
immti^Sni'fflgKSS
Q
/ )i® US—
BK {Mill:
=
*F=
I
42*
/ , ///
PERDRIAU
RUBBER CONVEYOR
BELT
In connection with the Government’s proposal
for the BULK HANDLING OF WHEAT, the
keynote of the whole idea is the use of a series of
Rubber Belts for the conveyance of wheat from
the trucks to the vessels loading nearby.
Mining. Industrial and Manufacturing concerns
with vast handling and transport problems to solve
are making the utmost use of Rubber Belts.
Perdriau Belts are in general use and giving
entire satisfaction throughout Australia.
Our illustration shows a section of the Rubber
Belts loading coal at Port Kembla. These belts
were manufactured by us and are said to be the
largest endless Rubber Belts in the world. They
load coal into vessels at a rate of over 600 tons per
hour.
Full particulars and prompt attention to all
inquiries.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
ALI, STATES.
COAL LOADING AT PORT KEMBLA, N.S.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENYER
• •3
\ :
PRICES
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL, SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no sieel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
df
gdf
gd
fg
df
Your car pulls better
at night time. Why?
Before petrol vapor can ignite, it must be
mixed with oxygen, of which ordinary air
contains a large proportion. The function
of the carburetor is to mix the petrol vapor
with air in the proportions which will give
the best result. The carburetor can take
in only a certain volume of air, and as the
night air contains more oxygen than air in
the daytime—a more powerful mixture is
always made at night, and your car pulls
better in consequence.
Plume Benzine
Easy starting—Sweet running—More miles
The more air your Motor Spirit will take,
the cheaper the running cost. Plume is
remarkable for the large amount of air it
takes, which makes it highly economical,
as air costs you nothing. “Plume” gives
more miles to the gallon, is easy starting,
and ensures a clean cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
Gargoyle Mobiloils seal the clearance of the piston
and give fall lubrication. There is a special grade
of Mobiloil specially manufactured for your car.
Write for free Recommendation Chart, showing the oil
you should use. “A grade for each type of Motor."
For sale at all dealers and garages.-
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
gdf
Pb 7
gdf
'
/
rii
*
I
IM
11
!.W
in
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
DUVAL & CO.,
CORNELL LTD.,
A. C. McCALLUM,
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD,
13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
ADELAIDE.
PERTH.
HOBART.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vou 3?.—No. 1028.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 1917.
I’rice 6d.
THE DECEIVER.
Herr Solf. speaking at Berlin, regretted the danger of Samoan and New Guinea natives lapsing from kultur and German Christianity under Australasian Administra-
tion. Germany must certainly get her colonies back.— Cable.
“The voice is Jacob’s voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for the White Man.”
tainted and published by William Macleod, 'of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 fa's. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to .you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles , Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., It>)l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Home News Agency, 703 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kono. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Patua. —Whitten Bros., Samarqi.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
JOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, boz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
i/STiSi 'xHdfon.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 1917.
AUSTRALIA AND THE LONDON
CONFERENCE.
To be told that Britain is anxious to have
the Prime Ministers in London for the pur-
pose of securing their personal assistance in
winning the Avar and deciding upon the terms
of peace merely provokes suspicion. Who
believes it? Winning the war is the job of the
Allied armies and navies, and the terms of
peace will be decided by the course of mili-
tary and naval events. So far as the imme-
diate interests of the oversea British com-
munities are concerned, their anxieties are
os well knoAvn in London as they are in Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Representatives of
these communities have been in England
since the war began. Most of them have
talked about war and peace at the top of
their voices. For none of them is there
anything left to say on either subject. If
there was, the mail and cable services would
be available. The men asked to attend the
Conference have definite work to do in their
own countries. While they are in London
this work Avill be left in the ice-chest. But
out of the confabulations there Avill emerge
something that is likely to make a lot of the
postponed work seem very small —something
that will raise issues going to the very root
of our national being. Imperial Federa-
tion looked like an idle dream in the long
years of peace and slouch. Many Austra-
lians indeed imagined that the ideal of the
Avhole-hoggers had been abandoned except
for purposes of academic discussion. They
never made a greater mistake. The force
behind this movement is greater than ever.
The Avar has stimulated it and incidentally
changed many of the problems surrounding
the relationships of British countries.
* * * *
It is easy to see what the sequence of
events beginning with the London Confer-
ence Avill be. There is the invitation to
join in “deliberations of an Imperial charac-
ter.” There are the assertions that the
dignity and responsibilities of the “Do-
minions” are at length being recognised and
they are “taking their rightful place at last
beside the Mother Country as arbiters of
their destiny and hers.” There are the
speeches made in England by representative
men from beyond the sea —-by men like
Fisher and Hughes and Massey and the
lately-dead Bernhard Wise and dozens of
others; there are appeals from India ; there
are even the recorded utterances of the
French-Canadian Nationalist llenhi Bouß-
assa—all insisting that the British conn-
tries should have a voice in the foreign
policy of Britain, that they must be ad-
mitted to a partnership, that it is a mockery
of their local sovereignty if war can be made
upon them without responsibility or choice
on their part. This Conference is the response
to all that: it is the first step towards pre-
paring for permanent political representa-
tion at Westminster—for reconstruction of a
water-logged and overweighted British Par-
liament on the basis of devolution in Britain
and Ireland and the creation of an assem-
blage charged with the complex job of hand-
ling the problems common to all. That
there are such problems it is no use denying.
The question whether they can be met in the
way suggested is another matter. But the
point just now is not whether some scheme
that is merely floating in the air is practical.
It is that this Conference is to be the body
• from which is expected to come something
that will serve as the foundation of an
organic Imperial system.
* * * *
All the indications, at any rate, point in
that direction, and are a warning to Aus-
tralia that whoever the nation’s representa-
tive at this Conference may be, he must be a
serious, responsible incarnation of Aus-
tralian ideals. The consequences of the
Commonwealth being spoken for by a man
of reckless tongue would be deplorable.
Hitherto Imperial Federation has attracted
few Australians, and the objections they
have had in the past to government by ex-
ternal authority—to being dragged into
obligations and enterprises with which they
have no concern—have not been modified by
recent events. The doctrine that their job is
here in Australia, and that it is nobody
else’s job, is firmly held; and this paper
knows of no reason, contemporary or his-
torical, to make it believe that future gener-
ations of Australian-born will modify that
view. The people of to-day have grown up
in an atmosphere of Nationalism. Though
there have been illusions about their inde-
pendence, it has been their governing senti-
ment ever since autonomous government
became a fact. Some of these illusions have
been violently banished; but we are not
yet ready to remedy the proved defects by
abandoning our visions and ambitions and
rushing into foreign entanglements. This,
however, means tremendously serious respon-
sibilities. The Bulletin is under no delu-
sions about everything being the same after
the war as it was before, or that the same
old rut Ayill be at the ancient address. The
Avorld is in flames. When these are stamped
out there will be a lot more to do for the
national future than to chatter about it.
Nationalist ambitions will not be realised
by talk or by bowing down to a joss, no
matter how good a joss it may be. Neither
economically nor territorially can Australia
be safe unless the people show the courage
and the enterprise such a contract as they
have on hand demands. One of our greatest
perils is that the habit of shirking Avith which
the Australian Parliaments have been
afflicted during the last feAV years may be a
sinister indication of the condition of mind
of the people. If this is so, the Common-
wealth may soon be directed on to entirely
new and entirely wrong lines. The pressure
to send it there will without a doubt be
considerable. For Britain is being put to" a
strain that is shakintr her to the boots; and
to strengthen herself she will surely turn to
those countries abroad inhabited by British
people who Avithin a generation or two will
have a nopulation exceeding her own. She
will be moved by no spirit of mild inquiry,
but by the vital considerations of self-
defence. Australia must, therefore, look
soon for questions that Avill be a searching
test of her strength and vision.
TRAINING IN THE DESERT.
Moses, the dim mixture of prophet and
statesman who stands at the back of Israel-
itish tradition, led a million people out into
the desert where the Australian Light Horse
are now adding something to history. For 40
years he kept his crowd marching to and fro
in the comparatively narrow area of hot
rock and sand which lies between Suez and
the Dead Sea. It was severe training, but
it seems to have been effective; for the slave
nation, which left Egypt with a feeble han-
kering after fleshpots it had not the pluck
to plunder, broke into Palestine as a fierce,
fighting army which could bear down the
weightiest opposition. The desert did it.
Hunger, thirst, march and counter-march
combined with heat and cold to harden up
the children of slaves, and turn them into
fighting men. The Jew has passed through
a lot of trials and tribulations since; but
the 40 years in the wilderness stands to him
still. At the outset of the present war, the
British Imperial authorities took a leaf
from the book of Moses. Whether the long
training of Australian troops in the ancient
deserts around the* Pyramids and ruins of
forgotten cities was necessary or merely
ornamental it is impossible to say. Certainly
Gaba Tepe and Lonesome Pine did not hint
that the sand had harmed the soldiers of
Australia. That they might have done equally
well without it is possible; that they could
have been trained more comfortably and
quite as efficiently nearer home is certain.
Had Australia possessed a better military
organisation, our soldiers might have gone
directly from Liverpool and Broadmeadows to
take the Turk by the beard and argue with
him about the road- to Constantinople. But
the training in the desert did not entirely
miscarry; and it may even have been the
best thing under the mixed and incoherent
circumstances.
Wanderings in the wilderness and train-
ing in the desert have gone to the making
.of some of the world’s biggest things.
Through deserts of persecution and ages of
proscription the early Christians won their
wav to the spiritual conquest of Europe.
Islam had a- somewhat similar experience of
briefer duration in the deserts of Asia. Out
of the wastes of serfdom, injustice and
bitter contempt the French people rose to
the height of democracy, In fact, almost
everything in the past which looks wortn
while came out of a wilderness of some
sort • and not one movement of permanent
worth had its birth in a nightingale-haunted
rose-garden or a palace of age-long delights.
From the rugged, strenuous, hungry time
came the force that made for prosperity,
kindness and real human progress. Whether
this is a law of life or a mere accident
remains to -be proved. In the ordinary evolu-
tion of life there should come a time when
the bitter of history fails to repeat itself;
and such a period seemed to have been
reached when Australia combined to take
on the responsibilities of nationhood. True,
Australian pioneers had been to some extent
trained in the desert. They accepted hard-
ships and faced the difficulties of loneliness
and incessant toil in a new- land. But it
was a good new land, and the pastures of
promise were never far distant. In the
great peace which succeeded the fall of
Napoleon, Australian settlement shaped
the future States and laid the foundations
of the Commonwealth Of the future. Except
for the few' Who came aS convicts to the
Nark State and Tasmania, the men and
Women who peopled Australia went, not
only voluntarily, but even gladly into the
new Land of Promise. They were not forced
out from older lands by persecution or
hatred; and their choice of a new home
was a deliberate one. Bloodless, free and
ever moving towards still greater freedom,
Australia saw the placid years of her in-
fancy glide by. They were years of plenty,
and seemed to be the prelude to a future of
even greater bounty. There was no desert
training in the background. Of all nations,
earth’s last and newest alone seemed to be
born pangless.
* * * *
But, looking back over the years during
w-hich Australia has regarded herself as a
nation, a cloud of doubts arises to set us
wondering and guessing. The promise of
nationhood has not been fulfilled; the
earnest purpose which was supposed to give
life and reality to Australian unity has not
proved itself. ' Is it possible that we, too,
must yet take our turn in the wilderness?
The one thing quite clear is that we are
heading that way. Already the confusion of
our politics, the inability of our leaders to
understand grave issues and the unwilling-
ness of our democracy to carry its own
burdens have brought us to the sun-scorched
verge. The plenty which Australia has
hither.to enjoyed has been easily won, or
more easily borrowed, and has led to an
extraordinary belief that our wealth is in-
exhaustible. On the one hand, the poli-
tician, taxing and borrowing and squander-
ing, professes to believe that debts ahd re-
sponsibilities of any magnitude can be met
by the people whenever they fall due. On
the other, the majority of the,, people, as
represented by the trade Unions, regard the
capital of the country as so much cash
locked in the banks from which higher and
higher wages may be drawn if only the work
of the nation is stopped often enough by
strikes or thrown into confusion by threats
of worse things to follow. As a plain fact,
Australia’s wealth is not inexhaustible. Our
national capital represents no more than
five years of national labor and production;
and. between the claims for interest on loan
moneys ill expended and the .demand for
wages unearned, we are being forced out
into a desert as bitter and bleak and hungry
as any of those in which other nations
perished or had their training. It may be
necessary for us. It may give us strength
and sincerity and the honest outlook upon
the future which we appear to lack. Yet,
on the face of it, it is poor business to throw
away the starting advantage which we
undoubtedly possessed. Moses led Israel
into ‘ the w-ilderness because there was no
other place to lead them; but it would
be a nation of deep philosophers and
ardent zealots that deliberately left the
fleshpots and chose hunger and suffer-
ing. Australia does not look like a
nation of philosophers and zealots.. It seems
more like a ship, carrying six free fights
and seven drunken arguments by way of
cargo, which is rapidly drifting to a broad
sandbank marking the outer limit of the
great desert of despair. The hope of the
future may lie in that desert. But, again, it
may not.
YELLOW JOURNALISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was trying to decipher the tablets in a
fine old deserted Confucian temple in the
native city when he materialised alongside
of me. He seemed to have plenty of leisure
time. His queue had gone in the popular
revolt against Manchu rule, and his hair
had not yet decided on its final shape. He
had wild eyes but an engaging manner, and
was dressed in native costume. He told me
he was an editor.
An editor! This was a discovery. I fol-
lowed him along a maze of narrow lanes to
his house, where he. gave me tea, introduced
me to his pretty wife, whose feet were not
bound, and oromised to show me over the
offices of his paper. The offices of the Shun
Pao were not in the native city. The atmo-
sphere of Chinese territory is not good
breathing for critics of the Government.
Stringent press laws and official squeeze can
be avoided by registering newspapers in the
foreign settlements; and that is where most
of the new journalism finds a haven.
The office of tlm Shun Pao, like this
editor, was of semi-Chinese architecture. It
had been a pioneer in* Chinese journalism,
and there was the glad smell of papt" and
printer’s ink natural to all newsr aper
offices —the same uproar of machinery, the
same aspect of untidiness as if the flood of
yesterday’s events had left its rubbish on
shelves and tables. The first pages of the
morrow morning’s issue, to go out to its
24,000 subscribers at three cents a head,
were already in the press. Three parts of
it consisted of advertisements at 25 cents
(Gd.) per inch of column. It used six sorts
of type, and read from right to left and
frotn the back page to the front. A young-
ster was cutting wood engravings' with
native skill. The staff numbered over a
hundred and were all editors; six of them,
at any rate, introduced themselves as such'
The editors lived on the premises and
messed together. Reuter’s, for $2OO per
month, supplied them with an excellent ser-
vice of news from the provinces, and their
foreign news they translated from the Eng-
lish newspapers, and thus published them a
day late. The editorial, managerial and
sub-editorial offices looked business-like
and were replete with typewriters and
other labor-saving devices. The type-
writers were all English ; a Chinese student
has patented a Chinese typewriter with a
capacity of 5000 characters, but it is still in
the experimental stage.
Nor were there any linotypes in the type-
setting rooms. The nearest approach to an
alphabet that the Chinese language has is
the 214 radicals. There are over 40,000
characters in the standard Chinese diction-
ary, and at least 10,000 are essential to the
modern journalistic style. There are no lino-
types, but the Chinese compositor faces the
appalling complexitv of his language with
naked fingers undismayed, moving about
amongst the type-boxes with uncanny ease
and quickness. Occasionally he takes a long
trip down the room in quest of a remote
character.
The Chinese equivalent of a printer’s
devil came in now and then with fresh
copy, or drew proofs and carried them off.
One room was devoted to the making of dies
for new- characters', which the rapid infusion
of foreign ideas into Chinese thought makes
a constant necessity.
From another press a now illustrated
monthly, with a circulation of 10,000 was
being issued. From the windows of the
Shun Pao I could see the signs of half a
dozen other newspapers. Along the s: -ot
were the fine premises of the Comm ■ ini
Press, turning out millions of copies j uly
of the best ancient and modern thought of
Europe— Siiakspeare, Darwin, Huxley,
Mill, Montesquieu, Rousseau, and Kidd
—and employing over 1000 native workers,
who share in the profits, are provided with
schools for their children, and sanitary sur-
roundings on the best Western models. This
is the Fleet-street of Asia, and down the
middle of it flowed the never-ceasing stream
of Chinese coolie traffic, staggering under its
enormous burdens and singing, instead of
the Marseillaise, its endless chant of labor.
The oldest newspaper in the world is the
Peking Gazette. Until 40 years ago it had
no rivals. Even 20 years ago the number of
newspapers i» China could be counted on
the fingers. But the war with Japan, with
its revelation of China’s weakness, gave a
tremendous impetus to progressive ideas.
Newspapers sprang up in every city. The
Government was at first delighted at the
frank criticisms of distant officials which it
Was able to read in the provincial press.
But when this new weapon was turned
against itself it awoke to the danger, and
the futile game, as old as monarchies and as
new as government by caucus, was began
of trying to stifle public opinion by sitting
on it. The Radical papers were driven over
the border where, -under the protection of
the British flag, they grew in power and
vituperative capacity. The first scalps that
the new journalism garnered in were those
of the Manchus. Yuan Sjiih-Iv’ai’s fol-
lowed, so soon as his ambitious hand aspired
to put the crown on it. But the Chinese
press is not entirely destructive. The
scholarly essays of Liang Ciii-ciiiao, a
far-seeing patriot, are 'unsurpassed in any
language. The best papers are trying to
leaven the inert mass of the people with the
elements of science, medicine and hygiene,
to combat the crude theology of Western
missionaries and to obtain the reform of the
barbarous penal code, the mandarinate and
national finance. There is a strong section
which advocates compulsory military ser-
vice, a big navy and efficient defence.
The Chinese Nortiicliffe, when he
aj'rives, w T ill command forces for good or
evil that would overwhelm his English pro-
totype by their terrific potentialities. In
China 400,000.000 await his coming. Add
to these the lesser millions of Cochin China
and Japan who use the Chinese character,
the growing colonies of Chinese which fringe
the whole Pacific shore from Tierra del
Fuego to the Gulf of Carpentaria, and you
have a public to which the English-reading
public is a handful. And from the dawn
of history these millions have revered the
printed word above their gods. In the next
world a sea of knives awaits the thoughtless
butcher who wraps up the morning sausage
in the morning newspaper. The whole
democratic system of Chinese government
depends on a competitive literary examina-
tion in which the lowest coolie can take part.
The highest honors in the Empire are handed
to the successful turner of delicate phrases.
Great masters of the Chinese pen (or brush)
have been deified, and the characters they
drew with such artistic consciousness have
stepped from the page and lived. Here then
is a field for the journalistic sower, rich and
ready for the sowing.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Democracy and its Leader!
“I ASK all Australians to join me in help-
ing to win the war—to do their utmost to
defeat the common enemy.” Thus Hughes.
And it sounds very well. But it is a fair
thing to ask what 'Hughes is doing to win
the war —not the war between himself and
Frank Anstey, but the nation’s war. The
latter ; s not going to be won by anything but
bayonets; and if Hughes is taking any
serious part in securing reinforcements for
the Australian regiments, no one except
himself knows anything about it. All that
the public hears about Hughes from day to
day is that he “w r ent to the seaside,” or "re-
turned from the country,” or “saw Hr.
Cook.” or something like that. It is the
picture of a furtive figure flitting surrep-
titiously to and fro in an atmosphere ot
mystery, hopping from wire to wire, spring-
ing from bough to bough, bamboozling him-
self and trying to humbu., everybody else.


There may be differences of opinion about
the proprietv of this. To some people it
m ay seem even decent. To The Bulletin
this spectacle of the Prime Minister of the
Australian Commonwealth occasionally
poking his head out of a hole to make a few
remarks and promptly vanishing into
obscurity is almost ghastly. In normal times
it might have a humorous aspect. There is
no humor about it to-day. No other country
engaged in the war is burdened with a load
like this. In every one of them the Prime
Minister at least behaves as if he had
reasonable claims to be regarded as a
national leader. In none of them is the
political machine so clogged with the rust
of ages that it cannot respond to the needs
of the hour —so open to abuse that it can be
captured for the purposes of party vaude-
ville.
The Hypocrisy of the Defence Depart-
ment,
There is alleged to be wasteful administra-
tion at Australian military headquarters in
London; and, though an inquiry is pro-
mised, Defence-Minister Pearce more or
less prejudges the matter, declaring that lie
doesn’t think there can be waste because the
papers have spoken well of the administra-
tion. Pearce ought to know what would
happen if the papers said that the ad-
ministration was wasteful and proceeded to
prove it. If he doesn’t, The Bulletin will
tell him. A month ago, tired of making
general charges concerning the inefficiency
under his own nose in Melbourne, The
Bulletin cited one specific case. Dealing
with the matter circumstantially, so that
there should be no doubt about it, The
Bulletin showed that for the better part
of a year a comic-opera correspondence had
been occupying the attention of officials,
from generals downwards, as to whether a
junior clerk should be given a rise of a
few shillings a week. The State Command-
ant had recommended it on the grounds (1)
that the clerk was doing work entitling him
to the rise, and (2) that he had qualified for
a higher position. The correspondence,
which began with the State Command-
ant, wandered on interminably, and after a
vast expenditure of red-tape ended nowhere.
And how did the Department meet this
proof that time and money were being
wasted? By raiding The Bulletin office
with a formal demand under the War Pre-
cautions Act for all documents and informa-
tion that would help it to trace the person
who was responsible for the exposure of
this scandal! For a newspaper to expose
the incompetence of the Department’s
methods in this way was alleged to be aid-
ing and abetting in a crime, and the crime
of the aider and abettor is punishable with
six months’ gaol and any number of fines of
£lOO each. Now the Minister whose De-
partment takes such measures to prevent the
only sort of criticism that really counts—
the criticism that can go into details—
tells the public that he doesn’t think there
can be anything wrong because the news-
papers haven’t said anything about it! .The
hypocrisy of it!
__ ♦
The Profits of the Strike.
Wiiat astonishingly profitable business these
strikes are for the rugged, stubborn toilers
who in defence of high principle—which does
not always include the keeping of honorable
treaties —hold up the business of the coun-
try ! The moulders, who dropped their tools
last September and left them lying where
they fell for 15 weeks, were fighting against
a decision of the Wages Board which ■ re-
duced their earnings from Is. 9d. to Is. 6d. per
hour. They went back to work —if there was '
any work for them—at Is. 74d., which
amounted to an increase of six shillings per
week on the award they repudiated. In the
meantime each striker had lost about £54 in
wages—a sum which he may make good by
sticking steadily at toil for 34 years with-
out strike or other disturbance. But what
about the other losses? Contingent trades
and workers whose daily toil linked into that
of tbe moulders lost cash also. In 50 direc-
tions the work of the country was delayed
and time was wasted which in a real sense
can never be made good. If the whole bill
against each individual striker could be pre-
sented, it w 7 ould amount to a sum that
might stagger some of the believers in crude
and antiquated methods of labor warfare.
And not only does the loss of wages in the
strike itself destroy the benefit of any in-
creases obtained, but by continual strikes
the national capital, which is the real basis
of every pay-sheet, is frittered away. A
nation at work can afford to pay a lot to its
workers; a nation that is half the time out
of a job through the workers’ own act can’t.
The moral is: Keep at work and fight with
saner and subtler weapons—a lesson the
whole country was supposed to have learned
pretty thoroughly a generation ago.
♦
The Leak in the Boom Bladder.
Australia’s friend Bloat is _ beginning
once more to explain what a disreputable
old fraud he is. Deputations pursuing
N. S. Wales Ministers for the expenditure
of more money are told that the cashbox is
mostly filled with emptiness, and there is
great tribulation about men being thrown
out of employment. Then follow wild lan-
guage and denunciation of the Ministry for
not continuing the borrowing policy on
which the State has climbed to a great
“prosperity”; and threats are made that
unless Ministers make a deal with Cohen
and restore confidence an army of unem-
ployed will be marshalled in Sydney to insist
upon another loan, because if there is no
loan there can be no wages. The fact, of
course, is that the Government has been
spending millions as they were never spent
before, and this outlay, so far from doing
the people directly employed any good, has
simply manufactured disaster for them. Bloat
leads directly to unemployment and nowhere
else. Borrowing has always been the lazy
politician’s stall. It has saved him the
trouble of thought and action. And the
great tragedy to Australia has been that the
men who have spent most time mouthing
about their anxiety to protect the workers
and build un the country’s industries are the
men who have been the most profligate in
'their borrowings—who have done least to
stabilise employment. Though millions are
being spent by the Federal Government,
though thousands of men are out of the
country, the biggest harvest the State has
known with one exception being bagged, and
a cataract of imported goods pouring into
Australian ports, the Holman Government
squandered £6,000,000 of loan money during
the last six months—and thousands of men
are out of work! Australia is probably the
only civilised country in the world to-day
in which there is unemployment, and it is
so mainly because it has not mastered the
problem of how to earn a living. Meanwhile
note, as the probable explanation of the
whole matter, that Australia is still import-
ing most things, from clothes-pegs to pianos,
and the year ended with a‘ record of 764
strikes.
Sympathy as a Staple Food.
About a year ago a deputation of Austra-
lian poultry-breeders made certain remarks
to then Customs Minister Tudor and invited
him to take action. He listened courteously
and offered his sympathy, and that was the
end of it. Last week another deputation,
from the National Poultry Breeders, col-
logued with Minister Archibald and asked
him to do something. They got his sym-
pathy also; whether they will get anything
else remains to be seen. Yet the poultry-
breeders’ troubles are obvious enough; the
disaster that threatens them is equally
plain, and the remedy can be noticed with
the naked eye. The few relevant facts are
(1) that in 1913 China dumped 200.000,000
dozen eggs on the ’EMscd market; (2) that
the U.S.A. promptly put a prohibitive duty
on eggs; (3) that China then turned her
attention to Australia, among other coun-
tries, and last year unloaded £26,700 worth
of hen-fruit on the Commonwealth, as against
£1176 worth the year before; and (4) that
the existing revenue duty of 6d. per dozen
is absolutely no protection against China.
In his reply Archibald vamped up the quite
irrelevant story that the U.S.A.’s Protective
tariff is successful because she has a home
market of 100,000,000 people, quite forget-
ting that Victoria’s Protective tariff first
applied to about 500,000. Still, he gave the
breeders his sympathy. They will have that
consolation when they have been driven out
of the business; also they will have leisure
to reflect on the wisdom of sending Free-
traders and fiscal sinkers to Parliament.
Likewise, when a mere handful of people
are struggling with the vast debt which this
war is going to leave us, other people besides
ex-poultry-raisers, may do some cursing. For
Ah Sin, who grows the eggs that we ought
to be growing ourselves, and Gin Fat, his
brother who supplies him with the hen-
fodder that a good Australian ought to be
growing, will certainly not carry any of our
huge interest load.
-v
Repatriation by Jaw.
Another agreement has been arrived at
between the Federal and State Governments
in reference to repatriation. It is described
as being “a broad general agreement.” The,
details are not yet open for inspection. It
is about the 167th agreement and in all proba-
bility about 46 more will yet be unanimously
arrived at. Meanwhile the Federal Min-
istry is talking over the appointment of a
Director of Repatriation. As it is just
about time that this business was redeemed
from a chaos that is at once tragic and
ludicrous, such an appointment looks desir-
able —if the right man gets it. But who-
ever the Director of Repatriation may be. a
great responsibility will still rest upon the
politicians. The policy or scheme to be fol-
lowed must be the work of Governments, and
it is this that Australia wants to hear about.
Up to the present there is nothing but
vague talk. The latest contribution -comes
from the N. S. Wales Minister for
Lands, who has been explaining that
when the repatriation scheme gets qn
its legs men will be able to acquire
farms and advances, and after going into
residence will be paid regular wages for two
years. This sounds better than ever; but
The Bulletin wearily asks for someone to
explain where the “farms” are and how long
is it going to be before the returned soldier
can find their address, a supply of cash for
capital expenditure and a two years’ job.
Until something definite is available this
continual flow of words merely suggests that
for a start the Director of Repatriation
would be best employed in applying a few
gags.
Planting Venereal Disease in the Park.
Meagher, Gaud Mayor of Sydney, has been
talking the usual platitudes in defence of
the attempt to grab a further portion of the
Domain for hospital purposes. His Emi-
nence’s first flabby remark was that the
claims of the sick were above those of public
recreation. This may be so, but it has no
sort of bearing on the case. There is the
whole breadth of the State in which to find
housing for the sick, while the breathing
space of Sydney is limited and, once lost,
wall never be restored. Meagher’s argu-
ment might be made to cover a lot of ground.
The claims of the sick are more important
than those of the travelling public. There-
fore the Central Railway Station should be
turned into a hospital. The claims of the
sick are more important than those of a
Gaud Mayor. Therefore the Gaud Mayor’s
screw should be handed over to the sick.
But the whole shallow premise is wrong.
The claims of disease are not greater than
those of recreation. To heal the sick is an
important business, but it is not nearly so
important as to keep the healthy healthy;
and the breathing spaces of the city are a
means towards the preserving of public
health. “Recreation,” says Meagher, “is
of little use to a sick man, unless he is first
nursed back to health.” But does this futile
reasoner, who would cut down shrubs and
trees to make room for venereal disease,
actually imagine that the whole population
is sick and that there are none needing
recreation until they are first cured of
syphilis? Prevention is still many degrees
better than cure; and the horse-sense of the
public in demanding the integrity of its parks
is still some distance ahead of the fatuous
reasoning of the chief despoiler.
»
Cocky and His Wheat.
Cocky has made a demand on Australia that
he should be guaranteed 4s. a bushel for his
wheat during the next couple of years. Pro-
tected on the local market he wants protec-
tion on the foreign market, too; in this in-
stil nee the request is for a shield against
(1) the submarine, (2) the probability of the
Canadian harvest this year being a normal
one, (3) the likelihood of John Bull grow-
ing more wheat on his own account, as he
certainly can and should, and (4) anything
happening to liberate the vast accumulations
of grain in Russia. It is a good, able-
bodied demand, and if it . were granted and
Cocky could induce the churches to co-oper-
ate and arrange for a rainfall more copious
than it was in ’l5, and less emphatic than
in T 6, he would be in for a fairly good time.
But the demand is made in the wrong place.
It is really one for the British Government,
not the Federal Government. Britain is
the buyer. If Britain is prepared to say
that she will give Cocky 4s. for his wheat
during the next couple of years the rest is
easy. But there is no good reason why
the Australian taxpayer should be asked to
do this on the off-chance of the Government
being able to get through on the deal; and
there are plenty of good reasons why he
shouldn’t consent even if he were
asked. The gamble is big enough as it
is without the Commonwealth undertaking
to indemnify Cocky at the public expense
against risks that are common to every busi-
ness. The basis of the existing arrange-
ment is that growers shall share equally in
the realisation of the crop and, by the elim-
ination of the speculator, secure the full
selling value. By this the grower has been
protected and the State is not involved in
risk. That is far enough for the Australian
Government to go. If, however, the British
Government feels that to secure a supply for
its own people it should bid higher than was
sufficient to provoke the production of well
over 300,000,000 bushels in Australia in the
last two harvests, there will be nothing to
object to by anyone.
Conscientious Objection.
Whether the British method of dealing with
the conscientious objector to military ser-
vice is all that it might be or not, the result
has shown that the number who will face the
consequences of refusing to bear arms is a
negligible quantity. Up to August last only
1700 had been arrested on the charge, and
900 of these, who had been actually enrolled
in the army, were afterwards tried by court-
martial for refusing duty. The procedure
in England is to hold the person with a
scruple against war in the safety of a civil
prison pending inquiry by the Central
Appeal Tribunal. When that body con-
siders that the case is a good one, the
objector is offered work of national import-
ance under civil control, lie can take the
work or stay in prison. The small per-
centage who first and last find their con-
sciences stubborn enough to stand the test
proves that the reign of peace per medium
of passive resistance is still a long way off.
With the prospect of work before him and
the means of escape open by way of war, the
average person who has suddenly developed
a distaste for blood will generally hear the
bugle call. Australia’s conscientious ob-
jectors at the Referendum poll appeared to
number hundreds of thousands; but, then,
the casting of a No vote didn’t entail the
awful alternative of real toil which couldn’t
be side-stepped.
♦
“Copabella”: The official methods of the
lately-deceased conscription campaign were
so full of bad tactics as to give the impres-
sion that the Government was trying to
defeat its own programme. The opening
phase suggests that the new recruiting
scheme is to run on precisely the same lines.
That every soldier gained by this last absurd
campaign will cost the country about his
weight in gold is obvious to most men ; but.
unless the whole thing is a gigantic face-
saving fake, at least a pretence of sincerity
of motive might, be made. The movement
was formally inaugurated in our suburb last,
week, and this was the method of it. The
ex-officio local chairman is a notorious “anti”'
with two eligible sons driving expensive
motor-cars in the teeth of the men it is
hoped to recruit. He only has to rise to his
feet in a public meeting to have the query
thrown at him: “What about your boys?”
The ex-officio deputy chairman’s family of
four eligibles' hasn't given one to the army:
two of them plunged into matrimony at the
first hint of universal service, and father
wept tears of blood in an attempt to save
a third from the tender mercies dealt out
in the recent Exemption Courts. The ex-
officio electoral chairman of the divisions of
which we are a part stumped the country
during the Conscription campaign as
an apostle not of Anti-Compulsion but of
We’ve-Done-Enough. The organising secre-
tary for the division, a good fellow and a
returned soldier, is the man who represented
the military in the Exemption Court. lie
did his work then conscientiously, and natu-
rally is anathema to the 900 cold-footed
eligibles who took part in that notorious
funk-parade. The sight of him approaching
is sufficient to nip sprouting patriotism in
the bud. As a and Gallipoli vet r
eran he would probably do excellently some-
where else —so lie’s left here. Perhaps that's
why ! Remains then the recruiter. He, too,
is a and Loos soldier, but he is
turned on to this work in a strange suburb,
without so much as a tin tag on him to show
who he is, and his accosting of the “pro-
spect” mostly earns the question: “What
th’ell’s it got to do with you?” I showed
him round on the first night after his ap-
pointment. I heard him address three groups
and be told to “Get ” twice and “Go to
” the other time !
The Australian Commonwealth’s present
bad habit of making the War Loan free of
income taxes is unfair to the small investor.
Income taxes in Australia are almost in-
variably graduated; and the Commonwealth
has allowed a full deduction of £156 from
income derived from any property. That is
to say, a person whose income from pro-
perty is £156 or less has paid no income tax.
Therefore the provision freeing an invest-
ment in the War Loan from income tax is
worth nothing to the small investor. But it
is worth a great deal to the large investor.
In effect, the richer the investor the more the
War Loan is worth to him; and that is a
rotten system. And it looks still more
rotten when it is offered by a Government
which calls itself Labor. The proper plan
is to make this investment subject to taxa-
tion like any other investment and fix the
interest at a much higher figure accordingly.
Moreover, if that were done the investment
would look far more attractive.
«. .
A quaint Sydney delegate to Melbourne
—one Harris —has objected to J. C. Wat-
son’s proposal to bring the apparently-
hopeless Aus. Nat. Democratic League into
a straight line with the National Federa-
tion “because the Victorian section was in-
tent on advocating High Protection.” While
Mr. Harris was attempting to identify the
new party with the old Freetrade low-wage
crowd, some Victorians were interviewing
Customs Minister Archibald for the re-
moval of the duty on imported wattle-bark,
now 30s. a ton. “Tanners,” said Zwar,
president of the Vic. Tanners’ Association,
“required 30,000 tons, and not one-third of
this was in sight in Australia, and it was
obvious that 20,000 tons of it would have
to be imported.” Kane, of the North Mel-
bourne Bark Mills, said his firm required
2500 tons and had between 200 and 300
tons:—-
There was no possibility of getting the balance of
2200 tons locally. The areas under wattle were
steadily diminishing. An abnormally wet December
had put back stripping until it clashed with the
wheat harvest, and there were not enough men to do
both. The bark would not be worth more than 30s.
to 40s. per ton. America and Europe had already
awakened to be strong rivals by buying South
African bark, and they were not handicapped with
the same dut5 7 as Australian tanners.
Here you have the blessings of Freetrade.
Our main work in the handling of one of
the “natural resources” bleated about by
the Reids and Cooks has been to supply
wattle-seed to Africa in order that we might
buy back the bark in competition with
America and Europe! And yet the quaint
Mr. Harris is against the Victorian end of
the new party because it advocates High
Protection.
Song of the Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So long ago, so long ago, when Spring was
laughing-eyed.
The brawling tide of action swept a-near and
thundered wide,
A rancor-woven tempest rose and raged
incessantly,
And Youth awoke and steeled himself to
cross the leagues of sea.
Youth with roses in his hat
Fared a-field to bear his load,
And the hoofs beat rat-ta-tat
Down the Parramatta-road.
And vigor marched with hope beside—so
long ago it seems—
So long ago, ere hate destroyed their slender
woof of dreams:
When comrades voiced a chorus high that
spoke of hearts a-swell,
They passed away together down the aisle of
blurred farewell.
To the martial strains of war.
In a human stream they flowed,
And the foot-beats sounded far
Down the Parramatta-road.
The long highway is ringing yet and now
the chorus swells
In sweetly-measured praises of the silent
Dardanelles.
And other men are marching for the coming
great advance
With their comrades from Australia out in
Sinai and France.
Some are up and marching back —
As in other days they strode
To the ghastly night attack
On a crimson-wetted road —•
Mended men are marching back
Down the Parramatta-road !
SINAI.
GERARDY.
White Ants.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Treasury strong-room, where the gold reserve
of the Commonwealth is stored, has been invaded by
white ants. They arrived in some boxes, contain-
ing copper coins, from India. The Director of
Quarantine was called in and administered poison.
White ants are gnawing at a nation’s gold—
White ants from overseas.
The shining coin we fondled well of old
Is crawled upon by these
In some still place where, hidden from the
light,
We thought the lid was on the treasure tight.
White ants are gnawung at a nation’s
strength-
Home-bred or foreign-grown.
Through strike and threat of strike we learn
at length
How little is our own
Of that potential wealth that only toil
Can conquer from the richest, kindliest soil.
White ants are gnawing at a nation’s hope.
We know 7 not whence they came.
Blindly along the dark we stumbling grope
With weary feet and lame,
While politicians without shame or pride
The seamless garment of our faith divide.
White ants ■ White ants ! The woodwork
crumbles fast.
May the foundations stand
That on the ruins we may build at last
. With firmer, surer hand.
White ants! White ants! And still they
gnaw and bite
Till someone poisons party out of sight.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


FOUNDED IN THE FARMERS’ INTERESTS!
Warmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited.
FIRE—MARINE—WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION Insurances at Lowest Rates.
How the Farmer Benefits;
A glance at the magnificent results attained by other co-operative cos. indicates
what the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-op. Insurance Co. of Australia, Ltd., can do
for the farmers of Australia in handling their insurance.
For instance, the Canterbury Farmers’ Co-op. Association (N.Z.) pays 8£ p.c.
dividend, 5 p.c. bonus on purchased goods, and 15 p.c. on selling commissions, and
has built up a powerful financial institution.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co- of Australia is established
on the soundest basis. See what The Bulletin “Wild Cat” column said on
October 5, 1916.
At the last balance (July 31) the co. had over 1000 co-operators, with a subscribed
capital of £16,337, of which £14,836 was intact—a guarantee of prudent manage-
ment.
“The result of the first year’s trading are gratifying.” said Tiie Bulletin.
On the first year’s operations a dividend of SIX PER CENT, was paid.
INSURE IN YOUR OWN CO. Fullest particulars gladly supplied on application.
Farmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches in Queensland, Victoria and South Australia.
The Wait to Wade from Mud to Blood.
When proceedings were interrupted by the
mud 12 months ago the newspapers were
full of yarns about the German’s empty
pantry. The same thing is happening now.
Before the water had drained away last
year the German had. launched his attack on
Verdun and he has been busy all this winter
in Roumania. That he will not p fight hard
when the campaign is again resumed on
the Western Front is far too much to expect.
The chances are that it will be more terrible
than any that has yet taken place. Gigantic
preparations have been made by the Allies;
and the readiness with which the German
met the danger threatening him in the Bal-
kans is in itself sufficient evidence that lie
has the force and organisation to encounter
still heavier blows elsewhere. Nevertheless,
the very fact that the pending engagements
will be terrific gives hope that the final
phases of the war are not far distant. Mean-
while tin' appearance of an enemy raider
in the South Atlantic and the activity of
the submarine are reminders that the
enemy’s powers of destruction are still
strong, and on neither sea nor land have
undergone any serious diminution during the
past 12 months. Should he with the assistance
of outsiders have succeeded in establishing
bases of supply in out-of-the-way places for
commerce destroyers, the work ahead of the
navy will become more exciting than
ever; and it is probable that, knowing of
the diversion of shipping to secure for
Britain and France supplies of Australian
wheat, something of this kind has at least
been attempted. The possibilities of such
an enterprise carried out on a large scale
are not particularly pleasant to think about.
However, lost the situation should be with-
out its comic relief, Greece still comes to the
rescue. In the history of the war this
gigantic joke will require a separate volume
to itself. The other day there appeared to
be a doubt in London as to whether Von
Falkeniiayn had not arrived in Greece on
an aeroplane and started organising ’Tino’s
army to attack the Allies in the rear. There
was no certainty for several days one way
or the other; in fact, the idea that there
is any certainty about anything at nil in that
locality until after it has happened is
mighty hard to swallow.
Cable from London :
The Bar Council has overwhelmingly defeated a
motion proposing the admission of women to prac-
tise at the Bar. The Attorney-General (Sir Robert
Finlay, K.C.) and others argued that it would be
unfair to consider tlie question while 1300 barristers
were absent on active service.
A woman has no right to have any brains.
She can be a motor-driver or a munition-
worker or a farm-laborer while the men are
away fighting; but to be a lawyer or even
start to acquire the necessary equipment
while the men in that line of business are
away would be morally wrong! If this is the
best argument these mouldy defenders of a
sex monopoly have, it looks as if they ought
to be inoculated against the ravages of
senile decay.
Boyd, the Freetrade M.11.R. for Ilenty
(Vic.), recently introduced a deputation to
the Customs asking for a duty on eggs from
Asia. According to Boyd, “Australian hens
are good enough to lay Australian eggs for
Australian stomachs.” But Australian men
are not good enough to make Australian
wool into clothes for Australians or Aus-
tralian hides into Australian boots or Aus-
tralian iron into Australian steel. Appar-
ently the Freetrade gospel is that the Aus-
tralian hen is a vastly superior animal to
Australian men.
Burgess, the ex-Treasurer who forms
most of Lee’s 'majority in the Tasmanian
Assembly, has asked the Hobart Liberals
to let him resign. He says he is sick of the
whole business and that the Liberal Ministry
is landing the country in a worse mess than
its Labor forerunner. The Government’s
war-time economy has bumped up the
Speck’s expenditure from £1,294,709 for
1915-16 to an estimated £1,405,191 for the
present financial year, while in the last
three years the interest bill has soared from
£464,000 a year to £618,000 and is still soar-
ing. They persuaded William to hang on
for a while, but he is pretty gloomy about
it.
The young man defended himself with an
alihi against a charge of assault on Sunday
at Randwick (Sydney). He led in wit-
nesses to prove that at 6.30 a.m. he had
taken a lady to Bondi to surf, and they
breakfasted there. At 10 a.m. he joined a
mixed motor party, which took him to
National Park. At 4 p.m. he was on a
launch in Port Jackson, and stayed for a
picnic tea. At 8 p.m. he was at a club, play-
ing billiards; and before 10 p.m. he was at
the house of “a friend.” He reached home
at 1 a.m. Evidently he was a religious
voting man, who believed in keeping the
Sabbath wholly.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cinema Star”
Criterion “Mum Dawson, Boss”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Dandies
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built”
Royal “The House of Glass”
Princess’s "She Stoops to Conquer”
King’s “Happy-go-lucky O’Shea”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olymria ........ Moving Pictures
Auditorium “Ramona’
Once upon a time Sumner Locke wrote
a book called “Mum Dawson, Boss.” Then
she wrote a play with the same title. It
would be interesting to find out where that
play has gone to. At Sydney Criterion on
Saturday Bert Bailey produced a play whose
only connection with the book was the fact
that a few of the characters bore the same
names. The central character, Mum Daw-
son, is subordinated to Old Man Dawson,
and even when she makes a pretence of
taking charge, we learn in the next act that
she has been over-ruled. There is much
shouting but very little boss about this new
Mum. The play that Bert built, or had
built for him, is as like his first Steele Rudd
success as is possible; evidently this is
the shape into which all Australian plays
must be squeezed before the only Australian
who has the pluck to produce Australian
plays will present them. The formula is a
simple one—broad farce, peopled by carica-
tures of the folks Outback, and invaded at
frequent intervals by a fiercely-melodramatie
and much-complicated plot. There were in
the first of this brand of play many touches
of real comedy, and the character drawing
was sometimes unspoilt by exaggeration.
Pathos was also introduced. In “Mum Da'”
son, Boss” it becomes bathos.
Sumner Locke’s story showed the humors
of a struggling selection; Sumner Locke’s
play deals chiefly with a get-rich-quick
scheme and the trials and troubles of a
manufacturing concern. Certainly the
second act. which shows Old Man Dawson
as a harried managing director, is very
funny, chiefly because Bert Bailey carries
most of the comedy upon his worried shoul-
ders. But the rest of the play suffers from
too much loud-voiced financial plot; and the
brief attempts at pathos are too obviously
dragged in by the hair. Occasionally a
remark by Sumner Locke can be detected
amid the medley, but mostly these are
swamped under wearisome caricatures of
superfluous characters.
Without Bert Bailey in his perennial
part of Dad the play would sag under its
heavy weight of plot. He carries the
whole thing on his shoulders, and carries it
“MUM DAWSON, BOSS," AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Dick Bellairs, country undertaker, and
Harry McDonna, storekeeper.
triumphantly. He gets small assistance
from Lilias Adeson’s Mum. She shouts her
way through, but there is fitPe pretence at
individuality behind her vigorous methods.
Fred Macdonald is hidden beneath a
beard, though occasionally the real Uncle
Dawson emerges. Guy Hastings and
Leslie Woods, the rival Rufus Wallingfords,
double-cross each other loudly and persist-
ently whenever The Plot takes charge of the
stage. Edmund Duggan makes a facially
expressive comedy Wallingford. Richard
Bellairs is a wearisome undertaker, and
there is too much of Harry Mac Donna’s
storekeeper, while IV illie Driscoll provides a
grotesque character that bears a suspicious
resemblance to his famous part in ‘ On Our
Selection.” Laura Roberts is hardly con-
vincing in a part out of her range, and
Clarice Hardwicke is satisfactory as a very
knowing ingenue. The season is limited to
two weeks, and the play is worth rushing roi
its delightful farcical second act, which is
chiefly Bert Bailey.
The Fullers’ “Bunyip, at Sydney
Adelphi, is still proving to misguided man-
agements that an Australian panto, is just
the tonic all Australian youngsters up to
70 have been wanting. Even the breath of
the gorgeous bushfire is refreshing compared
with the twang and slang of the imported
shows.
"The Cinema Star” is twinkling through
its fourth week at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
“MUM DAW SOX. BOSS.” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Uncle Dawson (Fred Macdonald) surprises
Old Man Dawson (Bert Bailey) during
his hath.
Since The Bulletin was called upon to
applaud the show at the Tivoli (Sydney)
last week there has been practically no
alteration in the programme. Yet, Sen Mei
must not be overlooked. A Chinese girl, she
is one of the daintiest figures that has ap-
peared on the Rickards stage, and her melo-
dious voice has alreadv won many friends.
The Bulletin is one of them.
Thursday is becoming a regular carnival
night at the White City (Sydney)—fancy-
dress to-night. The Bulletin suggests a
few appropriate disguises for the occasion—
W. M. Hughes, Lucifer; Senator Pearce,
Dummy; Jokook, Mr. Facing-Both-Ways;
Richard Denis Meagher, Get-Rich-Quick
Wallingford; P.L.L., Lord High Execu-
tioner; Isaac McShortodds, Bill Sikes; The
Shirker, Billjim ; Norton Griffiths, the Great
Australian Bight; Willy Watt, Christopher
Columbus; Frank Tudor, Br’er Rabbit. ■
Answers to Correspondents (crowded out
of the other place) : G.P.: fl) Best part-
singing to be heard in Sydney is at the
Garden Theatre by the Dandies; (2) any
William-street tram.
Among the Taits’ captures for the cast of
“Very Good Eddie,” which opens at Sydney
Palace on February 10, are two sweet young
Amurkans, Fayette Perry and Lilian Tucker.
Fayette is a diminutive blonde with spark-
ling blue eyes, a rose in each cheek, and
enough natural vivacity to turn a Methodist
funeral into a wake. Lately she was
appearing with Andrew Higginson in “The
Amber Princess” in Noo Yark. Lilian
Tucker is bigger and fairer and has the eyes
that poets’ dreams are made of. It is
alleged that the beauty of a Norwegian
ancestor is struggling for recognition in her
charming countenance, but the girl was born
Amurkan, thinks Amurkan, and wears the
latest Amurkan clothes. Before packing up
for Australia, she was using her soprano in
“The Soldier Boy” in Philadelphia.
Romance and melodrama on Sydney
screens this week :
Lyceum and Crystal Palace : “The Midnight
Riot,” the fourth instalment of Billie Burke’s
“Gloria’s Romance.”
Empress : A five-reel film of Maurice Leblanc’s
famous detective story, “Arsene Lupin.”
Hoyt’s: “Dorian’s Divorce,” an unusual mixture
of comedy and melodrama; “Her Mother’s Secret,”
in which the Fox Co. thinks of a few things that
may happen to a man who tries to run two homes.
As regards “The House of Glass” at Mel-
bourne Royal, one is first struck by the fact
that the heroine is introduced without a
character. Margaret Case lacks friends,
relatives and commonsense. Her simplicity
is a libel on girls that can earn 18 dollars
a week by stenography in Noo Yark City.
She is picked up casually by a young chauf-
feur who is also a twice-convicted crook,
and he apparently takes her for a joy-ride
and wins her confidence. Whilst courting
Margaret the jaunty crook burgles some-
body’s safe and secures jewellery worth 70.000
dollars and 20.000 dollars fn cash, where-
upon he tells his girl that he lias inherited
an unexpected fortune and will flee with
her at once for matrimonial purposes. The
artless maiden and the young professional
thief have known one another just a fort-
night when the curtain rises. Meanwhile
they have attracted the attention of detec-
tive Carroll by their conspicuous holiday-
making. They had both chucked up their
billets and gone shopping for four days be-
fore they were to leave New York. Hence
the natural police assumption that the lady
was in the know, if not actually in the bur-
glary. She herself was incapable of assump-
tions or suspicions. She took it for granted
that her young man’s legacy had been handed
to him immediately after the decease of his
supposititious uncle. When he produced a
pearl necklace worth 50.000 dollars she
accepted it as a fitting wedding present from
a bridegroom in his position. A babe unborn
is not more free from misgivings than Mar-
garet was ere detective Carroll came along
and caught Jimmy Burke in her room and
found the pearls in her travelling trunk.
That, the prologue, is Margaret’s Past
in the play, where she is 10 years older.
Having served IS months’ gaol owing to
her inability to tell the truth and shame the
jury, she is released on parole. But she
breaks her parole and escapes to Kansas
City, where she assumes stenographing and
marries the boss.' He takes her without
question, even as she had taken Jimmy
Burke. Soon his keen business intellect raises
him to the dignity of railway magnate and
makes him a terror to evildoers. The drama
in due course finds excuses for Jimmy and
Carroll to cross Margaret’s primrose path.
Jimmy turns up as a penitent and chas-
tened chauffeur; but the detective is an
incorruptible sleuth always sniffing for
trouble. That is his point of difference from
other Yankee detectives in previous dramas.
He is horribly incorruptible. lie wants the
silly Margaret who broke her parole, and
when he finds her in the wife of the great
railway manager new trouble begins.
Agonies of apprehension ! Groundless sus-
picion on the part of the husband who hap-
pens to have a derry on criminals! Kindly
efforts by mutual friends to avert scandai.
Manly behavior of chastened crook. Happy
ending.
* * * #
Robert Gfeig, as a large, fat lawyer,
gets the most grateful job in the drama. He
is always making jovial comments on free
drinks, or taking professional measures to
defeat the ruthless endeavors of the chuckle-
headed sleuth, or telling the worried hus-
band that he ought to be proud of his
distracted wife, which is very soothing to
the girls in the amphitheatre. Styan is a
harmless incidental millionaire. Louis Kim-
ball is an engaging young crook to whose
countenance and figure 10 years are even
as 10 minutes, and who never breaks the
rules of chivalry. Boyd Irwin is the same
hard, angular policeman as usual, except
that he tries to modify his tone of brutality.
Frank Harvey—a good actor with a monoto-
nous manner- —is the shrewd railway man
who marries his 26-year-old stenographer
without guessing what a simpleton she used
to be, and who sees nothing extraordinary
in her melodramatic agitation until she disr
closes her Past to him. Miss Florence
Rockwell is the new star in the part of an
injured unaccountable innocent. The part
is conventionally theatrical and the actress,
who starts with the disadvantage of looking
older than 19, plays it in a suitable manner.
Margaret Case is a person of limited intel-
ligence. She has no moral courage what-
ever, no candor, no turn for dissimulation —
in short, no “character” to speak of. When
she is alarmed she wears her terror on her
sleeve and when she is found out she
crumples up. The intense feebleness of
heroine Margaret should commend “A House
of Glass” to all self-supporting spinsters
who dream of having romantic careers
thrust upon them.
At Melbourne Princess’s the picturesque
old comedy of “She Stoops to Conquer”' is
still going for nearly as much as it is worth.
The humor has the manner of a very by-
gone age, but the characters remain as inter-
estingly human as though Tony Lumpkin
took his mother for a circuitous drive in a
motor-car and the home of the Hardcastles
had the telephone laid on. The Wilkie pro-
duction of this graceful old comedy includes
all the gags which reverent revivalists have
allowed to enter it. These presumptuous
intrusions are an undoubted success; some
people refuse to consider that a wheeze is
necessarily out of place because Goldsmith
didn’t put it there. Goldsmith is not a
more immortal wag than Shakspeare, any-


dfg
HENKES’
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely ideal tonio.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
fd
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £4,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 -by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
[4
“Jodphur ” Riding Breeches
==NO LEGGINGS REQUIRED=
This new and improved garment is loose round the thighs
like breeches, but fits tight round the leg from the knee
downward. No buttons or laces. Cooler than breeches and
leggings—smarter than riding trousers. Made of Khaki
Cotton Drill, with cross and hip pockets. All seams
strongly sewn.
Ready to wear 17/6.
We.pay postage.
Please state waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPRS & CO. Ltd..
Men’s Out'itters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
V
■
M 7
how, and Heaven knows that huge chunks
of Divine William might be vastly improved
by a flippant sub-editor.
Nothing worse than a violent influx of
temperature ever happens to affect the
crowd at Melbourne Majesty’s these panto,
times. "The House That Jack Built” stands
on a solid foundation, and only a social
earthquake could upset it. The Saturday
matinees are shrieks of joy.
THE PANTO., AT HER MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Hilda Guirer as
Jack.
Ernest Langford as
Farmer Barleycorn.
At Melbourne King’s Allen Dotme O’Shea
maintains his proximity to Rose McMichael,
lesoite Captain Aubert’s endeavors to keep
them apart. Aubert is Allen’s disgraceful
rival, though he never amounts to a menace
in the matrimonial field. But Allen persists
in treating him seriously, and even elimi-
nates the warrior in a spectacular manner
when he wants the sentimental arena all to
himself. The hero, however, is not specially
fierce or incendiary in wooing his lady. He is
more suggestive of glucose than paraffin.
Still his donah seems to prefer his gradual
method, probably because it gives her a
chance to pose as a diffident Miss and bring
her battery of pouts and dimples into play.
At Melbourne Tivoli the departure of
Weems has left The Follies in much the
same state as heretofore. The advt. still
insists on calling the new bill “wonderful,”
but the people who pay the bill have the
right to call it what they like.
The possibilities of yeast in raising inter-
est on a mortgage are disclosed by June
Caprice at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week.
June sells the substance to keep the mort-
gagee from the door in a five-part Fox sob
entitled “Little Miss Happiness.” Two
familiar apparitions, Francis Bushman and
Beverly Bayne, reappear on Hoyt’s screens,
and are again uplifted by their mutual fasci-
nation in a new Metro subject, “Man and
His Soul.” “The Valiants of Virginia,”
screened only at Olympia, features the pro-
pinquity of Arthur Shirley and Kathlyn
Williams in a tangled story of sentiment
covering three or four decades.
Nigel Brock, director of the St. Kilda
(Vic.) Dandies, has invested in a new
dancer, Linda Ockleshaw, who made her
first appearance on Saturday night. Linda
has the hall-mark of a J.C.W. education, and
dances effectively alone or in specialty
duets with the nimble John Campbell. The
little Scotchman, by the \yay, has tempo-
rarily dropped his dragtime recitals for a
Lauderesque vein of humor in Hieland cos-
tume. Also his usual vocal accomplice, Ida
Newton, has acquired a new song anent a
strange actor-adorer with a red, red nose
and a crumpled career. Ida declares that the
mummer’s hug is quite artistic, and The
Bulletin allows that her manner of describ-
ing it is en suite.
“Ramona.” at Melbourne Auditorium, con-
tinues to show how the enlightening influ-
ence of Uncle Sam was spread among the
red and yellow inhabitants of early Cali-
fornia. The film is simply littered with per-
forated Injuns who have fallen under the
protection of the Scar-Spangled Banner.
“Damaged Goods” is safely launched at
Adelaide Royal. Some good brisk influence
was brought to bear in advance, and the
Holy City has decided to accept it as a
moral crusade instead of something offensive.
The opening private performance was heav-
ily patronised by doctors and parsons, and
the booking is good. The Tivoli is having
the briefest of holidays. The Andersonian
melo. co., which came in last winter for
weeks and stayed for months, is to reopen
almost at once. The Majestic’s variety bdl
is strong on the musical side, with Moli-
nari’s tenor; but Rodriguez on the wire is
a pleasant feature, too. Real summer at
last is good for the Dandies, though late
daylight is not. West’s have the delightful
Dorsey expedition films, Wondergraph shows
Marguerite Clark and Hazel Dawn (and
what more could a patron desire?), and the
Empire has a “sweet” story on the advan-
tages of not letting baby die.
W. E. Morrisby, who passed out recently
at Bellerive (Tas.), aged 79, was the son
of one of the Norfolk Island settlers who
were moved to Tasmania over a century
ago. The Morrisby family settled down at.
Sandford after they were transolanted and
multiplied so that in those parts you are
fairly safe in addressing a.stranger as Mor-
risby, unless lie happens to be a Calvert.
An Adelaide woman has been found guilty
of conduct “not that of a lady,” and fined
£5 7s. for it. That was not the legal charge,
but it was how it struck the Bench. The
technical offence was carrying a dog on a
tranjcar and refusing to put it off; and the
unladylike part was telling the conductor
not to be “so damned officious.” A real lady
hardly ever swears in public.
Senator McDougall has been protesting
against the exportation of our surplus crop
of onions to the U.S.A. and Canada. Of
course. The more of other people’s manu-
factures we import and the more of our
own products we retain the more goods we
have in the country— i.e., the richer we
become —obviously (always provided the
wretched foreigners don’t require payment
for their goods).
When Parson Marsden went to Maoriland
in 1814 to Christianise the natives, he took
with him three young men as assistants or
teachers. One was the grandfather of poet
Henry Kendall; another was named King.
The latter is brought to memory by the
announcement that Mrs. Philip King, of
Waiaka, Auckland, has just celebrated her
101st birthday. She arrived in Auckland
in 1840. Her late husband was the infant
son of one of Marsden’s helpers at the time
of the party’s arrival in M.L. in 1814.
“Bluebeard”: The inhabitants of North
Melbourne are living a life of plenty, thanks
to the proximity of the Royal Park Camp.
Owing to the methods of the army commis-
sariat, much prog for the soldiers is wasted.
Loaves of bread and just-perforated tins of
jam and legs of mutton are handed to the
youth of North Melbourne who swarm
round the mess-sheds for the overflow of
food ; and the sight of young Bert or ’Erb
staggering home with a bulging sack is not
uncommon. And yet our watchwords are
supposed to be “Organise! Economise!”
As yet no red-tape has been given to the
kids to tie the mouths of their food sacks
with ; but that may come.
“Silas”: People are questioning whether
woman is built for hard yacker, declaring
that the sex’s war-time effort is a mere
flash in the pan. Well, I can produce a
woman of 38, the mother of a family, who
puts in her eight hours daily wood cutting at
Gembrook (Vic.). She does her house-work
before going on and after knocking off, and
she has for some time past earned Bs. a day.
She fells the stick, crosscuts it, and splits
the logs (seven-foot lengths ) all on her own,
and when questioned recently expressed her
surprise that other women in the district did
not seize the opportunity of getting “easy
money.”
“Playbird” : The State-school kids of Vic-
toria have raised by weekly pennies, concerts
and bazaars no less than £151,000 towards
their own Patriotic Fund. - Besides this,
each district in turn provides food for the
military hospitals, to the value of about £7OO
per month. Every soldier in the hospitals
had a poultry dinner for Christmas, sup-
plied him by the nippers of the Warrnambool
district, and there were enough birds to
give the sick in other hospitals a wishbone.
Some of the youngsters showed amazing-
ingenuity in raising money. One boy, in bis
spare time, made wooden horses and hawked
them from door to door. Another took a con-
tract to clean up the local recreation
ground in his holidays. But the dinkum boy
borrowed a horse and cart and by night dug
up half an acre of potatoes, took them to
market and made a good sale. It was fine
to see the nipper’s face when he handed to
the teacher the money he got. (I’m not
going to tell you who the teacher was.)
It was better still to see the face of the
owner of the spuds when he found out about
it.
Sands’s indispensable Directory of N. S.
Wales makes its 57th appearance in its usual
attractive style. Despite the prohibitive
price of paper, in addition to the thousands
of pages of addresses, the 1917 edition
includes a useful collection of commercial
and general information.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Harrison O.”: Allan Wilkie’s “She
Stoops to Conquer” is marred by puerile
gagging, just as his “School for Scandal”
was. Any possibility of young Marlow’s
nervousness in Kate’s presence being
accepted as credible vanishes when, in
attempting to say something about “hypoc-
risy,” he can only get out “Hip-hip-hip—
hooray.” Another delicate touch of humor
is the misreading of a letter beginning
“Dear Squire” as -“Dear Squirt.” Wilkie,
in a foreword on the programme, attempts
to excuse this drivel, urging that “gagging”
is “quite permissible.” Only an actor would
put forward this impudent plea. Presum-
ably Mr. Wilkie would also consider it “per-
missible” for a scene-painter to add a few
touches to a landscape by Corot, or for
the conductor of a vaudeville orchestra to
enrich “Mhdame Butterfly” with a bar or
two, or, perhaps, a couple of arias which
unfortunately Puccini had not thought of.
“Glen II.” : A movement is on foot to in-
troduce Dennis’s Sentimental Bloke and his
Doreen to film students. If the scheme comes
off Ginger Mick will follow —though to me
at least there appear to be greater pictorial
possibilities in the story of the “gallant
gentleman” of Spadger’s Lane than in that
of Bill and his diner.
“M.P.A.” : Beaumont Smith (B. 11/1/-17)
claims that the light in and around Adelaide
is better than in any other part of the
Commonwealth for filming purposes. I
would like to know the grounds on which
Beau, bases his opinion. The cinemato-
grapher employed by the Union Theatres at
the co.’s dark rooms at St. Kilda (Melb.)
compiles a weekly budget of film news made
up of various topical subjects received from
the principal centres in the Common-
wealth. In Hobart the topicals are
Man's idea of woman, and woman's idea of
man. Any old pantomime.
taken by a man who is admittedly an
amateur, and the negatives he has sent
through to St. Kilda have firmly convinced
the expert that Hobart light is easily
the best. Hobart light is much softer
than the glare of Adelaide, Melbourne and
Sydney, and the fine particles of dust which
trouble an operator even on a calm day
when he is working on an object in the dis-
tance, are not in evidence in the Tassy
films. There is such a thing as too much
light. Take for instance “Melbourne
Fashions,” shown regularly in Pathe’s “Aus-
tralian Gazette” several years ago. Bertel,
the Paths operator, got ample light for the
job in an ordinary photographer’s studio,
and invariably obtained good results. Too
many mistakes have been made in Aus-
tralia by tinkering with artificial light. It’s
very tricky. The lamps installed in a studio
built at St. Kilda were all the wrong type
and no possible good could result from them.
Ilereault, Pathe’s Australian manager who
was killed early in the war filmed the
Argus machinery with the aid of a special
set of electric lamps and obtained a splendid
subject. Herbert Findlay did a similar pic-
ture of the S. M. Herald, with even better
results, because he chalked the wheels and
prominent parts of the machines. But that
sort of. work is most difficult and the films
very uncertain.
“Van Ec-k”: The advent of the Famous
Players-Lasky people into Australia as
film-producers should be the best thing in
the movie line this country has known. These
organisations are two of the few that devote
time to art. Leaving mullock and sensa-
tional dope to picture cos. that spring up
like mushrooms in the night, they have built
up a reputation in America that is second
to none. A.new company, which has taken
over the agency that hitherto released their
films in Sydney, promises to produce pic-
tures not only for Australia but for their
own huge market in U.S.A. and other Eng-
lish-speaking countries. With such an
assured field the co. can spend lavish sums
and still keep a profit. In the way of act-
ing, Australian talent is to get a show, so
we may look out for Mary Pickfords and
Pauline Fredericks.
“Lou Par”: An interesting personality
in the show world who blew into Sydney
a while ago is J. A. Lipman, an Adelaidean
whose meteoric rise has attracted attention
in picture circles. Lipman, who is an actor
of more than fair ability and can do a bit
of writing, left this country a couple of
years ago for America with a pocketful of
hope and a truckload of grit. He returns as
president of one of the biggest film exchanges
in New York. One of his first acts in Syd-
ney was to sell his interests in Famous
Players-Lasky concern and open an ex-
change for the rival Mutual Co.
The first encouraging result of the Taits’
opposition is the formation of a new J.C.W.
Comedy Co. Perhaps the imminent arrival
of a Taits’ Musical Comedy Co. will result
in a development of louder vocal talent
among the J.C.W. opposition. Within the.
memory of Australia’s oldest inhabitants
there never was such a dearth of voices in
light opera as there has been of late.
“ Jeune Premier”: No wonder “The
Woman,” which was recently given a flutter
at the Theatre Royal (Melb.), reminded
playgoers and picturegoers of many another
’Murkan piece. It was produced quite long
enough ago for every Yankee dramatist to
have copied anything that was worth copying
in it. And no dramatist earning his pork
and beans in that quick-lunch country is
any good unless he can copy. “The
Woman” was “tried out” by Dave Belasco
at the New National, Washington, in April,
1911. Cuyler Hastings, by the way, figured
as the Hon. Matthew Standisli in the origi-
nal cast.
“Chudah”: Strunin, of the Yiddish
Dramatic Co. at Melbourne Temperance
Hall, has just celebrated his fifteenth anni-
versary as an actor with the production of
the grand spectacular opera “Bar Kochba,”
by Goldenfarden. Seven ladies, four gents;
mixed chorus of 20; ballet, directed by
Barbaloff, reminiscent of Genee’s Moscow
dancers; principal . danseuse, Madame
Homaz.
.“Rye Dry” : Recent vaudeville booking-
arrangements between Fuller and the
African Theatre Trust gives many chances
to Australian performers to make good out
of their own country. Latest doing well
are Tommy Armstrong and his wife, Mabs
Howarth, and old “Jimmy” Bain and
daughter Verna. Others booked to go are
comedian Claude Dampier and Irene Vere,
his wife.
“L.”: Fate is not always kind to the
comedian. Chris Wren, the smallest fun-
maker J. C. Williamson, Ltd., looked down
upon, left the Firm to join Hugh D. Mcln-
tosh recently. He had only been a few
nights in “The Passing Show” when pop
went his ankle.
“8.J.”: “White-eyed Kaffir” Chirgwin is
now the owner of a pub at Bigbury-on-sea,
England, but makes a return every now and
again to the ’alls. Lately he was at Lon-
don Palladium. Australian Albert Whelan
(Waxman) was on the same bill.
“Screen”: E. J. Carroll’s big film
“Ramona,” showing at Melbourne Audito-
rium, owes its birth to a woman who wouldn’t
be suppressed. Her name was Helen Jack-
son, and years ago she was employed by
the U.S. Government to investigate the
alleged illtreatment of Indians in California.
When her report arrived it was duly
pigeon-holed at Washington. But Helen
wasn’t taking anything like that, and wrote
the result of her inquiries into the novel
“Ramona.” It made the greatest sensation
since “Uncle Tom,” and before the boom was
over million copies had been sold.
“Ancient Prompter”: Australia’s old
friend G. P. Huntley is making fun for
London just now in “Selling a Pup.” It is
a farcical sketch in which “G.P.” is assisted
by Titian-haired Irene Browne. How versa-
tile she is ! She played in Shakspeare and
the “Royal Divorce” in Australia, and since
her return to England she has tried comedy,
musical-comedy and music-hall sketches.
Some enterprising manager will capture her
for revue purposes next, and they’ll both
congratulate themselves.
(Continued on Page 42,)
POINTS OF VIEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She: John, did you note that ballet-girl—
The second dancer from the right ?
He: I did. My optics —what a pearl!
The best thing in the show to-night 1
She : Superior type—that’s very plain ;
With intellect her face is lit.
He: Her face? Oh, when she’s on again,
I’ll take the chance and look at it!
VICTORIA.
E.T.


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured; The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SAYS PHOSPHATE INCREASES
STRENGTH AND ENDURANCE.
Weak, nervous, debilitated men and women
who become exhausted after the slightest
mental or physical exertion, to whom sleep
is denied, and whose drawn, haggard fea-
tures bear mute testimony to their pitiable
condition, can regain health, strength and
endurance in a few weeks by obtaining from
the chemist a supply of 5-gra.in T)itro-phos-
phate tablets, and taking one regularly at
each meal. All the above painful conditions
are due to weak nerves and lack of nervous
energy. Bitro-phosphaie teects the starved,
shrunken nerves, and builds up a reserve of
nervous energy by supplying in the only
assimilable form those phosphoric food
elements which are the life of the nervous
system. The results following its use are
most gratifying. Sleeplessness usually dis-
appears within a week or 10 days, thin
people put on flesh, strength returns to
shrunken muscles, the power of endurance is
doubled, sunken cheeks fill out. the eyes
become bright, and all the old nervous
worries and dreads disappear, and life
becomes what it should be—worth living.
Try it and see.— Apvt.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Tablf d’hote luncheon
a la carte luncheon, from
Table d’hote dinner
Dining-room Open to Non-residents
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
2/6
1/6
3/6
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Note. —According to some, the fez is built like
it is so that the Faithful can have an uninterrupted
view and not miss Mahomet when he calls down for
’em. “The Hats” or “the Hatted” is a term of
contempt or hatred for the infidel in strenuous
times. In peace we are all pretty much alike, but
in war the Turks are perhaps more like us than
any other of our enemies.—lLL.
* * * *
“Lance” : It was in the earlier days of the
war, and that tough old warrior Col. of
the nth Battalion had the greater part of
his unit paraded before him on a charge of
something or other absolutely deplorable
from the army point of view. As each
prisoner passed through the orderly-room he
rapped out the penalty awarded, and added
as the culprit marched off, “You’re another!”
This remark puzzled most of the men exceed-
ingly. until one hard-doer came up for Ins
turn. The old fire-eater rapped out the
penalty as usual and added “You’re an-
other!” Before the orderly-sergeant had
time to roar “Right-turn-quick-march the
prisoner put in very briskly: "Don t uuder-
standchir, sir.” The old chap looked up at
him quickly. “Well, I’m damn sure, he
roared, “that as soon as you get outside
you’ll say, ‘Ain’t ’e a old - ! ant *
I’m getting in first!”
• * * *
“Trooper Bluegum”: There are weird and
wonderful happenings in the war game, but
I guess the record belongs to Lieut. Ilepping-
stone, of the th Australian Camel Regi-
ment. He is, so far as any of us know, the
only soldier to be knocked off his camel by
an aeroplane. We were out in the desert
and “Hippy” was streaking along at a great
bat when a ’plane swooped down. He did
a Tod Sloan act on his camel’s neck, but
couldn’t escape the bird. It sent him flying,
broke his arm and did other frightfulness.
When last seen his camel was doing a
marathon towards Romani and the aero-
plane was turning somersaults.
* * *
“Trallwm” : Immediately upon the procla-
mation of the new summer-time fad our local
Parsons’ Union saw in it a chance to aug-
ment the collection-plate by putting on the
evening service by an hour, thus roping in
the beach-frequenters and the lovers of the
afternoon nap. The reverends jumped at the
idea and made the necessary announcements
of the changed hour. Then came the shock
of their secluded lives! Their congregations
struck —the oldsters deprecatingly, the
younger worshippers with unanimity and
enthusiasm! “Come out at !).30 —and go
straight home?” said the couples. “1 don t
think!” There was never such a furore
since Kikiyu. Most of tin 1 shepherds
climbed down without trying the projected
experiment; one stood from under after one
Sunday; the strong man of the union left
word for the later hour to have a month’s
trial and —skipped for a month’s holiday.
Ali the sinners of the suburb are enjoying
the situation, and the parsons are going
about wearing the expression one might
expect a sheepdog to nurse if a lamb had
suddenly turned and bitten him.
HIS SALVATION.
S HE: “He says he owes his fortune to Art.”
A RTIST: “What! Made a fortune out of
Art!”
SHE: “No, failed so miserably at it that he
went into business.”
“Karee” : The Hun has adopted a handy
close-quarter weapon in the shape of a
double-edged dagger, made to fit on a
Mauser automatic revolver. With it one
gets a very untidy experience. It is also
used without the revolver in saps. Another
sample of Ivultur is a knuckle-duster with a
4in. double-edged dagger-blade sticking
in the middle thereof. Recently it was stick-
ing in my middle, worse luck.
ON THE WEDDING EVE.
GERTIE: “I can’t understand, dear, what you sec in George; I think he has such offen-
sive ways.”
FLO: “Of course, darling—but such defensive means.”
“Sapper” : We were sitting in our hut on
the eve of setting out for France, when the
mail arrived. Bill got one letter, and pre-
sently I heard him remark, “Damned inter-
esting.” The letter bore the address of an
English Military Camp, and was from his
good Australian bush brother. It contained
two words: “Arrived. .Tim.” Bill’s reply
was equally expansive. It read: "Depart-
ing. Bill.”
“II.R.”: Love moves in a hys-
terious way its blunders to per-
form. He was very young when
he attempted suicide because he
suspected her of loving another.
They cut him down and extracted
the bullet and sewed him up, and
the conscience-stricken girl was
kind to him—too kind. However,
he refused to marry her because
he thought, darkly, that the child
might not be his. Whereupon the
infuriated young woman attempted
to shoot him. After such displays
of affectionate devotion on both
sides there was only one thing to
be done: they married. One day
a friend of the husband’s called in,
and waited for him to come home.
When he did come home he vio-
lently accused his wife and friend
of infidelity, and turned them
both into the street. Then he
went out, picked up the first
strumpet he could find and brought
her back. He told his wife, who
was waiting on the steps, that the
girl and he had been friends for
months, and after ordering the
wife away took Yenus inside. The
friend found a lodging for the
wife. The next scene, Sydney
Divorce Court. The Judge con-
sidered the husband’s petition base-
less, and that, anyway, owing to
the way in which he had treated
his wife, he' had no ground for re-
lease ; but he granted the wife’s
petition, and she went away weep-
ing as if she was not at all pleased.
Later, the ex-husband asaulted the
man with whom the ex-wife was
now staying, and walloped her. At
the police court she refused to give
evidence against him, and when he
was fined she paid the amount. Then they
went awav together, and the harassed infant
took a long sigh and wondered where it
would bring up next.
• * * *
“P.X.” : If the expensive-shout competition
hasn’t closed I’ll nominate a recent breaking
of the drought at Auckland. Only one
drink was involved; hut under the law of
Jimmy Woods and Maoriland it cost the
man who said “Fill-’em-up” £7, and the
man who said “I don’t mind if I do” £5, and
the man who said “What’s yours?” £7, and
the man who employed him £25. However,
it might be worse. You can still be sociable
enough to ask Sandy (or even Sandy’s wife)
to share your umbrella when it rains and
not be fined for it.
llow it strikes a lawyer:—
The Bulletin (2S/12/’l6) poked fun at the Law
for judging a man not guilty of false pretence
where he had, in another name, sent a telegram to
himself that money would be in the bank at a cer-
tain date, file distinction about any statement
relating to the future not being false pretence is
good common-sense, not a legal quibble. It hat
was the man who told you the Kaiser would be out
of Berlin by Christmas, or that Faircow couldn’t lose
the Cup? A liar? No; just a false prophet! But
those were obviously mere forecasts, you say. All
right; come a bit nearer home. If you assert that
you dined with Jones last Sunday, when you didn’t,
you are a plain liar, and cannot complain if he
brands you as one. But if you promise to dine
with him next Sunday, and anything—even mere
laziness or unwillingness—keeps you away when the
time comes, you would feel greatly hurt if he
called you that. If every man could be gaoled
whose tailor’s bill had ever stayed unpaid after the
date fixed for settling, or whose promissory note had
ever got overdue, it would be a. bad look-out for
most of us. A promise is a promise, and should
be kept if possible; but it is not a statement of
fact. There may be half a dozen good reasons
for not keeping it, and the consequence of breaking
it is not to be gaol. In refusing to call a broken
one a False Pretence —which is the legal way of
saying a Lie —the Law does its usual best to sho-''
itself the “perfection of commonsense.”
So when a man says “I shall have money
coming to me to-morrow,” and on the
strength of that obtains goods from you, it is
not a false pretence even though he have not
the smallest reason for expecting money to-
morrow. The thing is not commonsense. It
THE WHOLE CASE FOR ALGERNON.
PROSPECTIVE PA-IN-LAW: “Marry my daugh-
ter, sir! Don't you understand that
she has always been accustomed to have
every luxury she wanted?"
A LFY: “Yes, sir! I’m one of the luxuries!”
is hair-splitting. The man does falsely pre-
tend, in such a case, that he has something
which he hasn’t got—to wit, knowledge that
he may reasonably expect money on the fol-
lowing day. He doesn’t take the other down
by his promise, but by his plain lie that he
has something which he doesn’t possess.
ROMANI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Turkish prisoners of war in Egypt express
themselves delighted with their camp. They have
no complaints to make.- I—Cable. 1 — Cable.
We’ve had a scrap with Abdul—’twas friendly,
understand ;
He came out like a gentleman and met us on the
sand,
And we were glad to see him and took him by the
hand.
(’Twas not like when we met him on Anzac’s tragic
heights.
It was a day of Eastern days, a night of Eastern
nights.
The desert seemed reflecting the golden points of
lights.)
We didn’t feel embarrassed, we didn’t feel alarm ;
We joined the Cross and Crescent with a bright star
for a charm—
And then waltzed round the desert, like old pals,
arm in arm.
We had a game of cricket, and a game of football,
too,
And then went to the races just as gentlemen should
do,
And swore about it coming home, all just like me
and you.
(It was not like the Landing on Anzac’s tragic
height.
It was a day of Eastern days, with a golden-starry
night;
The sands, like lakes, reflected those golden points of
light.)
Ilis uniform was ragged (or, rather, it was rags) ;
His marching boots were tennis shoes, and some-
times soogee bags—
The same in which they put their kits, and carried
them like swags.
We took him in to Cairo, we took him to Port Said,
And gave him canned Australian pork, which, we
swore, was sheep’s head,
And beer that we called “sherbet” —or something
else instead.
We shouted shoes and slippers for his desert-blistered
feet;
We stole some gaudy awnings to wrap him from the
heat,
And hats like blanky flower-pots to rig him out
.complete.
We did the Block with Abdul, ’neath Egypt's starry
dome;
We did the Block with Abdul, and we took him for
a roam —•
He saw the things and smelt the things he’d seen
and smelt at home.
And when we found the “sherbet” was going to his
head
To an unbelieving publican his Faithful feet we led.
And we laid him in a hammock and his prayers for
him we said.
It’s sunrise—or it's sunset. Our heads are far from
clear
(It might as well be midday to one that’s lying
here).
But Abdul prays to Mecca, and we pray for a beer.
And Abdul shouts a gallon—all just as if he knew —-
And we drink deep to Abdul, as all good Anzacs do.
For (by the Beard!) old Abdul’s a good Australian
too.
So we go forth —“the Hatted”—to breakfast and a
swim ;
And Abdul squats reflecting, with hat without a
brim,
So’s he can see Mahomet when Mahomet comes for
him.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


wm
Hi
;
■
, &>&{}.
s*±?
Lake Manapouri, New Zealand,
NEW ZEALAND
Why not visit NEW
ZEALAND, the Wonderland
of. the World, and enjoy
A Real Good Holiday
Special Tourist Excursion
Tickets on Railways.
Pamphlets and full informa-
ion supplied free at
New Zealand Government Offices
SYDNEY: 14 MOORE STREET.
MELBOURNE: 59 WILLIAM ST.
The Ideal Summer Drink—
SCHWEPPES
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Made exclusively from Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice.
This Lime Juice comes from the Island of
Montserrat. It is the standard for. and
superior to all other Lime Juice.
Obtainable at all Leading
Storekeepers.
See that you get Schweppes and refuse
CHEAP IMITATIONS.
<s?
feHWffK
tvJF&Mr&x v?, ’****'*’r* ** '***“ ****
’
g
“Seven Bells”: When the 14,000-tcin
oattleship Cornwallis was torpedoed in the
Mediterranean, an old acquaintance of the
aids who held Gallipoli went out for good.
The Cornwallis was-one of the vessels which
covered the landing, dropped ironmongery
on to the Turkish forts, and was a very pre-
sent help at the evacuation. Scarred like
an old-time prizefighter, it often had to go
into dock, and this gave the Auzacs in hos-
pital at Malta a chance to renew their friend-
ship with their old pal. The sailors of the
Majestic and the Triumph (both torpedoed
at the Dardanelles) were wont to link arms
with the Cornwallis’s lads and walk a mile
to the hospital in order to convey delicacies
to their khaki-clad cobbers. Then they would
return to their ships and steam east for
another go at Abdul. How brisk ago it used
to be is illustrated by the fact that one of
the Cornwallis’s guns fired more rounds in
one day than it was supposed to do in its
whole life. The ship was a great old
museum. It had on the quarterdeck the
foundation-stone, with inscription in Arabic,
of the No. 1 fort at Sedd-ul-Bahr, demolished
by the fleet. Another memento was a shell
from Abdul which had dived through a fan-
light into the engine-room, and then, failing
to recognise its chances, had failed to ex-
plode. One of the naval V.C.’s won-at the
Dardanelles was gained by a Cornwallis
middy, who swam ashore with a lifeline and
saved a number of men.
“Doctor Fish”: That the point to con-
sider in classifying men is the make-up of
their stomachs and not the shape of the
head or the size of the brain is the conclu-
sion arrived at by two doctors, Bryant and
Goldthwait, after 500 post-mortems and other
messy operations. They say there are two
types of men, distinguished by the length of
their intestines—the tiger-man, or the car-
nivorous type, and the ox-man, or the herb-
ivorous type. The intestines of. the first run
from .13 to 20 feet, while the bullocky kind
has them 25 feet long or over. The carniv-
orous fellows are active, adventurous and
excitable ; warriors and the livelier kind of
politician belong to that type. The other kind
are more steady-going. The doctors say that
the herbivorous type ought to be vegetarians
or pretty near it, while the carnivorous type
naturally flourish on a meat diet. But these
two fellows don’t explain how a man may
tell, without going to the trouble of a post-
mortem, how long his intestines are, so that
lie may feed correctly.
STRAYED.
HER: “Yes, my doctor says I’ve to go to
the Mountains for my health.”
HIM: “Tut! Tut! Fancy it getting up
there! I thought you lost it down here
in the city.”
There were two heroines in a drama staged
the other day in the Richmond (Vic.) Magis-
trates’ Court. A single girl, charged with
child abandonment, gave it in evidence that
a soldier on active service was the father
of her two children, and that she had been
sheltered by the soldier’s wife. . Having
thus put the soldier’s wife in the heroine
class, she joined it herself by declaring that
she would not take any money if it had to
come out of the wife’s allotment. The
stage-manager then rung down the curtain to
bring the matter under the notice of the
Defence Minister and the State War Coun-
cil, apparently with a view to helping the
girl, whose only helper hitherto had been
the party who in the Fifth Act would be
described as the Wronged Wife.
"Job’s Gully” ; A shabby, elderly building
in Bourke-street, Melbourne, alongside the
old cottage where Redmond Barry used to
live, will be put up for sale in a few days.
There are two legends on the walls, one of
which refers to a regular supply of towels
and toilet paper, and the other, a much
older one, says: “Registered Office of the
Howard Submarine and Torpedo Inventions
Co. Limited.” Howard, I think I remem-
ber, was a Tasmanian inventor who tried
to get the Vic. Government 30 years ago to
take up his undersea steameiv Presumably
he was sent to Throgmorton Gully. London,
where most likely he joined the flocculent
matter constantly banked up against the
walls of the Stock Exchange. But what-
ever happened to him he deserves recogni-
tion as a pioneer of the submarine industry.
“F.N.T.”: Algernon Darge, Melbourne’s
best-known out-of-doors camera man, re-
cently took a bike-and#side-ear trip with a
mate to Wood’s Point and Matlock. Once
the road leaves the Yarra Valley for the
ancient goldfields, it shoots straight up to
the top of a lofty range and stays there, with
breathless, beautiful views at every turning.
When Darge got back he was able to bear
testimony to the earnestness with which the
Victorian backblocker dodges his social re-
sponsibilities, for the trip involved dismem-
bering the outfit dozens of times in order
to get it over or around big timber which
had fallen across the road and been left
there. Practically this main road is a
closed one, though one of the most picturesque
in Victoria; yet within the past few years
the State has spent thousands of pounds on
opening up, mainly for tourist trarnc, new
roads which lead through no finer scenery.
To judge by the appearance of many Vic-
torian roads, their maintenance and repair
are nobody’s business; shire councils consist
of 1.W.W.-ers, and a sort of backblocks
anarchy prevails, shamefully encouraged by
an administration kowtowing to the rural
voter. It all means appalling waste, too;
for tens of thousands are spent in building
expensive tracks up to noble views when
even nobler views could be obtained merely
by shifting a dozen dead trees out of the way.
* * * *
“Hamer : Jones explained to me oue of
the inconveniences of a flat. He said that
the Council objected
when he threw rubbish
oyer the verandah, and
his landlady objected
when he tried to cram
it down the sink. The
premises possessed no
yard, and he was ex-
pected to keep his own
garbage-tin about his
fiat, and he objected to
that. He overcame the
difficulty, he explained,
by wrapping the rub-
bish into neat brown-
paper parcels and leav-
ing them about where
people would find them.
Then the difficulty be-
came theirs. I noticed
that Jones had put a
brown-paper parcel on
the restaurant table, but
after what he had told
me I didn’t think it
necessary to mention
the matter when, we
were leaving. After we
had reached his flat I
laugh ted at the recollec-
tion and said: “I
wonder who’ll get hold
of that • parcel you
left!” “What parcel?”
lie exclaimed. Then:
“Why, great Scot! That
must have been the
whisky!” It was a
terribly dry night, and
Jones cursed me quite
a lot. But how was I to know?
* * * *
“The Old Soldier” to the rescue:—
That Australian (B. 11/1/’l7) whose idea to save
thousands of lives in this war was hung up by the
War Office, is not at all singular in his experience.
Ilis was the common lot of inventors who had rela-
tions with the W.O. But that department is not
altogether to blame, as I found when I was acting in
the early ’6o’s as assistant to the Superintendent of
Experiments at Shoeburyness. The British army
was at that time seeking a rifled field-gun. Arm-
strong had offered a complete system of such artillery,
but there were doubts. The detached vent-pieces
would blow out and the leaden jacketing on the
shells nearly always stripped off and spoiled the aim.
However, at last Armstrong got a bonus of £20,000
and some fine contracts for the supply of his guns.
One battery was sent to China, another (Mercer’s)
to Maoriland. and others to India. The one that
went to China was sent to the rear as soon as it
opened fire, because the flying lead-casings of its
shells were killing the skirmishing infantry in front.
Armstrong had another invention up his sleeve—a
muzzle-loading gun, but Woolwich Arsenal fired it
out quick, and invented a gun for itself. Can you
wonder at it?
* * * •
One of the most tragic documents ever
issued by a scientific body has been pub-
lished by the committee which is inquiring
into the causes of death and invalidity in
the Commonwealth. It deals with the pre-
ventable disease of syphilis—the ghastly
thing which affects not only the sufferer but
his (or her) descendants. Having ascer-
A RESPITE.
W IFEY: “Poor mother has done nothing all
day but sit with her chin resting in her
hand.”
THE BRUTE: “H’m —I didn’t think she had
the sense to give her chin a rest.”
tained by investigations running into thou-
sands of cases that the disease is approxi-
mately as common in Australia as in France,
the committee prepared a table showing,
upon the basis of a schedule adopted in Paris,
what proportion of deaths in the Common-
wealth from certain diseases were attribu-
table to syphilis in 1914. Apart from the
deaths due directly to the scourge it is
declared that the . whole of the deaths, from
general paralysis and locomotor ataxia had a
syphilitic origin; that say one-third (.TOG
out of 2119) of the fatal cases of apoplexy
were traceable to this abomination; one-
third of the cases of softening of the brain,
“paralysis without specified cause,” and
organic heart disease; one-fifth of the cases
of Bright’s disease; and one-tenth of the
cases of meningitis and epilepsy. And
these are only a few of the diseases resulting
from a virus which the State still allows to
be spread through the community. In the
one year 1914 the Commonwealth lost 7189
citizens through the ravages of this disease;
it probably lost twice as many more through
sterility or because of the refusal of persons
suffering from the disease to marry; and it
lost the productive labor of thousands of
men and women unable to work on account
of their sufferings. The war has lasted
less than three years. This disease, which
probably kills as many people every year,
goes on continually.
* * * *
- “Masetto”: Years ago in the Land of Hot
Air, when Dr. Cook put up a big bluff about
his explorations in the Frozen North, Peary
called him an auctioneer, and got the best
of the controversy that followed. Now some
of Peary’s own “discoveries” have been cut
out of the U.S.A. navy maps, and it is
doubted that he “discovered” the Pole. Peary
affirmed that he had proved Greenland to be
an island, but subsequent voyagers have
established that the channel which he named
after himself does not exist. lie said it was
there in 1901, but five years later Erichsen.
a Danish explorer, looked for it in vain, and
four years ago another party found an upland
instead. Lately an expedition sent out by
the American Museum of Natural History
has disproved other allegations of Peary and
demonstrated that one Yank explorer is very
much like another.
“D.M.”: The London College of Music
yearly proves that there are thousands of
young Australians trained and taught to
despise home methods of teaching and
encouraged to strive for outside examinations
and diplomas. The people who train these
pupils are mostly Australians with no other
than an Australian education in music and
all else, and the local representatives of the
London College of Music are Australians
born and bred here. Yet none of them seem
content to be’examined as to efficiency by
Australians of high musical attainments,
and prefer the hall-marks and diplomas of
persons on the other side of the* globe in-
habiting the most unmusical and non-music
loving country in the world. For whatever
else the British may be, their climate for-
bids them to be a musical people naturally.
Here in Australia our air, our environment
and climate breed musicians in myriads. Yet
we implore foreign bodies like the London
College of Music and Trinity College of
Music to confer power upon local music-
teachers to set their exanfination papers in
pianoforte, singing and elocution ! Every
Australian boy and girl ought to be told
that he or she carries a conductor’s baton
in the music knapsack, and every Australian
Uni. ought to be told that it must make pro-
vision for Australian professors of music
to examine Australian musicians in exactly
the same way as they examine “junior” and
“seuioi - ” students in history,* geometry and
the other things taught at. the schools.
“F.8.D.”: People find that, how-
ever successful they are in persuad-
ing themselves to do things an hour
earlier by the old woman’s device of
putting on the clock, they can’t so
easily pull the legs of cows and other
intelligent animals. In the Western
district of Victoria the cows refuse
to stand about the yards to be
milked in the hot afternoon sun
when they ought to be having a
snooze, so the Warrnambool con-
densed milk factory has gone back to
the old time. There is much the
same growl about the change at
other country places, and there’s
likely to be two times soon —a town
time and a country time an hour
behind it. Even the mild churches
■ have declared themselves rebels and
gone back to sun-time in numerous town-
ships.
The Victorian retailer of justice still
knows his job. The other morning the Mel-
bourne City Court Bench (which included
O’Callaghan, ex-police commissioner) fined
a man £2 for resisting arrest. During the
mix-up the prisoner had been “rescued” by
the crowd. Afterwards, when discovered
in another part of the city and re-arrested,
he had kicked the Law in the face. For-
tunately O’Callaghan knows the worth of
a constable’s face; and he fixed £2 as a fair
thing for kicking it. Three days previously,
at Geelong Vest, nine men were prosecuted
for playing the cruel and brutal game of
two-up. In that callous pastime the law-
breakers stand around in a gloating group,
HOBSON’S CHOIGE.
“You don’t mean to say you’d marry that
old beast for his money, would you?”
“It’s the only way of getting it, my dear!”
savagely watching the ringleader toss a pair
of coppers into the air. Bets are made as
to the likelihood of the coppers coming down
head-first. For the practice of this fiendish '
sport the fines imposed were £lO (one), £7
(one) and £3 (seven).


THE MAN WHO DOESN’T LIKE HUSKS.
“I will arise and go to my father and say to him, ‘Father, I have thrown insults at you for many years and called you an old rogue and a liar; but I looked like losing my job out there, so
I’ve come back and will stay if you can offer me a place somewhere near the middle of the stage.’”


THE PROPOSED NATIONAL MINISTRY.
COOK
HUGHES
TUDOR
(together): “Somebody’s going to be pushed out soon, and it’s not me!”


HOW DRUGS DELUDE
DYSPEPTICS.
A MENACE TO HEALTH.
Dyspeptics who take drugs commit a crime
against their health, for drugs do not cure
dyspepsia, neither do they possess the power
to neutralise acid in the stomach, which is
the underlying cause of most forms of diges-
tive and stomach trouble. Drugs may appear
to give relief in some cases of indigestion
and dyspepsia, but that is because they
numb the nerves of the stomach and render
them insensible to pain. Herein lies tin*
chief danger; the symptoms of the trouble
are covered up and hidden, while the cause
of the trouble, that is, the acid in the
stomach —remains as active and as danger-
ous as ever, and may in course of time cause
gastric ulcers to form.
Physicians have demonstrated over and
over again that the stomach cannot regain
strength or the digestive organs recover their
power to function normally unless kept free
from irritant acid, and this can be achieved
with safety and certainty by taking half a
teaspoonful of bisura ted magnesia in a little
water immediately after every meal It can
be relied upon to neutralise acid and prevent
fermentation of the food.
This method is now being employed by
hospitals throughout the country with
marked success, and we are sure the recipe
will prove valuable to many of our readers.
No difficulty should be experienced in obtain-
ing the bisurated magnesia, for it is stocked
by high-class chemists everywhere, but make
sure that you get the bisurated form of mag-
nesia, for the oxides, sulphates and citrates
are quite unsuitable.— Advt.
5
.
as®
32
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS feWHITTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY 6IN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts S Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
During the past week various changes
have been made in the Defence Department,
and returned soldiers who have proved them-
selves in the field have been appointed State
(or, as it is officially called. District) Com-
mandants. This involves the retirement of
militia-officers Ramaciotti and Williams,
who have been for 12 months or so Com-
mandants respectively in N. S. Wales and
Victoria. There is plenty more to be done
in the same direction. For example, when
last heard of, the position of Chief of Staff
was held by Colonel Foster, an elderly Eng-
lish engineer, for some years past a Univer-
sity professor, and one of the world’s autho-
rities, on the siege of Jerusalem. Ramaciotti
and Williams at least know Australia and
the Australians and for very many years
have been connected with the only army
Australia has had. The world’s authority
on the siege of Jerusalem doesn’t and hasn’t.
Is there still no returned Australian soldier,
with experience of the most modern war, who
could possibly be Chief of Staff? If there
is the sooner he is put there, so that he may
get the training for still higher commands,
the better.
THE OBVIOUS THING.
S HE: “What do you think he did when I
told him he must not see any more of
me?"
HE: “Handed you your cloak!”
Killed in France, apparently on the last
day of the old year, Reg Lindsay, younger
brother of Norman and Lionel and Ruby
and Dan. He was the only one of the re-
markable tribe who did not more or less
follow art; and even he could draw, as he
showed in some recent letters from the
Front. But the studio was not for him : he
was a big, sun-tanned, frank Australian
who could only breathe out of doors, and as
a forester in the Victorian Government ser-
vice he seemed to be placed just right. He
was 28, the second-youngest member of the
family. The youngest, Dan, is also in
France.
The first mummer to gain the V.C. in the
present war was Lieut. W. Hartnell, born
in Carlton (Vic.) 30 years ago; and his
widow and daughter are living in the pretty
little rural suburb of Murrumbeeua. He
and Frederick C. Selous, hunter and ex-
plorer, who was killed the other day at
the age of Do, while leading his men in an
attack against the German Ea§t African
stronghold of Bhohebo, were officers of the
same regiment—the 25th Battalion of
Frontiersmen. It was one of the units of
the Royal Fusiliers (City of London Regi-
ment), which carries on its colors honors
going back to 1695. Hartnell was the first
to enter the fort at Port Bukoba, on \ ic-
toria Nyanza, hauling down the Hun flag
with his own hands. On the day of his
HAVING BEEN THERE
MRS. KEEPIMATIT: “I often wonder,
Horace, why so many married men,
enlist."
MR. KEEPIMATIT (to himself): “I don't!"
death —September 3, 1915 —he was being
carried to the rear, wounded, when he
ordered his bearers to set him down so
that he might defend as long as might be his
helpless comrades who were at the mercy
of the advancing foe. These last were blacks
under German officers, and he knew how they
treated wounded prisoners. His effort was
in vain, for every man was slain where he
lay. Hartnell’s body was found surrounded
by seven of the enemy whom he had killed
in his last fight.
Patriarchal Archbishop Dunne, who has
passed out at Brisbane at considerably over
80, was the oldest prelate in Australia. Dr.
Duhig, his successor in the see, is the
youngest archbishop. He is 45, and when
translated from Rockhampton to Brisbane in
1905 was the Benjamin of Roman Catholic
archbishops in the English-speaking world.
Ages of other R.C. archbishops: Kelly (Syd-
ney), born 1850; Carr (Melb.), 1840;
Coadjutor Mannix (Melb.). 1804; Delaney
(Hobart), 1853; Spence (Adelaide), 1800;
Clune (Perth), 1804.
The blood of Grace Darling, who, with
her father’s aid, rescued the survivors of
the Forfarshire wreck in 1838, runs in the
veins of five Carlton lads now doing their
bit. Their dad was born in gaol: for his
father was deputy-governor of the big Lon-
don prison of Pentonville. He was a cousin
of Grace’s. Going to sea as a youngster,
dad was alongside at the time of the Abys-
sinian war, when King Theodore’s wife and
son were brought down from Magdala after
Theodore had suicided on the capture of
his stronghold. Later. Darling married and
settled in Victoria, whence five sons left to
put up this present record : Sergeant S. C.
Darling, 22. wounded at Pozieres; Private
F. Darling, 27, wounded in Gallipoli, now
fighting in France; Private O. G. Darling,
29, ditto; Private E. E. Darling, 34; and
Vet. Sergeant R. S. Darling, both at the
French Front.
The gay Mrs. Cornwallis West
Sent her soldier this urgent request:
“Don’t go to this rude war,
But come to my boudoir—
They call it the Officers’ Rest.”
Gone to his final address, Richard Henry
Hipsley, who was born 81 years ago and
joined the telegraph service in N. S. Wales
59 years back. He was the oldest living-
postal official of Australia. Two years after
joining Ma’s service he became postmaster
at Bathurst, and was here and there until he
was made assistant-manager of telegraphs in
1887. He retired in 1896. When he started
operations the sending of a 10-word tele-
gram took 3s. It now takes several days.
Bert Falkiner, M.H.R., once told a Rus-
sian traveller that the Falkiners shore about
250,000 sheep one season. The incredulous
Russian, whose middle names were Thomas
Adidvmus, promptly related that in Siberia
a pal of his had that many sheep-dogs.
Unable to make his own name famous,
because its use had to be discontinued foi
tactical reasons, a N. S. W ales soldier is
now entitled to Lieutenant in front of his
nom de guerre and D.C.M. after it. This is
(to give him the description applied in a
late casualty list) “R. McGregor, alias
J, Iv. Williams.” He has been severely
wounded for the second time. John Iv.
Williams twice tried to enlist in his own
name and was twice rejected. Then he
took the monniker of Roy McGregor, was
accepted as a private, and as a corporal of
the 3rd Battalion gained the D.C.M. at
Gaba Tepe, where, the ammunition-carriers
having been killed, he brought supplies from
the support trench under heavy fire. On
the strength of that he got a commission.
“Billy Blue”: Re George Uther Hosking,
the water-finder of Manly ( 8.28/12/T6). The
pioneer of the family came out as school-
master in the first year of last century. He
had two sons; the elder. John, was the first
Mayor of Sydney 11842 L The younger,
Peter, father of the water-finder, was the
first medical student to go from Australia to
study and obtain his diploma as a doctor of
medicine. lie left Sydney for that purpose
in 1820, returned in February, 1831, and
started practice in the city.
One of Duntroon’s star pupils, Major Alec
Steele, is in the last list of D.S.O.’s. Now
20 years of age, he left the Military Col-
lege, where he was assistant-instructor in
machine gunnery, as soon as war gave him
the opportunity to put his precepts into
practice. He was attached to the oth (Q.)
Battalion as sergeant-major of the machine-
gun section, and when the whole of that sec-
tion, except himself, was killed or wounded
by Turkish fire at Gaba Tepe, he manned
his gun in such fashion that he got the
D.C.M., a wound and his commission. Ilis
‘ promotion was rapid, and when he was
handed the D.S.Q. lately for gallantry on
the Somme, he had been for some months
a major. He comes from South Aus., but
three States may compete for him. since he
has been in khaki in every one of them.
One of the latest things in Melbourne
statuary is at the terminus of the tramline
leading to the Zoo. The lower part of the
monument is a drinking fountain, inscribed
with the information that Councillor George
llawkins levers erected it as a thanks-offer-
ing to the ward for having again elected
him to the City Council. But the permanent
advt. of Cr. George Hawkins levers doesn’t
end there. Above it is a bust of the man
himself in imperishable marble. Hundreds
of people every week are thus hit in the eye
by the effigy of a conventional city councillor
perched atop of a drinking-fountain. The
thing hurts.
SIR HARRY BARRON, Governor of W.A.
The recent birth of four children at a time
to Mrs. Keogh, of Kensington (Vic.), has
reminded an old-timer of how much better
they did these things in the good old days.
He takes his affidavit that in 1857 three
mothers in Melbourne had a dozen children
between them —one three, one four and the
other five. They petitioned the Assembly to
encourage them by a grant, but John
O’Shanassy was dead against the idea as a
matter of principle. “If the State patronises
this sort of thing.” he observed, “they will
breed like rabbits.” Rut he offered to put
up a £5-note to show his own personal sym-
pathy.
Died at Burwood (N.S.W.), aged 51.
“Joe” Murphy, who for 35 years had filed
affidavits and issued writs in the public office
of the Ma State’s Supreme Court.- Murphy
was one of the first lot of “old boys” pro-
duced by St. Joseph’s College, and was senior
assistant in the dusty old office looking out
over King-street. "What he didn’t know
about Supreme Court procedure no one has
yet discovered.
HER COMPLETE SUCCESS.
LANDLADY: “In making tea there is only
one way to get the good out of it.”
FACETIOUS BOARDER: “You have certainly
discovered it, Mrs. Hashley.”
Gunner Roy I*. Bell, of Croydon Park
(N.S.W.), killed in France lately, aged 22,
was a brilliant youngster who won the cer-
tificates of both the leading accountancy
associations at an earlier age than anyone
else has ever done it.
C. E. Pilcher, K.C., of New South Wales,
left £00,926.
“E.D.” : I see there is some argument as
to who was responsible for the first Aus-
tralian shot in this war. It was fired from
Queenscliff (Vic.), on the German s.s. Pfalz,
which was clearing out in defiance of orders.
The man who gave the order was Captain
Morton Williams, an old Ballarat boy, now
a Major witli the Anzacs.
Adelaide has acquired two good men from
other States —Charles Fenner (of the Bal-
larat School of Mines) as Superintendent
of Technical Education, and Herbert Heaton
(Yorkshireman from Hobart) as director of
the Workers’ Educational movement at the
University. Both men have new billets,
financed by Government. Fenner has been
going round Australia since he left Bal-
larat, picking up hints everywhere. It is
not his fault that he finds S.A.’s biggest
technical school outside the grip of his de-
partment. Langdon Bonython is chairman
of its Board, and it was no doubt his influ-
ence that got it exempted from the scope of
the new Act. This folly badly needs amend-
ing. Meanwhile, Fenner has to stage
“Hamlet” with the part of the Prince of
Denmark left out.
A link with the old .whaling days was
broken last week when George Mosman, late
Government Mining Surveyor at Charters
'rowers, died. He was a son of Archibald
Mosman, who had his trying out pots at
Mosman Bay, in Sydney Harbor.
Canon West, the very muscular Christian
who used to be a rector in Adelaide, is these
days chaplain of the garrison at West
Hartlepool (Eng.). When he went back to
England he p*id the passage-money for a
great barracker for Australia, and about his
greatest joy since he reached London has
been to Avatch the gradual acceptance of
Australian experience and the results of
Australian experiments—in social legislation,
views of life and government of the church.
“Bad Australian’s” send-off: —
Dead on the field of honor, Lieut. Cecil Stuart
Bussell, white Australian. Five years ago, when I
went aboard the Rotorua at AVellington (M.L.) on
my return to S. America, I found my cabin mate a
long, wiry, sunburned young Bananalander. He was
going out “on spec.” He had hardly recovered his
land legs when he started survey work for a rail-
road in the foothills of the Andes, where he picked
up the language and made good with astonishing
rapidity. When Mad Bill cut loose Bussell was
away out in the back country. Forgetting all about
his comfortable job and his rosy prospects, he
saddled his mule and started on the long journey to
the railroad. Unfortunately he met with an acci-
dent on the way, and was rejected by the doctor
appointed to examine local volunteers. He didn’t
waste time worrying about his luck, but made the
remaining 1100 kilometers to Buenos Aires by train,
and when he had recovered from an operation paid
his own passage to England, obtained a commission
in the Artillery, and was sent to France, where he
remained until the end. He was wounded twice, and
had been recommended for promotion only a few
days before he answered the Last Call. Young
Bussell was a grandson of Stuart Russell, one of
Queensland’s best-known pioneers. He was a true
Australian. Just that —and all the words in our
language cannot express greater praise.
THE MANNERS OF MARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The manners of Mary are strange and con-trary,
Her smile it is roguish, her eye it is sly ;
She moves through the world like an exquisite fairy ;
Iler step it is lightsome, her poise it is airy ;
Her manners are, still, an offence to my eye.
Perchance no one misses a surplus of kisses
Expended at random, in manner most free,
On folk undeserving of such tender blisses;
But judge the offence 1 imagine that this is,
Who think they should all be expended on me!
It would not so fret me if she would but let me
Escape from the thraldom in which I now lie ;
But still her lips, pouting, eternally get me,
While, outraged, my Ego, with taunts will upset me:
Her manners are thus an offence to my I.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


\
&
Wm
WLm
■
■
rnmmm
a
j
ill
p
M
The smoke ol the man whose pipe tastes are most particular
—a fine blending of choicest tobaccos —special in its mellow
richness, fragrance and flavour.
Three Strengths: Mild, Medium, Full.
In 2 oz. Airtight Tins.
PATON "7744
THE
OF QUALITY
(LM
400
V 8
LMN
1 1 V-'-'-
• v •**y: i. •&•{&}:»
E very pi P e Quar »nte e(i


Iverall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN,
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS —Deep and Shallow-
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR LIFT for non-flowing- bores and where the water has receded.
S.i Ms factor] lv tested by the Water Conservation Department, Svdnev. Adopted by the Government
for increasing supply at Pera Bore, Bourke. ‘ “ ro
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON -3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE —75 King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
ADAMAX ROOFING IS WATERPROOF and LASTING.
Climatic changes do not affect it because superior quality fibred woollen felt is thoroughly saturated
with pure mineral asphaltuni, then heated, and a surface .deposited on it which makes ADAMAX
ROOFING proof against elements. It contains no tar, fisli-oil or resin, which are all affected
by weather changes. Your ADAMAX ROOFING will not perish or crumble. It is also proof
against sulphuric acid or chemical fumes, and is thus very suitable for Mine Buildings, for either
Roofing- or Floor Covering. ADAMAX ROOFING is cheaper than Galvanised Iron, costs less for
freight, but gives better service. Use it for a warm home in Winter or a cool one in Summer.
Send for Specifications and Prices—NOW'.
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER. ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES. containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank:—
Towards
Repaying
Gross Written Private Nominal
Profits. Off. Depositors. Reserves.
Dee., 1908.. £43,737 £18,737 £20,000 £74 000
June, 1909.. 44,158 19,158 20,000 79 000
Dec., 1909.. 44,432 19,432 20,000 Sl'oOO
•lime, 1910. . 45,620 20,626 20,000 ’ 89^000
Dee., 1910.. 46,174 21.174 20,000 94,000
June, 1911.. 46,275 10,275 30,000 100,000
Dec., 1911.. 47,542 11,542 30,000 106,000
June, 1912.. 48,159 36,159 118,000
Dee., 1912.. 48,179 36,179 130,000
June, 1913.. 45,214 36,214 142,000
Dec., 1913.. 49,915 37,915 154.000
June, 1914.. 50,090 38,090 166,000
Dee., 1914.. 50,104 38,104 178,000
June, 1915.. 51,746 39,746 190.000
Dec., 1915.. 50,536 40,536 200,000
June, 1916.. 51,398 - 39,398 212,000
Dec., 1916.. 51,458 41,458 222,000
A big factor in the policy of this bank is
that no dividend can be paid until a certain
debt to old depositors is wiped out. These
old depositors were given inscribed stock to
represent ,15s. in the £ of their receipts;
the other os, was to be paid out of future
profits, and until it was paid there were to
be no dividends. For a good many years
after this arrangement was made in 1890
t!ie bank was too busy clearing out other
wreckage and scraping up interest on the old
Government and private deposits to pay off
any ot this dead-horse 55.; but of recent
years very good progress has been made, and
tilings have now gone this far:—
Current Repaid Balance
11 years Profits to in
to Appropriated Depositors. Hand.
Dec., 1908. .£lBB,OOO 3s. in £ = £155,818 £32,182
June, 1909.. 20,000 9d. in £ = 38,657 13 525
Dec., 1909.. 20,000 33 525
June, 1910.. 20,000 53’525
Dee., 1910.. 20,000 9d. in £ = 38,642 34*883
June, 1911.. 30,000 64 883
•Dee., 1911.. 30,000 Is. in £ = 51,527 43*356
June, 1912.. 36,159 6d. in £= 25,763 53,752
Dec., 1912.. 36,179 6d. in £= 25,762 64,169
June, 1913.. 36,214 9d. in £= 38,643 61,740
Nov., 1913.. Special Is. in £= 50,900
Dec., 1913.. 37,915 9d. in £= 38,162 61,493
June, 1914.. 38,090 9d. in £ = 38,052 60.931
Dec., 1914.. 38,104 9d. in £= 38,642 60,393
June, 1915.. 39,746 9d. in £= 38,500 61,639
Pec., 1915.. 40,536 9d. in £= 38.756 63,389
June, 1916. . 39,398 9d. in £ = 38,642 64,145
Nov., 1916.. Special Is. in £1 = 50.900 -
Dec., 1916.. 41,458 9d. in £= 43,269 62,334
£711,799 14/6 in £=£751,265 £62,334
The accounts don’t show the ss. in the £
as a liability, and the ninepences when they
a re thrown into the old bog entirely dis-
appear from sight. The foregoing figures
are therefore merely as near as this paper
can get to the facts.
Why 9d. in the £ should have absorbed
£43.269 last half-year while it got away
with only £38,462 on the previous payment
isn’t explainable. Maybe the £43,269 in-
cludes something paid in taxes. Apparently
in order to put the position more accurately
t.he form of the notice with regard to the
next payment on account of the old dead-
horse lias been altered. Formerly “a repay-
ment of [say] 9d. in the £ on the amount
written off the original deposit receipts”
was notified. Now it is given out that there
will be “a bonus of 4d. in the £ on the face
value of the inscribed stock.” Probably
some snag has been sighted in the stream.
It isn’t good to have to admit it, but it is a
fact nevertheless that when one sees (as one
does see half a dozen times a week) a change
in the form of a co.’s accounts, it is generally
safe to suspect that the tax-gatherer is re-
sponsible. And it is mostly the tax-
gatherer’s own fault, because he has been
far too prone to take points.
8o 14s. 6d. in the £ of the old debt to be
paid out of profits has been paid, and there
is another Is. 3d. in hand = 15s. 9cl. alto-
gether. That means three years to finish the
job at the rate of ninepence per half-year.
It may be about that. General-manager
Ralston might possibly shake out more
hidden profits if lie wanted to and thus
greatly expedite the process. But he will
be more likely to decide that there isn’t
much to be gained b-y rushing tilings, and he
will prefer to keep all he lias up his sleeve
in order to make things surer for himself and
the bank in the dog days that are coming.
When dividends do arrive they are pretty
sure to be luscious. The present capital is
only £480.000; and as plainly the bank can
P‘iy 10 n.e. on much more than that, the
share capital will most likely be increased.
The Q.N. is well placed to make money for
shareholders while money is dear. It has
no less than £3,091.639 of interminable in-
scribed stock—a perpetual deposit at 31 p.c.;
and that is remarkably cheap money these
times. All other liabilities amount to
£(.205,153, and no less than £4,471,298 of
the assets are liquid. The modern depositor
is therefore splendidly entrenched.
Union Steamship Co. of New Zealand :
Added to
Sept.. Profit'. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1901 . . £ 129,928 10 p.c. = £60,000 £69,928 £413,923
1905. . 96,764 S „ 48,00t> 48,764 462,657
1906.. 94,906 10 ~ ~ 60,000 34.906 497,593
1907.. 144,324 10 ~ ~ 60.000 84,324 581,917
Transferred to capital, £200,000, leaving 381,917
1908.. 241,334 9 p.c. = 71,667 169,667 551,584
1909.. 98,022 9 „„ 71,667 26,355 577,939
1910.. 104,832 9 „,. 71,667 33,165 611,104
1911.. 116.431 9 „„ 71,667 44,764 655,868
1912.. 109,946 9 .. ~ 71,667 38,279 694,147
Internal reserves disclosed and assets written up.
£ 1,000,000 transferred to capital.
Pref. Ordi- To Re- Re-
Profits. 51 p.c. narv. serves, serves.
1914.. 110,750 55,000 5 p.c. =' 50,000 5,750 485,136
1915.. 182,850 55,000 6 ~ ~ 60,000 67,850 552,986
1016.. 308,870 55,000 10., ~100,000 153,870 706,856
The profit includes additions made to the
insurance reserve. The published accounts
put it this way
Net Profits. Added to Insurance Fund.
1915. . £186,383 £46,467
1916.. 150,174 158j696
llow much of that Insurance Fund is true
profit this paper cannot say. The co. may
possibly be carrying some of its own insur-
ance risks, and in that case the fund is an
accumulation of premiums to cover an unex-
pired contingency. But this also must be
said : the co. has hitherto found it possible,
on reviewing the position, to transfer large
amounts put by against contingencies. In
other words, the co. has generally found its
contingency reserves a stocking into which
it might dip when it thought the shareholders
were extra-hungry. And the insurance fund
is not the only contingency reserve. Three
or four years ago assets were written up—
that is to say, internal reserves were dis-
closed. When the capital was then increased
from a million to two millions, the visible
reserves were reduced by only about £300,000.
Which showed that, at that time, the co.
had about £700,000 of undisclosed profits in
other stockings. There may be a good deal
falling into them now. Twelve months ago
there was a new line among the liabilities—
“ Reserve for liabilities not yet adjusted, in-
cluding provision for allowances on adjust-
ment of contracts, Imperial, Commonwealth
and Dominion taxes, and extra depreciation
on steamers in Government service,
£209,227.” This year that reserve has been
increased to £359.227. I low much of that
money is going to be called for this paper
doesn't know either. It is a contingency
fund, too; and it looks quite certain that it
is a provision for things which the co. can’t
be dead-certain will turn out to be liabilities
at all. On top of that there is the usual
unspecified provision for depreciation; and
the allowance has always been on the gener-
ous side hitherto. If by and bye the co.
finds that it can shake another uncousidered
trifle of a quarter of a million or so out of
the well-worn old stocking The Bulletin
will not be surprised. This war is a terrible
thing—in parts.
Or look at it this way:—
Liabilities.
1914. 1915. 1916.
Debentures .. .. £128,873 £128,873 £128,873
Sundry creditors . . 662,265 647,086 621,294
Reserve for unadjusted
liabilities* depreciation 209,227 359.227
Assets.
Shipping property . . 2,414,507 2,414.855 2,982,205
Freeholds, etc. .. 177,566 1 190,149
Liquid assets .. .. 736,702 1,006,183 741’:397
Apart from the reserve for liabilities not yet
adjusted, etc., the co. at September 80 owed
£2;>.792 less than it did 12 months previ-
ously. while the assets were valued at
£313.078 more; and meantime the pref. cap-
ital has had in dividends 5| p.c. and ordi-
naries 6-J p.c.—Bl p.c. of the latter paid at
the end of last financial year and 3 p.c. six
months ago. But here, again, there are two
® quantities: (1) one doesn’t know by how
much the ship, and other fixed assets have
been written down, and (2) one doesn’t
know how much of the contingent liability
reserve may be called for. Still the evidence
is quite conclusive that the co.. like most
shipowners, has had a time rich enough to
make it bilious.
Farmer and Co.. Ltd., with its office in
London and a softgoods shop in Sydney:—'
, ———Dividends.-- A
July, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
1905 .. £18,411 £12,000 10 p.c. = .£1 5.608 £lB7
1906.. 19,001 12,000 4 „ „ 0,249 939
1907.. 22,223 12,000 7 ~ ~ 10,936 226
1908.. 28,702 12,000 8 ~ „ 12,498 4,430
1909.. 32,706 12,000 8 „ ~ 12.49 S 12 638
1910.. 35,206 12,000 8 ~ ~ 12,498 23 346
1911.. 38.945 12,000 10 „ „ 15,623 34!668
1912.. 43,027 12,000 127,., ~ 19,529 46,166
1913.. 47,223 12,000 121 „ ~ 19,529 61,860
Premiums on new shares. £17,508. . 79 368
1914.. 48.453 12,000 12Jp.c.= 20,134 95.687
1915.. 41,814 12,000 10 ~ „ 20,000 105,501
1910.. 40,16.1 12,000 121,, ~ 25,000 108,662
Down to eight or nine years ago the shares
in this co. were in very few hands, and
reserves were not accumulated. At least, not
visible reserves. Practically all outgoings,
whether on building additions or otherwise,
were paid out of revenue; and that in part
accounted for the comparatively small pro-
fits of some of the earlier years in the table.
Then the co. got a larger list of shareholders,
and new life was put into the management.
Local conditions were also favorable; and
the results have been strikingly good, and
no doubt could have been made to look bet-
ter still. This gives another view of them :
1911. 1914. 1910.
Liabilities ..£108,709 £204,740 £194,445
Freeholds .. 220,529 431,778 429,615
Leaseholds . . 15.780 14,356 14,369
Stock .. .. 169,275 174,.659 221.782
Book debts and
liquid assets .. 97.397 93,519 62,341
Since 1911 £43,770 of new capital has been
got in, bringing the total to £400,000, equally
divided into 0 p.c. pref. and ordinary. In
live years the liabilities and capital (includ-
ing premiums) have thus been increased by
£147,014. Against that the co. now has, on
book value, £203,086 more in premises; and
though book debts and liquid assets have
been reduced by £35,056, the stock is valued
at £52,057 more. On that reckoning there is
in these items an improvement, in round
figures, of £73,000 in five years—a fine per-
formance in view of the solid dividends paid
on ordinary shares. Reckoning the goodwill
(which has now been struck out of the
balance-sheet) as a reserve to support the
pref. capital, then the £200,000 of ordinary
capital is represented by visible assets valued
at £308,662, after paying the final dividend
for last year. And the actual total is pro-
bably a good deal more than that, because,
as said just now, in former years at any
rate large sums spent on the improvement of
the property—probably the finest block in
Sydney—were not added to capital account.
The pref. capital carrying only 6 p / c. has, of
course, been a great help to ordinaries. It
is a very different proposition when a co.
puts half or more of its ordinary capital into
freeholds, and expects to pay 10 p.c. or more
on the lot. There is, however, no reason
why pref. capital shouldn't be got on such
security at 6 p.c.; for the freehold is worth
at least the total of that capital plus all
liabilities. Capital which requires security
of that kind has no right to expect more
than 6 p.c., and there is a lot to be said in
favor of dividing the shares into two classes.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney), which
began in 1905 with ii deficit of £BB2 repre-
senting preliminary expenses:—
, Dividends,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. served serves.
1 906. . £10,758 £lO5O 6p.c.= £4,500 £5,208 £4,326
1907.. 12,891 1050 6 „„ 4,500 7,341 11,607
1908.. 14,573 1050 7 „„ 5,250 8,273 19,940
1909.. 14,490 1050 84 „ „ 6,375 7,065 27,005
1910.. 17,208 1050 84 „ „ 6,375 9,783 36,788
£25,000 transferred to capital.. .. 11,788
Profit on Investment, £45,600 . . . . 57,388
Bonus on ord. shares (374 p.c.), £37,500 19,888
1911.. 18,465 1050 10p.e.= 10,000 7,415 27,303
Bonus on pref. shares, £4377 .. .. 22,926
£20,000 transfered to capital .. .. 2,926
1912.. 21,152 230 10p.c.= 10,000 10,922 13,848
All Shares.
1913.. 18,091 10 p.c. = 12,000 6,091 19,939
1914.. 13,957 10 „ „ 12,000 1,957 21,896
1915.. 15,615 10 ~ „ 12,000 3,615 25,511
1916.. 15,571 10 ~ ~ 12,000 3,571 29,082
It was the “bed and breakfast, other meals
optional” idea which stood to this co. when
it needed a buttress. Six o'clock closing
no doubt affects it a little, but not to any
serious extent, because it never had and
never wanted a bar trade. But above every-
thing the remarkable success of the co. has
been due to highly developed bookkeeping.
Any old sort of person, it is generally sup-
posed, can run a pub. And any old sort of
person can run one sort of pub. More
money has been made with less intelligence
out of beer than out of any other thing
Australia knows. But to sell beer and
make money out of it is one thing and to
run a large restaurant and lodging-house
and make money out of that is quite another
thing. The Metropole had the remarkable
good fortune to be taken in hand by people
who know something about costs and the
itemising of accounts, which is the beginning
of all wisdom in the management of a busi-
ness where waste is liable to occur. That
intelligent management and the fact that the
big pub-boardinghouse stands in a position
from which it can hit the eye of every
arrival by sea are between them responsible
for fine figures in the face of adverse circum-
stances.
The financial position is very easy. This
is how it has moved in four years:—
1912. 1915. 1916.
Assets other than property
and plant .. £21,911 £36,271 £40,559
Less liabilities .. . . 2.063 3,759 4,476
Net liquid assets . . £19,848 £32,5‘12 £36,083
Of course there may be some depreciation of
property and plant not counterbalanced by
outlay during the past terms. But it doesn’t
look like it. All repairs, renewals, improve-
ments and additions have been paid for. and
during the past four years, besides providing
the dividends, the co. has put by £16,235 in
hard cash or its equivalent, and in the past
year £3571 has been similarly socked. The
capital is now £120,000. all in ordinary
shares.
* * * *
Victoria Malay Rubber Plantation
Co., Ltd., office in Melbourne, plantations
at Seremban, Federated Malay States: —
Outlay Total
Divi- on Devel- Development
Sept., Profit. (lends. opment. Account. Deficit.
1910.. £1747 £1,747 £404
1911.. 1432 3,179 689
1912.. 1990 5,175 1003
1913.. 2)95 7,370 1711
1914.. 3485 10,855 2011
Preliminary expenses (net) £1550 ) ...
transferred to development, account j 1 401
1915.. £l6O 3262 15,667 301
1916.. 1130 5 p.c.= £lO5O 3054 18,721 221
The co. commenced planting in 1910 and
finished during the past year. This shows
how the work progressed:—
1910 . . . . . . 36 acres.
1911 175 ~
1912 46 „
1913 69 „
1914 251 ~
1915 21 „
1916 172 „
Total . . 770 acres.
So far only 1910-11-12 trees have been
tapped; but the 1913 planting will come
under the knife during this year. Apropos,
the same old trouble with contract labor is
found in Malaya:—
The damage done to the trees by Chinese tappers
working on contract has led to the substitution of
Javanese coolies employed on day labor. The change
lias lessened the quantity of rubber harvested, but
the cost of collection is lower, and the injury to
the trees has been minimised.
Considering that it tackled a business which
Australia knew nothing about, though there
is a tremendous lot to learn in it, this co.
has had remarkably good luck. It appears
to have got hold of a first-rate patch of rub-
ber country ; and that was a comparatively
rare occurrence. The trouble ahead of it is
the trouble that all employers meet: to get
the labor they want at the price they think
they ought to pay for it. Even now, with
much less than half the estate bearing, and
with many of the trees in the older part
not yet fit for tapping, there is some diffi-
culty. “Coolies are not so plentiful as for-
merly. In particular tappers are scarce and
our output has suffered in consequence.”
And you can’t let a rubber plantation look
after itself, for, apart from weeds, it soon
gets dirty, and the white ant is übiquitous.
However, though these are clouds, the
outlook is bright enough. Last year 31,2381 b.
were harvested : this year 61,4501 b. are ex-
pected, and it is surprising how close these
Malayan estimates have proved, as a rule.
Certainly the market isn’t what it was by a
long way. When the co. first took off its
coat rubber was worth about 4s. 10d., and
a fall below 3s. was not regarded as possible.
Last year the co. averaged a shade under
2s. Old. at Singapore. Including a propor-
tion of Melbourne expenses (apparently the
other part was charged , to development
account) and depreciation of plant, costs
were Is. sd. per 11). If the co. can average
a net profit of 7d. per lb., which seems a fair
figure to assume, the total for the current
year should be about £l7BO, which is equal
to just about 8 p.c. on the very moderate
capital of £22.431. With ordinary luck the
output should be nearly doubled in the fol-
lowing year. The financial position is easy:
on September 30 the co.’s liquid assets
(cash and rubber) were about £lBOO in
excess of liabilities.
Sydney Exchange Co. :
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
■t‘ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1908.. 1261 6 p.c.= 900 361 17,152
June, 1909.. 1161 6„ ~ 900 261 17,413
Dec., 1909.. 1464 6,, „ 900 564 17,977
June, 1910.. 1792 6„ ~ 900 1000 17,869
Dec., 1910.. 1740 6„ „ 900 500 340 18,209
June, 1911.. 1316 6„ „ 900 416 18,625
Dec., 1911.. 1028 6„ „ 900 128 18,753
June, 1912.. 1242 6„ „ 900 250 92 18,845
Dec., 1912.. 1854 6,, „ 900 250 704 19,549
June, 1913.. 602 6,, „ 900 250 19,001
Dec., 1913.. 2047 6„ ~ 900 ' 750 397 19,398
June, 1914.. 1187 6,, „ 900 287 19,685
Unexplained additions to Reserves 3033 22,718
Dec., 1914.. 1592 6 p.c.= 900 300 392 23,110
June, 1915.. 961 6,, ~ 900 61 23,171
Dec.,. 1915.. 1731 6,, „ 900 831 24^002
June, 1916.. 944 6,, ~ 900 150 23,896
Dec., 1916.. 1655 6„ ~ 900 9000 15,651
The directors have lopped off a couple of
branches, one from each side of the balance-
sheet —£9000 is written off the buildings,
and a corresponding amount off reserve
accounts. In these days it doesn’t pay to
magnify your wealth. Some wretched tax-
collector is bound to take you at your word.
The co.’s premises now stand in the books
at £OO.OOO. and other assets on December 31
were £2720. The share capital is £30,000:
and the co. owes £15,000 on debentures and
£1169 otherwise. The income is derived
mainly from rents and subscriptions, and
might shrink a lot before the 6 p.c. div. was
in jeopardy; while the property provides as
good security for the principal as any free-
hold can.


Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
1 hey give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
C^ C ' J Pliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
gfd
w
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourm
The damage to electric-mine equipment by light-
ning, and the consequent repair expenses, delay of
operations, etc., make the question of lightning
protection a matter of serious consideration. Since
the commencement of electric-mine service the
General Electric Company have studied the problem
of protecting mine equipments, with the result that
actual experience proves that G.E. Lightning Arresters
for direct current and alternating current circuits,
do protect. Write us for full particulars, quotations,
etc. Australian General Electric Co., Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney; corner Queen and Little Collins
St., Melbourne. —Aim’.
* * * *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
’Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours,
it is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler witter, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents : Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
* * * #
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete ; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
When considering economy there- can be no satis-
factory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe, the
ideal pressure pipe. Manufactured in all sizes, from
Sin. to 14ft. in diameter. Send for illustrated cata-
logue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited.
Head Office: 57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to
all State Governments. Factories at Lane Cove
River, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Yic. ; Port Adelaide, S.A.
-—-Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? Tf
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Earth-handling and Road-buildino Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney. —Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
tin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vearo’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
Silberberg A Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
ve are Born to
\rtta Be.NEt ax.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Ue 1.0 .A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
ACENTS WANTED,
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited,
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 ®
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 ®
£783,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man. : Kdwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Wonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Shareholders in the Royal Bank of
Queensland met in Brisbane last week and
followed those of the Bank of North Queens-
land in unanimously adopting- the resolutions
authorising amalgamation. The shareholders
desired also that their thanks should be con-
veyed to general-manager Edward Denny
Day “for valuable services rendered during
the past 25 years.” Mr. Day. whose health
is now bad, retires on a pension equivalent
to his salary.
The salesman who knows his job makes the
best of his goods; but the Commonwealth in
issuing its War Loan doesn’t. The loan is
put forward as a4 5 p.c. investment, whereas
it is something far better than that. In the
first place, it is free of income tax; and,
though that is at present worth nothing or
little to the small investor, to the man with
a large income from property it may be
worth anything up to 1 p.c., and perhaps
more. But even to the small investor the
interest is better than 44 p.c. Payments to
the loan may be made in 10 instalments, and
on December 15 of this year £3 15s. p.c. will
be paid to investors. This means that on
each £lOO the investor, great or small, will
get a bonus of £3 10s. 6d. Including that
bonus the average interest actually earned
over the whole period of the loan will be
£4 13s. 7d. p.c. per annum. Taking into
account the concessions and the security, no
investment offered in Australia has been so
attractive; and if patriotism doesn’t com-
mand a very large response, mere business
considerations should.
Dunedin knows as much about gold-dredg-
ing as Sydney does (in fact, Dunedin
started it), and it has always puzzled many
people on this side why Maorilanders over-
looked or neglected the Iliinu group, re-
cently acquired in Sydney and Melbourne.
Here is the defence of a Maorilander:—
I went over the ground about three years ago
with a dredging engineer with the idea of forming
a company to thoroughly reprospect it, and, if
satisfactory, work it on a comprehensive scale. We
had before us our earlier experiences of dredging in
the same locality and a useful -comparison with
ground we were working in Otago and other parts;
and after a superficial inspection and a considerable
amount of information gleaned from various sources,
we decided to turn it down. We were guided in
this decision by the heavy nature of the ground and
its depth over a considerable portion of the whole
area. Over a mile down the flat there is a shaft
sunk a few years ago. This was about 65 feet deep
and to our surprise was dry, and that in face of
the fact that it had rained solidly for 24 hours,
t here .was plenty of water on the surface which was
running into the shaft, and the only conclusion we
could arrive at was that the water found a channel
through the large stones and so percolated down the
Hat to the sea.
Some years ago, and just prior to our visit, an
American expert, acting for a syndicate, had the
lower portion of the flat bored, using our Govern-
ment boring plant. We were shown the prospects
which, in ordinary dredging ground, would be con-
sidered highly satisfactory; but the Americans turned
the proposition clown, too, probably for the reasons
we have already suggested. The old Sandy Point
dredge now being erected on the lower end of the
flat has somewhere about a seven-cubic-feet bucket;
and if you could handle 10 full buckets per minute
for a 120-hour week, the result would be well over
The Bulletin's estimate (B. 14/12/T6) of an acre
of dredging per month. This result may be obtained
in ground of which Mr. Powell has had experience,
such as Adelong Flat, for instance; but he is up
against a different proposition in Rimu Flat. He
will find the contents of many buckets per minute
to be mostly stones and water, with a considerable
waste of time through breakages and wear and tear.
However, the portion of the Flat where the dredge
is being erected is much shallower than two or three
miles above it, and it is possible will give more than
payable results ; but anything approaching the figures
quoted is quite ridiculous. It will require £2OOO
to pay a shilling dividend on the issued capital,
and I am afraid it will take a long time to provide
funds to build another dredge while paying share-
holders interest on their invested capital. Let me
add that I have no doubt Mr. Powell and Sydney
vendors are perfectly honest in their utterances
regarding the value of this ground. So were Mr.
Kershaw and party who put a Kershaw pump and
plant on somewhat similar ground in that neighbor-
hood and promptly lost their capital.
I have no axe to grind; but I have been closely
associated with mining and dredging for over a quar-
ter of a century, and know the great difference be-
tween working heavy stones and free running gravel.
And there is a larger question involved: we could do
with lots of Australian capital to assist in developing
our mining industry, but we know that a few dis-
appointments may prove sufficiently disastrous to
prevent our getting anything for even the most
deserving ventures.
From T. H. Martyn:—
Mild Cat (B. 18/1/’l7), commenting on my
description of properties secured for Malaya Tin
Corporation in Siberia, omits to mention what I
emphasised at the shareholders’ meeting, i.e., that
the reefs were opened only on the surface by costeen-
ing. Shafts are now being sunk, and will tell their
own tale. As regards the gold and platinum pro-
perty, I recommended that it be tested by steam
drill, and gave as a reason for its availability that
there were difficulties to be contended with in its
clay contents. As regards the Russians, they may
be sleeping', but the British are not, and a lot will
be heard of Sibera east of the Urals after the war.
I note your remarks are apparently based on a
report printed elsewhere, which I regret I did not
notice, and hare not in consequence contradicted.
Clearly it needed correction.
Mount Hope, the co. which some years
ago took over the big copper deposit west
of Condobolin (N.S.W.), and then com-
menced to pray for a railway, is ready to
make the mine talk, if the State Govern-
ment will only give it a chance. The origi-
nal survey of the Condobolin-Broken Hill
line ran right through Mount Hope. A
fatuous Minister made a deviation, which
took the line 11 miles away; but a
spur line was promised if the mine war-
ranted it. The deviation has proved to be
an expensive bungle, the Government is
hard put to it to find the money for the
spur line, and presently we shall see the
main unfinished line running to a dead-end
at nowhere. Meanwhile Mount Hope, with-
out its spur, is crying for an opportunity
to furnish the line with traffic. Chief Gov-
ernment Geologist Carne examined the mine
recently, at the instigation of the Govern-
ment, and recommended that the spur be
built speedily. The copper production of
N. S. Wales has fallen away alarmingly;
and the Department sees here a means of
checking the fall. Full of faith, and ex-
pecting that the Government will honor its
promise, the co. is continuing development
work. Audley Smith says the mine con-
tines to open up remarkably well. Mean-
while the enlarged leaching plant and con-
centration plant are ready waiting for the
main line to be completed as far as Mata-
kana siding about the end of this month.
A second issue of debentures just made by
the co. was 50 per cent, over-subscribed.
*** * *
Broken Hill last year exported minerals
valued on the spot at £3,873,632. In
December there were 6392 men and boys
employed, so taking that as the average for
the year the output was £6OO per head. The
field produced 212,397 tons of lead concen-
trates (£2,811,721), averaging over £l3 per
ton, and 206,196 tons of seine concentrates,
valued untreated at £938.008, or less than
£5 per ton, though the value of the contents
was probably five times that much.
Gt. Britain (jSI.S.W.) made a profit of
£2228 last half-year, and as there are only
10.000 shares (of lOs. each) it was able to
hand out four dividends of Is. each
(£2000). The mine produced 83 tons
IScwt. of tin, which realised £96o3—nearly
twice the amount of the capital. And that
is after steadily working for nine years and
paying dividends most of the time —no less
than 15s. a share in 1911.
After dawdling about for two years doing
next to nothing and missing the best metal
markets that ever were, the British Broken
Hill has an idea of making a move.
The Australian management wants shaking
up. It has been in want of it for years.
As the Adelong Greek No. 1 Dredge stuck
so long in 2ld. ground when costs were
over 3d., the profit earned by the No. 2
plant was whittled down to £l5OO for the
last half-year. Such a response isn’t likely
to set the Yarra afire, hut a run of the long-
talked-of sd. returns might help to build up
the flickering flame of old-time enthusiasm
in the Adelong field. At present repairs and
maintenance expenditure just about equal
the cost of dredging. Both the Creek and
the Estates must have learnt by this time
that, if poor ground is to be dodged, close
boring must be the order of the day. What
is the use of butting into 24d. ground if
3d. dirt alone pays? So Gordon Lyon is
setting to work to cut out some of the
unprofitable patches.
* * * *
New Burragorang (N.S.W.) made a work-
ing profit of £2408 out of its streak of ore
last year; but administration exes, ate £325
of that, and income tax £219. A dividend of
10 p.c. ('£lsoo') was paid, and on November
30 the co. had £3450 of liquid' assets and
owed £1476. mostly to the vendors. No such
thing as making an estimate of ore reserves
is possible in a mine of this kind. But there
is no reason to expect an early failure of
supplies. Considering the size of the vein
its persistence is remarkable: this co. is now
sinking below ,the 900 ft. level.
* * * *
At Westonia someone is badly needed to
look after the interests of the smaller cos.-
On one show, at which a Bulletin man
recently made a call, unamalgamated gold
was discernible throughout the launder, and
more than one person known to be of
doubtful character was hanging about the
premises. On another the boss was drunk,
and had, according to the man on the next
lease, been like that for a week. The
manager of a third show was also “para-
lytic,” and snent the day talking fight and
the night firing off a revolver. On a fourth
most of the boss’s time seemed to be taken
up in finding lucrative jobs for relatives;
and on a fifth detectives were watching for
the arrival of some stolen gold which it
was alleged was being brought along to
sweeten up a crushing.
Edna May Junction has taken an option
over Slavin’s lease at Bodallin Soak. The
reef is very wide, and, judging by the last
battery return, values have suddenly in-
creased. Generally the reef has a ' pipey
appearance and isn’t likely to continue satis-
factory. Nevertheless gaudv development,re-
ports may be looked for during the cur-
rency of the option.
Old-timers are poking borak in Perth at
the long, attractive list of returns from
abandoned mines which the Mines Depart-
ment thinks might be given another trial.
In the old days every gold thief had a
mine to which he credited the proceeds of
his thefts. Not much reliance, therefore,
can be placed on figures furnished in regard
to yields from dead mines.
* * -X- *
W. J. liickard is .finding out that it
takes a heap more cash to mine in West-
ralia than in Bendigo. When lie was work-
ing at 1000 ft. at the New Chum Goldfields
at Bendigo, his whole exes, were covered by
what it costs per ton for surface work at
the Empress, Mt. Magnet (W.A.). Of a
total wages bill of 255. 3£d. he pays 12s. Id.
for surface jobs. So, like a wise man, he
is doubling his crushing power. When
Hartrick left the Empress it was a sick
show; but Rickard after 12 months’ work
can write that “there is a far better pro-
spect now than there was six months ago.”
This isn’t very high praise, though, for his
total reserves above 338 ft. are only 2000 tons,
averaging Bdwt. per ton. Putting costs at
255. the margin is 75., which will give enough
to sink the shaft another lift. What Rickard
looks for are fresh lenses of ore north and
south. The inducement north is that off
the old Lady Brassey shaft pig-rooting to
75ft. gave a lot of gold. As lie is down
338 ft. and well on the way towards the
shaft, this bit of prospecting may prove to
be the salvation of the Empress. But the
work is a pure hazard.
* # * *
Black Range Pinnacles (W.A.) cannot
have the quantity of ore above No. 1 level
that was thought, otherwise Plans Irvine and
S. J. Staughton wouldn’t counsel the stop-
page of crushing to get on with shaft-sinking.
They say that the battery could put through
double the 1250 tons now extracted monthly
at no extra cost. If so, why blame the
shortage of skilled mining labor? Isn’t the
real source of all the trouble confessed in
the words, “your visiting directors in con-
sultation with the mine superintendent pro-
pose to remedy the serious depletion of ore
reserves above water level by suggesting,”
etc. To sink is wise, for with this serious
depletion, and with heavy sulphides intrud-
ing, there may be a complex-ore problem
to tackle as well as water and other troubles.
With £6OOO to jingle the policy is sound,
even if the reasons for stopping ore-extrac-
tion seem to be a bit thin.
Edna Deeps on November 30 owed only
£2559. of which £2300 was for plant and
leasehold. Until the £2BlO or so owing
on the debenture issue came in it had only
£577 to play with. That isn’t much to a
mine like the Deeps, but it may carry the
present lift down. Surveyor Macartney's
plan is out. but the Board doesn’t testify
whether he backs up manager Stuckey’s sur-
mise that ore. reserves are 8000 to 12.000
tons from 500 ft. up. Still, Stuckey talks
cautiously on the point; and no wonder, for
with No. 1 winze inclined towards the shaft.
No. 2 only a shallow working and the grade
of any “possible” stone north-east and
south-west of the faces unknown, it would
be folly to make definite estimates. The
ore proved at 480 ft. is 117 ft. long and 20ft.
wide. Give 20ft. of reef overhead to the
Edna boundary and 20ft. to the 500 ft. mark
for the full length of 117 ft.. then 7000 tons
are proved and “probable.” Add another
40ft. to the length of the shoot and the
total swings to. 9000 tons, though the “pro-
bable” factor is increased thereby. Costs
at 255. per ton with the stone graded at
60s. will leave £13,500 profit above 500 ft. to.
set against the debenture debt of £lO.OOO.
Of course, to use manager Stuckey’s phrase,
all this is a “rough guess,” but so is his
assertion that “below the 500 ft. level the
prospects of the mine are good, and a large
quantity of ore will be won of a grade
probably equal to ore above that level.”
Nullagine Co. (W.A.) is again in the
limelight. This time two directors who
visited the show and put in a new manager
report that everything is all right, and that
when the plant, now in course of removal
to a new site, gets going again in a month’s
time, yields will more than confirm sampling
results. The eo. starts with about £3OOO
to the bad, but its admirers reckon that
returns from the. first few months’ sluicing
will liquidate this and bring dividends in
-sight.
Edna May Junction’s option at Marda
(W.A.) has just been seen by .T. McDermott,
who informs the Board that it is a “valu-
able mine,” which “with careful manage-
ment” should soon come to the front as a
gold producer. There may be sufficient rich
ore left to furnish a few erushings, but
Heaven help those who hold on !
Charters Towers is interested in Clark’s
because the deepest level (No. 8) is carrying
lOin. of prill ore and the sink in the under-
lay shaft has got through a diorite bar and
has now shi. of stone showing coarse gold.
The crushing cleaned up in December was
211 tons for £2BlO, but this average of over
£l3 per ton was unusual, for the half-year’s
yield was £5021 from 723 tons—not much
among 90,000 shares.
Bill Clark, Edmund Davies and Bertie Hill
are to run the Mount Oxide Mines in London
till the British Treasury permits Mount
Elliott to hand over 90,000 Elliotts for the
claim. The co. has £9OOO invested in
Treasury bills and an odd amount of £659
to carry on with till that hoped-for day
arrives. Meanwhile Erie Hermann behind
the bars cannot even hear the ripple of the
news that a railway is to go to Mount Oxide,
that the Dobbyn is becoming a mine, and
that Hampden Consols is flourishing like a
bay tree. dorbould’s London talk of his
old co. blooming into a monthly 500-tonner
looks to he a near-future certainty.
A full house heard Lindsay Tullock trill
his swan song in Launceston over the death
of the Primrose Co. Of course he had a
streak of fat luck to get the co. into the
Mt. Bead-Rosebery deal at all. There won't
be any such poetry next month when Bowes
Kelly turns up to lead the wake over the
Hercules. It will be just a few hard, crisp
sentences. That over, then only the Tas-
man . Copper will remain to be given the
happy despatch. The new Mt. Read Co. is
to buy power from the King-river scheme;
and for the necessary money the State Gov-
ernment is looking to the Commonwealth
Bank. Yarns percolate from Launceston
that the crowd looks to get nower for Mt.
Read at a rate far lower than is possible
in connection with the Big Lake scheme.
(“Wild Gat ” continued on page SJp)


Heelings
Cop
en
/
'0 $ ft
SHEERIHG®
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
UMP
Mr
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
Agents:
BzinettSßarkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Streat, S/dnay.
%
m
ii
w
MAKE YOUR OWN COUGH MIXTURE.
A pint of the finest quality remedy for
coughs, colds and throat troubles —equal to
125." worth of ordinary mixtures —may be
made in a few minutes by adding 2s. worth
of Hean’s Essence to water and sweetening.
Sir Rider Haggard, the famous novelist, who
recently visited Australia, wrote, on the eve
of his departure: “You will be interested to
know that I am taking a supply of Ilean's
Essence away with me. Upon-my return to
England I shall be pleased to bring its merits
under the notice of my friends.” Hean’s
Essence is obtainable from all leading chem-
ists and stores. — Advt.
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their h?lf-yearly Cash Sale
All MILLINERY MODELS - 10/6.
Denison House Chambers, 3rd Floor,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IkeCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in Oct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
SINCE 1679 SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, January 22, 1917.
My Dear Akim, —
It was announced that members of the
Actors’ Association would farewell their
president, our only Julius Knight, at a
midnight supper, which sounded interesting.
But, after all, it was over the afternoon
teacups and the buttered bun that they
kissed him quick on the brow and parted. In
spite of a striped blue and-white collar,
Julius retained the gallant Monsieur Beau-
caire air that has been one of his best assets,
and kept a stiff upper lip during the agonis-
ing moments of farewell.
The big, hearty Greig laugh came with
Robert and his plump Beatrice. Miss Eily
Malyon looked cool (which, considering the
altitude of the mercury, she could not have
been) and sweet (which she was) in a
biscuit-colored suit and hat of wallflower
brown tulle. Miss Frances Boss brought
the tall, handsome Roberts girl with the
ambitious Greek name; also an accom-
plished fox-terrier that, at the word of
command, says a paternoster “for our boys
nt the Front.” Some incognito celebrity in
a sports suit of the color of kippered her-
rings stole into the party like a conspirator
and sat rolling his eyes and his chewing-
gum. Whether he dropped in accidentally
or Avas a set-piece one could not say. Others
noticed among the crowd were Judge Back-
house, Frank Harvey, Mr. and Mrs. Kay
Souper, Jeanie Pollock, Walter Bentley,
Hugh Huntly and Mr. Kimball.
Matrimony got an unexpected lift in the
public estimation when on Saturday Wedding
Day won the Challenge Stakes at Rand wick
with the odds at 25 to 1. And members of
the very set you would never expect to back
the holy estate were the ones who gathered
in the shekels. There are some people
Avhom experience cannot teach. But the
handicap that generally follows success may
divorce Wedding Day from the winning
post on Anniversary Afternoon.
The flat and other places Avliere straw
hats and hard-hitters most do congregate
Avere very populous on Saturday, for the
lawns were lovely; but the antiquated tunes
dug up by De Groen’s band from some sar-
cophagus reverberated sadly through empty
stands. Tulle frocks were much worn, and
looked appropriate. Mrs. Fred McMaster
backed her fancy in a symphony of blue
and white, and Mrs. Nivison (Walclia) was
in a lacy robe of white and a black hat with
blue flowers. ‘ Mr. Jack Campbell was pre-
sent, but I didn’t see any of his womenfolk ;
in fact, the names of the multitude I didn’t
see Avould fill a column.
The Metropolitan rifle clubmen who rolled
up to the tune of about 900 on Saturday
afternoon to take a farewell of Brigadier-
General Ramaciotti were certainly a miscel-
laneous lot as far as costume and hirsute
appendages go. But their hearts seem to be
in the right latitude and longitude, and their
bandsmen’s uniform dandy, whatever their
crochets and demi-semi-quavers may be.
Skylark Melba chirps cheerily from Hono-
lulu, which she says is a modern paradise.
All plan to give her a joyous time. The
U.S.A. Regiment stationed at Honolulu
serenaded the Diva and ended their pro-
gramme with “God Save the King” out of
compliment to the Britisher. Little Peggy
Center, Melba’s pupil, is giving a concert,
and when the mail left every seat had been
booked in advance. Melba is hopping off
to San Francisco to meet her old pal Lady
Susan Fitz Clarence, who has lost her hus-
band in the Great Push. Several sacks of
gold have been proffered to the singer to
travel eastwards towards Manila, but “No,
I am on a holiday,” is the answer. Yet she
adds: “I may sing in California if I can.
get time.” She hopes to be able to induce
Lady Fitz Clarence to come and inspect
Coombe Cottage in the autumn. The afore-
said Susan is both a wit and a beauty and
an excellent amateur actress to boot.
Emile de Baillou, general manager of
Messageries Maritimes in Australia, who
died in a Sydney private hospital the other
day, had looked after the interests of the
French shipping firm for 32 years in vari-
ous parts of the world, including Port Said.
Shanghai, Cochin China, Zanzibar and
Noumea. He was president of the Alliance
Franqaise and the French Benevolent Asso-
ciation in Sydney, and as an ardent linguist
who spoke out-of-the-Avay tongues like Hin-
dustani and Arabic, as well as most Euro-
pean languages, he was specially interested!
in the Institute of French .Conversation
which ex-Education Minister Carmichael and
Consul-General Chayet started in Sydney
two years ago. Every Wednesday night de
Baillou was in attendance at the old Girls’
High School in Castlereagh-street to talk
French to the flapper from Mosman or
Strathfield who wanted to practise inquiries
for the inkstand or her grandmother in that
language. A pretty, fair-haired daughter
generally supported him on these occasions.
Three sons are among the poilus helping to
turn the Hun out of France; and one of
them won the French War Cross the other
day.
The strangest court-martial ever held in
Australia sat one day last week. And,
though the papers haven’t said a word about
it, it passed sentence of death, too. It was
out at the new Zoo. A consignment of
monkeys, mostly little fellows, arrived in
Sydney lately, and the Zoo people bought a
lot of them. Cages were not, however,
ready, so they were left in their travelling
boxes. A couple, not liking the look of
things, decided to get back to Central
Africa or some other place where the diet
isn’t so largely peanut, and, biting their
way out, made off towards Clifton. They
were soon posted as absconders, and the
Zoo’s Military Police went out with a small
decoy monkey—an old inhabitant of the
camp. He filled his part so well that, before
they quite realised what had happened, the
two deserters were under arrest and back in
the Zoo. Apparently the three were quite
good friends. But when the Tyrant Man
had turned his back the court-martial was
held —by the prisoners. They didn’t leave
any written record of the proceedings, but
as far as can be made out from the gossip
in the monkey cages the decoy was charged
with having sold himself to the enemy,
and sentenced to death. Anyway, next
morning he was found dead, torn to pieces.
His judges had left nothing to chance, and
had been his executioners, too.
One of 50 nurses who left a while ago
for India and other parts writes in gasps
of astonishment at the unexpected good
time the Army Nurses Club gave them in
Adelaide. “First they took us to the Club,
on North Terrace, and made us quite feel
that it belonged to us; then off they
whisked us to the Grand Central, the finest
thing Adelaide has in hotels, and lunched
us; then a talk and afternoon-tea at the
Club; and between times motor-cars ran
us about, taking us to see friends if we had
any (and wc all felt we had a thousand
before we left), or for a spin through parks
and gardens if we liked that better. But
even that didn’t satisfy the Club. Somehow
it was found that some of us—we had been
whipped together from N. S. Wales and
Queensland and Victoria and Tasmania and
Maoriland —hadn’t deck chairs. ‘Oh, that
won’t do!’ and oil these hospitable people
pelted, and a consignment of chairs went
down to the Harbor with us. Where they
came from I don't know —‘We just scram-
bled them together,’ the superintendent,
Airs. Kelly, said, as though she ought to
apologise for not knowing all along that we
didn’t have chairs. Then they saw us back
to the boat and blushed when we tried to
say thank-you, and insisted on'saying thank-
you to us instead.”
The lied Cross Book depot is gaining
itself a reputation as a matrimonial agency.
Another of its devoted workers, Miss Wat-
ford, has announced her engagement—to II
B. Baldry, of Essex (Eng). The lady will
now exchange paste-brush and brown-paper
for a needle wherewith to furnish the put-
away box. This is the third attack since
the scissors and paste campaign was initi-
ated.
News arrived last mail of the marriage
of Louisa Beveridge, youngest daughter of
late squatter Beveridge, of Dollar Vale,
Junee. The wedding occurred at Port Said,
and chaplain Cecil Granville, D. 5.0., was
the ’groom. He very nearly missed her.
Once before she almost changed her
name, but on the arrival in Sydney of her
English fiance further proceedings were
abandoned. Mrs. Beveridge, who still enjoys
life, was a daughter of Dr. Robertson, of
Ballarat, and Jessie, her sister, is Mrs. Mat
Sawyer, whose best man owns various sta-
tions at Junee and some good horses in other
parts of the State. Mrs. Granville will live
in England until the strife subsides and her
husband gets into mufti again.
Having despatched daughter Nesta to
India with her three companions, Mrs. F.
C. Griffiths is busy packing up her flat at
the T, and G. Buildings. An early flight for
Colombo with the Fog to follow causes the
upheaval. The popular elder Griffiths girl
goes also, and will be missed in war-work
rooms. The War Chest women are dealing
with the lonely soldiers’ correspondence
until the Griffiths girls get back into the
scheme they originated.
Marjorie Brownlow, the pretty youngest
daughter of Captain and Mrs. Brownlow, of
Double Bay, is engaged to Sergeant Evan
James Williams, son of the late Evan James
Williams and Mrs. Guy Boucher of Eliza-
beth Bay.
The wedding of Thirza Phillips, of
Longueville. to Harold Percy Christmas, son
of Mrs. Christmas, of ISieutial Baj, was
quietly celebrated at St. James s Churc o
Tuesday. The church was decorated with
pink and white flowers and the bride with
white Georgette, an exquisite lace train
and a tulle veil. She was given away-by
uncle Colin Ross. Miss Hazel Phillips, look-
in* like a rosebud in a dress and hat ot
shell pink, was the bridesmaid. Afterwards
a reception was held at the Carlton. A
huge floral bell was suspended over the
table, at which the bride and bridegroom sat,
the other decorations being carried out in
pink and white. Mr and Mrs. Chnstmas
are to live in Melbourne.
Captain Bob Harper, D. 5.0., a son of the
old Scotchbyterian College professor, has
just received the right answer to Ins ques-
tion from Sylvia Lance, of Strathtield.
Old ' squatter Christian and his wife are
mourning the death of their youngest daugh-
ter, the wife of General Syd Christian, her
cousin. About two years ago young Mrs.
Christian migrated to Egypt with her sister
Helen, who did some nursing thereabouts.
Lately Miss Christian returned, and her
sister went on to London, to be compara-
tively handy to her husband, who has a
command in France. Mrs. Antill, of the
War Chest, is the eldest daughter of_ the
squatter Christian’s family, and there’s a
son, William, in khaki.
Mrs. Stephens, who died at Darlingliurst
last week, aged a good old SS, was widow
of that William John Stephens, M.A.,
F.G.S., who in 1855 was headmaster of Syd-
ney Grammar School, and stayed there till
in the ’sixties he founded the Eaglesfield
School, where he reigned for 15 years. Then
he was appointed Professor of Geology and
Paleontology, at Sydney University, and
settled comfortably in that chair till he died
in July, 1890. That’s when T. W. E. David
left off being a geological surveyor and
became a professor.
Robina McLeod, who was shot by her
father’s hysterical chauffeur, is indirectly a
life taken by war. Two of her' brothers are
in a fighting-line. They were early enlisted,
and, thinking of them, the girl would get
exasperated at sight of shirkers. Her fre-
quent remonstrance with young Taylor for
not taking a rifle and goimr brought about
her own death. And a broken-hearted
mother and father mourn their loss. Robina
McLeod was one of the strongest workers
for Red Cross and other agencies. She
was, besides, a fine, handsome, athletic girl,
clever and resourceful.
Mrs. Alex. Hay and Miss Alice Burdekiu
are going east —really east —-as far east
as a ship can take them. Another Sydney
society dame who is hoping to inhabit the
same ' comfortable but unmentionable ship
next voyage is Mrs. Vievers, who is putting
in time at Point Piper, air. and Mrs. East-
man have also an eye on a state room.
May Vale Gilfillan has left her sketching
haunts of old Melbourne beauty gardens, and
is transferring to canvas some of the bold
scenery of the South Coast of our State —
rocky points and brawling surf and the
spiring cabbage-tree palms of that fascin-
ating corper.
On Tuesday night, when the- saved-up
daylight had departed, about 50 gilded
guests had a special view of a colored col-
lection of lantern slides, taken chiefly in
Egypt and Japan by the host of the show,
John Donkin, of Wyalong. Daughter Bea-
trice, looking fragile in ivory fripperies,
helped mother in the hostessing. The view
happened at the Blind Institute Hall, and
among the importants were General Finn
and familv ’(in front seats), Archbishop
Wright’s sister, the Consett Stephen pair
and the pleasant Dowling dame, with a
batch of friends. The lantern will shed its
light to help some Red Cross charities later
on.
Mrs. John Fell, who was one of the most
stick-at-it war workers until she received
the modern reward of virtue, a break-down,
is spending the summer at Tliirroul. Her
cottage is built on a cliff so close to the
Pacific that you can keep one eye on the
doings of the mermaids while you eat your
breakfast oats, and it is only a hop, skip
and jump from your verandah bed to the
breakers. Here she entertains many patri-
otic workers, luring them from their funds
and depots and battalions ,to take a course
ef ozone. Among her recent guests were
Mrs. Blaxland, of Longueville, and Mrs.
Irwin Smith, whose splendid boy Murray
has just given up his life in France. Mrs.
Fell’s own boy, John, jun., who on being
rejected for active service on account of
defective eyesight, went to Egypt and
Europe on war-relief work, has just in-
formed his family of his engagement to an
Australian nurse in England.
Mrs. Edgeworth David, who left rather
suddenly with daughter Molly for England,
was Cara Malet, a slender girl, when, many
years ago, she came from England to be
head of the Hurlstone Training College in
Sydney. Big brown eyes were hers, and a
skin of cream and roses; also a dimple.
One of the many admirers that strewed her
school-marm’s path in Sydney owned a
portly form, wore an eyeglass, and now
adorns high halls of council in an older
country than this. Rut she chose the young
geologist instead. Mrs. David had always
an original outlook and never-failing re-
source. She needed it. Once when she went
on a geologising trip with “Twed,” as she
called her Thomas William Edgeworth
David, they put up for the night at a coun-
try pub. The Professor was astounded when
bedtime came to find his lawful wedded
perched like a white bird on top of the bed-
tester among the mosquito drapery. “Cara,
my deali!” he exclaimed in pale Cambridge
accents. “Whatevah does this mean?” It
only meant, the lady replied, that, as every
other part of the room, including the floor
and the bed, had been covered inches deep
with precious fragments of the Pleisto-
cene period, Jurassic junks, pieces of pale-
ozoic deposit, etc., she had concluded that
this one spot had been reserved for her.
Uncle Sam’s first Congresswoman, Miss
Jeanette Rankin, has some association with
Maoriland. After a strenuous battle to get
woman suffrage in Washington, Cali-
fornia and Montana, she lost her moderate
income and her health at the same time.
Ordered a sea trip she borrowed the coin
for the voyage to Maoriland, and worked
there as a seamstress for six months. Re-
turning, she was offered the Republican
nomination in a State that was supposed to
be Democratic, and the old wise birds have
not yet got over the shock she gave them.
A line from a Melbourne girl:—
‘ There will be lamentations in the land when
Commissioner Piddington takes back to the Ma State
his elegant young secretary Newell, whose pale grey
suitings and delicately-tinted socks have caused him
to be generally known as “the Spring Song.” The
young Irishman belongs to the rale ould genthry,
and he is as determined as ever to accumulate
sufficient strength to force the medical barriers, which
arc at present down between him and khaki.
Contrary to expectations, it was not in
the poorest suburbs that the Baby Clinics,
established last year by the N. S. Wales
Government, were best attended. There are
now 10; and Woolloomooloo, which stands
for all the Eastern Suburbs, was attended
during December by 960 patients—an easy
first. But red-tiled North Sydney was third
with 492, while populous and poorer Alexan-
dria was last but one, with 311. In all,
4684 parents were advised, and their infants
treated, during the month. But, although
one of the objects of the clinics was to
advise expectant mothers, only 59 of them
appeared.
The new coat is amongst war-time labor-
saving garments. It's a happy-go-lucky mix-
ture of a coat and a princess robe. The
owner stands into it—that’s the way—
fastens a few buttons, and looks in the
glass. The effect is good enough on the slim.
But the over-plump have mountainous curves
when they try this dress-in-liaste make-
believe. But, then, who seems to care for
the sorrows of the Fat Lady? Except, of
course, the kiddie who pays 2d. extra to see
superfluous flesh at ■Show time.
Dr. Cecil Purser has just pulled through
a serious operation—performed by the con-
quering Alexander MacCormick. the man
the military geniuses set to work on measles
or something of the" sort behind the trenches.
It is quite surprising that a Government
so fond of putting its fingers into other
people’s pies and upsetting, on general prin-
ciples, the public apple-cart, has not yet
interfered with the Great Bridge Menace.
An Act for the closing of Afternoon Bridge
parties and the compulsory inoculation of
the Smart Set with anti-Bridge serum
would bring a beneficial change over the
scene, and let loose for the service of their
country a whole host of hefty folks who
now spend most of their waking hours going
no trumps. For a year or so of the war
there was a more or less decent interlude in
this time-wasting mania; but the dreadful
daylight thing is becoming acute again.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
JEWELLERS.
SOLID SILVER TOILET REQUISITES
In Velvet-lined Morocco Cases.
Plain Solid Silver Hair Brush, and Silver-mounted Comb,
in Case,
£2 18 0
The Company’s
Stock of Toilet
Requisites in
Tortoise-shell,
Silver,. Ivory ami
Ebony is
Unequalled for
Quality, Value
and Design.
Five per cent,
Discount allowed
on ail Cash
Transactions.
Orders by Mail
Receive Careful
and Prompt
Attention.
Solid Silver Toilet Service, in the New Lattice Lined Border,
in Case,
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
Folding Camera Perfection
is achieved in the
REXO CAMERA
Beauty of Design, Optical Efficiency
and Mechanical Perfection are all
combined in the Folding Camera illus-
trated here. Before you make a final
selection, do not fail to see it.' You
will be pleased with its new features
and handsome design. It is made
in two sizes, as under
No. 3.—Takes pictures size x4i in.,
fitted with Rapid Rectilinear Lens,
Actual View Finder, Reinforced
Aluminium Fittings, Automatic
Ilex Shutter Price, £4/12/6
Ditto, with Anastigmat Lens. F 7.7
£5/17/6
No. 3A.—Takes Pictures x in.
(Postcard size), with Anastigmat
Lens, F 7.7 £6/12/6
gdf
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
and Other Metal Workers, can depend on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 59 George Street North.
are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our Traveller will call on you.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
127 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories and Laboratories, Sydney .
Play It—and You Will
Understand
m
«i-«!
Il"'1|!ll IP
N’EVER will you get to the bottom of the phono-
graph question until you have played the
Aeolian-Vocalion.
You are told this and that of the talking machine,
yet your interest is of the mildest. With the. Vocalion
it is different. At first glance you receive the impression
that here is really a nzZD development of the phonograph
id ea. For the Vocalion is beautifully made and finished
as befits a fine musical instrument.
As the first note vibrates smoothly, clearly, your im-
pression strengthens.
The Vocalion is bringing out all the beauty that is in
the record. Vocal tones, instrumental tones, not
phonographic tone —it is sounding.
Then you take the graduola and play the record your-
self .... th e n comes the revelation. You need but to
play it and you will understand why
Nine Out of Ten Say
The AEOLIAN
-VOCALION
Is the Best!
Decide for Yourself —as scores of others do every day. Come in
and play the Vocalion. That’s the decisive te3t. It will be an in-
teresting experience and there’s no obi Ration. Lest you think
Vocalion prices are highers we remind you that conventional models
coot
£l2 10 0 to £75
YOUR PRESENT INSTRUMENT ACCEPTED IN PART
EXCHANGE.
Convenient terms on ail instruments. Vocalion Catalogs on request,
FULL STOCKS OF DISC RECORDS.
Post Us This To-day.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY ,
384 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me Catalogs and Price List of the
Vocation as advertised in “The Bulletin
Name
Address
The Pianola Company
Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide & Brisbane.
WE OPEN ON FRIDAY EVENING.


TWO PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS.
FR79. Silver-plated MILITARY HAIR BRUSHES and
COMB ; perfectly plain ; in Velvet-lined Case. Good-quality
Bristles. Price 25/-
lII If
Jfrwr
FR79.
ii
fifcf-pfa
AMD iii
33-0
M
FRBO.
FRBO. j —The New “MYSTIC” BANKNOTE CASE.
Navy Seal Banknote Case, -}-size 2/-
Also in Green Morocco. Price 37-
Long Grain Morocco, in Blue, Violet or Green, 1-size. Price 2/-
j-size. Price 3/-
Also in better quality in Brown or Black Morocco,
1-size. Price 4/6
Black Moire, 1-size. Price 47-
Velvet Calf, in Tan and Mole. 1-size. Price 57-
Velvet Calf, in Tan and Mole, 1-size. Price 6/9
Pigskin, 1-size. Price 4/6
We pay the carriage.
9
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets ,
g
FASHION’S LATEST CORSET
IS THE
English=Made
NAUTILUS
Non=Rustible Corset
THEY FIT THE FIGURE AND ARE
A CORSET WITH CHARACTER
IF YOUR DRAPER CANNOT SUPPLY YOU
WRITE THE AGENTS
277-9 FLINDERS LANE.
MELBOURNE.
89 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, January 22, 1917.
My Dear Yakbie, —
Lady Munro Ferguson and a friend, with
a bodyguard of Gent. Helps, had an evening
with the llardeastles at the Princess’s last
week. The Fuller management rose nobly to
the occasion by creating an impromptu pen
in the centre of the D.C., and filling the
cavity with emaciated chairs. The official
pathway to the enclosure was indicated by
a strip of carpet suffering from a bilious
attack, and the petty-cash box was further
assaulted for satin programmes and a pink
bouquet. The vice-regal s were politely
tickled by the perversities of Tony Lump-
kin, but forbore to be vulgahly doubled-up
with laughter for fear of wrecking the deli-
cate furniture. A political flavor was given
to the show by the presence of Joe Cook
and Defence Minister Pearce. Joe’s shiny
head heliographed his great expectations
from a seat in the stalls. Pearce, accom-
panied by his melancholy spouse, was in a
perch upstairs.
G.-G. Ferguson, back from galavantiug in
South Aus. with Gov. Galway, has been
staying with the Clarkes at Mount Gam-
bier. The hosts arc quite used to Governors.
They don’t even have to employ an inter-
preter to converse with them. The Clarke
girls are those highly spectacular maidens
who brighten up racecourse scenery with
their frocks. Mamma Clarke, however, never
changes her style of dress and hair setting,
but remains as much like Queen Mary as
possible.
Melba is taking the usual ’busman’s holi-
day. On the voyage to Honolulu she organ-
ised a concert and sold flags and photos, so
energetically that the Red Cross benefited by
over £l5O.
Commodore Gordon Smith will collect his
wife (1) and children (2) and label his lug-
gage for England in a few weeks, and Cap-
tain Musgrave, R.N., will fill his billet on
the Navy Board. When Mrs. Gordon Smith
brought her good looks to Australia she
first settled with them in Geelong, about
four years since; but lately they have been
housed in Malvern. The velvet-eyed lady
has liked us quite well, but still will be
glad of a glimpse of her own folk at Malta.
By way of reproof to those gay sparks in
khaki who have wedded English girls, Cap-
tain Clive Steele, on service in France with
one of the Victorian Engineer com-
panies, has declared that there is no love
like thfe first love by standing up with
attractive Amie Billson, and saying “I will”
in a tone entirely different from that in
which he addresses his men. It was done in
London when the year was six days old.
Amie, who is well known in the Western
District, has a pa and ma who live at
Toorak, and has made herself more than
useful to the soldier boys here and in the
Cold country as a nurse, being an
R.V.T.N.A. member. Clive Steele, who is
the son of Herbert Steele of Collins-street.
went brilliantly through Scotch College and
the University, and turned his engineering
experience to the disadvantage of the Kaiser
in Egypt and afterwards at Pozieres.
Blue-eyed Jean Knox crosses the pond
with her mother next month. Fianc6 Lieut.
Erie Murray is in France, but hoping to
soon bask in smiles if Fate is kind and four
days’ leave forthcoming.
Vera TJmplielby, daughter of the late
Major Tom, is getting ready for a latter-
day quiet wedding. Jack Spiers, of
the Elsternwick and old-time Geelong
McAllister-S'piers family, is the gentleman
who will be happy to receive congratulations.
Mrs. TJmplielby has sent her blessing to her
chick from Fogland.
Maudie Gregory, just back from England,
brings word that Marie Hall, the Bendigo
heiress, is really married. In future she
will be addressed as Mrs. Shepherd. Her
better half spends most of his days in a
trench. Finally, Marie’s trousseau was just
wonderful!
One of the boys writes me :—•
There’s been a row in the camp of the 2nd
Infantry Brigade Depot, and our Brigadier-General
.1. K. Forsyth was the unconscious cause of it.
When the At Home in the Austral Salon was
first proposed the executive committee intended to
make it a very select welcome to the Brigadier-
General, and a V.R. party was asked to put the
finishing touch on the affair. Suddenly the execu-
tive’s little plan was entirely frustrated, and their
Excellencies signified their intention of being other-
wise engaged. And why ? The sub-committee of
the 2nd Infantry Brigade Depot had issued invita-
tions to its own circle of friends. The result, as
you may imagine, was simply chaotic. The Aus-
tral Salon seats accommodate barely 400, and nearer
800 people turned up. There a huge crowd
standing all night, and the atmosphere of the
Salon was thick. Many who should have been
present didn’t come, and dozens who should not
have been there were conspicuous. The company
was decidedly mixed, and oh !so very dowdy. If
Brigadier-General Forsyth was aware of the muddle,
he good-humoredly didn’t give his knowledge an
airing, and appeared to enjoy his audience almost as
much as it enjoyed him.
Mrs. Roy Greene has been sitting tight
at the family estate near Bacchus Marsh
since father-in-law’s death, seeing only a
few intimate pals at week-ends. Her sport-
ing better-half, having cut loose from the
Stock Exchange, is making his first appear-
ance in the character of a country magnate.
Needless to say, he dresses the part with his
usual accuracy. The pair intend travelling
for a year or two when it becomes easier to
dodge submarines and raiders.
We are rejoicing in the usual invasion of
Bananalanders. Hordes of womenkind are
arriving at Queenseliff, l'ortsea and the
mountains. Easily the most ornamental of
the band is the handsome songstress, Mrs.
Gilbert Wilson, now on a visit to solicitor
Bob Whiting and his family at Macedon.
Mrs. Yal. Macdonald and her husband
have gone to join the army of mixed bathers
at Portsea who disport themselves daily on
the yellow sands in the latest 'Continental
water-garments. The little lady in question,
who hailed from Queensland originally, is
a champion swimmer, and her dark-blue
bathing suit is eminently becoming to her
fair hair and dazzling complexion. Among
other leaders of water revels are the Coopers
—daughter Dulcie, fair, blue-eyed, bewitch-
ing, in company with a brunette mother so
paralysingly youthful that really one can’t
help believing secretly that it’s all nonsense
—she must be an elder sister!
From a Billjemima in London: —
Slim and attractive Maggie Niall Burnham is
busy arranging a decorative flat at Hay Hill. Her
husband was damaged in the lletreat from Mons, and
is now doing work at the War Office. Mrs. Burn-
ham is never forgetful of old Australian pals, and
her hospitality has.the savor of her wit.
Old Melbourne citizeness Connie Waugh
has cropped up over the horizon again.
London-dwelling Australians have spied her
at the Carlton with a Russian entourage.
Her clothes are as wonderful as a sunset in
a fit, and she is as modish as ever. Elderly
Australian dowagers have bowed to her
familiar face ; then, discovering their error,
have rushed and pulled themselves together
with cups of tea and buttered toast.
There was wassail at Fasoli’s on a recent
evening, and afterwards on the top of a city
skyscraper, to mark the departure from Mel-
bourne for Sydney of John Shirlow, the
etcher, whose artistic friends in both cities
are beginning to realise that his unobtrusive-
ness is not the best advt. for his handiwork,
and who consider that besides putting the
acid on the copper-plate, some of it might be
applied with advantage to art-patrons’ gold.
Garry Roberts, the jolly Maecenas upon
whom art and its exponents have never
called in vain, was the founder of the feast,
upon which the glittering superstructure
was placed by water-colorist W. J. McNally.
The bashful John, who is going to Sydney
by boat, was presented with a chaste but
useful compagnon de voyage in the shape of
a kiddy’s tin bucket, brilliantly painted and'
lettered, “Wanted on the Voyage.—John
Shirlow, Retcher.” The accomplices in this
atrocity were Frank S. Williamson, poet
and philosopher; Dave Low, cartoonist;
Bob Croll, educationist and pedestrian ; Hugh
McCrae, bushranger; Dave Wright, Man of
Memory ; E. Wilson Dobbs, Compendium of
Information; and others less well-known to
the police.
Unable to take her place in the ranks,
Mrs. Marion May Hughes, a Malvern
woman who wears a practical mind behind
her glasses, has been hanging out an offer to
help her country. Her proposal, made in
all good faith to Lieut. H. V. Mays, the
local recruiting-officer, is that she should
take the place of a male cook, in either a
home or a public institution, so as to release
him for service in the field. She has a
thorough knowledge of cooking, and she will
hand over all her earnings to the dependents
of the man whose place she fills. She is still
waiting for an answer to her suggestion.
The Stewart divorce case is still in a
state of unfinality, and the aged lawyer-
plaintiff, although he won the first round in
the Divorce jurisdiction, is not yet done
with his youngish second wife. Edith Rosa
Stewart refuses to be downed and takes the
verdict to an appeal. She is a fine, com-
manding Juno with the nose of a general.
Miss Ella Walter writes cheerfully from
England. When Europe burst into flames
she was a nurse in Dr. Shields’s hospital,
Park Lane, London, and with most of
the staff crossed to France and helped to
prepare the first Australian Field Hospital
under the more or less useful guidance of
Lady Dudley. When the hospital was
adopted by the Aus. Red Cross Society
Miss Walter was stationed at Boulogne
and remained there for nearly two years.
Returning to England, she became a
nursing sister at Lady Quilter’s beautiful
home in Suffolk, where she had an eye to
the welfare of convalescent officers. Since
then she has been nursing the Marchioness
of Ripon at Coombe Court. "They are all
charming to me,” she writes, "out none of
them have half such a grand manner as
Mrs. George Chirnside.”
A talented family, which includes
“Kodak,” of The Bulletin, and “Bush-
woman,” lost its mother the other day when
Mrs. Mary O'Ferrall died at Brighton. Her
husband, many years dead, was an old
officer of the Education Department.
That very charming lady, Mrs. Clements,
is sorrowing. Her eldest boy, who was ex-
ceedingly handsome and attractive, died at
war last week in France.
In December about £lOO was netted by
Mrs. Scott Sharp, of Berwick, for the Bed
Cross, out of penny-votes and a soldiers’ box
scheme. She has since been inundated with
letters from country Red Crossers saying
that they had seen the news in The Bul-
letin and would she please let them know
how she did it! "We are getting fearfully
down in funds,” they nearly all wail. Mrs.
Sharp thinks The Bulletin should now
help her find a secretary to deal with the
rush, especially as she has her own troubles
in these Mary Aimless days.
Elsa Grice has at last attained her heart’s
desire. She is oil to London to ljyirse the
sick and wounded. Papa is on the commit-
tee of Melbourne Hospital, and daughter
slipped in there under his arm as a novice
as soon as war broke out. She was put
to scrubbing wards and washing unholy
Chinese, and even Freetraders, but she stuck
it and now she goes away with a tally of
good marks.
Last Friday’s great heat tempted two
girls into the water at Sandringham too
soon after lunch. They were botli quickly in
trouble and sank. One, Ivy Higgins, was
rescued and revived, but May Crichton,
15 years old, was drowned. Miss Crichton
was the daughter of Alderman Crichton, that
city father whose fine voice boomed out the
toasts at the memorable Hughes dinner
given by the Mayor after the Waterloo of
October.
From that cousin of ours: —
I've been week-ending at the Government Glialet,
Mount Buffalo, my dear. It’s an A 1 place—but
never again! Amongst the 50 guests there were one
archbishop, Mi’s. Arch and daughter, one bishop,
Mrs. Do. and daughter, one bishop with no female
impedimenta, one rural dean (also unattached), and
one common or garden reverend and his wife and
family. Sunday was a day to remember. We had
service in the morning, and at night (bitterly cold)
all the good people gathered in the lounge and droned
hymns. Some of the unregenerate wished to indulge
in a sinful game of billiards, but were gently told
that the billiard-room was locked. Of course, none
of us pretended that we knew how to play cards.
It was, indeed, the Day of Rust.
The Alexandra Women’s Club lias moved
into its new Collins-street premises—for-
merly Dr. Beaney’s, later Dr. O’Hara’s.
Delightful—there are over 130 windows to
peep out of at the women in the street! The
dining-room has 20, the reception-room 15.
The Club spent £22,000 on its house, part of
the amount going to build a new storey for
the kitchen. Miss Living, the manager and
secretary, is in London, looking round such
clubs as the Lyceum and Imperial; her
locum tennis is Miss Clarence. N.B. —This
is not a cigarette club.
A. J. Connell, of Benalla, is one of the
latest recruits in Red Cross work. He has
departed, at his own expense, on behalf of
Victoria’s Red Cross business abroad. Each
of the States has made a change of repre-
sentatives oversea. Mr. Connell has leased
his sheep-run near Benalla, and has packed
his sisters comfortably on his Corowa home-
stead to await his return.
Somebody has to do it. Lieut. Bland, son
of Major Bland, who pursues Costs on the
South Coast of N. S. Wales, has just gone
back into the trenches after being patched
up for the third time.
Adelaide’s little lot:
Captain d’Erlanger, the Governors stepson, is con-
valescent, and has been taken from the North Adel-
aide Hospital to Marble Hill. His Ex. himself has
gone for a brief spell to Tasmania before setting
the recruiting ball rolling in early February. He
left here with the G.-G., whose hasty visit was
mostly for the purpose of camp inspections. Mean-
while the Stanleys are seeing something of the South-
East under the guidance of the Clarkes. An At Home
in the Mount Gambier Town Hall (how the village
will fizzle over who was and who wasn’t asked!) and
a day’s fishing on the Glenelg River have been two
of the items on their programme. No doubt there
were other items, but let us not be too inquisitive,
my dear. The visit ended on Thursday. Speaking
of the South-East reminds me that the district is
losing the T. O. Ellises, of Benara, who have de-
parted for Invercargill (M.L.), where Sarah Gamp
and Betsy Prig have to lock the door and pull down
the blinds when they’re so dispoged.
The British Red Cross Unit, of which Dr. A. P. E.
O’Leary, of our Glenelg, is in charge, is now in
Roumania. It is the gift of the miners of the Old
Country to our latest ally, and is to be known as
the Prince Mirces Hospital, in memory of the baby
Roumanian prince who died. Mrs. O’Leary, w T ho was
one of the Bakewells, has been in England saying
good-bye to her husband.
The agitated person who broke into the news-sheets
to say that he had found a snake with wings has
been soothed by the Museum Ornithologist, who
announces that it wasn’t a snake, but a scale-foot
lizard; ■ and that they weren't wings, but rudi-
mentary hind leg>. This sort of thing didn’t happen
here prior to six-o'clock closing.
Another of our lawyers has gone into camp. He
is J. S. Murray, who went from St. Peter’s College
to Cambridge and was admitted to the Inner Temple,
London, in 1909. One of his partners, Lieut. C. I?.
Cudmore, has been for some time in France with
an English regiment.
Having gazetted Mrs. Young to be one of the
Board of Governors of the Public Library and
Museum, the Government announces that it intends
to make similar appointments whenever opportunity
occurs. The Botanic Gardens and Destitute Asylum
Boards already have women firmly seated upon them,
and we have also two more women J's.P. —Miss Amy
Tomkinson and Miss 11. A. Stirling, the latter a
daughter of Professor Stirling.
A piece of the boat which Sturt built when he was
camped on the Stony Desert, about 150 miles north
of IVileannia, so that he might explore “the vast
inland sea,” which he understood lay before him, has
come into Dr. Angas Johnson’s hands. It was sent
from Brisbane to Arthur Searcy, who gave it to the
doctor. The more you hear about that expedition
the more you wonder why it was let out without its
mother.
The Red Cross Tea Garden on Yerco Buildings’ roof
handed in a £5O cheque, which represented its
December profits. As the place is open only on
Wednesdays that’s not bad, is it?
The Ilamilton-Matheson wedding occurred at Glen-
clg last week. He is a Victorian who was locum
tenens for Dr. Alfred- Stokes while the latter was
at the Front, and she is a local girl.
Captain Fletcher, who arrived back in London
from his A.D.C. job here just as war broke out, and
had the bad luck to be interned in Holland after
the Antwerp hash, has been in England on brief
furlough from the internment camp.
The last shuffle of the military cards is to bring
us Brig.-Gen. Forsyth in Brig.-Gen. Irving’s place,
and is to take our present Commandant to Queens-
land. This makes the fourth change of commandants
we’ve had since war broke out.
Lionel Robinson has bought from the
Duke of Westminster Shadowland, which
dweller in silver-fitted stablehalls is to be
given an opportunity to clean up this coun-
try. Shadowland cost Robinson £l3OO, and
Lavius, also from the same stable, cost him
1500 guineas. You’ll only be interested in
these things because they make it look as if
the Australian, is coming to the conclusion
that there is no place like home after his
long sojourn in England in a palace bought
from a seedy aristocrat.
Admiral Creswell’s wife, a staunch worker,
lias remained in town through the dog days
to attend to her x various patriotic interests
and does not contemplate the usual jaunt
to the seaside or the hills. She has an
anxious look in her eyes, for three of her
boys are in the thick of the tussle.
Strinberg, Ibsen and even Olipliant and
Esson evidently don’t pay, for the Repertory
Club is busy organising a show to square
the losses of leader Gregan McMahon. Allio
Robson and Ethel Leon are understood to be
two of the damsels who will be the stars of
the occasion.
The handsome Canon Hughes, of St.
Peter’s, is hobbling about on crutches (there
is six-foot-four of him and a corresponding
girth to propel) amid the condolences of
his adoring flock. A heavy pedestal fell on
his foot and crushed it badly. Then it was
hospital for him and a surfeit of jellies and
home-made cakes.
People possessed of many household gods
are not always to be envied, especially when
they want to go holidaying. Their motor-car
they can have with them always, but their
other belongings haunt their pleasure hours.
A couple of these unfortunate folk left the
house in charge of cook. She was con-
sidered a Peach and a Treasure; so the boss
and the missus started out on a motor
voyage with a light heart. The missus locked
up her silver, put her jewels in a safe deposit
and gave cook her blessing and the run of
the house and larder. Some little time
later, when the holiday-makers were in the
Western District, there came from a neigh-
bor a telegram hinting that they
should return home. Hurrying back, of
course they were delighted to find the
house in a state of chaos. Cook
had decamped without removing the evi-
dences of her glorious house-parties. The
neighbors said that motor-loads of joy-
riders had tooted in to the park o’ nights
and filled the hours with revelry. The
missus’s best evening-dress had been worn,
her nighties were out of their lavender and
showed signs of alien use, and the larder
was despoiled of stores. Sixty dozen eggs
that had been preserved by the careful
housewife against winter were gone, none
knew whither. The precious table-linen was
too awful for words, and the best crockery
smashed. A battalion of repairers and
renovators is now working overtime on the
wreckage.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


■gffi,
m
m
mm
m.
A
W/i
h
&
m
#§M
y.
Vj
■--
m
msmm
■
KSI
H
v
■
-•••■ •
■
■::
M. Venlzelos
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisly.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of M. Venizelos is one of a new series of drawings specially executed
for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely free
from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set will be sent to any address within the Commonwealth on receipt of
I/- postal-note, or J 2 penny stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write
and secure a set immediately to .
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
»T 56
H -
a w
Scotch 7*'hc^‘
i 'Qu.vuire
A
»«
n
■
Y//Sfrrrsf,
vu
m
m
m
mm.
mm
m
'VX*.
m
mm
mm
m
m
mm
m
?
WA
m.
% ,*St
%
f %
/ %
tT~~*
%j , I
»•— J*
AJ
i %.
#r% I ✓""""""%
°ll i
'«!


mm
»
LM
a
Shaved in time
' £6r breakfast!
Shaving Satisfaction
begins before breakfast and lasts all day.
When you have a blade that shaves, you
can save time —and save your face.
The Razor is just right—weight, balance and shaving angle ;
smooth guard—doesn’t comb the beard—it shaves clean.
Penn Blades are made to shave. Each blade is separately
tempered, ground, honed and tested.
ENN £AFETY
with Blades
that Shave
Post free
I/O
Complete.
All Storekeepers, or
direct from
A. 0. PENN, Inc.
420 George St., SYDNEY.
Money back without
question if not satisfied.
A Signal Success
Ut
wmmY
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Bushman”: “Pick” (B. 7/12/’l6) wants
to know “in what hitherto unheard-of region of
Australia” I have seen forests destroyed by native
bears. Well, the koala was to be found once in
immense numbers along the coast from Shoalhaven
(N.S.W.) westerly to within a few miles of Mel-
bourne. Around the shores of Corner Inlet and Wil-
son Promontory he was specially numerous. Near
the Promontory there is an isolated area of swamp
gum forest about four square miles in extent, half
of which Norman Lindsay’s cobber killed over 20
years ago. Then the hunters arrived and wiped the
little hungry chap out. To-day the timber can be
seen one-half dead, the other half as green as ever.
Bears were so plentiful in this forest that one hour’s
shooting would keep a man busy skinning during the
rest of the day. ,1 could show “Pick” many other
areas of forest killed by the bears if he likes to see
desolation.
» * » *
“E.S.S.”: Most people anti most birds
have a down on the poor cuckoo, because it won’t
hatch its own eggs, but imposes that task on others.
But every time I visit my grape-vines I wish the
bird was more commonly around, for it is the only
friend that will eat the hairy or vine-moth cater-
pillar, a most destructive pest to the viticulturist.
It persists in surviving and ravaging in spite of
everything when its natural enemy is absent. Every
grower should remember that. This would be a hap-
pier country for everybody if only everj'body under-
stood birds.
* * * »
A consignment of relics of the moa, Maori-
land’s extinct giant wingless bird, came to hand in
the Tuturau hills, in Southland, recently. They
lay sft. below the surface in a bed of peat and
were of at least three species. Bones of 15 birds
were closely packed together in a space of about
four square yards, and are reckoned to be the accu-
mulation of centuries —probably carried down from
tire hillside by flood water. In his day whoever
wanted to pat the moa on the head had to climb
up 12 or 14 feet to do it.
“Bad Australian”: Any of you ever tried
carpet-snake lining for your belt? It ranks amongst
the best. The first time I sampled it was with my
old pal Garry, a fine specimen of Upper Burnett
(Q.) binghi, who put up about the best record of
his time in the district as a sprinter and long-
distance jumper. (Incidentally he put up a record
for gin'-slaughter and side-stepping the conse-
quences.) I was bushed and wandering around like_
the Prodigal Son after a miserable night on the
Baramba Creek when I struck Garry’s hospitable
camp, and, being almost famished, didn’t ask any
questions, but got busy on what I knew to be a
fine fat whampoo a la binghi and what I took to
be some kind of fish a la ditto. After I had got
through and Garry had taken a liberal cut at my
plug of Two Seas I asked him to give the fish a
name. The noble savage upended a grass dillybag
which hung on the ridge pole of his gunyah and
out rolled several slices of the “fish.” I didn’t
have to look twice at the sausage-wrap to identify
the animal. Afterwards I frequently ate the same
kind of “fish,” knowing where it was caught, and
in time became as partial to it as I have to the
S. American iguana and the frog and the snail
and the octupus-wing and such-like local delicacies.
The iguana of South American epicures is nothing
like the yellow-and-black. half-bred ’gator which
I used to chase around a gum-tree in my youthful
days in Australia in the hope of blowing him to
kingdom come with an old gun. The South Ameri-
can reptile is just a plain “sleepin’ lizard” with a
Yes-No equator and an unconquerable desire for a
place in the sun. When he is carefully smoked he
eats something like mutton-bird.
“Simon”: Re “A. J. Grey” (B.
28/12/’l6). There is nothing remarkable about non-
drinking birds. Tom Frost, publican, of Waterloo,
Sydney, for years has been a parrot-fancier, and in
giving pets away to his friends he always advises
that they be not given drink. “Spoils their intelli-
gence,” he told me, and he ought to know. It also
brings on diarrhoea.
“Silas Snell”: Has any Aboriginally
naturalist absolute proof in support of the popular
belief that the dappled cucumber swallows her
young? Until such proof is actually forthcoming I
for one must decline to give credence to the story.
So strong is my conviction that this superstition is
the outcome of faulty observation, combined with
bad judgment, that the bush nature-student must
produce a dappled cucumber in the very act before I
can be induced to believe that she really swallows
her young at the approach of an enemy. I have
kept dappled cucumbers for years, and have had
them under close observation for months at a time,
setting a watch upon them when more urgent duties
called me, and never have I seen, never has a faithful
recorder reported, one action on the part of the
cucumber that could be construed into an attempt on
her part to swallow her young, even though excited
thereto by every conceivable device. When shown
a red cow or a portrait of a dry nurse, the dappled
cucumber’s only protective device is the one familiar
to all naturalists —she assumes the exact appearance
of a dormant vegetable.
* *
“Spraggs”: Big teams? Peter Hynes
pulled 12 tons of wool from the Yanko with 35
horses'; bait coming on boggy ground he was forced
uo hook Oiek Maxwell’s team of 35 on to his. Even
then it was no picnic.
SHE KNEW HIM.
HIS TYPIST : “Well, then, I’ll consent to marry you; but you must let me select the
typist who will take my place.”
NATURE'S DEMANDS.
THE ATTENDANT : “We’ll just go a little further, sir, because if you don’t get enough
exercise your food won’t do you so much good!”
“Barcoo”: When tales come up of stock
sustaining life- for long periods without water the
record of these 10 wethers will take some beating.
It was on Isis Downs (Q.) during the big drought.
The jumbucks escaped into a back mountain rock-
strewn paddock that was without surface water of
any kind. Five years afterwards came a deluge.
The Barcoo escaped over its banks, and sheep were
turned into the mountain paddock to save them
from drowning. When they were mustered for shear-
ing 10 outlaws came in with the flock, all with
full, sound merino fleeces, the staple measuring 22
inches. ,
“Warrego Bill” : “Bunkie” (B. 28/12/’l6)
seems to be surprised that anyone should be bitten
by a ’possum. Let me tell him as an expert that a
’possum is quite capable of looking after himself in
a scrap. I have bitter memories of a day in my
youth when I dug a ring-tail out of a hollow log
in Central Queensland. I carried him by the tail
and he promptly turned round and bit me through
the thumb. I can still show the scars. The only
more, painful bite I remember was from a full-
grown horse who objected to the removal of his
winkers.
* * * *
“D.F.” : The fish that worried “Wart” (B.
4/1 /’i 7) was the freshwater flathead or pike, called
by scientists Aphritis. It’s a freshwater fish all right,
though it is also found in the brackish water of
estuaries. It looks for all the world like a miniature
flathead, ' and its habits are much the same; it lies
on the bottom waiting for something to turn up, and
where the bottom is sandy I have seen them bury
themselves in the sand with just their snout and
eyes showing. You can catch them with a worm, but
you have to steer the bait pretty close to them or
they won’t bother about it. Some of the pig fellows
run wefi up towards three-quarters of a pound in
weight. The fish is pretty well distributed in the
Speck (I never saw any on the West Coast) and has
relations in Vic. and also in South America.
* * * *
“Tiaki”: “Try Fluke’s” yarn (B.
14/12/T6) is not the only one told about the Maori’s
ignorance of gunpowder. About a ' century ago a
vessel name ashore about the region of the Kidnappers
and the crew was promptly added to the menu of
good things which a benign deity provides for God-
fearing anthropophagians. A barrel of gunpowder
was among the spoil, and Kaihomo had a plot of
waerenga cultivated and sown with the purapura
korau (turnip seed), promising great vegetable feasts
to his people. The stuff refused to sprout, however,
so Kaihomo put on a tohunga at overtime rates to
do a little incanting. Result: No rain, no turnips
and no tohunga. After the medicine-man’s obsequies
it rained like Sheol. Still no turnips. Then a
Ngapuhi man wandered into the picture. He ex-
plained the nature of things and was bribed with
women and other ornaments to bring a gun from the
top end of the colony. At his first shot Kaihomo
was laid out by the “kick” and threatened to make
the Ngapuhi’s life policy mature, but when he saw
the bullet embedded in a rata tree his delight knew
no bounds. He immediately established a sort of
Belgian raid, and the neighboring tribes furnished
the long-pig diet for months. But Kaihomo stored
his. paura in an old leaky whata and it got wet. A
trifle like this did not stop the ancient savage. He
procured a frying-pan and dried it over a fire. One
day, however, he overdried it and Mr. Kaihomo’s
soul went to Heaven in a dense cloud of smoke.
(Continued on page 24J
AT SWEETBRIARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world was wide and very young
And thronged with youth’s desires
At Sweetbriars, when the springtide hung
Red berries on the briars.
The green bush walled the garden round,
And birds were everywhere—
Shy curlews on the sweetened ground,
Wood-swallows in the air.
When morn stepped up the golden East
The feathered raiders came
To banquet on the berry-feast,
Green wings and breasts aflame.
And while the early magpies sang
Their songs surpassing words,
From scarlet-blossoming hedges rang
The joyous throated birds.
And, summoned from her dainty home
Of shell and leaf and flower,
Arrayed in green and bronze, would come
The lady of the bower.
Across the grass the winged seeds
Would drift upon the breeze,
While warblers, scuttering in the reeds,
Raised mingled melodies.
A butcher-bird upon the bridge
With searching eyes would seek
Furred quarry on the rugged ridge
That sloped to Tony’s Creek.
And Tony’s Creek would babble by
Not minding anything—•
The whence, the whither and the why
Of its sweet journeying.
From over reach and sandy bar,
And pool of summer foam,
Came sounds of lowing, faint and far,
Of cattle coming home.
And where the ferns bent down to glass,
And gaze upon their charms,
The plovers in the tufted grass
Would shrill their loud alarms.
Beyond the garden and the hedge
A whisper came to me
From o’er the green horizon edge
Of youth’s fair Arcady.
And jesting much at ancient Care
I followed on, her track ;
And evermore I forward fare,
And evermore look back.
And evermore with rose and pearl
The dawn relights the blue.
Oh, little grey-eyed, homestead girl,
Do you remember, too ?
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Fifty-seventh Half-yearly Report
TheBANKof NORTH QUEENSLAND
LIMITED.
♦
(1) Tlie Directors have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the Fifty-seventh Half-yearly
Report and Balance Sheet as on the 31st December, 1910.
(2) The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Interest on Deposits, Common-
wealth and States Income and Land Taxes, paying all charges, and providing for bad and
doubtful debts, amount to . . .. •• •. •• .. ..£8,505 4 10
To w4iich is to be added: —•
Balance from last half-year .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 63 10
' ~—- £3)568 lo o
which the Directors recommend to be appropriated as follows:—•
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum.. £4,875 0 0
„ Queensland Dividend Tax . . .. . . .. .. .. .. 243 15 0
£5,118 15 0
„ Provision for Dividend for the jnonth of January, 1917, at the rate
of 6 per cent, per annum .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853 2 6
„ Balance carried forward .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,596 16 2
£8,568 13 8
BALANCE SHEET of the BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND LIMITED
for the Half=year ended 31st December, 1916.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits .. .. .. ..£1,063,585 5 1
Bills payable and other liabilities 88,536 17 2
Reserve Fund . . 37,500 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 8,568 13 8
■ 208,568 13 8
£1,360,690 15 11
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash Balances ..£313,619 12 4
Australian Notes .. .. .. 65,809 10 0
Commonwealth arid Queensland Gov-
ernment Stock . . .. .. 60,000 0 0
Remittances in Transit to Branches
and Agents.. .. .. .. 108,132 19 0
£537,562 1 4
Bills Discounted, Advances, and all
other Debts .. .. .. 738,128 14 7
Bank Premises. .. .. .. 85,000 0 0
£1,360,690 15 11
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Salaries, Rent, Rates and Taxes,
and other Charges at Head Office
and twent}' Branches .. ..£lO,OlO 3 4
„ Interest paid and accrued on Deposits 11,329 16 8
~ Balance .. .. .. .. 8,568 13 8
£35,908 13 8
£63 8 10
By Balance from last Half-year
„ Gross Amount of Profit for Half-
year 35,846
4 10
£35,908 13 8
RESERVE FUND
To Balance £37,500 0 0
£37,500 0 0
By Balance
..£37,500 0 0
£37,500 0 0
Audited and found correct.
A. BURTON {
G. T. O. LANG j
Auditors.
A. S. COAVLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
Wo have examined the foregoing Balance Sheet, made up to the 31st December, 1916, and report that
we find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances at Head Office and to the
Balance Sheets furnished by the Branches, these latter being certified to by the respective Managers and
Accountants.
Wc have counted the Cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane
on the 31st ult., and hereby certify that we have found them correct.
We further certify that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is full and fair, properly drawn up, and
exhibits a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank as shewn by the books on the 31st Decem-
ber, 1916.
Brisbane, 10th January, 1917.
A. BURTON,
G. T. 0. LANG,
Auditors.
“Who’ll Represent Australia
at the Imperial Conference?”
You don’t know, I don’t know, nobody knows.
But there is one thing we all know, NELSON’S represent the acme of perfection
in Soda-Fountain mechanism, and the height of purity with the production of
their famous True Fruit Syrups.
We aim to please; we know only one rule: “Absolute Satisfaction.” When instal-
ling your Fountain consult the Specialist. Ask our advice. Remember you are
under no obligation to buy. Just come along and chat the whole proposition over
with NELSON’S—“The Firm that knows.”
COU> viV-OSSA
M 3
Above is an illustration of a complete, economical outfit, neat, compact, service-
able, labor saving, time saving, money saving. Write us to-day for quotation for
complete Outfit. Remember, we can quote you a full Soda Outfit,
complete in every detail, ready for use,
£25
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
The House of Quality, 219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Fleming H. Mogg, Preston House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Allen & Wakefield Streets, Wellington, N.Z.
A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street, Perth.
Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street, Adelaide.
M-
«:
B"
v
HI
,vC7i
i
A
ill
1H
HH
HHi
*
i
'.. -
■
I i
>■•■■■••
Mitchell Completeness means Keener Pleasures
You have in the Mitchell Motor-car the
essential things—durability, comfort, relia-
bility.
You have more —you have twenty-six extra
features which make for added comfort,
increased strength, greater power.
These extra features come to you without
advanced cost to you—they are paid for
by the factory savings effected by the
efficiency methods of the efficiency engineer,
John W. Bate.
John W. Bate has installed in the Mitchell
model factory 2092 efficiency machines.
Waste lias been reduced to a niinirnnni. Ten
thousand savings have been made.
Because of these economies in manufacturing
the Mitchell offers 20 per cent, extra value.
It embodies costly features which other cars
are forced to omit.
The Mitchell combines in one master model
all the best features of 257 of the world’s
finest cars.
You have to ride in it to realise the supreme
comfort and smoothness of riding given by
its Bate 50-inch cantilever rear springs, and
the roominess due to its long 120-inch
wheelbase.
Actual experience will bring home to you
the life-long endurance of the Mitchell. Six
Mitchells have averaged 164,372 miles each—
over 30 years of ordinary service. You will
appreciate, too, the utter reliability of its
powerful engine, fitted with unfailing mag-
neto ignition.
The surpassing beauty of the Mitchell will
ever be a source of pride and delight to you.’
Test the Mitchell yourself—enjoy the keener
satisfaction which the unique completeness
of the Mitchell will bring you.
Literature on request.
Five=passenger, £435. Single=seater £415.
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland: F. H. GORDON & CO., 140 Castlereagli Street, Sydney. Agents for Victoria and
Tasmania: JAS. A MUNRO & CO., 493-503 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. Agents for South Australia: ORCHARD RALPH & CO.,
Victoria Stre3t, Adelaide. Agents for West Australia: BRADLEY & WILLIAMS, 853-857 Hay Street, Perth. Agents for New
Zealand: North Island —INGLIS BROS., Wellington; South IsIand—HAMLET & TENCH, 166 Tuam Street, Christchurch.


“It is ill arguing with a hungry man,” says the
old proverb. But it is worse playing tricks with a
sick one. When the doctor orders brandy he means
real good stuff —the best.” Give the patient
Martell’s, and both he and his doctor will be
satisfied. Being rich in the higher ethers it is
unequalled in case of sickness.
Besides, it is perfect for social purposes.
MARTELL’-S BRANDY
OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715.
[3
Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the following state-
ment : Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth anti
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
water add loz. of bay rum and a small box
of Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of the hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff. —Advt. [2
ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
“SWAN SAFETY
Can't Leak,
Biol, Miss,
or Scratch!
dfg
The
Soldiers’
Pen
Catalogue free on request. Sold by all Stationers
MAtJIE, TODD & CO., London and Branches. and Jewellers,
lustralian Branch (Wholesale only): J, A. BURKE, S Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH—
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GRE>-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“N’importe”: Re “Will o’ the Wisp” (B.
7/12/’l6). The mysterious illumination was pro-
br-Ur due to incandescent petroleum. This pheno-
menon is not seen over all oil-fields, but according to
Beeby Thompson occurs in the Baku and East Indian
fields. The cause is the forcing upwards of petroleum
through some pervious stratum by water pressure—-
petroleum is lighter than water. This finely-divided
petroleum ignites spontaneously and may continue
to glow for hours. On January 21, 1911, from
Ivingscote, -Kangaroo Island (S.A.), I witnessed an
illumination in the neighborhood of Murray’s Lagoon.
25 miles distant. A stretch of country about eight
or 10 miles from east to west was brilliantly lighted
for quite half an hour after 1 first saw it. This part
of the country has been taken up for oil several times
in the past, and many indications abound. The
cause of the incandescent petroleum appears to be
easily determined. The line of cleavage of earth-
quakes runs north and south through the Island.
After the big shock of 1902 Murray’s Lagoon went
dry, but in 1910 the rainfall was double the average
and the lagoon was choke full. Next year was
normal in rainfall, but 1912 was dry until the end
of June, when there was a heavy fall. About a
fortnight later another extensive illumination was
seen over the same country lasting for an hour and
a half. I have heard also that a similar illumination
has been seen near the mouth of the river Murray.
* * * *
“Fiat Lux”: What Australian bird lays
the largest setting of eggs? I nominate the little
woman about the same size as a canary, known on
the Murchison goldfields (W.A.) as the Java
sparrow. . Last summer I watched a pair build a
nest. I waited till the lady had placed 19 in the
bank. Then, as she appeared to be making a hobby
of it, I left the district.
“J.II.”: Know, any of you, of a fresh-
water seal? At Lake Echo (Tas.), far from the
haunts of the tourist, I observed a strange-looking
creature that seemed to belong to the seal or sea-
elephant family. It had a smooth round head of
the bulldog type, and seemed to be about the size
of a yearling calf. We couldn’t get closer acquainted
owing to its unsociable habits. Local residents told
rpe that this animal had been in the lake for as
long as they could remember, and had always been
alone.
* * * *
“Lamb”: “Lantana” (B. 14/12/’l6) asks
if a tally of 1835 sheep, shorn in one day by nine
men, is an Australian record. If it is, then the
Maoriland boys can give their Australian cobbers a
start. This tally was put up at Collins Bros.’ Aranui
shed at Mangamahu, near Fordell. Six men turned
out 1442 sheep during the usual shearing hours in
a day. Tallies: A. Wilson 305, G. Bolton 267,
C; Johnston 246, D. Capieron 209, W. Mahoney 208
and R. Gray 207 —an average of 240 sheep per man.
BAD JUDGING.
ANGRY EXHIBITOR : “Why didn’t my dawg get a prize?”
JUDGE: “Well, for one thing, his legs aren’t long enough.”
A.E.: “Long enough he blowed! Ain’t they touch in’ the ground? ’Ow much longer
d’yer expect a dawg’s legs ter he?”
“S.A.”: Re “Barcoo” (B. 21/12/’l6),
who nominates Mitchell grass as our greatest natural
fodder. I move an amendment to include the kurrajong
tree, the hardy evergreen that has pulled many a
grazier through when every blade of grass had gone.
It’s always there, but “Bareoo’s” grass isn’t. The
stock will come at it any season of the year, and the
more it is lopped the spriglitlier it bobs up again.
Five hundred sheep can exist on one kurrajong for
two days. Edible timbers of all descriptions—broad-
leafed box, belar, myall, rosewood, whitewood, wilga
(the non-drooping type), willow (the immigrant, not
the indigenous) and wild orange—all make a pro-
found and respectful salaam to their superior in relia-
bility and succulence, the kurrajong. Gangway there,
please, for the champions of the broad-leafed box 1
“Farmer”: Re the sudden death of sheep
mentioned by “J.Z.R.” (B. 14/12/’l6). The experi-
ence of the sheepowners in Victoria Valley, at the
foot of the Grampians, may throw some light on the
cause of the Monaro (N.S.W.) trouble. The folks
in this valley are very careful about disturbing their
sheep when the bloom is on the lobelia (Isotoma
fluviatilis). If excited the sheep die, and then have
to be skinned at once. The stench is awful. The
little vegetable is a trailing growth with a bluish
blossom, and though innocent-looking it is the worst
member of a shady family who have a narcotic prin-
ciple. Other stock are sometimes affected also. The
other day a well-bred mare did a bit of a spurt from
the paddock to the homestead and then fell dead.
The diagnosis was lobelia.
“Barcoo” : Contributors on the dangerous
effect of mulga and other Australian bush splinters
when they become embedded in the flesh of horses
or cattle, neglected to name the “gutta-percha,”
which grows profusely in the saucer-like depres-
sions and swampy forest round the Gulf of Car-
pentaria. It has a dark-green foliage, grows up
to 20 pr 30 feet high, and when the bark is punc-
tured it exudes a milky substance. The quickest
way to cure the horse that gets damaged by this
shrub, especially if the twig be green, is to hand
out the victim a pill from the business end of
the Winchester. Stockmen when mustering in
“gutta-percha” country are particularly careful, for
should a horseman be dashed against the limbs of
the tree, the result is a painful running sore that
will take months of careful dressing to cure. In
the case of a splinter not being quickly removed
blood poisoning will set in, and even when a
cure is effected the patch has a tendency to break
out again. The worst danger, though, is when
the rider is tearing after breaking beasts and gets
slashed across the eyes by a branch. Total loss
pf the sight has followed; in any case months of
intense pain and suffering.
NOT ASKING FOR MORE.
BOSS: “Hullo, Jacky, what’s up?”
TACKY: “That cow longu there kin chuck me out.”
BOSS: “You ought to hare him up for damages.”
JACKY: “No fear; this pheller got plenty too much damage a’ready.”
“Yondys”: At Moorland, on the N.S.W.
North Coast, a carpet snake 13ft. lin. long was
killed recently by two youths, who then proceeded
to skin the horror. They found 63 young snakes
in the body, all alive, and about 6in. long. Is
this a record?
“Jumbuek”: I’m not entering it as a
record, but it takes beating. A team consisting of
Clarey, Martin and Gantley pressed 102 bales with
a Ferrier wool-press in one day. The bales were
all over the standard weight and properly sewn;
there were none of your patent bale-hooks in those
days.
* # * *
“E.S.S.”: About the three most shudder-
some things in the bush are the big yellow centi-
pede, the scorpion and the small stinging grub—a
black and yellow gregarious horror that clings in
clusters to the leaves of young box trees, and noisily
throws up its conjoint tail as you pass by. A 12-
inch centipede is just as objectionable for a bedmate
as a black snake. It calls occasionally on the tent-
dwellers, and it simply loves bark humpies. The scor-
pion seldom comes out of its hiding before dusk.
Tn the North it often grows to a length of six
inches. The female, like the female spider, is
larger and fiercer than the male. It carries its
long, armed tail curved over its back, and gener-
ally brings it to the house in the firewood. The
red-striped shares with the scorpion the distinction
of being the most poisonous of the Australian arach-
nida. The poison causes severe shooting pangs,
much swelling and nausea, but is not fatal to a
healthy being. A' station manager in Tongowoko
county (north-west N.S.W.) succumbed to the bite
of one of these crawlers in 1900; but such cases
are extremely rare. The scorpion strikes and stings
with the finely-pointed weapon on the end of its
tail; centipedes and spiders inflict their wounds
with the falces —the curved, horizontally-working,
pincer-like instrument with which the jaws are fur-
ifished.
THE COMING MILLENNIUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a rumor softly hummin’
Through the pulsin’ atmosphere
That the great Millennium's cornin',
And will very soon be here.
There’s forecastin’ and foretellin’
Of a universal peace
When all bay’netin’ and shellin’
And explosiveness will cease.
All mankind will love their neighbors,
And their neighbors’ wives. The Huns?
Well, they'll manufacture mattocks
From the metal of their guns;
While the Turks, with tears of penitence
A-runnin’ down their cheeks,
With the Bulgars, will be sobbin’
On the bosoms of the Greeks.
Then, I ’most forgot to mention,
We shall cease to fight like brutes,
That a sort of Hague convention
Which will settle all disputes
Will be formed among the nations
(When they’ve got the time to spare
From their war-like occupations),
IV ith the Kaiser in the chair.
Kaiser Bill will swap his sabre
For a length of garden-hose,
Do a bit of honest labor—
Say, plant cabbages in rows—
While in some suburban garden,
Catchin’ snails and sowin’ seeds,
lie’ll forget he’s Ilohenzollern
While lie’s busy hoein’ weeds.
While Von Tirpitz, with a basin, -
Full of love instead of hate,
In a, Nonconformist chapel
Will be handin’ round the plate.
It’s a most attractive vision,
And eve can, without a doubt
In our mind, with great precision,
See the whole thing workin’ out.
We can see the tiger lyin’
Calm, a-lickin’ of his hide,
Most benevolently sighin’,
With a lamb or two inside.
But, from what we know of Proosians,
We’d suggest it would be wise
If the British and the Roosians
And each one of the Allies,
While a-lookin’ sweet as candy,
Kept his faculties alert,
And a few explosives handy
In the bosom of his shirt.
Mind, we’re nuts upon Millenniums,
’Cos we hate all kinds o’ strife,
And we’d love to love our neighbor,
And especially his wife;
But our strong belief increases
That, if Germany’s to burst,
Not to break a peace to pieces,
We must donkey-lick her first!
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.


l\
’At
<SB
V ‘S
zmr
<rf>
:>>r
r&:
a»>
W
w.T'* 1
»
■sn;
%
IDXJ*
»3
fr-.
M
*4m
mm
sez
.kf.v*:
£#
Hi
s**
«ksa«/- •♦,
**>■
».<f,
IU?/
&
WB
3P$
*.3«
J/di lUfrplj
and satisfied-
.£/>£•. Cj*'
STANDARD
WEIGHT
lO for 6d.
¥f not you soon will be
if you’ll try
CIGARETTES
Tphe high quality of tbese world-renowned
1 cig'arettes never varies. Eacb cigarette
in eacb box contains tbe best of tobacco,
blended and manufactured in the most
scientific and hyg'ienic manner.
6d. for lO N~ 333 20 for Jj® B
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable at all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australia.
Manufacturers : Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd., London, Eng'.
Britain’s Greatest High-class Tobacco and Cig'aretie Facttor^.
,v.Vx'A-aU


\ ## Will,//
I /
/ ~
BARGAINS HOTTER
THAN EVER
Bask in the
Sunshine of these
RED SPOT
BARGAINS
MURDOCH’S
Never have your twinklers beheld better bargains—the savings will make
your purses quiver.
Don’t take our word for it—grip the bargains and test their merit.
For practical economy the Red Spot excels—now is the time to hitch
up to satisfaction.
Write Desk R if you can’t call— there’s a copy of the Red Spot Catalogue
for you—send for it.
Red Spot Tailoring Offers
70
SUITS TO MEASURE
at RED SPOT PRICE,
5819
Other Red Spot Suits-to-Measure are:—
Special Purchase Tweeds, 52/9
All-Wool Indigo Serge —
Usually 95/ —NOW 78/9
Now don’t hesitate too long—-these big reduc-
tions in Murdoch Tailoring should prompt
you to
Leave Your Order To-day.
Write for patterns if you can’t call —to
Desk R. Fill in the Coupon.
at
DESK R.
Please forward -patterns of Red Spot Suit-
ings at the Suit-to-measure, with
tape and self-measurement form and copy
of Red Spot Catalogue.
Name
Address
Red Spot Snaps in
Men’s Reatfy-to-wear
Washing Suits.
&
it
' w
“Kepecool"
Two-piece Suits
in plain
fawn wash-
ing Mercer-
ised Repp.
Worth up
to 21/-
Red Spot Price,
Grey
Striped
Tweed
Two-piece
Sports
Suits —
Smartly cut
and every
detail well
finished.
Us ual Price,
357-
Red Spot Price,
29/9.
Boys’ Cotswold
Suits Red Spotted.
Not the Suits but the
Prices.
Special Line of Cots-
wold Suits —unlined —in
Grey shades—soft flan-
nel finish —plain knees—-
sizes 3 to 13 —fit boys 5
to 15 years.
dfgdf
RED SPOT PRICE, 16 9
Red Spot Specials
in Panamas.
rfi
Genuine Native Panamas
—2|in. to 2fin. brims.
Usually 15/6.
NOW 10/6, Post Free.
ODDMENTS IN
PAN AMAS —slightly
soiled—sizes 6J to
only—2lin. to 2|in.
brims.
RED SPOT CLEARING PRICE, 6/11
Soft Felts at Red
Spot Prices.
Smart Soft Felts in
up-to-date shapes—■
Greys, Slates, browns,
etc. —nobby hats at
nominal prices.
Usually 8/11.
Red Spot Price, 5/8
Postage <Sd. extra.
70
Smart Golf Shirts.
g
Here’s your chance
to save money on
Shirts. 25 per cent.
reduction—how
does that strike
you? Up-to-date
Golf Shirts in good
materials—neat
stripe designs.
Usually 3/11.
RED SPOTTED TO 2/11^
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
tt
Wh ere the GOOD Hats are
Business, Bobbery, etc
“5.0. A.”: A Perth butcher, evidently
wearied of verbal attempts to convince tbe
public of his determination to do nothing
but a spot cash trade, has hung a gun over
his counter, with an inscription attached: —
PLEASE
do not ask for credit, as this gun is loaded.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos an old George 111.
penny, dated 1797, found in an excavation
at Nock and Kirby’s, in Lower George-
street, Sydney—Colonel Johnston’s original
grant. J. M. Stevens, who died in London
two months ago, had a curious collection of
copper coins and tokens, gathered in the
Hit or Miss Hotel, Windmill-street, which
had been in the Stevens family for a century.
When J. M. Stevens decided upon demolish-
ing the old house and building a new one, he
packed all the coins and tokens in a large
glass jar and deposited the lot in the masonry
work over the main door—a find for someone
when the house knackers come along in a
century or so.
* * * *
“J.D.C.” : Some time ago Melbourne
hoardings were afflicted with a life-size figure
of an abo. clad only in a smile and a shirt.
He was advertising the shirt. Apparently
the snorts of the wowser were not without
effect, for soon he was given a pair of pants.
Socks followed. Then he further improved
liis worldly position and at present is garbed
in evening dress. I’m looking for him in
mayoral robes next. Anything is possible in
a democratic country.
“D.F.”: The Speck’s fruit industry made
a good showing last year in spite of freight
troubles and the cutting-out of the South
American market, the export being the big-
gest yet. There were 1,812,045 cases of
fruit, more than half of which Sydney took,
and 34,536,6301 b. of jam, most of which went
to feed the British army, not to mention
odds and ends like dried fruit and pulp and
canned fruit. But in a few years’ time,
when all the orchards planted out in the
last few years come into full bearing, Tas-
mania will have about twice as much fruit
to dispose of as at present. Then perhaps
it will be possible to buy decent apples at
a reasonable price in Hobart.
“McNorth” : Being fairly well acquainted
with industries that have large, comprehen-
sive stinks attached to them—from Chinese
gnapi-making, whereby small herring-like
fish are crammed into tall jars and allowed
to rot and then corked for future reference
at the dinner-table, to the growing of the
durian, that evil-odored but luscious fruit
known also as the Pride of the East—l
boldly state that the most smellful of the lot
is trochus shelling. These- shells are more
or less numerous on most of the reefs of
Torres Strait and the top of the North
Queensland coast. Being spiral cones and
not bivalves, they cannot be opened like
mother-of-pearl, so to clean them they are
simply placed on deck and the fish allowed to
rot out. When half a ton or so has been
under this treatment for a week or two the
stink interferes with the vessel’s sailing. If
any land is handy, the dreadful things are
put ashore, and the meat-ants have a beano.
Boiling has been tried, but even then some
of the too affectionate odor remains. Inci-
dentally, since the war, there has been a
great demand from Japan for trochus —for
button-making, they say.-
* * * . „ tt
“Cape Helles”: itoom for my cobber
Walker to dispute the position of Champion
Bluffer with the Billjim mentioned bv
“Jobber” (B. 28/12/’l6). In Feb., ’l5, 10
of us from Mena Camp projected a two days’
trip to Toussum, near Ismailia, the scene
of Abdul’s unsuccessful attempt to seize the
Suez. My cobber Walker was entrusted with
the cash to pucliase second-class tickets for
the party, but returned with third-class
dittoes which entitled one to a seat in a box
smelling like the back of a circus. He cut
short the profanity which arose and piloted
us into a first-class corridor car de luxe.
When the native ticket-collector arrived,
Walker distracted him with such a flood of
compliments in Arabic-Australian' on his
resplendent uniform and general beauty that
the grinning Ali, bewildered by such conde-
scension from a white man, left us in posses-
sion. On the return journey the party piled
into a first compartment again with third
tickets —excepting my cobber Walker and I,
as he had ridiculed the idea of buying tickets
again—and were engrossed in a game of
crown-and-anchor when another colored
ticket-puncher arrived. A mass collection of
tickets was made under the direction of
Walker, who demonstrated by Euclid to tbe
confused official that eight tickets were
enough for ten men. Walker failed, however,
to purchase meals for the party in the
dining-car on the strength of an old leave
pass, and not even his brilliant handling of
the porter at the station exit cleared the
gloom from his brow till we arrived at
Sault’s restaurant —where he treated us to
a blow-out of French pastry which mysteri-
ously cost him exactly two piastres.'
A Melbourne Bung, invited to the meet-
ing which was held the other day to consider
the question of selling spirits only by
measure, consulted an old Glasgie gill-vendor
beforehand. “Well,” said the local Bung, "I
suppose it’s right—a man gets just what he
pays for.” “Hey, mon,” said the old Glasgie
landlord, “ye don’t always serve what ye’re
paid for. Ye kin put yer thoomb i’ the dish.”
“X.X.” : One of the best-known Melbourne
pubs, run by one family since 1860, has just
changed hands. It is the Queen’s Arms,
better known as Champions’, at the corner
of Swanston-street and Flinders-lane. The
rent is £3120 a year, so apparently there is
still a penny or two in the beer-pump.
The Vacuum Oil Co. is a mighty good
firm or trust or monopoly as far as its em-
ployees are concerned, anyhow. This Christ-
mas it distributed £lO,OOO in bonuses to its
staff in Australasia. Permanent employees
of not less than a year’s service received a
full month’s salary; and this was quite apart
from ordinary increases of salary, which will
ampunt to another £7OOO. The bonus was
voted as a thanks-offering for loyal co-opera-
tion and in recognition also of the rise in
the cost of living. Twenty years’ continu-
ous service qualifies an employee for a
liberal pension at the age of 60-65; and
every employee has the benefit of a life insu-
rance policy for nothing. These benevolent
schemes induce the loyal co-mperation, of
course, while the co.’s “war policy” is a fair
inducement to recruiting.
* * * *
“Coot”: The bottle-oh has his own Cal-
vary, and he gathered in a deputation to
the Vic. Chief Secretary the other day to
paint a picture of it. It seems that when
lie is visiting the back entrances in search
of his lawful prey the local youngsters watch
their opportunity and filch a couple from his
cart. Then they wait until he reaches the
next street and sell him his own again, or
adjourn to a soft-drink shop and exchange
the bottles for sweets or ice-cream. How he
can be estopped from buying bottles that are
his own he’s blimed if he knows; but he
petitioned McLeod that the owners of sweet-
shops should be prevented from doing any
bottle deals. The Chief Secretary dropped
a tear and sent them away; and that is
probably the end of the matter. Still, it
may have done them good to merely talk
about it.
Brief ad. of long standing in the Melbourne
dailies: “Sir John Madden’s landau for sale,
at Tattersall’s.” Even a landau with a
judicial atmosphere is hard to sell nowadays.
But what a chance for ’Sonnah to get per-
manent space in the National Museum!
* * * *
Norway, with a population of 2\ millions
—about half that of Australia —is a poor
country with no great industries or capital,
less than 2000 miles of railroad and exports
of 20 millions sterling—about equal to the
exports of Algiers. But before the war it
owned two million tons of shipping, or
something over four-fifths of a ton per head
—double the tonnage per head even of ship-
owning Britain. Despite tremendous losses
by submarines, war has increased the Nor-
wegian tonnage greatly; but some of this
is disguised British capital registered in
Norwegian ships with the patriotic intention
of avoiding Government commandeering of
ships and the war tax on freight profits.
Almost every Norwegian has an interest in
shipping, wherefore Norway will be as sorry
to see the war end as if it were a share-
holder in a munition factory.
“J.A.K.” : While passing a George-street
(Sydney) shop the other day a tin scoop
used by grocers to mix sugar with sand
fell from the top storey and clattered on the
pavement, handy to a man who looked as
though he was often thirsty. For a moment
he thought. Then he dived for the scoop,
snatched off his ancient boxer hat and
savagely stabbed the crown of it with the
implement. At that moment a bare-headed
man in his shirt-sleeves hurried out and
said, “Oh, thank you. It dropped out of
the window.” “Yes,” replied the disrepu-
table party; “it dropped all right, and”
(holding out the scoop and the hat) “what
are you going to do about it ?’’ I went into
an adjacent hotel to condole with myself
about the lack of presence of mind that has
cursed me all through my life, and presently
the man of the battered hat came in and
ordered a whisky. And paid for it with a
nice new pound-note.
A SONG OF BATTLE EGGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rome, Tuesday.—La Stampa publishes a letter
written by the Papal Nuncio at Vienna, stating that
eggs in that city cost 20s. per dozen.
In her strong-room, late and early, sits the Leghorn
laying fairly,
While without the battle thunders and the loaves
and sausage fade;
For the message on the cable tells of poultry staunch
and stable
Laying eggs worth one-and-eightpence in the land
where wars are made.
Cash is gone and bits of paper pay the grocer and
the draper
For the wares behind their counter that they still
make shift to sell;
But the fowl-yard rocks with pleasure and the nests
o’erbrim with treasure
When the Leghorn takes advantage of the Hapsburg’s
hunger-bill.
Thus for Austria, home and beauty every pullet does
her duty ;
And the lien-fruit shines like nuggets of the long-
forgotten gold.
And the wealthy poultry-banker with a layer kneels
to thank her,
While the neighbors by her cackle of her splendid
deeds are told.
Yes, he kneels and duly praises the triumphant shout
she raises,
While without the battle thunders and the loaves and
sausage pine;
For he sees a king come creeping and a queen and
duchess weeping
Just to feast their eyes in secret on a new-laid egg
divine.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.
TO MEASURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Licensed victuallers in Melbourne have met and
considered the practice of selling spirits to measure.
The meeting was almost unanimously in favor.
See how this awful war our fine
Free institutions throttle. ,
Our new conditions undermine
Long-cherished rights, and now they steal
One privilege we love a deal—
The freedom of the bottle!
The old-time barman did not' think
His faith in us was risky,
When he let each man pour his drink;
We took a spanking nobbier then
And Heaven really helped the men
Who helped themselves —to whisky.
They talk of drinks “to measure.” That
My worst foreboding clinches.
’Twill suit the chap who’s big and fat —
But what of me.? thirst is full
Six foot, but by f the tape I pull
Four feet eleven inches!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T


READ THE SCORE
of Advantages Obtained by
Eledtric Motors
d
\
ilb-
m
%
Extreme Simplicity.
Great Overload Capacity.
Internal Ventilation.
High Commercial Efficiency.
All Parts Interchangeable.
Efficient Oiling System.
#
Special Insulating Features.
Sparkless Operation.
Write us for Particulars
or visit our Showroom.
fg
dg
df
‘Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
TELEPHONE-
CITY 3510 (5 lines).
Gouiburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.). Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents —
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA:
Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. SAUNDERS’
Table Appointments
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Spoons and
Tongs, pure Silver-plated At quality, 15/6.
Others, 8/6, 10/6 '“> / 6, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, handsomely finished, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Inkstand and Pen Box,
plated Cut Glass Bottles, “Stag” Design,
pure oaver-
-35/-
A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure Silvei
plated, A 1 quality, handsomely engraved, 63/
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, pure Silver-plated, 26 pieces
in polished Oak Case, £2/15/-
|Wi
*m
A. Saunders’ Card Receiver, pure Silver-plated, Ai quality,
handsome Floral Design, 15/6,
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-15 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite
Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Crackers, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, beautifully finished, with 2 pairs
Crackers, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, A 1 quality, highly burnished, 55/.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, fine Crystal
Cut Glass, pure Silver-plated Mounts, 27/6.
A. Saunders’ Egg Frame and
Spoons, 1 Cups, pure Silver-plated, Gilt
Lined Cups and Spoons, 35/-
txj&ima
CURES ECZEMA.
Lema, Belmore Road, Randwick, 7/8/’l6. Mr. S.
Fielder, Randwick. Dear Sir, —I suffered for many
years with Eczema on both my feet, and after trying
numerous so-called remedies without any benefit I
came to the conclusion that my case was incurable.
A friend advised me to try your remedy, “Exzerma,”
so I decided to give it a trial. After a week I was
completely cured.—W. J. Day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick. 2j() 5/ ’
$E
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing*
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
ƒd
gdf
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. llow to Strengthen tiie
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 17-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. " Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries op Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/.-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. Hoav to
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
1
■
NOME CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are 'answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this ereat work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
im~ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prof. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated.
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3!
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 'l/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card .Games, ("Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise;. 1/6. Man.
From Snowy River,, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, Ri-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted., The WHite
Slave Traffic, 1/-.' Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning -
Calculator,.!/-. The Doctor, cures for all.'
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak’,,
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Busiiraxgers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book. 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio.
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. iW'Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL, IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS’ SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr'
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Sd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot, 67 $ 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


gdf
Motor-
Driven
Warning
Sig ial,
£2/12/6
Warning Sig'nal
Nov the WORLD’S STANDARD
WARNING SIGNAL
The commanding blast of the Stewart Warning
Signal is now familiar the world over.
Yon hear it over the hills and prairies; you hear it in
the farmlands and around the ranches; you hear
it penetrating through forests, along rivers, streams
and lakes; you hear it on metropolitan boulevards,
as it makes the surging crowds stop, look and
listen. In short, you hear it ever} 7 where.
The Stewart Warning Signal is of comparatively
recent introduction, yet now stands first in sales.
The hand-operated Stewart Warning Signal costs
but £l/10 =; the motor-driven Stewart, £2/12/6.
No others are better, although all others cost more.
Buy' a Stewart Warning Signal for your car.
Stewart products will cost you nothing extra
on your new car, because most good cars are
so equipped . Buy one that is equipped with
Stewart Tyre Pump, Stewart Speedometer,
Stewart Vacuum System and Stewart
Warning Signal. It is a mark of quality.
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor=car Dealers
and Oarages—Everywhere—or write
Bennett Wood Ltd.,
284 Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney, N.S.W.
“No car is better than its accessories.”
is
m
m
Hand-
Operated
WARNING
SIGNAL,
£l/10/-
gd
T f any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Real Hair Grower
Found at Last!
The Great American Discovery “ Crystolis* 1
Grows Hair in 30 Days.
£2OO Reward if We Fail on Our Guarantee.
Try It at Our Risß, Post Coupon To-day.
This Man is Grow'ng Bale** 5 Crystolis 99 is just the thing for such cases.
Here’s good news at last for men and women whose
hair is falling, who are growing bald and grey,
whose scalps are covered with dandruff that nothing
seems to keep away, and whose heads itch like mad.
Good news even for those who imagine themselves
hopelessly and incurably bald,' or who suffer from
hair or scalp trouble of any kind.
We have had granted to us the sole Australasian
rights for the great American discovery, Crystolis,
the new hair remedy that in America and Europe has
been called the most wonderful scalp discovery of the
century, having been awarded Gold Medals at the big
Paris and Brussels Expositions.
Hundreds of men and women have written us to
tell of the phenomenal results obtained by its use.
People who have been bald for years tell how they
now glory in their beautiful hair. Others who have
had dandruff all their lives say they have now a
clean, healthy scalp and that hair stopped falling
after a few applications of this wonderful new treat-
ment.
We don’t care whether you are bothered with fall-
ing hair, prematurely grey hair, matted hair, brittle
hair, or stringy hair ; dandruff, itching scalp, or any
or all forms of hair trouble, we want you to try
“CRYSTOLIS” at our risk.
We give yon a binding guarantee without any
“strings” or red tape, that it won’t cost you a cent,
if we do not prove to you that "“Crystolis” will do
all we claim for it, and, what’s important, we have
plenty of money to back our guarantee. We have
deposited £2OO in our local bank as a special fund
to be forfeited if we fail to comply with this con-
tract. Cut out the coupon below, and post it to-day
to Creslo Laboratories, Divis. 200-X. Malcolm Build-
ings, 256 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FREE COUPON.
The Creslo Laborator'-s, Divis. 200-J-,
Malcolm Buildims, 256 a, George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
I am a reader of the Sydney Bulletin.
Prove to me without cost how “Crystolis”
stops falling' hair, grows new hair, banishes
dandruff and itching scalps, and restores prema-
ture grey and faded hair to natural color.
Write your name and address plainly and
Pin this Coupon to Your Letter.
B*o
No
Saddle is
cheap that 5s
not comfortable. The
BROOKS
is always cheapest because
in comfort-giving qualities it
excels. of all dealers.
fg
fdg
v
<( a
£ a x
[PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS an i WORKMANSHIP!
Oij
Marine. Stationary & Portable Engines.
Ik
-V
- -i
■sm
SAXTON & BINNS’ NEW TUQ “SAXO.’
60-h.p. “SKANDIA” ENGINE.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.


i
m
George
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—
thoioughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night
8 to 11. Theatre
performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
one week at Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
'Phone City 6218 and Deserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices- 6d &l/->
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6. '
Bourse $i
The Picture BlpcK
gdf
g
Grey Hair—Home
Remedy,
An old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has only
to get from the chemist two ounces of con-
centrate of tammalite and mix it with three
ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair with
a small sponge for a few nights and the
greyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula.—Advt. [2
fd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
gdf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
gdf
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Tudor policy : “Exhughes me.”
Instead of living on its own resources
N. S. Wales has in the past six years pawned
itself to borrow about £45,000,000; and the
insane suggestion is now made by the P.L.L.
executive that it can get out of the bog by
going further into it. Also, having
£2,000,000 more interest to pay, the sugges-
tion is made that it would help the situation
if the workers worked six hours a day in-
stead of eight—on the well-known principle
that if you have another ton put on your
load the best way to shift it is by unhooking
a couple of horses from the term.
A SAFE PREDICTION.
TOMKINS (the strong man): “If I marry
I’ll rule the roost, or lonow why."
REV. N. PECK (bitterly): “You’ll know
why, all right."
The Federal Treasurer announces that in-
vestments in the War Loan will be free not
only from Commonwealth and State income
taxes, but from the wealth levy as welL
The principle is all wrong: these backstair
concessions always are—they are in the
same category as free postage for M’s.P.,
free motor-cars for Ministers and their
wives, free tram-rides for aldermen, and
similar perks. The State or other public
authority in such cases never knows what
it is paying; and the whole arrangement
is unbusinesslike. Poynton might well try
a new line: let him offer 54 per cent, or
even 5| per cent, for money and let it rank
as an ordinary investment. The size of the
interest will .then attract tens of thousands
of pounds which will not otherwise be
secured. This is especially the case in con-
nection with small investors. For them
income tax has no terrors. They have never
paid any, or, if any, none worth mentioning ;
and to them it is a 44 per cent, investment
and no more.
THAT ORGANISING GENIUS AGAIN.
Germany is using 50,000 criminals in her latest
army. —News item.
RECRUTTING SERGEANT: “Come on out, Hans
you’ve got to fight!"
RECALCITRANT HANS: “Fight he verdommt !
Haven’t I aways broke der law? Veil,
I demand me rights as a griminal to
finish der sentence!”
When the Treasurer is looking round for
new ways of raising loan money for war
purposes he ought to consider the question
of selling annuities. There are dozens of
women and old people who have limited
means and are living partly on their cap-
ital and partly on interest. They have no
dependents and they are under no obligation
to leave any principal behind them. For such
people an annuity is the very best thing
possible; they would hand over the whole
of their capital and get annually whatever
amount it would provide, the entire liability
m, the State expiring with their death.
These people are chary of investing any
of their principal in a war loan because
they know they must nibble at their capital
every year. Deferred annuities might be
considered, too; for there are other people
who, though not at present in need of money,
want to provide themselves with an annuity
m five or 10 or 12 years’ time. Annuity
tables don’t require any elaborate calcula-
tion ; Knibbs, with a couple of good actu-
aries, could fix them up in three days. They
offer a chance of getting otherwise unobtain-
able money; and all the money that can be
obtained is badly needed just now.
If ever there was a time when the N. S.
Wales State Labor party needed wise guid-
ance it is now ; and it seems to be getting
veiy little of it. When the party came into
power its declared purpose was to stop the
loan extravagance of the other crowd. The
culwlm' 1 had been borrowing less than
io, 000,000 a year; the Labor Government
gradually worked up to £9,000,000. The
party that was opposed to booms and bubbles
has merely blown the old bubble bigger and
biggei, until now the thing has burst and
thousands of .men are being thrown out of
Government jobs; and all that the PL L
executn-e can suggest, apparently, is more
bubble —and then more burst.
M.L. Premier Massey orating in London :
Whatever happens the Empire must set its teeth.
Good! Bill with his jaws clamped together,
thinking Imperially in a silk hat, will be an
inspiration. They haven’t been clamped
lately, and the result has been most depress-
ing.
• Donald luackiunon, director-general of
recruiting, represents Prahran in the Yic.
Assembly. Various attempts have been
made by the local P.L.C. to oust him, the
last Labor candidate having failed by only
a few hundred votes. Now it is proposed
to call on Frank Hyett, the vociferous secre-
tary of the Kailwaymen’s Association, and an
ardent preacher of the gospel of strike, to
submit his name for selection as Donald’s
opponent at the next election. As the rail-
waymen are strong in Prahran, Ilyett’s pre-
election will be a certainty. A soldier named
Parker, formerly an
articled clerk in the office
of lawyer Joseph Woolf,
was originally chosen to
contest the Prahran
seat for Labor next
time. But many things
have happened since
then, including Park-
er’s departure for the
Front. And why should
a soldier be chosen,
anyway, when a "pro-
minent industrialist” is
available to fill the
breach with violent
language?
“Y.Z.” : As an indus-
trious and affectionate
gentleman with an ex-
cess of forebears, I de-
sire to draw attention
to an anomaly in in-
come-tax conditions. It
is specified that an
allowance of £13 is per-
mitted for each child
wholly maintained by a
taxpayer, so that a man.
with four youngsters on
his hands sidesteps the
penalty on £52 of in-
come. I do not object
to that. By. all means
let the local producer
be encouraged. But why
is it that a child is not
allowed a similar deduc-
tion for every parent
wholly maintained by
him? Many a young
man in this State is the
sole support of a pair
of parents, with per-
haps a grandparent and
an aunt or so thrown
in, and it is shamefully invidious to wholly
ignore this white man’s burden, while gra-
ciously rewarding the fellow who, after all,
is only displaying a virtue common to animal
creation.
This is how it goes: Hughes, lifuse,
I-Ifwhews!
From the report of a speech at a Sydney
meeting “convened by the P.L.L. executive
to protest against the retrenchment policy
of the Federal and State Governments” :
They, the members of the P.L.L. executive, were
not opposed to the voluntary system, but they re-
fused to take any part in recruiting work until such
time as the Government restored the labor market to
its normal state.
This shows how the Holman Government
has demoralised the P.L.L. It thinks now
that a loan drunk is the “normal state” of
the country. And the tragedy of it is that
instead of punishing the profligates who are
responsible for the orgy, this P.L.L. execu-
tive, which ought to be the brains of the
Labor movement, deliberately proposes to
punish Billjim who is fighting the country’s
battles at the Front.
Cohen having put up the shutters, the
spendthrift N. S. Wales Government finds
itself left with uncompleted works all over
the country and railway lines that end
nowhere. One deputation wept over the
half-finished Nimitybelle railway the other
day; a speaker at the Labor Council talked
of hundreds of thousands spent on the Picton
line, where work is now hung up “for want
of a few thousands to complete it”; and
the Condobolin-Broken Hill line has stopped
short at a wire fence. Thus we face the
gloomy future with a few millions more of
unproductive debt—which means, of course,
a few hundred thousands a year more to pay
out of taxation.
The Censor has failed to realise the possi-
bilities of his job. He would be less disliked
—he might in cases be almost loved —if he
would quit suppressing the information that
other people want to publish and would
publish what other people want to suppress.
For a start he might investigate some of
the instances in which returned soldiers
haven’t been able to get the billets their
employers promised to keep for them. A
weekly list of those names would make a
thrilling story. In any case the Director of
Repatriation, when he arrives, ought to turn
one of his eyes that way. Prim,a facie the
best repatriation is the return of the soldier
to his old job; and the fact that a man is
in need of anew job should set the director
asking why.
Federal Works Minister Lynch, always a
strong conscriptionist, last week said that
some form of compulsion will yet have to
be resorted to.” But, owing to the blunder
of the referendum, the difficulties are now
tremendous. In particular Australia is
bound to pay great regard to the heavy
‘‘No” vote cast by Billjim. That throws on
Australia the responsibility of exhausting
every possible means of supplying reinforce-
ments by voluntary effort. Everybody has
been told ten thousand times that nothing is
too much to do for the men at the Front;
and Australia will not be doing very much
i c it adopts a plan—no matter how good
we may think it is—which very nearly half
the men at the Front have begged it not to
adopt. So far in order to get recruits there
is one plan we have not yet tried—we have
not handed over the business to a Gov-
ernment which has declared that the volun-
tary system is sufficient. The present situa-
tion is just as anomalous as if, a referendum
having declared that absolute Freetrade was
the proper policy, a Protectionist Prime
Minister clung ,to office to put his enemies'
policy into effect.
A demand is made by the Australian
wheat-cocky for a guaranteed 4s. a bushel
for the next two or three years. If he
doesn t it, he will, he threatens, go out
of the business in large numbers. He pro-
bably won’t; but, all the same, it is an
unpleasant and from a national point of
view highly dangerous fact that there isn’t
nearly as much money in the wheat-growing
business as there ought to be. By far the
greater number of Australian cockies don’t
average as much as a city tradesman; and
that is not allowing any interest on then-
capital, or taking into account the hours
they work and the inconveniences they put
up with. Their great trouble is that, while
others can pass on increases in costs, they
can’t, because their market is mostly foreign.
Cocky is up against a stone wall; and the
more the rest of the community takes the
less there is for him. If he doesn’t co-
operate and reduce his costs where he can,
he is in for a bad time.
A tremendous question has been agitating
Bendigo for weeks past. The old town has
been stirred as never before. Shopkeepers
have met and met again ; the City Council
has held special sittings; deputations have
waited on the Mayor; petitions have been
forwarded to the Premier, and there are still
alarums and excursions. For the issue hangs
yet in the balance. Anything to do with the
supply of reinforcements? With the war
loan? Don’t trifle! The question is.
gentlemen and patriots, shall Bendigo take
its weekly half-holiday on Wednesday or
Saturday ?
THE NEW EXCUSE.
“Thought you would be here at two-thirty.
Do you know it’s now half-past three?”
“Oh, that’s all right, dear! It’s really only
two-thirty, you know.”
THE CEASELESS SHIRK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The many things the Allies do,
The foolish things or wise ;
Strange stories that are partly true,
Or altogether lies;
The plans and schemes which critics guess
Will extricate us from the mess—
All these are published in the press.
And oftentimes, I must confess,
I wonder at the work
Accomplished in this time of stress
Against the Force of Frightfulness.
But —still the shirkers shirk !
The fighting on the Western Front
Is worrying tlie foe,
Whilst Kussia grimly bears the brunt
Of battles ’midst the snow ;
Brave Billjim mourns his missing mates;
■ The angry orator orates
Of bungles in the Balkan States;
And Europe patiently awaits
The downfall of the Turk.
Sly traitors safe within our gates
Sing silently their hymns of Hates.
But—still the shirkers shirk !
The foe remains on foreign soil,
And treats its sons as slaves
To help him in his warlike toil;
And we —we rule the Waves,
Where crops of seaweed grow, instead
Of corn, which serves to make the bread
Whereon all fighters must be fed,
And mines are but a cause of dread,
And deep-sea monsters lurk.
Big bombs from airships overhead
Kill babies ,as they lie abed.
But —still the shirkers shirk !
So many things there are to do
Before the war can end,
And we must win, or we must rue
The reckoning, my friend.
So many things are left undone
(Conscription over here, for one)
The test of grit has scarce begun.
1 see no glint of gladsome sun
A-peeping through the murk ;
A stream of blood has yet to run
Ere Peace be forced upon the Hun;
No peace can last which is not won.
But —still the shirker shirks !
VICTORIA;
EDMUND FISHER.


11l
PALING’S
PIANOS.
Satisfaction Guaranteed
44
HE
Chappell Pianos.
BRITISH MADE
SINCE 1812.
These famous Pianos have over one hundred years
of experience incorporated in their construction,
and are noted for their evenness of scale, purity of
tone and beauty of case design. Why not call and
inspect them ? Catalogues free.
Sames Pianos.
MADE IN
ENGLAND.
On account of their sweetness of tone, fine touch
and great durability, our SAMES British Pianos
are favorites with our customers in all parts of
Australia. Catalogues posted free.
Estey Pianos.
SELECTED FOR
AUSTRALIA.
These Pianos contain new features in construction
that make them a most desirable piano for extreme
climates. Catalogues posted free.
We also stock ESTEY ORGANS, the finest Reed
Organs in the world. “Estey Booklet” free.
Vidtor Pianos.
THOUSANDS AND
THOUSANDS SOLD.
Full sweet tone, sound construction, long wear and
honest value is what our customers get when they
decide on purchasing a VICTOR Piano at Paling’s.
The most popular pianos in Australia. Ask for
Illustrated Catalogue.
WE SELL ON TIME PAYMENT.
CATALOGUES FREE. We will take your present piano in exchange.
PALING’S.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba h Lismore.
Read
what Britain's Leading
Composers and Con-
ductors say about the
faster* G
Supremacy of
“His Master’s Voice
Records.
SIR EDWARD ELGAR says:—
“The vast scope for musical entertainment afforded by ‘His Master’s
Voice’ Gramophone and Records renders the instruments' perhaps the
most remarkable of all home instruments.”
SIR ALEXANDER MACKENZIE says:
“The faithful reproduction of the orchestral tone-color, the crispy-clear
rendering of details, as well as marked rhythmical exactitude, seem
to be extraordinarily effective.”
LANDON RONALD, DR. ETHEL SMYTH & EDWARD GERMAN are
similarly appreciative.
FEBRUARY LISTS NOW READY
include these three notable records: —
2-0599—Scenes Pittoresques (Angelus)
Royal Albert Hall Orchestra.
02585—“Requieum Mass” Caruso.
2-054064—Garden Scene, Act 3. “Boris Godounov.”
Ober and Althouse.
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
“ GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
safeguard YOUR health
qTJ.CoIHs Broiiing's
CWorody»e
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
One of the sincerest' compliments
paid the car is the eager demand
for it at second-hand.
You will rarely see it mention id -
in the second-hand advertise-
ments. There is a constant
waiting market and the prk.e
is always high.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers. Detroit
Messrs. Dalgetv & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Canada Cycle & Motor Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne.
Messrs. Cheney Motor Company, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Messrs. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Messrs. Co-operative Motors, Ltd.,
Hobart.
Messrs. Magnus, Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington.
Mr. George Henning,
Auckland.
Mr. Newton King,
New Plymouth.
Messrs. Hawkes, Ltd.,
Christchurch.
Messrs. Cossens & Black, Ltd.,
Dunedin.
Mr. P. H. Vickery,
Invercargill.


As criminals sometimes break gaol so are
sea-raiders likely to evade custody. In
either case the career of the escapee is ever
short suggests that wise spirit, King George
IV. tpp-notch Scotch.—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
I
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N. A. Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
trade mark
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
Used the
World Over
n
MOTOR
...CARS
Certain-teed
Roofing is weather-proof and water-tight. It is
unaffected by changes in temperature or by
atmospheric gases. Nor will it buckle, blister
nor crack. There is a type of Certain-teed
for every building of every kind—for every
roof, whether flat or pitched. You can in-
spect this excellent roofing at your local
shop-keeper’s. Look for the "General” on the
roll. Ask for free samples and literature. Cail soon!
Mr. C. C. McCann, Representative of
General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Perpetual Trustee Bldg., Sydney, N. S.W.
MILLS IN U. S. A.: East St. Louis, Illinois;
Marseilles, Illinois; York, Pennsylvania;
San Francisco, California.
LONDON OFFICE:
Imperial House, Kingsway,
London, W. C.
Gerfain^teed
Certain-teed
tsassa
a
SB
Distributors: John Danks Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne; Jas. Campbell & Sons
Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe & Co., Adelaide.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
-To have won the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes
at Randwick on Saturday Baronet Cooper’s £5OOO
Red fern would -need to have been a stone better horse
than he was that afternoon. It was. the weight that
stopped him, and, taking all the circumstances into
consideration, there is little room for doubt that the
handicappers are merely treating- this horse on the
blind. Rosedell and Dame Acre were in the* van to
the distance. There the latter melted out, and half
a furlong further Rosedell was punctured. ' Here
Redfern took charge, and for a moment looked like
coming on, but 9st. 111 b. was a big anchor, and last
year’s winner (Quinn’s Post) and Wedding Day
sprinted out for home. 'Hie mare had most steam
left, and just struck the line as her head moved in
front. Though she had been well in the public eye
lately on suburban and metropolitan courses, and had
appropriated the Villiers Stakes three weeks ago,
there was great joy in Israel over her arrival. She
went begging at 20 and 25 to 1, while Dame Acre
was backed down to 7 to 2. Why this should have
been so no man knoweth.
The betting on this race turned upside down. La
Steppe had been backed during the week, but was
struck out on the course, and Redfern promptlv
shortened from 5 to 2 to 2 to 1. But the public
didn’t know much about Redfern, and went after
Dame Acre at from B’s to 3’s and Quinn’s Post at
12 s to 7’s, the result being that Ilcey, who at an
early stage of the proceedings adopted a conservative
attitude about the high-priced English nag (taking
6 to 4 from place-bettors), was later on frantically
yelling for custom at sto 1. Had she remained
in the race La Steppe would probably have started
at a very short price. Why she was left in until the
eleventh hour and then withdrawn was not explained.
Even if it had been the chances are that it wouldn’t
have made the people who rushed the early doors feel
any more cheerful.
The best performances of the day were done in the
Cooper colors, Colugo winning the w.f.a. Centenary
Stakes from end to end with Bst. 51b. in lrnin. 39f
secs., and First Principle annexing the Welter with
lOst. 21b. In the first of these events there was a field of
only four. Woorak was not produced. Colugo easily
held his place at the finish against a challenge from
’the one-time boom, the imported Bombita, who in
getting within a length of the winner did about the
best he has been guilty of to date. But -First Prin-
ciple had a field of 16 to contend with. He was
tiring at the end, and the crowd that had taken 7 to 4
felt glad the post was not another 50 yards away.
. * * x- *
Wedding Day has been a gold-mine to
iSydney bookies. Since December 10 she has won
1 the Moorefield Flying, the Villiers and the Chal-
i lenge, starting each time at a long figure. Hardly
■moi'e than a dozen people backed her on Saturday,
‘and the profit to the bags was peautiful! When Ike
thinks of what might have been done to him if a
i punter with a long head and a bold heart had been
lout for scalps with this mare, he feels as if there
was a block of ice on his spine. Wedding Day is held
on lease.by her trainer, Mark Thompson, and a sport
j disguised as “A. Trevelyan.” Unless they make
, another arrangement the lady goes back to her owner
| next week. _ She was bred at the Wambo Stud, and
:is by Antonio (imp.) from Wedding Present (imp.)
Iby Trenton. A little dandy.
* * * *
Whatever may be the matter generally
there is no doubt about it that when lie is good
the Australian nag is good. Than First Principle,
a winner at Randwick last week, there is probably
no _ better weight-carrier, in the Commonwealth to-
day. Malstei- and Field” Rose nicked well tog-ether,
and the pair have- been responsible for the produc-
tion of several good gallopers.
Felix Booth, who is uncle of Sam Hordern
and other parties of that name, lately took to racing,
and for a new owner has had great success. On
Saturday, at the A.J.C. meeting, his nag Quarale was
sent out a red-hot favorite for the January Handicap,
one mile and a quarter, and duly landed the goods.
Quarale is a five-year-old, and is more than useful.
Within the last few months he has taken Menangle
Park Cup, a mile race at Randwick, and the event
he secured on Saturday. It might be mentioned that
Quarale helped jockey L. A. Walker to land three
winners during the day.
Should the owner of Satin Bird contem-
plate changing the colt’s name, Consistencv would
be an appropriate label. Satin Bird lias ran Run-
times on Randwick recently, and on each occasion has
been .placed. Consequently nobody begrudged him a
win in the A.J.C. Trial Stakes, in which he had to
be hard ridden to beat the much-boomed Carine, a
full sister to First Principle. Safin Bird is bv
Malster from Love Graft, and is owned bv T. Long*
worth, who races under the name of W. T. Nowlan,
and is father of Bill, the Australian champion swim-
mer, at present serving in France, and Dick, the
boy who caused a stir a week or two back by
swimming a hundred yards in something under the
minute.
* * * •*
“Stinger”: The scratching of La Steppe
for the Challenge Stakes on Saturday left a nasty
taste in the mouth of one big punter. After seeing
the mare work one day last week, this backer of
horses, who invests in three figures, planked a hatful
on her and proceeded to shake hands with himself on
what was coining. I am not saying that it was
because of this that La Steppe was eliminated, but
the people behind the mare would have been in-
finitely more popular had they relieved her of the
engagement earlier. When she appeared in the list of
acceptors two days before the race the small fry
went bbzzing round to do their bit. Tliev did it too
Through some bizarre twist in the skein,
the business of tote-installation in N. S. Wales is
in the hands of Minister for Public Instruction
James;' who turns lightly from problems connected
with bursaries and parsing to the job of fixing the
mechanical odds-merchant in position. Of course
James knows all about it, and when he went down
to the Speck the other day and saw some machines
being operated he came back with a story of the
simplicity of the business and how a man registered
the investments on an implement that seemed to
be composed of “revolving jam tins.’’ Well, the
revolving jam-tin tote agitated by hand may be
right enough for use at Bungamunga but would be
about as suitable to Sydney racecourses as a refresh-
ment-room stocked with a sandwich and two bottles
of lemonade. For the small country meetings an
implement can be delivered on the ground in a
cart, and three people can handle the investments and
everything else. At Randwick the provision has
to be made for accommodating the demands of a
crowd that, would knock the primitive apparatus
out of action in five minutes, and it must meet the
rush quickly and accurately. Further, it will have
to be on principles that are absolutely watertight,
for some queer things happen occasionally if they
are not. There is one point James ought not to
forget in drafting his regulations for use of the
machine-—that the Tote should be automatically
locked five minutes before the start of every race.
There are solemn reasons for this.
“Scot” : Of course it is preposterous for
the A.J.C. not to look after Ikey’s financial position.
If a citizen makes a bet on the Randwick course
with a licensed odds-merchant, be does so on an
implied contract with the A.J.C. that if he wins the
bag will pay. Something more than a moral obliga
tion rests on the club in this matter, and it strikes
me that if the fielders were as cute as they think
they are they would make the A.J.C. look after the
public interest. Another thing the club ought to
take notice of is the frequency with which certain
individuals profess to be “full” or to have “no money
for ’im” when invited to name a price for a par-
ticular horse. The excuse may be dinkum some-
times, of course. But sometimes it isn’t —and on
those occasions the people who license the operator
ought to be holding an inquest. The tote never
refuses cash because it knows something. It knows
nothing.
* * * *
“Mujik”: Racing results, the anxiety of
breeders to secure English sires, the purchase of
horses in the Cold Country, the opinions of trainers
and handicappers—all these form a mass of evidence
relating to the standard of thoroughbreds to which
there is no answer. The English horse is the best and
there is no get-away from it. But what about it?
Obviously it is merely futile to penalise the English
horse in races and still more foolish to shut him out.
that would only leave the local nag going from
bad to worse. There must be a cause for the deterio-
ration of the Australian horse, and it should be the
business of someone or other to get down to the
roots of it. Meanwhile one certain thing is that the
falling away in the quality of the racehorse is being
followed by the production of a poor crop of ordinary
mokes. Horses that have lost any vitality they ever
had——weeds, squibs and rogues—are being bought up
every year for use as station stallions. ‘ The defect,
wherever it may be, is far reaching and raises ques-
tions coming well within the region of Parliamentary
action. If breeders will do nothing the politicians
will have to do something; for what is happening
to the Australian horse is a shame. There is a
national issue at stake here, and in most other coun-
tries it is taken notice of.
* * * »
The Maoriland mare Desert Gold goes on
her conquering way and seems to like it more than
ever. The Waterloo Stakes at Wellington were won
on Saturday, and the lady’s brother, Egypt, took
the second-money, just to keep the cash in the
iamily. Owner Lowry’s anxiety to let the mare go
through without a beating will, it is understood,
keep him from offering a trip to Australia in the
autumn. Of course, there are any number of Maori-
landers who reckon Desert Gold would clean up Aus-
tarlia’s best easily. Perhaps she would. But Lowry
ought to know fairly well, and it looks as if he
reckoned there are risks.
* * * *
Henry Gaisford, who died the other
day, had a long - and honorable connection with the
turf _ in Maoriland—a quiet and unostentatious con-
nection, too, though he was a man of much wealth.
He was one of the old-time Ilawkes Bay squatters
and the king-pin of the Waipukurau Racing Club,
which in its day was some pumpkins. To win the
Waipukurau Handicap was the great ambition of
the wool-kings thereabouts, and every year a nag
was reserved by big racing men like Ormond and
Russell and old “Bill” Douglas and Spencer Gollan
to g’o in pursuit of a prize thev held in as much
esteem as the C.J.C. Derby. But the glories of
Waipukurau have departed. Gaisford was a winner
there many a time with horses of his own breeding,
but the later race of punters knew him not, for his
ways were not theirs. And perhaps at bottom he
derived more enjoyment from a hunt than a race
meeting, and would as soon have bred a prize ram
as a Cup winner. He was 75.
* * * *
The American boxer Coyle, having
knocked his innards out of tune with ice-creams,,
had to lay up for repairs instead of joining Tommy
Uren in a duet at Sydney Stadium on Saturday.
Fritz Holland filled the breach at a catehweight con-
test, and after a scuffling, clinching disturbance got
the verdict; whereon Arthur Scott, the referee, was
solemnly upbraided for. making a bloomer. Well,
this page doesn’t know about that. If Uren didn’t
deserve to lose he certainly did not deserve to win.
It was a poor display altogether, but as the thing
went Fritz showed the greater skill. It strikes the
writer that Uren will have to brush up a bit, or he
won’t hold those championships very long- unless a
moratorium happens.
It was Harry Stone and Fred Kay at the
Stadium by the Yarra on Saturday. These two make
a weird mixture. Henry is the better jumper and
the more willing puncher, but Frederick the Awk-
ward is the better boxer, and when peace was
declared by effluxion of time the long ’un was blessed
by the referee.
Bobby Graham, late amateur flyweight
champion of Bananaland, and George Taylor’s little
brother Jimmy were let loose at Brisbane on Satur-
day with instructions to stiffen one another. The
disaster was put off; but they presented 20 rounds
of high-quality baulk, biff and back-away. Father
Marre couldn't decide either way. And in that he
wasn't far out.
Jack Johnson is down on his uppers at
last—in Spain—and according to cabled reports will
“probably become a bull-fighter.” If the obese darky
stays where he is lie is more likely to become the
menial who enters the ring after the toreador has
slain the infuriated he-cow, and seizing the carcase
by its limp, unrebellious tail, drags the meat away
'towards the local restaurant. Johnson bereft of his
golden teeth, his motor and swank and punch, dream-
ing of his concubines and their diamonds, and pull-
ing defunct bulls about by the rudder, would seem
to be a living reminder of what can happen when
all that glitters has been sold.
**• * *
“Court” Oakes still retains the champion-
ship of Tassy despite advancing years and 11
kids. Oakes’s duties as rano-er for the Cascade
Brewery Co. keeps him in permanent good nick, and
his teetotal habits have not seriously undermined his
constitution.
COURT OAKES, Resident Champion of
Tasmania.
Carfax” : Excuse me, I didn’t sing a song
about walking 40 miles, as alleged by “Wal” (B.
18/1/T7). 1 merely remarked that to do the journey
by boot in a day is a big thing. And I say it
again—in spite of this person’s blither about the
“10,710 Billjims in N. S. Wales who could trot over
40 miles in 24 hours on about two tills of the
pipe.” Some men can do a 40 miles’ journey on
foot in 24 hours, I know, but the number is limited
to a few very exceptional individuals, and the num-
ber of times they have done it is mighty small.
Vague yarns prove nothing. As for the old party
who crossed the South Island of M.L. from coast
to coast in 24 days and on the afternoon of arrival
swept the programme at a sports meeting, all of
which is narrated by “S.R.” (B. 18/1/’l7), permit
me to salute this valiant romancer. In the early
’7o’s it took Cassidy’s coaches three days to go
from Hokitika to Christchurch. The journey is in
part over high, broken country, and in those times
there were many unbridged rivers to ford. But this
chap did the 167 miles per boot in 21 days, “re-
freshed himself with a swim in the lagoon,” and then
annexed the mile run and all the rest of it. You
bet your life he did. A man who after training for
the job could on a prepared track, under cover, break
10 hours for 65 miles would be a world’s champion.
The Chch-Hokitika journey knocks that into a cocked
hat. But, as 1 said before, I don’t want to make
nasty remarks about anyone.
“Vic”: The talk about trips per boot
reminds me. I saw a mob of the London-Scottisli
Territorials (about 100) start on a walk to Brigh-
ton from London one Saturday night a few months
before war was declared. They left the metropolis
at 7 p.m. and arrived in Brighton, 52J miles away,
at 10 a.m. They were 17 hours on the road. Not
one of the mob had fallen out. The walk was
undertaken to beat the record of a Rifle Regiment.
men had trained only in their spare time.
Most of them sweated in city banks and offices
during the week.
“Cleiclo”: The remarks of “Spot” (B.
11/1/’l7) about physical-culture in its relation to
the training of athletes in general and pugs in
particular suggest that he is talking through his
hat. I have yet to hear of any proved system of
•training that does not embrace physical-culture.
Intelligently indulged in, it makes the weak man
strong, and the strong man stronger. Likewise the
slow man quick and the quick man quicker. To
boxers it increases the defensive fibrous tissues,
notably the muscles, which conceal the downstairs
and commissariat departments. It is safe to give a
written guarantee, with your life as forfeit, that
physical-culture will improve the strength, quick-
ness, punching power and endurance of any devotee
of the slugging game. Tf “Spot” modifies his asser-
tions and says that certain branches of physical-
culture are not advisable for an athlete requiring a
high degree of speed, he will be nearer the truth.
Swimmers generally are not in need of additional
exercises, although in the “off” season any time and
trouble expended on the development of those large
back muscles that bulge out under the arms will be
well repaid by increased swimming strength. Finally
there is no need to wait until the war is over to
hear what Georges Carpentier has to say. He has
already said it in his book.
“M.P.A.”: Some sound commonsense is
dealt by “Scot” (8.. 18/1/’l7) about training
methods and the ruin of young athletes by lunatic
theories and rule-of-thumb methods. In a good
many years of practical experience amongst athletes
of all classes—peds., boxers, wrestlers, swimmers,
cyclists, weight-lifters and ’bailers —I have been
firmly convinced that 90 per cent, of the so-called
trainers of athletes are mere rubbers-down. I have
watched men who knew no more of anatomy than of
Sanskrit directing the operations of young athletes in
training. It matters not whether a man is a ped.,
cyclist or swimmer, it is absolutely necessary that he
should be treated according to his build and tem-
perament. A trainer should be to an athlete what a
doctor is to a patient. If a trainer has three or four
men under his care, each man should be
a case and be given the work suited to his
build, just as the medico treats several persons
according to their different complaints. I was aston-
ished on one occasion to read in the Melbourne Argus
a column telling a schoolboy how to train for a foot-
race. The fatal mistake in handling schoolboys is to
train them at all. They do not require training, in
the sense that athletes understand the term. They
merely need practice under the careful eye of an
experienced sports master. If a young athlete has
no “athletic father” to guide him, so to speak, he
is invariably at the mercy of a lot of mugs, or he
may catch the eye of an artful old dodger who finds
him useful as a “try-out horse.” If he be left alone
to follow his own inclinations on the track he often
gets carried away by his feelings at the time, and
overdoes the work. It is so easy to over-do one’s
training when one feels in the real pink of condition.
At that stage the advice of the wise-head is most
essential. Take, for instance, the different types of
runners. Dad Wheatley, a thin slab of a ped. and a
great natural runner to boot, was defeated in his
day by Dr. Harvey Sutton, a stout athlete of quite
13st. The pair met in an Australian championship
over half- and one-mile flat. Sutton won one race
from the back and t’other from the front. Sutton
required work to get right. Wheatley just pottered
about. If Wheatley and Sutton had prepared on
rule-of-thumb lines, Sutton would have won, no
doubt, but Wheatley would have broken down. The
success of Yank athletes in all branches of athletics
is that competent coaches direct operations and each
trainee is a special ease. Lots of theories have been
advanced regarding the ways and means of getting
into form, but nothing outside the principle of run-
ning for runners, swimming for swimmers, boxing for
boxers is any good. Men like Geo. Hackenschmidt
lift an odd weight or two for arm work, but wrestle
’emselves into nick. For any training in the world
walking will fit in admirably. It is the one exercise
that meets every case.
* ■* * *
Ward Prentice’s scoop of five wickets for
VO against N. Sydney on Saturday established his -
claim to be styled an all-rounder. Years ago he was
one of Ma State’s finest wicket-keepers; later, he
specialised in batting; nowadays he reaps his harvest
with the ball. Prentice will fill Carter's place in
the Anniversary Day patriotic match at Sydney this
week-end. In the cold weather, Prentice is addicted
to Rugby, and tripped away with the “Wallabies”
in 1908-9.
* * # *
A youngster with an abnormal appetite
for wickets in Sydney premiership cricket is F.
Dodds, of Paddington 111., who in a recent match
against Petersham IV. took 14 for 16 runs!
* * * #
Eighteen-year-old Down, who plays for
Carlton, is coming on and looks like turning into
the kind of '"■>ckcter Vic. has been limiting for. On
Saturday against ’Roy he amassed 166 in three hours,
and was going strong when stumps were drawn. He
smote 15 fours and gave no chances. He is not the
accomplished performer that Trumper was at 18, but
he has a fine variety of strokes to make good with.
There is a young bowler coming on, too, in the next
paddock—Hood, of Melbourne. He got four St.
Hilda wickets on Saturday—all clean bowled.
* *• * * "
“Over” : Cricketer Charley Lawrence, who
died the other day, came to this country in 1862
as a member of Stephenson's first All England XT
and stayed here as a cricket coach ; later he was a
railway employee, and finally, when 60 years old,
again took on the job of coach, this time to the
M.C.C. Charley was the only white man in the
alio, team which went to the Bull country in 1868.
The team was made up of the Binghi cricketing
talent in the Glenelg, Oasterton and Coleraine dis-
tricts, and contained at least two notable performers
—Mullagli and Cuzin. Mullagh was an all-round
cricketer, Ids chief defect being typical Binghi lazi-
ness. He reduced the making of boundary hits to
a fine art, chiefly, it is said, because he did not have
to run for them. During the tour Lawrence had his
hands full. Although Binghi was sent to bed early
every night to save him from Bull hospitality, he
mostly escaped by the window' and the nearest water-
pipe, and Charley w'as kept busy rounding him up
or disentangling him from trouble. Tw'O black
brothers—Sundown and Jim Crow —had to be inva-
lided home, and King Cole died during the tour.
Fanny Durack’s habit of .annexing cham-
pionships in the water is a complaint that only old
age seems likely to cure. In the 150yds. State
Championship, decided at Sydney Municipal Baths on
Saturday, Fanny remained with the field for 50yds.;
then, ringing up “full speed ahead,” she turned the
event into a procession. She finished in lmin. 56sec.,
and the next lady knocked at the door ssec. after-
wards.
* * * *
Walter Bethel, who fathers the scheme
which recently utilised the school vacation to push
Sydney, kids through the elementary stages of swim-
ming, is a lively stalwart of 53. For more than 20
years he has been a figure in Sydney swimming. As
adviser and instructor he helped the wonderful
Barney Kieran towards the top. Harold Hardwick,
Oscar Dickman and a host of others who assisted in
the recent scheme reckon that 1000 youngsters have
been added to the army of swimmers.


*
n
IB
Every Mm and Woman can
have PERFECT HEALTH!
“No matter how much learning you may acquire, no matter
how you may develop your talents, no matter how much
money you may earn, if through ignorance of your own
body you suffer ill-health, and die years before your time,
your education will have been a failure.”
Why be handicapped in life’s battle through ill-health ?
Why suffer needless aches and pains?
Why allow yourself to become run-down, nervy, out-of-sorts,
and liable to contract the various complaints to which
mankind is subject?
Why not become a strong, vigorous and perfectly-healtliy
being, as Nature intended you to be?
Regular and proper exercise, such as I prescribe in my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy. Don’t
think that your case is the exception:—it’s not. You will
find my exercises both beneficial and enjoyable pastime,
You will look forward to the time when you have to do
them, and find the benefits very rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my Course will
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen your
lungs and make you breathe in a natural way.
Mv booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-
Culture,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should
like to send you a copy. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement, and post it to me. I will know
what you mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
567 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
Try My Cigarillos
—the smoke you’re SURE
to enjoy. They are small
cigars of shilling Havana
quality—fine and mild in
flavor and delicious in
aroma.
They are just the
thing for a short
s in o k e—something
between a cigar and
a cigarette, and are
exceptional value.
Made in three sizes,
b u t all O X E
QUALITY.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. ’ 2. 3.
2/6 2/3 2/-
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11/- 10/- 9 /-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for a
copy of my
illustrated cata-
log. It will
interest all
smokers.
g
fdg
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A.M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I
6
"Keep Smiling.
/it other words:
-Shell
cßenzine
BTAINABLE
EVER.YWHEP
(fIPILLfIRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
<?
Nature never intended
a man to be clean-
shaven. The
Moustache is a man’s
natural adornment.
Why not encourage
its growth by the
aid of CAPIL-
LARINE —a genuine
Moustache grower
which has never been known to fail?
Price 10/6 Jar—Post Free.
Craig 8 Aitken, "S&ESV?’
Established over SO years.
Answer the Call of the Great
Outdoors —Go Holidaying on
dfadim
Solo or Side-Car , the Machine Ideal for Australian Roads.
nu
WE
7989
Catalogue “D” with pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd..
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd.
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets,
ADELAIDE :
Eyes & Crowle Ltd..
75-79 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON :
John King & Sons Ltd.
Charles Street.
PERTH : .
Armstrong Cycle and
Motor Agency. Hay St.
-
SSjP 1^
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Jail Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
SMART APPEARANCE!
Their smart and dressy appearance will
probably first attract you to
RIGNEY SHOES.
The extra high quality which will reveal
itself after long wear will also appeal to
your sense of economy.
We illustrate a choice. All-Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike “perfect.”
The famous Paris Last.
Price - - 37/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
df
gfdgfd
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
The Answer <*- Shavin^Question
g
Illustration of
attachment for
GilJettcßlades.
EVERMORE
d
Attachment tor
DurhamDupkx
l Blades.
nr
\
7JJ
as*
v
iilLitiui*
f Dotted >
airows show
DIAGONAL
COMFORT
QUALITY
VALUE
PLEASURE
ASK YOUR
DEALER to
DEMONSTRATE
IT
For Sale through
fgd
out Australasia
IF UNPROCURABLE WRITE TO
BOX 1005 G.P.O SYDNEY BOX H GPO. AUCKLAND NZ.


Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver —healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish —makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, Just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
CHRISTIES
Tk/O
L/NE
fg
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
Ut STRAND
520 GEORGES'" SYDNEY
ZC MONTER ST NEWCASTLE
mm
:
■JAj
Riding Emperors.
W
Our Celebrated “IRONBARK
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, fitted with the “A & S” special
ankle protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbark Brand” on loops.
Price
14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/6 per pair.
Allan# Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Elder, Smith & Co., Limited,
General Merchants, Importers & Exporters.
Special Department for /Vletals and Ores.
Head Office: Adelaide. Branches throughout South Australia, and
at Broken Hill and Wentworth, N.S.W.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: Queensland Building, 84-88 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE : Falmouth Chambers, 117 PITT STREET.
PERTH AGENTS: ELDER, SHENTON & CO., LIMITED.
LONDON OFFICE: “Portland House,” 73 BASINGHALL STREET, E.C.
COMMONWEALTH
df
gdf
g
OF AUSTRALIA.
The Nation’s Savings will save the Nation.
Employees and Wage Earners:
At sl time like tlie present it is your duty to tcike the fullest advantage
of every means of Saving.
Save your Wages and Help your Country.
will buy a WAR BOND, at the rate of £1 deposit and £1 per month
equal to
5/- per weeK
for lO months.
You may obtain and complete your own application form at £1 per month, or
arrange with your Employer at a weekly late.
Every War Bond Helps equip a Soldier.
If you cannot fight you can help provide a fighter.
All information, forms, etc., at any Bank, Savings Bank or Post Office.
Invest in the WAR LOAN.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Applications close Bth February, 1917.
January, 1911.
£lO
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
uncemia
'T'HE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness” and well-being.
Or. Andrew Wilson wrote : —“ Impoverished blood con be made and good
•• by means of Iron ‘ Jello.dsthe most effective and desirable treatment.
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3r
Manufactured only by The Jelloid' Co., 205, City Road, London. England.
'honfOoidiM
few. V ( KvaouneedJdWo y J^^^^
HUDSWELL CLARKE 8 CO.,
:
mm
■
LEEDS
Locos, of all Types.
ONE QUALITY ONLY
TUP RFST
Agent-
J. GERMAN, Engineer, fl rpan House, Moore St., Sydney
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
"personal attention to all consignments.' Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
The Australian Mercantile, Land and
Finance Co., Ltd.: —
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1903.. £5BB Nil £5BB £256,125
1904.. ' 12,135 2i p.C. =£13,000
1905.. 53 259 0 ~ ~ 31,200£20,943 1,110 256,376
1906.. 100 354 74 ~ 39,000 12,394 48,960 305,336
1907.. 1571490 124 ~ ~ 65,001 23,000 69,490 374,826
1908!! 102,933 124 „ „ 65,000 0,68 > 31,253 406,079
1909.. 51,631 124 „ „ 65,000 7,012 385,698
1910.. 78,177 124 ~ ~ 65,000 8,304 4,8/3 390/571
1911.. 189,349 124 ~ 65,000 8,828 115,521 506,092
1912.. 108,824 124 ~ ~ 65,000 22,394 21,430 527,522
1913!! 103,366 15“ „ , K 78,000 27,975 524,912
1914. 177 125.124 ~ ~ 65,000 10,609101 ,5 16 626,428
1915!! 61 [352 10 „ ~ 52,000 30,000 005,780
1916 . 58,051 10 ~ ~ 52,000 100,000 511,831
This is an English co. which had a bad
time 12 or 15 years back and has been rather
nervous about Australia ever since. And the
nervousness increased prior to 1910 when
the Federal Labor party talked so valiantly
that the co. decided to look totvards S.
America. It set up an establishment at
Buenos Aires; but, though it no doubt had
visions once of shifting the bulk of its
interests that way, it is probably more in-
dined than ever to put up with Australia.
The Australian devil has a habit of lashing
his tail in the face of the capitalist and
roaring that it proposes to eat him. The
foreign devil, who hasn’t, yet got the capital-
ist in his power, more cunningly hides his
tail for a while and doesn’t mention any-
thing about his appetite.
The co. was particularly nervous about
the Federal land tax. There was a lot of
talk about bursting up large estates, and
the co. seems to have got the idea that big
stations would have to be cut up and sold
at a pound or so an acre. As a matter of
fact, the Land Tax didn’t reduce the price
of farms, largely, no doubt, because the farm
mostly isn’t taxable. Further, as land within
the agricultural area has been cut up, a
keener demand has set in for grazing country
outside; and that must have suited the
A.M.L. & F., which has always been heavily
interested in the dry country—a fact that
explains the bumpiness of the profits column.
However, taking it all round, though the
co. has suffered now and then a slap in the
eye, it has done remarkably well. Its worst
time was in 1902-3-4, and the table opens
with one of the only two blanks in the dividend
record. For the rest of its life of 5G years
it has more often paid 20 p.c. than anything
else. Its great advantage, apart from the
size of its reserve, which is within a few
pounds of the capital, is that by far the
greater part of its borrowed money is long-
term debenture stock, £1,000,000 carrying 4
p.c. and £lOO,OOO 3 p.c. Any well-managed
co. could make money by lending money on
pastoral securities in Australia so long as
it wasn’t liable to have to suddenly repay
the principal. No co., no matter how well
managed, could escape smash, except by a
miracle, if it lent on that kind of security
money which was liable to be called for in
a time, say, of drought.
In 1914-15 the co. had a dry time, and
last year’s profits look smaller than usual.
But the year’s record was better than it
seems on a mere comparison of profits. First,
the co.’s securities are better. Assets, apart
from advances and properties, were
£1,058,482 as at June, 1915; 12 months
later, by getting in advances, etc., the more
or less "liquid assets had been increased to
£1,379.137, and liabilities, apart from the
debentures, had been reduced from £408,660
to £394,926. Considering the nature and
extent of the assets, the floating debt is
small; and, though there will be the same
old ups and downs, the co.’s prospects con-
tinue rosy. Profits will, .of course, be cut
into by war taxes, for a few years. Last
year (and this,partly explains the shrinkage
in profits) income taxes in England and
elsewhere totalled £46,183 ; in 1915, £34,953 ;
in happy, ignorant 1910 they were only
£7534.
* * * *
There has been talk about a thermo-
electric co. that proposes to treat wolfram
ore from or in N. Queensland. It is high
time Australia did produce some tungsten-
steel products. At present, if steel of that kind
or ferro-tungsten is required, it has to be
imported from Scandinavia ; and a striking
feature is that J. C. Moulden, an Australian,
is consulting engineer to one of the biggest
of these Scandinavian thermo-electric cos.
Australia has the brains and the material,
and yet it doesn’t do the work. What’s
wrong? Is capital too tired, or labor too
hungry and uncertain?
* * * *
The Speck’s latest notion is to put a
hydro-electric power-station in the King
River Gorge, about the most picturesque bit
of wild scenery on the West Coast. The King
has cut through the coast range a canyon
several miles long and in places over 1000
feet deep, all boiling water and cliffs of
black rock, with trees and bushes and
creepers growing in every crack and cranny.
But now it is reckoned that there is a good
site for damming back the water from a
watershed of over 200 square miles, with a
rainfall of anything over- 100 inches, and
that something like 20,000 (some say 40,000)
horse-power can be got there to run the
electrolytic process for treating the Her-
cules-Rosebery ores. 8o the gorge is likely
to be tamed.
Alexander Macdonald seems to have got
hold of something extra in the Kitchener
molybdenite mine, North Queensland. At
70ft. a drive has been put 130 ft. in ore; and
throughout all the development workings
“the bodv has averaged sft., with values
varying from 2 p.c. to 8 p.c. In no case has
a blank been encountered.” A battery and
flotation plant has been installed. The start
wasn’t much of a success, nevertheless in a
brief run 400 tons put through gave six tons
18cwt. concentrates, 93 p.c. pure, and it is
alleged a clean tailing has now been achieved-


u
0
i
/O
>}
1
w
fe>
k.
//4
h>
**
C
m
o
IPW
PAINTERS, Kelp to make Australia prosperous by using' Megg'itt's Linseed Oil,
made by good Australian Workmen at Parramatta,
For full particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne,
Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers, Parramatta, n.s.w.


7>
Beauty
3
Good Health and Beauty
go Hand in Hand
Beauty is the outward sign of good health. Good
health is the bodily necessity for beauty.
Not only those who possess classical features are
beautiful. Some women have possessed a feature,
mouth nose or eyes, that was not perfect, and
yet were considered beautiful. Why? Because
they were healthy looking, their skin was clear,
their eyes were bright and their brain Was active.
Fishers
Beauty Pills
For the Liver
attain this result by removing impurities from the
blood, promoting the flow of bile, cleansing the
tongue, relieving constipation and headache.
For men who eat and drink too much, they are
unequalled. Always ask for Fishers Liver Pills.
All chemists and stores, 1/« per bottle
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
F.49.8P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en
dorsed by the lead-
ing- Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
K.
i
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mear'c Ear Phonp many times as efficient
inealA Lai riiwne and powerful as the olf]
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booldet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, ROCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON § CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VARICOSE VEINS,
WEAK LEGS AND JOINTS.
THE VAROX SUPPORT is an Entirely
New Method of dealing with Varicose
Veins and any Leg Weakness. Instant
Relief is obtained, together with Perfect
Ease and Comfort.
'JJK! ->i
It is a laced
appliance,
which gives
equaiity of
pressure at
every point,
and can be
regulated
to the com-
fort of
wearer. It
always
keeps in po-
sition, can
be easily
put on and
taken off.
Will last for years.
dfg
Catalogue and Self-Measurement Chart
Posted Free on Application.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sufferers
from
Goitre
will read with
interest what a
New Zealand Cler-
gyman writes about
Doig’s Goitre
Treatment
“lam thankful to
say that after using
your Goitre treat-
ment my Goitre is
now quite cured. I have recommended
it to several of my friends and I hope
they will give it a trial as it cannot be
too highly praised.” (Original letter
may he seen on application.)
Full Particulars Post Free on application to
A. DOIG (Australia) LTD.
Manufacturing Chemists
197 P LambtonQuay, Wellington' N.Z.
Bankers: Bank of F.Z.
jßosfocJL
HIGH day and holiday shoes, for wear on
extra-special occasions with the extra-
special gown, ought, one feels, to have
something distinctive about them, some-
thing that lifts them above the shoes for every-
day wear and tear. It is this distinctive, this
different look, that makes the charm of the most
elegant shoes in the Bostock range, the delightful
little black satin shoe here illustrated, for ex-
ample. One has only to glance at the picture to see
that here is something very smart and desirable.
Then think of it on, showing daintily, captivat-
ingly, beneath the flounced or scalloped hem of
the summer gown. Nothing could be more appro-
priate or more charming. And with all its
daintiness and piquancy, it is the most comfortable
and well-fitting of shoes, as indeed are all those
short-fronted styles, and will suit most women,
giving that ease, lightness and coolness which the
Australian climate requires.
Bostoek No.
P 64 14
£ 1
/
/-
9
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
827
Bostock shoes are unmistakable. The name is on
every pair, and they are sold at all leading stores.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK’S DRY GLEANER BLOCKS
for dry cleaning white and colored footwear, canvas and' suede shoes, and cloth-
topped boots, has no equal.
It is easily applied, does not rub off, and is satisfactory in every way.
Colors-White, Black, Brown, Champagne, Buff, Light and Dark
Grey, and Khaki. PRICE 6d. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
TRIED & TRUSTED
“Many are the Razors I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others. Join
the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM”
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/G.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
AU the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted.
The “PLUM”
Razor.
12
lO
1
701-
701-
Wristlet Watches
For Ladies and Gentlemen
THE “ELGIN” LEVER is a Reliable Timekeeper. It
has a Seven Jewel Compensation Balance, Highly-Gilt Three-
quarter plate Movement, Radium Hands anil Figures, in
Strong, Sterling Silver Case.
Price £3/10/-
Covered Strap supplied if required.
*5
C 6691. —Lady’s Sterling Silver and Enamel
High-grade Lever Watch, on Leather Strap. Fully
jewelled. Price 45/-
Write for otar New Catalogue.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Strand Corner, Ql2, Georg'e St., SYDNEY.
-- TiCSI
SF.
V.*
L%
• : #*C.
c- :
•-si
I„;J;.V.-:
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in ibis Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which you
are interested and full particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
NAM E ; ADDRESS........
CLASS OF LAND
To Director. Intelligence a Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
I Vo notice {except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.L.D.: Thanks: but it looks too much
like helping ourselves to the butter.... M.M.T.: No:
the man who wrote it sent an official report to con-
firm the story.... Viti: Thanks: but she’s been listed
already... .Bellerive: Still the old reliable: —
FOUR PLAY.
Within a garden’s green
Near melbourne town,
An elderly man was
Foully struck down
Upon the gravel walk
Where he’d fell with a thud,
Outstretched he lay
Bespattered with blood.
For robbery his grim
And treacherous foe
Had waited and watched
To strike the blow.
Within the doleful morgue
A mother and son
Mourned by the slab of
The murdered one.
~. . Hughesdistruster: Like some proof of it....
Medicus: We’ve brought similar cases under notice
and asked what could be done and been told “Noth-
ing” ... .R.C.N.: What does “Who fell from despot’s
thrall to keep us free” mean? J. 11.: Some points
in “Mentor” and “Aspirant” ; but you use too many
words.... Ativa: A drag to get to the point and a
small point when you get there. Don’t use those
set phrases. “Heralds the approach,” “long-wislfed-
icr,” “epoch-making”—all in the first six lines....
Lyttle: Very lumpy verse.... Sphinx: Not nearly up.
. ...E.0.: “Contract” not our style. “Sacrifice”
not well enough done. . . .R.E.F.H.: Cheer up. It
isn’t as dismal as all that.... vEsepli: Not enough
skill, but some originality.... G.G.: “Natdre” is
hoppy. ... N.C.: When did you read anything like
that in this paper? Charlie Sausage: N 0......
Bevem: Too crude... .A.L.P.: Verse very p00r....
Kole: Yarn doesn’t move... .E.S.E.: Not in that
form. .. . J.K.: The lamest ice-cream we ever met.
The giddy things generally indulge in song and
dance.... Sapper: Sorry ; not enough interest....
Warradulla : Rather commonplace. .. .H.P.G.: Misses.
.. . . A.T.M.W.: Fair verse, but without purpose,
passion or originality... . 0.M.M.: Absolutely de-
cline to “build a better heaven” in this sort of
weather. The mere thought of building makes us
faint... .R.E.W.: It’s a mechanical yarn told at
great length. A thing like that-should move sud-
denly and brightly. .. .W.J.C.: Fair. Try again....
L.G.: “Carnival” riots with the metre; but her own
notions of joy are largely those of the Methodist
class-meeting. ... R.S.T.: Sounds like a vaudeville
artist trying to be domesticated... .J. 11.: Why must
you write on two sides of the paper? Verse rotten.. .
J.P.K.: He isn’t necessarily the “bravest man” be-
cause he has the worst job. .. . Refra: Verse very
bad.... C.L.: “The Scandal” contains a good idea.
Improve the verse. .. .S.D.: Sorry, you seem to have
no verse sense... .N.K.: Well, drink honey out of
the flowers if you want to. .. . J.A.K.: Bad rhymes,
thin thought.... S.L.: A fine tribute to both: —
She makes Bill socks, the best, I ween,
That make him smile (not the Hun Bill, her Bill, I
mean).
Then Bill gets full of pluck and worries the Germs.
And hacks them about just like you do worms.
Bill’s girl works in the city, too,
Like Bill did when the skies were blue.
In this war, if Bill and bis girl haven’t done their
share
I’ll do my mit! That’s blank-well dinkum square.
. ...Namron: Horrible.... Rosella: Yours isn’t a
“poet’s song.”. .. .S.L.: Don’t like “Paradise.”....
W.H.L.: No good. . . .M.N.: Ditto. .. .Jimmy Fanat-
tie: Thin idea worked to death. .. .C.1.L.: Bad
handwriting remarks didn’t refer to you. Can’t
trace copy.... Lord Toothpick: Horror gone to the
destructor.... H.W.J.: Good material badly handled.
....Orion: “Song Delayed” doesn’t quite get there.
, .Byralee: Slight and bumpy. . . .T.T. Tee: Not amus-
ing. .. .D. 5.11.: Not enough in it, but well done....
A. 8.: No skill... .Ma Da: You might sell the story
elsewhere... .H.M.: Some grim power. .. .S.F.: No
use... .Willie: You’re right. It is crude.... Drys-
dale: Verse waddles. Suggestions don’t fit....
J.L.8.: Not up... .Houlahan: No such competition
was held on the Red Page.... Split-link: Winning
Red Page toast does not necessarily imply that Aus-
tralia can’t make and use the powder when it’s
necessary for her to keep her complexion white.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.A.K.: Kangaroo with donkey’s head and rat’s
body forwarded to Museum. .. .C.N.11.: Some promise
in it... .R.E.C.: Unconvincing scratches... .Stan C.:
Just 11 labels too many on your drawing. The title
is the place for letterpress.... Ray M.: Misses....
A.D.: Take it away !. .. .E.G.P.: You are a poor
carpenter.... Roderigo: Promising; but still a long
way from print... .K.W.G.: Why spoil such a pretty
signature *with so wretched a drawing?... .R.F.C.:
Poor attempt at both drawing and humor. .. .A.E.S.:
There’s no doubt about the originality of the sketch.
But why guarantee the joke ?. .. . Sonno : Bad—
every way. ...11.W.8.: Ditto, most ways. . . .Billy Iv.:
Are the girls of Westralia really like that?....
Nix: Duly committed.... A.V.B. : Your alleged Bill-
jim needs a shave, too.
f
“OThimerty’s” fragment of history :
The most interesting part of the diary of “Bobby”
Knopwood, first chaplain in Vandemonia, who came
with Collins in 1803, is that which relates the stay
of the ship Calcutta at Rio de Janeiro. She had
been knocked about in a storm, and the expedition
was held up for three weeks while she refitted. Knop-
wood didn’t mind. He made many friends ashore,
especially a young lady boarder, Antonia Januaria
by name, who was being instructed at the Convent
de Ajuda. Her only regret was that he was a heretic.
Knopwood’s . entry, for Sunday, July 10, states
that he attended Mass in the morning, and then
visited “the charming Antonia.” He dined at the
hotel, and saw 4000 negroes dance in the afternoon.
In the evening he went to the theatre to see a play
called “The Poor Soldier.” The last Rio entry in
his diary is mournful: “Visited the convent for the
last time. Saw Antonia at five, and we took leave
of one another with regret. Vale;”- Knopwood held
the chaplaincy for 20 years and winked most of the
time. He was succeeded by William P>edford, and
then the winking stopped. Bedford’s heaviest guns were
turned against the highest officials; and as a result
of the bombardment Governor Arthur issued an order
that the officials should marry the women who were
the mothers of their children or take the sack. Chap-
lain Bedford was very busy for a while reading the
marriage service for men who cursed him all the
Way from “dearly beloved” to the benediction.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
V-T! : ~ • •-- •>'
./fIKSH
::■'■■ ■■•■•' „ V j* r
mmm
" <s*|
IPH® ipHpn#c
•.:*>“' •■/• .-" A’'/,'*-: t . A ?.:># >»' ; ‘
SwA -
rf it
a% \ v,
■| H t "'■
•| 4 >-, r^>-
V. !''.?■'¥
->- M% An Ji’>
k \ :tl h tteti
,-v t| - : v
i XV
s »« « {>
T ? vS t«)WPh. % :.- .•
. : * J,)S ;< T v * ~^r/ i '' i }^<- , ‘* %*
»•■ *-1 \
• „ “•- s!’,
A ;? \£
/.\ &V* l-
ift ? * ?.
,<T c.■ >• ’J
v?*»-V./ . „
'.-Axf"
d\ Mil
„ I\«|?ll
: ,4 m%-:M
maM
***** ■ 'fp&
;; '*'. '-i>' X/ Vtjj
&^p?M
J§«
I# m
■sk §t
v&vi,
s-j® ( | as.
iu.Mp
'# l S V* ; ■••'^l
* i " :. tt /'
rft •l l" ---r AV"
A#
iff*
ii|i
pst
im
g lites*
I SHI
sisMr'
it
§Vjjf|||
l:ttf
98
„ i,
it '4wk^~
L',X
\
:• v :
§4&i
; /■ \
uA-
: : 't'"f'-tt
- - : - r -' \‘-'X-;
»;-.• .Xfc^isSS 4 .-- ••* K -vS?,’,v-«- 1
. - L-. V.
stmm
S&p-ss
-.. X;.
\ r ft
l r #l ?X I n iXs# 1 #
■fl! f
'tSs» v.-.-C. ,T.- a..;®} iS&K S'-.
I It s t
5S til # . ,:■
f r te
OriEk ~y
66
Cobra,” Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Feeds the giant
Siege-guns too.
o o
H ere are shells
For ev’rv Hun,
And the Cobras
Think it fun
Just to dump them
In the truck
With a cheery
“Well —here’s luck
But the Cobra
Doqt veils, “Oh!
“Please don’t polish
Off my toe!”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
-Ww and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with \\ ireless Telegraphy. CaMnes-de-
•Jjtixe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as fallows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
*ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 27.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 31.
Leaves Sydney, Feb. 3.
BLTRWAH (Cargo only).
Leaves Melbourne, Feb. 6.
Leaves Svdney, Feb. 10.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. andW.A. ports)
*Passengers only.
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Feb. 10.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PFtlp, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
'Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) .. £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND £85,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 TlireadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECIORS Mark Siieldon, Esq., Chairman:
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M, C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd, Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—AY. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, C-anada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£2,000,000 0 0
. . 1,875,000 0 0
• • 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. IT. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
General Manager : H. TI. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of ||eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
750,000
1,000,000
500,000
2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THR LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction f' 1 * ®, AN prfAT 'IA K
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKh.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
AROUND the WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.’’
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in tile Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and It.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.’’
GLORIdUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect. _
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
few
m
BANK
OF NFW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,705,320
£2,725,000
£3,705,320
£10,135,640
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund \V. Fosbery, (J.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq. ; W. H. Palmei', Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office —29 Threadneedie St , E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
J. RTTSSFLL FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commonwealth
df
JM ot ßustra!ta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking; Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. LetteVs of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth. United' Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
1 /-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 A & en c j es at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at 9°/
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
Deputy Governor, j u „ e , 1916 DENISOX MILLER, Governor
BANKING SUGGESTIONS.
Having a Savings Bank account is one of the best possible incentives to saving-. If you have
one started, keep it going. If you have not yet opened one, come into this Bank at your earliest
convenience and do so. Deposits are accepted from Is. upwards.
This Bank offers every facility for Saving as well as Government Guarantee
for the security of your money.
132 Branches in the City of Sydney, principal Suburbs and Country Towns, and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution—Head Office, 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank that pays 3} per cent, interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULP PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIM BO OLA, Friday,
Feb. 9 and Mar. 9.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLB
And Ports North to Cairns. J ]
MORIALTA, Jan. 27.
RUPARA, Feb. 3.
PARINGA, Feb. 10.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject -to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YI'IIJ. & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STItE IST, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Wimmera,”
- "Ulimaroa,” “Victoria.”
“Riverina,” “Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction,
f itted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
- and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
'l’Ply : —O CE AN IC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services, between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
I,urge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
JHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
1' WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
-teamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
Yhe slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S - urf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rogea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co., Ltd. .Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly remove! the effects of Sunscorch>
oxvananj
w*
BROODY HENS for 12/0.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.


Who goes there !!
on
MICHELINS
Gets there
and back
without tyre trouble.
X v
MICHELIN has made great efforts to
keep up supplies during the War, and
can give regular deliveries, although
supplying the Allied Governments
with their requirements.
MICHELIN is helping the Allies with
Tyres, Aeroplanes, Shells, etc.
MICHELINS
(the famous French tyres)
THE BEST, therefore
THE MOST ECONOMICAL.
MICHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained at ail the leading garages.
18. A. 1617
m
THE FAMOUS
AMERICA'S SWIOARO FOURCYCU EHGIRI
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
Made by Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
See one of these engines working'.
It will convince you; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of these qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OR CALL AT
Motor Showrooms: 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Lake Breeze Motor
gfd
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
54 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
*4
R e * n jfit to ’ 1
AUTOLOADING
• SHOTGUNS*
For field shooting under any
conditions of wind or weather,
tLe Remington Autoloading Shot-
gun is a thoroughbred.
It, lias grace and beauty m its
* lines and is mechanically correct. It
places at your command five skots without re-loading, which
may be fired witb great rapidity or deliberately, as you may wish.
Constructedundertbe Browning Patents in seven grades and with
Solid Breecb—Hammerless—Easily Detachable Barrel.
At Your Dealer's
THE REMINGTON ARMS UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
New York London
D. D. Bryant, Manager for Australia, G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
g
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
qnN
TV
1
DO
a»a.aama«
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New * oveltv
Catalog—lT’S FREE,
fd
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
Ii
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.
708-740 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
RUDYARD KIPLING.
Sea Warfare
(Including The Fringes of the
Fleet, Tales of “The Trade,”
Destroyers at Jutland). Cloth
ss. net. Also Dominions
Edition, 3s. 6d.
THE EMPIRE AND THE FUTURE.
A Series of Imperial Studies Lectures
delivered in the University of Lon-
don, King’s College. 2s. net.
Contents. —Prefatory Note. By A. P.
Newton, D.Litt. —Introduction. By A. D. Steel-
Maitland, M.P. —The Universities and the War.
By M. E. Sadler, C.B.—Empire and Democracy.
By Sir Charles P. Lucas, K.C.B.—lmperial
Administration. By H. A. L. Fisher, M.A. —
The People and the Duties of Empire. By A.
L. Smith, M.A. —Commonwealth and Empire.
By P. IT. Kerr, M.A. —The Duty of the' Empire
to the World. By G. R. Parkin, C.M.G.
THE FOUNDATION & GROWTH
OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE. Bv
JAMES A. WILLIAMSON. With
Maps, 2/6.
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
FRUIT-GATHERING. Poems by Sir
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. (A
Sequel to Gitanjali.) 4s. 6d. net.
HUNGRY STONES, AND OTHER
STORIES. By Sir RABINDRA-
NATH TAGORE. Translated from
the original Bengali by- various
writers. ss. net.
TN FAR NORTH-EAST SIBERIA.
By I. W. SHKLOVSKY (Dioneo).
Translated by L. Edwards and A.
Shltlovsky. With Illustrations. Bs.
6d. net.
THE PROBLEM OF PERSON-
ALITY. A Critical and Constructive
Study in the Light of Recent Thought.
By ERNEST NORTIICROFT MER-
RINGTON, M.A. (Sydney), Lec-
turer in Philosophy, University of
Sydney, 1907-9. ss.
The Church Family Newspaper: “The work
is a valuable contribution to philosophic and so
to religious thought.”
NATURE AND ADVENTURE IN
AUSTRALASIA. For Boys and
Girls. By JANE ADA FLETCHER
Illustrated. Is. (id.
I SOMETIMES THINK. Essays for
the Young People. By STEPHEN
PAGET, Author of “I Wonder,”
“Essays for Boys and Girls,” etc. ss.
net.
PILOT AND OTHER STORTES. By
HARRY PI.UNKET GREENE.
With illustrations in Color and Black
and White by H. J. Ford. 6s. net.
“Pilot” is a cunning and attractive dog
whose adventures and devices as a poacher are
told with verve and humor. In the “other
stories” the author’s Irish temperament finds
full play.
MACMILLANS
EMPIRE LIBRARY
3s. 6d. per volume.
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD.
655. THE WAVE: An Egyptian
Aftermath.
“Mr. Blackwood writes with unfailing grace
and ease, and has once more made us his debtor
for a novel which, while of absorbing interest,
is even more remarkable for its inspiring
quality.”— -Daily Graphic.
MAURICE HEWLETT’S
654. LOVE AND LUCY.
“Beautifully written, and full of humor,
‘Love and Lucy’ is a delicious story.”-— -New
Witness.
MRS. HUMPHRY WARD.
656. LADY CONNIE.
“As fresh and brilliant as a sympathetic and
knowledgeable pen and an engaging story can
make it. The tale is certainly the best that
Mrs. Ward has yet given us in what we might
call her new popular manner. Above all, Mrs.
Ward has succeeded in the difficult task of
putting the real atmosphere of Oxford into her
pages.”— Punch.
EDITH WHARTON.
657 XINGER & OTHER STORIES.
RICHARD AUMERLE MAHER.
651 THE SHEPHERD OF THE
NORTH.
The Times: “A Ffench-Canadian story with
for ‘Shepherd of the North’ a wise, good and
single-hearted Roman Catholic Bishop.... There
is a strongly religious tone about the story,
which contains, among other things of merit,
an extremely vivid description of a great forest
fire.”
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


“Definiteness —a characteristic of successful people”
and we might add, whiskies. It is the definite dis-
tinctiveness of the flavor of Thornes Whisky that is
responsible for much of its success.
Be definite when ordering.
Say THORNE’S —and see that you GET IT.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
In the black square bottle and of superb quality. [3
Encouraged by the fact that many resi-
dents in the northern-coastal towns use
sponges washed in from the Reef, the culti-
vation of the sea-plant on scientific lines is
being considered. It is estimated that
sheepswool sponges, which take four years to
mature, would yield £ll6 per acre, and that
the cost of planting, harvesting and market-
ing is £4; and the small reef sponges, in
spite of their lower market value, give an
even better return, because they mature m
12 or 14 months.
Legal Notices.
IN the matter of the estate of WILLIAM
MARTIN, late of Deniliouin in the
State of New South Wales, Boundary Rider,
.deceased, Intestate.
The next of kin of the above-named
deceased are requested to communicate with
the undersigned stating full particulars or
relationship claimed.
T. W. OVRRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
Missing Friends.
NEXT-OF-KIN WANTED.
"THE Local Deputy Public Trustee, Dunedin, New
1 Zealand, requires information regarding
PATRICK LENNON, a son of Phillip Lennon, wno
died at Dunedin on the 10th February, 1915.
one having- information regarding _ the miss in-,
beneficiary is invited to supply particulars to me
undermentioned, K _ N jj. BROWNE,
Local Deputy Public Trustee,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
Slip a Postal into the Box for one of these
COOL
SILK
SHIRTS!
THE- Man looking for Cool Summer Comfort will find it
in one of these shirts. He’ll also find, no matter how
particular he is, that we’ve been still more particular
—they’re as nearly perfect in Fashion and Finish as it is
possible for human hands to make them.
And priced so fine that they’re the Best Value Possible to
Buy.
“YOU CAN’T BEAT FINNEY’S.”
TENNIS STYLE Pictured on left —
In White Jap Silk. Prices 10/6, 12/6, 14/6.
In Fuji Silk, Tussore shade. Prices 12/6,14/6, 16/6.
In Shantung Silk. Prices 10/6, 12/6, 14/6.
In Fancy Striped Silk. Trices 16/6 and 22/6.
TOURIST STYLE —— Pictured on right —
fitted with double, turn-back cuffs and soft,
double, detachable collar to match.
In White Jap Silk. Prices 12/6, 14/6, 16/6.
In Fuji Silk. Prices 12/6, 14/6, 16/6.
In Shantung Silk. Prices 12/6, 14/6, 16/6.
In Fancy Striped Silk of Blue, Black and Helio.
Prices 16/6 and 22/6.
FINNEY’S PAY THE CARRIAGE.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO. LTD.
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
v.
S'
A
IN BANANA LAND
“Outback”: Though Clermont has had
many floods those of 1870 and December,
1916, stand in a class by themselves, so
far as modern times go. But Binghi remem-
bers another. Andrew Small, one of the
oldest residents of the Peak Downs, .told me
that he gave a hand to build the Clermont
Hotel, the first groggery in the township. This
was started in October, 1862 ; part of it is
now the kitchen of the Bank of N. S. Wales.
When Andrew was assisting to put in a
wall plate, an abo. remarked, “White pfeller
plurry fool,” and showed Small and John
Winters, owner of the pub, a flood-mark on
a tree on Sandy Creek, where he had seen
the water when a boy. The levels were run
out by Small and Winters, and the pub was
feet under flood mark. In the last flood it
was the terrific cross-currents which did the
damage. The depth of water was not ter-
rific ; at any part of the flat there was
never more than 12ft.
According to his own admission Queens-
land Government Printer Gumming has
broken out in an unexpected place by de-
veloping a fiery enthusiasm in the cause of
the Y.M.C.A. This is the manner of his
circular appeal for £21,000 for the Associa-
tion’s funds: —
The best fellows that ever drew the breath of life
have gone from this country to belt blazes out of the
bully of the Central Empires. When a soldier gets
time to think he gets a bit homesick. He would be
having a rotten time if it were not for a good .pal
that is standing to him day and night. I am talking
about the Y.M.C.A. It seems a bit strange for my
name to be mixed up with the Y.M.C.A., but this
institution has broken down all my prejudices, and
to-day I take my hat off to it as the finest thing in
God’s earth.
Why it should be a bit strange for Gumming
to be mixed up with the Y.M.C.A. is left to
conjecture. But if he can rake in £21,000
the Y.M.C.A. will have quite excusably
become mixed up with Gumming.
“McNorth” : The latest report of the Chief
Protector of Aborigines contains a casual
statement to the effect that there has been
an outbreak of whooping-cough at Morn-
'ington Island. Mornington is a remote
speck in the Gulf of Carpentaria, and was
the only remaining terra incognita in the
North until a year or two ago, when a
mission station was established there. Since
then introduced disease is making ravages
amongst the natives. Under existing condi-
tions the fate of the islanders is as certain
as the setting of the sun. They are doomed.
But no one bothers. The heads of Depart-
ments seem to enthusiastically pursue a
policy of letting things slide and allow mis-
sionaries (some of them Germans, by the
way) to work on whatever lines .they
choose. The result is disastrous. The
Torres Strait Islands are the only places
where any good has been done, and the man
chiefly responsible for their progress, W. M.
Lee-Bryce, P.M., was unthinking enough to
die the other day.
Bananaland is again (hie) to the fore.
Under the amended financial agreement
between Commonwealth and States it is pro-
vided that, while South Aus. is to be con-
tent with £2,660,000 of loan money, and
Victoria must not exceed £1,552,000, Queens-
land is to have (hie) £2,910,000. True.
£400,000 of this is for flood-relief purposes;
hut under the old agreement Bananaland
claimed the same proud pre-eminence. North-
ern Labor is still on a financial jamboree,
and simply will not be denied its beer money.
Passed out at Gympie a few days ago,
William G. King, a Bananalander who had
done more than his share of roaming. From
Queensland scrubs he went to Sydney, thence
to the Big Smoke, and, later, with the 7th
Hussars to South Africa. His next move
was into the Bechuanaland police, which
patrolled the country towards Bulawayo.
In ’9B he casually called in on Bananaland
again, only to amble Boerwards once more
on the outbreak of the war. A spell of
mining followed, and, finally, lie lapsed into
the uneventful pleasantness of Queensland
fruit-farming. He missed the half-century
by three years.
PROPRIETY.
MISS JONES : “I hope there’s no one looking, Mr. Brown.”
THE AMOROUS MR. BROWN : “Not a soul.”
MISS JONES : “Because you ore exceedingly rude if there is."
Jacob Stumm, the Lillev Liberal M.H.R.,
put his case lucidly and pithily at a recent
recruiting conference, and it is good enough
to go anywhere. Stumm has? been 60 years a
Queenslander, having arrived as a mere
baby. His father was naturalised. Out of
10 members of the Stumm family born in
Queensland seven are doing their bit in
camp or field and one has been killed in
action. The mother of the young Stumms
came of a Scottish family, a fact that did
not prevent her son being challenged when
he recorded his Australian vote in the
recent referendum.
“Itan” : Bill Hamilton has no time for go-
slowers. Not long ago it was evident that
the stall’ opening up a State coal-mine for
him was afflicted with lazy itch. He sent
for- the foreman, who admitted it. Hamil-
ton sacked the lot. Then he put another
man to captain the job, and told him what
would he his fate if the loafing element got
on top again. The foreman said he under-
stood. The next thing the Minister heard
was that the foreman the first day had four
fights and won them, and that everything
was! now going' swimmingly.
“F. 8.” : A truly wise man was Archbishop
Dunne, just deceased, I well remember
how, when he was parish priest of Too-
woomba. he devoted himself heart and soul
to settling people on the land. The good
“soggarth” used to maintain that while
church, convent and schools were all healthy
for folk; it was the home that made a church
and a nation. There must be many scores
of families on the Downs to-day who owe
their homesteads to the aid of the good old
cleric.
“Coolibah” on Strawberry’s toilet: —
Queensland Agricultural Department should dis-
seminate a little knowledge on the subject of cattle
dipping. Most of us who are breeding stock within
the old tick-infested coastal areas have acquired a
great deal of knowledge by the old and expensive
method of paying for our mistakes; but the recent
holocaust at Chinchilla, where 400 head went up
in smoke after being over-dipped, and the more
recent occurrence in the Nanango district, where
22G forward stores were destroyed, seem to suggest
that cattle-owners on the verge of the infested area,
and further out, have much to learn. I have no
particulars concerning the Chinchilla case, but it is
safe to say that the trouble was brought apout by
giving the same stock two dippings within, say, two
or three days. At Nanango the bullocks were dipped,
driven 35 miles in two days, dipped again at the
conclusion of the journey, and a few days later were
dying in great agony. The hides of beasts dying
in this way are useless, being as hard as deal and
cracked and fissured right across in great open seams.
The poor brutes usually lose their sight about the
second day after their maltreatment. Dipping
cattle, even in a solution of the ordinary strength
required for tick destruction, produces a degree of
cutaneous irritation that leaves the hide in a con-
dition unfitting it to withstand the effects of a
further immersion. This condition of sensitiveness
is at its height on the second or third day, and
any further application of the poisonous fluid about
that time will always be attended with very bad
results. Years ago, when stockowners were gaining
their knowledge by experimenting with dipping, ino-
culation, etc., a station near Bundaberg killed 80
cows by this method. I lost a whole - platoon of
milkers in the same way, but managed to nurse a
few back to active service at the bucket by simply
washing them in crude castor-oil. Curiously, two or
three immersions in the dip within a few hours does
not appear to be attended with any bad results. An
old bull of mine, who is a noted gate and rail
artist, goes through the dip on dipping day with
every mob of cows that he sees approaching the
yards. He thus frequently gets three or four baths
in as many hours without in any way impairing his
ability as a hurdler.
Ashes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come near to me, O Rose of all the W orld!
Thy satin lip, like flow’ret half uncurled,
Press close and closer yet to this grim mouth.
Mayhap that crimson bud will quench the
drouth,
The yearning and the wild ecstatic pain,
The agony of loss, the longing vain
For her who nevermore will kiss again!
They call thee Chalice of Delight, ’tis said.
Canst help me to forget? For she is dead!
Dead are the laughing eyes, the dancing feet.;
Cold is the heart which once to mine could
beat.
For me alone Love woke within her eyes.
Each day with you a new Love wakes and dies.
Sold are your kisses, and your vows are lies.
O woman, can thy soft hands’ flutt’ring touch
Bring heartsease to a fool who loved too
much ?
Above her head the drifting rose-leaves fall,
Hiding her earth-bed with a scented pall.
Above our heads bloom other roses red,
Shedding their fragrance o’er our silken bed.
Press close, hot lips! I would forget my dead.
QUEENSLAND.
E.S.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, January 20, 1917.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
This afternoon Premier and Mrs. Ryan
boarded the Lucinda and entertained dele-
gates to the A.W.U. and (take this lot
slowly) A.M.I.E.U. conference on the river.
Rain did its best to spoil the outing, but
nobody complained of a little thing like
that in view of the set-off.
Brigadier-General Lee, District Com-
mandant, and Mrs. Lee will soon leave this
State to take up their residence in X. S.
Wales, where the old Light Horseman will
succeed Brigadier-General Ramaeiotti as
Commandant. Such a popular couple can
have only one farewell —R.I.P. No, no, my
dear; it means Return If Possible.
George Woolnough, the late editor of the
Brisbane Telegraph, farewelled the staff
that lie is bequeathing to Dr. Fred Ward
at a dinner last Tuesday night. A photo-
graph of the bequest, autographed by the
items, was handed to the departing chief by
.1. R. H. Lewis, who for many years has
swung the sub.’s blue pencil with firmness
in his hand and remorse in his heart.
The other day Bernard Canniffe, a well-
known accountant, dragged two small boys
from the Brisbane River and returned them,
damp but otherwise undamaged, to their
agitated parents. No, thanks; much
obliged, but he wouldn’t mention his name.
However, somebody had recognised him—no
man can do a good deed in this world and
escape detection —and then there was the
fuss that the rescuer had hoped to avoid.
Sister T. J. Dunne, who is well known
in and around Nerang, has been made
matron of a war hospital at the British
Deccan, Poona (India). Her nursing staff
is 50 strong.
Another Queensland nurse who has been
distinguishing herself is Sister Constance
Keys, who has been awarded a Royal Mili-
tary Cross of the second order. She left
Australia in September, 1914, with the first
lot of Bananalanders, and on the voyage to
Egypt attended to some of the wounded
from the Emden. Her next lot of patients
were Anzacs. After that she came home on
a transport carrying wounded, returned to
Egypt again, and was made a sub-matron.
Young Sylvester Browne, who got his
commission a short time ago in the Irish
Guards, and is now with his regiment in the
trenches, is the youngest son of the late
Sylvester—the big fellow who amused him-
self by capturing bushrangers in the long
ago. The remains of the old stockyard on
Dillalah station are still standing, close to
the spot where he performed his last feat of
the kind.
E. S. Emerson hasn’t fotgotten the way
to turn out pretty bird-songk. You will re-
member those pleasant fanqi,es he embodied
(accompanied by Norman Lindsay decora-
tions) in “An Australian Bird Calendar.’
Round about his cottage at Zillmere num-
bers of the beautiful blood hloney-eaters were
visitors in the Spring. These sprites “‘Milky
White” introduced in a lyrip; and, to a set-
ting by S. 11. Pittman 250 girls of the
Kangaroo Point school warbled it recently.
’Twas an animated, tuneful performance.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


m
r*:
■
H
m
SIS
fill!!
w
11
isillf
. -v ■*!
*■• :*
m
STUDEBAKER WINS AGAIN!
THis time it is the Australian Speed Records, made on Christmas and Boxing Days-
Half mile in 21| seconds
Mile in 44 seconds
attaining' a speed of nearly 85 miles per Hour.
The winning car was driven by Alec Jewell on Southport Beach, Queensland.
It is a stock Studebaker “6” chassis, the only addition being a crown wheel
and pinion made in the C.C.M. workshop to raise the gear ratio. Racing
parts, including aluminium pistons, were ordered from America for the occa-
sion but failed to arrive. Locally-manufactured aluminium pistons proved
unequal to the strain, so the sturdy car broke the records on her own parts,
which makes the performance the more remarkable. No shock absorbers
were fitted ; this alone makes the record almost unique, as it is doubtful whether,
in any race, a car has ever attained the speed of 85 miles without them.
THE STUDEBAKER, SERIES 17,
is the finest motor-car value on the Australian market.
PREVIOUS RECORDS HELD BY THE STUDEBAKER CARS: •
BRISBANE to TOOWOOMBA. NAPIER to TAUPO, N.Z.
The Great Across=the=Continent Record—FREMANTLE to SYDNEY in under nine days.
It is tbe Quality in Studebaker Cars tbat makes them winners every time.
Send for particulars.
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.,
Head Office and Showroom : 177 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Garage, Workshops and Warehouse: GLENHORE ROAD, SYDNEY.
State Importers : VICTORIA—Messrs. TURNER BROS., 398 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—THE CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Creek and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. JL RICHARDS & SONS LTD., 95-99 Pulteney Street, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—THE ARHSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, PERTH.
TASMANIA W. GAHAGAN, Collins S treet, HOBART ; CORRICK’S GARAGE, Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON,
NE *V ZEALAND—ADAMS LTD., CHRISTCHURCH.


Now is the time to buy
THE ALL-BRITISH
ONOTO PEN!
gfd
BRITAIN
leads in
Foun t a i n
P n-> The
Pen that
do e s not
leak, that
fills itself
and cleans
itself in fil
ling is Bri
tish made
It i s t li e
Onoto — the
pen that ne
ver scratches
or splutters
that writes
readily and
smo ot h 1 y.
and is always
ready to
write. Get an
Onoto now.
It is the best
pen made in
Britain o r
a n y w here
throughout
the world,
insist on the
g
Onoto
«eir-nwng - •
Safely Fountain
Pen
PRICE, 14/6, and upwards, of all
Stationers. Jewellers and Stores
Manufacturers—Thomas de la Roe
& Co. Ltd. .Bunhi 11 Row, London. EC.
Managing Agents—Norman Baker &
Longhurst. York Street, Sydney.
Ask for Onotolnk the best for all Pens
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
Anti for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3J- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
GREAT DANGER OF INSECT BITES.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by Using NEV-A-BITE.
A Preparation of Proved Effectiveness.
“There is no question,” says a leading specialist,
“that insect bites may lead to great danger to
health, and have been known to end fatally.”
fdg
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
This alarming
statement, which
lias • appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect bite
might set up such
serious inflamtna-
tion as to cause blood-poisoning, and—as every-
one well knows —blood-poisoning may lead to
even the amputation ot a limb.
The best form of treatment of mosquito
bites is prophylactic or preventive. The appli-
cation of a little of the NEV-A-BITE
lotion reduces the probability of mosquito bites
to a minimum.
NEV-A-BITE is a perfectly harmless
preparation, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
If NEV-A-BITE is unobtainable from
your local supplier, send 1/2 in stamps to one
of the following, viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney,
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [2
THE SECRET.
He has discovered the secret
of those beautiful English
Gardens he has seen, and so
will you if you send for
RYDERS ILLUSTRATED
SEED CATALOGUE,
sent FREE to any address.
This book shows how to
buy the best quality
Bee d s in convenient
Penny Packets. Send to-
day for Catalogue.
RYDER & SON, Ltd.
Seed Merchants,
St. Albans, ENGLAND
df
:
ss
*
Typically Australian
The “There and Back”
“Boomerang.”
No imported tyre, however expen-
sive, can surpass these Australian-
built “There and Back” “Boom-
erang Tread
m
U
w
On every Barnet Glass Tyre is stamped
the name of the Founders of the Austral-
asian Rubber Industry. The ever-increasing demand for
these real, live, Para Rubber Tyres is conclusive evidence
of their superiority. With every Barnet Glass Tyre goes
a guarantee of satisfaction or an adjustment allowance.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
Founders of the Australasian
Rubber Industry,
Branches in all Australasian
Centres.
&
"Miles
Cheaper
and
Australian "
.
'■.V
■
I
The Tyre of outstanding merit
Palmer Cords have strength. They are built up strand by strand from
fine cotton threads. Fibre and rubber alternate so that, in the complete
cord, no two strands touch.
Woven canvas, the tyre reinforcement of all Tyres
hut Palmers, lacks “life.” Itsetsup the internal
friction which the Palmer Patent Cords eliminate.
The cords run transversely across the tread in two
layers. They form a reinforcement which
restrains the air pressure evenly and without heat.
palmer Cord Tyres are made in all sizes for Heavy and Light Cars, Cyclecars, Motor Cyles, Auto-
Wheels and Aeroplanes.
Palmer Fabric—cot'on strands separately insulated in pure rubber —is the foundation of the lower-priced
Palmer Motor Cycle Tyres and of all Palmer Cycle Tyres. The Palmer Cord is a development from
Palmer Fabric; for their individual purpose, both Cord and Fabric represent the highest efficiency known.
Agency for
Motor Tyres.
The India Rubber
Gutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd.,
279 George St.,
Sydney.
LITERATURE FREE BY POST OR
CALL FROM NEAREST AGENCY OR DEPOT.
Agency for
Motor Cycle and
Cycle Tyres.
TheMndia Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd.,
279 George St.,
Sydney.
The PALMER TYRE Ltd., Chief Offices and Showrooms,
119 to 123, Shaftesbury Ayenue, London, W.C., England.
(I) <?>
gdf
g
Stockings and Socks
for Patriots’ wear
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are guaranteed by the Brand to be entirely
British made, and are produced from pure
Australasian wool. By buying only Jason you
help the Old Country—besides securing the
finest value in the world.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks —which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See thei Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiers 00-. Leicester. Enj.
Aa 61
fdg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“Y.E.”: Jack Loudon had leanings to-
ward the stage, although he never got as
far as dramatising any of his own works.
Others, however, have seen the possibilities.
Recently in London one of his shorter
stories was dramatised under the title “A
Fine Night’s Work” and produced with un-
qualified success. London, by the way, gave
a film company a big scoop three days before
his death by allowing it to take a picture of
his home life, revealing charming glimpses
into the character of the hale, big-hearted
fellow of God’s great outdoors.
“Up Stage”: This is fame! Homeward
bound the other night I introduced Bert
Bailey to a commercial, who, although in-
different to the theatre, complimented the
actor upon his success as Dad in the "Sign
of the Cross.” Reminds me. Years back,
while playing a Sydney season, Bland Holt
wired his mechanist in Melbourne to send
over the scenery of “White Heather.” As
they were loading it at the wharf a dear old
gentleman with a profusion of whiskers and
brass buttons inquired the destination. “Syd-
ney, to Bland Holt,” was the answer. “Dear
me! And how much is there?” the ancient
asked. “Fifty tons.” “Dear me, remark-
able!” He was still more surprised when
informed that nearly half as much again was
used in some productions. “Well, well, you
astonish me! I thought they could carry
enough under their arms for their concerts.
Fancy a Band of Hope using all those
screens!”
“Hohoho”: The obvious explanation of
the pathetic series of foreign imported
dramas in Australia is given -by Clayton
Hamilton, a well-known American critic.
These crook melodramas or cranky farces
are not even representative of the foreign
country from which they come; they are
tried before an unrepresentative audience, and
by the verdict of that audience they become
successes or failures in the U.S.A. That
foreign audience wdiich settles our dramatic
taste for us is the Broadway audience;
and the Broadway is “a region in
which real people do not live, and
cannot live, because it is lighted only by
electric lamps instead of by the sun and
moon and stars. America is not made of
such people, and neither is New York ; but
our theatre, for the most part, is deliberately
edited for that infinitesimal proportion of
our general population that patronises flashy
lobster-palaces and noisy cabarets.” As
the cultured people who patronise concerts
and art exhibitions have long given up going
to the Broadway theatres, the destiny of
the entire theatre in America (and, of course,
its theatrical suburb called Australia) is
determined and controlled by the success or
failure of the plays that are thrown before
the flashy lobster-eaters. The U.S. press
takes its cue from tliis Broadway mob, and
our Australian managers dutifully follow the
noisy crowd. Come to think of it, there is
a flashy-lobster flavor about most of this
foreign nroduet. Perhaps they would prove
palatable to Australians if they were given
away with a cray.
“S. Snell” : In response to the irresistible
force behind the law of buying in the cheap-
est market and selling in the dearest, I can
see the whole of the moving picture business
going over to China. Digest this from an
interview with a happy manager running a
film business in the valley of the Pe-hi-ho:
“We have a Chinese Charlie Chaplin. Ilis
name is Chau, and he is a wonderful acrobat.
He is the only Chinese slap stick comedian
we have ever got them to stand for. He
gets £2 10s. a month. It is so much money
that other actors refuse to believe him.”
Think of the cinematographic possibilities
of a country where you can get a Charlie
Chaplin for 12s. Gd. a week! There is in-
deed <a theatrical managers’ Celestial Empire.
They go to China when they die.
“Norbell” : Gagging often saves the situa-
tion. Years back, when Dampier put on
“Monte Cristo” at the Alex., Melbourne, the
cue went in vain the first night for the “big”
entrance of the millionaire Count. An
agonised wail came from the prompt corner:
“Keep it going, the old man’s round at the
front!” Without the flicker of an eyelid
the late Charles Field took centre and waded
in : “As I came up the long avenue of janes
but now I saw an aghd man, with arms
crossed on his breast, pacing sadly to and
fro in the moonlight. Surely, I thought”—
and so on by the yard. Presently the reas-
suring voice of the prompter whispered:
“Cut it short.- He’s ready now!” Field
gracefully brought his impromptu speech to
an end with a melodramatic flourish, and
got a round of applause from a crowded
house. Then the Count of Monte Cristo
entered, and everything proceeded swim-
mingly. I asked Field afterwards how he
did it. He put it down to years of experi-
ence in the penny gaffs of the East End of
London. There, he said, they talked over
the plot of the new thriller in the morning
and found their own dialogue at night.
“8.J.”: General Smith-Dorrien’s cam-
paign in favor of stage purity and neck-to-
ankle costumes for revue girls has fallen
fiat. One of the warrior’s latest yelps was to
the effect that a scene in “Air. Wu,” remem-
bered here as a rather dull Chowdrama, was
“absolutely immoral.” A London Sunday
paper sent a reply-paid wire to 11. AI. Ver-
non. the author, asking him to say something.
“Why should I be the only person in Eng-
land to pay any attention to an old gentle-
man with a bee in his bonnet?” was Vernon’s
answering wire, me old gentleman hasn’t
been taken too seriouslv as a reformer since,
at Aldershot a few years back, he started a
strenuous campaign against the degrading
cigarette, which was sapping the moral fibre
of the British army, or words to that effect.
TOUCH AND GO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He fought against Death's cold and clammy hand,
Though from a world of pain it would relieve
A stricken soul that bore the awful brand
Of Cain. With fleeting breath he asked reprieve
For that dark sin. His voice sank lower, feebler—
then
The blamed producer shouted, “Rotten! Die again!’’
VICTORIA.
808 DEXTER.


Do you feel out of humor and think
that everyone has a grudge against you,
because everything seems to be going
wrong? It is you that is “Wrong,” and it
is your liver that has the grudge against
you—possibly because you are not treat-
ing it well. You have given it too much
work to do, and when it wanted a gentle
laxative to set it right you neglected to
attend to it. To set your liver right, to
make things go well, and to make your-
self feel good all over, take a course of
Chamberlain’s Tablets and you will be
more than pleased with the result. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets are unsurpassed for
irritability.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are purely vege-
table. and contain no ingredient that
can in any way be injurious to the most
delicate person. Their action is mild and
gentle, without any of the painful sensa-
tions experienced by tlie use of pills.
Chamberlain’s Tablets act as a tonic,
strengthen the system and assist the
natural movement of the bowels.
The most common cause of constipa-
tion is a lack of exercise necessary to
keep the muscles of the bowels active.
That is why constipation is often brought
on by too frequent use of purgatives.
They act violently, performing the work
of the bowels for them, and so weaken
them that they will not act without
assistance. Chamberlain’s Tablets will
cure constipation because, instead of
doing the work of the bowels, they gently
stimulate them to voluntary action.
Their frequent use will not injure the
most delicate person.
Indigestion means imperfect nourish-
ment. and that means poor health. In
these days of strenuous competition it is
the healthy man who wins. Nothing
equals Chamberlain’s Tablets for clearing
the stomach of undigested food and pro-
moting a flow of gastric juices which are
indispensable in the process of digestion.
Indigestion always produces a tendency
to constipation, and for this alone Cham-
berlain’s Tablets are invaluable.
DO NOT BE BEHIND THE TIMES,
but move with them. Salts, castor-oil
and harsh purgatives are out of date,
and have been the cause of many a case
of constipation. Chamberlain’s' Tablets
are the medicine that you want to take.
They cure constipation, indigestion, bili-
ousness, and cure them permanently.
Remember the name—Chamberlain's
Tablets—and be sure you get them, for
there is nothing “just as good.”
NEVER FORGET that upon your
physical condition depends your comfort
and usefulness. That your condition will
be bettered, your figure increased, when
your bowels are regulated, your liver
stimulated and your digestion made
sound by taking Chamberlain’s Tablets
for the stomach and liver.
The old saying, “Coming events cast
their shadows before.” is especially true
of a bilious attack. You will have‘ warn-
ing of its approach. Your appetite will
fail, you will feel dull and languid and
have a feeling of nausea. As soon as anv
of these symptoms appear take three of
Chamberlain’s Tablets and the attack
may be warded off. By taking a course
of Chamberlain’s Tablets you will be
permanently relieved of all bilious ten-
dencies.
When the liver and bowels don’t act,
life is a failure. Chamberlain’s Tablets
wake these drowsy organs, like the sun
wakes the earth, and the whole body
laughs. It is fun to live when the body
is in good trim, but it is never so when
the liver and bowels shirk duty. There
is more happiness in a Is. 6d. box of
Chamberlain’s Tablets than you ever
dreamed of. They stimulate the nervous
system and make you feel young again.
u Ur7?
V
i
J
W 5
tr\
..v\<
.v* «?
v \
'fi
m
•V%f
•V,\
■**•< ci
Ll\/EI?GI?4PH PIETUPES
BY
CHAMBERLAINS
Tablets -
That tired, don’t care sort of feeling is Nature’s
warning to you that your liver is out of order.
Why suffer the misery and agony
that comes from your liver being out of
order ?
Why try to bear up in belief that
you will be right in a day or two —you
are only neglecting Nature’s warning.
What you need is medicine.
The sooner you commence to take
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the Stomach
and Liver the better it will be for you.
You can’t afford to fool with your
liver, and you certainly can’t afford to
be without this great remedy if your
liver is out of order.
Don't delay—get a box to-day.
They will brace up your nerves,
prevent despondency, invigorate the
whole system, and both you and your
liver will be better “ livers.”
They are an ideal medicine for old
and young.
For biliousness, constipation, belching,
gas on the stomach, foul breath, head-
ache, bloating, etc., nothing equals
CriAMBECLAINSTABLETS
THE*Stomach o Livep.
B.y allowing yourself to become consti-
pated you are slowly and surely poisoning
yourself. When the bowels perform
their work they expel all poisonous mat-
ter, but when you allow yourself to
become _ constipated you absorb all this
poison into your system, thus laying the
seeds of many diseases. Some of the
signs of self-poisoning are headache, back-
ache, languidness, weariness, melancholy,
furred tongue, pasty complexion, loss of
appetite, etc. The safest antidote to such
poison is Chamberlain’s Tablets. These
Tablets stimulate the liver and bowels to
act naturally and gently. In doing so
they cleanse the stomach and purify the
blood.
NO, NEVER ! A man with a healthy
liver does hot contract diseases. During
recent epidemics in various parts of the
world thousands of people protected them-
selves by keeping their livers healthy and
active by the use of Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets.
When the food leaves the stomach
without having gone through the requisite
process, as happens in cases of indiges-
tion, it is impossible for the liver to com-
plete the work. Therefore, look to your
stomach—strengthen and stimulate it to
perform its functions. There is no better
medicine for this than Chamberlain’s
Tablets. Chamberlain’s Tablets will
cleanse your stomach of all undigested
food and restore it to a healthy condi-
tion.
If your liver is sluggish and out of
tone, and you feel dull, bilious, consti-
pated. take a dose of Chamberlain’s
Tablets to-night before retiring, and you
will feel all right in the morning.
df
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
, WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
'' ou'll always want to be out in the open with the
‘"Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
' (Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
%
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AIiABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
R
pffj
<S)y
AVr'-
PATRIOTISM
-Your
Aim? c
Then have aJHOT
at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
v\
1
X
_L
gfdg
DINHEFORD’S
Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ OINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
.Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
re
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Hear (he delightful
AMBEROLA
This is the day of good music, and the Edison
“Amberola” has done a large share in intro-
ducing into the home the kind of selections
that are enjoyed by persons of every taste.
The “Amberola’' plays the famous unbreak-
able Blue Amberol Records —fresh numbers of
which arrive monthly—and are made in a
sufficiently large variety to meet the requiie-
ments of all hprnes.
Ask your Edison dealer for more details, or
write direct to us for illustrated catalog,
post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
xjL should read the British Austral-
asian, fid. weekly—-an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
ĝfd
HERE’S
THE REASON.
It matters not how good a man’s
clothes are, he never looks cor-
rectly attired unless his shoes are
rightly chosen. This is why so
many well-dressed men wear
ABBEY SHOES
We illustrate one of our latest
models—a GLACE KID BAD.,
with PATENT LEATHER TOE-
CAPS.
Price - 27/6
In full sizes, C. & T). Fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Ci.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
George
St. Kiia&,
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams
4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 10/6' per day,
ineluding Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
Wanted.
Wanted Lady Home Workers.
£1 WEEKLY may be earned in spare time. Dainty
work, easily mastered at home from our simple
instruction. No matter where you live you can take
advantage of our special offer, which is open for a
limited time onlv. Send three stamps for booklet
giving full details. TORCHON LACE CO., 229
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
TIVOLI THEATRE, S V 1> N E V
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Pin ns at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
TIVOIJ THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Grand Reappearance of
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
VERA PEARCE, JACK CANNOT, GEORGE
WELCH, BEL OLIVER. THELMA RAYE, DAISY and
SYDNEY YATES, FRED BLUETT, BILLY REGO,
and others.
Plan at Glen’s.
HE R MA,IES T Y ’ S, SYI)N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Return of the ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
including- FLORENCE YOUNG, with
THE CINEMA STATE
Most Resplendent of the Theatrical Firmament.
Plans at. Paling's. Day Sales Callose’s.
CR I T E RI() N TIIE A T IS E. SYDNEY.
Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction THE BERT BAILEY CO.
TO-NIGHT AND SEVEN FOLLOWING EVENINGS.
THE BERT BAILEY COMPANY in
MUM DAWSON, BOSS.
An adaptation by Sumner Loclce from her widely
read book of the same name.
Popular Prices: Dress Circle and Reserves Stalls,
4/- : Stalls, 3/- ; Early Door Gallery, 2/- ; Late
Gallerv, 1/-. Exclusive of Tax. Box Plan at Paling's.
W HITE CITY
TO-NIGHT.
7.80 to 11.
GA It HEN THEATRE,
liayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
??Y7?
\v\ ;
TKIANGEE PLAYS AT
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.ra.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30;. Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling-’s.
Prices; 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
° Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
EH .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 1.45.
J. C. WILLTAMSON LTD. present the Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
H
Til EAT RE It OYA L, IIEMIOIiIiSH.
Direction J. C. WILLTAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present FLORENCE
ROCKWELL in
the house of glass.
Prices as usual.
KIN C ESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Appearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER.
Popular Prices.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees.... Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of Allen Doone in his New Play,
by Theo Burt Sayre,
HAPPY-00-LECKY O’SHEA.
Popular Prices.
FINEST SHOW AT
MELBOURNE.
ST. HILDA,
EVERY EVENING, 8.30.
DANDIES.
BEST COMEDIANS. BEST SINGING.
The Prices, like the Dandies, are Popular.
-|-HE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
TWO SESSIONS DAILY.
E. J. CARROLL presents.
A CINEMA THEATRICAL ENTERTAINMENT,
RAMONA.
FULL SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
Birch & c a k k o l l
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS,
l’laving Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba tc
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the I.ending Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia T.td.
Hit An Office : ROTHWF.LL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
IT Jj I, TC K’S HOTEL. MEL B O tRNE
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN .1. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Room's. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 20th January, 1917.
Volunteers for the Manufacture of
Munitions in Great Britain.
THE Government of the Commonwealth has decided !
to send further men to England, with a view |
of assisting the Empire in the production of Muni-
tions.
The men will he chosen front those engaged in
the following trades: Jig and Tool Draftsmen and
Toolmakers, Toolsetters, Fitters (general,, erecting,
bench), Turners, Coppersmiths and Shipworkers.
Those engaged in the following shipworking trades
will be considered: Boilermakers, Platers, Riveters,
Angle Smiths, Caulkers, Drillers, Boilermakers’
Assistants, Shipwrights, Joiners, Oxy-acetylene
Cutters, Plumbers and Blacksmiths.
Passages will be provided to and from England m
transports or such other vessels as may be determined
by the Minister for Defence. Allowances’ of Five
pounds ( £5) will be made to each man for expenses
on the voyage each way. Such men as are married
or are the sole support of mother or family will
be granted in addition an allowance as follows: For
the first eight weeks after embarkation, at the rate
of Twenty-five shillings (255.) per week and Two
shillings and sixpence (2s. 6d.) per week for each
child under the age of sixteen years; and thereafter
Twenty shillings (205.) per week and two shillings !
(25.) per week for each child under the age of
sixteen years, until the date of their landing on their
return to Australia; these allowances are conditional
on their families being and remaining resident in
Australia. A subsistence allowance of ss. per day
is being paid by the Board of Trade, from day of
landing in England till day of commencing duty.
Railway expenses incurred _in travelling from
countrv districts to capital cities or other distant
centres will be refunded when such journeys are
undertaken at tlie direction of State Munitions Com-
mittees for interview purposes only, but no other
out of pocket expenses will be allowed to applicants
prior to embarkation.
To cover the risks of the voyage the provisions of
the Commonwealth Seamen’s Compensation Act will
be applied by Government to volunteers accepted
under this scheme for munitions Work in England.
Passports will be provided free to accepted appli-
cants.
Selected applicants will be required to undergo a
medical examination before final acceptance.
The men selected are to agree that they will accept
duty wherever placed, and will diligently render
every nossible service in pursuance of the purpose
for which they are to be sent; they will be subject
in England to the direction and instructions of the
Ministry of Munitions or officer authorised by the
Australian Government.
The conditions under which the men will work
and the rates of wages to be paid in Great Britain
will be those prevailing in districts where and by
the firms or Government Departments by whom they
'are employed; pay to date from the day of. com-
mencing duty. Subject to their work and conduct in
England being satisfactory and to suitable vacancies
existing, the selected applicants will receive favor-
able consideration when appointments are being made
for tlie Australian Arsenal.
Applications for enrolment must contain tlie follow-
ing particulars, viz.: Name (in full) and address,
age, birthplace, nationality, whether married or
single, dependents (if any), present occupation, a
short statement of apprenticeship or training and
subsequent experience, a specific statement as .to
where engaged* and the class of work done .during
the past three years, the class of work desired in
England (indicating the-trades or sections of trades
in order of preference), the earliest date on which
the applicant is prepared to embark, together with a
declaration signed by the applicant that he is in
good health and capable of undertaking the work
applied for. Applications must be accompanied by
certified copies of testimonials as to skill and fitness
as a tradesman. Not more than three such testi-
monials are required, but they must he from em-
ployers or responsible persons in the trade. . Two
personal references as to character should be given.
Applications should be lodged as early as possible
with the Secretary, State Munitions Committee,
Harots Buildings, Wynyard Square, Sydney, New
South Wales; Collins House,- Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria; State Munitions (Advisory) Com-
mittee, William Street, Brisbane, Queensland ; State
Munitions Committee, Tourist Bureau, King William
Street, Adelaide, South Australia; care of Govern-
ment Analyst, Wellington Street, Perth, Western
Australia; Railway Commissioner’s Office, Hobart,
Tasmania, from whom printed forms of application
nav be obtained. ,
AH applications previously sent m are void, and
skilled men desirous of volunteering for munition
work in Great Britain, who previously applied but
were not selected, are requested to submit fresh
applications.
T. TRUMBLE,
Acting Secretary.
Business Announcements.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
jsinnn 1506 C U RE S for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”— refuse all substitutes.
g
tSQu33
msBB
The
safest, surest and
purest polish you
can buy. Keeps
brass or silver musi-
cal instruments like
new. Does the work
fdg
and easily. Sold
in two size cans by
all Grocery, Hard-
ware ana Drug
Stores.
Look for Photo on Ca»
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 11th January, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Dynamos,
Switchboard, Motors, Balances and
Control Gear for Power Plant for
Flinders Naval Base.
AMENDED NOT!CE.
TENDERS will be received, subject to the condi-
lions of tendering until 12 noon on Monday, 2nd
April, 1917. for the supply of dynamos, switchboard,
motors, balancers and control gear for Power Plant
for Flinders Naval Base. Delivery to be f.o.r.
Flinders Naval Base.
Tender forms, specifications and full particulars
may be obtained at the Office of the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne ; and at the
Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane; Edgecliff (Sydney) :
Birkenhead (S.A.) : Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tenders for .... for Power
Plant, Flinders Naval Base,” on top left-hand corner
of envelope, and addressed to the Director of Navy
Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne ; or to the Director
of Navy Contracts, c/o one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may , be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
.T. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
COMMONWEAT/TH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 16th January, 1917.
Electric Lighting—Henderson Naval
Base.
"TENDERS will be received, subject to the condi-
i tions of tender, until 12 noon on Monday, 19th
February, 1917, for the supply of Electric Lighting
High Tension Apparatus and Electrical Motors for
Henderson Naval Base.
Tender Form. Specifications, etc., may be obtained
on application at the Office of the Director, of Navy
Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne ; and at the Naval
Staff Offices, Brisbane, Edgecliff - (Sydney), Birken-
head (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Electric Light-
ing” on top left-hand corner of envelope and
addressed to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne; or to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, c/o one of the above.-mentioned addresses, as
the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 16th January, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Machine
Tools for Workshops, H.M.A. Naval
Establishments, Garden Island,
Sydney.
TENDERS are invited, subject to the conditions
1 of tendering, until 12 noon on Monday, 26th
February, 1917, for the supply of Machine Tools for
Workshops, H.M.A. Naval Establishments, Garden
Island, Sydney.
Tender forms, specifications, etc., may be obtained
on application at the Office of the Director of Navy
Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne; General Manager.
H.M.A. Naval Establishments, Sydney; and at the
Naval . Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birkenhead, S.A., Fre-
mantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Machine Tools,
Garden Island” on top left-hand corner of envelope,
and addressed to the Director of Navy. Contract;',
Navy Office, Melbourne; or the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, c/o one of the above-mentioned addresses, as
the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed forms,
which can be obtained as above.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
* r *nra
SfOANpPt
JS*» M Hitt
TrSjLMAtTe*
is:
No
trouble.
In every household there
comes the sudden emergency
when a child is seedy a
husband is home late —
a wife has to be put on a
specially light diet. That is
the moment when Horlick’s
Malted Milk comes in so
handily. It is no trouble
to make, always proves
palatable, and can be given
with impunity to sick child,
tired husband, or dyspeptic
wife unhesitatingly, as it has
all the required ingredients
(Milk, Wheat and Malt) to
meet each case.
Ask for Horlick’s
Malted Milk at the
Soda Fountain
Write for sample, sending
2d. in stamps, to Hutchin-
son & Co. Ltd., 26 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, N S W.; or
Sharland & Co. Ltd., Lome
Street, Auckland, & Dixon
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK


DON'T LOSE
TOUR HAIR
t
■ Touch spots of
dandruff and
. itching with
■ Cuticura
Ointment and
follow with hot
shampoos of
Cuticura
Soap
Absolutely
nothing bet-
ter. You may
try them before you buy them.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p.
card: “R. r
N. S. W.” g
Skin Book. Address post-
owns & Co., Sydney,
ild throughout the world.
‘lt is my opinion that
for Big Game the
Ross .280 Rifle is the
best in the world.’
Mr. Miller adds:
" I have hunt-
ed and fished in
various parts ol
the world, in-
cluding British
East Africa, but
I have never
seen a gun the
equal of the
Ross .280 for
big game.”
Experts all
over the world
concur in this
opinion.
You in-
crease the
chancesof
a success-
ful' hunt
by carry-
ing a Ross
.280, and
using the
B. K. MILLER.
Wild Rose.
Wis..
U.S.A.
m
11WV,,),
V ;
1315
Illustrated
Catalogue
on request.
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper
tube expanding bullet (pat’d).
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘Grand Prlx’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
fd
ELEY
•450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
gfd
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
. The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. 11. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Lsq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR. »
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed £2O 670 00’
~,d Ma&sraas.sr* ,orm 01 con " ,ci "° m £s up *" d *- <»
rrt»t;
a
e
- __Sp§S>
C< P^Sutvs
niniis'ii i'
=1
V
K.
sS
M V
P'S
b
t *C ®
r
Go
UNIQUE PROCESS FOR
RETAINING AND
REGAINING BEAUTY.
By Mlle. Charlotte Sirier.
Does your skin chap or roughen easily, or become
unduly red or blotchy? Let me tell you a quick and
easy way to overcome the trouble and keep your com-
plexion beautifully white, smooth and soft. Just get
some ordinary inercolised wax at the chemist’s, and
use a little before retiring as you would use cold
cream. The wax, through some peculiar action, flecks
oft the rough, discolored or blemished skin. The
worn-out cuticle comes off just like dandruff on a
diseased scalp, only in almost invisible particles. Mer-
eolised wax simply hastens Nature’s work, which is
the rational and proper way to attain a perfect com-
plexion, so much sought after but very seldom seen.
The process is perfectly simple and quite harmless.
** # *
It is astounding the number of women who suffer
from unsightly growths of hair on the face, and it
will come as a piece of good news to know that
there is a simple substance known as powdered
pheminol which will remove it immediately- and per-
manently. Mix a small quantity into a thin paste
with a little water, and apply to the objectionable
growths. In two minutes all trace of the hair will
have entirely vanished, and your skin will be as soft
and smooth as a child’s.
The hair should be allowed to breathe, and the
gieasy film around each strand must be removed with
a mild non-alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be
tabooed. The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stallax
granules in a cup of hot water. It stimulates the
scalp to healthy action, and at the same time leaves
the hair in that soft, fluffy condition so much
admired. Any chemist can supply you with an
original packet of stallax, sufficient to make 25 or
30 shampoos.
* >1: * :!=
One need not resort to the very questionable ex-
pedient of hair-dye in order not to have grey hair.
The grey hair can easily be changed back to a
natural color in a few days’ time merely by the
application of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from ' your
chemist two ounces of tammalite concentrate, and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply this to
the hair a few times with a small sponge and you
Will soon have the pleasure of seeing your grey hair
gradually darkening to the desired shade. The lotion
If pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and de-js not injure
the hair in any way. [2
-KiAA\ //
WiM
m
W&mSM
f'siVys'-iKjc
mmmmm
mm
m
888
MS
V.^afc~.VhytfiUl
mm
ijWP
V ;:
<?»
!° C .C. J
rV.ti
ms
iI&W&Q*
M&M&M
yg@
; - eg
SC33
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have, been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
‘Phosfprine
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely agedNe w Life and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes: —
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons’ Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility,
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.’
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES, M.D., C.M.,
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton |& Parsons Ltd-, of London* would appreciate your courtesy if, being
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins
Melbourne, when the {genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the [cost of t
| refunded to you# |
served
Street,
postage
gf
The only toilet cream containing Icilma
Natural Water. Fragrant, non-greasy,
guaranteed not to grow hair.
British made.
1/6 per pot everywhere.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
a.c.7.
Cream
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents,
11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
The two Launceston dailies held out when
the Hobart pair put up their price to three-
ha’pence, expecting that the paper market
would tumble presently ; but as it hasn’t, and
judging by the price of pulp isn’t soon going
to, the Examiner and Telegraph have now
moved up alongside the Mercury and Post.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : Why all this delight in calling
“of” by the artificial name of “o’ ” in poem
and drama? It is supposed to reflect a
colloquial way of speaking; but how far it
is from doing that can be seen by the fact
that two people out of three—women especi-
ally—don’t recognise it at all, but pronounce
it (for example) “Peg Oh My Heart.” The
letter “o” simply 'doesn’t represent the sound
made by “of” with the last letter dropped ;
and, in the few cases where the “f” really
wants dropping, one has to write “kinder”
and “sorter” to give the effect. But really
there are very few such cases. It is an
artificial literary trick, and very properly
is not found with genuine sentiment that
reflects the world as it is. The worst ex-
ample I have-struck is “glory o’ England,”
which nobody ever said naturally, or indeed
could say without checking in the middle.
* * * *
“Beacon for Breakfast” is a Brisbane
Daily Mail misprint. A light meal, cer-
tainly. <-
* * # *
“Fx”: Another illustration of the petty
jealousy of daily journalism. The Age
quoted from London Daily Chronicle con-
cerning the heroic work of Florence Sandes
in Servia. But it said never a word about
Florence being a sister of Johnny, now of
Sydney and for years on the Argus, whose
verses, written for the hated rival paper, have
appeared in book form in Melbourne. It
wasn’t in the nature of the Age to give its
stolen news a local interest by mentioning
brother John.
* * * *
Three years after his arrival in Queens-
land in 1861, Chas. Hardie Buzacott estab-
lished in washed-out Clermont its first news-
paper-—the Peak Downs Telegram, of
which the last very vigorous editor was Joe
Legina, subsequently a member of the
Bananaland Assembly. Buzacott is one of
the grand old men of journalism in Aus-
tralia. It is years since he left his four-
score mark behind. As he emerged from the
seventies the comps on the Brisbane Daily
Mail, to which he was then attached as
consulting-editor, went out on strike in
sympathy with the tram men and the coal
men and all the rest of them. To preserve
the copyright of the paper some matter had
to be set each day, so the old man stood at
the case and picked up a' few sticks of type, to
be dropped into an opened forme, from which
a page was printed for distribution. He
retired from the Courier on a liberal pen-
sion, which he forfeited when he threw in
with the Mail.
* * 7T *
“T.D.” : Commissioner of Police Urquhart,
of Queensland, has dabbled in the ink. He
has published a volume of verse, a number
of stories, sundry sketches (pretty good
ones), and a collection of legends of the
blacks of the North. A slash across the
thigh and a spear-hole in his system handed
him by the aborigines impaired his police
efficiency for a term, but did not discourage
him in his pursuit of the Muse. More than
once he overtook her, but there does not
appear to have been any undue familiarity.
‘“Van Eck”; The verses of “Den” have
taken a further leap into popularity with
pros, earning a crust in vaudeville. A few
weeks ago Clement May. billing himself as
“The Sentimental Bloke,” set out to recite
some of the poet’s verses, but was nipped
in the bud by the copyright act. The latest
exponent is Gwen Lewis, of the Passing
Show (Sydney). This artist, however, gives
only fleeting impressions of “Ginger Mick,”
probably on account of the vaudeville rights
of the verses being held by George Edwardes
of the Fuller circuit. Edwardes was the
first to recite “Den’s” verses. Some ten
years ago. when “The Sentimental Bloke”
was striving for any other recognition than
The Bulletin gave him, Edwardes was do-
ing well with “ ’Urry,” one of the gems pub-
lished in “Den’s” first book, “Backblock
Ballads.” When he trekked to Fogland the
young Australian took “ ’Urry” along with
him and introduced it to English audiences.
On his return to this country he still clung
to “Den” and is now making hay with his
more up-to-date stuff.
MY BOOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No man writes a book without meaning something,
though he may not have the faculty of writing con-
sequentially, and of expressing his meaning.— Addison.
It is complete—the magnum opus finished.
My book is writ; its joys shall be my own—•
These none shall share. Delight is undiminished
In that I revel selfish and alone.
Each line, as written, stands for anxious thinking;
No pencilled sign was casually made.
At times my very soul with fear was shrinking;
Again, I’d write a line and pause dismayed.
Here should be tears—l wrote this line in sorrow—
Here deeper grief, for much was put at stake ;
Oft have I wished each day was its to-morrow,
Oft slept with Fear —-with Care to mate, awake.
At length the end ; 1 wrote in desperation
To simplify the tangle in my skein,
And finished with a powerful situation —
Finale —in my very happiest vein.
No linotypist's inky paws shall fumble
The pages of MY BOOK. No printer scoff
At my poor penmanship ; no reader grumble,
And wish I had been, timely, taken off.
The sacred pages only I shall study ;
And I for Recollection’s joy alone
When I would have the reds of Life more ruddy,
And realise a pleasure shared by none.
I’ll read again the writing, in the double-book
I made; ten thousand was the limit, and one horse
I hadn’t laid (for the cognoscenti knew him, and he
had no chance, they said ; where the quick were under
saddle, he was listed with the dead). But he can-
tered home the winner of the second big event, and
I'motored home “a skinner” —wherewithal I am con-
tent.
N.S.W.
JOHN DRAYTON.


SPORTING RIFLES
All the better brands are here. For full particulars see
our New Edition Sports List—Post Free on request.
FIREARMS EMBARGO LIFTED
The military restriction prohibiting the sale of GUNS, RIFLES,
REVOLVERS AND AMMUNITION having been removed, we can now
supply these goods to the sporting public.
dg
fd
fgd
g
A reliable weapon at a low price.
86. Steven’s Cracksliot Rifle, new model,
22 calibre, under lever action, ISin.
round barrel, plain sight
15/6
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/S.)
fdg
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
837. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle. Model 16, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches.
Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s}ll>.
Delivered,
£,4/10/'
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 30/- 1000; 3/'
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
it
Learn to shoot with this rifle.
834. Remington Rifles, No. 6 Model, 22 calibi*e R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel; weight, 311 b
18/6
22/0
835. With ladder rear sights
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/S.)
dfg
fd
A perfect rabbiter’s rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12, -- calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear
front sights; weight. 441 b.
and open
Delivered
551-
gfd
The rifle to select for your own use.
822. “The Savage” Repeating Hammerless Rifle,
1914 Model, 22 calibre, rim lire, 24in. octagon barrel,
slide action, demountable, pistol grip, handles short, long or long rifle cartridges;
magazine holds 20 short, 17 long or 15 _long rilie cartridges; lengrli
over all 40in., taken apart 271 in.; weight, about sflb Delivered,
£3/12/6
-,0:
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 2|lb
21
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight 22/6
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
We Repair All Kinds
of Guns and Rifles.
g
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power. •
826. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 calibre, 6 shot, 20in. round
tapered barrel, take down, weight 611 b., muzzle velocity, 2Sooft. seconds,
may be used up to 350 yards without changing from point blank
adjustment of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70 grains) are
used, giving a striking energy of 1200 ft. pounds; carriage paid.
Nf/in Edition Tlluntrated .Firearms and Snortina Cataloaue —Post Free.
£6/10/-
fd
V
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
GAILLE I9I6 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS ENGINES.
latest Models just landed.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
Sole Australasian Agents :
fd
Benson Brothers Limited
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
me.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
A
Special
Appeal
Mother and Child .
Baby 6% mom us.
Fed from birth on the ' Allenhurys' Foods.
on Behalf of Baby
Naturally a Healthy Mother
should feed her own child, and no cause, save inability,
should prevent her doing so. But there are many
mothers who, though willing, cannot wholly or even
partially, nurse their children. Either they have no
milk for them, or it is poor in quality and deficient
in sustenance.
The Question then arises
what food should be given to Baby. Carefully consider
this highly important point. Remember, that the
right food, given at the proper .age will lay a sure
foundation for future health and happiness. Ordinary
cow’s milk is totally unsuitable as a food for young
infants; it is acid, contains indigestible curd and is
frequently swarming with dangerous germs, especially
in summer time. Farinaceous Foods must not be given, as
a child under seven months of age cannot digest starch.
A Satisfactory Solution
of the difficult problem of feeding children by hand is
provided by using the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. Prepared
as directed, these pure Foods closely resemble healthy
mother’s milk in composition, nutritive value and
digestibility. They are the outcome of prolonged
scientific investigation, carried out with all the resources
of wide manufacturing facilities and experience.
Decide to use
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods.- By so doing the many serious
ailments which folllow the use of unsuitable food will
be avoided, and Baby will be equipped with sound
health and strength.
The Method of Simplicity and Certainty
4SUenbtmjs Foods
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2. MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From birth to 3 months. From 3 to 7 months. From 7 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks (Malted).
A useful addition to baby’s dietary when 10 months old and after.
SPIT' Write for free baatk “Infant Feeding and Management"
S 4 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St., Sydney
iiSiSl
: i ; »
vm
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from os.
6d. and upwards. Cards of lanff and all iai-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
nr
Make Your
Own Cans.
We have machines exactly suited to
your needs, whether your output is 0000
or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obliga-
tion, prices and pictures of machines
adapted to your neiids. Send us sapiples
of your cans, or drawings with com-
plete dimensions, and state the quantity
you make.
<n all Languages.
Add Dep 4 C-14.
The Max Ams Machine Company
Bridgeport, Conn.
Agent: H. YV. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.


Composes “The Bunyip” Pantomime
and sings the praises of
Dr. SHELDON’S MAGNETIC LINIMENT.
MISS ELLA AIRLIE (from a photo.),
MISS ELLA ATRLIE, a favorite stage
entertainer, is the first woman on record
to write a pantomime. Not only is she
the authoress of “The liunyip,” she is also
its orchestral conductor and has com-
posed several .of its musical numbers.
Miss Airlie writes to us:—
“I guess everyoirie lias Neuralgia
at some time or a tiler. I had an
attack the other night of Neuralgia
and Toothache at t 7 ae same time, and
it nearly drove me mad. A friend of
mine recommended. Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic liniment and I was de-
lighted with the quick results I
obtained from the use of it; the pain
ceased almost immediately. I
rubbed it on my forehead, cheek and
neck, and a little round the gums of
tile tooth that was bothering me,
and in less than half an hour’s time
I was quite relieved and enjoyed a
good night’s sleep. I had one recur-
rence since, and again used the Mag-
netic liniment with equally good
results. It certainly destroys pain
in a most marvellous fashion.
“Did you know that Magnetic
liniment would cure sandfly bites at
once? A girl friend ol' mine re-
cently went surfing and was bitten
by sandflies on the hajnd three
times. She was so troubled with
the itching that she tohl me, and I
at once got my bottle of Magnetic
liniment and rubbed some on the
bites. It at once took out the itching
and soreness. She has bought a
bottle of your Magnetic liniment
too, now, and is quite as enthusi-
astic as I am about it. Magnetic
liniment deserves success.
“YouP’S truly,
“(Sgd.) Ell,A AIRIIE.’’
BANISHLS ALL PAIN.
Fain in any form, be it Neuralgia, Toothache or Insect Bites of any kind, which
cause so much misery in life—all iliese pains and more are easily controlled by
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. Not an internal remedy, hut working through the
pores of the skin. Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment penetrates—goes into the seat
of pain, and banishment is the result. Apply the Liniment with the palm of the
hand until the friction creates a warm glow, and the pain leaves you as if charmed
away. Life should not he spoiled by pain and suffering when Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic
Liniment is ready to relieve all aches and pains. The ever-a - eady family remedy, 1/6
and 3/-.
■m
A
uc
1)1
in 11 1 1
For All “Outdooring” REX
Camp Pie Fills the Bill.
For the ravenous, not-to-be-denied, insistent
hunger of all outdoors,
“REX”
Camp Pie
both hits the hungry spot and yet says “‘More! More!” For
picnics it’s fine. For hurry-up meals, great and economical. For
breakfasts, luncheons, suppers, auto, trips, etc., it stands on its own.
Serve it with Salad, serve it as it comes from the tin, serve
it in Sandwiches, any way you. like to try it —you’ll like it.
ALSO ASK FOR
Rex Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
“Rex” Hunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages.
ALSO FOR
I
“REX” Luncheon
Cheese
Which is being eaten by hun-
dreds who could never eat
cheese before. The tempting
taste gets you at once.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “REX” HAMS & BACON; Packers of “REX” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
Creation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THUS it was at eventide.
All my soul was open wide,
And the windows of my heart
Summer’s fingers held apart.
Over trees a music fell
As of some far wind-stirred bell
Tossing in a belfry high,
Built in depths of moonlit sky.
But no wind the near air stirred.
Lightly as a spoken word
Breathed within a lover’s ear
Dropt rose-flakes my casement near ;
And a white moth’s dusty flight
Made faint sound across the night.
Shadowed faces came and went,
Shadow eyes above me bent —-
Ghostly robe and veil and zone —-
Harvest of old dreamings sown
In white hours when bird and wing
Filled the fallowed field of spring.
Scarce I breathed in that still hour,
Strange enchantment rich with power ;
With white hands my longing prest
Lightly to her silken breast.
Suddenly the silence thrilled!
Magic light my spirit filled,
And the forms my dreamings wrought
In full nets of truth were caught.
Worlds were open to my ken,
Thronged with life and breathing men ;
Music from a woman’s throat
Edged with laughter seemed to float,
And strange flutter of strange wings
Winnowed thrones of gods and kings,
While all woes that were and are
Wailed aloud to sun and star.
Blood that all the years had bled,
Tears that all the sins had shed,
Raining wildly over me
Held me in an agony;
But through all there seemed to float
Laughter from a woman’s throat.
Gardens gay with bloom and bird,
Dusts a Pharaoh’s chariot stirred,
Lonely streams whose dappled shores
Heard the plash of pilgrim oars
Ere a royal secret hid
’Neath the oldest pyramid—
These in vision fair and fine
For a holy hour were mine.
Suns of oldest deserts set
By the jewelled minaret;
And the cave-man lean and white
Stared soul-startled through the night.
But through all there seemed to float
Laughter of a woman’s throat.
Some white oread, wet with dew,
Heard the pipes the shepherd blew
On the hillside’s thymv steep
Where the long flocks loved to creep ;
And a little altar sinoKe
Made blue shadows near the oak.
Sun-browned gods, from worship free,
Talked with maids on Ossa’s knee.
Bearded kings with furrowed brow
Taught the oxen team to plough ;
And a sudden clash of shields
Rang across the Spartan fields,
Where a wail of death arose
From a town beset with foes.
There the long-ships near the shore
Moved to wind and slave-strained oar
Bearing plunder of the south —-
Slimmer slaves of redder mouth
And the robes that queens desire,
Purple from the looms of Tyre.
These in vision clear and fine
For a mystic hour were mine;
But through all there seemed to float
Laughter from one woman’s throat!
Horror on the death-choked air!
Pits of darkness and despair
Shudder ’neath the charnel lights,
Where the red worm writhes and bites
And the living dead strive on .
When all things but pain are gone ;
And an awful purpose heaves
Through the slime that sobs and grieves,
As if mammoth forms unborn
Strove to reach the bitter morn
When a hope, in hope’s despite,
Yet might win them air and light
That their stagnant lips might stain
The red mouth of faith again....
Yet o’er all there seemed to float
Laughter of a woman’s throat.
Shadow on the cloistered ways.
Here no idle footfall strays,
But with hood about his ears
Talks, the schoolman with his peers.
Monkish books are stored within ;
Restless quills must strive to win
From the ways the sages trod
All that is of man and God,
Following the labored line
Of a song of loves and wine,
Lest within the script should hide
Earth’s last wonder open-eyed.
Salmon from the flowing stream.
Tonsored heads have caught the gleam
Of a sun that redly sets
Tinging learning with regrets
For the open life and free,
Heedless of philosophy ;
For through all there seemed to float
Laughter of a woman’s throat.
All the things that I had dreamed
In that hour about me streamed,
Clear as in the well of youth
Gleams the jewel light of truth.
I the dream-creator there
Viewed my world through finer air ;
Strange, aloof from that I wrought.
Saw the long, white lanes of thought
Even as God may look to see
Ages fainting at his knee. . . .
Yet through all there seemed to float
Laughter from a woman’s throat.
God whose dream in early spring
Taught the youngest bird to sing,
Filled a garden full of bloom
For the first sweet bridal room.
Winged the planets in their flight—
Must he see as I this night?
Must lie hear o’er all things float
Laughter from a woman’s throat
As the last and perfect thing
Of his vast imagining?
Hear its silver throbbing call
Piercing sweetness through the gall,
And its clear insistence still
Mastering all thought and will?
Must he hear,? —-Ah, God and I,
Dreaming till all dreams run dry,
Faint before the perfect thing
Of our own imagining, .. .
Living woman that I wrote,
By the laughter in your throat,
By the dreams that come and die,
Did God make you or did If
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
Medical Attention.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The back door of the skillion was thrust
violently outward, and a short, globu-
lar person with wrinkled face and
pathetic whiskers burst into view and stum-
bled in awkward haste to the slab stables on
the bank of the waterhole at the rear of the
house.
He ran with short, jerky steps. The slack
of his shirt caught the air and filled like a
balloon ; behind him, like the tail of a Chinese
kite, swung the loose ends of his braces.
The sorrel mare, dozing uneasily upon the
dirt and litter of the stable floor, heard the
approaching footsteps and rose clumsily to
her ancient feet in a sudden wild hope that it
was already time for the midday feed. She
was an old, old animal, but held absurdly to
the remnants of an optimistic youth. With
her rose a swirling cloud of flies'that hummed
discordantly about the head of the little man
as be threw down the stable bar and grabbed
at a headstall.
The mare submitted to the bit like one in a
dream. Only a cynical drooping of the lower
lip denoted the passing of still another illu-
sion. Protesting feebly, she was dragged out-
side into the glaring sunlight and the re-
mainder of the harness hastily flung across
her flea-bitten frame. As she was backed
between the shafts of the buggy a woman’s
voice, calling from the door of the bouse,
brought her master’s head round with a jerk.
“Can’t you ’urry?” it shrilled. “She’s
getting wus; and every minute tells in this
here. And don’t fetch the wrong man by mis-
take, like you done larst time but one. You
’ear me?”
The little man bit savagely at a knot in
the rope reins and swore beneath his breath.
“Orright. Come up ’ere, Blossum ; git over,
darn yer.” Then, as the voice still persisted :
“Orright. Ain’t I told yer? Orright!" lie
shouted the words in a childish passion.
4 Hamn that woman,” lie added sullenly,
pausing to. wipe away the perspiration that
streaked his forehead. “Damn that woman!
Thinks she owns the place. A man might ’s
well be dead!” -
Still muttering, he climbed into his seat,
grabbed the whip and smote the okl mare on
the rump. “Gittup, you, Blossum— Uit /”
As he rounded a corner of the house the
voice floated out to meet him on a sea of
words.
“If you ain't quick, ’er blood be on your
’ead, and so I tell yer. And see you bring
him—drunk or sober. ’Arf a doctor’s better’n
none. And his name is Garret; and your
missus bespoke ’im larse Chewsday fort-
night. I seen the letter myself. And don’t
fergit a bottle of whisky from Doolan’s. A
time like this you never know. Better write
it down. The doctor and a bottle of whisky.
A bottle of whisky and the. ...”
“Oh, damn that woman!” Mr. Stubbs
slashed. savagely at the swarm of insects
about his head. “Damn ! Damn that woman !
You, Blossum— Gittup!”
The old mare shambled along in a smother
of dust, with head well down. The driver
sat hunched forward upon his seat. Every
turn of the wheels gave out a slurring whine
that was almost human in its protest.
Doolan’s pub was the first of the dozen
untidy houses that went to make up the
settlement of Coon’s Gap. Nearly a score
of summers had so twisted and warped its
worm-eaten timbers that it might be said to
bang together only by courtesy. A disrepu-
table, irreclaimable ruin, it- tottered insanely
upon the verge of dissolution.
Beneath the verandah, behind a blind of
ragged hessian, half a dozen men sprawled
in the sweltering heat. Two of them were
playing euchre with a greasy pack of cards,
and the rest looked on with sullen interest.
The door of the bar was wide open; whether
to admit the flies and dust or to let out the
over-night odor of stale beer and tobacco
only the Devil —or Doolan—knew. The odor
was a fat, full-flavored one, and boasted
openly. The men seemed not to notice it.
These things are, after all. purely a matter
of education.
Doolan sat on the mud floor of the veran-
dah with his back against* the wall. He was
wondering how long it would be before the
crowd would be drunk enough to make it
safe to work off some of the sour beer lie had
bought, for a mere song, as salvage from a
burnt-out confrere at Buckety Flat. Sud-
denly he cocked an ear like a terrier.
“In Hiven’s name,” he said, “what’s that
row ?”
“I don’t hear nuttin’,” growled one of the
card-players. “I make it same as larse time.
I don’t hear nuttin’.”
Doolan’s calculations had made him irrit-
able. “How the Hell can you expect to.
anyway, yapping like a lot of blasted dawgs?
Listen- there now.”
This time there was no gainsaving the ex-
traordinary noise that came at irregular in-
tervals. Even Doolan’s untrained ear recog-
nised something weirdly distressing in this
latest dislocation of the peace. While they
still _ speculated profanely as to its origin
the infernal clatter ceased abruptly; there
was a moment’s silence; then the' hessian
blind was hastily torn aside, and a short
globular apparition, with dejected whiskers
and dirty, fly-speckled countenance, precipi-
tated itself into their midst. “A bottle of
whisky AND the doctor. The doctor AND a
.... Oh. damn that woman—-what am I
saying? Where can I find Dr. Garret?”
“Good Lord!” ejaculated Doolan. “It’s
little Stubbs. What’s the matter now?”
“The missus is crook. I gotter fetch the
doctor back ’ome. Where’s Dr. Garret hang
out?” 6
One of the company rose unsteadily to his
feet. He was a large man and insufficiently
(Continued on next page.)


I
N
K
i
p
e»
/
Allkinds.of
Summer
SKIN
TROUBLES.
SUNBURN, BLISTERS, PRICKLY HEAT, SMARTING
PATCHES, INSECT BITES, ITCH 8 KINDRED SKIN
TROUBLES PROMPTLY HEALED BY ZAM-BUK.
IN summer the skin is made tender by
excessive perspiration ; and the badness
imprisoned in the tissue, owing to the
sluggishness of the pores, is drawn out in
the form of pimples, rashes and heat swellings.
The strong air of the country or the seaside
does not always suit the skin of the town
dweller, while a change of water frequently
induces a burning irritation and rash that is
even more discomforting than sunburnt and
peeling arms and face, because this irritation,
provokes rubbing and scratching, which opens
the way for eczema or some poisoned sore.
The best check to these skin troubles is the
regular use of Zam=Buk, which is a pure skin balm.
For removing that tingling irritation known as
Summer Itch, or Prickly Heat, Zam-Buk is invaluable.
Zam-Buk is also highly recommended for taking the sting and smarting
out of insect bites, for it not only soothes pain, but counteracts any
poison that may have been introduced into the system.
Zam-Buk has achieved a world-wide reputation for purity and
effectiveness.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
SUMMER RASH.
Mrs. L. Switzer, of Ethel Street, For-
restville, Adelaide, says: “Overheating of
the blood caused a nasty rash to break
out at different periods on the back of
my neck. This was very irritable, and it
was a matter of difficulty to keep my
hands from it. My mother, who always
used Zam-Buk in the home, recommended
me to - try this balm. 1 did so, and in a
short time the rash was completely
ended.
“My sister has also been cured of skin
eruptions by Zam-Buk. ’’
SUNBURN CAUSED BUSTERS.
Mrs. A. Lamplough, of High Street,-
Chelmer Hill, Mount Morgan (Q.), says:
“One day during the holidays my boy,
who had been swimming, complained of
a nasty pain on his back and shoulders.
On examining him I found that the sun
had bmjnt him so badly that the skin was
hanging in water blisters, and the poor
lad could not bear the -weight of his
clothes on him. After picking the blisters
I applied Zam-Buk all over his back, and
in a week the smarting and soreness had
quite gone away.”
For all Summer Skin Troubles, as well as the minor everyday
accidents that happen in every home, Zam-Buk is Invaluable.
1/6
and
3/6
PER
l POT.
gfd
rub
IT
IN
9,
Slip the
Strop through
the Razor
Move the
Ra2or to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only, those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily—
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
AuioStrop
Safety Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk; and its specie
construction eliminates the necessity of constau
blade renewals, and the time and trouble i
cleaning which every other safety razor involve
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—The word “VALET” on RAZORS,
STROPS and BLADES indicates the genuine product of the
Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., ltd., 61 New Oxford Street,
liondon.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compris-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safetyrazor, first quality
‘Valet’’ horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancet steel tested
"Valet” blades, the
whole n handsome
leather- covered or
nickel case, lined*
veluet and satin*
;22/6
fgd
clad. His speech lacked coherency. “’s my
name.” He blinked solemnly upon the trav-
eller. “’s my name, li’le man. Wha’s
marrer?”
Mi\ Stubbs regarded the flabby, unshaven
face before him with open disfavor. It was
obvious that the doctor was very drunk
indeed. Mr. Stubbs, unversed in diplomacy,
said as much.
The accused spluttered indignantly.
“Drunk? Me drunk? Why, you little
runt” He shook a hairy fist in the other's
face.
Doolan interposed coldly. “Of course,
you’re drunk. You always are drunk, if it
comes to that.” He turned to Stubbs. “What
d’ye want with ’im, anyway?”
• “Ter fetch him back ’ome with me; soon’s
the ole mare’s had a feed. • I tell you he’s
engaged all proper and reg’lar. The missus
bespoke ’im munts ago. He’s gotter come.”
“Wha’s her name?” inquired the doctor,
with dignity.
“Stubbs. Missus Henery Stubbs; out
Dry-pool way.”
“Condition?”
“Why, dammit”
“One min’, my fren’.” The doctor fumbled
inside bis vest and produced a ragged note-
book. “Thish ’s mosh irreg’lar. Lesli be
calm. Now, wattle you bet I’m not ri’, eh?”
He fumbled the leaves hazily. “Sinclair’s
cow. Drench, one shill’n’. Miss Jones,
rheumatism; profeshn’l services, 2s. 6d.
Thash not it. Here you are. Missus Stubbs,
expectin’. Now when”—the doctor wagged
a finger at Doolan—“when d’you suppose she
fixed it?”
“How the blazes do I know?” exploded
the publican. “And what's that got to do
with it, anyway?”
“Not for nuzzer fortnight,” said the doctor
with triumph. “There’sh no argument.
Lesli has some’in’ to drink.”
“Are you coming, or are you not?”
squeaked Mr. Stubbs, hysterically.
“No, I’m not. There’sh such a thing as
profeshn’l etiquette, ain’t there?”
“Profeshn’l etiquette be jiggered,” snapped
Doolan. “You make, me tired. Make no
error; you'll go.”
“You’re only a silly layman,” retorted the
doctor. “And I tell you I won’t.”
“Then you can go and sponge for board
somewhere else,” said the publican. “You
owe me two-pound-ten for grub and beer, and
you gotter earn it. Or out you go; now
then.”
“Well, then, gimme a drink, and I will.”
The doctor lapsed into sullen grumbling.
“But ish most unprofeshn’l; I take these
igcnTmOn to witnesh ish most unprofes-
sional.”
“It’s all right,” said Doolan, reassuringly,
to the dubious Stubbs. “His top-piece is
clear enough, though you mightn’t think it.
Matter of fact, lie’s better half-shickered
than most of them sort is sober. He fixed
Hogan’s poddy a treat larse night.”
A scant half-hour afterwards the old mare
was harnessed afresh for the homeward
trip. Dr. Garret hoisted himself unsteadily
over the ivlieel and fell into the back seat,
where he went to sleep.
“Well, s’long!” said Doolan, as the trav-
ellers moved off. “Hope it’s all right with
the missus. And say, when he puts ’is bill
in, you might pay it to me. I’ll see it’s all
right. And, fer Gawd’s sake, grease them
wheels o’ yourn.”
For ten minutes, perhaps, Mr. Stubbs
drove steadily onward. Then, suddenly, he
jerked the mare to a standstill with a vio-
lence which brought his passenger’s head
over the rail of the seat in angry protest.
“Wassermarrer—driving like that?”
“Damn that woman!” Mr. Stubbs’s voice
rose in a wail of anguish. “I kep’ thinkin’
all the time that there was sutliin’ else. I
fergot the whisky.”
“Goo’ thing, whisky. Snlen’id thing.” The
doctor subsided drowsily again. “W’at’ll we
do about it?”
Mr. Stubbs stared hopelessly in front of
him. Suddenly he appeared to make up his
mind.
“Look here, if I walk back fer it will you
mind the mare? If I don’t get it I’ll ’ear
about it fer a week.”
“All ri’. All ri’. Don’t be long.” The
doctor’s voice trailed off into sleepy silence.
Mr. Stubbs looked doubtfully about him
for a minute, then climbed out of his seat
and trudged painfully back. The old mare’s
head sank lower and lower in the blazing sun.
The doctor’s inoutli was wide open, and the
ceaseless drone of the flies was punctuated
by an occasional defiant snore. Presently,
zig-zagging through the air, came an object
which rapidly resolved itself into a swarm of
bees. Now it was overhead. A dozen bees,
separating themselves from the humming
cloud, circled for a second about the mare’s
hindquarters; then, moved by goodness
knows what phase of insect curiosity, effected
a lodgment upon the ragged wisp of tail.
At once things began to happen. Startled, the
- mare backed a step and shook herself
roughly. Instantly half a hundred red-hot
darning-needles pierced her ancient hide, and,
mad with pain and fear, she bolted. It was
a brief display. A hundred yards along a
wheel struck a gum-stump, the mare
swung half-round and pitched sideways
across the shafts, which went with a
snap. For a second she lay, kicking furi-
ously ; then she tore herself loose frpm the
wreckage and disappeared, in a scatter of
dust and bees. After that there was silence
once more.
Mr. Stubbs, plodding wearily back with a
bottle of overproof whiskv under his arm,
rubbed bis eyes in bewilderment as he neared
the legitimate end of his tramp. Muttering
to himself, he surveyed the barren landscape
in dazed fashion till his eye suddenly took
in an ominous heap near a patch of saplings.
Shrieking a malediction he broke into a
run. A belated bee. furious at missing
active service in the recent engagement, met
him as he charged and planted his sting
with precision. But Mr. Stubbs hardly
noticed it. With bulging eyes he surveyed
the untidy wreckage before him. Then he
remembered the doctor and dived frantically
at a pair of legs that protruded from under
the pile.
He was a small man, but despair lent
him strength, and the remainder of the
doctor’s body came out into the open with
a rush. To Mr. Stubbs’s surprise the man
was uninjured. In his relief he shook the
disreputable figure with a violence that did
credit to his outraged feelings.
“What have you bin and done to my
trap?’’ he shouted. “What have you bin
and done to my trap?”
The doctor opened his eyes and closed
them again wearily.
“Go away, li’le man,” he murmured. “By
gosh, what a storm! Go away, li’le man."
“Storm! On a day like this! Talk
sense.”
“Washn’t there a storm?” demanded the
doctor. “Mean to tell me there washn’t a
storm, li’le man?”
“Oh, what’s the good of arguin’?” Mr.
Stubbs mopped his streaming face with the
sleeve of his shirt. “Come on, then —we
gotter walk if it takes us a fortnight. Lord
knows what’s going to be the end of this; I
don’t.”
“My fren’, I’m a sick man. What'll you
For once Mr. Stubbs had a flash of in-
spiration.
“Will you come if I give you a drink,
then, damn yer?”
“My fren’, your diagnos’s correct.
Couldn’t have hit it better myself.” The
doctor’s good nature recovered itself even
as his hand grasped the bottle. “Li’le man,
you’re a sport. Now let’s get a wriggle
on.”
Arm in arm (it was the doctor’s sugges-
tion) the untidy pair took up the burden
of their task. The doctor’s air was one of
grave professional concern, slightly marred,
it must be confessed, by sudden, frequent
lapses into his former attitude of indecision.
At such times Mr. Stubbs, to whom the
whole business was in the nature of, a
dreadful nightmare, would threaten and
cajole, to no apparent purpose. Only by
instant resort to liquid argument could
he induce the diabolical creature at bis
side to forego his loudly-proclaimed inten-
tion of returning to Coon’s Gap. Indeed,
with every step of the way it became in-
creasingly evident that the doctor’s endur-
ance of his plighted word was, in some
mysterious manner, based upon the contents
of the bottle under his arm.
It was after dark when they reached the
end of the journey. The Voice met them
at the door with a shrill volley of abuse.
“What have you bin up to? Cornin’ ’ome
like this here, at this time of night. You
can thank your stars; Stubbs, you ain’t .
branded Cain tins night. Only fer me being
on hand....and fighting, too —my goodness,
look at the man’s nose.”
“Lemme see my patient,” demanded the
doctor. “Damme, I didn’t come here to
listen to this! What’s his nose to me? I
shay, lemme see the patient.”
“Oh, you can come in, if you like,” said
the woman, wearily. “The baby come an
hour ago, but there’s no ’arm in ’aving a
look at ’er, I s’pose. It’s not me will foot
the bill. And small thanks to either of you
she’s all right. Call yourself a father, do
you, Stubbs?”
As the doctor disappeared into the dimly-
lit room beyond, Mr. Stubbs, with whom
the limit of endurance had long since
passed, retired raving into the background.
On the, still night air the words of his fer-
vent and oft-repeated petition lost nothing
of emphasis:
“Damn that woman!"
The hills and rocks caught up the sound
and sent it echoing between the trees till
it died away in a blasphemous murmur. It
was the requiem of the little man’s final
repudiation of human benevolence. Then
silence resumed her sway.
Two hours later the midsummer moon rose
resplendently over the tree-tops, tinging the
landscape with a mellow radiance. It laid
ghostly fingers upon the little house and
shone white upon a scrap of pape.r fastened
crookedly upon a wall of the skillion : —-
11. Stubbs, Esq.
To Dr. James Garret.
Professional Attendance .... £3 3 0
P.g.—lf you haven’t the cash I don’t mind taking
a yearling heifer out of that dun cow of yours, if
you’ll deliver it at Doolan’s for me.
Now it crept on across the barren ridges
of the plain. Beneath its genial touch the-
shadows broke away and vanished into sil-
very nothingness. All except one heavy blot
that resolved itself into the figure of a man
plodding unsteadily over the rough ground
in the direction of Coon’s Gap. He was a
large man and insufficiently clothed, but
he sang as he went, and waved an object
that glistened seductively in the moonlight.
BERNARD CRONIN.
The Ballad of the Skeleton.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM the nude that has never a blush,
For shames and tremors I’m all too
bare;
The dfooping lashes, the sudden flush,
And the breath a-flutter with passion’s
flare—
I have dropped all these for the steady stare
And the grin at a joke that never will pall.
For the attitude brazenly debonair,
And I have the best of it, after all.
The heart’s commotion, the blood’s hot rush,
And the dimpled'cloak that I used to wear —
The rich flesh glowingly warm and lush —
It is dust to dust. It is grave-worm’s fare.
And I ask myself: Do I really care?
The worms are welcome to keep their haul,
Death’s sombre menace is mostly scare,
And I have the best of it, after all.
In the crowded earth, in the graveyard’s
crush,
I have shed such trifles as lips and hair.
I have shed my follies and freaks and gush,
And much that my vanity thought was fair;
But I’ve gained a sense of the humorous
there,
And a chaste, white body none craves to
maul,
•Intense sincerity, candor rare,
And I have the best of it, after all.
*
Envoy.
Sister, laugh if you wish....and dare:
Your flesh is a rose. . . .and the roses fall;
I unto you am as wheat to tare,
And I have the best of it, after all.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


Westinghome (Cross) Oil Engines
J
=»
CD
w»>,r,w;77rr777777r/r?77T*Tm —
10-h.p. Oil Engine driving Air Compressor at 650 r.p.m.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Brisbane,
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simple in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate,
Rugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARBURETTER to Give Trouble.
Lubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Engines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquiries will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
The Westinghouse Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West, N.S.W.
[2
gfd
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves sper cent, on
Automobile
Fire insurance.
Price 55/ ■ each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
61b.; Height, 14"
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers anti Agents. Please write.
g
Hurrai
Here’s
relief from
thirst; here’s
fresh vigour
for the boys
at the Front
workers at
ImA
WkM
fdg
fd
Soothes, refreshes,
and sustains through
weary hours of sus-
pense and struggle.
It helps appetite and di-
gestion too. Delicious and
antiseptic wholesome and
beneficial.
A boon to smokers. Send some
packets or a box to your soldier
lad.
3d. per packet of 5 big bars at Chemists.
Confectioners, etc., or send 3 penny
stamps for trial packet to J. C. Gambles
& Coy, Commerce House, Melbourne,
Tihe U Flavour Lasts !
MADE
IN
AUSTRALIA
gfd
Sealed
tight
—Kept
right
gf
Chew
it after
every
meal
as
(A
7A
* a
75
%
\
r
/
A
n
/
“an enemy in our midst ”
INDIGESTION
7a
IT CAN BE DEALT WITH
BY A JUDICIOUS USE OF
BEECHAMS PILES
WHICH EXPEL UNDESIRABLE ELEMENTS.
dg
fd
For easy tube screwing in cramped quarters,
for fast and accurately-cut work, use
OSTER
RATCHET
SCREWING
TACKLE
with the 5 famous Bulldog features: (1) Self-locking, adjustable guides,
(2) self-centring guides, (3) no running back over newly-cut threads,
(4) no loose bushings, (5) no small parts. Ask your ironmonger,
machinery, hardware or plumbing-supply maker, or write
CHAS. WRIGHT, Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria,
Australasian Representative for
THE OSTER MFG. CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
[l
The Bulletin
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
V
We Specialise in Sundries
for the Explosive Engine.
If you possess a Motor-car, Motor-boat, Motor-
cycle, Portable or Stationary Engine, or Aeroplane,
whether propelled by Petrol, Oil or Gas,
we can supply you with all the necessary fitments to
make it go better for less expense.
Sparking Plugs! Sparking Plugs!!
<r. :
LODGE SPARKING PLUGS, in Metric, }£in. taper, Jin. x 18in. 5/- each.
Weatherproof, in Metric only, 0/- each. Special Racing, 7/0 each.
CHAMPION SPARKING PLUGS, the equipment of
SO per cent, of the cars made in America. A plug for
every make of car. In Metric, %in., Jin. x 18in.
Ford “X” 2/0, Regular 3/-, Overland 3/8, Hy.
Duty 5/-, Reliance (Sparks in water) 5/6 each.
g
REFLEX SPARKING PLUGS. A splendidly made
plug. Will not foul with oil, soot or carbon. Once tried
always used. Ford Special 2/9, Torpedo 8/-, Giant
Reflex, 4/- each.
Illustrated List describing all these plugs in detail free.
Send for other Lists.
Country Garages write to us. We will put you on the
right track.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd-
-304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. u
v Pi


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGROVIT
LEATHER
mE
SEO
wirioh is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
fdfd
What Every Engineer and
Blacksmith should have—
Buffalo 200-Geared
HAND BLOWER
The Blower that gives a stronger blast with less effort to
operate than any other Hand Blower on the market.
It increases your earning capacity.
It reduces shop expenses.
It saves physical strength.
Write for Booklet, “Hand Blowers and Forges.”
“5* PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machiner;
Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
DICK’S BA LATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17- ldt
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ .time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD/E & CO..
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY JLTD., Newcastle.
HOIH)
m m is
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
“REGRINDING VALVE,"
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT."
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent ** Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Ou t Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
THE TURBON PATENT FAN
IS DISTINCTIVE IN DESIGN AND
UNEQUALLED IN EFFICIENCY
For Forced and Induced Draft and Mine Ventilation
ADOPTED BY MOUNT MORGAN G. M. CO.
and ASSOCIATED SMELTERS, PORT PIRIE.
Immediate Delivery from Sydney Stocks.
SOLE AGENTS:
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.
189 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Warburton, Frank!, Limited
Electrical and Mechanical Engineers,
309 Kent St., Sydney; 380 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Stocks
Dynamos
Motors
Wires & Cables
Accumulators
Blackman Fans
Semi-Diesel Engines
Electrical Goods of All Description.
ml
m
/Ci
ALL BRITISH MADE
IN IMPROVEMENTS THE
LISTER LEADS.
iifcr -iHiiii
'l
THE LATEST
Sole Agents .
for Australia
DAN GAR, GEDYE £ C?, U D .
SYDNEY
Keystone Portable Well-Drilling and Prospecting Machine
DOWNIE DEEP-WELL PUMPS.
Keystone Machines are largely used throughout Australasia and have won golden opinions
from operators. Keystone Catalogues are very comprehensive and give valuable information
on deep drilling.
Australasian Agents and Manufacturers—
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building,
350 George Street, Sydney.
