

THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
LISTEN!
Our Brave Australian Boys are Calling for YOUR HELP!
The traditions of your race demand a willing and nobie response.
Will you fail them in this hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF \OUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS "IT ¥ f CT ?
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written. ' ¥ w J. •
R-. G. WATKINS (Qi CO.. Iron and Machinery Merchants) 107 Kent Street, Sydney.
IHB
A\or?ey
on all classes of
security
Trade Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “DAILY TELEGRAPH” NEW BUILDING
And at .
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager
V
f Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty”
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN J
K
“A-Great Record!”
HUTTON’S
. -** PINEAPPLE ” BRAND
45 YEARS THE BEST
Hams & Bacon
RAWSON
MOODY ALL-STEEL FENCE
nd wire,
over wooden
erection
built wdth powerful steel >
possessing wonderful advantages
post fences, as it saves 80 per cent, in' ,
labor and weighs only 25 per cent, of the wo/ 0 ’
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For full particulars write to The Rawson Moody Mfg, Co., 343 Kent St.,
Sydney, or send for an Illustrated Catalogue B.
JUNKET made from these geuuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious s*nd invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S E NS
Ji
nket
For INDIGESTION
an* i DYSPEPSIA
One of theso specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken da.iy after
meals.
Awarded 15© First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
“Nat the same as oti*.C rs ‘
P. & B. Building; Paper —a perfect lining:.
You can absolutely rely on P. &B. Building Paper as a lining for roofs, walls and floors. It is proof against draughts, moisture and dust, retards
sound travelling, is odorless, wonderfully lasting—and makes a home comfortable in the severest weathers.
USE MALTHOID ROOFING
costs less than half the price of galvanised iron—and is far better.
Write for samples and booklet, post free.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L ?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL fit AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL & FARM WAGGONS. IRON &i MALLEABLE CASTINGS. SHREDDER DISCS.
Arthur
MACHINERY.
DENBY MOTOR LORRIES
Selected by America's Chief Post Office, New York, as THE BEST.
Several 2%-Ton Models STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: THE QUAY , SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street.
GILBERT LODGE & CO.
109 Pitt Street. Sydney. 115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. Q. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
NORTH BRITISH LOCOiTOTIVE CO. LTD.
WM. COOKE & CO. LTD.
BROWN BAYLEY’S STEEL WORKS LTD.
CHANCE BROS. LTD.
WEBSTER & BENNETT.
TOOTH Gives a Sense of Clean
A Concentrated Perfume
ttiUiluiiwtiitfaui
CPCT/MUC
LAVENDER
The Bulletin
Y01.38.--No. 1958.]
[Thursday, August 23, 1917.
Kegisterest at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


Books Answering Sex Problems
PLAIN FACTS ON SEX HYGIENE, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, posted. 3/8.
CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH GIRLS, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, p. 3/8.
CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH BOYS, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, p. 3 8.
BREATHE AND BE WELL, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, p. 3/8.
HERSELF. Talks with Women Concerning Themselves. 6/6, p. 6/9.
TRUTHS. Talks with a Boy Concerning Himself, by Lowry. 3/6, p. 3/8
FALSE MODESTY. By Dr. E. B. Lowry. 3/6, p. 3/8.
CONFIDENCES. Talks with a Young Girl, by Dr. E. B. Lowry. 3/6, p.3/8.
CONFIDENTIAL TALKS WITH YOUNG WOMEN, by L.B. Sperry. 4/-, p. 4/3
CONFIDENTIAL TALKS AVITH YOUNG MEN, by L. B. Sperry. 4/-, p. 4/3.
WHAT A YOUNG BOY OUGHT TO KNOAV, by S. Stall. 5/-, p. 5/2.
WHAT A YOUNG MAN OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 3/-, p 5/2
WHAT A YOUNG HUSBAND OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/- p 5/2
MYSTERY OF THE SEXES (Buzzacott). 6/6, p. 6/9.
WHAT A YOUNG GIRL OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, p. 5/2
WHAT A AVOMAN OF 45 OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, p. 5/2
WHAT A YOUNG GIRL OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, p. 5/2.
HEALTH AND HAPPINESS. A Message to Girls, by E. M. Mosher. 3/6, p. 3/9
Tokology
A BOOK
FOR EVERY
WOMAN,
By
A. B. STOCKHAM.
10/6, posted 10/9.
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George St., Sydney; and at Bourke St., Melbourne.
HUDSON'S'ISr'
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
Contains no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption,
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive
evidenct of the value of “Eumenthol Jujubes as
an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says: “Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, or POST FREE ON RECEIPT OF 1/6 STAMPS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney.
Agencies in all the Australian States, Xew Zealand, and at 320 Recent Street. London. rfi
a
A —The Larynx,
or organ of voice.
B — The Trachea,
or windpipe-
The Bronchia*
Tubes of » ®
sected lung.
D—The lobe of
one of the lungs.
The Red Page
The Snoopopathic Novel
In his latest book Stephen Leacock de-
scribes the Snoopopathic novel, and Marie
Bjelke iias obligingly written one,
The Drfpfrive and Stoughton,
f ds 4 jDytfiock’s ,On page 2 “Lady
Maud pernyftleA. her casUy fan to drop to
hep pale-bMifiriilk knees,; sand further on we
fcem that iio "oitii but a gentleman could walk
tho way the. hero. is a sugges-
tion of Eton sr Also the heroine’s
“superb youn& head slink down on the win-
dow-sill and long, dry sobs shook her splendid
form.” She is an adept at speaking with
©old and, * occasionally, freezing hauteur;
and even the silences between them pulsate
with deep, wonderful meaning. However,
the hero is always ready to steady her trem-
bling form with the steely strength of his
arm. As for the villain, the heroine can
always be depended upon to measure him
with a cold, haughty glance. As there is
an earl in the yarn it is almost superfluous
to state that his clothes are immaculate,
from his silk hat to his perfectly-shaped
boots, and that when he rings a door-bell he
does it deliberately.
But; the love-making is even more serump-
tiously snoopopathic. When he said thickly,
“Iris, 1 shall take you in my arms if you
stay here an instant longer,” “the girl did
not stir.” Accordingly “he crushed her to
his breast. .. .Dazed, bewildered by the ex-
cruciating sweetness of contact she lifted her
face, only to encounter his, and their lips
met in a long kiss.” However, he had been
about five chapters leading up to that kiss.
When “she swayed in his arms” he released
her immediately, “but she clung to him sud-
denly, desperately.” Iris is a young woman
with a purpose. She starts with the inten-
tion of comforting her despairing lover—
this is, of course, after the usual lovers’ mis-
understanding—and she does not allow her
purpose to be thwarted. So “she leant
slightly towards him and placed one hand
shyly on his head.... She had determined
to overcome her own emotions in order to
comfort him. So now* she moved her hand
caressingly through his thick, smooth hair
and gradually drew* his head down to her
lap... .She felt him thrill t 6 her touch. His
stony despair was breaking up; life was
coming back to him.... Suddenly lie buried
his face in her lap, and she felt his strong
frame shake....she breathed more quickly;
then all at once she drew his upturned face
to her breast... .and she pillowed it gently
over her fluttering heart.” Was it remark-
able that he faltered at last, “Iris, this is
heaven!”
“Does it make you feel better?” she asked
eagerly. However, w r hen for a moment her
lips touched his hair, the hero had a glimpse
of sanity. He asked her not to waste a kiss
like that, and raising his face said: “Let it
be mine as well as yours.” She drew back
quickly. “I —I —didn’t think you felt it,”
she stammered confusedly. He replied that
he felt it in every part of him. Well, they
share the hero’s bluey in a cave in the Tas-
manian mountains. And w T hen he kisses her
good-night, though she had to remind him
about it, she feels a tinge of disappointment
.and thinks: “If only he would hold me a
little differently—as he held me before,” and
wonders why his heart beats in that strange
manner, as if it longed to throb fiercely,
madly, but w r as held in check by some re-
straining curb? In the morning Iris found
that “the thick wavy masses of her hair were
billowing over her lover’s shoulder.” All her
hairpins had fallen out. She found a few
of them down his neck. The chaperone, when
she heard about it, merely remarked : “If I
did not know Iris I should be scandrriG.
So would this page.
When nr--'
< •' ' • V : ■ • - • ■
-rijfc A sJ . ..-• ‘-y
. . . . : , • ...
Hsfe ;,' ■ JJgT ~. V'
._».jus snoopopa-
-.o uer first book, for there
for Snoopopathics.
J*
Elinor Glyn has proved this. The Career
of Katherine Bush (Duckworth, per Dymock’s
Library) is titillatingly snoopopathic. Elinor
Glyn regards the aristocracy with the abject
reverence of the lower classes. She exactly
adumbrates the viewpoint of the servants’
hall, confident that her readers are also
endowed with that delicious outlook. She
has chosen this moment when that old aris-
tocracy has given place to something finer to
introduce us to the titled personages of the
serials in Sydney Daily Telegraph. Con-
sidered un-snoopopathically this novel is a
kind of correspondence class on how to be-
come a duchess. Her heroine, a typist, starts
on her upward course by deliberately going
for a w’eek-end in Paris with a youthful lord.
She chooses a lord in order to acquire gen-
teel polish. At the end of that chapter “she
had mastered all the shades of what three
days’ most intimate companionship with a
gentleman could mean.... And once she had
not known the difference between linen and
cotton!”
That is the first lesson to be learnt by
the typist desiring a comfortable position
as a duchess —learn the difference between
linen and cotton by having a week-end with
—say, a stockbroker, at Manly. The second
lesson for aspiring duchesses is to know your
Debrctt and to read Otto Weininger’s Sex
and Character . Katherine Bush learnt from
that book that she must watch the feminine
traits in herself and crush them. “If I have
no soul, I have a brain and a will, and so
I am going to obtain as much as a woman
can get with those two things.” The third
lesson is to prostitute your sex, to work it
for all it is worth in order to get all you
want from men without feeling under any
obligation to repay them in kind. Soon you
will get a position as secretary to a society
leader, and having picked your man you will
look straight into his eyes and speak to him
in your deep, alluring voice. Katherine took
the precaution of waving her hair first. Of
course your victim will want to seduce you;
that is.’ at least, exciting, especially if you
are in your nighty. You can “draw your-
self up to your full height, and if the scorn
of your eyes could kill, he would have lain
there dead at your feet.” Even if he calls
you “Beautiful fiend,” your words can “cut
him like a knife,” and ever after that he will
be your best friend. Anyhow, all this is bet-
ter than remaining a typist. The next lesson
is to please women, and to avoid attracting
attention to yourself by being seen with
eligible men. You must wait like Katherine
until “some one man appears upon the scene,
the securing of whom would be your definite
goal—then you could pursue your aim with-
out the stumbling-block of female antago-
nism.” And when you rnejst the man you
must* look straight into his eyes the way you
do when you intend to compel attention.
Katherinq’s duke is of course “abnormally
distinguished looking in evening dress,” and
his face is clean-cut. And you should talk
to your duke as Katherine does: “We, the
middle-class population, shut in with. our
narrow parochial views, do not realise it at
all, or we would be very proud of our race
holding such glorious country houses, and
would not want to encourage stupid, paltry
politicians to destroy and dissipate them all
and scatter them to the winds.” The final
lesson is to cultivate a habit of making your
nostrils quiver, which dukes—and, maybe,
stockbrokers—regard as a sign of tremen-
dous potentialities of passion in a woman.
Elinor Glyn has a wide public. We shall
probably see a procession of nice typists
starting out to-morrow for week-ends with
nice-mannered young men on their way to
become duchesses. If they fail to snare a
duke, at least they will have had some ex-
citement in their lives.
How to Read
The bright idea has occurred to J. B.
Iverfoot to teach a fiction-reading public
How to Read (Constable, per Dymock’s
Library). His directions occupy 300 pages.
“From tlie beginning of time, right down
until about 10 years ago, no man ever lived
who could tell another man a story. Moses
couldn’t. Homer couldn’t. Dante couldn’t.
Dickens couldn’t. Even Conan Doyle
couldn’t. The best that the very best of
them ever succeeded in doing was to trick,
or to coax, or to compel their readers or their
hearers into telling stories to themselves.”
The first man who has told another man a
story since the woi'ld began is the movrn-
man. Every story has been wvH*-r
movies of our irdr' /, ~ t ' :■% ao;
but an ri'’ Vr^-gll
'■■■ : : ••>:•• mb vf Av- equipment of our own
_ rtixat we
smelled and tasted
. —with the emotions we have had,
uie observations we have made, the sympa-
thies we have developed, and with the preju-
dices we have failed to rid ourselves 0f....
For reading consists of our making—with the
aid of the pattern and the hints supplied by
the author, but out of our mental stock —
something that never existed before; some-
thing that only exists at all in so far as we
make it; something that can never be dupli-
cated by any other reader; something that
we ourselves, can never wholly reproduce.”
The ingenious J. B. Kerfoot also proves
that no man can tell us the meaning of a
word, and that the dictionary is the very
last place in which you will find this infor-
mation. Its function is merely to define the
root-ideas, the type-notions, the lowest com-
mon denominations of grouped meanings, for
which words, by long usage and slow devel-
opment, have come to stand. Words without
context do not possess definite meanings: they
merely stand for generalised ideas. And the
main portion of that context from which we
derive the meaning of every word is the in-
dividual reader’s mind. Words are but push-
buttons. When we press them they call up
notions in other minds.
d*
His elaborate analysis of the act of read-
ing proves that the separate words on a
page of print correspond exactly to the
separate pictures of a movie film. We read
at about the rate of five words to the
second ; the cinematograph flings us 20 pic-
tures per second; and in both cases each
word (or picture) is stationary before our
moving eyes just long enough for us to feel
the flavor of its significance, but is always
immediately abandoned for the next word
(or picture) which qualifies or is qualified
bv the previous one. If we slow down
either the film or our reading we instantly
destroy the cinematographic effect of the
merged series. The author does not mention
an interesting proof of his theory* Most
writers must have noticed how lonely and
strange and aloof any simple word appears
when idly written, without context, on a
sheet of paper. When thus immobile before
our eyes even its spelling seems wrong: we
are looking at a stationary film. Another
proof of the author's theory that we tell
ourselves the stories we read is found when
we first read a novel in an unillustrated edi-
tion, and then chance to come across the
same story illustrated. We will find that
though the author’s scenario was apparently
quite explicit to us, the illustrator has staged
and cast it all jvrong. His picture of the
heroine is not at all our picture; his arrange-
ment of the scenery is quite different from
the pictures of it we had built up inside our
brains. Instead of the novel being our novel
it has strangely become the illustrator’s.
The story that he got out of the same
scenario is a story that we failed to dis-
cover in it —at least, in many details. A
novelist tells a different story to every one of
his readers. “The printed matter before
your eyes—whether it be on a signboard, or
on the front sheet of the paper, or on a
page of an exciting novel, or in the para-
graph that you are now reading—is never a
thing in itself, but is always merely printed
instructions, like sheet music." The signs
are merely instructions as to what to do with
our memories and our imaginations, our
reason and our understanding, in order to
create inside ourselves the story or the poem,
just as a musical score tells the trombonist
what to do with his trombone. In reading,
every word is given a personal meaning by
each individual reader.
Having thoroughly grasped these elemen-
tary principles, the reader will now be able
to learn to read. The author explains fully
the method. And in a chapter for the
advanced student he actually lets him into
the secret of “How- to Read a Novel.” The
concluding keenly analytical chapters _ are
of absorbing interest; and the book is a
brilliant exploration of a subject hitherto
untouched in literature. It is an indispen-
sable text-book for literary critics. Other
people don’t need to learn to read.
Australian
Vol. 10 of the first series of Historical
Records of Australia (Commonwealth Par-
liament Library Committee) deals further
with the Governorship of Lachlan Macquarie,
covering the period Jan., 1819—Dec., 1822.
In the introduction Fredk. Watson discusses
Macquarie’s influence on the judicial and
convict systems of the infant colony. M«r
quarie endeavored in vain to secure -
cipists the right to praori r in ■f -rr
Court. Tim -- ■ . <■"
to
•'Wives of convicts frrquatuiy hfllaW;
■ ■ trie .-;>1
'.V -• "*•'* Wi * ‘ '•«. * • * ' ’
- .. • t .> • •. —i.ei •*. >au uicn,
. hr ;; a 'xkiv sti’n. A.
Aj 1/1
. cn-aon holds that
—m of management of eon-
- auu his policy with regard to emanci-
pists were hurtful to the progress of the
colony. The exercise of unlimited authority
for 12 years made the autocrat even more
autocratic. Macquarie failed to recognise
that the colony was in a transition state,
emerging from an isolated penal settlement
to a growing colony awaiting methodical
development; and he refused to encourage a
free population, as distinct from the emanci-
pist class. Probably the most important
result of Macquarie’s administration was
the fact that it made the British Ministry
realise that a government by one man,
unaided and with autocratic powers, was no
longer feasible in the colony. The other
projected volumes of this series have been
indefinitely postponed.
J*
Goldenia: a Lyrical Drama in One Act, by
F. .T. Forrester (the Waratah Plays, Philip,
Sydney), is not lyrical, is not a drama, but
is in one act.
A*
Sydney Wyndham Fitzlierbert, an Auck-
land barrister, issues an open letter to M.L.
entitled Service versus Robbery (Abel,
Dykes, Auckland, M.L.; 35.). His theory
for the millennium, in which Capital will lie
down with Labor-Capital snugly inside —is
a simple one. “We must remove the power
of the landlord, the mortgagee and the share-
holder to receive rent, interest and divi-
dends.” This would have ‘to be done by re-
pealing the laws that have given these eani
talists their rewards. “In their place laws
must be passed prohibiting the payment or
receipt of rent, interest or dividends. B’ur
ther, laws must be passed converting all
joint-stock companies into co-partnershin
firms, in which all profits would be divided
amongst the workers of the companies"
Other important forms of Usury, such as
national and municipal debts, would have to
be destroyed by simple repudiation. The
capitalist being thus abolished, he would
have to work for his living. The wages of
the worker, living in a rent-free cottage and
collecting his share of the profits of his work-
shop, would rise enormously. “In spending
this money he employs workers elsewhere."
And as other workers have also received in-
creased incomes, there is an increased de-
mand for the goods produced by the original
worker. Therefore the profits of his work-
shop are increased; and in spending those
profits lie stimulates other industries. By
repudiating our public debt, the millions sent
out of the country to pay interest are distrib-
uted here, still further increasing the demand
for workers. As everybody from the mill-
owner to tHe Government is bidding against
everybody else, the price at which the worker
sells iiis labor rises until all industries are
forced to work on a co-partnership basis. It
is a beautiful scheme ; and the author’s argu-
ment leading to this revolution is both origi-
nal and succinct.
“Harrison O.”: Vance Palmer speaks a
great truth when he says (Red Page,
28/6/T7) : “It is necessary for any civilised
community to have a class of independent
writers. They are the watchdogs of the
nation, and even the dog must have its
bone.” Owing to a paucity of bone, Aus-
tralia is practically without these watch-
dogs. The Commonwealth requires at least
half a dozen independent writers to give
their own thoughts upon big national ques-
tions, and not the views of commonplace
newspaper proprietors or editors. England
has writers like Wells, Shaw and Gals-
worthy, who may not have been responsi-
ble for any specific legislative enactment or
any special policy, but have certainly helped
to stimulate English thought and to influ-
ence the sort of public opinion that counts
in the long run. These men are shackled to
no political party or party newspaper; the
ideas they circulate are their own. In Aus-
tralia we have several writers richly
endowed to hold a similar position, but they
are gagged, by reason of the fact that they
must, to some extent, rely upon journalism
—and a particularly stodgy, uninspired type
of journalism —for a living. As journalists
they merely prattle in ink in conformity
with the alleged “policy” of the rag with
which they happen to be associated. If the
Australian writing industry had been ad-
equately protected in the past, Randolph
Bedford (let us say) might have become so
well known to his countrymen as a writer
of books that a newspaper editor would
think twice before turning down an article
from him on a big public question, even
though the views expressed might not con-
form in all respects with the n-- '
cious “policy.” Tb p
and re 0 '*'
, an - tfse discerning reader
be'- better aide so appreriari. tb'
... wfiof!?* • i-; ... ...
puoiisher of The
and of “The Little Books
vji. Georgian Verse,” has hit upon a promising
scheme to bring into touch modern poetry
and modern poetry lovers. This is “The
Malory Fellowship,” two of whose objects
arc to insure against the threatened
bouleversement of literary publication in
war time, and to anticipate the chang-
ing conditions under which books will
be produced and distributed. Erskine
MacDonald states that the tendency > 8
for the little book of poetry to super-
sede the novel, and he has the happy
hope of seeing his fledgling poets among the
best sellers. It is by means of a large mem-
bership both of authors and of poetry readers
in this fellowship that Erskine MacDonald
hopes to achieve this boon. Members for a
small subscription receive various benefits,
such as The Poetry Review for a reduced
subscription, advice on book production, fel-
lowship bulletins, books and lists. There is
a public both in this continent and in Britain
for modern verse, and the scheme aims at
bringing this public and the poet together.
Anybody interested should address the secre-
tary of the Malory Fellowship, Malory
House, Featherstone Buildings. London,
W.G.
The end of August is the date up to which
entries for cinquains will be received by this
page. This pseudo-Japanese form of verse
consists of five lines in iambic metre. The first
line contains one foot, the second two feet>
the third three feet, the fourth four feet, and
the fifth one foot —not two as was unfor-
tunately mis-stated last week. There are, or
course, two syllables in each foot. The line
needn’t rime. Full particulars in R.l •
26. Half a guinea for the best.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for Farmers’ Wants
Double-furrow, £23.
Bentall’s GMF Kibbler, £B/107-
Pony Feed Cutter, 77/6.
Wiard Gang Plough, £lO/5/
Canton
Disc Plough
ALL THE GOOD POINTS which the MAN ON
THE LAND DESIRES in AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS are CONTAINED in THOSE
ILLUSTRATED on this page.
The RENOWNED CANTON DISC PLOUGH, in
treble-, double- and single-furrow patterns, has 26in.
discs, and is a most reliable implement. Treble Furrow
(weight 9001 b), £.28; Double Furrow (weight 7801 b.),
£23 ; Single Furrow (weight 6301 b), £lB.
The EMPEROR SULKY HAY RAKE is a well-tried
aid to efficiency. It has 24 steel teeth and covers Bft.
Price £6/10/-
BENTALL’S G.M.F. KIBBLER will grind 4801 b.
maize per hour £B/10/-
BE NT ALL’S No. 4 GRINDING MILL is also useful
and reliable £5/17/0
The PONY FEED CUTTER, at 77/0, will cut
Hay, Cornstalks and all kinds of rough feed. One man
can cut one bushel of hay in 35 seconds. Cuts from
3-16 to 2in. Weight, 165ib.
The No. 8 CORN SHELLER is a dependable
machine which will deal with 20 bushels hourly.
Price 85 - No. 15, a TWO-HOLE CORN
SHELLER, has a capacity by hand of 25 bushels per
hour, and 60 bushels hourly if worked by power.
Price £B/10/-
The WIARD GANG PLOUGH makes a double
furrow 22in. wide, and from 4to 8 inches deep. Has
soft centre steel mouldboards £lO/5-
The OHIO STANDARD FEED AND ENSILAGE
CUTTER is invaluable where fodder is siloed. It is
equipped with blower elevator and requires but slight
power to run. With Plain Table, £25; with Travelling
Table, as shown, £ U O
4
£
t
Emperor Sulky Hay Rake, £6/10/-
TfV BEKTAIL'kij,
-V-
Bentall’s No. 4 Grinding Mill, £5/17/6.
No. 8 Corn Sheller, 80/-
r
Ohio Standard Feed and Ensilage Cutter.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
Cartridges
Shoot Straight
and Hit Hard
These two cardinal points
of a good cartridge, and
also that of reliability, are
always found in Win-
chester ammunition. No
matter what caliber cart-
ridges you* want or whether
they are for use in a rifle,
revolver or pistol you will
get the best results by using
Winchester make. They
are sold everywhere.
Accept no substitute,
insist upon having
Ml
(*
“My machine has now
run 3 0,0 00 miles
without any renewals
to engine, except rings
and valve springs.”
A. McCAW, Monkseaton.
That is the kind of service the
Ariel gives; always long and
satisfactory.
Art List mailed free.
Ariel Works Ltd.
36 BOURNBROOK, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Agents : TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY : 363 George Street,
ADELAIDE: 152 Runcle Street.
MELBOURNE* Elizabeth Street.
J
v ,
f'v.V
3
r
msk
T
m
Special Offers in Guns & Rifles.
TRADE MARK
LOOK, SPORTSMEN
CONSIDER
et the same
NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY A MUZZLE-LOADING GUN.
YOUR OUTLAY ON CARTRIDGES ! With a muzzle-loader you
sport for 5/- 100, whereas cartridges will cost you 15/- 100.
D.B.M.L. GUN, best barrels, walnut stock. Usual Price, £4.
SALE PRICE, £2/5/-
S.B.M.L. GUN. Usual Price, 35/- SALE PRICE, 22/6
D.8.8.L. DUCK GUN, top action, choke bore, long-distance shooting, 32in.
barrels SALE PRICE, £3/1 7/6
SPORTING RABBIT RIFLE PRICE, 15/., Cartridges, 2/3 100.
Send lor our Illustrated Cataloguer—Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARMS CO.. 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
FO
lIX HUH
mu >1
n
*S»
..n nm
U P
in I U t'
&S&
KUiT 'Mi
to
*
n
Hi
LEYS.- fg
-TGUM^ —
R 1
&■ H-PER
gs.
Si
Off for
the Front!
Men and munitions are needed
munitions of every kind. Not alone
shells and guns and trappings, but
WRIGLEYS
the famous chewing sweet. The
men at the front are calling for
WRIGLEY’S every day.
It relieves thirst and fatigue. Helps
appetite and digestion.
3d. per packet
of 5 big
bars.
-m
sis
oiG&S;
KfS
C
At Chemists, Confectioners and
Stores or send 3 penny stamps
to J. C. Gambles & Coy, Com-
merce House, Melbourne.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Sealed tight
Kept right
- The Flavour Lasts -
78
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravislier of Belgium win without
-lifting a hand?
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
HONTSERR^f
SAUCE
&
mm
'* l * IlffiltM" l
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
digestive
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of AIL Slot ekcepers.
are: you n
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding onr Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling Eteel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within tne
reach of all. Can vou ask for more.
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
:54!) Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and g° oc
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish. crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EL DENT A TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfec
the mouth (thus preventing decay)-
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as ' the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOM PS ITT & CO., Melbourne.


Actress Tells Secret
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair with a
Simple Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Bose, a well-known actress,
who darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation Which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview made the following state-
ment : “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum and a small box of Oi'lex Com-
pound. These ingredients can be bought at
any chemist’s at very little cost. Apply to
the hair twice a week until it becomes The
required shade. This will make a grey-
haired person look 20 years younger. It is
also line to promote the growth of ha'r. and
relieves itching and dandruff.” —Aiivt. [1
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
with o u t causing
themselves discom-
fort.... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt: death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not only de-
stroys the craving, the desire, the appetite
for tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids Nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison of Tobacco.
FREE, SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Sb CO.,
Dept, U,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4
79
YOUR
SOLDIER
(MEEDS and WANTS
Because it Sterilises
all germs which infect the system
through the mouth, nose and throat.
Colds,
Sore Throats,
Laryngitis,
Hoarseness,
Influenza,
Meningitis.
NO GLASS, WATER OR SPOON IS
NEEDED. Think of the convenience
and OF THE SAFETY, and send your
soldier a tube of Cinnak.
All Chemists, PER TUBE.
omif
ZjeWtkfttl \ffi%
5' ..j» 3
Ai»i
■ 0
r *\ : h
M
til
«LiJsrs IU-s-A)
Amm
rxsm
SREY
HAIR
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, Parbury House, Brisbane.
'I have sold it for over SOyearsk
IRISH MOSS
Sold Here
<6 IB6q
says the retailer ” and there is F
nothing in my stock that I can
more conscientiously recommend
for coughs and colds than Benning-
ton s Irish Moss. For. over half a
century it has been the standard,
never-failing remedy, and the public
have set their seal of approval upon
BONNIAGTOfIS
BONfllNCTl?/
IRISH
Sold HereC
1917
ti
M
IRISH*MOSS
It acts like a charm in cases of Whooping Cough, Croup, Coughs and Colds which
are the children s worst enemies. Always keep it handy Summer and Winter, but
be sure it's Bonnington's. Large and Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
If you must rear
baby by hand
Then there’s
his Bottle
Mellin’s Feed-
ing Bottle is
the perfect and
simple Feeder,
adopt a food which approaches most closely to
Mother’s Milk, and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and proved equivalent
to Mother’s Milk ; its success is evidenced by
wo Id-wide recommendation. Simple to prepare;
no tedious cooking—it is alike a boon .to the
nursing mother and satisfying to the child.
ellin's
Food
Write NOW for sample of Mellin’s Food and useful Handbook
for Mothers —“The Care of Infants in Australia”—post free.
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
tag
ALL over the world, wherever rep-
Zl resentative motorists gather, for
* sport or business, Firestone
Tyfes predominate.
Firestone has originality of design
and reliable performance, safety with
speed and economical going.
All who demand the highest standards
of travel look for the name“ Firestone”
on tubes as well as tyres.
Gmhley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garagea
Write for Illustrated Literature
TlrcstoncTyres
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When All the World Was Young.
lie lifted high his foaming glass,
With pride his chest protruded.
He said: “Few folks alive, my lass,
Have loved as I and you did.
My purse was light, my progress slow,
Yet, ah ! the songs we sung.
But that was twenty years ago,
When all the world was young !
“Dame Prudence was a beldame dry
To whom we never truckled.
We watched the naked moon swing by,
While dear old Goatfoot chuckled.
The joy that in your eyes flamed so
Was honey on your tongue.
But that was twenty years ago,
When all the world was young!
“Your mien was winsomely demure,
And none could guess our passion ;
The modest maid, aloof and pure,
Was very much the fashion.
They watched you well. We tricked ’em,
though,
As heart to heart we clung.
But that was twenty' years ago,
When all the world was young!
“Do you remember how I raged
With fury unavailing,
When first I heard you were engaged
To that dull fellow Bayling?
I was as poor as Peter, Flo ;
He rich— that knowledge stung..
But that was twenty years ago,
When all the world was young!
“And then you married, while I vowed
You false —oh, willow, willow !
Throughout that night I sobbed aloud,
And bit my lonely pillow.
In dreams I heard you crooning low—
To him. Faith’s neck I wrung.
But that was twenty years ago,
When all the world was young!
“Then, later on, we met again.
You loved me.. . ,ah, you did ! Oh,
It’s fine to be your constant swain,
Now you’re a cosy widow.
We might have married once, you know,
Ere yet our fling we’d flung.
But that was twenty years ago,
When all the world was young!
“You look just rippin’ in that fluff
Of feathery silks and laces.
Amid these modern chits (poor stuff)
Most exquisite your face is.
Your youthful graces were a flow
Of pearls this hand first strung.
But that was twenty years ago,
When all the world was young!”
He lifted high his glass. He cried:
“Life taught me nothing—you did!
For when to plan or work I tried,
Your girlish face obtruded.
White shoulders, lips with youth aglow,
Lithe arms that clasped and clung.
But that was twenty years ago,
When all the world was young!”
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRS.
Returned.
Oh, was it phantasy or dream
Or... Mary mother, keep me sane
Lest I should hear the blind things scream,
And dream the dream again!
I saw the man-pack carnage-meshed,
I saw the dizzy death-bolts dance,
I saw ten thousand bayonets fleshed
Upon a field of France!
Not woman I, but rooted stone
That screamed nor fled nor shrank in awe
To see the red knife strip the bone,
The hot life leaping raw.
And him I sought I sought in vain,
My man among a world of men.
These, these that ploughed the bloody plain
Were loosed from cave and den!
Prate not of vows, of destiny
That binds me on a wheel of fate—
To dandle murder on my knee
And suckle spawn of hate!
Why run my sands beyond the hour.
The thrice-damned hour that brought me
this;
To pray Death’s'conquering worm devour
The lips I cannot kiss!
His child and mine sleeps fast by me;
Without, his footfall beats the floor.
But... Mary mother, weep with me
Behind my bolted door!
Betwixt us sobs a sundering sea
For ever, ever more!
victoria.
MARIE E.J. PITT.
The Ancient.
I’m old
Botany Bay;
Stiff in the neck,
Little to say.
I am he
Who forged.the way,
That you might walk
At your ease to-day.
I was the conscript
Sent to hell
To make in the desert
The living well;
I love the heat,
I blazed the track—
Furrowed and bloody
Upon my'back;
I split the rock,
I felled the tree;
And the nation Was.
Because of me!
Old
Botany Bay
Taking the sun
From day to day.
Shame to the mouth
That would deny
The knotted hands
That set us high!
n.s.w.
MARY GILMORE.


4® ■
■4 £
RUBBER BELTING.
The largest endless rubber conveyor belt
ever manufactured in the world was made
by us, and is now in use at the N.S.W.
Government’s coal-loading plant at Port
Kembla.
We can supply belts for high-power driv-
ing, and during manufacture the cotton
duck is subjected to an even strain
throughout its entire length, which re-
duces stretch when in use to a minimum.
PERDRIAU RUBBER HOSE
FOR ALL PURPOSES
If you require Hose for Steam, Suction, Gas*
Water, Divers, Air Drills, Fire, Dredge Sleeves,
Pneumatic Tools, Vacuum Cleaning, Chemicals,
or for any other use whatever, we can fulfil your
requirements.
Our Factory is thoroughly equipped with all the
latest and most up-to-date machinery and is capable
of turning out any special lines at short notice.
As actual manufacturers we invite enquiries from
Engineers, Industrial Manufacturers and Produc-
ing Corporations for any Special Hose or other
Rubber Goods, and will be pleased to furnish
samples and estimates on request.
rv
&
ENGINE PACKING AND JOINTINGS.
We manufacture a number of very high-
grade packings and jointings suitable for
all types of engines.
We can supply you with packings to
withstand the action of oils and grease,
and the various chemicals usually so
detrimental to anything that contains
rubber. For high pressures you can rely
upon Perdriau Packings to see you
through.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, NEWCASTLE, PERTH.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
jj OENYER
PRICES
Single Elastic Truss, 20 -
Double Elastic Truss, 27/6
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS,which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
WOLSELEY
At present the Wolseley Works are on
war service and unable to supply pri-
vate customers, but we shall be pleased
to add your order to our waiting list,
to be ful hi led when we can resume
deliveries.
Agents:
F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
FELLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO.,
Russell Street, Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY.
Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
mim
M
WORSEREY MOTORS ROUTED,
ENGLAND.
Proprietors: VICKERS KIMITED.
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL (EX CO.,
Manufaduring Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Eorry Parts.
The Largest Machine=Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
*3*
;
GOODRICH
Full-sized Tyres
Will QuicKen Your Car.
Nimble Tyres and Strong!
Made flexible, so as to Bend freely over sharp obstacles on
the road which would cut into less yielding walls or more
gritty rubber.
Black Treads of the new “Barefoot” rubber, which is
stretchy as a rubber band, close-grained as flint, and so
tough that no ordinary man can break even a sliver of it.
He who puts Goodrich Tyres on his Car will find they
give to it Action, make it “light-footed,” smart at the
Get-away, responsive up hills, smoother running, with
less vibration, over relatively rough roads.
He will find them lighter in weight - than any other tyre
of FULL-SIZE if there be any, because that lessened
weight means less “filler," less inert substances.
It means less of the useless “ballasting” material, in
Rubber, which bulks larger to the eye but which deadens
Tyre adlion, thickens Tyre walls and thereby separates
the layers of fabric.
Goodrich Tyres will be found “NET SERVICE” Tyres,
from which all “ Muscle-binding ” encumbrances have been
eliminated, leaving the Vital things free to do their best
unhampered.
And, FULL to the SIZE branded thereon.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St,
MELBOURNE,
13 Castlereagh St,
SYDNEY,
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., ADELAIDE; A. C. MacCALLUM, PERTH ;
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, HOBART.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydnev, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1958,
THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 1917.
Price 6d.
THE LOGIC OF THE GENERAL STRIKE.
THE OLD MAN: “’Ere, where’s my tea?"
THE OLD WOMAN: “I ain’t gain’ to get you no tea."
THE OLD MAN: "Why not?"
THE OLD WOMAN : "Bill Smith over the road's had a row with his missus-she won't keep proper 'count of the way she spends his money."
THE OLD MAN: “Well, wot’s that got to do with us?”
THE OLD WOMAN: “I don’t know!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
gear, including Special Christmas Number, to ant
.address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per
'annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Kditor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications ivill be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — TP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bloz. to 10oz., 2\d.:
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
tHeZz/n.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 1917.
THE GENERAL STRIKE.
What is it? A strike that includes a few
more unions, or bigger unions, than the
ordinary dispute? Many people suppose that
that is all it is. Even when it is against
the Government they see no difference. The
term has been loosely used for strikes involv-
ing a whole industry or causing sympathetic
outbreaks in allied trades. But the General
Strike, properly so-called, is the systematic
application of pressure, by the concerted
Striking of union after union, till the eco-
nomic life of a whole country is made so
weak that only yielding to the common
demand of the unions can save it. How-
ever the real General Strike begins, it must
always involve the Government, because it
must always strangle the community whose
existence the Government has to safeguard
and control. If the Government cannot stop
the strike, it fails as a Government, and
must be replaced. It may force the employ-
ers or employees, or both, to give way. In
any such ease it saves its authority and
does justice, unless it acts from fear or
corrupt influence. When the Government
itself is the employer against which the
strike is directed, its whole authority is at
stake the moment the strike reveals itself as
the General Strike. Defeat for the Govern-
ment then means its defeat as a Govern-
ment ; and a change of Government should
take place either by the victorious unions
instituting a Government themselves, or by
their offering to work under a new Govern-
ment. or by an alteration of the Constitu-
tion being made so as to give them a means
of lawfully imposing their will on the State.
* * * *
For a time the German Social Democrats
thought that the General Strike was their
best way of securing universal suffrage in
combination with Responsible Government,
instead of their present system of autocratic
rule. So. meeting at Jena in 1905, they
passed the so-called “.Tena resolution,” de-
fining the General Strike as “the most com-
prehensive application of the general refusal
to work.” Then they agreed to use it as
their weapon of defence; against ‘ an attack,
on universal, equal, direct and secret suf-
frage, or on the right of combination”;
also, as their weapon of offence “to capture
an important right as a basis for emancipa-
tion.” Their leader, August Bebel, said
that the General Strike was the “ultima
ratio,” or last argument, to which they all
“must win over the trade-unions,” and for
which “all their strength and discipline and
self-restraint” would be needed. But the
German trade-unions refused to be won over.
The Social Democratic leaders also found
that the doctrine of the General Strike was
turning Socialism into Anarchism. So they
went back on it, and at their next congress,
held at Mannheim in 1906, they gave it up.
Yet they only wanted to gain by it the
political rights which Australian unionists
enjoy already, and the legal rights for union-
ism that Australian law lias long since con-
ceded. Even such a reasonable aspiration
did not seem to them worth the risk of over-
throwing all their government by the
General Strike.
* * * #
The French, too, have had the policy of
the General Strike ; and their Socialists and
unions split hopelessly upon it. They soon
perceived that it was simply and wholly an
instrument of Revolution. The General
Strike, they said, 10 years before the slower-
witted Germans, is the Revolution. Accord-
ingly-, those who wanted Revolution, with
all risks, formed the body of “Revolutionary
Syndicalists,” who renounced political action
in favor of direct action, and formed or
captured trades-unions for the purpose of
organising the General Strike and the for-
cible destruction of Parliamentary Govern-
ment in France. French trades-unionism has
never been as powerful as the English, or
as well organised and disciplined as the Ger-
man. It therefore was more tempted to try
one desperate effort to realise its. aims. But
the stronger French unionism grew, the more
it shrank from the method of revolution;
and the better its representatives were in
Parliament the more hopeful it became of
political action. So revolutionary syndical-
ism was discredited, and the General Strike
was disowned in France. But meantime the
doctrine had crossed to America. There in
1905 it produced the 1.W.W., which is a
by-product of French revolutionary syndi-
calism with the brains left out. The I.W.W.
has done nothing at all but carry 7 on _an
annoying guerilla war of crime against
society and corruption within the trades-
unions. It lias come to Australia, and its
chief exponents, imported and otherwise, are
in gaol here for incendiarism and forging,
etc., when they have not been hanged for
murder. But their doctrine of direct action
has infected the trades-unions, some of whose
leaders have been captured by the idea of
the General Strike.
* * * *
Students of social evolution once concluded
from the European experience that the Gen-
eral Strike is impossible except in countries
where the workers have their way to politi-
cal power stopped by an undemocratic fran-
chise or some other apparently irremovable
injustice in the Constitution. But Aus-
tralia is showing them that they were wrong
and that a completely democratic system of
Parliamentary Government, and a whole
mass of industrial legislation made by a
self-governing community and administered
bv independent judicial officers and a de-
partment of State, will not prevent the Gen-
eral Strike being tried. Luckily, in the
instance in which it is tried, it has no just
ground. It is practically an open attempf
to defeat the Government normally consti-
tuted by a majority of the representatives
elected to Parliament by the people. If the
attempt succeeds, let 11s distinctly under-
stand what it means; the authority of the
Government will pass to the organisation
outside Parliament. Then the Government
which is responsible to Parliament should
resign, and Parliament, which is responsible
to the people, should also resign. And the
unions will he in power by right of the
strongest. Minority government by superior-
ity of physical force is not democratic gov-
ernment, but it is government of a real kind,
with terrible power of harm. But the worst
that could happen is even worse than that —
namely, continuance of the present Govern-
ment in office after its defeat by physical
force. That could occur only if the Gov-
ernment and Parliament were traitors to
the people. It cannot be supposed that they
would he. Yet we have seen a Prime Minis-
ter defeated at a referendum, left with one
House of the Legislature almost all opposed
to him. and the other affording him only a
remnant of his original majority, over-
powered too in a very large strike, hut hang-
ing on as if he were still a Government.
Happily that situation is over. May it never
recur !' We have real Governments now. Let
them do their duty, and the General Strike
will cease to threaten the undoing of our
democratic form of government. Australia
then will have had its attack of the disease,
and perhaps be immune from a scourge
whose proper home is insanitary political
slum-countries like the land of the late and
unlamented czars.
YOUTH AND CRABBED AGE.
The loss of mind-power through the ridicu-
lous prevalence of death accounts for a lot
of things. In the great field of science the
big Darwin or Owen type produces a few
works, evolves a theory or two and then
drops out. The next man in the contest of
brain against the unknown starts from
scratch. It is true that the books and
theories of his forerunner will help him when
lie is about three parts round the course;
but the capacity for co-relating data and for
logical deduction from proved facts must be
slowly acquired with the exercise of infinite
patience and unflagging zeal. If a Darwin
could live 200 years and be at his top intel-
lectual strength for 150 of them, much of
the loss of power might be cut out, because
the newcomer would be well into his scientific
stride before the other man had begun to
feel the first symptoms of fatigue; but as
things are now adjusted, the perpetual break
between life and life keeps the machine of
thought on the wobble. In the realm of
action and affairs the thing is still more
apparent. Take the case of the late C. J.
ChESAB, of Rome, who was knifed by certain
pseudo-patriots because he had thought out
an astonishing mixture of despotism and
democracy which left very little room for
the inefficient person of influence, and still
less for mere dodder in a toga. Caesar s
notion was to conquer the whole world in
sections, treating each conquered portion so
well that it was immediately willing to
help him in the conquest of the rest, lo
smash all power except Rome’s and then
turn the men brought under Rome’s suprem-
aev into free Roman citizens was a tolerably
bit? programme; but if Caesar could have
lived for two or three centuries, it might
have been accomplished. Unfortunately
his bald bead sank in the absurdity of
death at the very moment when the world
most wanted him ; and the scheming
Octavius, who, after settling things with
Antonius, got even more power than his
uncle Julius ever had, was utterly incap-
able of understanding the big policy by
which Rome and the world might have be-
come interchangeable terms. If the world
could be always young, it would whirl
things along to some purpose; if it could be
always middle-aged, it might get even far-
ther in a slower but surer fashion ; if it
could even have the steady guidance of a
wise and mellow old age that wasn’t too
tired to think about things, it wouldn’t be
altogether hopeless. The trouble is that the
three periods of life are always pulling one
against the other, and neither stodge nor
enthusiasm ever gets a fair test.
* .* .
In political matters, where experience is
the only guide, the wobble by which progress
so often falls over its own feet breaks the
heart of theory and beats earnest resolution
to a standstill. Take the strike, for instance,
as a weapon of defence or offence tor tlie
workers. After the big commotion in Eng-
land a quarter of a century ago, when ie
men at the end of a stupendous strugg
won the small thing they had asked for, t
strike leaders, having full knowledge of a
the facts, declared that the game wa
of >r refoii‘m. It the statement of grim
experience ; and it so impressed the toiling
SJi 'f“ faith VT g isUn ’.US’ £
andto d SpeSeS
mode of warfare looked good enough to try
again. It is being tried to-day in almost
every country; and when, after a few out-
standing “successes,” the futility and event-
ual loss of the idleness cure for industrial
evils is once more shown, Labor organisa-
tions will turn again to the legislative
method which they now despise and are
doing their best to wreck. If the men who
saw the London dock strike and took part
in the big maritime strike throughout A.us-
tralasia were the majority among the
workers to-day, there would be no talk of
downing tools while Parliamentary rnajori-
ties were possible. But the absurd fact is
that the men who know all about it from
practical experience are now mostly dead or
retired from the game, and the younger
crowd have to start from scratch in the race
for fresh experience. The same is true of war.
No nation that remembers the grim horror
of pain and filth and sorrow which warfare
always implies would ever want to fight;
but national memory, despite all the books
that may be written to jog it, never can go
back beyond a generation at most. New men
will try the old thing because it is brand-
new to them, and so the horror lives again
from age to age. Death is at the bottom of
tbe whole futility. If the grandfather and
the grandson could be young together for a
sufficient period, the world’s thought and
feeling would be continuous and all the
ridiculous bumps and falls would disappear
from the road of human progress.
* * * *
T Yet it is quite likely that Providence and
Nature and the other forces usually blamed
for the early arrival of the undertaker are
quite willing to re-arrange things on a
better footing. A whole host of microbes of
disease which have been hitherto tolerated
as a necessary nuisance could be got rid of
if serious attention were given to their
slaughter. Almost any person with modern
, aias un< ler Ins hat will admit that the
healthi of a people is the State s first asset,
and that the prevention of disease is the
rust yob that the community should under-
take, let consider what we do in the mat-
ter compared with what we can do in other
l e * i\ n r ne T r t 0 * be , I, ’ ud call fl 'om
has splashed a hundred
nnllions into the big war of nations in
Jmnnifil’" pretty certainly splash
V • ~ M e m . lg I t.-h ave
hud snent invthinir P rt T +i° * 1<? war w e
w ivar nf " , h nl ! e o- ha / amount in a
death ’ The trite ronviiuf I'u causes of
lot of all men anrl thl ru,? llt * le . co “™° n
observation of an anmnnt- n pp ' seo, ' e ' and '-ten
muTto retard effort- in ih? - f eW have^’» p
undertakingtrad?- w thJ -**7 8t ? °/ 5°
that i nivS ’ Si? i •'") a ! sta I nd »
c-nemv could lirohahlv o vte«a M f ie i’, st
enemy could probably extend youth on tbe
average by ten years and that a continued
?o reuJffo the l fine m he hel V d en - forc ?
times. Then the pendulum might
swinv and merelv nn,W n-iUL Jr“\ ,
up in earnest the Work of the' ageWefWe
There mi<dit hp . oetore.
would be”there to vote it out. noWaTbe-
cause continuity of thought would * scorn
tbe childish notion of vetting forward on a
powder cart • hut a nolitmiin i r , a
enough to be found out and a eitfzenWouM
have time enouvb tn en . w °u lfl
world g a hom ° in the
THE CASE AGAINST LABOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The failure of the Labor movement in Aus-
tralia is not political, but moral. That it
lost an election counts for nothing. That a
community, including the better elements of
Labor itself, has turned against it. counts
for everything.
For it is clearly recognised at last that
the aim expressed by the voice of Labor’s
representatives is not political freedom for
all, but the domination of all by a few the
vwy dictum that the world is in arms against
The phenomenon of victory was too much
for. Labor’s nerves. Instead of accepting the
submission of its opponents with dignitv. it
went on a debauch of resentment. It was
not sufficient that its enemies should aer
defeat; nothing short of trampling them '
the mud could satisfy its lust of conquest in
Resentment is a very useful stimulant t
fight on, but it is the last foolishness one
the battle is over. It fails to remember that
the conditions of human society are Sl ,
tained by the balance of reaction, and that
the humblest enemy will become formidahl.
if you trample on him sufficiently
tactics of frightfulness are the tactics of
stupidity.
Yet with the spectacle of German saner
arrogance before its eyes, the Labor ijartv
rushed to its own doom. And such was the
impetus of the rush that it turned a com-
plete somersault, in which all that remained
of its moral dignity was scattered in the
mud.
Under the very banner of Democratic
ideals it claims nothing less than the power
of an absolute Autocracy. It has vindicated
the sacredness of its idol by throwing a
handful of mud in its idol’s face.
Its petty cries of resentment against Capi-
tal and its pumped-up anger against the
Boss have the meanest sound in the Homeric
trumpet-call of battle. Even in peace-times
they were already out of date. Where its
demands were just, Labor has been given all
it claimed —high wages, short hours, hygienic
conditions, insurance to cover accidents o£
trade, and a pension in old age. But it still
goes on screaming, like an idiot child, for the
toy already in its hands. It is the story of Dox
Quixote and the Galley Slaves over again.
Nothing but a continuous shower of stones
can satisfy its resentment against its libera-
tors. That these stones, hurled with insen-
sate fury, descend also upon its own head is
a species of blind justice that but lashes it
to fresh anger. Like a mutinous crew that
throws all the food overboard, it roars that
the after-guard is trying to starve it into
submission. Like a demented householder it
pulls the roof down upon its head, and com-
plains because the rain comes in. The
similes of its conduct are the similes of any
irresponsible act that recoils upon the actor;
and. as a last evidence of dementia, it kicks
humanity in the stomach in order to call
attention to the sacred justness of its anger.
There had permeated vaguely through this
community a belief that Labor ideals stood
for a progressive liberality towards human
ideals. Our tolerance was sapped by a
sneaking sympathy for the under-dog, and
there was imposed a moral duty in letting
him off the chain. But Labor has mistaken
freedom for an utter irresponsibility, and
without discipline no community can exist,
Yet the really irritating part is that Labor
still arrogates to itself all the virtues, both
political and moral, of an oppressed state.
“These men,” said one Doyle, M.L.C.,
last week, “are fighting a battle for the lads
in the trenches.”
Not so, Mr. Doyle ! These men are fight-
ing to get you and your like the Parliamen-
tary power which the country does not think
you are worthy to be trusted with; and the
lads in the trenches are fighting against the
principles of Autocracy which you and your
like seek to establish in Australia.
In criticising a class adversely it is cus-
tomary to except the decent members.
But where the decent portion tacitly
consents to the actions of its worst members
they must all share an equal stigma. That
the sober-living and orderly working-man is
not behind the extremist of his order counts
for nothing. In all mob movements it is the
active minority which rules. The decent
fellow who comes to do a job in your back-
yard can howl like a wolf when the real
wolves howl. All resolutions made by a
mob are valueless, because they are the
effect of emotion, not conviction. In a mob
the individualist does not think, he only
feels. And since emotion tends to demoralise
thought, a mob will always tend towards the
most facile of emotions —a turbulent desire
to express anger. > ,
The political failure of Labor is that of
an overswollen sense of power. It makes
the mistake of all autocracies in supposing
that the right to do certain things argues the
right to do anything. It presents itself as
an enemy to the State, inasmuch as it
works as a secret society while demanding
all the privileges of honest citizenship-
Finally, it has allied itself to the criminal
class in turning its hand, not against a par-
ticular enemy, but against the whole com-
munity. ~
Morally its failure is the deeper. For it
has repudiated the great communal law,
which is to give an equal value for what it
takes. Iu turning its resentment for the
employer to resentment against work itsolt.
it has touched a real point of baseness.
Since man has been unwise enough to
grow a brain, he must find his salvation in
work. To the Devil with the dignity of labor.
It is the joy of work that counts. Those
sentimentalists who pity the man with the
hoe but expose the incapacity of their ov>n
flabby muscles. Physical labor is the propel
business of man, the natural function wnicu
keeps his body healthy and his mind clean.
“Poor devil!” says the armchair humani-
tarian, watching the man break stones.
“Poor devil!” says the stonebreaker,
watching the humanitarian sitting all day
a chair. ,
In cursing its work Labor has turned the
contempt of humanity on itself. The man
who hates his work is both fool and coward-
fool because he robs himself of the joy °
his craft; coward for doing a thing be hates.
A laboring man may not have a choice ot tn
professions, but he has the choice of imple-
ments, and if he hates the axe let him taxe
to the shovel. . ,
At the basis of this discontent is no
poverty, failure or hard conditions, but soft-
ness and good living, the two great evils.
Labor, to-day. is not yet purged of it®
prosperous years. While humanity bleed,
it still howls for easier conditions, anj
seeks to repudiate the universal debt of tot •
For this the Labor movement is i’ l ?,
peached. Not because in the easy y ea ! s ,'
was greedy and inordinate in its demand_ to
easy living. We have all a touch of these vice ■
Not because it swaggered politically as t
saviour of mankind. Not even because 1
made its laws and broke its laws, and was
petulant and contradictory and arrogant an
stupid. .* , ,
But because in the hour of humanity®
martyrdom it repudiated humanity’s call t
help. In its loyalty to unionism it is disloy


to mankind. Because it has repudiated its
duty in the face of the enemy, like a
deserter who on the battlefield would be-
■shot without trial. Because its class hatreds
have turned to national hatreds, so that it
claims disloyalty as a virtue. And, worst of
all, where it will not fight it refuses to work.
.... When you drop your tools
The guns are silent. Worse, far worse than fools,
- We see you swaggering in your treachery
And clutching close the wage of infamy,
A fistful of dirty pence.
To-day in Australia the old leaders of the
Labor movement have left it en masse. The
people who express its views are mere sans
culottes, intent only on loot. And Labor,
great but blind, carries these parasites on
its back, and their stings continually goad it
into fresh exasperation. They, too, aware
of defeat, have exactly the desperate air that
is apparent in the acts of their brother auto-
crats of Germany.
A hundred years ago men struck the
Democratic note that we have realised to-
day. A hundred years ago the intellectual
movement raised a cry of “Liberty, equality
and fraternity,” and to-day Germany is the
last stand made by the old ideal of an auto-
cratic aristocracy. When that has gone, as
ic must go, Democracy will sound its note of
victory.
And what then? Already the intellect of
this generation has moved to foretell the
inevitable reaction to an aristocratic
ideal —an aristocracy, not of rank, but of
intellect and capacity.
For the aristocratic ideal is not one of
man’s devising, but of Nature’s —Nature that
gives the snake its fangs, the tiger its claws
and man his expanding brain-case.
The old aristocracy of rank survived
because it was fittest to survive. The new
aristocracy of brains will dominate, because
it is fittest to dominate.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australian Strikes for the Australian.
The Bulletin’s faith in the Australian as
a revolutionary is being badly shaken. He
has done pretty ivell in the matter of taking
the Grand Turk by the beard and bumping
the Kaiser back from the ruined fields of
France; but when it comes to proper indus-
trial upheaval, banging down the tools and
shouting defiance to the tyrant public that
foots the bill for all disorder, our own Bill-
•iim hasn’t a look-in with the imported man.
Everywhere in the forefront of the battle
for nothing-in-particular is a strenuous ad-
vocate of the rights-of-man-to-yell-before-he-
is-hurt who only got a first look at Aus-
tralia a few weeks or months back, and who
even now would lose his way if you dumped
him in an 80-acre horse-paddock. That the
imported men whose present labor condi-
tions are better than any they ever dreamt
of in their own countries should have a kick
is perfectly natural and altogether to be ex-
pected ; they have all the feeling of the
emancipated slave who can’t get the old
grouch out of his blood under the new free-
dom. What is remarkable, however, is that
the Australian should follow them and accept
the leadership of people who don’t know his
own feelings about things or his own notions
of fair play and decent dealing. For the
Australian worker has real grievances, and
knows of any number of things that want
straightening out; but they are things that
hear not the remotest resemblance to those
over which the man from Manchester or
Birmingham grows bitterly eloquent. What
the toiler who was born in Balmain or
beyond the Darling fails to see or has shut
his eyes to is the fact that those foreign
leaders, who by his easy tolerance have
usurped his natural place in the local Labor
organisations, are taking his own good
powder and shot and wasting it in mere
futile destruction. In the big outside war it
is generally Billjim who leads into the
dangerous places, but at home he is ready to
let the other fellow get the first yell and
assault whatever his ignorance of the
strategic position suggests. It shouldn’t be
so. The luxury of a strike is not the sort of
pastry to be shared round indiscriminately
among those who have mouths.
»
Billjim, A.B.
A word for Billjim, A.B.: —
When will the rates of pay in the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy be adjusted to meet the increased
cost of living? The present scale was formulated
in 15)11 and since then the bills have increased by
at least 33 per cent. In the House of Reps, a few
weeks ago the Minister for the Navy stated that the
rates of pay for A.B.’s were 4s. 7d. and ss. per
diem for short service (five years) and long ser-
vice (seven years) respectively. This statement,
though not incorrect, is misleading. The “active
pay” rates of able seamen are: Short service ratings,
3s. 9d. per diem; long-service ratings, 4s. per diem,
with lOd. and Is., held as deferred pay by the Naval
authorities, payable at the expiration of the man’s
engagement, and then only under certain condi-
tions. Thus, although an A.B.’s pay may be said
to be the rates quoted by Mr. Cook, the purchasing
power is only 3s. 9d. and 4s. Married men with,
say, four or five years’ service, as is the case with
the majority of A.B.’s and equivalent ratings in the
R.A.N. (this service entitles them to an additional
Is. per day as married allowance irrespective of
number in family), have great difficulty in provid-
ing wife and family with even the barest necessities
of life. *
After specialising in either gunnery or torpedo
work the highest pay a long-service A.B. can receive
is 6s. Id. per diem, including married allowance.
Apart from the fact that an untrained man in the
A.I.F. receives, with separation allowances, up to
10s. per diem, it is evident that some adjustment is
necessary.
How serious this matter is you may judge from
this: there are over 200 men on one ship who will
finish their period of engagement within the next
two years, and of that number not one intends to
re-engage. As< l: i-official canvass was made of one
branch and their answer was invariably the same—
“pay too little and prospects of advancement to*
poor.” Now. it costs approximately £3OO to train
a man for the rating of able seaman, seaman gun-
ner, and an additional £2OO to permit him to
attain a higher gunnery rating. These men will
be lost to the service at a time when they are of
the greatest value, and to replace them other men
must be trained, who, in turn, on the expiration of
their engagement, will probably revert to civilian
life; and so the game goes on. I do not contend
that an increase will induce all men to re-engage,
but it would appeal successfully to the majority.
Working on the data available I think the increase
wanted would amount to, roughly, £llO,OOO per
annum. Without it these men, mostly specialists, will
be lost. The powers that be evidently consider it
cheaper to expend annually about £200,000 in
training new drafts than to expend a little more
than half that amount to retain the finished article.
Not only is this the case with the A.B.’s but with
all other seaman ratings. It is no exaggeration if
the cost of training an A.B. for the rating of petty
officer, gunner’s mate, is placed at over £lOOO.
Substitute other branches of the service for that
of the seaman branch, and the facts still hold good
except, perhaps, that the cost of training is not so
great. The whole question amounts to whether it
will pay the Government to make it worth the while
of these men to remain in the service. Speaking
from experience, I say it will.
While every other class of workman, or practically so,
can approach either an Arbitration Court or Wages
Board of some description for redress in any matter
concerning their pay, the men of the navy have no
constitutional means whereby they can place their
plaint before the Naval Board. Certainly one cap-
tain, recognising, perhaps, the justice of the men’s
claims, allowed them to hold a meeting and place
their views in writing before him for submission
to the Naval Board. But nothing so far has come of
the proceeding.
The Blister on the Maorilander.
Once more the Maoriland Government is
being bombarded with offensive language
about its failure to put a muzzle on the
local exploiter, the main cause of discon-
tent being that food supplies are dear and
that while the wage-earning population is
out of breath keeping up with the price of
mutton and cheese, producers and land-
owners are getting money in barrowloads.
And the Maoriland Government richly de-
serves all that is being said about it. But
it is not because of the price of the local
chop and bread and butter that the people
have a real grievance. It is in the scandal-
ous fact that the enormous profits made out
of the war by a section of the community
are being converted into public debt to bur-
den the people long after the war is over,
and that the external debt has been- sys-
tematically increased. The results are these
that while the common herd are bearing
the weight of war-time costs and thus en-
riching the profiteer, that individual is mak-
ing them carry practically the whole burden
of the war now and arranging for them to
carry it indefinitely afterwards. In the face of
an outrage such as this people who howl for
cheaper steak are either blind or think about
nothing except their breakfast. Maoriland
is the shocking example of war time, train-
ing millions of war profit she has sponged
without shame on the outside lender and has
permitted the owners of local war-won mil-
lions to exchange them for Government
bonds, thus establishing a mortgage over
the community that will gall it for genera-
tions. The Government appears to regard
the visible consequences of this as prosper-
itv.” So it is for a few people. For the
rest it means a struggle with something as
much like prosperity as an iceberg is like a
side, of bacon. Meanwhile the man who
wants either more wages or a cheaper meal
is being recommended by Fat to tell his
wife to be more economical in the kitchen;
and while a frenzied argument proceeds on
this aspect of the matter, the Government
goes cheerfully on encouraging annexation
of wealth under cover of the nation’s army.
It is a disreputable story.
One Big City.
Sydney congestionists can now look upon
their work and wonder. The steady increase
of bricks and land values has been their
pride and joy; and the fact that the State
was listing more and more in the direction
of the single port they permitted to remain
open didn’t worry them at all as long as
it meant cash in their pockets. People
with some regard for the cost of hauling
produce grown in the North and South kicked
against the absurdity of dragging all things
through the Redfern tunnel; but the-con-
gestionists continued to smile, well knowing
that the desire on the part of the enemy to
open new ports and build new cities could
amount to nothing as long as Sydney held
enough votes of either party to guarantee
that no statesman would dare to make
decentralisation a live issue. But while the
fat congestionist chortled over the thickening
of the suburbs, the thin Labor strategist
saw advantages in the centralisation of
population also. If the w’orkers were all in
one place they could squeeze Fat among his
own bricks any time they liked—or they
were sanguine enough to believe that they
could. So Labor wasn’t sincere about
decentralisation either; and though Port
Stephens and Eden and Jervis Bay were
occasionally mentioned, nobody ever moved
hand or foot towards opening them for traffic.
Decentralisation was an occasional wag of
the tongue—nothing more. And now Labor
starts, as it imagines, to squeeze its oppo-
nents; and the great public is jambed
against the bricks in a most unpleasant way.
As that great public consists mostly of
workers, it follows that Labor is squeezing
itself much more than the supposed enemy;
but the congestionist, too, is getting some-
thin? of what he asked for. One strike or
10 strikes may collapse, yet the effect on
the people who know how easily a food
shortage and other discomforts can be
brought about is likely to remain. Land
booms and big values for residential and
business sites are the result of a confidence
that the place where the land lies is desir-
able for work and residence. How many
big strikes with the daily jamb in the trams
and trains and the doubtful or absent butter
in the daily bill of fare are required to make
the small investor declare against Sydney as
a place in which to hoist the domestic hat-
rack? Such investments are largely a
matter of sentiment; and nothing moves
sentiment like the tang of rancid butter and
a homing journey with a 16st. citizen on
your pet corn.
One of the humorous incidents of the
railway and tramway strike in N. S. Wales
was the bland announcement that the Strike
Directors would permit the men to go back
to Work if the cards were withdrawn and
Judge Edmunds was appointed to inquire
into their grievances. The time seems ripe
to give three cheers for Judge Edmunds,
anyhow. At the time of the big coal strike
his Honor was appointed as a special tri-
bunal to deal with the situation, and he
proceeded to do so on lines that will remain
historic. He sat not as a judge, but as a
recorder. “I have to settle this thing,” he
said in effect. “Now what do you want?”
And he handed it out. Ever since he has
been publicly wringing his hands over labor
disturbances. Instead of discouraging
strikes that “settlement” encouraged them:
it shouted at the top of its voice to work-
men that the best way to get all they
wanted was to break the law, and that the
harder they struck the public and the more
seriously they interfered with Australia’s
war-work, the more they could safely ask
for. How far Judge Edmunds was person-
ally responsible for it this paper does not
know. There had been, it will be remem-
bered, a “conference” at which Hughes
had at least indicated the way in which a
“settlement” could be arrived at —the
“settlement” that was eventually adopted.
It was a dreadful mistake; and Judge
Edmunds must at least be held responsible
for firing the gun, even if he didn’t make the
bullet. The subsequent proceedings ought
to be a sufficient warning to any other judge
xvho may be invited to “settle” a dispute on
the same lines.
♦
The refusal of the Fusion Government to
allow a Labor daily paper to be established
at Toowoomba (Q.) leaves a nasty taste in
the mouth. There are two dailies in the
Downs centre ; neither, however, supports the
Labor side in politics. One is owned by the
Groom family, of which an Assistant Minis-
ter in the Fusion Government is a member;
in the other, Tolmie, leader of the Queens-
land State Liberal party, has long been in-
terested. There can be no suggestion that
the proposed new paper would be of an
irresponsible character. The people who
were promoting it were local business and
other people of good standing. It is true
that they had mostly advocated the anti-
side during the Conscription campaign, and
The Bulletin believes that in that they
were hopelessly wrong; but this gives their
opponents no right to say that they shall
have no platform on which to discuss the
question and advocate their views. This
country has no room for autocrats, no
matter on which side they are. The fight in
Europe is against autocracy; _ so is the pre-
sent struggle in Australia against the strike-
bosses. The Fusion Government took the
ground that its opponents should not be
given an opportunity to state their case
because of the scarcity of paper and the in-
advisability of allowing capital to be in-
vested in such enterprises while money was
wanted for War Loans. There is as great a
scarcity of paper in England as in Aus-
tralia—greater, in fact, because the Ameri-
can and Japanese mjlls are more available
to us. But that, didn’t prevent the Fusion
publishing All for Australia and scatter-
ing more paper in England and France in a
month than the little Toowoomba Labont.es
would consume in three years. And as for
locking up in plant a little money that might
be invested in War Loan, it wasn’t pro-
posed, as tlie Government was informed, to
import a ha’porth of machinery; there
would have been merely an exchange of
money from one Australian to another, and
not a penny less would have been available
for war purposes. Altogether, then, the
reasons given for prohibiting the paper are
pitifully poor; and one is driven to believe
that the real reasons are so discreditable that,
the Government dare not mention them.
The cursed old doctrine, on which the Free-
trader mostly relies, that the foreigner is
always better than we are, crops up in all
sorts'of places. The other day, for instance,
the S. M. Herald, after lecturing the Aus-
tralian strikers, got off this smug observa-
tion :— ■
How different it all is from the condition of things
in the United Kingdom, where Labor, far from seek-
ing to place obstacles in the way of the successful
prosecution of the war, is assisting the Government
to the very limit of its power. We all know that
Labor has ’ its grievances in Great Britain, but to
its credit it is content to win the war first and
leave the settling of its own disputes till peace has
been declared.
Yet on the next page, under its biggest penny-
chasing headlines, the old bad Australian
had to announce “very grave labor unrest’’
in Britain, a strike of 9000 boilermakers ou
the Mersey—they were “engaged in urgent
work” —the “gravest probability” of 40,000
railway drivers and firemen being on strike
within tlwee days (it actually happened
within two days) and “uneasiness” all
round ! The solemn truth is that until the
Australian workman was perverted by in-
ferior new-chums from the United Kingdom
and elsewhere, he took a more serious view
of his national responsibilities than the
British workman ever dreamed of.
Witii the assistance of the Commonwealth
and the States the Australian people have
acquired the largest public debt in the world
per head of population. For five million
people a load of £300.000.(100 is fairly sub-
stantial. If anybody had mentioned it
before the war as a possibility, everyone else
would probably have fallen down dead with
fright. If there was something material to
show for it all the position would be less
distracting. But very large hunks have been
cheerfully blewed on having a good time and
other very large portions have been flung into
the furnace of war. The whole thing in-
volves an annual charge of something like
£22.000,000. Added to that there will be
several millions a year to find for pensions.
How Australia is going to foot this bill has
up to date not been given two minutes’
serious consideration by any Parliament
in the Commonwealth. The prevailing
habit is to go on making the bill
larger and leave the settling-up to the
week after next. This is plain madness.
The burden will only be carried through an
immense increase in production and a re-
striction of millions in imports. Many times
this paper has urged the Federal Parliament
to recognise that the problems of war in-
volve the problems of peace, and to prepare
for the stoppage of one and the renewal of
the other. It urges this again. Twiddling
about with a half-baked lump of dough
called “repatriation,” as if Australia was
going to start off fresh where the interrup-
tion took place in 1914, is useless. Re-
patriation is only a part of the general
reconstruction there must be here as every-
where else in the world. No country is so
favorably situated as Australia for getting
ready to climb out of the soup. None can
less afford to waste time. In none is the
policy of let ’er slide followed so blindly. It
looks as if the politicians had buried the
alarm-clock and decided to remain in bed
till the fire-brigade arrived.
“Kanberka” : The recent Royal Commis-
sion on Canberra had nothing to say about
the comic-opera attempts at bridge-building.
Two bridges only were constructed —a high-
level one over the ’Bidgee at the Cotter junc-
tion, built on reinforced concrete piers, with
steel girders, and a low-level timber one over
the Molonglo at Acton. The first was origi-
nally designed and commenced 10ft. lower
than its present deck level, and one two-ton
girder had been placed in position when the
river came down in derisive flood, swept the
girder downstream and left balanced on the
centre pier a willow tree weighing several
tons. “Authority” then decided that the joke
was not high enough, and added 10ft.
But the flood that skittled the work
was only a moderate one, and the
Oldest Inhabitant (several of him) per-
sists that the deck is still 10ft. too
low to escape an Old Man flood of the ’9O
type. The low-level affair at Acton was a
worse failure. It just managed to get its
deck awash with every fresh in the river,
catching every floating log that came down ;
whereupon it would be out of commission
for weeks while traction-engines hauled
away the timber and the approaches were
reformed. When last I saw it its deck was
tilted at an angle of five degrees down-
stream, and in plan it looked like a flattened
figure 8. It finally capsized and was swept
away. But the interest bill remains. There
are many fine bridges, both high and low
level, in the district, that stand as a monu-
ment to the late C. U. O’Hanlon, for over
20 years resident-engineer there for Public
Works. He supervised the construction of
two high-level bridges over the Queanbeyan
and Molonglo rivers in the town, the high-
level bridge over the ’Bidgee at Tharwa and
a low-level bridge lower down the river at
Uriarra. This last, though submerged three
or four times a year, has been standing over
10 years. With these examples before them
the muddling Department could not even
construct its bridges at the first attempt
without abominable waste. Yet nobody has
suffered —nobody, I mean, but the unfortu-
nate citizens of Australia, and apparently
they don’t care how much is wasted. If
they did, they would surely shift the people
who were responsible.
“Huffin-Guffin” : Has the Defence
Department ever had any system of record-
ing the men’s special capabilities? In a
Vic. camp a year or so ago a man who kuew
nothing about butchering was set to cut up
meat for the cook. A mate standing near,
doing nothing or thereabouts, pitied the in-
offensive carcase, and took the cleaver. He
The Return.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a movement in the dusk when light
has fled,
There’s a sound the deepest hush can never
still,
For the silent dark is shaken by the tread
Of an army that the years can never kill—
’Tis the marching of our twenty thousand
dead.
In the evening when the birds flock home to
rest,
In the night-time when a mist has hid the
moon,
They come tramping through the stillness,
breast to breast,
And the shimmer of the burning sun at noon
Shows a phantom army fading in the West.
There are boys with laughing eyes and
steady lips,
There are stalwart men who knew and loved
the sun,
And their spirits shall not suffer an eclipse
Now that all their days of bitterness are
done
In this Hell of burning towns and broken
ships.
From the sodden fields of France they died
to save,
Froi> ’he desert where the sand is white as
foam,
From Lae horror and the darkness of the
grave
They have torn their spirits free and wan-
dered home
To the quiet of the Bush that bred them
brave.
The plains they rode are dancing in the
heat,
The sandy creeks they knew are still the
same,
And familiar roads shall feel their marching
feet
Till the scrolls of Time have blotted out
their name,
And the youngest heart that loved them
ceased to beat.
.‘ nd they shall not know the palsy of the
old,
Nor the broken hopes that slay the heart of
Youth ;
The hungry dust can never gain a hold
On their living fires of honor and of truth
That shall warm us when our blood is grow-
ing cold.
There’s a movement in the dusk when light
has fled.
There’s a line of marching men beneath the
stars; . , ■ .
O deathless Youth, whose valiant blood has
fed , ,
The altars and the smoking fanes of Mars—
Youth immortal in our twenty thousand
dead!
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


THE FARMER’S BEST POLICY
is to become a shareholder and policy-holder in the company which has been sneeiallv * , . , , . . , .
1 designed to undertake his insurance business.
Tl c Farmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of
Australia
Limited
is an insurance company managed
LOWEST CURRENT RATES. ' ABSOLUTE PROTECTION
FIRE —WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION MARINE.
By becoming a shareholder in the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-op§rative Insurance Co. of Australia T tri u tit
profits. In other words, he secures his Insurance at Cost Price. " ’ ’’ Policy-holder shares in the company s
BECOME A SHAREHOLDER—Write the Manager, who will forward full particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE» SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
was a butcher in private life. Now I main-
tain that it should not have been left to
chance and good nature for that man’s
proper job to discover him. Again, I am
the father of a soldier who was fortunate
enough to be employed in civil life by a
firm which makes up the difference between
its employees’ military and civil pay.
The boy speaks French and German
ns he does English. Yet he has never
been offered an opportunity of re-
cording his special qualifications. My
young Billjim, disgusted with the lack of
opportunity of using his knowledge, which
lie feels could be made use of, talks of writ-
tug to his firm, surrendering his claims on
its patriotism. He had hoped to have
relieved his boss long ago, fairly and
squarely, without recourse to “smoodge” or
“influence.” But he knows better now.
The Gamble in the Shambles.
Thebe is another peace proposal in the air
—this time from the Vatican. The essential
points of it are that Germany should shift
out of Belgium and France, that the Ger-
man colonies should be restored, that there
should be guarantees of future peace and
the freedom of the seas. The likelihood of
this leading to anything more substantial
than vague talk is exceedingly remote, for
the very solid reason that agreements with
Berlin have never been worth 2d. and that
until the power of militarist Germany is
scotched no peace is possible which would
not leave the mailed fist a winner. In all
European countries the desire of the people
for peace is growing more intense, but in
Germany, keenly though the autocracy may
be anxious to see an end of the struggle, its
war-weariness is not yet come to the stage
at which popular ideas will be allowed to
determine national policy. The temper of
Germany must therefore still be the deciding
factor in the attitude of the Allies. Germany
hopes to do something more than merely
avoid defeat. So do her opponents. But it
cannot yet be said that the Allies are any
nearer their objective than the Hun is handy
to his; for, though he has been halted, the
menace of his arms has not been broken.
Meanwhile the bloody business goes on in
Flanders, small advances being made along
the British Front; but at what cost and
what the actual effect may be upon the enemy
is concealed in gloom almost as dark as that
which shrouds events in Russia, There are
still three or four months of fighting weather
ahead. If at the end of that time the situa-
tion is in its general outline the same as
to-day, the prospects will look none too
cheerful, unless the American is beginning
to arrive in substantial numbers. For this
country there is the additional circumstance
that Australian transports have been held
up in Australian waters because a crowd of
deluded toilers are anxious to bring about
“a change in society,” or something. This
is a disgrace to the Commonwealth and an
appropriate finale to the insane policy which
has blinded the bulk of the community to
the issues at stake in the war and to the
progress of the struggle. If what is occur-
ring in Australia was happening in America
or in England the war would be over before
the summer, and the change in society would
arrive all right.
Mary Gilmore wants to know: —
The returned soldier should not be expected to
stand the same work-strain as the man who has
never undergone his terrible experiences. Conse-
quently I would ask the Commissioners and the Gov-
ernment whether the returned soldiers employed in
the N.S.W. railways are to be put on the same card
system as other men, or is there to be a difference?
Also will the Government usage be a standard for
private employers?
Apparently Mrs. Gilmore, wise in so many
things, has an idea that costing systems are
a new invention of the Dividend devil. As a
matter of fact, there probably are not a
dozen large private manufacturers in Aus-
tralia who haven’t some costing system; and
whether it’s worked with cards or
otherwise is merely a matter of de-
tail. The object of the system is
to allow the employer to find out exactly
where he is at any moment—and it is the
absence of that knowledge which lands
traders in the Bankruptcy Court. The use
of cards will not prejudicially affect the
employment of under-standard returned sol-
diers at all. It will, on the other hand, sim-
plify their employment. Without the card
system an employer might hesitate to engage
under-standard returned men because, unless
results were separated, he could not distin-
guish between their work and those of men
from whom better results should come. The
boss will be far readier to employ the under-
standard returned soldier if he can be pro-
tected from other men loafing on their job
and blaming the under-standard returned
men for the poor aggregate results. Returned
men therefore needn’t fear the card system.
But men who want to make returned men
the. scapegoat for their own loafing ought to
fear it greatly.
The Bulletin goes to press this week with
Australia in a state of chaos—steamers tied
up, mines idle, “volunteers” pouring into
Sydney to toil on wharves, the shadow of a
meat famine hanging over the butchers’
shops, railways disorganised, thousands of
men walking about admiring the scenery
and vaguely wondering what they are doing
it for. Incidentally, three alleged leaders
of the strike in Sydney have been arrested
for conspiracy, a member of the Seamen’s
Union stands charged with counselling
divers persons in divers places to join in the
campaign of doing nothing but hold the com-
munity up, and great is the bitterness of the
hour. The only things clear are that the
railway men who started the ball rolling
have discovered that they were led into a
foolish disturbance, that 90 per cent, of them
are very sorry for it, and that the Labor
Parliamentary party in the States and the
Commonwealth has been reduced to pathetic
ineptitude. In this upheaval the fortunes of
trades-unionists all over Australia are being
left to the care of obscure committees trad-
ing upon the loyalty of the rank and file.
For what? They do not know. What they
are actually doing is to inflict almost irre-
parable damage on the cause of Labor and
on Australia.
From a Commonwealth Government pro-
clamation issued last week
At the bidding of a handful of irresponsible men,
dominated by wild extremists and secret agents of
Germany, transports and even hospital ships cannot
be coaled. Vessels awaiting cargoes of wheat and
flour are empty.
Apparently Hughes thought he was saying
something very bitter about the strikers.
What he really did was to make a charge of
either incompetenev or villainous treachery
against the Defence Department. There is
hardly a country in the world better situated
than Australia to get free of German enemy
influences ; and the Minister who can hang
on to his job after hearing his chief publicly
declare that “secret agents of Germany” are
still upsetting the trade of thb country must
have the armor-plate of a Dreadnought.
Adelaide has an unpleasant scandal,
Kirkham Evans, for years manager and sup-
posed guardian angel of the Boys’ Institute,
having left for foreign parts under a cloud.
Some of the newspapers say he should be
prosecuted, as he would have been if merely
money had been concerned; others say it
would be unwise to make the scandal public.
But nothing could be much worse than what
is being generally suggested already. Evans
is understood to be well on his way to
America.
Prof. Laby, of Melb. Uni., tells The
Bulletin that he really isn’t local sec. of
the Imperial Federation League, as a writer
on August 9 alleged, but is merely acting-
sec. of the Round Table in Australia; and
“the Round Table is not pledged to the
advocacy of Imperial Federation, but exists
to promote the study of the relations between
the different parts of the British Common-
wealth.”
The, Naval Board is now prepared to dis-
tribute silver war badges “to persons who
have served in H.M. Naval Forces since the
outbreak of war, and who have been dis-
charged from the forces on account of wounds
or sickness or causes beyond their own con-
trol.” Forms of application may be had
from the district naval-officer in each State,
and, when completed, they should be sent
direct to the Naval Secretary, Melbourne.
Returned Billjim was weary of the ques-
tions the consistent drinkers had dropped
down upon him in the bar. “To tell you
gorstruth,” he said, “I found it horribly
monotonous. It was the monotony of it got
me down.” “Why, what was you doin’?”
came the next question. Billjim sighed. “I
was shelling prawns,” he said.
“C.A.M.” : It was a standing joke among
Solomon Island residents and travellers that
Captain Donaldson and the officers of the
“reported missing” Matunga were all married
men with homes in Sydney and that they
spent every hour after leaving the Heads
calculating "the moment of their return. An
hour’s delay might not matter very much to
the other Island boats, but it mattered a lot
to the Matunga. It was with great glee
therefore they all heard how Capt. Donald-
son fared after one trip. He sent a wire
to his wife announcing the expected date of
his arrival, but managed to beat it by 15
hours. Arriving at his home a strange ser-
vant opened the door and said that Mrs.
Donaldson was out. The Captain introduced
himself and wanted to go inside to wait, but
was firmly refused. His identity was denied,
as the careful doorkeeper knew that the
Captain was not coming home till to-morrow,
and the door was shut in his face. There
was nothing for it but to sit on the verandah
for two hours and await his wife’s return. A
reserved Scotchman, without the gay-dog air
that makes so many sea captains popular, he
was genuinely liked, and news of his safety
will be as anxiously looked for by many ship-
board acquaintances as by more intimate
friends.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “Grumpy
Her Majesty’s ... So Long, Letty
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle I’lay*
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving I ictures
Unign Theatres .. Moving I ictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Belle of New York’’
Royal “Daddy Long Legs
K lN o's “Much Ado about Nothing
Princess’s “Seven Days Leave
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Olymima Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
M ,-T.RA Moving Pictures
Britannia : "-.'i Moving Pictures
Playhouse “The Charity that Began at Home
Shakspeare’s “Much Ado,” as staged at
Melbourne King’s by lan Maclaren on behalf
of Bailey and Grant, is a handsome produc-
tion —mightily so considering the low
charges for admission —and the fashion of
the. performance is in harmony with its
clothes. The mind’s eye of the present his-
torian rests lovingly on the final scene in
Leonata’s garden as it was on Saturday
night while the vegetable tributes were being
handed up. It was a charming spectacle —
an ample apology for the liberty the pro-
ducer takes in departing from the text of
the Bard Immortal, who places the _ scene
indoors. Boucicault made the re-union of
“Seven Days
Leave," at
Melbourne
Princess's.
Stephen, who
was rejected
all round.
Hero and Claudio an
open-air function, and,
following him, every pro-
ducer nowadays takes
Shakspeare as much out
of the house as possible.
But a little too much use
is made of Leonata’s
garden this time. After
the awful behavior of
Claudio and Don Pedro
in the Cathedral, where
the bride-elect is stag-
gered by the assertion
that she ought to get
buried instead of married,
Shakspeare made the two
insulting gentlemen meet
the lady’s sad old pater
in the street and come to
friendly terms again. But
in the present condensa-
tion Claudio and the
Don are found strolling
through the garden whilst
they are still under the
impression that they
never want to see the old
owner any more. Except
in this inconsistency the
condensation of “Much
Ado” into four acts is an
improvement. There is
quite enough scenic effect
in the show as it is.
Brough and Boucicault
stretched it into six acts
(one more than even
the long - winded Bard
dreamed of) and the
splendor and the waits
were excessive. The old
comedy doesn’t seem to
deserve any more decora-
tive treatment than it receives at the
King’s. The story has less grit than
“Taming of the Shrew,” and the lan-
guage doesn’t make it comparable with
“As You Like It” or “Twelfth Night.”
But somehow the little side-story of how a
contentious spinster and bachelor were de-
luded into matrimony has become a typical
moral lesson, notwithstanding the utter lack
of subtlety in the gulling of them. Also
Dogberry has become proverbial, although he
is the crudest possible example of pompous
stupidity in officialdom ; and the villain of the
piece is a puny mischief-maker whose fugitive
success is a rather ridiculous reflection on the
intelligence of his dupes. The other leading
characters are not notable on their own
account, and they add nothing to ' the
store of quotations, except Claudio’s “Time
goes on crutches,” etc., and two or three
other little bits. But it all admits of gay
and festive production, and that makes it
worth while.
lan Maclaren is an easy, manly Benedick,
never more likeable than when he solilo-
quises on Beatrice’s alleged passion, while
the conspirators are hiding near, like the
spoofsters of Malvolio in “Twelfth Night.”
He naturalises the character as that of one
needing very little persuasion to fall in love
with a pretty woman who had always paid
him the compliment of teasing him in public.
In appearance and style Maclaren is a slim-
mer and less assertive Oscar Asche. Mar-
garet. Sutcliffe, _ as Beatrice, has a note or
two in her voice that are echoes of Mrs
Brough in the same part. She plavs it more
convincingly than Mrs. B. did. though she
makes the lively spinster a trifle severe
and hard. Her apneal to Benedick in the
Cathedral, “Kill Claudio,” has force in it
but it isn’t the cry of a warm-hearted woman
who would fain be revenged on the slanderer
of her clearest girl friend. Yet the impres-
sive Cathedral scene, admirably put on by
scenic artist Rowell, may be said to set the
hall-mark of efficiency on all concerned in it
Greenaway, a matured but debonair Claudio
rises to the top of the occasion when he
comes to give his girl the dirty chuck even
at the altar steps. Madge Surtees, an un-
satisfactory Hero in the lighter scenes, seems
genuinely upset when she hears herself hor-
ribly scandalised. George Bryant (heo-
nata) and Ivay Souper (Don Pedro) become
as benevolently grave as they had been
benevolently cheerful; and Lockhart, as Friar
Francis, speaks his lines like a Christian
and a good Shakspearean scholar. For the
rest James Nunn is a melodramatically out-
spoken villain, Lawrence and Bertram are
a satisfactory contrast in despicable min-
ions, Bellairs is an ancient Antonio, and
Yetty Landau and Ruby Raymond—especi-
ally the former —are effective girls in attend-
ance on Hero. Duggan is a good Dogberry
in a plain, straightforward way. There
are not many humorous details about Dug-
gan’s acting, but he stands for a passable
caricature of the sort of person Dogberry
might have been if such a purely English
type of ass had ever been a possible con-
stable in Messina. His big, rasping voice
and ultra-comic appearance deserve better
support than they get from Driscoll and the
three dull watchmen. A lady with an un-
pronounceable name sings Balthazar’s song
sweetly, and a ballet of six girleens in the
first act adds to the charm of the entertain-
ment.
❖* * *
The Grumpy that Cyril Maude, with
some discreet assistance from the authors of
the comedy, presents at Sydney Criterion, is
a terrible old man, whom his relatives, were
he truly flesh and blood, would long before
have shut up in an Old Gents’ Home or
persuaded to live somewhere beyond their
reach. The servants he bullies and assaults
must be paid high wages to stand his tan-
trums. He is much more than grumpy: he
is an octogenarian with unpleasant habits
running amok. Yet the author’s delightful
assumption is that everybody loves him. The
press agent can turn remarkable people into
heroes.
The present revival of “So Long, Letty,”
at Sydney Majesty’s, will end with two Doro-
thy Brunton farewell nights (August 30 and
31), the big theatre being quite insufficient
to house at one time all the people who
want to say good-bye. This in a strike-
lamed city will be something for press-agents
to brag about when we are all older and
have exchanged our present set of worries
for new ones. The Australian star romps
through the part of the ragtiming suburban
gadder who makes the household’s last egg
into a shampoo for herself instead of boilitfg
it for her careful little gardening husband
(C. H. Workman). Field Fisher once more
swaggers as the cigar-laden sport who sleeps
next door, neglects the garden and is waited
upon by “this ponderous domestic person”
(Connie Ediss). That part fits petulant
Connie best. Frith repeats his rapid and
clever caricature of a tattooed and sun-
crazed life-saver, and William Greene is the
decorative stage-lover who has no job to do.
Marie Eaton, ragtime specialist, is provided
"SO LONG, LETTY." at Sydney Majesty's.
Chas. Workman as Tommy Robbins and
Field Fisher as Harry Miller.
with several good high-speed numbers, and
wakes up the house -with them. As a vocal-
ist she has a valuable knack of getting away
to a flying start. The work of the chorus


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
A SPIRIT OF QUALITY.
gllbetsdry gin.
PURE and WHOLESOME.
SEE THAT YOU GET GILBEY’S.
TUCKER <a CO., Sydney, Sole Agents.
This celebrated Gin is
specially recommended
for those suffering
from
KIDNEY
COMPLAINTS
and
RHEUMATISM.
A Quality-Sweater
Made in England for Peapes.
Pure all-wool of the right weight for incoming weather
—a dependable, well-woven jacket-sweater of scarce
quality, which could not be replaced to-day except at
25% extra cost.
Get one for Summer wear—buy early whilst procurable
at a moderate price.
Vest-style as shown.
Men’s size, 21/-; Outsize, 22/-
With Polo Collar:
Men’s, 22/6; Outsize, 23/6.
Colors: Grey, Navy, Brown, White.
We pay postage. <
Please state chest measurements and color required. ,/
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MENS OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
is sound, and Andrew’ MacCunn’s orchestra
gets the most out of Earl Carroll’s dashing
music.
The Palace, like the Grand Opera House,
will be dark until the unions make peace in
Sydney, and the evening trams and trains
feed the shows with amusement-hunters once
more. People can’t “Look Who’s Here” if
they can’t get into town.
Sydney Tivoli is bidding for the available
strike theatre-goers with a lengthened bill.
J. C. Mack, Ameri-
can panto dame,
with the assistance
of a co., delivers
a cheerful potted
version of “Mother
Goose,” and Vera
Pearce and the
best of the Follies
do 45 minutes full
of theological in-
terest. (Special
rates for divinity
students and tem-
perance missioners
who desire to study
the effect of stage-
drink on comedian
George Welch.)
Talleur Andrews
is carolling again,
and Billie Seaton
displays her Stars
and Stripes ac-cent
in song and her
pretty figure in
the quaint Buster
“SO LONG, LETTY ,”
at Sydney Majesty's.
Life-saver Frith.
Brown costume, while accompanist Ray
Traynor extracts ragtime from the piano.
* * *
Various eminent persons are still taking
“Seven Days’ Leave” of their senses at Mel-
bourne Princess’s. Conspicuous among them
is the bogus Belgian, Paul Lamond, who
disguises himself with a sore leg in an effort
to deceive the Empiah’s bravest son and
lure him and his secret into a submarine.
But even Lamond is comparatively sensible
beside Stephen Darrell, who, having failed
for the trenches, wanders about yearning
dismally for Lady Mary Heather. When his
yearn is at last rewarded, he ought to be
allowed to have her for keeps. But it seems
that she is reserved for Captain Terry
Fielding, whereupon Stephen, weakened by
pious appeals to his better nature, surrenders
his beauteous prize without a struggle. After
that there is nothing for him to do but fold
his rejection c-ertif. into a dunce’s cap.
At Melbourne Royal the lives of Daddy
Longlegs and his auburn protegee continue
to be blighted during the brief interval
between Acts 3 and 4, but their hollow mis-
understanding blows out before 10.30 p.m.
“Daddy” is still running to an extra matinee
per week.
* * st-
TwO more repetitions of “The Red
Widow,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, will be
followed on Saturday by “The Belle of New
York.” The cast will be about the same as
it was last time, with the substitution of
Gladys Moncrieff for Ethel Cadman in the
name part. The Polite Lunatic will pur-
sue Bronson for one week only.
The bill at Melbourne Tivoli reveals no
changes from last, week’s array of talent,
which was strongest in its feats of legs and
arms. The Camille Trio, also Clyde Cook
and winsome Ruth Budd, are artists who
have learned to do big things with no appar-
ent effort, whereas some of the other per-
formers are visibly laboring tp amuse in a
very small way. All they do is to keep the
public wondering why they were brought
across the seas to do it.
Of the latest Melbourne art-show: —
Harold Herbert, who lias a hundred-odd water-
colors at the Fine Art Society’s rooms in Alfred
Place, has grown in stature since the writer last
considered him. The former Harold was a rac},
descriptive painter of hard cobalt skies and blazing
noons, and the primary colors rushed to his brush
io express his enthusiasm. Now the artist's art is
cooling, there is a greyness creeping into his work,
and we get impressions that no longer recall a
scene-painter's shorthand. Yet some of his sea-
pieces still seem rather empty; it would need the
exquisite talent of Hilder to give the calm of “The
Collier,” for example, its proper atmosphere of
o-hostly enchantment. Incidentally, there is a bit of
moonlight painting (No. 17) that is taught in the
suburbs for a bob a lesson. But Harold Herbert s
works are charming when his ability is challenged
by subtler times of day. He manages to give snow-
scapes an unusual pictorial value, and as a cloud-
fancier he is ever engaging. Also, he paints gums in
a manner that will surely lead to his being damned
as an imitator of Heysen— as if the successful plagiar-
ism of Heysen’s rare and delicate methods would not
iu itself be an exploit.
SJ: * * *
Enid Bennett, her cat, and a drop,of grog
are the principal features of ‘the Girl Gloiy
at Melbourne Majestic just now. The film
is a temperance tract and Enid is the charm-
ing argument in favor of a dry town. She
plays her part with more confidence and
riper art than she did in the first film wherein
her ghost travelled to Australia. In the second
portion of the Majestic programme Alice
Brady parades as “The Angel of Mercy.”
Also there are a number of comedians in a
Triangle knock-about, “His Parlor Zoo.”
* * *
Another Sally in Our Alley is holding the
eye at Hoyt’s Melbourne house this week.
She is the English actress Hilda Trevelyan,
add is a more circumspect illustrator of
feminine emotions than the Yankee Louise
Glaum, who lately Sallied into Australian
notice. Hilda represents the demure decora-
tion of an ex-blacksmith’s life, who comes
to him after sin and suffering had laid him
out and offers him the treasure of her thou-
sand smiles. It is a pretty little love story
without the heaving embonpoint and Graeco-
Roman ardor of the average American out-
burst. Hoyt’s other strip of fiction, “The
Silent Voice.” shows the lovely Francis X.
Bushman piling up casualties with his
amorous glance, and views of Uncle Sam’s
famous Academy at Annapolis exhibit the
hardening of young Samuel for a naval
career.
** * *
Adelaide Royal is making a feature of the
reformation of criminals. “Turn to the Right”
has just come in with its treacly sentiment;
and between times the house was con-
tent with pictures, including the “Honor
System.” In real flesli-and-blood drama, the
Anderson Co. at the Tivoli has found some-
thing good in “Prince and Beggarmaid,” and
is paying it the unusual compliment of a
second week. Cross is as heroic as ever, but
Rutland Beckett is villain, to allow Fitz-
herbert to take the sympathetic part of the
hunchback prince. The Majestic has parted
with “Stiffy” Phillips and “Mo” Rene after
a long season. Prince’s Players and a well-
balanced variety lot replace them. Also
there has been much good music, from the
Bach Society, from Winsloe Hall’s Orchestra,
and on the lighter side from Evelyn Scotney
and Howard White.
It’s in the air. A number of lads attend-
ing a Northcote (Vic.) State School held a
meeting the other day, and solemnly and
unanimously passed a resolution “that we
absent ourselves from the scholarship class.”
In the interests of the boys one of the
teachers had been generdusly giving extra
lessons before and after ordinary school
hours; but the boys thought the teacher had
exceeded a reasonable working day, and
“came out.” When the strike idea gets hold
of the kindergartens, Australia will be in
fine trim to face the future.
A note from Petrograd :
The most dramatic features of the Revolution were
the captures of the three big traitors, Sturmer, Pro-
topopoff and Sukhomlinoff. Sturmer, who developed
the courage of a rat when the Czardom was abol-
ished, was collared while picking his way through a
typically Russian menu at his club table. With his
napkin still tucked under his ears, he was led to a
motor-car and hurried away to the fortress of St.
Peter and Paul, where he is alleged to have suicided.
Protopopoff, the old Minister of the Interior and the
instigator of the police methods that caused the
revolt, dodged the first frenzied search for reaction-
aries, and, on appearances, spent several days in a
drain. He was dirty and dishevelled when he sur-
rendered himself to the Duma one night, but im-
proved after a bath, a feed and a change of clothes.
Sukhomlinoff was the only one arrested with his
uniform and orders thick upon him. Also, he was
the only one who was threatened with bodily harm.
When he was dragged to the Duma, cringing and
cowering, some of the soldiers, remembering his
ruinous work at the War Office, wanted to out him
then and there. But the great Kerensky intervened,
stood in front of the menacing bayonets, and
shouted: “Every man in Russia is now to have a
fair trial.” That simple statement, which the mob
acclaimed, revealed the immense stride in civilisa-
tion that Russia had taken by peacefully sacking the
old regime.
The lunatic who would use a cat-o'-nine
tails to smooth out the kinks in the other
lunatic got a dose of advice which made him
grimace a few days ago. It was in Maori-
land. and the first lunatic was collected
together as a Grand Jury; and having delib-
erated on cases of indecent assault upon
children, he hurried into the Supreme Court
to urge that persons convicted of such
offences should be “severely flogged.” Justice
Denniston apparently wmsn’t sure that he
had heard aright. Did the jury mean that
in every case of indecent assault on children
the sentence must include a severe flogging?
“Certainly,” answered the foreman. “Umph,”
said his Honor. Then :—■
I feel bound to state that, as a result of long
experience, I am satisfied that, owing to the extreme
variance in culpability in cases of this class, such a
rule would do more to decrease the probability of
conviction than otherwise.
Still, what is the experience of a venerable
Judge compared with the experiments of a
vacant greengrocer!
AT POVERTY POINT.
In a letter home Rosina Buekman, the
Maoriland soprano, starring in Beecham
grand opera at Drury Lane, says that the
pill-rich conductor intends touring Austral-
asia with his co. and giving grand opera in
English.
“P.X.”: Union Theatres, Ltd., generally
known as the Picture Combine, though it
is only the show part of it, has taken over
Waddington’s halls in Sydney. There is
no amalgamation, strictly. That is to say,
Waddington’s Co. will still have a separate
existence, deriving its revenue from rents,
etc.
“Tarwin”: South Yarra (Melb.) Picture
Theatre, burnt out the other day, has a ver-
satile boss in V. Upton Brown. He was
one time headmaster of Wesley College
Preparatory School, and had the knack of
being “one of the boys.” The “Wesley Col-
lege Song Book,” the first of its kind here,
owes its existence to his efforts, and as an
amateur actor he was appreciable. When he
put away the chalk he entered the movie
world by way of the Prahran Lyric, and
Alec Lorrimore, of the Paramount Co., who
aspires to produce Australian movie thrillers.
was the first man in Melbourne to advertise
his programme in detail. Incidentally, he
introduced the word “photo-play.” Leaving
the Lyric, he hung a sheet in the South
Yarra Skating Rink, and did good business.
Now that a fire has come his way I’m wait-
ing to see him bob uf) smiling and coin
money from the ashes.
“Peg-Leg”: I agree with “A.S.” (B.
9/8/Y7) that we have the material in Aus-
tralia for the production of good pictures ;
what we lack is the assistance of State and
Federal Governments, of the army and navy,
and of every branch of commercial
life —assistance that is freely accorded
to film men in the U.S.A. I wanted
a desk telephone for use in a drama;
but it was only after nine weeks of
writing and interviewing the G.P.O. that I
was allowed to take an instrument from a
heap of about a thousand. Then I had to
guarantee its return with a sum large enough
to secure bail for a murderer. They blocked
us taking pictures on the trains and railway
stations for a long time, and although we
eventually obtained written permission from
the Commissioners to snap a scene from the
rear of a train, the guard refused to let us
aboard. The old Darling-hurst Gaol used to
be the rock on which the hopes of many
directors went to pieces ; and now it means
sudden death to be seen near the harbor
foreshores with a camera. Even officialdom
in the Cold Country unbent sufficiently to
allow Hall Caine into the central naval base
to film “The Manxman” ; but out here the
law will shift you on if you merely stop to
do a street scene in the dingy fastnesses of
Woolloomooloo.
“Futsac”: “Switching”— i.e., running the
same picture at a couple of different
shows, as described by “Ato” (B. 9/8/'37)- —
is one of the most profitable methods of dis-
tribution the film-renters know. A fleet of
10 motor-cycles is at work on it every night
in Sydney—and under yearly contract, too.
The record Australian switch was established
last November, when four copies of the Mel-
bourne Cup film were made to go round 52
theatres in and about Sydney on the evening
after the race.
From E. C. Davidson
Re Bulletin (16/8/’l7) on “All Australian Night.”
As “The Benefit” was meant to be a travesty in every
way, the acting was in accordance. Otherwise I
agree with your “oldest and baldest show-critic.”
“0.K.” continues the Great Ko-Ko Con-
troversy
I am well content to keep on disagreeing with
“Stargazer” concerning the Ko-Kos we have met.
My friend insists that “the best Gilbertian effects
are secured by the employment of deliberate, extra-
vagant and wanton contrast between the man and his
words” without regard to the character represented.
Seeing that the character of Ko-Ko is that of a
flirtatious cheap tailor who was rushed into the
position of Lord High Executioner, it is a fact
beyond question that Vernon’s loud, forceful and
somewhat gruesome representation was at odds with
the character. He was a wanton contrast with the
words he uttered. Thereby he realised “Stargazer’s"
conception of the best possible Gilbertian effect!
Well, “Stargazer” is welcome to his theory of Gil-
bertian humor as far as I’m concerned ; but he can’t
stick to it without admitting that the same Vernon,
by the same token, was not humorous in the parts
wherein his appearance was not in wanton contrast
with the words he uttered —such as the Majali-General
in “Pirates of Penzance” and the Lord Chancellor in
“lolanthe” and the Grand Inquisitor in “Gondoliers.”
Anyhow, the theoretic contention is nonsense. Gil-
bert intended the humor of Ko-Ko to lie in the fact
that a chirp} - little cheap tailor had been pushed
into vie position of Lord High Executioner, and
that wfliereas he hadn’t the heart to kill a fly he
was ordered to decapitate a “second trombone” and
was ultimately doomed by circumstances to marry an
appallingly large and ugly virago. And the humor
of the “Tit Willow” song (always regarded as rather
strained humor) is in the lapse of the elderly
spinster into mushy sentimentalism when at last she
gets her chance of a miserable little husband who
will not object, to her being “just a teeny weeny bit
bloodthirsty.”
“Stargazer” ignores the fact that all the parts in
Gilbertian operas were written for certain people
whom the martinet author selected and rehearsed.
George Grossmith, a dry little man, was the author’s
model for Ko-Ko. He was the king-pin of the orig-
inal Savoy company which I first saw in “The
Sorcerer.” In that piece Grossmith played the name
part. The humor of it was in the extravagant ab-
surdity of a little man in frock coat and belltopper
who walked out of a marquee with a sandwich in
his hand, and the general style of a petty polite shop-
keeper, being a “dealer in magic and spells” and
a manufacturer of penny curses, in which latter he
did a brisk business, “especially on Saturday nights.”
The character was a typical small shopkeeper and
Grossmith was invited to join the new co. because
he could so efficiently represent the type. That’s
how he came to be cast in later years for the part
of Ko-Ko. Again Grossmith was cast for the job
of Lord Chancellor in “lolanthe” because he looked
the dry little lawyer to the life. These parts were
in fact written for the actor whom Gilbert had in
view. The author had no thought of “extravagant,
wanton contrast between the man and his spoken
words.” The Gilbertian humor is in the absurd
placing of characters.
“Glen H.”: Jimmy Nunn, wbo definitely
retired from the stage four years ago this
month, has succumbed to an offer of
Shakspearean parts and made his re-
appearance in “Much Ado About Nothing.”
Jimmy is a much-travelled mime* having
sampled the limelight in England, the Wilson
republic, China, India, Japan and Egypt—
he was the first English mummer to take a
company to Cairo. Twenty-three years ago
he supported George Miln and Louise Jordan
in “Othello,” the two men playing Othello
and lago .on alternate nights. He appeared
at Sydney Theatre Royal in Rignold’s first
production of “Henry V.,” and subsequently
became Rignold's stage-manager, supported
Mrs. Brown-Potter through her first Mel-
bourne season, and worked with Bandmann.
W. E. Sheridan and William Crcswick. It
is commonly believed that Jimmy would
accept £4 a week under his salary for the
pleasure of spouting Shakspearean blank
verse.
Mrs. Cyril Maude (Winifred Emery) has
been taking a prominent part in Forbes
Robertson’s London revival of the “Third
Floor Back”—which goes better than ever;
now that war-time.has brought the mildly
religious flavor into fashion.
(Continued on page \2.)
THE DEATH SCENE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To pass an empty night away
Bill slapped his dollar down,
And went to see a stirring play
Set out in Melbourne town—
A play about a horrid crime,
And love and sacrifice sublime.
Bill can’t say how they carried on,
Or whom they killed, or why,
Because in Act 2 Uncle John
Resolved that he must die.
He died in low, forgiving tones,
With many coughs and frequent groans.
John told them he was dying, then
He set about the job.
At twenty minutes after ten,
With moan, and twist, and sob,
And gasps about the missing will,
Good Uncle John was dying still.
Here Bill tore out in bitter ire,
No hat upon his head.
“What’s up?” they asked. “Is it a fire?”
Bill faced them ere he fled.
“It’s worse,” cried he with scanty breath—
“l’ve just escaped a ling’rin’ death!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


LADIES! Your Complexion is Part of Your Attire.
A PERFECTLY STYLISH ATTIRE FALLS SHORT Ol ITS EFFECT
if your skin is not in harmony.
EVERY WOMAN CAN BE COMELY by attention to those little details,
which no one can afford to despise.
John S traage w
inter s
.i. TOILET PREPARATIONS WILL HELP YOU.
They have proved the greatest friend to womankind.
Powder (8 tints), New Face Cream (3 colors),
Lakshmi Cream and Lotion, Soap. Hair Foods (Oily
and Non-Oily), Carmine, Dry Shampoo, and Dental
Cream.
Ask for them at The Civil Service, Washington H.
Soul’s, Lassetter’s, McCathie’s, David Jones’, Hor-
derns’, W. T. Waters’, Farmer and Co.’s, McDowells
Ltd., etc., etc.
Send 2d. stamp for Booklet and sample of Soap or
Powder (name the color), or Dental Cream, to John
Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome). Sydney
Office: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street. Melbourne
Office: 331 Collins Slreet. Adelaide Office: Steam-
ship Buildings, Currie Street.
f
<3*
x,v \
It Oman
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
jSPEpiALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN (S, SONS LONDON
AOEJSCJES • ALL - OVER . TH f • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly"
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor'
ably with any Hotel in England.
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINEURY
“Uloola” : In a general sort of way I am
reminded of Jim Clancy, boiler-cleaner at
Eveleigh some years ago. Jim and some of
his mates were in the habit of taking it in
turns to make themselves comfortable in a
boiler, and sleep through the long after-
noons, Once James, who on the previous
night had got in a load of beer, slept for an
hour after knock-off. No; he wasn’t boiled
or suffocated. But he was cursedly indignant
at having put in 60min. longer than neces-
sary on the scene of toil! However, he
evened up matters by booking the hour as
overtime.
"Chevron”: At last a question has been
asked in the ALL. House of Reps, touching
upon “the persistent and ineradicable dis-
content of the Expeditionary Forces with
the General Officer Commanding.” It is
asserted that all ranks chafe under General
Godley, and the Defence Alinister is asked
to urge that the Alaorilanders be reunited
with “Birdy's” command, and Godley
shifted to some other sphere. If you want
to know the more immediate reasons why
Godley isn’t popular, ask some of the men
who were under him on the Peninsula. It
is significant that the member who brought
him under the House’s notice is C. J. Parr.
.Mayor of Auckland, who visited the
Flanders and French Fronts with the Parlia-
mentary delegates. Godley, who is the son
of a British colonel, is a “Kitchener man,”
with a fierce regard for military etiquette;
but the most serious complaint is that lie
has a large capacity for seeiug a British
officer in preference to one of his own men
when a promotion has to be made. Still,
allegations of this sort are made nowadays
against “Birdy,” too ; and they ought to be
carefully examined before they are swal-
lowed. One has to remember that a few
score officers who have been sent back from
the Front as incapables have not only not
been muzzled, but have been given jobs which
mislead the public into the belief that they
are under no cloud and have no grievance.
“Captain”: “Trooper BluegumV Anzac
(B. 9/8/’l7), who plaintively asked, while
digging in under fire: "Oh, why did I cut
my nails this morning?” reminds me of
another prostrate Billjim who, minus all
his equipment, and lying under a sleeting
hail of lead, suddenly whipped out his top
plate of artificial teeth and started scooping
with the sharp back edge. -Any man with
bought teeth who doubts me and isn’t sport
enough to risk his own fangs experimenting,
should get a small round tin cover anti see
what an improvement that is on bare claws.
The “Alelbourne Sportsmen’s Thousand"
have a recruiting depot, and into it the other
day lumbered six-foot-six of Gippsland tim-
ber-cutter, with a fine out-in-all-weathers ap-
pearance. Accompanying him was a slip of
a girl, hardly husband-high, a long-haired
sheepdog, a red bandanna, two portmanteaux
and a cardboard liatbox. “We’ve come,”
said Gippsland. “I want us to be hitched up
before I go into the Sportsman’s Thousand.
Aly mate is at Broadmeadows, and he sez
yous blokes can put us through.” He was
promptly told how, when and where to be
wed, and, after absorbing a brief discourse
on the beauties of matrimony, Gippsland
and his girl, he went out with the dog and
the lady in search of a sky-pilot.
* •* * *
“Pip Tok” : The two “d’s” attached to the
Anzac Provost Corps in London say that, as
a rule, men known as “crooks” in Australia
have, after enlistment, played the game, the
bulk of the few serious crimes being com-
mitted by men without police records at
home. The most ingenious offender is the
hardened absentee, and the most flourishing
snide industries are the preparation of faked
1 »asses, traffic in rubber stamps and printed
forms, and transactions in acids for the re-
moval of dates. There was an Adelaide pri-
vate who took a suite at a Kensington hotel
as Lord Ellery Alowbray, and carried on
business with the aid of “Her Ladyship.”
There was also a fake officer who actually
arrested two absentees, and was only bowled
out because he got sprung at a Trocadero
lunch to which he had invited a provost-
corps officer. A Sydney soldier, who acquired
an A.AI.C. officer’s uniform, had his own
ideas about having a good time. Imposing
on the “heads” he obtained the entree to
hospitals in order to witness operations.
When lumbered, he had his revenge: he took
the temperature of his mates in the clink
and submitted a fierce report on the sanita-
tion.
Sydney Prof. Anderson Stuart throws
light on the experiments to combat venereal
disease in military camps:—
What is called a prophylactic or preventive tent
is established at the entrance of each camp. Cer-
tain measures are there taken, as men who have
exposed themselves to infection return to their
quarters, with the - result that of a certain series of
2000 cases reported upon, only three developed the
diseases, while in another series in the first month
TWO OF A KIND.
FIRST PANTO GIRL: “Who is the johnny
waiting outside?”
SECOND DITTO: “Oh. that’s the Principal
Boy's principal boy.”
after the system had been established, of 432 men
who were attended to in the tent not one developed
the disease, while of 35 men who developed the
disease not one had visited the tent.
Mr. Stiggins is understood to be terribly
concerned about this “encouragement of
vice” ; but Mr. Stiggins’s lacerated feelings
are not half so important just notv as Air.
Billjim’s continued ability to stand up and
give Fritz another to go on with.
THE COMFORTER.
“Oh. yes! I can see a Jot better with them on. But they make one look so ugly.”
“Oh. no, dear! You just see better—that's all."
“The Chauffeur”: He came clamoring at
the door of the garage at about one o’clock
in the morning. He wanted a taxi; he
wanted it in three seconds or less. It was
a matter of life and death. I have never
seen even a little man so excited. He had
run half a mile, and was white and breath-
less. He danced with anguish while I was
getting the car out. Then he scrambled in.
and yelled the address of a private hospital.
I shook her up, imagining the poor devil
had taken poison or something; but the
man inside was not satisfied —all the way
he clamored for more speed. Arrived at Dr.
B— —-’s hospital, he fell out of the taxi, and
dashing forward, swung himself on .the door-
bell. A nurse appeared. “Quick, Nurse, for
God’s sake!” he gasped. “It’s happening.”
“Very well, very well, Mr. said the
nurse. “Bring her in.” Then my man
dug his claws in his hair and literally
shrieked. And well he might, for it seems
it was a ease of baby due, and he had for-
gotten to go back to his lodgings, according
to arrangements, and bring the lady!
“Loco”: The friendly Bungaree (Vic.)
potato-grower who wiped his boots on the
G.-G.’s red carpet at Spencer-street railway
station (B. 9/8/T7) reminds me. It was
when, as Duke of A T ork, King George was
here opening the Federal Parliament and
doing other odd jobs. The Royal train was
coming from the Ballarat visit and was
already approaching. I was fireman on a
train occupying the main platform, and we
had to get out of the way. Everybody was
excited —self included. Right alongside our
engine was the carpet. I jumped from the
footplate to light a head lamp. Regaining
my place and looking down, I was horrified
to find my coal-grimed boots had left a trail
all across the sacred rag. Just then we got
the signal to go, and my life was saved. I
heard afterwards that the s.-m. saw the foot-
prints just in time to get them brushed off
and save the Empire.
“John Dishragge”: Our Mary Annabel
has a friend who has been driven to the ser-
vice of Drink by her missus's devotion to
“Days.” For a solid week after France's
Day, Mary Annabel’s friend was required
to keep going on bread and butter washed
down with tea. She has brothers of her own
at the Front, and might have stood the meat-
less week if she hadn’t known that her em-
ployer had plunged heavily on millinery to
go collecting in and had put the week’s sup-
ply of steak on her head. So Alary Annabel’s
friend gave notice and took a job in a
country pub, where she will get £3 a week,
tips and (she hopes) decent food. From
the starvation stories I hear, a domestic
rationing sefale is one of the possibilities of
the future.
“S.W.W.” (from the mud) : It’s rubbish
that “young George Patterson, a Melbourne
advertising agent,” tells The Bulletin :
The quantity, quality and variety of the menu
here in France are wonderful. The worst food I've
met with on active service was home in Australia.
We had (as it would be fair to expect)
better food in Australia, more of it and a
greater variety. Why, we wasted more there
than we are issued with here. Still, there’s
plenty of food and etceteras to be had, and
we won't starve while they pay us regularly.
That matter is of greater importance than
ever it was. Once the old folks at home —
and the young ones—kept us pretty well
supplied with odds and ends. Now we’re
lucky to get letters. But there’s one thing
we can’t buy. Socks. There’s nothing (bar
getting home) that we want so much.
STRIKE-TIME HUSBANDS.
DOT: “ Don’t you wish you were married to
a hoy with a motor-cart ”
TOT: "Yes, or to a bootmaker.”
A SONG OF HEAT AND FORCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Coal is ‘black.’ ” —Any paper.
Ci eat is the world ! Small men like ants run round it,
Boasting aloud their bank account and soul;
Yet half their triumph, as wise angels sound it,
Relates exclusively to lumps of coal.
Remove the mineral, and half mankind
Are weak as new-born calves and puppy-blnid.
Now coal is “black.” The solemn word is spoken
That makes it an unholy, evil thing.
Dead it must lie, its smokeless rest unbroken,
W hile turns the South to meet the moving Spring.
The tires are out; steam lacks its pusli and pull,
And manhood wears the motley of the fool.
Prometheus stole the fire of high Olympus
To cook the bacon of the race of man,
Nor deemed the growing years would stint and crimp
us
Of that which glorifies the frying-pan.
But coal is “black”—blaelc-out and dead and cold —•
And Zeus is weary and the world grows old.
Dear heart, if coal be black, the sun is shining,
The fire of wattle flames on bough and tree.
Shall we lack power and heat though some, combining,
Assault our dinner and assail our tea?
Nay, while one jumbuck in the pasture kicks,
For love’s sweet sake we still can gather sticks.
The little sparrow while the worm is gliding
Sees his sure breakfast every smiling morn.
Let me go forth and find my prey in hiding,
Hurl the swift dart or wind the hunter's 1 rn.
Let them all strike! While I have hands and feet
Love, like the sparrow, shall have things to oat.
Not worms, however. These I draw the line at.
To larger game my soul must still aspire.
No flicking tails of birds to cast pale brine at
Should lure me from the paths of my desire.
Some large, wild pumpkin would I tear apart
Or stab a bearded cabbage to the heart 1
Not all unfriended, love should mate with laughter,
While every wheel in rust forgot to turn.
Oay is the Spring. The Summer follows after.
If coal stays black, we still have dreams that burn.
And Nature who has made your lips so red
May fire the world with us when coal is dead.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI


SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE. NURSE FRANCES, V.A.D., writes of Clements Toivic.
The proprietors of one of the leading weekly newspapers, Wellington, N.Z., whose letter can be seen If necessary, writes
“Nurse Frances has just returned from the firing-line in France and used your Clements Tonic there. m sure er
testimony is of very great public value.” Nurse Frances herself writes; "1 shou d like to tell you how very
pleased lam with your Tonic as a nerve restorer. I have used it with very beneficial results. Several of cur
nurses in France have also proved its worth. I can highly recommend it to any one suffering from brain-,ag.
( Signed)
( di UAAi )
. . . ~ it ; c invaluable for Anaemia, Nerve Breakdown and Loss of Sleep.
Get Clements Tonic and get good health at the same t me. It .s .nvaluable lor An ,
Alt Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere. It does good because it is goou.
Clements Tonic Ztd., Rozelle, N.S.W. 1 "
“Jimmy”: Talk about luck ! As the Mel-
bourne Criminal Court heard the story, a
man, having had a row with his missus,
broke into a gunsmith’s and from a large
stock borrowed a revolver and a box of
cartridges. He then went to interview the
lady. When she found him standing over
her fully-armed she went down on her knees
and covered her face with her hands. Hubby
placed the muzzle against her forehead and
pulled the trigger. Click! Another woman
pluckily rushed up and struggled with the
man while the missus fled. The discouraged
gunman then went home. As soon as pos-
sible some police paid him a call. One John,
cautiously opening a window, was startled
by hearing two clicks. He looked up and
saw the man aiming point blank at him.
Click went the revolver again. The police
then poured into the house, survived two
more clicks, and wounded their man in the
arm. When they examined the gent.’s law-
abiding gun they found it was a seven-
chambered misfirer. Every cartridge bore
the dint caused by the hammer. And every
time it had been a misfire.
* * * *
“Reconcentrado”: Ready and resourceful
birds are the Vic. Recruiting Committee's
organisers—returned soldiers to a man.
They never go into the country to hold a
memorial service for some local Billjim who
has fallen but they follow It up with a
recruiting rally, and as often as not they
find someone to fill the blank file. One of
them, Sergeant W. 11. Fozard, was lately
struck by the furtiveness of two men in a
Shepparton audience who were wearing
returned-soldiers’ badges. He put a few
questions, found that they were masquerad-
ing, and, calling a constable, took them to
the rural clink. There they owned up, and
Fozard suggested that it wasn’t necessary
to impersonate Anzacs when they might bei
come the real thing. They agreed, where-
upon Fozard, who has been appointed a
J.P. for the purpose, administered the oath
of service. That’s two more in camp.
* * * *
“Tar Baby”: The adventures of Brer;
Rabbit’s overcoat. Its original wearer was
shot by John Halifax, gentleman—not the
hero of Mrs. Craik’s novel, but a real person
at South Sassafras (Vic.). The skin, with
others, was worked by
Mrs. Halifax into a
waistcoat for her son.
Sergeant J. Halifax, then
in Egypt. He went to
another Front, and it
helped to keep him warm
during a French winter.
One day most of the
company kit was blown
up in a mine explosion
behind the lines, the rab-
bit-skin vest going sky-
high. Fortunately its
owner was not inside.
Weeks later. Driver
Payne, of a transport
column, was digging in a
shell-crater, when he
found the garment. Upon
it was Mrs. Halifax’s
address, and he returned
it to her. It is now mounted as a
trophy in the Halifax home ; and the scent
of the eucalyptus oil with which it was
originally sprinkled clings to it still.
Thus the Argus, glooming over the strike
in N. S. Wales: —
In the event of the express being- stopped at
Albury it will return to Melbourne.
Otherwise, of course, the sft. Bin. \ ic. roll-
ing stock would rage through to Sydney as
usual over the 4ft. Bsin. permanent way.
Melbourne is having a deal in old bones.
The Victoria Market, where East and West
meet in the early morning to haggle over the
price of eallot and cabbage, ha_s long been
recognised as a disgrace to all parties, it
being a usual practice to stack fruit and
greenstuffs in the gutters for lack of space.
So the Government proposes to arrange for
the digging up of 10 acres of remains from
the original Melbourne Cemetery. These will
be concentrated in a Pioneers’ Patch of less
than two acres; and there .fter the flood of
Brussels sprouts and tomatoes will overflow
upon the ground once occupied by the rude
forefathers of the hamlet. Hutchinson,
Minister for Graveyards, is in charge of the
enabling Bill.
“Trooper Bluegum” : The Australian can
turn his hand to anything. In a recent
demolition “stunt” on the Beersheba-el-
Arija line the Imperial Camel Corps did a
wonderful night march, blew up the
railway line and bridges, and then
trekked for home. All went well
save that the British aeroplane,
landing on rough ground, twisted
the axle and other gear. The avi-
ator said he could only repair the
damage if he had a forge, tools and
artificer, and a few hours to do
it in; so, none of these things
being available, it looked
as if the ’bus would
have to be destroyed.
Then three Billjims
loped up and reckoned
they could patch her up.
They took the under-car-
riage off, made a fire
from railway sleepers,
used portions of the de-
molished rails as ham-
mers, and fixed up the
bird with a liberal sup-
ply of telegraph wire.
The trained mechanic
was astounded when the
machine took the air and
Hew straight back to
Rafa. The three Bill-
jims didn't think they
had done anything worth
mentioning, and won-
dered what the Flight-Commandant made all
the fuss about afterwards.
“Centurion”: The most devilish of all the
dodges of the gentle Hun —if any are worse
than the others —is the employment of a new
gas which is popularly called cyosine, and is
usually conveyed in shells. It is invisible,
and the only trace of its presence is a faint
odor of violets which passes swiftly. No ill-
effects are noticeable for some time —in ma ny
cases for 24 hours. Men go about the usual
routine in the trenches and nothing happens
until a little extra exertion is called for—
lifting a case of beef, climbing up on a
parapet, or starting on a brisk march back
to billets. Then, without warning, the gassed
man collapses and dies before he hits the
ground. Cause of death obscure; but it
appears to be some mysterious “deferred
action” on heart muscles.
THE FLY SEASON.
THE CYNICAL YOUNG MAN: “Huh! This
time of the year girls arc just like in-
sects the way they come out at night.”
THE UNSQUASHABLE YOUNG WOMAN: "Yes,
and men are just like flypaper the way
they arc littered round to catch them.”
“Melb”: Wo provide plenty of diversion
now for street loafers in Melbourne. First
there’s the horse-drawn grand organ, giving
off operatic strains. A corporation by-law
against advertising vans is suspended for
the patriotic and so forth. Therefore another
horse drags along a St. Vincent’s (supposed)
patient in bed, with nurse attending. This
is to secure £5OOO, whereupon another
£5OOO is to come from Jack Wren. A third
horse pulls a complete kitchen, value £5O,
to be got for a shilling. Yet another horse
tugs along the model of a fine house, to be
had at the same price. Then we have the
TOO HOT.
"And you used to say you’d go through Hell
for me!”
"Oh, I’d do that! But you’re putting me
through the Bankruptcy Court.”
circus procession of two dozen ladies riding
astride, and leading saddle horses for re-
cruits. A dismal failure this. Also there’s
the decorated raltle-pony led about by ladies.
More ladies lead the other pony which
mutely appeals for the Purple Cross. An-
other patriotic outfit consists of two young
horsewomen and a man, the ladies dressed,
1 believe, to represent Dick Turpin and Tom
King. There’s a danger of the thing being
overdone.
“Machete's” old friends :
Like a breath of old times to read “Vagabond”
(B. 12/7/’l7) on regimental nicknames in Africa.
I am in complete agreement with him in telling off
the R.A.M.C. as the Rob All My Comrades. Appar-
ently that is going to stick, too. We didn’t call
the pampered City of London Volunteers “Can 1
Ventures,” but “Cows in Velvet.” Brabant’s Horse,
beside carrying the proud title of “Burn the House,”
were known as the “Forty Thieves.” “Vag.” has
overlooked the famous Imperial Yeomanry, who were
known throughout Africa as the “I’m Yours,” be-
cause of their constitutional incapacity to avoid
being rounded up by a ribald and unwashed enemy
wherever and whenever the latter chose. One particu-
lar regiment of this corps arrived under the
glorious style of “The D.C.O.’s” —Duke of
Cambridge’s Own. Every trooper had given
his pay to the patriotic funds, bought his
uniform, equipment and horse, and caused it to be
known that he was, at least, a University man and
the seventeenth son of a peer, while the officers
ranked themselves among the cherubim. A few
days after they took the field De Wet gathered the
whole gilded mob in at Lindley and even the ranks
of Tuscany—meaning the I.Y. —scarce forebore to
cheer. The chuckling De Wet took off most of
their beautiful clothes and sent them over Van
Rienen’s Pass into Natal in midwinter, to be suc-
cored and clothed by ribald brethren in arms.
Thenceforth they were glad to wear common clothes
and ride ordinary Argentine plugs, while their mana
became great as “De Wet’s Own.”
This war has cloven the Quakers as with
a sword. While 118 of them are in English
prisons for refusing to recognise militarism
in any shape or form, 500 are serving in the
Army and Navy and 1000 are doing ambu-
lance or relief work in the fighting zones.
Cocoa Cadbury* whose son has won the Vic-
toria Cross in the lioyal Flying Corps, is
one of those who do not subscribe to the
traditional creed of Quakerism. “Our sym-
pathies.” he said, “are wide enough to in-
clude the brethren fighting in the ranks.”
And the annual meeting of the sect in Con-
don skilfully straddled the rail by deciding
to send a “letter of communion and approval
to our brothers in prison, while not with-
holding sympathy from those who are serv-
ing their country in other ways.”
* * * *
“Masetto”: Is the Defence Department
manned by dead men? The parents of a
young Melbourne soldier who enlisted in
1915 still receive imperative notices
addressed to the absent soldier to attend
drill. His apparent indifference to these
summonses lately caused the Head to send
a final warning that further absence would
be considered desertion, and prosecution
would follow. As the solemn threat came
in an official envelope, the parents, having-
been recently advised that their son had
been wounded, had a few seconds of dreadful
suspense, feeling sure it contained news of
his death. The boy’s father has written and
explained the facts to the area-officer on
several occasions. But that doesn’t dis-
courage him.
“War Hawk” swoops into the controversy
about the reformation of Victorian art: —
“Jean S.” (B. 9/8/' 17) tells the tale ot one side,
and tells it wrong - . That the boot should be put
into the many potboilers sent in, the dissatisfied ones
are quite agreed; what they object to is that good art
was kicked out of the last exhibition, while tripe and
experimental failures of a particular brand were given
wall space. They hold that tripe imitative of the
favored gloomy style is no better than any other
kind of tripe.
Among these presumptuous outcasts, these impor-
tunate “amateurs” and lovers of light, is one whose
work has long and deservedly held a place in the
National Gallery, and whose later works are no less
meritorious than their earlier brothers. But what
does that matter to the cultivators of the Drab ?
The fine, earnest work of this artist’s maturity
must not hang upon the walls of the Victorian
Artists’ Society’s gallery because “it is obviously
a studio picture, and might set a bad example to
students”! Just a school for students; and us
thinking all the time it was an exhibition to give
the world an opportunity to gaze upon Victorian
art! (As a matter of fact, two-thirds of the time
occupied in painting that particular picture—some
24 months —was passed in the open air.) We now
know that, no matter what its quality, a picture
painted indoors, unless it represent an interior, is
HIS GOOD KAMI! AT STAKE.
HE: “By Jove, I'Ve a flood mind to kiss
you!"
SHE: “ Indeed , and what about my reputa-
tion?"
HE: “Oh, that's all right—I don't mind
what people think of me."
condemned from its inception. Never mind about
Turner and Corot and the other nonentities in art
who worked up their pictures in the studio!
Did Frank Biangwyn hold the reins of the world
of art and say dogmatically: “Mine only is the
true art!” how far down the ladder do you think
we would find, say, Alma Taderna? And if Holman
Hunt’s art was deemed to be the only true art, would
l'izarro have ever had a picture hung? It seems
to me that the present great need of the Victorian
Artists’ Society is simply more breadth of mind
in the council.
A DIRGE OF AUGUST LAUGHTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun looked out along the roofs with laughter,
V merry sun that dimpliug August bred.
Uoronia-scented airs were pulsing after
The long procession that the big drum led.
The slow trams trailed along the crowded street
Dusted with shuffles of ten thousand feet.
O'er Flanders’ mud red flame the landscape lighted,
A ceaseless thunder shook the peoples’ hearts.
Where truth from horror’s triumph fled affrighted,
And death and courage played their heavy parts.
And like vast monsters of the primal flood
The slow tanks crawled along a path of blood.
The August breeze that moves the evening paper
Blows hot and cold where black the headlines
stare;
And sorry strike and -furious battle caper
Against each other in that heedless air—
Tank against tram and union against gun,
They flap beneath the laughter of the sun.
Laugh! For this world of ours is grim for laugh-
ter —
Boronia and Wilhelm, life and death !
’the Devil dances and the Spring runs after
To drown a whiff of Hell in wattle breath.
The madness grows; but, pausing to explain,
I’d miss that painful, packed and only train!
x.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
THE STRIKE TRAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
But yesterday I hungered when you went
Along the carriage-way; the lilac scent
As you passed to your seat
Glowed to my heart. Your springing feet
Inspired—well, pagan thought
And honeyed dreams that ne’er will come again
Since last night when we sardincd on the train.
x.s.w.
BILLY B.


SPEAKING OF TIME CARDS


A FRIGHTFUL MISTAKE SOMEWHERE.
“Huge and enthusiastic crowds witnessed the march of American troops through London.”— Cable.
THE KAISER (wildly): “This is all wrong, I tell you! I-I was to do this inarch!"


/
VW
The
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows,
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
LEWIS &
whim
MAKERS*
£
m
wm
JUS*
XV
■ n
mi
mm
i.
smi
Missing Friends.
| F. JAMES STUART ROBERTSON, formerly of St.
Hilda, Victoria, will communicate with
LLOYD’S NEXT OF KIN & UNCLAIMED MONEY
OFFICES, SO Swan "ton Street. Melbourne,
lie will hear of something to his advantage.
JOSEPH TEARE. known as “Jos,” son
of Joseph and Margaret Teare, last
heard of in Collie, West Australia, employed
as Government Ilorse Boss, and afterwards
as a groom, worked about Worsley. Present
address required or proof of his death (if
dead). Something to his advantage ou
application to
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO. LTD.,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne. Victoria.
LX the Estate of CHARLES EDWARD
MOSS or GEORGE AMOS, late ot
Sydney, deceased.
MILLIE MOSS, the widow of the above-
mentioned. or anyone knowing her where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with
tlie undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers.
Castlereagli Street. Sydney.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melachrino
Cigarettes
E. J. KAVANAGH , M.L.C., secretary of Syd-
ney Labor Council, arrested with Willis
and, Claude Thompson in connection 'with
the strike.
The father of the just-dead E. G. V. Brough-
ton, ex-M.L.A. in N. S. Wales, was Delves
Broughton, a member of the first Queens-
land Parliament (1859), and afterwards
P.M. in that State. His mother was Clern-
ence, a daughter of Dr. C. L. D. Fattoriui,
who practised medicine in Sydney away in
the thirties of last century. A grandfather was
a reverend baronet who was the patron of
five livings; the baronetcy was created in
1660. But the Sydney land auctioneer
could follow the family back much farther
than that. It settled in Staffordshire in the
time of Henry VI.; and Thomas Broughton,
father of the first baronet, was fined £3200
by tlie sequestrators for his loyalty to
Charles the Beheaded.
Just deceased Robert Scobie, M.L.A. for
the Murray (N.S.W.), was probably the
best stonewaller in Australian politics. True,
the noisy Webster, M.H.R., holds the record,
but he belongs to that mouthing type of
talker who, after lie lias held forth three or
four hours, pains his hearers by conveying
the impression that every second word tears
something. Scobie was different. With a
DISCRETION.
SHE: “It's all nonsense to say that women
can't keep secrets!"
HE: “Of course it is. Why. my wife and I
were engaged for quite a long time
before she said a word even to ME about
it.”
rich accent acquired in Glasky and an imag-
ination bred in the spacious West o’ Darling,
bis words came easily from his lips. Once
when the Wade crowd was in power he
nearly broke it up. Taking the floor just
after the tea interval lie walked round his
subject, turned it over, respread it, asked
himself questions, answered himself from
several standpoints and then , at about mid-
night said: “Mr. Speaker, after these few
preliminary remarks, I propose to address
m’self to the question.”
Died last week, John Haynes, pressman
and politician. John had a large capacity
for many things, but not for hanging on. He
was in and out of Parliament, and liis news-
paper life was much the same, His biggest
chance came when, with J. F, Archibald, he
founded The Bulletin. Archibald in liis
memoirs told how they started without any
money at all except tlie few pounds lie him-
self had brought down from Queens-
land, and without plant. Haynes didn’t
hang on long. Selling out 33 years
ago, he turned to politics and sat for Mud-
gee from 1887 onwards for 17 years, mostly
ns an audacious freelance. And it was as a
freelance that he subsequently won the Wil-
loughby seat. But his position there was
untenable, and for a year or two past lie had
been out of politics, busying himself mainlv
with the Newsletter, which he founded
some years ago. He was 67 at the end.
Seraphim Phocas, who passed out lately
at Sydney, aged 78, was the first priest of
the Greek Ghurch to be stationed in Aus-
tralia. Before his time the Greeks in this
country were left to Anglican attention,
with a rare visit from one of their own
pilots. As some of the Anglican clergy,
especially in Sydney, were not sympathetic,
the staka-da-oyst community petitioned the
Patriarch of Constantinople for a resident
priest, and Phocas was sent out 20-odd
years ago, with all Australia as his parish.
He soon built tlie church of Hagia
Trias (Holy Trinity) rs Bourke-street. Syd-
ney. and decorated it with wall paintings by
liis own hand, for he was an artist as well
as a theologian. As a young man lie was a
schoolmaster in Crete, where Veuizelos, the
present Greek Premier, was one of liis
pupils. Later, before coming to Australia,
he worked as a priest in Jerusalem and Port
Said. lie retired about seven years ago, but
liis picturesque figure, with flowing, snowy
beard and hair, long black gown, brimless
top liat and umbrella, was familiar in Syd-
ney streets till the last few days. Of course,
lie was connected with the national indus-
try; his daughter is married to one of the
Stamell brothers, who run a fish and oyster
palace somewhere in Sydney.
.Copley Horne, who helped A. P. Stewart
hatch out the A.P..G. phoenix from the ashes
of the old A.J.S. Bank, died a few days
ago. The son of that Wegg Horne who was
in the O’Shanassy .Ministries of Victoria* in
the ’so’s, lie joined the old A..T.S. Bank in
the days when it was doing the thing pro-
perly, and stuck to it when his job as Chief
Inspector consisted mostly of squeezing
down overdrafts and finding excuses for not
giving a hard-up but valuable officer a
begged-for rise of half a c-rown a week.
After tlie old mess had been cleaned up and
a new bank firmly planted, Horne retired:
Died recently, aged 83, J. B. W. Wool-
nougli, M.A., one of the oldest of Tassy’s
Anglican parsons and son of a naval officer
who fought at Trafalgar. For a time lie
represented the now defunct electoral dis-
trict of Sorell in the Assembly, and was
prone to wipe the floor with friend and foe
impartially. After retiring from public life
he settled at Port Arthur. He possessed one
of the most valuable and interesting collec-
tions of antiques, carved furniture and flue
china in Australia; and it was the merest
chance that tlie lot did not go up iu smoke
during the bush fire that burnt out the dere-
lict settlement a couple of decades ago.
H.M.S. Curacoa happened to be in tlie
vicinity, and the crew helped to salvage the
valuable collection. A lot of the furniture
was made in the last days of the French
monarchy. A sofa that, had belonged to the
Empress Josephine was, with other pieces,
stored at Port Arthur during Woolnough’s
absence, and an enterprising caretaker ex-
hibited it to trippers at 12d. a head as the
work of Y.D.L. convicts. The trippers sig-
nified their approbation in the usual manner
by knocking off salients as keepsakes.
Talk about bard mozzle ! Trooper Doran,
of the Light Horse from Westralia, was one
of the first to hurry to hostilities. He was,
also, the first man in the regiment wounded,
for he got a bit of shrapnel while on the
boat just before landing on Gallipoli. After
wading ashore he stopped some more lead.
When he recovered he returned to the regi-
ment and saw the show through to the
evacuation. After that he fought at Romani
and in all the desert skirmishes to the battle
of Gaza. Then he went into the local field
hospital with nothing much —sores on his
hands. And here arrived the rotten luck. A
taube flew over, bombed the hospital and
killed him!
FITZPATRICK Assistant
Treasurer in N. S. Wales
State Government.
J. I’. Eckersall. clerk to Snowball and
Kauffmimn, solicitors, Melbourne, retired at
the end of last month after spending 54 of
his 80 years of life iu the one office. Born
in ’37 at Manchester he arrived in Mel-
bourne in ’54, and the same year entered the
office of Jennings and Coote, solicitors, as
office rouseabout. In ’63 he left that firm
and went into the office of Blundell and
Ilurrey. He never changed liis job again.
Partners came and went, but 'the clerk
stayed on. Blundell subsequently founded
the firm of Malleson, England and Stewart,
which gradually became Snowball and
Kauffmann. Eckersall’s retirement brings
into the limelight Boyle Patev, who, not-
withstanding his SO years, still goes into
town every day and makes up hills of costs.
The death of hig-lramed. big-hearted, big-
voiced Bob Scobie. M.L.A. for the Murray
(N.S.W.), is the seventh among the ranks
1910* Labor partv ' vllicl > swept the polls iu
“The Major” straightens the line-—.
“F. 0.,” writing about General Bethune c
lately as the successor of Gov. Strickland i n Y, Ppe /
Wales, confuses that warrior with Beatson ' 5
commanded a column composed nriiieii.-.n. 0
sth Victoria.. -Mounted Rifles during
war in 1901. Beatson was a colonel in the W "
Army and failed to differentiate between the l "
native and the free and easy Australian, n G
love was lost between, on tlie one side hf^ 6 n °
i min and
R. FLACK RIVARDS , Ton. Government
Architect.
liis brigade-major, Waterfield—-more Beatsonesque than
Beat-son- —and, on the other, the Vies. From the
outset Beatson’s lot attracted the attention of Com-
mandant Viljoen ; and with a view to collaring the
latter’s commando Beatson divided his force. The
main body camped at Middelkraal, and the left wine
(four squadrons of the V.M.R. and a couple of pom-
poms) bivouacked a few miles away at Spilniansrust.
This little force \va- commanded by .Major Morris,
Royal Field Artillery, and he was responsible for
the faulty disposition of outposts which contributed
to the success of the burghers’ night attack. By the
way, Maygar, V.C., was not one of the kraal party,
as “F. 0.” says. Sydney Coulter, one of the gallant
Ballarat family, was in charge of that little post.
Tie got out with a whole skin, but was subsequently
killed.
John Lethbridge King, the oldest living
member of a First Fleet family—Lieut,
rhilip Gidley King came in the Sirius-
retired from the N. S. Wales stipendiary
bench last week after 47 years’ service.
From an old gallery hand:—
It is always dangerous to prophesy about the future
of a politician on the evidence of maiden speeches.
The greatest Parliamentarian this writer has known
started as a dull bore. Yet when the practised
speaking man begins that way it is 100 to 1 against
him ever getting any better. Such a one is PercivaV
Brookfield, whose name has been mentioned by the
newspapers lately as often as Australia. Put Brook
field on a street corner and he will hit the very
sky with hot air. In Parliament, pinned down, he is
ns pathetic a spectacle as a wounded aeroplane. He
addressed the Assembly the other night on the strike.
It' the galleries had been big enough to accommodate
the striking thousands there would have been a rush
back .to work in the morning. Brookfield had
nothing to say and struggled haltingly along, pro-
claiming liis futility with every phrase. ITc may
become coherent in time, but if he now has a single
idea in liis head except such as may arise from the
very old and respectable human impulse to upend
things in general, lie doesn’t give a hint of it.
At the. next A’ic. State elections the
I’.L.C. means to run Tibbies against
Toutcher for Stawell and Ararat. Toutcher
is a Melbourne auctioneer; Tibbies —Bill
Tibbies —harvests whiskers at Ararat, and
has been nibbling around the political cheese
for years.
THE DEAD LIMIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chapter XIT of the revelations that are being
made by Mr. J. W. Gerard, formerly American Am-
bassador at Berlin, describes an interview with the
Kaiser on May 1, 1916, in which tlie Kaiser dis-
cussed the blockade of Germany,-and expressed his
intentions, if it became too drastic. “Rather than
allow my family and grandchildren to starve,” he
said, “I would blow up Windsor Castle and the
whole Royal family of England.”
O Kaiser William, this is more
Than one expects of you !
We knew that when you went to war
Mankind your wrath would rue;
Your will to kill you then declared,
And hade the slay-bells ring;
licit, Kaiser, we were not prepared
To think you’d kill a King!
Destruction of the common herds
We knew to he your aim;
We always gathered from your words
That slaughter was your game.
To royal faith in Right Divine
We thought, you still would cling.
And never in your rage design
To kill a cousin King.
Mere soldiers fall like forest trees,
Trunks, branches, aye and twigs;
Their corpses, sent to factories,
Make fats and food for pigs;
Their death delights the German gods,
And German angels sing—
But, surely, it’s above the odds
For King to kill a King!
Let all your demons of tlie air
Rain death on English earth.
Yet hid them have a kindly care
For folks of royal birth.
You have the Right Divine to do—
Well, any blessed thing,
To serve your righteous end in view,
Except to kill a King.
Romb-fodder of the vulgar sort
Was meant to be consumed;
E'en minor toft's, adored at Court,
To die in war are doomed;
But wliat you said a year ago
(Old Time is on the wing)
Must never he. Or friend or foe,
You must not kill a King.
Lay this injunction to thy soul,
Or grave it on thy heart,
The while the gory seasons roll
And bomb-shells play their part:
Though delicacies sweet to eat
Thy servants cease to bring;
Though Hunland meet with dire defeat
And Hunger weave thy winding-sheet,
’Twere wrong-to kill a King!
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


tZmm '
9i
iMMt
# • ** m
.
«; •-*
.
- -
•: •''••••
-, • . ;;■
. '■ ■■
v • ~, MiiiTiTifiii'n'f
: „ "-X
--
*
* --
■<K.,..
.
•♦•V
■?-
*Bl .. ..»•• '>•
■*...
;
* . ~
-
ffi \:
■<r.
**
*r.
*jp*
VJ.i
Sps
11
.*»*
•:<••••
•x-, ;
mm
*>»■
V-
-1
->•:
PJglfeji
i.
•• .
-
■
*
* >
v
::
.
Ss, ->®
1
as
fc ,
.
« %&
.m
V, «a«
*:
MP.
. .
~.
«
>*«
•V
■X»,
HOW I HOOKED HIM 1
CHAMPION TOBACCO
Every experienced fisherman Knows that BEST TOBACCO is as necessary to
His enjoyment as it is to Have the BEST BAIT.
He must Have the Hest o/ each, so we find Him smoking CHAMPION eitHer
FLARE-CUT, MIXTURE, or the FINE-CUT for rolling His own cigarettes,
or perhaps CHAMPION PLUG in bright or dark.
FisH or No Fish,
Champion Tobacco Never Disappoints a Fisherman
>.-■5 •:
- *
fsi
-a*.
‘ '•••?.
* c, 4
11 '■
ill.:
La
%
3
I.
P %
?■
H ■
m
:
;r«»-
mm
m
V., -.
■* • v
■ ■
i *
m
’ .
. .
i '
: ■ ill
x...
MtmK . • ?■: i. ; :
tW,
I!
C *v
: '•! M
% .
:
■> \r.
s-i;.
•v'- :•:•■•.:• ■•••:.:-
:x ;
H
ii
i
a
x-,
HOW 1 GOT HIM!


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-t) Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 02 Brookman's Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Read
Antinionial Read
Assay Read (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAS
Dead Drosses, ete.
Brand,— a
all inquiries to be addressed to the secretary.
“"L™,-! J!?® fi" ® TH AT resists the elements
Slates are easily broken—come off, and like
Iron will rust—it sweats, pinholes and eventually rots
iron are very costly. eventually lots.
... “A.DAMA.X** ASPHAI tttm
neither rots, rusts nor sweats. It is eisiU- ,
WIIJJAM ADAMS * CO. liTf)., 175°Clarenc ! e°Street, SYDNEY.
roofing
only about one-third
of Galvanised
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Pnii c p;n *
f „ LCCI Kails, billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pio- i ron c n i nhafa
’ ron » sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES'
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE— Equitable Building. Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
.Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney
and Melbourne, who started with a deficit of
£46,235, representing goodwill (£45,000)
and preliminary expenses:—
Towards
Reduction
Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
Juno, 1910. .£6,038 10 p.c. = £4500 £1538 £36,278
Dec., 1910.. 8,076 10 „ „ 4500 3576 32,702
June, 1911.. 7,669 10 .. „ 4500 3109 29,533
Dec., 1911.. 5,520 10 „ ~ 4500 1020 28,513
June, 1912.. 7,159 10 ~ 4600 2559 25,954
Dec., 1912.. 9.308 10 .. „ 4700 4608 21,346
June, 1913.. 9,027 10 „ ~ 4850 4177 17,169
Dec., 1913.. 9,412 1(1 .. „ 5000 4412 12,757
June, 1914.. 10,529 10 „ „ 5000 5529 7,228
Dec., 1914.. 11,453 10 ~ „ 5000 6453 775
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1915.. 8,080 10 „ „ 5208 3472 2,697
Dec., 1915.. 8,454 10 „ „ 5312 3142 5,839
June, 1916.. 9,524 10 „ „ 5312 4212 10,051
Dec., 1916.. 10,140 10 „ 5312 4828 14,879
June, 1917.. 8,158 10 „ „ 5312 2846 17,725
So, in the 8| years since this co. was
started, it has made £63,060 of profit in ex-
cess of the dividend ; and 4000 shares were
issued in payment for W. T. Way’s business
in 1912 at a premium of £l4OO, that amount
being used to write down assets. In effect,
therefore, a surplus profit of £05.360 has
been made. The result is all the finer when
it is remembered that, (1) apart from
goodwill, the average capital in the business
lias been only about £45,000; (2) a 10 p.c.
div. has been maintained throughout, and
(3) a considerable sum has been spent in
extending the business to Melbourne. The
past half-year shows slightly diminished
profit owing, it is explained, to “the high
price of commodities and the increase in
wages and other expenses”; nevertheless
there is a comfortable margin equal to very
nearly 5 p.c. of the capital.
The present figures don't look so attrac-
tive if you go back five years and note that
the profit then was about equal to what it
is now. notwithstanding that meantime
(say) £15,000 of new capital has been got
in and £38.000 of profit has been accumu-
lated. Profit-earning has been affected by
increased exes.: in 1912 salaries, rents,
rates, taxes, repairs and maintenance and
such items took only 85.2 p.e. of the gross
profits as against 90.9 p.c. now. But, though
the profit-earning position isn't as good, the
co. has been considerably strengthened in
other respects:—
1912. 1917.
Capital £94,000 £110,957
All liabilities . . .. 22,787 50,967
Freeholds 20,320 70,000
Leaseholds .. . . 24,750 19,100
Furniture, plant, etc. . . 37,460 57,170
Stock, cash, etc 12,903 38,692
Though capital and liabilities have been in-
creased by £45,137,' freeholds, stock and
cash and other liquid assets have been in-
creased by £75,469; and that is apart from
the additions made to furniture, plant, etc.
This paper isn't prepared to say that even
now the investment is gilt-edged. Apart
from furniture, plant and leaseholds, which
are all items of more or less uncertain
value on liquidation, the co. has only
£108.692 of assets, while it has £50.967 of
liabilities. But, as shown above, it is grad-
ually making its position more solid; and
no doubt it will go on doing it while the
management is what it is to-day—will even
go on doing it when trade conditions gener-
ally are bad. because the co. lays itself out
to supply people with things of the sort
they will only cut out after they have cut
out almost everything else.
* * * *
The Public Trust Office of N. S.
Wales :
June, Income. Outgoings. Profit. Reserves.
1914.. £3,175 £2,983 £192 £192
1915.. 7,748 7,017 731 923
1916.. 9,515 9,122 393 1316
1917.. 11,221 10,550 671 1987
The Act of 1913 “to constitute a public
trustee” and for other purposes said :
• There shall be charged in respect of the duties of
the public trustee such fees as shall be fixed by
regulations hereunder.
The fees shall be arranged from time to time so
as to produce an annual amount incidental to the
working of this Act (including such sum as the
( ilonial Treasurer may from time to time deter-
mine to be required to insure the Consolidated
Revenue Fund against loss under this Act) and no
more.
So, though 1 a good deal of discretion is
a Bowed, it will be against the spirit of the
Act if any Treasurer seeks to turn this
office into a profit-making concern. The
most he can reasonably require is the
accumulation of a reserve fund against the
liability established by section 37: —
The Consolidated Revenue Fund shall be liable to
make good ail sums required to discharge any lia-
bility which the public trustee if he were a private
trustee would be personally liable to discharge,
except where the liability is one to which neither
the public trustee nor any of his officers has in any
way contributed and which neither he nor any of his_
officers could, by the exercise of reasonable diligence,'
have averted.
What ought to be a proper reserve against
that liability is a matter on which no two
people are likely to agree precisely. But
this can be said: the existence of a sub-
stantial insurance fund, out of which claims
on account of errors can be paid, is likely
to solidify public confidence in the office.
So the office has something else to aim at
besides the immediate reduction of charges.
It wants a reasonable reserve or insurance
fund: with that it will command more
trusts; and the larger the turnover —pro-
vided the pace is not forced —the better
the terms it should be able to offer to
clients. Rapid progress is not to be ex-
pected. The office has to wear down preju-
dices which have a habit of growing stronger
with a man’s possessions. Nevertheless
experience in Britain and Maoriland shows
that a public trust office, with the
State guaranteeing its fidelity, makes a
strong appeal to large numbers of people
who don’t generally give their benediction
to State enterprises.
And though a public office doesn’t start
off with some of the immediate advantages
of a private office, which is usually formed
by people who have trusts to transfer, or
who can put other profit-earning work into
the co.’s hands at once, the figures show very
striking progress. The balances to credit
of estates have moved like this: —1914,
£359,498; 1915, £599,255; 1916. £543,301;
1917, £1,153,659. Twelve months ago the
trustee was able to say that his office ob-
tained grants of administration, etc., in at
least one-fourth of all those made by the
Probate Court in N. S. Wales; and the
figures showing estates now in hand suggest
that an even larger proportion has been
reached.
The profit, so far as accumulations for an
insurance fund can be called profit, has been
hitherto paid to the Consolidated Revenue;
and presumably the same has been done with
the past year’s little £671. That ought to be
altered. The office should hold its own re-
serve fund. That, this paper believes,
would be much more acceptable to clients
and possible clients. If the office commits
a fault for which it is in doubt whether it
is liable, it will be much more likely to give
the estate the benefit of the doubt if it has
command of the insurance or contingency
fund and doesn’t have to go to the Consoli-
dated Revenue. At any rate, that will be
the public view of it. •
*.* * *
The Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Bris-
bane) :
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1905.. £2,307 Nil £l,OOO £5,528
1906.. 800 Nil 5,528 800
1907.. 1,747 21 p.c. = £535 1,012 1,000
190 S. . 2,764 5 „ „ 1331 1,433 1,000
1909.. 4,477 5i „ „ 1586 2,891 1,000
1910.. 6,585 6J ’„ „ 2248 4,337 1,000
1911.. 4,274 6 „ „ 2761 1,613 1,000
1912.. 11,305 71 „ „ 3459 2,846 6,000
1913.. 9.710 8 „ „ 4920 4,790 6,000
1914.. 15,405 9 „ „ 5535 3,870 12,000
1915.. 16,721 10 „ „ 6150 10,571 12,000
Reserve Funds capitalised, £9500. . 2,500
(Contingency Reserves—shown in table as written
off —capitalised, £19,389)
1916.. 11,055 9 p.c. = 6719 1,336 5,500
1917.. 10,623 8 „ „ 7605 1,618 6,900
Those amounts shown as written off in the
last couple of years are treated in that way
with some doubt. Once upon a time the co.
was in such a bad way that it got into the
habit of wheeling out any surplus profit it
had, and tipping it into a yawning chasm in
the back yard of its accounts; and after
other people got hold of the concern and the
tide turned, the habit was so firmly estab-
lished that the management went on doing
it. until three years ago it discovered that
there wasn’t a chasm any longer, but a pile.
That was when £19,389 was wheeled back
again and thrown on to the capital. Nowa-
days the old wheelbarrow is still used ; and
there is already an accumulation of £4560,
though the directors claim to have provided
otherwise for depreciation, bad debts and
two lots of etceteras.
_ The next comparison gives some further
hints of a rather remarkable recovery:—
1905. 1914. 1915. 1916. ' 1917
Capital . . £16,025 £60,000 £60,000 £88,889 £92,185
Liabilities 21,819 26,709 26,888 23.591 26!555
Land, plant &
properties 31.000 50,636 55,992 56,058 55,873
Stock .. 7,124 16,145 17,617 20,436 24,892
Book debts 5,826 32,347 38,870 35,646 40.183
Cash, etc... 417 7,630 30 29 27
Gross profits 14.022 41,907 48,645 45,989 45,939
Management 11,715 26,502 31,924 34,934 35,716
Apparently £3296 was got in during the
past year by the issue of 9890 new shares
at 6s. Sd; that makes 270,550 issued, all
■ fully paid to Os. Bd. Apparently the capi-
tal actually subscribed in the 12 years cov-
, ered by the last comparison is £47,271; and
as the co. shows nearly £25,000 more in
properties and plant, over £17,500 in stock
and nearly £35,000 in book debts, while its
liabilities have grown only £5OOO, it might
be excused if, after drawing its 8 p.c. divi-
dend, and noting that there is then left in
the till enough to comfortably pay another
3 p.c., it shouted itself a bottle of its own
very good beer.
Richardson and Wrencii, Ltd. (Syd-
ney ), property auctioneers, valuators, etc.: —
Deficit
(Goodwill
In not rec-
Writ- Reduc- koned
ten tion of an
Profits. Dividends. Otf. Deficit. Asset).
June,’o9. .£2762 5 p.c. =£lsoo £1262 £35,062
Dec.,’o9.. 3411 5 „ „ 1500 1911 33,151
June,TO.. 5060 6 „ „ 1800 3260 29,891
Dec., TO.. 4838 6 „ „ 1800 3038 26,853
June,Tl. . 5650 7 „ „ 2100 3550 23,303
Dec.,’ll.. 5696 7 „ „ 2100 3596 19,707
June, T 2. . 5612 7 „ „ 2100 3512 16,195
Dec., T 2.. 6737 7 „ „ 2100 4637 11,558
June, T 3. . 6240 7 „ „ 2100 3140 8,418
Dec., T 3.. 6784 7 „ „ 2100 4684 3,734
To Re-
Res. serves.
June, T 4.. 7031 7 „ „ 2100 4931 1,197
Dec., T 4.. 3756 7 „ „ 2100 1656 2,853
June, T 5.. 5871 7 „ „ 2100 £1352 2419 6.272
Dec., T 5.. 3904 7 ~ „ 2100 876 928 6,200
June,T6. . 3468 7 „ „ 2100 7568
Dec.,’l6. . 3649 7 ~ „ 2100 1549 1,549
June, T 7.. 2697 7 „ „ 2100 597 2,146
The day of the nice, fat, frequent commis-
sion is over once more. The harder the
N. S. Wales Government borrowed the more
prosperous the city seemed to be, and up
and up property values ran—and that, of
course, is when most people want to buy.
Now the community is left with (1) the
bill for the loans and the interest on them ;
(2) the bill for higher rents, calculated on
the boom values, and higher prices for goods
because the people who sell them have to
pay the higher rents. “The workers,” whose
special interests the Government was sup-
posed to be looking after, are mostly not
twopence better off. But various property
speculators have made fortunes, and 11. and
W. succeeded in earning 15 to 20 p.c. p.a.
for a few years on their capital by making
valuations and bringing off deals.
For many years this co. was hard at work
putting solid cash in the place of its “good-
will” asset; but when the job was nearly
completed it changed its policy and started to
make considerable advances on properties.
At present it has £40,084 thus disposed of.
besides £6481 in book debts. Apparently to
provide for risks in connection with these
advances and for other purposes a Contin-
gency Fund was created when the clouds
began to gather. In the foregoing table the
amounts transferred to this fund have been
deducted from profits. But if we regard
them as profits until they are called for, the
history of the past few terms has been as
follows:—•
Losses
Written
Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
June, T 5 .. £5OlB £2lOO £6,624
Dec., T 5 .. 3904 2100 8,428
June, ’l6 ~ 4453 2100 £984 9 797
Dec., T 6 .. 3649 2100 11,346
June, T 7 . . 2697 2100 1114 10,829
The capital is £60,000 in pound shares fully
paid.
* • * * *
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co. (S. Aus.) ;
To Re- Re-
Profit?. Dividends. servos, serves.
Dee., 1909.. £3BOl 8 p.c. = £2240 £ 1501 £19.856
June, 1910.. 3714 10 „ „ 2800 914 20 770
Dec., 1910.. 1945 10 „ „ 2800 -- 19 915
June, 1911.. 3092 8 „ „ 2240 852 20 767
Dec., 1911.. 3299 10 „ „ 2800 499 2L266
June, 1912. . 1841 5 ~ „ 1400 441 21,707
Dec., 1912.. 4008 10 „ „ 2800 1208 22 915
June. 1913.. 3824 10 „ 2800 1024 23.939
Dec., 1913.. 6000 10 „ „ 2800 3200 27 139
June, 1914.. 2848 10 „ ~ 2800 48 27',187
- Loss.
Dee.. 1914.. 1093 5 „ ~ 1400 24.694
June, 1915.. 965 5 ~ ~ 1400 22 329
Profit.
Dec., 1915.. 985 6 „„ 1400 21 914
Loss.
June, 1916.. 1137 Nil 20 777
Profit.
Dec., 1916.. 1735 Nil 1735 22 512
June, 1917.. T 751 6 p.c.- 1680 71 22*583
Nothing like it was in the days when
Britain ruled the waves and used her
sovereignty to such poor purpose. Still there
has been something moving, not only at
Port Adelaide but at Port Pirie. where the
Broken Hill cos. do most of their smelting
and this eo. has the job of carrying some of the
vi 1 ? * 01 ’ ie atter .i°b the co. spent over
fIo.OOO on a steam lighter three or four
years ago; and. as the next comparison
shows, the co. has been able to save up in
cash, etc., during the past five poor years
most of the cost:— ■
June,’l2. DeC..’l6 June ’l7
Assets apart from tugs, nne ’ 17 ‘
iurhters, etc. .£40,401 £31,852 £36.303
Liabilities .. 974 7fin j 361
Surplus. . . . £39,427 £3lJ>B6 £34*942
Meantime, certainly, two or three old hulks
have dropped out of the list, and probably
there has been some depreciation of steam
tugs and launches that hasn't been covered"
by repairs and renewals and replacements'
but, on the whole, the position seems to be
quite as good as the first table shows and
perhaps a trifle better. In the past sj x
months, for instance, though the P. and I
account exhibits a surplus of only £1037"
cash balances and sundry debtors in excessof
liabilities have increased by £1220 1
£21.477 to £22,703)', notwithstanding that
£2500 has been paid for a Port Adelaide
freehold to replace slip and other property
lately acquired by the S.A. Government but
not yet paid for. And meantime stores
account has been increased a trifle. All of
which seems to mean that an amount con-
siderably greater than that shown as profit
has been put by to provide for replacement
of plant.
* * * * .
Wellington Investment, Trustee and
Agency Co. (M.L.) :— ■
Added to R P
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves
1904.. £4116 10 p.c. = £2750 £1366 £18937
f £19,250 of reserves capitalised ) ’
rauo.. | 3510 10 p.c. = 2762 748 1 *35
1906.. 4708 6 „ „ 2989 1719 9U4
1907.. 4779 6 „ „ 3000 1779 3933
1908.. 4917 6 „ „ 3000 1917 sVo
1909.. 4312 6 „ „ 3000 1312 t’i69
1910.. 3769 6 „ „ 3000 769 t’gsi
1911.. 4658 6 ~ „ 3000 1658 9539
1912.. 4967 6„ ~ 3000 1967 n’556
1913.. 4957 7„ „ 3500 1467 13’0i3
Premiums on new shares.. 1047 14 060
1914.. 4698 7 p.c. = 3521 1177 15*237
Premiums on new shares.. 91 15,3*>8
1915.. 4669 7 p.c. = 4139 530 16,858
Premiums on new shares.. 49 15,907
1916.. 4676 7 p.e. = 4334 342 16,249
Premiums on new shares. . 14 16 263
1917.. 8988 7 p.c. = 4332 4656 20^919
Apparently £4434 of the past year’s profit
was made by the sale of the co.’s Lambton
Quay property; at any rate, that amount
has been added to the Reserve Fund, and
the I*, and L. account shows a surplus of
£4554 for the year. This transaction in real
property has changed the look of the
accounts somewhat. Twelve months ago
they showed £40.437 in freeholds and lease-
holds and £30,205 in “Government, Corpo-
ration and Harbor Board debentures.” Ileal
estate is now in at £8520, or £31,911 less,
while “Debentures” stand at £75,868, or
£45,003 more. It doesn’t, however, follow
that £13.692 (the difference between the
decrease in one item and the increase in the
other) was all profit on the sale. Maybe
some of the money formerly on short call,
for instance, has been put into War Loan.
All the same, it is probable that the profit
was more than £4434 and that the directors
have applied the excess to write down other
assets. Incidentally the directors mention
that the proceeds “have been invested in
Government securities at a price which is
calculated to give an increased annual
return.”
The co. owes £190.521 to depositors, and
(including _tlie vague “debentures”) it now
has £83,345 liquid. That, on paper, is a
better position than it has been in for many
years; but even now it looks shivery finance
to hold only £3500 of cash against £196.522
of deposits. The biggest item among the
assets is money lent on mortgage, £190.334:
and the time seems to be surely coming
when, unless the co. has lent with extra-
ordinary discretion, many of these securities
will have to be nursed. The question is, Can
this co. afford to do the nursing? This
paper doesn't know. It all depends upon
( 1) the terms on which the deposits are
held and (2) whether the co. is able to
convert its liquid assets fairly promptly into
cash or get other accommodation.
* * * *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.)
A'et To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1909.. £1421 12 p.c. = £9OO £521 £15,743
f ,,ne ’ , 9 ' ' 1351 10 „„ 750 601 16,344
Dec.. 1910.. 1913 12 900 1013 17.357
June, 1911.. 1826 10 „„ 750 1076 18,433
Die., 1911. . 1907 12 „ 900 1007 19,440
June, 1912..- ?.. 838 10 •> » 750 1088 1..,,.
n 1 I ransferred to capital. £5OOO (
& . 1732 12 p.c. = 1200 532 16,060
June, 1913.. 1528 10 ~ ~ 1000 52.8 16.588
Dec., 1913. . 1758 12 „ „ 1200 558 17,146
June, 1914.. 1610 10 „,, 1000 610 17,756
Dec., 1914.. 1878 12 ~ „ 1200 678 18,434
•Tune, 1915.. 1488 10 „ f> 1000 488 18,922
t ’ 1979 12 „ „ 1200 479 19,401
r, Une ’ 1503 1° »»> 1000 503 19,904
Dec., 1916.. 1656 12 „ „ 1200 456 20.360
•Line, 1917.. 1453 10 „ „ 1000 453 20,813
ca pital is £20.000: and as the undi-
vided profits now exceed that amount it has
been decided to make no further additions
to the formal Reserve Fund for a while,
but to make calls and simultaneously de-
c.are bonuses equal in amount, until the
shares, now paid to 205.. are paid to 255.
4he co. has also branched out to Geelong
and established an agency at Mildura. But
Arui duln t the directors give Geelong and
Mildura a chance to take up some new
shares, following the excellent precedent
established by the Union when it lately
extended its operations to A. 8. Wales?
There would certainly have been no Treasury


Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highlv satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the 1 "*
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts ol the woild.
Ask for
literature from
lijousf
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building. 84, William S.reet, Melbourne.
ilHnntiiiiiHMiimmHmiinimnmiiimmuiiintMiim'mtnmmmii■. S>l4o/Yv
m .iiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiii
*jpOß IMMEDIATE SALE
MOUNT MILLER
MANGANESE MINE.
BEECHER,
Boyne Valley Line,
Queensland, Australia
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Thc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital . .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
branches in every State,
Write for particulars.
\V. U. CAVK. General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney.
If you have a. motor running in a very dirty or
dusty place, protect it by means of a Type “F”
Form “K—2o” totally enclosed Oil Switch, which
is provided with no voltage and instantaneous or
time-limit over load protection, acting as an in-
surance against costly repairs to your plant, thus
increasing your profits. These switches are especially
manufactured for mining and industrial service, and
the Australian General Electric Co. will be pleased
to forward any information desired on these switches
or any other control problem that may present
itself to you.— Advt.
*’* A t
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia, Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline?-Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outsidu
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the logical pipe for water
systems, has greater carrying capacity, is easier to
handle and to lay, is lighter and saves cost in
freight, costs from 25 per cent, to 60 per cent, less
than metal pipes, and is the cleanest pipe for convey-
ing water, which preserves instead of corroding wood
pipe, making it last indefinitely. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited, (head office) 57 York Street, Sydney.
Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vie.; and
Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments. — Advt.
* * * *
Lottoid Plaster Sheets for linings and ceilings are
a line that require no boosting; Sydney’s foremost
architects are now using Lottoid in almost every
contract. Lottoid is supplied in sheets of thirteen
(13) different sizes, and can be cut and nailed as
easily as wood; has a beautiful hard snow-white sur-
face, which does not require painting after erection ;
and the price—2s. 6d. per square yard. Write for
a sample to Spriggs’ Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street,
Sydney, who are the Sole Agents for N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hdssel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Denby Motor Lorries selected as the best by
America’s postal officials. An inscription on the
New York Post Office reads: “Neither snow nor rain
nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers
from the swift completion of their appointed rounds."
And the “Denby” does it! Several 2|-ton models
from Australian' stocks. Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
head office: The Quay, Sydney. Australian Machinery
Co Ltd., 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
. Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
fhePacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain ~ 3,- ' 1,6
I 7d. (minimum
) 11/8,20 words)
New Zealand . 4kl.
Canada .. 2/4 1/2
U.S A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to2/4 {
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
AV'eek-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’BHouse, Queen St.. Melbourne. Tel. 2.->BS.
J. MILAVARD. Manager in tb n Piniflc,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ZTZ
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamize
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Special Steel Castings
We recently made the STEEL CASTINGS required to complete
a CHARGING MACHINE for the BROKEN HILL PTY. STEEL
WORKS. These Castings are, we believe, the LARGEST AND
MOST INTRICATE MADE IN AUSTRALIA TO DATE; the
heaviest weighs OV ER 7 TONS, another weighs 3 TONS, and is
15 FEET LONG.
If you are interested in Steel Castings, write us for in ether
particulars.
# - Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
objection if the directors had undertaken to
invest the new money in War Loan. There
is no reason, indeed, why this co. shouldn’t,
by the prudent issue of new shares —at a
premium, of course —establish itself as the
trustee co. of the rich West and Nor’-West
district. Perhaps that policy might not
seem to pay the present shareholders quite
as well as the plan of paying up shares
out of undivided profit and looking to
the extended business to maintain, for
present shareholders only, the 10 or 12 p.c.
dividend on the increased capital; but it
would give -the investment a stability which
it will hardly get otherwise.
The co.’s funds are very solidly invested.
No less than £36,291 is in public securities:
the balance is represented by freeholds at
Ballarat and Geelong (£3847) and enough
cash to pay the current div. and leave a bit
over. The co. is in its 30th year. The
value of trust estates in hand is £2,287,282;
and considering its hitherto local character
it has nothing to complain of in those
figures.
* * * *
Next year N. S. Whiles will probably be
the world’s biggest molybdenite producer.
To date Queensland has kept the lead ; with
.about 75 p.c. of the world’s output, N.S.W.
and Norway battling for second place. The
workings on Queensland’s big fields are
older than in N. S. Wales, where the great-
est visible deposits have not yet been tapped.
Queensland started off with 11 tons in 1900,
when the concentrates were worth about
£5O a ton, and by 1906 had reached 106 {
tons. This has never since been exceeded,
the average recent yield being 90 tons a year.
Meanwhile N. S. Wales had started busi-
ness, and last year bagged 54 tons, this
being 23 tons below the best year (1913).
The preliminaries have been completed for
the turning out of 100 tons by one co. alone.
When N. S. Wales first troubled about the
stuff —in 1902 —value was about £l2O a ton.
It remained in that locality till 1911, and in
1912 was down to about £67. Then came
the war, and while the 561 tons produced
by the Ma State in 1912 was worth only
£3706, the 54 tons in 1916 had a value of
£22,067.
C.S.A., Cobar, whose men had the bad
habit of striking when there was work for
them to do, have discovered that Nature can
put in a kick as well. Water having run out,
all hands were paid off at the mine two or
three days ago.
* * * *
They wouldn’t be happy till they struck,
too. The arrest of the three alleged leaders,
Willis, Kavanagh and Thompson—nature, by
the way, made only one leader in that crowd
—gave' them the excuse they wanted; and all
(lie Broken Hill mines were thrown idle on
Monday morning. Heaven only knows how
they think it will help. As a matter of fact,
it suits the Bosses admirably and merely
inconveniences the unionists in Sydney.
A heavy stock of lead bullion has accumu-
lated on the hands of the Sulphide Corpora-
tion at Cockle Creek; the works have been
turning out over 550 tons a week. The
gross value is, roughly, £lOO.OOO per month,
which gives an idea of the difficulty of
financing this enterprise. 'The Corporation
has in consequence limited its purchases of
ore from Tasmanian mines. The co. is now
building a lead refinery, and will try to
warm it up before the year closes. The
idea is that it will be easier to realise on
soft lead,, fine silver and gold than on
bullion.
* * *
A. H. P. Moline, the stand-by of Collins
House in alluvial work since he took over
Y Water tin, is throwing up his job to serve
under Dyason at Bendigo. Moline, in addi-
tion to running Cock's Pioneer, Pddorado
(Vic) has of late been supervising things
—on’fat fees—at Y Water. Adelong Estates
and Adelong Creek; so Dyason must have
made a big bid to lure him. It is a long
stride from running dredges to re-organising
methods on a dozen quartz mines; but
Moline is young and brainy and adaptable.
The pair have a big job, and can be trusted
to at least put up a great fight.
Hunt’s Dyke, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.),
suffers from Hoods and fuel—too much of
one and too little of the other. It intends,
nevertheless, to stick to the job of tiding
whether the old dyke formation will open up
another Al. The best seen so far are colors
but in the Mountains it takes a thick coat
of gold-paint to make mining pay. As a
second string the co. is on the hunt for a
two- or three-foot lode on the Dempsey s line
that the old hands were said to have
neglected in the good days of the field, it
will be contrary to experience if this yarn
pans out right, for the old ’uns were as keen
on the scent for gold ns the modern M.E.
Bendigo is thankful for a gift of £ooo made
bv Minister Livingston to enable Red, \Vhite
and Blue Extended to hustle with its low-
level crosscut. A find here would shake up
work on the whole of the southern extension
of the Slieepshead line. To the north the
Red, White and Bine shelled out £175,000 in
divs., and Hercules and Energetic, Lansell’s
ISO and Central Blue on the same gtrike
have all done their bit to build up the Ben-
digo gold yield, so the Extended hovers on
the outskirts of very decent sassiety.
The manager of Tyrconnel North, .which
has an option on the King of Creation at
Erlistoun (W.A.), has gone to Melbourne
with a box of rich specimens and a gaudy
report. The reef at 00ft. down is stated
to be Oft. wide and worth an ounce, and the
immediate installation of a 10-head mill is
recommended. When will this sort of thing
end? All over the West are mines on which
most of the outlay has been for plant. If
Tyrconnel North really has something to
blow about, which The Bulletin finds it
hard to believe, then the best thing to do is
to go on developing and let the question of
a mill remain in abeyance until there is
something in sight to start on.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance’s report for last
year refers to a new or “X” lode at the Nos.
7 and 9 levels. The management regards it
as an important discovery, and says that it
has been developed sufficiently to “warrant
the assurance of a notable addition to the
resources of the mine.” But what is the
immediate use of it, seeing that the average
grade of the mine is unpayable under pre-
sent conditions? Increased cost of materials
has put up working expenditure nearly 3s.
Gd. per ton since the war began, and short-
age of labor has lifted it a bit more. Opera-
tions have, in consequence, been confined to
the higher-grade stopes, and even then
monthly losses have been frequent, totalling
in the last year several thousands. In 1910
they amounted to £10,897. One thing to the
credit of the Board is that .the members have
ceased to draw any fees.
Word is round that the ore got by Edna
Central in the long east drive off the New
lode at No. 3 level is the northern extension
of the Edna Consolidated make of stone.
The Central working skirts the Consolidated
boundary. If it shows a fair length of stone
in the drive the Westonia market will revel
in another boomlet. The face carries ore on
both sides, and if values go 355. for any dis-
tance the Central pot isn’t on yet. Edna
Consolidated hasn’t proved much of the
shoot the Central is now belting into, so it
watches Giblin’s men with a kindly eye, as
every foot of pay dirt exposed by them adds
to the hope of its own battery. Develop-
ments at Edna Deeps are simmering down.
The market tip is that the crushing will
yield £BOOO of gold. There is going to be a
beano!
Lode Hill’s last clean up of four tons tin
oxide was a come-down; still, better days
are ahead of this Melbourne-owned Queens-
land show. The co. got 28 tons oxide
from 35,400 cub. yards, and made a
working profit of only £1407 in six
months. But that didn’t prevent it
dropping a divvy into the pouches of the
faithful stickers. The show wants more
labor; but the men prefer a merry life and
high wages among the cane-brakes to play-
ing with a nozzle for medium pay. Manager
Symonds is about to tackle the new block
on Knowlton’s ground. This he looks to to
give profits, but he hasn’t succeeded so far
in sweeping up the values the Northeys were
supposed to have left behind. Some of these
may turn up when the north side of the
Lode Hill area is put under the nozzle.
• * * •
The Anaconda (U.S.A.) has had such
success with a small plant for producing
zinc from complex ores electrically that it
is installing a plant- to produce 175 tons ot
zinc daily. It is claimed that at least 80
p.c. of the zinc values can be separated econo-
micallv, and this is ample to allow of the
effective smelting and refining of the other
metals. The concentrate is roasted at a
temperature not exceeding 730 deg. C. and
the zinc dissolved, with a little iron, electro-
lytically. A little manganese di-oxide is
added to oxidise the iron, which together
with any arsenic or antimony present is
precipitated by powdered limestone. The
solution is then sucked out by vacuum filters,
and the residues, practically free from zinc,
are sent to the blast furnaces. The solu-
tion, which, with Anaconda ore, contains
only zinc sulphate and a little cadmium and
copper, is treated with zinc-dust and again
vacuum-filtered, the solution going to the
electrolytic tanks, as it contains only pure
zinc sulphate solution. The anodes are of
lead, the cathodes of pure aluminium. Every
42 hours the zinc is stripped from the cathode
sheets and melted into slabs. In N. 8.
Wales ores such us those of Sunny Corner
and Mt. Werong, in which zinc values are
high, with ample water supply close by for
the production of electricity, should be
specially suitable for this treatment.
Apropos a recent correspondent's sugges-
tion that it was about time Australia pro-
duced its own carbide, somebody connected
with the Ilydro-Electrie Power and Metallur-
gical Co. sends photos of a plant which will
shortly be at work at Electrons, near
Hobart. The immediate output of carbide
will be 5000 tons p.a.,- but the buildings are
designed for a 10.000-ton output and the
additional plant will be put in “as soon as
possible.” The Australian consumption is
about 15,000 tons a year.
Wart”: Save for a few tributors, mining
at Zeehan (Tas.) is just about dead since
the closing down of the State mine. One
party last week struck a 4ft. lode on the
South Nubeena. The party had put in a
drive of 1030 feet and this was the reward.
The lode is soft carbonate of iron with Gin.
of clean galena in the centre and a couple
of inches on the footwall. It is very doubt-
ful, though, whether the party will be able
to market any of it for a time. The Sulphide
Corporation, which has a practical monopoly
of ore-buying in Tasmania, has given all
the Zeehan tributors notice that it cannot
take any more ore for the present. It is
about time Hughes made another speech on
the brilliant way he fixed up the metal
business.
* -if #■ jf
Gympie, the hardest field to kill in
Queensland, is beating Charters Towers
again. The July output of one was 38200 z.
and of the other 31320 z. No. 2N. Columbia
is giving the southern field its present lift.
Of Towers properties Bonnie Dundee is the
best worth watching.
* * * *
Calamity has struck the great Alaska
Treadwell mine in Alaska: the roof has
caved in, admitting the salt water of the
Gastineau Channel. And even Yankee min-
ing men shy at pumping out the ocean.
* * * *
The Government bore for oil at Roma
(Q-), which has been hung up pending the
arrival of drilling jars from America, is
down 2291 ft., the formation at the bottom
being sticky brown clay. Great hopes are
still entertained locally. This No. 4 bore is
a mammoth of its kind, the casing for 525 ft.
being ISin.; then lSjin., then 322 in.,
finally lOin. The intention is to run this
size down to 3700 ft., w T here the No. 3 struck
gas, and then continue with Bin. At 3Gsoft.
there will be 05 tons of casing suspended
from the derrick.
* * * *
The Queensland Mines Department dis-
plays an alertness and business-like energy
that are in striking contrast to the conduct
of the somnolent affair in N. S. Wales. For
instance, it is now drawing attention to the
demand for asbestos for building-material
manufacture, and notifies prospectors that
every attempt will be made to discover a
market for any material they send in.
* * * *
The Yankee copper man is hitting up a
record. Last year the total production in
U.S.A., including 105,462 tons from imported
matte, ore, etc., and 46,617 tons from scrap
metal, was 1,055,272 tons. Of this quantity
905,000 tons were converted into electroly-
tic* The American authorities value the
lot at £97,229,000. which is very nearly
double the £49,792.000 recorded in 1915.
Philippine Dredges hands out its first
shilling in good spirits, for the combined
output of Philippine and Paracale machines
a\ eraged 1700 oz. per month in May, June
and July. The co. still has some debenture
debt; but the Board proposes to reduce it
at the rate of £lOOO per month out of profits.
This should be easy while the output aver-
ages over £6OOO per month. The nominal
capital is £200,000 in £1 shares, but until
recently 30.000 shares were held in reserve.
As £200,000 = 50,0000 z. of alluvial gold the
little dredging fleet requires a long and pros-
perous career to return the capital. The
deep alluvial ground hasn't been worked
closely by diggers, so very large yields may
be obtained occasionally..
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 3Jf.)


TRY MAGNESIA FOR YOUR
STOMACH TROUBLE.
IT NEUTRALISES ACIDITY AND
PREVENTS FERMENTATION.
Doubtless you have already tried pepsin,
bismuth, soda, charcoal, drugs, etc., and
so you know that these things will not cure
your trouble- —in some cases they do not
even give relief—but before giving up hope
and deciding that you are a chronic dyspeptic
just try the effect of a little magnesia—not
the ordinary carbonate, oxides or citrates, but
hisnrated magnesia, which you can obtain
from practically any chemist in either powder
or tablet form. Take half-a-teaspoonful of
the powder or two compressed tablets with
a little water after your next meal, and sec
what a difference this makes. It will in-
stantly neutralise the harmful acid which
now causes your food to ferment, giving rise
to wind, heartburn, flatulence and many
other unpleasant symptoms, and you will
find that, provided you take a little bisu-
rated magnesia immediately afterward, you
can eat almost anything and enjoy it with-
out any danger of pain and discomfort to
follow. —Advt.
iiUIl:!:!
Csjd#ijra-jsi^ h
I
main
Cheering
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBJS.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
Hafe
arc ihe Grffectr
Qxpr&ssion
GgdcL 3S
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their
Spring and Summer Show
at their rooms, 3rd Floor, Denison House
Chambers, George Street, Sydney.
(jossdrd
They Lace In front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia-
get a bottle.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, August 20, 1917.
My Deaic Akini, —
Out at the Sydney Cricket Ground there
are 2000 voluntary workers. They have
come from the southern hush, the northern
hills and the plains near the sunset. Mostly
lean and brown and hard as nails, they are
farmers, rouseabouts and pastoralists and
sons of all of them. And they don't want any
lady volunteers to wash up dishes and make
the beds. This plain, unvarnished fact came
from a New Englander, head of a section of
bronzed workers who hang out the placard
“Inverell.” “When we called a meeting,”
said he, “45 men volunteered out of 55
present. There are 800 waiting to come as
soon as the Government says the word. It
wasn’t convenient to leave our farms and so
on—it never is convenient —hut we knew a
crisis had arrived. Fortunately, the shearing
hasn’t started yet, where 1 come from, and
I've only got a small shed, anyhow. We
camp either on those hoards”- —he pointed to
the grandstand with its mounds of straw-
filled sacking—“or on the open ground.
Most bushmen like the open best in this good
weather. Ladies to help! Help? No, bless
you, I think they’d better” —he was too
polite to finish.
They are serious smokers, these men—
wondering, you suppose, how the missus and
the kids are getting on. “Going near the
G.P.0.?” asked one. “I’d be ever so much
obliged if you’d send this wire to my wife.
I can’t leave here this afternoon, and I want
her to have a word.” “See that little group?”
said a West o’ Sunset man. “They’ve never
seen a city or the sea before, and the only
halt in their wharf-lumping is their occa-
sional lean-over-the-edge to have a look at
the water.” Trethowan, M.L.C., was father-
ing the flock on Saturday afternoon, with
A. E. Hunt, M.L.G., as general utility.
“Come and see the last relay at lunch,”
said he. “Next week we’ll have another
dining-room; to-day’s lunch finishes about 3
p.m.” Under the grandstand, where in by-
gone days, at big England v. Australia
cricket matches, the lawn parade turned in
for tea, long fables were piled with food
and surrounded by hearty appetites. Even
the pre-war garden-party marquee, housing
the insatiable hunger of our Best People,
was a picture of indolence compared with
the knife-and-fork work of the bushmen
who had been wharf-lumping since rosy
dawn,
Lady Macartney, wife of the Westralian
Governor, returns from England (n.v.) this
week. With a young daughter, she’ll prob-
ably pass through Sydney on Thursday or
Friday. His Ex. has been a grass-widower
for the past two years or so, and the West
hasn’t yet seen the good-looking lady.
A Norman Lindsay nephew, Norman
Wilkes, lately won the Military Cross. He
is a grandson of the late Henry Haminon,
of Creswick (Vic.), where the Lindsays
originated. This other Nor.nan was with
the front-liners who captured Ilermies—soo
against 1200 Germans with machine-guns.
One hundred and fifty prisoners were taken,
and Lieut. Wilkes stood off a counter
attack with his Lewis gun in what was left
of the main street.
Killed in France last week, Captain Roy
Blashki, son of Aaron Blashki, philanthropic
Hebrew and tobacco merchant. Five young
subalterns who had belonged to the Artil-
lery militia met two years ago to have a
final meal together in Sydney. All went
to Egypt, and thence to France. Only one
—Capt. Norman Dreyer—is standing behind
a gun now. Fritz’s shells have found But-
ler Wood, George Miller and now Roy
Blashki. The fifth, after sampling French
and English hospitals for six months, was
lately returned to Australia, and last week
persuaded the Medical Board that he was
fit to continue the interrupted argument.
Norman Lindsay has sold to Melbourne
Art Gallery his model of the Endeavor for
£lOO. llow much research into the mari-
time history of Cook’s era it cost before a
plank was laid only Lindsay can say. And
lie never tolls. Sydney might have had it :
Norman offered it as a gift to the Educa-
tion Department in Carmichael’s day pro-
vided it was accepted as the nucleus of a
museum similar to that at South Kensing-
ton. But they would promise nothing. The
Victorian trustees have also bought half a
dozen aquatints and etchings by big-brother
Lionel. This is the first time they have
unbent to the Australian etcher. Even
Shirlow is not represented in the Melbourne
temple.
There were only a few relatives present
in St. Philip’s when Neil Arnot put a
plain gold ring on the finger of Naomi
Camper. Mrs. Willie Robertson, of The
Gunyah station (S.A.), travelled over to
kiss niece Naomi on her wedding day. Lunch
at Petty’s came before the interview with
the _ parson. The ’groom, who is a son of
Major Arnot, of the Engineers, is an
orchardist in the Batlow district, where the
apples are as large as saucers and fat and
rosy. Blanche Camper was bridesmaiden.
Captain Aubrey Clyde Moyes, a young
Australian who* threw up a staff job over a
year ago to move into the trenches, lias won
a Military Cross. He is convalescing in Ire-
land from wounds. Captain Moyes married
some months before his departure Nina,
eldest daughter of Mr. James Edmond, who
was for long years editor-in-chief of The
Bulletin. The young wife abides with her
parents in Sydney, but occasionally breaks
out and worries the military authorities to
let her chance the submarines.
The Rutherford Darling-Bennet wedding
will interest Maorilanders of Otago, where
Rutherford sheep and cattle browse on
many hills. The ’groom, Dr. Rutherford
Darling, who hails from M.L., is now a
Macquarie-street man. He led another doc-
tor’s daughter, Helen Bennet, through a
grove of palms that decked St. Stephen’s
aisle, and two parsons,- Revs. Andrew Bar-
bour and John Ferguson, tied the knot. The
toasts were drunk at the Australia. The
’moon is waning on the South Coast.
While the wheels of industry turned creak-
ily elsewhere the man with the hammer and
the other one with a wheelbarrow plied
their tools in the ’Varsity grounds as though
there was never a jolt in all the world. The
new Methody College—where principal Scott
Fletcher, lately of Queensland, will say
grace—is almost ready for the pots and pans.
Its back view, as seen from the Uni pad-
docks, is a red-eomplexioned compromise
between a large villa with a pepper-pot tower
and a flourishing Wesleyan church with an
overdraft. Its front may yet have a more
dignified architectural apron. But it looks
at odds with its near neighbor, grey old St.
Paul’s.
Rather to one side, and behind it, with
much wheelbarrow and turned-up paddock
in between, is the ’Varsity girls’ dove-cot,
Manning House, handsome though new.
Only a third of the mansion it’s going to be;
yet its present dining-room seats about 150.
There is no chilly asceticism about the
counter-lunch system. A future lady Chief
Justice or surgeoness orders what she wants,
then carries the lot to her little table. While
war-time thrifters serve up recipes for
everything except chilled feet, Manning
House practises the art of feeding the girl-
student very well at a minimum of cost.
Miss Fuller, mother of this roomy restaurant
** and lounge club, and president of the Uni.
Women’s Union, is the lady who presses the
button. But she glides into silence and re-
fuses to part with the priceless secret of the
ham-bone or whatever the key to good
housekeeping may be.
The golden curls
that climb all over
Dorothy Brunton’s
pretty head are here
photographed by the
Glen Broughton
studio. Sydney’s best
girl (Flo Young is
over the border just
now, and Nellie
Stewart won’t feel
hurt) is kicking up
her graceful heels in
“So Long, Letty,”
before going to
U.S.A. The only
daughter of the late
John Brunton, a
scene painter who
made J.C.W. stage-
cloths look like gurgling brooks and good
grass country, Dorothy has been singing
and dancing her way into the hearts of her
countrymen and the gallery-girls ever since
her debut in light opera. A pupil of Mrs.
Hugh Ward, who trained a voice the teacher
insisted was there, this sunny Australian
now trills like a full-throated canary and
sends the words to the last person at the
hack of the theatre. “To Mrs. Ward,” says
Dorpthy, “and the sympathy and encourage-
ment she gave me, and to the kindly scold-
ing of Mr. Ward and the leniency of the
public, I owe any success that has come
my way. I always longed to visit other
countries ; but now the time is here, I feel
homesick before I’ve got as far as the
Quay.” There is a young-looking mother to
keep the girl’s battalion of admirers at a
chocolate-box distance.
Dorothy takes with her something more
than good looks,, a sunny disposition, a light
toe and a voice. There are brains and
application, too. D’you remember the two
or three quite-charming bits of verse that
have been printed over her name in The
Bulletin? “Faulty here, might be im-
proved there,” said the verse-taster; and
Dorothy worked at them till they were
more than presentable. I wonder how she
managed to find time.
Dot is going to do nothing hut play for
six months. In five years of hard work
she’s had only a fortnight off, and that was
for illness. Now the doctor is imperative.
If at the end of six months the war is still
casting black shadows the Australian girl
will get to work in musical comedy ( not
pictures) iu the U.S.A.
The organising
secretary of the Ma
State’s Recruiting
Committee shows his
bronzed face in this
little photo. If the
limitations of black-
and-white fail to do
justice to a hand-
some coat of tan ac-
quired partly in
Gallipoli and partly
as a farmer in pre-
war days, you can
imagine it. In the
piping days of peace
this big Major Shil-
lington—he’s like a
promising ironbark
in height and gener-
ous girth—played at
war’s alarms in the Mounted Rifles under
the late Onslow Thompson. But lie had
better luck than his old colonel. He was
with the 6th Light Horse in Gallipoli, and
after that flare went out served in Egypt.
Thence to France. In that uproar he was
transferred to an infantry battalion as
second in command, saw service on the
Somme, and was eventually invalided, first
to England and then home to Australia.
After all that active service no man is
better able to tell the hesitator how badly
Billjim needs mates to help him. Shilling-
ton seems just the man for the job—quiet
yet ready, persuasive yet hard-headed. “Of
recent methods,” be says, “the recruiting
train promises to be one of the best. A
northern tour was particularly well organ-
ised. But now the strike hangs up every-
thing—except the war!"
The death of John Haynes removes one
of woman's stoutest champions. She needed
not to be “lovely woman” to get John’s seat
in a crowded car or an offer to he her
parcels express. There were three ladies
who in turn were Mrs. John. The last was
a pretty sister of Mrs. Billy Hughes, for-
merly a Miss Campbell.
Another of the Wilshires has been killed
—Sydney, son of the late Osborne Wilshire
and nephew of the better-known E. H.
Wilshire, of the Public Service Board. A
brother fell on the Western Front a few
weeks ago; a third is in camp at Liverpool.
The veteran Henry Austin’s younger son
Ken is engaged to Arthur Allen’s brown-
haired daughter Joyce. Austin, senior, may
be seen any fine day taking his morning
stroll from Roslyn Gardens to town, a dapper
and active old gentleman with a possible SO
milestones to his credit.
Captain and Mrs. Lindsay Browne (you
will remember she was Marjorie William-
son) are back in this stricken city, at Mrs.
Williamson’s flat. By-and-bye they’ll go on
to Honolulu, travelling by the same steamer
as Dorothy Brunton.
A fashion note from Kosciusko;—
Complexions are worn brown, and the ultra-smart
usually decorate the face with yellow-tinted goggles,
while some ski-ers are wearing gas-masks to pre-
serve the nose from Alpine freckles. Balaclava caps,
that will ultimately find their way to the War
Chest, are too hot; a loosely-knitted woollen cap,
usually white, is just the thing.
Skirts are worn almost as, short as on the Block
on Saturday morning or in Souter’s illustrations.
Sometimes they descend to the knees. Beneath are
worn breeches, riding or otherwise. The fit and
hue of these should be chosen with care, as the
novice on skis usually displays them 32 times a
day. Blue puttees are worn over thick stockings,
and the fashionable boots are the sort that adorn
the feet of navvies, with an extra pair of Arctic
socks draped gracefully over the tops. To com-
plete the afternoon costump bright-colored scarves
and sweaters are permissible.
Skis are still worn long, with graceful curves at
the front, and without any draping or frilling.
Alpenstocks are carried daintily in each hand • the
art of manipulating them is difficult to acquire
especially when you want to use your hankerchief
without suddenly sitting down. And unless you
want to come home wearing an icicle pendant, you
must use your hanky frequently.
Some ladies prefer tan boots laced to the top
of the calf; but it is inadvisable to procure these
unless you bring your husband with you. Nobody
but a husband will lace these boots on a cold morn-
ing.
Mrs. Sydney Clarence will presently blush
to find herself the cousin of a steady stream
of young women who make good matches'in
spite of the wdr-time drought of eligibles
Another attractive relative of Gilchrist-
Watt’s managing-director's wife is wearing
a new diamond ring. She is Yvonne
Middleton, of Kalangan station. The lucky
man —the wedding will be in
is Stanley Ilume, of the explorer's family
which took root in Yass.
The Kilburn Sisters, who run an Angli-
can convent out Waver ley way, are in
mourning for Sister Irene, the gentle, sweet-
faced nun who led the first detachment of
the Order to these parts 25 years ago. Syd-
ney Anglicanism is of the “Low” brand, and
the arrival of "High Church nuns” made no
little stir- in the teapot in the 'nineties.
Old Saumarez Smith, who wore the locai
archgaiters in those days, was tolerant but
not cnthusisatic about the sisters: his suc-
cessor is an iceberg towards them. But
even in the chilly Sydney atmosphere their
work has grown from a little wooden school-
room in Woollahra to the beautiful grounds
and buildings of St. Gabriel’s Convent, and
they have attracted a number of local
recruits. A sister of Justice Rich, of the
High Court, was one of the first Austra-
lians to join the Order. Sister Irene’s best
memorial is the orphanage which she
founded at Burwood —now known as the
Children’s Home. Her brother is an Angli-
can dean in Scotland ; and her father was
rector of Dymock, of which one-time Governor
Beauchamp is patron. Sidney Marstou.
who was with parson Carr Smith at St!
James’s, and took a big part in the vest-
ments shindy at that tabernacle some years
ago, now expounds the Word to Beau-
champ’s tenants at Dymock.
Mary Edwards’s one-girl show drew an
appreciative queue of visitors. Dr. Burfitt
bought a charming study of a kiddy’s head.
And little red blobs here and there told of
visitors who bad secured souvenirs of their
journey to this fourth-floor studio. The
deathless fairy child who dances through the
decades in ballet skirt and gauzy wings
makes one delightful picture iu azure blue
and gold—very French in its delicate treat-
ment ; like other studies of youth by this
artist it gives us the child immortal with
dewy eyes wide-opened to the tired old
world.
With fine optimism the Rugby Union
names August 25 for an afternoon sports
show at Moore Park. The War Chest gets
the collection. Duntroon and Jervis Bay
lads supply the sinew for the United Service
team of footballers against the Public
Schools.
The Actors’ Association has lately had
a sinking feeling in its Benevolent Fund, but
hopes to be better after its big matinee on
September 4. The Association is lucky to
have headline mummers like Cyril Maude
and Marie Tempest to boost the show.
The Engineers under canvas in Moore
Park are to have a hop on this Friday night
—in the Southern Cross Hall; and band
instruments for B company will be the
postscript.
,A cry goes up from the Town Hall cellar:
Keep your old linen in lavender or rose-
leaves awhile, ye country housewives! Just
now the Sydney Depot, which cuts it up
into white mice and other surgical dressings,
can’t get enough space for big shipments.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
ltd
JEWELLERS.
FOR MEN
A SELECTION SENT ON
APPROVAL IF DESIKEI).
Gold-mounted Soft Sueuc
Tobacco Pouch.
9et. Gold, £ | 2 0
15ct. Gold, £ 1 0 0
Silver-mounted, 11/-
r
p
s
£ 0
All-Silver-plated Mask,
to hold 1-pint,
£2 5 0
AX ILLUSTKATED
CATALOGUE SEXT
POST FREE OX
REQUEST.
Silver-mourned Leather
Wallet, with pocket tor
stamps, cards, letters and
bank-notes,
£l4 0
M r ,; i
% ■»*
Plain Silver Cigarette Case, to
hold two rows of cigarettes,
£ t 10 0
Round Silver Matchbox,
flat shape,
Silver “Presto”
Pencil. On press-
ing the top the
round cedar pencil
falls in or out,
8/G
13 Hunter Street, SYDNEY; 116-118 Queen Street, BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON.
Take Post-card Photos.
.. . with a ...
“REXO”
Daylight Loading —for Roll Films
The handsome, compact Rexo Camera
is a fine example of high-grade work-
manship and optical efficiency, and,
with ordinary care, good results can
be obtained from almost frvery ex-
posure.
It has a seasoned wood body covered
with Black Moi 'occo Leatherette,
Rigid Rising and Falling Lens Front.
Brilliant View Finder, Niekelled and
Aluminium Fittings, Anastigmat Lens,
F 7.7, and Hex Automatic Shutter,
giving Time, Bulb and variable In-
stantaneous Exposures from l/10tli
to 1/lOOth of a second.
For Postcard Size Films (Size
31 * "Price £6/12/6
Films for above (6 exposures),
1/9 per roll.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
anti Other Metal Workers can depend.on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 57-59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying. Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold. Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (3 lines).
UP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St. 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
Entertain
Your Quests with the
PIANOLA PIANO
u
L,
Tk
n
,
IF you take pleasure in entertaining your friends
* if you love happy people around you, you need
the “PIANOLA.” You and your guests can
derive unlimited enjoyment from this wonderful
player-piano.
NO hackneyed pieces that one can hear every day
—no faulty fingering or embarrassing mistakes
to mar the entertainment you provide; the
world's best music played with perfect technique and
expression will ensure many happy hours for you, as
the player, and for them as the listeners.
TO possess a genuine “PIANOLA” is within the
power of all, for we offer you the advantages of
easy payments and a liberal allowance on your
present piano. The “PIANOLA offers musical values
and musical enjoyment impossible with any other
instrument.
IT is not a * Pianola unless the
word “ PIANOLA” is actually on
it. The genuine "PIANOLA” can be obtained only
in the following world-famous pianos:—The Steinway,
i\eolian Steck, Aeolian Stroud, and the English-made
Aeolian Weber.
Fuller particulars gladly given. Please ask.
Write for Catalog “ B.”
To the PI AX OLA COMPANY
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
shoving how I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can male on my present piano ,
which is a
Bought about
Name
Address
She
p
Co.Pty. Ltd. 384 George St.. Sydney.
s
THE CENTRE
FOR THE WORLDS
GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENTS
• o ir* o .
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS.
"Aeolian"
fife- Trade Mar*


Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-c.vlinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
Caille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
4-Cvlinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
--
HI
<.-\y
M
ran
arm ere
\
HOME~M/\DEr
CWEET/.
MADE specially for Farmer’s from
the purest ingredients, and under
the most hygienic conditions.
Also Special “Pink” and “Blue” boxes,
assorted Creams, Fondants, etc., in two
sizes. Prices 5/6 and 8/6 box.
We Pay Carriage.
Sava* u aansnansa
DELECTABLE, WHOLESOME, SUSTAIN-
ING are these delicious Home-made
Chocolates, daintily packed in Brown
Boxes, and tied with ribbon. PRICES, 2/6, 4/9 and 10/6 per box.
Packed in three sizes.
Simple Home Method for Improving 1 the HAIR*
fn4tr2 L Ulul°ratcdle°t n giv * e' r p Massa f c (non-greasy), t ° geth ®' e *nd
showing the Very Latest JSSSSKo
If you are in the least worried with hair trouble
you are invited to test, F ree of Charge the
remarkable merits of Gretonic Hair Massage
We make this offer because we know that amxme
who desmei it (providing the hair roots are not
dea . d) , gFeat i y lm P rove their hair in thickness
and length and can
positively remove
dandruff and stop hair
from falling by using
this remarkable pre-
paration and by prac-
tising the simple
massage lessons which
we also give you Free
of Charge. This is
the only common-sense
treatment at present
on the market. Cre-
tonic Hair Mas-
sago is a scientific
Hair Tonic which
penetrates to the hair cells clearino-
clogging matter, o-ivino- u r ‘ awa F all waste,
chance to breathe hair ’ 80 to s P eak - a
%£& Ha'S
Massage accomplishes all that we claim for
Why, then, should YOU continue with that
lifeless, dull, thiu, weak or generally impoverisn
hair that detracts so much from your appearance.
Every woman knows that crisp, bright, n
abundant hair will illuminate any face. It 1S .
first asset of beauty. Men, too, who stuuv
appearance know that a well-groomed, smart, ® ■
appearance depends considerably on the state o
hair. Our gift enables men and women aim
commence at home Hair Culture FREE.
50.000 LIBERAL SAMPLES FRB*\
Once you have seen for yourself the e ‘„
results of Cretonie Hair Massage J
obtain large bottles from your chemist or
Cretona
keeper at 3/6. Other Preparations such as Ci
Sll'l ninAn 0/1 nn/th ftl* 9 ' T)PF ClOZ* J
Face
Medicinal and Toilet Soap, 1/-, can Q 1
through your chemist or storekeeper, but i
cm ougu your cnemisc or storeKct-pct, ,
getting “Cretonie.” If not obtainable «
fevwcing • vrtHOiuc." 11 uw * "pmnrietors.
orders will be sent Post Free by the r P geJU
liberal Samples of any one Preparation win ‘ or
‘•‘wiaj samples or any one o
Free upon receipt, of 3d. to cover postage* *
tho complete set (six) will be sent for . Cretonie
cost of postage and packing, etc. Address, in [4
Chemical Co., ITS Castlereagh Street, Syaney
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, August 20, 1917.
My Dear Yarrtk.-
The first Australian nurse to be wounded
in this war—though seven have died and 141
fallen ill—is Rachel Pratt, of Alumbannar,
near quiet little Heywood, which snoozes in
the fat Western District. She was hit in
the shoulder by a German builet while tend-
ing wounded Billjims in an advanced casu-
alty clearing-station in France, and went
into a Blighty hospital on July 4. It’s not
dangerous, and the sisters at the Ballarat
Hospital, where she was trained, may yet be
shown the Royal Red Cross which she won
last yeai\
Australia and all its Billjims will say
“That’s good” to the news that Alatron J.
AlcHardie White, who left lately with a Vic.
nursing unit for Salonica, was safely landed
at Port Said with her charges when the
Alooltan was strafed. Alatron was one of
the original Vic. members of the Nursing
Service Corps, and did notable work, dur-
ing the Gallipoli campaign, at No. 1 A.G.11.
at Heliopolis. After being mentioned in
dispatches she became principal matron at
llorseferry-road in London, had the Royal
Red Cross hung on her frock, and came home
for a spell last October.
A T ery proud of her new uniforiji as chauf-
feur to the Royal Flying Corps (Eng.) is Airs.
Helen AA'ylie (Helen Broad that was). Her
hubby, a lieutenant in the British army, has
returned to the firing-line after being
wounded. Her four brothers are doing their
bit; one of them, Lieut. C. F. Broad, late of
Gallipoli, is prodding AISS. with a pencil in
the Melbourne Censor’s office. He is a son-
in-law of Bob Best, who represents the sty-
lish Federal constituency of Ivooyong.
When clearing a suburban post office the
other day, an officer found a small brown-
paper parcel tied carelessly with a piece of
string and addressed in scrawly childish letters
to “A Little Belgian.” Inside it was one grey
sock nicely knitted. Luckily the man who
found it had a heart above red-tape, so he
suspended the wooden departmental rule for
a while and took the orphan home to his
wife, who knitted a mate. Then, enclosed in
the old brown-paper with the pathetically
kind address, he speeded the pair on their
way.
Though not very much has been heard
lately of AValter AlcNicoll, the Geelong
schoolmaster who furloughed in Victoria last
year, after winning the D.S.O. on Gallipoli,
there has been plenty doing in his neighbor-
hood. AlcNicoll spent the winter in France
as brigad-ier-general of the xth Brigade. At
Aressines the xth was in the thick of it _and
captured a pair of field-guns which AlcNicoll
hopes to have sent to Victoria. That battle
cost the brigade 1342 casualties.
The Henry Noyes pair of Alalvern (lie’s
the machinery man)lately presented a motor-
car to the local Red Cross. Raffled, of course,
and the branch is £7OO to the good.
Colonel Cass is now stationed here, so he
and his little missus are flatting in St. Kilda-
road. Airs. Cass is a Canadian who met the
Colonel when she visited Australia years
ago. They did not see one another again'
until after the gong sounded. She was war-
working at the time, and he was on leave in
London. The meeting was romantic, and the
two fixed up within a week to see the parspn.
Alajor Fred Kcrouse, who took his wife
(Essie Perrin she was) to England in 1915,
is still at his war job. A sale board flying
from the Toorak house intimates that the
purchaser can have it with furniture and
bric-a-brac as a going concern. Essie, the
delicately fair ex-dancer, put on weight alarm-
ingly after settling down to home comforts,
and she and the devoted Fred, who was simi-
larly threatened, would tramp out from town
arm-in-arm to lose the Demon Fat. They
had to admit with sighs that the Demon
tramped close behind them. But a coo-ee
from the Fog says the war atmosphere or
the food restrictions have taken pounds off
both.
Cairns, youngest of the late Suetonius
Officer family, is returning from England,
where he has been using his expert know-
ledge in a high-explosive factory and feeding
on noxious fumes. The munitioneer originally
had designs on the trenches, but was blown
out of an Apple Island camp by illness. Artist
Edward Officer, who raked in more than
£2OOO for war funds by the sale of his own
brushwork, is Cairns's brother.
There is to be a ball in the St. Ivilda Town
Hall on September 5 to help the St. Vin-
cent’s Miniature Picture effort.
A Melba cheque for £2137 fluttered into
the War Council last week, the result of the
Melba-Maude matinde in aid of the Returned
Soldiers’ Amelioration Fund.
Wattle Day on August 24 is Children’s
Day. Last year the Foundling Hospital
people put a bunch of babies in the Collins-
street window of the Pianola Co. The place
was mobbed and the traffic blocked by a
crowd which packed up and shoved till the
window broke. They reckoned it time to
shift the babies then, and the show was over.
This year the display is to be done on a
huge scale. Gaud Mayor Hennessy has lent
Town Hall rooms, which will be converted
into up-to-date day nurseries wherein found-
ling babies from Berry-street and the
Beaconsfield country homes will be on view.
Mrs. O’Hara, wife of the doctor, is president.
Other very much interested women are Airs.
Alorris Phillips. Airs. Geoff Syme, Airs.
Aloore, Mrs. Baillieu and Airs. Roger
Thompson.
Airs. Andrew Chirnside, squired by her
husband and clutching a pink carnation posy,
opened a cafd ehantant at Berwick the other
Saturday afternoon. Its purpose was to
swell the fund which supplies milk to Billjim
in the trenches.
Dame Adelaide’s gossip:—
Mayor Isaacs has decided that two years of office
is enough for him, and he will not offer himself for
re-election. His bunnyskins will probably be filled
by Aid. Glover, another North Adelaidean, who
bought the David Murrays’ old home, St. Andrew’s.
H. C. Thomas, a son of the late William Thomas,
founder of London Graphic, died suddenly on Satur-
day. He came to this State some time ago, and
lived near Riverton, and, later, at Echuea. His
father, an intimate of Du Maurier, was the original
of Taffy in “Trilby.”
On the advice of the military the armored biplane
that was purchased with A. M. Simpson's cheque for
£2250 is to be used in Australia for training pur-
poses.
Another S. Australian to win honors is Lieut.
R. E. N. Twopeny, who has added a bar to his
Military Cross. He is an old St. Peter's boy, and
son of the M.L.A. for Newcastle in this State.
The trouble in the Returned Soldiers and Sailors’
League hasn’t yet been smoothed away, but the mem-
bers are quite satisfied that it’s a fair thing to give
Australia another chance to say whether it should
take the war seriously by adopting compulsory ser-
vice or whether the forlorn hope in the trenches
should be turned down and left to their fate. The
League has decided to ask the Federal Government
to take another plebiscite on the question.
One more local victim of the war is the Graham
Stewarts’ second son, Maxwell, who died of wounds
while on his way back to Australia. The only other
son was killed in action some time ago. Sad news
has also come of Lieut. Geoffrey Carev—killed in
France. His grandfather, the late J. G. Jennings,
was manager of the National Bank.
The estate of the late Mrs. Roy Davidson (she
died in California recently) has been sworn at
£85,000. The will includes bequests to many of
her old Adelaide girl-friends.
Miss Charlotte Borrow, who died a few days ago,
aged 96, was a daughter of the late R. G. Borrow,
who came here in ’39 with his wife and five children.
He wks one of the prime movers in getting a charter
to establish South Aus. as a separate province. A
younger sister of Alisa Borrow’s married the late
Judge G wynne.
Miss Hilda Felstead, one of our sweet singers, is
going to help Frederick Shipman make a fortune
during his tour with a show through the “East.”
She was farewelled during the week by a good many
of the patriotic societies, which she has been so will-
ing to help, and a few days before she left she was
guest of honor at the Mitcham camp, where Col.
Dollman handed her a keepsake from all hands, and
said —well, never mind what he said ; but you should
have heard the boys agree with him I
Miss Edith Adie, a visiting English water-colorist
who specialises in flower-beds, has a small one-woman
show at the Institute gallery. Her work is the
strongest possible contrast to the faultless botanical
studies, without background, of Mrs. Ellis Rowan,
housed in an adjoining room; for Miss Adie shows
the blossoms where they live. She sees more bright
coloring in our gums and other backgrounds than
Australian eyes detect; and in general she gives to all
her scenes just that smoothness and flattering dainti-
ness that a clever miniature-painter gives to faces.
Sadie Freer-Smith, daughter of the Als-
mead station Smiths, is to wed with Cor-
poral Collins, son of a Kew family.
Violet Thornley said “I will” very quietly
at the Scots’ Church, Collins-street, on
Wednesday, to Dr. Herbert Lillies, of Mal-
vern. Only a few were present, and the
bride was seconded by her pal, Mrs. Fred
Fairbairn. AHolet is a smart frocker. and
her girl friends are dying to have a glimpse
of her trousseau. But Sydney is getting a
first look at it.
A social intelligence officer reports that
the volatile Rita Kiddle is dashing around
London after trousseau ehiffonry for her wed-
ding with Major AlcKay. The courting began
in India in 1914, when the prospective bride
was tripping with brother Geoff. The out-
break of war sent the trio to England, where
Geoff got into British khaki. He fell in
Mesopotamia.
Norman Bayles will link up with a heap
of well-gilded folk when he marries the
Balfour Neill widow. She is the grand-
daughter of the long-dead Mathieson, ot
Mount Nepean station (the .To Tells own
the place now), and that means many
branches of sheepy relations. She is also a
sister of Mrs. Jack Moleswortb, and the
Molesworths have prospered and multiplied
since the early days. Norman’s second wed-
ding (like his first) will be of the golden
variety.
Miss Fitzgerald, a sporting girl wdio loves
horses and dogs, is going home to Tasmania
with the first prize and champion ribbon ot
the Ladies’ Kennel Club Show. Prince
Buggawugg won it for her. The Prince is
a hideous black pug with a perfect curl to
his tail and a perpetual sneer.
U.S. Consul Magelssen feels better now.
His pretty little wife has returned from a
visit to America, and they have settled down
again to housekeeping at Ivew in the dainty
cottage designed for himself by architect
Grainger (now dead). Grainger left the
poem of a place to a B’alkiner.
Tenor Balboni, forgetting his voice, thinks
his height his most valuable asset, because
the embonpoint that tenors inevitably acquire
is given extra room to spread. Tubbiness
is a fatal defect, he contends, and in his
desecrated English he tells of how Caruso
was once nearly cut off at the waistband. It
seems that Enrico and he were singing at
San Francisco when the famous earthquake
called in. Enrico, being tall and slender,
slid out of the chaos like spaghetti thi'ough
a sieve; but Caruso’s dining-room stuck in
mid-window, so to speak, and only a crowbar
saved Italy from going into mourning. To
this more or less authentic narrative Bal-
boni adds a definite threat of more opera
early in 1918. A rich and mysterious com-
patriot is to help the Fullers finance a com-
pany wherein Bnlboni, Filippini and prob-
ably Scamuzzi and Cacialli will play import-
ant parts with a fresh lot of ladies to be
recruited abroad. Count Filippini has
already left for South America, where lots
of Dago songbirds are alleged to be flying
about loose.
The Italians are still with us, though the
Gonsalez Opera Co. has gone to pieces. The
Fuller Brotherhood has taken its pick and
is sending them on a country tour to sing
from opera, in costume. Scamuzzi will bari-
tone. and Cappelli and his missus, Cacialli,
Lois. Barontini and Miss Russ will do their
usual song and sob. They are time-tabled to
be back in Melbourne for the Cup.
The orchestral concert promoted by the
Lady Northeote Orchestra Fund was a great
success on Saturday afternoon. Spite of the
two-year-long discord among the musicians
and the lack of rehearsal, they played quite
after the old Marshall Hall manner. The
G.-G. and Lady Helen arrived late, but
Governor Stanley, Melba and a bunch of
notables waited for them in a double row
at the top of the Town Hall steps. Melba
motored down for the concert. She had had
a party On Friday night and was due back
at Lilydale for another farewell that evening.
Concert dress? Oh, some subtle arrangement
of cloth, ninon and fur in brown tints. Lady
Helen wore black, with a hat upholstered
in inlets of magnificent ivory brocade. A
posse of genthelps danced about, some in
khaki and some in mufti.
Cissie Jamieson, who left for America
some weeks ago, sends an almost ship-
wrecked coo-ee. It seems the steamer grazed
a coral reef, and all the passengers con-
sidered they had been torpedoed or that a
raider had punctured them. There was a
scene of excitement, and Hugh J. Ward got
the spotlight by helping ladies with rather
opulent figures to put on their lifebelts. How-
ever. the ship got off nicely after helping
Hugh to one more ad., and he lived to arrange
a native dance at Pago Pago.
“Much Ado About Nothing” had a great
house to welcome the new Bailey-Grant
people at the King’s. All that was left of
the old atmosphere was Ned Duggan Shak-
spearing with a brogue as a “John” of old
Messina.
The dressing was magnificent. Beatrice
(Margaret Sutcliffe) wore a lovely robe for
the Cathedral scene. It consisted of two
faint blues covered in the train with a deli-
cate tracery in jewels. The long veil hang-
ing from her yard-high hat screened the
death-faint of Hero (Madge Surtees), who
looked adorable in her bride’s dress, with a
nun-like coifiing of white bound under her
chin and round her forehead. In her most
coquettish scene Margaret Sutcliffe wore
ivory and gold satin. The huge head-dress
with this was a gorgeous pink-red-purple—
like the color of the back-cloth during an
Aurora Australis.
Bert Bailey hovered at the rear of the
circle. His expression softened to a beaming
sn)il6 as each scene worked up more enthu-
siasm than the last. A Shakspearean kick-
off is an awful strain to the man who holds
the money-bag.
From a girl in London:—
Patriotism is worn next the skin now-n ,
if you don’t have to work in a munition-fart “
have plenty to spend on frillies. For tl an<l
caper is to have the crest of your best W
ment or battleship embroidered on-on—"'' n re?i '
all of them! The lowest price for one set •’ ° n
“regimental lingerie,” as it is called k iT this
And the highest ? Well, it would take an ”'- 6<l
to see top, as they say at nap. av iatov
The delightfully illogical she-“P ae ifinkt..
made a raid on the One-Woman-Om. n .
depot and had a sort of Hague
around one unfortunate member—n 6 n lOll
Brock. As a last convincing argument ‘ £
bumped the unfortunate woman’s £
against the wall. The dear, sweet ladies X
determined to have peace even if thm/i are
to stun the world to get it. J lave
Solicitor M M. -Phillips, who casts the
shadow of Ins large Roman nose on A \T
and bowling meetings in Melbourne fo
ried to a lady of some literary ability V
war story has lately trickled off her non
will shortly be bottled by Mullen’s fnr u‘ •
sweet-toothed public.
At one of Victoria’s agricultural schonk
where there were a good many mature ami
hairy-faced voung men, the popular favor
towards the end of each term, when Docket
money was tight, used to be a student W h2
papa was agent for a line of farinaceou
foods for infants. Young (say) Tigley ken
a spirit-stove in Ins bedroom, and behind an
ornamental screen he had a stock of u,!
food. After 10 p.m., when all the scholar!
were supposed to be sound asleep, shadowy
figures would flit along the corridor and dis
appear into Tigley’s boudoir. Then for some
time there would be strange, slobbery sounds
within, and stealthy figures would creeu
back along the corridor to their beds—a pro-
cession of noiseless young men with festoons
of baby’s-food dripping from their whiskers
and a pleased grin of satisfaction illumining
every countenance.
Mabel Balcombe Brookes gets her middle
name for the title-page from mamma Emmer-
ton, who was a Balcombe before she married
Mrs. Emmerton is a great-granddaughter of
that Thomas Balcombe of St. Helena who
early last century was sent to Sydney
by the British Government to look after this
country’s finances as Colonial Treasurer
Grazier Balcombe Beggs. of Eurambeeii
station, in the Western District, and Dr
Balcombe Quick, of Melbourne, both boast
the same interesting lineage.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


in
4!
Si
***»■ —,'jffi
ntixii nun MTTii nwiiirniTjnTini
mnmiii
I imiiHlilillniumi
i)liliiii|)l)il)ni)nl n l iiUiiiiiiii)i)ii miimiiniiiiiiiniiiiiiililiiniiiiiii
nmiiiu
Z 3
i
m
a
m
m
ll
I
17
*r>
1 V//i
Sc
I
I
m
t
'l
1
w.
■
S?£
iy.-.y
&SS
m
.
&
"mimtH
jm
mm
m
U
ft
)1
3
18
M
I
t
ft
1
1
8
M
•s*
mu iimiimii
ii urn
minim
inn
mill
DEW
uu
UWI
iSr
aWH/
£
=s>.«
y>
IS
Otis
j3>-
m
Reliability is the crowning virtue of Dewar’s. All its merits in distillation, blending. purity, age, and flavour
contribute to this one great end: that no matter when or where you buy Dewars you can. without any
fear of disillusionment, rely on an unvarying measure of rarest pleasure that makes Dewar s a perfect treasure


FRUIT LAXATIVE FOR MAMMA, DAD,
BABY, CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Better than calomel, oil or pills to
clean and regulate liver,
bowels and stomach.
Mother, daddy and the children can always
keep feeling fine by taking this delicious
fruit laxative as occasion demands. Nothing
else cleanses the stomach, liver and bowels
so thoroughly without griping.
You take a little at night, and in the
morning all the foul, constipated waste, sour
bile and fermenting food delayed in the
bowels gently moves out of the system: When
you awaken all headache, indigestion, sour-
ness, foul taste, bad breath, fever and dizzi-
ness are gone ; your stomach is sweet, liver
and bowels clean, and you feel grand.
California Syrup of Figs—“Calitig”—is a
family laxative. Everyone from grandpa to
baby can safely take it, and no one is ever
disappointed in its pleasant action. Millions
of mothers know that it is the ideal laxative
to give cross, sick, feverish children. Ask
your chemist for a bottle of “Califig'’—Cal : -
fornia Syrup of Figs—which has directions
for babies, children of all ages, and for
grown-ups plainly on the bottle. Remember,
imitations an- sometimes substituted, so look
and see that your bottle bears the name of
California Fig Syrup Company. Hand back
with contempt any other fig syrup. “Califi 0 ’'’
—California Syrup of Figs—is sold by all
chemists in bottles of two sizes, Is. lid and
Is. 9d. " ‘ ‘
o
I
King
CjeorgclV
1 WHISKY
rncTOPNOTCHScotch
ABSOLUTELY If
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Asperges’’: A strapping young cow-
farmer from the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) came
to arrange about his marriage; I gave him an
information paper to fill in—you know the style:—
Christian name ...
Surname
Residence
Occupation
Condition, etc
“Condition,” as a marginal note tells, means
whether bachelor or married; spinster or married.
A HARD SENTENCE.
COOLUM : “They bin put old George Kennedy
longa gaol, eh? How long gibit that
phella?"
SCRUB COCKY: “Life!"
COOLUM : “Gripe, that phella never do it!
He too plurry old!"
When I got the form back he had put down for
himself, “condition, healthy”; and for the bride,
“condition, prime.”
“Merrigal”: The Lower Macquarie
(N.S.W.) abos. christened the willy wagtail bid-gee-
ribbin and derri-derri. The Murra Warri tribe,
between the Warrego and Culgoa rivers, named the
brown jackass kugu-burra, of which our kookaburra
is doubtless a corruption. Amongst several N. S.
Wales clans bur-al-ga is the native companion ; hence
our word brolga. Bel-bundalooie is the bellbird,
and wah-gou is the crow. In the lingo of some
Victorian abos. wook-ook stands for the boobook owl,
woo-100-look for the curlew or stone plover, perrit
perrit for the smaller plain plover, kooroo-koo-koo
for the ground-dove, wa-waka for the bronzewing
pigeon and goo-na-ii for the maned goose or wood-
duck. Binghi’s nearest approach to the brush wattle-
bird’s call, which resembles that of a person about
to vomit, was goo-gwar-ruc. Some appropriate
names bestowed by the white pfella are pick-it-up
pick-it-up (the diamond-bird), four-o’clock (the
friar-bird or leatherhead) and Peter Peter (the
brown fly-catcher).
* * * »
“H. 1.0.”: “E.S.S.’s” par (B. 12/7/’l7)
re the bronzewing pigeon recalls that, years ago,
when the first rabbit-fences were run through the
heavy pine and belar scrubs of S.W. Queensland,
the fencers going to work along the completed part
of the barrier in the morning used to pick up dozens
of the beautiful birds. Flying low to water at
dusk, as is their habit, they knew nothing of the
fatal netting, with good results for the camp. Time
soon changed this, and after a few days the supply
of tucker petered out. It had learned to wing at a
higher level.
* * ♦ *
“Silas Snell” : He is a swollen-footed beat,
who wears branbag undershirts, and hunts Swanston-
street for fags. He encountered me and mine on a
Yarra Bank seat the other day, and after extorting
sixpence gave a little of the sad story of his life.
I was on the land wunst,” he said, “doin’ pretty
well, too, till the drought come ’n’ killed me trees,
n the fires come ’n’ burnt me fam’ly, ’n’ the floods
come ’n’ finished me. Had a wonnerful adventure
over in them floods. You know how ’tis with the
snakes when the waters come out ’n’ slop over
everythink ? They collect anywheres they can, on a
bit o’ land lef’ stickin’ up, or in a tree. I’ve seen
’em gather in their thousan’s on the back of a ’orse
standin’ in the stream. But it’s about meself I
wanner tell yeh. The waters in the last big flood
what finished me floated me. outer me bunk, i made
fer the highest spot ’n’ waited. In the evenin’ the
snakes started cornin’ in. I fort ’em first, fort ’em
with a stick ’n’ me feet, kickin’ ’em back into the
water, breakin’ their backs be millions. But ’twas
no good. They beat me. I had to give up, ’n’ let
’em all come. Betcher life, I thought I was in fer
a ’orrible death. But not me! Them snakes was
perfect frien’ly. They hadn’t a bite in a hacre of
cm. By-an’-bye I was up to me knees in ’em, ’n’
they done me no ’arm. Be midnight they reached
me waist, ’n’ more was cornin’. Then, done up, I
muster fainted away. When I eome-to the sun was
shinin’, ’n’ I was lyin’ comfortable ’n’ high-’n’-dry
on a raft floatin’ down stream. Et Tollbar two
fellers in a boat come alongside, ’n’ took me off, ’n’
then I see what the raft was. It was nothin’ but a
mass iv snakes. Soon’s I was rescood they split up
all ways, and made fer safety on their own.”
’.‘Wal”: Recently hunting through the
Owen Stanley Range (Papua) for the elusive golden
specks, I came on a village where the entire popu-
lation (four odorous colored gentlemen, their hideous,
ochre-painted and human-bone ornamented women,
three kids covered with “yaws” and filth, and a
pompous and skin-diseased brown prince in a village-
(onstable’s uniform of blue serge trimmed with red
braid), were mourning over the death of his High-
ness’s hunting-dog. From the clamor I thought
that some horrible calamity had over-
taken the tribe. Could it be a raid
by their mountain cousins in which
the young women had been batted on
the head and taken as wives? Or had
the yam crop been a failure? The
prince of wails told me the tragedy.
His beloved hunting-dog had been bit-
ten by a black snake, and the village
was giving the mong. the death-feast
with all the ceremony and honor due
to a departed chief. All hands had
gone into the deepest mourning, and
as this consisted of three or four deep
and nasty gashes on shoulders and
biceps, from which the gore was flow-
ing freely, I concluded that their
grief was sincere. “Oh, my father,”
howled the scion of a noble house,
“my belly is sore and my mouth is
full of earth!” I gave the despairing
mob a few sticks of trade tobacco and
they were* a little comforted. Three
months later I heard that the
bereaved friends of the departed had raided Gaunumu
and caused a big gap in the community there as
payment for its dirty work in causing the snake to
slay the illustrious tripe-hound.
“Melos” : If all you want is a good sub-
stitute for tobacco, try the leaf of the paw-paw. The
female of the species is most prolific, and her fruit
is a powerful digestive.
“K. 0.”: I have tried all the so-called
substitutes for tobacco, and 1 am ready to wager
that dried cowdung is the one and only.
“Moobitta” : “Hay” (B. 14/6/T7) speaks
of “a euro with spiked tail and shovel-like feet, to
use in his dugout where he resides.” Well, the euro
must have degenerated since my days of hunting.
Then he was built upon square lines ; shoulders, jaw
and biceps like old Ironbark Jim’s, with a dirty
jolt that would knock Capital off its upendicular;
coarse grey hair (not fur) —a champion among ’roos.
fie was never known to put up S.O.S. signs ; sure-
footed; lived in the Flinders Ranges (S.A.). Looked
leisurely for some rock, tree or waterhole for rear
ARITH[?]ETIC.
JACKY (at the settling up): “Tixteen shillun one plurry pair o' hoots! By cripe, Boss,
that plurry strong. I been gettum hoots alonga town one plurry pound."
support. Strafe he revelled in. After a thunder-
storm in summer you’d find him in a very sulky
mood. Three of us and two pups (greyhounds)
tackled an old-man pfeller. Euro hops into a small
hole of water, shoulders level with bank, and invites
us to tread on his tail. All right. The first pup he
reaches for and souses under water. The next came
along and joined his mate in schedule time. This
was too much for the proud owner, who jumped on
the ’roo’s back, grabbed him by the ears, and with
his feet on the animal’s hips yelled: “Let go my
dog, damn ye!” We roared, fully expecting a
tragedy. Then the strange thing happened. The
euro did what he was told, let the pup go, and stood
with his dangerous forepaws dangling loosely, look-
ing one of the most abject ’roos in old Australia.
But had we not belted him over the head promptly
the chances are that we would have had to bail out
that waterhole for fragments of our chum. No
monkey-tricks about a euro. Another I saw with a
eattle-dog under his arm, making up the rocks —with
alacrity and the dog—reconnoitring for a convenient
position. My chum reached him first (I never like to
be in the vanguard) with a big rock in both hands.
He, too, closed on the ’roo, yelling “Let go my dog.”
’Uoo neatly planted that sure foot of his fair in
my mate’s bingy, and I saw him hurtling through
space to the rocks below. The ’roo was in a
crescent-shaped cave where you could get neither
flank nor rear attack going. However, hv chapce, I
put home one gibber that steadied him. Letting go
the dog he made a mad leap, and I hung on to his
tiller. Comet-like off we went, over into the bushes
below, fair pn to my chum, who yelled, “What the
are you doing?” “Bringing this rotter down
for identification purposes,” was the best reply I
could think of.
“Jimmai”: Another bunch of trouble is
looming ahead of the North Coast (N.S.W.) rivers,
and it promises to be Quite as distressing as the
water-hyacinth. This new menace is known as the
thj-ead of life, and is an aquatic vegetable. It
has flat leaves, about the size of a navvy’s thumb-
nail, lying on the surface of the water, and from
the leaves down to the mud run countless threads
of the thickness of fine cotton up to that of
a leadpeneil. Spreading as it is on the uprwr
reaches of the Richmond, it will not be long before
it gets into holts with the river boats.
* * *
“T.Y.T.”: Here’s a trick invented by that
mighty hunter Binghi. When eels and blaokfish will
iK>t bite, shoot or snare a bird. (A parrot or star-
ling will do.) Take an entrail and slip it on over
the hook and up the line till the lower end of it
just covers the eye of the hook. Then bait in the
usual manner, and get the landing-net ready. You’ll
need it almost as soon as the gutted line hits the
water. Dunno whether it has the same effect on
trout, cod and other fish, but it may be worth a
trial.
“John Quill”: I guess “damper” didn't
derive its name from either of the sources sug-
gested by “D.F.” (B. 5/7/’l7). The name, as well
as the food, is strictly Australian, and originated
from the similarity existing between the method
employed in cooking it and a certain fixture, valve in-
door, called “the damper,” used in stoves, chimneys
and steam-engines. To “.put the damper on” in a
stove or chimney is to close up an aperture, thus
excluding air, preventing a draught, and increasing
the heat locally by stopping it from going up the
FINDING HIS OWN PUNISHMENT.
THE LADY: “ Ssh, -John, there's that noise
again—a harsh . grating sound! I'm
sure there's a man in the house!"
THE ACCESSORY: “Yes, m’dear. lie's tru-
ing to get his teeth into that cake O’ your
mother's!”
chimney or flue. This corresponds to the real
method of cooking- a damper, i.e., to cover it in hot
ashes (sprinkled first, of course, with cold ashes)
which excludes the air, makes the heat more intense,
and prevents burning. So, you see, the “damper is
really the ashes, and not the bread that now hears
the name. It is very improbable, too, that Dumpier
was the originator of damper. Seamen's tucker in
those days mostly considered of salt pork and bis-
cuits. A\ heat-flour was very scarce, and rye and corn-
flour (then used more extensively) are not suitable
for making dampers, as they don’t contain enough
glutinous substance.
(Continued on page 24.)
WITH SHEEP TO BITTER SPRINGS.
A Chant of the North.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Avon Downs,
And far from stations
Or mining towns,
With rum and rations,
Across a land
Of sun and sand,
The drovers sweep
With straggling sheep.
Six months, and more,
My first endeavor,
We’ve travelled o’er
The Never Never.
Of opals, gold,
The story's told ;
But this I know,
The sheep move slow.
Like sheep, and sheep,
The same thing over,
The slow months creep
To damn the drover.
It seems to me
We’ll never see
The end o’ things
At Bitter Springs.
When will we meet
With merry places,
Clink glasses, greet
Some women’s faces?
AVe're short o’ food ;
We carry wood ;
The bluebush swamp
Is now our camp.
No gidyas rise
(Old, long-lost cronies)
To cool our eyes.
We’ve left Anthony’s 1
Blue, blest lagoon.
We’ve seen the moon
Light, through swift rains,
The Black Soil Plains.
Through scrub we’ve passed
Withscarsandscratches;
And left at last
The jungle patches ;
Left far behind
The white wood kind,
And all good cheer,
And waters clear.
High walls o’ weeds,
The Elsie’s greeting!
My horse still bleeds
From t hrough ’embeati ng.
Three feet before
You’d see, no more,
' Eight .miles or so
We had to go.
We drove ’em through
The beaten passes,
To come on blue
And smoky grasses.'
I’ll think again,
To keep me sane,
Of Border towns,
And Avon Downs.
For now we skirt
The Desert burning,
With sandhills girt;
There’s no returning.
All, all around
It’s just cracked ground,
Monotonous
As Hell to us.
How will it end?
You see that fellow ?
He was my friend —
You’ve met Jack Kellow?
A real good sort
And fond o’ sport,
And liked a spree
The same as me.
He’ll laugh, he’ll sing.
That cranky drover,
At Bitter Springs,
The long job over,
And when we’re there
He’ll drown all care!
f I’ll break his head,
Or sing him dead.)
Dull thoughts, black oaths,
How can I smother !
Each drover loathes
His mate, his brother;
Mad with the sight
By day) by night,
Awake, asleep,
Of sheep, sheep, sheep.
My watch to-night....
It’s no good speaking ;
The red dawn light
Will soon be streaking.
Yet must I keep
Watch o’er the sheep,
And curse it ever,
.The Never Never.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


STEP OUT IN A MURDOCH
We guarantee full satisfaction
or refund your money.
SUIT THIS SPRING
Spring indications will remind you that your
appearance needs refreshing, and in a
Murdoch Suit you get splendid advantages.
Just sum them up —quality fabrics in fash-
ionable shadings—smartness and style in the
cutting —excellence in the finish —value and
practical saving that is unapproachable else-
where.
Order Your Suit To-day.
A fine range of New
Season’s Tweeds in
Grey and Brown
s h a d e s —splendid
cloths.
A special lot of
Australian Worsted
Suitings, fast dyes
—Blue, Brown and
Black grounds, with
white pencil stripe.
701-
Suit to Measure
95/-
Suit to Measure
Call and inspect these Suitings, or write to
Desk R for patterns.
Desk R.
Messrs. Murdoch's in Park St., Ltd., SYDNRY.
Please send patterns of New Season’s Suitings
at the Suit-to-measure, with tape and
self-measurement form.
Name
Address
R
m
■M.
■m
tl
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
(Sowp/ofq Outfitters [ \
UrA for Men <&l Hops
•*!»
mm
w
a
%
1*
'■ I
\K
m
•:*vv
Ik
B^^
SF
1
k
AH*
r"
NORTH
BRITISH
TVrcs
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
"The Tyres that
are Superior”
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
SMITM V 1
JULIUS
WILLIAM CROSBY & CO.,
Wholesale Agents f r
New South Wales.
20 Loftus Street, Sydney,
30
The Stewart Hand-operated
Warning Signal.
A single downward pressure on the plunger pro-
duces 192 distinct sound impulses, giving a sharp,
warning blast that penetrates all other noises and
compels attention. The full, round, hearty tone of
the Stewart is heard on the roads of every country.
The gears in this signal are all case-hardened, and
each is supported on a shaft both ends of which
run in hardened steel bearings. This means long
life and good service—many a Stewart Signal has
outlasted the car it was fitted on.
An oil-soaked felt pad lubricates the Stewart Warn-
ing Signal. This pad rubs continuously against
the wheels, and so both gears and bearings are kept
Avell oiled.
A special bracket is fastened to the Signal both at
the middle and the end, and the heaviest blow on
the plunger will not loOsen the horn. This Stewart
bracket is made with a swivel which allows the horn
to be placed so that the sound is always projected
straight ahead.
The Stewart Warning Signal is constructed of the
highest-grade materials, by skilled workmen, and
is extremely practical in design.
The Finest Hand
Signal Made.
YOU
MUST
HAVE
A HORN
ON YOUR CAR.
WHY
NOT
HAVE
the BEST?
STEWART WARNING SIGNALS
are obtainable from all
Motor Accessory Dealers.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.,
129 Sussex Street, Sydney.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Most Efficient Signal Obtainable.
50
The Stewart Motor-driven
Warning Signal.
This Signal is fitted with a powerful, efficient motor
enclosed in its own case. Very little current is
required to run it, and, owing to improved design,
the motor does not stick. It is a great improvement
over the ordinary “electric horn.”
The winding of the motor is fully protected against
moisture; the commutator is built from hard-drawn
copper, and will wear indefinitely; the brushes are
of specially large size, so as to eliminate electrical
resistance.
Front bearing is of bronze, and rear bearing, which
takes the thrust, is provided with a hardened steel
ball which comes in contact with ground end of
armature shaft. Contact is just a point. Friction
eliminated.
The warning note of the Stewart Motor-Driven
Signal is wonderfully effective, and can be heard a
great distance away. A big push button is provided
which can be pressed with hand, wrist, elbow or
arm. It can be placed on the side of the car and
pushed with the knee, op in the bottom of the car
and pressed with the foot.
The slightest touch on the button brings forth a
flood of sound impulses—a warning that all must
heed.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt. r
z ANK tic entirely eliminates' the danger of un-
' e p l a rt e COpies - Bv " sin 2 penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
Wrrlt ° T n ? lna + ls ' 7 From stationers, or 5.8... Zanetic-
"oiks, Leicester, England. n
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-G COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
NAZETHA
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive effed in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma (8l All Chest
Affections.
16 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
SAYS PHOSPHATE INCREASES
STRENGTH AND ENDURANCE.
Weak, nervous, debilitated men and women
who become exhausted after the slightest
mental or physical exertion, to whom sleep
is denied, and whose drawn, haggard fea-
tures bear mute testimony to their pitiable
condition, can regain health, strength and
endurance in a few r weeks by obtaining from
the chemist a supply of 5-grain bitro-phos-
phate tablets, and taking one regularly at
each meal. All the above painful conditions
are due to weak nerves and lack of nervous
energy. Bitro-phosphate feeds the starved,
shrunken nerves, and builds up a reserve ot
nervous energy by supplying in the only
assimilable form those phosphoric food ele-
ments which are the life of the nervous sys-
tem. The results following its use are most
gratifying. Sleeplessness usually disappears
within a week or 10 days, thin people put on
flesh, strength returns to shrunken muscles,
the power of endurance is doubled, sunken
cheeks fill out, the eyes become bright and
all the old nervous worries and dreads dis-
appear, and life becomes what it should be
worth living. Try it and see. — Advt.
Cigarettes for Men
at the Front
Doctors say cheap cigar-
ettes are bad for our soldiers
and sailors. Why not send
your friend the very best
l De Reszkes”— he's
surely worthy of them. Buy
them yourself and post them
yourself— then you know i
they must reach him safely. 4
Sold Everywher;
‘‘Tidal Waters”: Beware the apparently-
dead eel or snake—especially the recently alive sort
that has just been subdivided. A friend caught a
7ft. conger (ljin. waist measurement), which tied
itself into as many knots as a Win-the-War poli-
tician. The fisherman didn’t want the brute, but he
required the hook, and so took a seemingly safe pre-
caution by cutting off the wicked-looking head and
about 6in. of neck. Then he took the fragment of
eel and made a try for the hook. He got his finger
bitten to the bone. My snake sermon concerns the
headless remains of a 20in. adder that squirmed out
of grass that a mate was hoeing. About a minute
later the missing head was found by another man.
He picked it up, and was prising open the jaws with
a small piece of stick, when they opened and closed
on the wood with a vicious snap.
“Tahmac”: I was writing a letter for a
bloke to his brother, away navvying, and asked:
“What address, Jim?” “Oh,” said he, “put this—
‘Bill Burns, Burnie. If not there, tell them to send
it up the blanky line.’ ” And that’s how it went.
“Billy B.” : The odd habits of smokers are
innumerable, but a pal of mine has, I think, the
strangest. When he lights up he puts a thimble on
his right forefinger to press down the lighted tobacco
and retains it there until pipe-out.
“Beatrice G.” considers why she is not in
the pot:—
This July evening I am out by nwself in the
forests of the Papuan mainland, surrounded by wild
cannibals who are already lighting the fires for their
meal, and howling fiercely over the anticipated feast.
It sounds well, does it not? And yet it is not
the least bit of an adventure. It is only my planta-
tion boys cooking their fish and rice, and singing a
bit, because they are glad it is dinner-time. They
are certainly cannibals at home, most of them —and
all of them will be cannibals as soon as I can “sign
off” the small lot who are not, or replace them by
others. For the Orokiva—who eats men at home
on the Mamba River, and who has the nasty habit
of neglecting at times to kill them before ,he eats
them—is the best plantation boy you could wish
to have, here a few miles from Samarai, within
touch of magistrates and law. He is half as big again
as the wild little men from the islands; his limbs
are like the trunks of the trees he delights to fell;
he eats like a horse, and works —well, sometimes
like a horse, and sometimes “like a nigger,” which
means as much as you make him, and no more. He
is full of pride and vanity; he “shakes” your wash-
ing-blue to paint his face, and spends more time
than he ought to oiling himself with grease
abstracted secretly from the frying-pans and pull-
ing in his waist with the bandages you gave him to
tie up his sore leg. He is as simply and naturally
destructive as a waterspout or a kid of three; if
domestic exigencies oblige you to put him in the
kitchen for a day, you will wish you had let a
Burns-Pliilp mule loose there, for choice, instead.
He loves to hear things smash, and will even let his
dinner stand until he finishes tomahawking through
a huge tree and sees it go crashing down. The howl
that he and his mates let loose at the fall of every
trunk makes you understand just what a cannibal
raid sounds like when it lets loose.
Why does he not eat his employer? Because it is
not in his scheme of life. At home, on the Northern
rivers, when a man dislikes a man, or a village has
a grudge against a village, it is simple and
natural to spear or club him, or it, and feast on
the good meat resulting. But employers are differ-
ent cattle. You engage to work for them because
your village wants steel knives and tomahawks,
and red shell-money, and tobacco, and kerosene and
hurricane-lamps and calico and beads. These things
are to be had by sending the young men forth to
“sign on” for a year or so; the employer is the
source from which they flow. You don’t kill the bird
that lays such eggs. Even if he is perfectly mad-
dening at times—as all employers, male or female,
are—-you do not crack him or her one on the skull
with your three-foot clearing knife, as you would
MOVABLE FEASTS.
THE GOOD LITTLE MAID: “Poor man, what caused you to become a tramp?”
PERIPATETIC PERCY: “Me family physician, Miss. ’E advised me to take long walks
after meals.”
naturally like to do. The Government is narrow-
minded and prejudiced about such things; and in any
case, among the best cannibals, such things simply
are not done. It is, at the bottom, some obscure
vein of native etiquette that (in all probability)
keeps white people’s heads on their shoulders, here
in Papua. Anyhow, they are kept.
THE BARGAIN-COUNTER.
THE FIEND: “ Isn’t that Miss Wrinkle over there? What sort of stock is she?”
THE WRETCH: “ Bankrupt, old boy, bankrupt.”
“Yarrum”: Who has heard a snake
whistle? One night, at Bungonia (N.5.W..), I heard
whistling in the distance. “Hullo,” said my mate,
“a snake!” We got a lantern, and down the pad-
dock behind a stump was a buck snake whistling
for a lady friend, I presume. I cracked Romeo’s
back. On the way home we met Juliet, who had a
spurt on. She got on her high heels, and put up
a fight; until we sent her on to the address of her
hoy.
“Ridiculus Mus”: F. G. England, of
Cuming, Smith Pty., Ltd., has devised a, method
which has outed 36,000,000 mice—6oo tons—in six
weeks. Round the wheat stack are erected two
parallel fences, each consisting of a single continu-
ous sheet of corrugated iron, 3ft. high. The surface
on the inside is blank, affording no foothold. A
mouse’s maximum jump is 18'in., so that when he
climbs in by means of the sacking artfully placed for
his Convenience, he cannot hop out. At each corner
of the stack is a pit 2ft. across and 2ft. 6in. deep,
metal-lined. Into these the trapped mice are driven
in thousands and spifiicatcd with bisulphide of car-
bon, three tablespoonsful of which are poured in
when the pit is full, and- before it is covered. The
cost is a few farthings per 10,000 mice—the average
contents of a pit. A kerosene-tin holds 800 wet
mice, swollen with water, or 1100 dry mice which
have been gassed, so that computation is easy.
* * * *
Bung” : In a chaff-house at Bungendore
(N.S.W.) there was captured recently a mouse with
snow white head, over-sized rounded ears, unusually
lengish fur and a short, stubby, tapering tail. Was
this stranger the advance agent of another coming
nark, or simply a freak?
*
Larrikin ’: Bush married couples are
usually a tough proposition, but a pair' I struck
lately beat the record. They got snake-headed with
the manager of the station and started off at a
moment’s notice to the railway per boot. They
refused all help (being a pair of haughty fizzers),
and snorted at the offer of a buggy and pair. The
cove humped a change of clothes, a bit of tucker for
he track and a quart; the missus carried a spare
skirt and blouse. It was the wet season, the river
was m flood, and it was 40 miles to the railway
also it was heavy going over the black soil, and "it
puked up a treat. However, they made 20 miles’
the first day, crossing three channels of the river-
running pretty strong, too, it was! The lady got
over two by scrambling along the top of the ‘ wire-
fences, while her dutiful held them taut. At the
bird channel the two travellers waded through up
.to their necks. They then struck a selection
camped for the night, and next day resumed the
tiaek, again refusing the offer of a buggy. When
hey got near their goal, the railway, they changed
into their store clothes, and arrived in the town-
ship in complacent triumph. Meanwhile the mana-
gei o le station had wired in despair to a friend
m the town; 'Johnsons left two days ago. Have
you. heard of their whereabouts? .Advise me Verv
anxious their safety.” He gpt this reply “John
sons O.K. Arrived fresh as paint. Had square feed
Now taking siesta on hotel balcony.” * d ‘
“Eryander” : I met many sea-snakes dur-
ing my years in the East Indies. Science knows
about 60 species, all highly venompus. They abound
in the Indian Ocean and the Malay Archipelago, and
one species, Pelamis, occasionally finds its way down
the eastern coast of Australia. Only one of the
species I know is not strictly aquatic. All the others
die quickly when landed, and none of the them-wifi
survive.more than a few days in a« aquarium. The
body is laterally compressed for swift swimming
the lungs extend nearly to the tail, and the nostrils
are so placed that the snake can breathe freely with,
out showing above the surface. These Hydrophidie
do not, like land snakes, get the old skin off in
one act. I have often seen them arrayed in rags
and tatters of worn-out overcoat. They feed exclu-
sively on small fishes, which are poison-paralysed
before being swallowed. Humans are not frequently
bitten. The sea-snake will always get away if it
can, and the only two fatal cases I know of were
due to reckless handling.
THE CHAMPION STAYER.
DOMAIN ORATOR: “An’ let me tell yer [?]
’ardcst thing to eradicate in this world
is environment.”
BILL (from Outback): “Here, what about
prickly pear?”
A LAND OP PLENTY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A mighty flood of fruit from out the orchard
flowed; cnards ov er .
Pi ime apples, twelve good pounds a boh .
splendor glowed ’ cri| uson
Upon the barrows. To the roof cool-store,
chock-a-block r es were
With apples. Every boarding-house laid in ,
stock, n °We
And every day new dishes tried
Of apples, baked, stewed, fried and pied
Down from the back of Nar-oar-goon and ,
Barker’s Flat 13 lom
Wi’ rabbi’ came, ten-thousand by ten-thousand v
and f@t; ’ *°” n "
And from a thousand gullies, green amnne
sand hills; a thou -
Eat rabbits travelled citywards. With various ki, i
of frills . 3 Kl,,ds
In every Melbourne eating-place
Rabbit was given pride of place.
And when the barracoota ran in millions in the b
With fish the city soon was served in quite a w'l’
way.
But, in the midst of plenty, Bill the Boozican ffn
blue
About the gills. “Fish? Pish 1 ’N’ rabbits? p a ni
1 never knew,” -
He muttered, with an envious sneer
(Then sighed), “a Manky glut o’ beer!”
VICTORIA.
O.L.


swre (kpress
CIGARETTES
Perfect satisfaction
—a sense of infinite,
joy—a feeling of
deep content All of
these joys and more
may be yours to-day.
You will find them
wrapped up in every
State Express Cigar-
ette waiting to be
unfolded by you at
your leisure.
u
m
I*l
w
€
fe
%
Y,
\
‘
/
w*\
pg
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
10
for 6d.
Standard Weight NOT LESS than 10 for Sixpence.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.. LONDON, ENGLAND.


INVALUABLE TO MUSIC STUDENTS and others who give dose application to their work.
MU. SIMMS WALLER,
Conductor of
the “Look
Who’s Here
Orchestra
at the
Palace
Theatre.
•••••
•■■-••
HEAN’S Tonic NERVE NUTS
THE RELIABLE HOME REMEDY for
Nervous Headaches, Insomnia, Palpitation, Anaemia,
Backache, Brainfag, Hysteria, Dyspepsia,
Neuralgia, Lassitude, Breakdown, . Overwork,
And All Neurasthenic Conditions.
“I heartily commend HEAN’S TOXIC NERVE NUTS to anyone
in need of such a preparation. As a restorative of mental energy
after periods of brain fag, due to close application to work, NERVE
NUTS are most effective. Music and other students will find them
invaluable. “SIMMS WALLER.”
HEAN’S TONIC \ ERVE NUTS do their good work by purifying and
enriching the blood and nourishing the nervous system. They do not
contain any harmful, habit-forming drugs, and may be used with every
confidence by sufferers ‘from run-down nerves.
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS are obtainable from all leading
chemists and stores. The prices are —Small size. 2/- per box; large size
(containing double quantity), 3/- per box; or six boxes for 17/3. Should
they not be obtainable in your locality do not accept any inferior substitute,
but send price, and your order will be filled per return mail by
G. W. HEA N, Manufacturing Chemist,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HEENZO
GREAT MONET
i SAVING REMEDY
Ha-TISHOO! 1
You have a cold,fresh caught or old," 5
You wheeze &.sr\eeze;buf eerv 50,
You rveedht wheeze, or sr\eeze,for ease
Succeeds a dose of HEE N ZO
COSTS ?/•
MAKES w®
PIM MIXTURE
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Dry Shave”: Do these Comforts Funds
ladies, when they take on the bottling and
sale of jams and preserves, come under the
Health Act in any of the States? If they
don’t, it’s time they did. There is nothing
to indicate that the home-made stuff: they
put up conforms with the regulations. As
for the containers—-well, come and see the
jar of marmalade I’ve just bought. The
screw-top is rotten with rust and the paper
cap lias senile decay. Lord help us if we
can’t get cleanliness from a concern working-
under the Red Cross!
Four months ago little Palmer, M.H.R. for
Echuca, was loaded up with misinformation
to the effect that the British Imperial Oil
Co. of Australia was practically an enemy
concern, whereupon he put a question in the
House which drew a promise of inquiries.
The result was posted in the Reps, the other
afternoon : “The British Government advises
that the co. is British and there are no rea-
sons why it should not be treated as such.”
The facts seem to he that the co. was formed
in England to buy certain rights from the
Dutch parent co. ’lt put up £200,000 for
this patriotic purpose —all of it English
and has spent more than that in case making,
tinning and other plant and equipment m
Australia; and there isn’t an enemy alien
from top to bottom of its pay roll.
* * * *
“N.-B.II.”: Referring to the ridiculously-
inadequate salary offered by “one of the big-
gest Broken Hill dividend-payers (I>.
28/6/T7) for taking charge of its dotation
plant, The Bulletin (28/0/T7) concludes:
“So Australia remains naturally a country
mostly of ’ wood-and-water-joey jobs.” It
might have said of “sanitary-pan-attendant
jobs.” The sanitary-man, on the mine in-
stanced, receives £3 19s. Bd. per week, while
the surveyor gets £4—only 4d. more. Ihe
surveyor must be able to do careful and often
exceedingly-uccurate work expeditiously ; he
must be well up in mathematics, and have a
fair knowledge of chemistry, physics, geology
and mineralogy ; he liiust also be a neat
draughtsman, 'and capable of designing cer-
tain mechanical details. Further, being a
member of the staff, he is privileged to work
overtime without extra pay. The sanitary-
man, on the other hand, is generally a person
incapable of doing any other work about the
mine, and whose only qualifications are a
defective olfactory sense and an indifference
to “chaff.” Yet there are people who doubt
the necessity of organisation in the pro-
fessions.
* * * *
A London Court has given England’s food
position a shockingly bad ad. by fining an
old American lady for feeding the birds in
her own garden. She wept freely in court,
saying that she had been doing it for 73
years; also that she had, though an Ameri-
can, given two sons to the British army, and
lost them both. But the police said “Nearly
eight ounces of bread wasted”; and the
magistrate said. “Two pounds —might have
been £100.” No wonder that nearly every
English letter tells stay-at-home Australians
that they don’t really know we are at war!
* * * *
E. 11. Powell, director of the Northern
Australian Meat Co., which is operating the
works now being erected by Yestey Bros, at
Darwin, blows south and reports progress.
The works have been active since April, but
will not be completed until the end of the
year. The present daily kill averages 275
head of cattle, and export is expected to
begin this month. The finished works will
be capable of dealing with 500 head a day,
and the refrigerators will have a capacity
of 3000 tons or 10,000 carcases. Estimated
total cost. £600.000; and £500,000 of it has
already been spent.
* * * *
Candid admission by timber magnates in
a deputation to N. 8. Wales Government
recently
At the end of 1915 it had been necessary to
notify millers that unless the output was decreased
50 per cent., competition would be so keen that
prices would fall and everybody would lose.
So the bad old law of supply and demand,
the fetich of the Freetrader, got another
one in the ribs.
“Austral”: llow's this for a wheat-shift
mg record? Starting at S a.m., with one
hour for lunch and two smoke-oil’s 0 f Jo
minutes each, three lumpers, Lawson, Lack-
man and Marshall, trucked 1420 bags of
wheat from stack to truck at. Lameroo
( S.A.). They wheeled from 10yds. back
to 24yds. Time of toil, 7hr. 40miu.
Broome (W.A.) has struck a bad patch
The local agents for American buyers of
pearl-shell have recently stopped purchasing,
and pearlers will be hard put to it to dispose-
of the 170 tons now on hand, to say nothing
of the further 700 tons which should be
available by the end pf the year. Up till
lately shell was fetching a high price, and
things looked good in spite of the war.
Now
* * * *
“Melos”: Anyone considered the swamp
ti-tree as a paper-producer? Recently l
got some timber of this species, and, after
removing the weather-worn outer covering,
arrived at a beautifully soft, velvety layer
which appeared to be ready-made paper. I
attempted to count the number of layers
between the wood and daylight, but aban-
doned the task in despair. The vegetable
grows to a height of about 50ft., and is
found in great numbers in most of the
swampy parts of N. S. Wales.
* * * *
“Friar Tuck”: The cheap-jack has lost
his punch. I lately heard one of the craft
haranguing a mob in Pitt-street, Sydney,
and was struck by the poverty of his patter.
What a poor, impotent thing alongside the
Ellis of 30 years ago, whose gorgeous wag-
gonette, with its huge silver lamps, was a
whole show in itself! While Ellis talked
liveried attendants ran along raised
planks, effecting sales with a celerity that
would make any present-day jack burst with
astonishment. Another smart man in the
’SO’s had a windowless shop in George-street
North, and did literally a roaring trade
every week night. The last of the breed who
had any ginger was Cole, the “Bohemian”;
but he gave up the game to stage gore-con-
gealing drama under canvas.
“Cocoanut” : There is a derelict, all that
is left of a fine steamer, drifting in the
near Pacific —burned at sea by a fire in her
copra cargo. Missing is another good steam-
boat partly laden with copra. Reported,
variously, three (probably two) derelict
schooners, apparently burned to the water’s
edge. Identity uncertain, but most likely
in the copra trade. Also, during June, a big
fire occurred at Suva among stored copra
awaiting shipment. It is easy to remember
a dozen similar misfortunes within the last
couple of years. All these to the average
person would seem to show (1) that copra
is a highly dangerous cargo; (2) that the
rules for handling it are either neglected or
inadequate. If we weren’t so English the
sudden crop of casualties might raise sus-
picion that some gentle Ilun sympathiser is
at work. But even if we are “silly, stupid
Pritish,” it wouldn’t do any harm to arrange
for stricter supervision at the loading ports
in the Pacific.
JIMMY-THE-ONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ufa cheri perched upon me knee partakin’ of the
wine;
I'm sit,tin’ in the. estaminet, off toil, be’ind the line,
'.likenin’ back to better days o’ the sea an’ transport
run,
’N’ fellin’ me wench in Austral-French the talc o’
Jimmy-tlie-One.
As T was dozin’ sentry-go the first night out at sea
A bong-tong- bird with three brass bands steps up in
front o’ me;
'E twigged me ’aid ’n’ told me straight to rub me
blinkers through.
Says I: “Righto, me gilded beau ! An’ ’oo the ’ell
are you?” ■
“I’m Jimmy-the-One, the mate,” ’e says, “officially
known as Chief,
A pirate-parson unordained, and lawyer without
brief;
A doctor minus Latin lore, a goods-elerk artisan—
Jimmy-the-One that’s me, my son, the deep-sea
handyman 1”
When ’is toil began ’n’ where it stopped not one of
us could say;
'E seemed to be about all night ’n’ pott’rin’ round
all day ;
When ’e wasn’t ’aidin’ molars out ’e saw the paint-
work prime,
Or slung ’is jaw on sailor law, ’n’ cursed the over-
time.
Whene’er, ’e dozed for forty winks ’e never reached a
snore
But an engineer was feelin’ queer ’n’ rappin’ at ’is
door ;
The cook ’ad burnt the fo’es’le soup; the ship ’ad
fell asheer ;
The mast ’ad sprung, or the leg or lung of a salt
was out o’ gear.
’E spared no grunts along our decks when the ’Eads
were goin’ round,
'X' always showed you a dirty spot as no one else ’ad
found ;
“Any complaints?” ’e roared at us with such a
savage scowl,
That we answered “No!” when it wasn’t so, ’n’
forgot to make our growl.
Ere revelly ’e was up on watch, ’n’ after lights-out
blew
You’d see ’im dodgin’ in an’ out among our khaki
crew ;
Snarin’ a green’orn ’ere an’ there, too slow to douse
’is fag,
’N’ givin’ ’im gyp for the good o’ the ship, but never
talkin’ lag.
When the doctor ailed ’e dosed ’im up, an’ when old
Pills ’e died,
The mate ’e borrowed a prayer-book, ’n’ ’elped. ’im
overside
(With a few mild curses in between when the
hos’n tipped the plank .
Afore ’e got to the vital spot where the carcass
ought ’a’ sank).
Ere dear old Pills went sailin’ west the ailment list
was large,
Hut soon it flopped to dinkum oil when Jimmy-the-
One took charge;
There was no snug bed ’n’ first-class grub linless
you were "down-’n’-out,
Hut a tightnin’ pill for cv’ry ill from swollen ’ead
to gout.
’E taught us drill in case o’ fire, ’n’ ’ow to pull an
oar,
’N’ ’ow to wear our belts o’ cork, ’n’ what we did
it for;
’E showed us ’ow to scrub an’ clean, the cure for
’ousemaid’s cramp,
’N’ a darn sight more ’n we learned afore on duty
at the camp:
Three ’undred jims ’is yearly dot with all baksheesh
an’ loot;
Three ’undred quid for all that yak ’n’ little thanks
to boot ;
’N’ I’ve made more in a week ashore, ’n’ never
razzled ’aid,
By a lucky flip o’ the two-up kip or bankin’ on a
card.
Jim ’ad the faults o’ sailormen, o’ swillin’ more’n ’e
ought;
’E’d a wife at ’ome ’n’ across the foam a brace in
ev’ry port;
’ls parleyvoo was often blue—a liv’ry, caustic cuss,
Yet ever a man o’ the white-man clan ’n’ a plaster
saint to us.
As I was standin’ sentry-go the last cold night
aboard,
Jimmy-the-One steps up to me from out the ailment
ward.
“Here’s physic for the march,” ’e says, “to keep out
snow and fog!”
’N’ strike me blind, if I didn’t find the dope was
made o’ grog!
Oh, life at sea’s la bonze, Marie, *n’ if I’m spared—-
oui-oui !—•
I’ll sling me ’ook ’n’ sign as cook, as skipper or
A.H. ;
But may I roast at Ole Nick’s toast, feather’d ’n’
tarr’d ’n’ curst,
If ever I sign ori the breezy brine an’ ship as James-
the-First.
SOMEWHERE AFLOAT.
JACK HAMILTON.


m . ;
m ■„ v ••
■
■m
& w
-.
i
Ifir
SS
*
'■v
-
v■ - - '•■ V .
* v, .
Wimt9&W&s * >"‘f •*/. ?;"•
.rx........
' - '■ •' ! I - ■
r- -J •*" >-S l\.i ±*• i * ■'{ - "■ 'rt»
■■■'■
m
mm
m
* -
*:■■ ■■•(*:■ .'V>.
m
tmm
‘I t X'M
• •
■
mm
m
'
. -&**+>&.
v ■
V *
St
f ~,
f/j
S<n‘TH fc*
autivf
*
'* f V
HjOODLIGHT
-rmrTEftSr-
These are stirring, patriotic times, and a campaign to flood-
light flags is a winning idea for RECRUITING PURPOSES
at night. The method, though simple, is remarkably effective,
and whilst the initial expense of lighting installation is in
itself so economical, the cost of operation is accordingly low.
Write us for full particulars and quotations.
,Australian- General Electric-0
Wentworth Av Sydney. O? of Queen c Little Collins StMelbourne.


ALL
ORDERS
POSTED
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Hand Mirror,
hand-burnished, plain design, 22/6.
A. Saunders’ Shaving Mug’, pure silver-
plated, hand-engraved ribbon design, opal
glass lining, with brush, 20/-
A, Saunders’ Trinket Box, pure silver-plated,
embossed design, silk lined, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid
Silver Rim Hat
Brush, hammered
design, best black
bristles, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Toilet Set, comprising bevelled-
glass Hand Mirror, Brush, Comb and Manicure Set complete,
in velvet-lined case, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver Shaving Set, comprising Razor, Soap-holder and.
Shaving Brush, in velvet-lined case, £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-15 George Street ( Oppo luuon way ), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar, pure Sil-
ver-plated lid, cut-glass jar,
7/6, 10/6.
FULL 6ISE
A. Saunders’ Head Salts, sterling
silver mount, cut-glass bottle,
5/6.
A. Saunders’ Stud Box,
Silver-plated, ha n d-e n-
graved, silk lined, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Hair
Brush, finest-quality silver,
drawn bristles, “Empire” de-
sign, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Automatic
Shaving Strop, pure Silver-
plated, satin finish, plain
design, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Hairpin Tidy, pure silver-plated,
embossed design, 6/6.
.vrft!
E_#3&
r^
#
-
m IB
EX*
<
■
■ :■?•
Cxr,
St<in 1r ,r
tfl&li 4>
.wr catr
R OAT
Pmtiifes
Sore Thfw&ts quickly
yield to treatment which
removes the cause by killing
me germ.
£van& Sons, Leseher & Webb. ltd..Lontion.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OP PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 23 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, tSTRATQRS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc,
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Dest^ : v f T" -1:
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Pull Details or. Application. • A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrib
Ex grand, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted.
De Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40
engravings/ 1/3. How to Dance, 1/- posted.
How to Wrestle, 1/3. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2 posted. Thurston’s Card
TriCics, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic
Reciter, 1/3 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, lOd. ; AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/3. Fortune-Telling by' Cards, 1/2.
Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The Yoke,
by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and Diversions
with Cards, illus., 1/3. Beauty’s Secrets, post
free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How to Make
Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
12/6. Australian Miner’s Guide, (simple tests
for minerals, 3/9. Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling
Book op Fate (Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-,
post 1/3. How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1.
Will Power (Personal Magnetism), 1/- posted.
Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3/6 posted. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 4/3 posted. Mysteries op
Paris. 1/6. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 12/-. Practical Gas
and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty
(Blatchford), lOd. The Art op Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. &
1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. Britain for
the British, 9d. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How
to train for all Sports, 1/3. Diseases op
Horses, 1/6. French Polishing & Staining, 1/6.
Photography Self-taught, 1/3. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with
Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting & Papering,
1/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 12/6.
Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
ss
m
a
m.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain
language, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of
young and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in con-
sulting their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable
interesting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a
very superior guide to the action of men and women both in
and out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a
bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest
sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged'
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be no«t P d
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
MT- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, &c.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-, posted 1/3.
Camille, 1/6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano,
1/-. Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
nil Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
from Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor (Cures for all
Diseases), 1/3 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date,
1/6 posted. Speeches & Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new) 5/-
Self-Instructor : Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Book-keeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses 1/3
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Adventures of
John Johns, 1/6. Decameron of Boccaccio
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted
Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Woman of Fire 2/-
All these prices Post Paid. ’
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t he fooled into paying more
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SW Established 25 Years
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR %
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
I/O posted. New Thicks with Cards, 1/3. Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
S >, OEMS > complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
L Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 posted. Lovers’ Letter
Writer 1/-. all About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan s Free.masonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
r>ew Edition, 1/6 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
o i ' P? sted - Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
9a 'l a ® ow T 0 Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
dread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
hennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
lure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
l iCTioNARY, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
ray price, 16/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
hoot making and Repairing, 1/3. Dynamos and
electric Motors, 1/3. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 11/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- posted. 200 Old-time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted 9d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, THE BIG BOOK STORE,
Market
Street, Sydney


Amusements.
Hurry Itickurds Tivoli ThrulrPH J.UI.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
fIV O L I THEATRE, SYI) N E Y
PANTOMIME—EXTRAVAGANZA—VAUDEVILLE.
J. C. MACK, supported bv a specially-selected
company, in Potted Pantomime, MOTHER GOOSE.
FAVORITE FOLLIES, led by Miss VERA PEARCE,
GEORGE WELCH, DAISY and SYDNEY, PEGGY
PEAT, BILLY REGO, JEAN KEITH, HARRY
LEEDS, TALLEUR ANDREWS, BILLIE SEATON,
RAY TRAYNOR, NELUSCt) and HURLEY, ALVIN
and ILLIAMS, KELLY and Drake.
“J" I VO LI Til EAT It 12, MIiIJiOUtNE.
ALL STAP VAUT)i:VrLLE.
CAMILLE TRIO, LILYAN AND BOGGS, JOE
REED. CREOLE FASHION PLATE, CLYDE COOK,
THURBER AND THURBER, MABEL MORGAN,
RUTH RUDD. REYNOLDS and WHITE, EDNA
MAY FOSTER. Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Clt I T E It I O N T II EA T It E. SYDNEY^
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinCes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have great pleasure in
announcing the Famous English Character Actor, Mr.
CYRIL MAUDE, in his International Triumph,
G HUMPY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
U| 14 It M A .1 E S T V ’ S. S V l» N E Y."
* ' Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
DOROTHY BRUNTON’S FAREWELL.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS IN AUSTRALIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
SO LONG, LETTY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
Business Notices.
A FREE
Sample Tin
containing a liberal supply of
Oalox will provide the best and
most complete demonstration of
what this unique oxygen tooth
powder can do.
The Oxygen in Calox, which is released
when
f
Me K R
Th 3 OXYGEN TOOTH P3WDHR
is moistened, purifies those unseen
and unknown crevices where decay is
working silently, and effectively re-
moves the danger. This powerful and
active force, oxygen, has an un-
equalled cleansing effect. It neutral-
ises the acid accretions, and enables
Oalox to fill the double purpose of
a tooth powder and a mouth wash.
Get a sample now. Write your
name and address across this ad.,
enclose two penny stamps to
defray cost of postage, and
mail to Calox Department,
Geo. Wills and Co., 480
Collins St., Melbourne.
Calox is procurable
from
I
All Chemists &
Leading Stores
P.23/8/’l7.
A
CALOX
▼▼▼▼▼
Amusements.
THIAN (i I.IC PI.A VS AT
1 THE EYCEUAI,
PITT STUEET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.rn. Pull Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
u NI O N ** ICTII It E TIIEAT It E S
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of tlie world’s best iihns.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. P, Arrington Miller, General Manager.
\t I S I T O It S T O S Y I) N E Y.
® An addressed, stamped envelope will bring to
you by return mail a list of current attractions at
principal Sydney Theatres, etc.
WHAT’S ON? ADVERTISING CO.,
85 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LIE It .MAJESTY’S TIIEATUE, MELBOURNE
*■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 25.
•T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive for SIX NIGHTS
ONLY
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
The Musical Play of Perennial Popularity.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
T IIIO A T It E It OY A 1., '’ mEI.ISOCK.NE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATIILENE MACDONELL
In JEAN WEBSTER’S Full o’ Smiles Play, j
DADDY LONG LUGS.
\£ ING’S THEATRE, . MELBOURNE.
rx Sole Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
Shakespeare’s Immortal Comedy,
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.
Popular Prices.
pitINCESS’S THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE,
BEVI2N DAYS’ LEAVE.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 8/-, 2/- and 1/-.
MX.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
DOROTHY DALTON
in undoubtedly her best,
THE FLAME OF THE YUKON,
and
ANTONIO MQNENO
in a fine newspaper varn,
THE MAGNIFICENT MEDDLER.
Plan at Allan’s.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from II a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening, and Matinees Saturday at
2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
HILDA TREVELYAN in
SALLY IN OUR ALLEY.
FRANCIS BUSHMAN and
MARGUERITE SNOW in
THIS SILKNT VOICE.
Prices as usual.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street. Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Bfest Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —lion. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T, Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. 11. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Enox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,117,000.
* DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ~ £21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
Amusements.
T HE PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
1 SATURDAY, AUGUST 25.
REPERTORY COMPANY.
(Direction GREGAN McMAHON)
in
THE CHARITY THAT BEGAN AT
HOME.
A Comedy for Philanthropists, by ST. JOHN HANKIN.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
All parts of the House may be Booked.
FAULKNER SMITH Direction.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATUE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
pRITANMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
JOIN up, young m;m, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(fIPILLfIRINE
The results obtained from the use
of CAPILLAR] ME as a Mous-
tache-grower are regarded as
wonderful by all who have ex-
perienced its merit. It is a
genuine MOUSTACHE-producer.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 5 Y ° D e S^ e st '
Established over 30 Years.
CARTRIDGES
For Tour Pistol or Revolver^
mnimliuim
REGARDLESS of tke make of your arm,
Remington UMG pistol and revolver car-
tridges give you maximum results. Tkey func-
tion an automatic perfectly and are clean and
accurate. Try tkexn. Catalogue upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMG COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT. Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
Sunburn—lnsect Bites —Chafed Skin.
In any of these cases something to ease the soreness and
irritation is wanted promptly, and it is so soothing to apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
An exce lent healing antiseptic preparation, useful at any time for
cuts burns, scratches, and skin ailments generally.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester England.
After examining 257 of the Latest Models European and American Cars the latest
“MITCHELL”
was designed, and all the new ideas and touches are combined in this master
Besides this, in the MITCHELL is embodied 31 extra features which other
omit. The present Model shows the final results of 700 improvements.
You will find it the Most Interesting Car—the Host Complete Car.
AGENTS—
N.S.W.:
F. H. Gordon & Co.,
133-137 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Janies A. Munro & Co.,
493-503 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Orchard Ralph & Co.,
105 King William St.,
Adelaide.
S
wmmmm
■i
" &
*s>
x
PS|
L... 1
> r :;
m
m
Wi'
m
mm
'■■■■'■■■■■■■■ iSx
AGENTS—
QUEENSLAND:
Queensland Motor Agency
Ltd.,
Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Bradley & Williams,
853-857 Hay St.,
Perth.
TASMANIA:
L. O. Hildyard,
159 Macquarie St.,
Hobart.


HOYT’S PICTURES
Two feaiiuvs every night, 3 hours—l2.ooo feet of film —8 to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to G.
IDEAL FILM PLAYS.—The all-British-made Films, showing one week
before any other Theatre.
METRO-DIiAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
Thone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
i mm
Sfeg'J
—
35
(Throat
DiSgS
o’M*’* l
IS?
iOHOO
free
trial
BOTTLE
Lung
Troubles.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Consumption.
I* or any weakness of throat or chest, or any tendency
to tuberculosis; for a troublesome cough, bronchitis or
any chest affection, the standard, approved treatment is a
course of Angier’s Emulsion. This remedy combines sooth-
ing and healing properties with exceptional tonic and
strengthening qualities. It heals and strengthens the lungs,
promotes appetite, greatly improves digestion, and exerts a
pronounced tonic, invigorating influence upon the genera
health. No other Emulsion is so strongly recommended an
solargely prescribedbythemedical profession, and no other
Emulsion can show so many testimonials to its efficacy-
name and address, ad. postage, and mention this
ANGiER-CHE„\KCAL CO., LTD/, 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N-S-Vv
POLITICAL
POINTS
Boiled down to a dozeix words, the strike
which begun with the N. 8. Wales railway-
men was not over- the wrongs of unionists
but over the rights of the State. One man,
speaking for the strikers, summed-up the
whole matter. “The Government,” he
said, “thinks it is going to ruix this coun-
try !”
S. M. Herald rejoices inasmuch as her
old friends are glad:—
That there will, for a time, at any rate, be no
increase in the tariff, either in the form of a primage
duty or in additional specific or ad valorem duties,
will be received with satisfaction by the whole com-
mercial community. There have lately been heavy
clearances out of bond of many articles in anticipa-
tion of increased duties.
Same old I lerald ; same old importers! Let
us now once more save the Empire by pass-
ing a patriotic resolution that never, never,
.never shall Germany again lay a hand on
Australian trade!
A LAW-ABIDING CITIZEN AND A
PATRIOT.
THE LADY : “Don’t tell me you were wounded
at the tear, because I shall not believe
you.”
PLAUSIBLE BEGGAR : “Madam, I assure you
it happened while I was doing my bit.
I was knocked down rushing around to
yell ’Hear, hear,’ at a Win-the-War
meeting.”
There was a decrease of 1.255,317 in the
train miles-run by the N. S. Wales railways
in the financial' year to June 30, an increase
in working cost of £254,192 and a deficit of
£394,064. The tramways carried 3,28T,940
more passengers, the inci-ease in revenue
being £16.911, and the incx-ease in working
expenses £88,717. In 1915-16 the ti-amways
showed a surplus of £86,292; for 1916-17
the deficit was £18,189. These two enter-
pi-ises represent a capital investment of
£80,316,250. In twd years the net loss has
been £549,750. All this may not be an argu-
ment for the.card system. But it certainly
howls for something.
Matthews (Vic.) put it this way the other
day in the House of Reps. :
The whole of the unrest in Australia to-day and
in other countries is not due so much to the fact
that the workers are against war as to this: that
while they are making sacrifices, suffering and
dying, other men are making money out of the war.
It is very wicked of them. But this paper
hasn’t noticed any Labor member saying so
to any workmen who have struck for higher
wages.
According to Amt-ri-
can papers a German
combine has been
formed with a capital
of £12,000,000 to get
back the world’s cus-
tom for dyes after the
war. This gives a hint
of what is ahead of
A xi s t ra 1 ia, in other
things besides dyes, as
soon as peace comes;
there is to be a fight
for our trade, as well
as other people’s, and
unless we build our
tariff wall high the
local manufacturer is
going to have a colder
time than ever. Inci-
dentally, Britain is
being so hard hit, and
will have to pay so
much to foreign ex-edi-
tors, that she simply
will not be able to buy
imports at tlie old rate.
That means that she
will not be able to pay
as much fox- them; in
other words, if we im-
port. from Britain, we
will have to pay very
heavily in exports. The
only satisfactory way
out is to reduce our im-
ports, which means, of
course, increasing our
own manufactures, or
help to build up the
trade of some foreign
Power. And we have
had a sharp lesson on the folly of that.
“The most orderly strike we have had in
Sydney for 40 years,” someone said last
week. Yes; and also the strike that created
less enthusiasm among the strikers than the
wettest day known in Sydney for 100 years
caused in Siam.
The strike committee in Sydney humor-
ously suggested last week that Judge
Edmunds should inquire into, the men’s
grievances after those alleged grievances had
been abolished by the withdrawal of the card
system. But instead of wasting time inquir-
ing into a grievance then no longer existing,
why not request that his Honor be set to
work on the agreement signed by the Wharf
Laborers’ Union undertaking that “in no
circumstances and on no consideration what-
ever shall work on transports and naval
cai*go ships be stopped”? Or is there a
great anxiety among the strike-mongers thatj
not even Judge Edmunds should inquire into!
the responsibility for breach of that con-
tract?
The larger the majority the more slipshod
the legislation. , In the present. Federal Par-
liament sundry members like. Bruce. Smith
are conspicuous only by consistent inatten-
tion to their duties; and even some df those
who are present every day drop in only for
divisions, lodging their votes with the Gov-
ernment in tlie most mechanical manner. It
is safe to say that, three times out of four
in the voting on amendments in committee,
the Nationalists who hurriedly leave the
bar or the billiard-room to record their
alleged opinions haven’t the remotest idea
of what they are voting on, but merely rush
to reinforce their own push under the com-
fortable delusion that everything the Fuse
does has the blessing of Heaven. This sys-
tem of government by machinery is already
causing murmurs among the more enlight-
ened Fusees, ’ and one gets a protest in
Irvine’s frigid criticism of the War Profits
Tax bill. Still the Fuse will not suffer Ice-,
berg’s eloquence to blow it off the path of
idleness and muddle. Irvine may sound like
the party’s Isaiah, but he is immaterial
beside the Book of Numbers.
“303”:. The habit of appointing public
accountants as sole Royal Commissioners'
calls for sex-ious consideration. Take the nomi-
nation of Mr. Yarwood, for instance, as a
Commissioner to investigate the affairs of
Sydney. Ferries, Ltd. Nobody has a word
to say against his pi’ofessional or personal
character; but is it fair to -the public that
a man wliose living depends upon fees re-
ceived from companies should bold the scales
between an influential company and the pub-
lie? If the Auditor-General’s Department
could not provide a capable man to overhaul
the accounts of the Sydney Ferries, then
public accountants might be employed to do
the work and appear as witnesses before a
suitable Commissioner —that is, one skilled
in weighing evidence. But to take a man
who ought to b<‘ <*i witness, and, though lie
has been living in an unjudicial atmosphere,
inakehim judge and jury, is both unjust
and dangerous.
"Edina” : As The Bulletin says, unless
Australia can turn out ships quickly this is
a bad time to build them. It would be mad-
ness to pay present prices fox-, materials,
etc., unless we can make use of the ships
while war rates are on; and, as one in tlie
trade, I don’t see the smallest hope of doing
this. But there are things we could do.
THE MISSING BARNACLE.
SHE: “I suppose you expect to take the
trade by storm.”
RETURNED BILLJIM ( toy-maker ): “Well,
we’d find it a lot easier if some of the
big guns in Parliament would protect us
a bit until we get a footing.”
At present we have numerous coastal steam-
ers competing unnecessarily against the rail-
ways around the coast. All the vessels of this
class —and there are a considerable number
could, and should, be utilised for inter-
state trade, thus relieving the larger steam-
ers, which could then be despatched oversea
with -our products.
■ The trains being “black,” there was noth-
ing else for it, so
The Melbourne delegates to the Strike Committee
have left for' Sydney in a motor-car.
The Sydney delegates have gone to Melbourne by
car.
Notv how much longer will Higgs continue
to call the vapor waggon a luxury and
demand that it be more heavily taxed?
The 1, Majah put in charge of ah office
i D.A.M.Q.A.G., or letters to that effect) is
much the same all the world over. Higgs,
in his new book on National Economy, tells
l.ow Taft, the President before Wilson,
started a plain business-expert inquiry into
the methods of all the U.S.A. Government
departments. It was found that “recording
and indexing correspondence” cost on an
average $62.98 (over £l3) per thousand in
the War Department. The same work was
being done in the Post Office Department fox-
-52 cents (2s. 2d.). And the worst of it is
that a War or Defence Minister who lets
D.A.M.Q.A.G. slide is trumpeted as a great
success. That’s how Pearce came to be re-
garded as a “most successful” Minister.
From the Reps, gallei-y :-
The portfolio of Thorn in the Side of the Fusion,
temporarily vacant by the' illness of Charlie McDon-
ald, is coveted by the hon. member for the Barrier.
A. certain crudity of thought yet clouds the utter-
ances of Mr, Considine, but there is already an edge
to his discourse that gives his. opponents a feeling
of prickly heat. The other night he got into holts
with Joe Cook, who attempted to bait the young-
man and suffered horribly. And it didn’t restore the
Fusion’s self-respect when Webster followed up with
a gibe and was sneered into silence with, a wicked
allusion to his record as P.M.G. Considine has a
viperish malignancy, and has so far managed quite
well to avoid any clouts from the Chair.
D. Dicker, Labor M.L.A. for Franklin
(Tas.), who was recently fined £l5 for ma jk
ing statements likely to prejudice recruiting
had to face another charge and trial when
the Assembly met. Premier Lee. with the
concurrence of his party, submitted a motion
regretting that Dicker had been found
guilty of disloyalty—-an offence with which
by the way, he had not been charged
Although he repeated his sworn denial of
the statements attributed to him, the House
contrary to Parliamentary custom, refused
to accept his statement, and the motion was
carried. The Opposition defence was that
he denied the statements, and even if he'was
guilty, it was opposed to law and justice
that anyone should be tried and punished
twice for the one offence. A Bill will now
be introduced to remove him from the Public
Works Committee, from which he refuses to
resign, and the Liberal party organ is clamor-
ing for his expulsion from Parliament and
disqualification for future membership; but
it is hardly likely that the latter course will
be followed. .Since his trial Dicker has been
elected at the top of the poll to the local
municipal council; and that is a hint that
the thing can be carried too far.
The cable mentions that Colonial Sec-
Waiter Long urged a Guildhall audience to
“accept the King's advice when he said,
‘Wake up, England!’” This story that the
Royal George, in far-sightedness, gave
England a warning threatens to join the
gallery of national traditions. As a matter
of fact, what the King (then Duke of York)
said (it was on his return from Australia)
was just this: —
To the distinguished representatives of the com-
mercial interests of the Empire whom I have tin-
pleasure of seeing here to-day, I venture to allude
to the impression, which seemed generally to prevail
atfiong their brethren across the seas, that - the old
country must wake up if she intends to maintain
her old position of pre-eminence in her colonial trade
against foreign competitors.
N. S. 'Wales Labor unions and the Huns
both war against democratic government-
one in a civil, the other in an uncivil way.
Germany threatens to exterminate all
Britain’s merchant ships on the waves that
she used to rule, incidentally killing crews
and passengers. Suppose Britain were to
threaten to kill all Germans on the land that
she does actually rule?
Now it’s Australian timber that is
getting a little U-boat Protection. Unable
to import foreign, stuff for box-making, city
factories have turned to the N. S. Wales
North Coast and for softwood which has
hitherto been burned by the million feet they
are offering more than the cutters have
been getting for such hardwood as blackbutt.
On the Coast the new business has already
given employment to, scores of men who for-
merly worked on the (loan-money) .railway.
Which shows how Protection could take the
place of borrowing. And, besides giving men
work, the new industry, instead of costing
interest, is giving the Government a tidy bit
of royalty.
PULLED TO IT BY UNSEEN HANDS
MRS. : “What made you marry me, love!
MR. : “Dunno, sweet. —unless it was that
same incontestable fate that made me
lose fire bob at ‘Domino-knock’ [?]
night.”
From Melbourne in Economy time:
One of our many taxation departments was liyhtnl
by gas, but, owing to disuse during the summer
months, the pipes became choked. The dimness
reported along the thin red-tape lines, and after a
decent interval authority was given for the necessao
repairs. A works inspeetor arrived and decided to
instal a complete new rig-out—pipes, fittings, burner'
and all. This was done; but while the gas plumbers
were putting the finishing touches to their big job,
in sauntered another party from an electric-light
firm to instal their juice. It transpired that the
contract to put in the electricity had been let befon
the order was given to rejuvenate the gas fittings.
Now step along and pay your taxes, please.
RAOLLADE OF FROZEN FEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The earth is sodden with blood and tears ;
. Heaving and writhing in ghastly throes,
'Neath steel that shatters and flame that sears ;
The earth's salt is where the red ranks close;
But little they care for their brothers’ woes
That pass The Terror with mien discreet —
The skulking loafers, the scented beaus;
Theirs is this Ballade of Frozen Feet.
Ready, aye, ready, with windy cheers
And fair lip-service for him that goes;
Treading the measures of nameless fears
To the Maxim’s mirthless adagios.
He flings the flesh to the kites and crows
That some fond woman has counted sweet;
Theirs is the battle of changing clo’es,
Theirs'is this Ballade of Frozen Feet.
Down the length of the coming years.
We will remember the nidd’ring pose,
I’he tale of the hand-hid japes and jeers
And —clear, clean-cut as the cameos —
The riven corpse in tin l bloody snows,
I lie shirker, strolling along the street,
And nothing the shame of tlu-ir sin shall gloze
They of this Ballade of Frozen Feet.
Envoy.
Harder and grimmer the dull rage grows
\\ ith the smirking curs who their manhood cheat.
Shall none of them reap as the wastrel sows,
They of this Ballade of Frozen Feet?
QUEENSLAND.
J. B.. HIGGINSON.


.. . THE . . .
Victor Player Piano
The Banisher of Lonely Moments.
THE PIANO
SOLVED AT
PROBLEM
PALING’S
To the average buyer the Piano problem
is one tbat presents many difficulties. He
realises tbat a Piano is not an every-day
purchase, but an investment tbat requires
expert advice.
We are experts and offer our advice free.
Wby not come in to-day and avail yourself
of tbis offer and obtain
PERFECT SATISFACTION
and LONG WEAR?
Tbe character and Quality of tbe Pianos
and Player Pianos we sell immediately inspire
confidence. Buyers bave no difficulty whatever
in selecting a good, reliable instrument from
our superb stocKs. Grands, Uprights and Cottage
Models; also Player Pianos unequalled in their
various grades for Tone, Value or Musical
Effectiveness.
Catalogue and particulars free. Please write
for them to-night.
We sell on
Time Payment
W. H. Paling & Go. Ltd.,
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle and Lismore
Cut Pown^ 1 Expense?
A REMARKABLE FEAT
BY OXY-ACETYLENE
is demonstrated by the illustration, which shows how an old and worthless boiler, forty yeai
of age and of enormous dimensions, was cut into small pieces and carried away from a
confined situation in the basement of a printing works. The whoie
the most difficult of situations, was finished in two days. Without
the work would have taken weeks, and the whole of the printing machinery and plant would
have been idle and disorganised for weeks in excavation and dismantling work.
EVERY ENGINEER and all interested should write in for free catalogues, giving
pictures and detailed description of this and other remarkable engineering achievements. Iht
total length of cutting done in the two days, by one man was 144 ft. Gin of a single
thickness of lin. plate, and 18ft. Sin. of the double thickness of -bn. plate. £
THROUGHOUT GREAT BRITAIN, AMERICA AND THE CONTINENT the
OXY-ACETYLENE process is being more extensively used day by day for cutting up
iron and steel structures, such as old boilers, tanks, bridgework, etc.
Every Australian Engineer should be able to speak with facility and confidence of the OXY-ACETYLENE
Cutting and Welding Process.'
Those workshops which are rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, contractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers,
repair shops, foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.
The Permanent Trustee Building-,
Cutting- up a Cornish
Multitubular Boiler.
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Agents— MELBOURNE: Eyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


Wisdom and strikes are incompatible and
impossible bedfellows, as is emphasised by
the wisdom inspired by that wise and royal
spirit King George IV. topnotch Scotch.
—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: BICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbyterv, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and >’avy men.
Used since loss CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT. FALLINC EYELASHES. WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “ Singleton's ’ —refuse all substitutes.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DQG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Shaving with an old-fashioned
razor is nothing but a habit.
Once try a Gillette and you
would not go back to the old
style for ten times its cost. The
ZZZEZ
NO STR
NO STROPPING NO HONINfI
makes shaving easier, more
comfortable and cheaper.
Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hofifnung & Co., Ltd., Hitt Street,
Sydney.
Gdlette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of
of Internal and External Bleeding 1
after suffering over 40 , v( ‘ ar> -
Made and Sold bv A. MURI*HY,
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Bov, or a Course o
8 Roves £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Dniflfcts.
and Storekeepers throughout tin -a
CHAMPION CURE of the ''’OK'
for BREEDING PILES. Lttab. 1^
%rS£’r«SL, '#. -/*£•*v
* \'Mi ' -i»> *• -'“’■ • - *“•
<-■
fgmMz
tiest
S.B.
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
&arron Falls - ftarron Gorge.
the wonderful hmterland
junshme , Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and scenic .splendour
A Booklet telling all abou.t il
is yours for the asking
/v// in t/ns coupon •-
Aferno
\
AMre-ss.
Dtrecfo
farh* _ . __
v Intelligence & Tourist Bure»“_ .
\ Bnsbane.QUEENSL^y
u
fm
VSv- ■*»£&&*
SksT^S
Wmm't
»^\
SPORTING
NOTIONS
' Sometimes a future Cup winner shows out
prominently at the Caulfield steeplechase meeting m
Aijgust—as, for instance, Uncle Sam, who won the
last race of the meeting in dashing style, or Pat-
robas, who ran second in the same event three years
later. At the recent meeting none of the foremost
animals in the fiat races caused much prophetic
comment, unless the official inquiry re the running of
Colchis (second to Pinkerton) was accepted as a tip.
Colchis, a four-year-old son of Maelgwyn, is a nag
worth considering in good handicap company. But
there are lots of others, and some of them were born
abroad. To think of the Caulfield Cup is to think
of imported horseflesh. The placed three in 1915
were all English-bred, viz., Lavendo, William the
Silent and Cyklon. Last year imported Shepherd
King and Sassanof from M.L. were winners or place-
getters in each of the Cups, whilst St. Spasa, another
English horse, came third in the Melbourne Cup.
With a fresh bunch of imports and Maoriland cracks
on the cards for the coming events, no cautious
punter will pick Australian native nags for the
Spring handicaps until he has heard great tales
about them. Of the foreigners that ran brilliantly
last season Harriet Graham is a fine stayer, likely
to be improved by time. Her sex is rather against
her, of course. The Spring is not the best time for
mares. Still, the book shows that they bloom before
Christmas in some cases.
» * * *
The strike settled racing round Sydney on
Saturday, but of course the ponies had a flutter at
Kensington. For most of the crowd it meant walk-
ing both ways, but they took the exercise cheerfully.
The attendance was a record, the tote receipts made
another pony course record, and Ike had to take his
coat off to grapple with the rush of business. There
were 12 events, nearly 200 starters, and the favorites
went down unanimously. A great day’s sport!
Out of a Sydney suburban meeting that
was knocked on the head by the strike the other day
a point arose of interest to double bettors. It is
whether a man who had backed a double that was
scratched before the meeting was abandoned should
pay. The test is whether the layer had any chance
of losing. He had not. He only thought he had.
As a fielder could not possibly lose money on a race
that was not held, he has no right to win any.
St. Medoc, a horse that cost Sydney
punters a mint of money, is dead. His original own-
ers, despairing of the animal, found a buyer at
900 guineas. He,- too, got full up, and a month ago
sold for £BO. This seems to have preyed on the
moke’s mind. Anyway, he fell over himself, broke
something inside and bled to death. Many a backer
curses his bad luck that it didn’t happen long ago.
There are 30,544 ways of picking the
Epsom and Metropolitan double, and as a method
of getting parted from coin some of - the ways are
as certain as dropping the cash into the dark blue
ocean. After next week has expired there will be a
heavv fall in the number of choices, for a forfeit will
be due, and the last thing on earth some of the
owners would do is to keep their nags in any longer
than they can be got out for nothing. Taking long
bets has a powerful attraction for many punters, and
about once in thp lifetime of one punter in 50 it is
worth while. AS a rule, no more than about a third
of the mathematical odds about a double can he got
when a pair of inconspicuous rough ’uns are selected.
What the dinkum odds about a couple--of the other
sort are is mighty hard to determine. It mostly
turns on how much risk the layer is prepared to
take and how many horses are actually in the picture.
But it would he the fun of the world if the A.J.C.
could be induced to run a double machine at Rand-
wick. Out of that would be extracted the exact
mathematical odds, and this page has a suspicion that
the figures would be talked about more than the war.
* *. » *
“S.T.S.”: “The. uninstructed bettor- must
mostlv Jose, whether he deals with Ike or the tote”
(B. 26/.7/’l7). Yes, but if he deal* with the
machine there is no reason why he should lose more
than a modest percentage, such as every man Is
willing to allow for expenses in fun of any kind.
The tote sees to it that he gets the fair odds, what-
ever they may be, as settled by public opinion, which
knows more than he does. He.may in his ignorance
he hacking a lame one or a non-trier; on the other
hand, he may be on something which is a good thing
because of lameness or unwillingness in the others.
Som - men, not liking to watch a race without having
a trifle on, make a point of backing No. 1 on the
card when they “know nothing” ; the top-weight,
especially in a jumping race, is pretty sure to give
you, at any rate, a good run for your money. A
man once came to me with a mysterious secret for
making money by hacking horses. It turned out to
be, Always take No. 3. His theory was that handi-
cappers “take care of” the two best in sight; then
comes something nearly as good, with a notable ad-
vantage in the weights. No. 3 certainly had had a
run of luck about that time. But if you back it —
or any other number—blindly, year in and year out,
on the tote, you must, with just fair average luck,
lose what the machine charges. It is 10 per cent,
in S. Aus. That is, the small uninstructed bettor
can have half a sovereign on each of seven races, and
stand to pay the reasonable sum of seven bob for
having his interests looked after.
# » « *
The rude remarks made occasionally about
stipes who try to see everything that goes on in a
race through spectacles and field-glasses while ele-
vated somewhere near the finish would be out of
order if the Sydney and Melbourne clubs were as up
to date as some Bananalanders are. Take the racing
club out at Barcaldine. No trouble there about
having an eye kept on the proceedings in the Flying
Handicap. The course is equipped with a motor
track inside the rails, right round. From this
horses, riders and tactics can be viewed in peace an
comfort bv a couple of the stewards while the nags
are in transit. Another great advantage of this
svstem is that the conversation of the young gentle-
men who are steering the prads can be listened to
by the delegates in the car, and. if it is thougnt
necessary a moving-picture specialist may be taken
aboard to produce a potted account of what happened
at the turn.
“Melb” : The William Slack who has just
been fined £lOO by the Hawthorn (Vic.) Bench for
street betting is, I presume, connected with Bmy
Slack, “the Leviathan” of the generation before last,
it was alleged that Billy could neither read, nor
write. The hieroglyphs in his book were deciphered
by Humpy Ward, the barber, who kept his “ledger.
His famous Nimblefoot bet, with Craig, of Ballarat,
is one of the stock romances of the Australian turt.
Billy’s wife kept the Prahran Primitive Methodist
Church going; after her demise it had to shut up.
The hypocrisy of the attitude adopted by
the Commonwealth Government towards sweeps was
shown up in a Melbourne police court last week,
when a man was fined for not including a prize won
in a sweep in his Federal Income Tax return. Ihe
Commonwealth Government declares these sweeps to
be illegal, and declines to forward correspondence
connected with them through the post. Yet it is not
above collecting commission on the prizes.
» * » •
Timms, owner of Green Cap and co., has
not vet collected any of the 2000 guineas he gave for
the Adelaide colt Blue Bolt after the V.R.C. had said
things to the animal's former proprietor. The colt
was started in the Adelaide Guineas on Saturday, and
the nearest Lewis could get him to the front at the
end of the mile was behind two others. The winner
was the Welkin Ally Mareca, from the Hawker
collection. As Blue Bolt was handicapped for
coming events as likely to be the best three-year-old
of his year, it looks as if a lot had been taken for
granted.
Timms had better luck on Saturday at Fleming-
ton, where the Comedy King—Lady Libia colt King-
bier, a half-brother to Lord Nolan, appropriated the
Three-Year-Old Handicap, run over a mile. King-
bier cost 700 guineas as a yearling. He ran only
twice as a two-year-old and was unplaced both times.
He looks all the better for it. Remmon, winner
of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes and Debutant
Stakes, was third. This animal may be further
forward later on. He was giving the winner 2st. 81b.
and Ist. 91b. to Adagio, who ran second and would
have been showing Kingbier her tail if the post had
been a stride or two further on.
» ' * * *
The two-year-olds started on Saturday in
Australia. The first race for the new generation was
run at Adelaide. The winner was a gelding by. St.
Anton from a Pistol mare—imported blood on both
sides.
* * *
“Jimmy”: At a trotting meeting at Rich-
mond (Vic.) the other day Davey Yates, aged 71,
won the Ladies’ Bracelet on Pretty Polly. When he
dismounted he was as fresh as he was before the
race. “Old Davey,” who goes to scale at Bst., has
been connected with the turf for 50 years. With a
nag called Selector he won five races m one after-
noon at a meeting near Charlton (Vic.) 36 years
ago One of the races had hurdles in it. Another
nag of his was Polly Almont. Polly dragged around
a milk-waggon with a load of 30cwt. one morning
and in the afternoon won a trot at Richmond.
Bananaland’s champion Amberdown let
the crowd collapse heavily on Saturday. At the opening
of the Q.T.C. Exhibition meeting he beat Ornato w.f.a.
in the National Plate, the explanation of his having
to be pushed to do it being that he had been loafing
over the early part of the journey. On Saturday m
the Denman Plate he began none too well, but had
charge in the last furlong and looked like keeping it.
Then Ornato came along again, and this time had
the best of the argument. Amberdown would have
to do better than this to win the Epsom with 9st.
61b. on top.
* *■ * *
“J.S.”: The death of owner G. P.
Donnelly, of Hawkes Bay (ML.), recalls the great
difficulty of training Gold Reef’s stock. But for
that the scarlet and white hoops would have been
less disastrous to hackers. Most of the prominent
trainers in Maoriland had a cut at the Gold Reefs
at one time or another, but turned them up in
disgust. It was for this reason mainly that Donnelly
got the name of being a hard man to train for. As
a matter of fact, the old chap was a liberal pay, and
money wouldn’t stop him when he fancied a mare for
breeding purposes.
* ♦ * *
“Jacko”: Jim Cassidy, one of the best-
known old-time sports in the near-western parts of
N. S. Wales, has told his last yarn at Bathurst. He
got to 86. Cassidy, who was always “major”—he
was prominent in the early-day volunteer movement,
—figured mostly on the course and the pitch. He
was in every western team that played the earlier
English Elevens, and was mixed up with Tom
McKibbin, George Bonnor, Charlie Turner and other
6tars. On one occasion, when turf meetings in the
West were meetings, Cassidy’s mare dead-heated with
a Goulburn owner’s property on the Bathurst course.
Thev decided to run again, the Goulburn man addins:
the threat that Cassidy would have to fight him if
he won. Cassidy won. and fought him too —a bare-
knuckle bout among the interested thousands on the
ground. Again he won. Cassidy was among the
principals in John Skillicorn’s famous r.ide to Syd-
ney. Skillicorn, a Bathurst butcher, backed himself
for £l5O to rover the Bathurst-Sydnev road on horse-
back in 24 hours. He did it, getting to the post
nine minutes before time.
Died suddenly on August 10, John
Rushton, secretary to the W.A. Cricket Association,
and in business hours clerk of Perth Local Court.
He was a good citizen of many activities, and
Westralia is a great deal poorer for having him in a
grave.
* * * *
Lieut. E. F. Herring, of Maryborough
(Vic.), lately handed a Military Cross, had been
doing something noticeable in the Balkans. In
1910 he was school captain at Melbourne C. of E.
Grammar; two years later he was Rhodes Scholar.
At that time Herring was one of Vic.’s most promis-
ing tennis players. In 1911 he had a place in the
inter-State match against South Aus., and in ; the
same year at the ’Varsity gained his blue at
cricket and tennis. King Edward’s Horse entice
him from Oxford.
* * * *
11. J. Clayton, resident medical superinten-
dent "of Prince Alfred Hospital (Sydney) f ' J1 ’ the
next five years —he did his bit in the busy days o
Egypt and Gallipoli—belongs to the third generation
of a family prominent in Ma State cricket. Grandpa
Joe was secretary to the N.S.W. Cricket Assoc, in
1859; father J.H.. after watching over junior cricket
for many years, was recently made president of the
senior body; and Dr. H.J. found time to swung a
bat vigorously for Sydney ’Varsity.
♦ * * *
The mammoth share in Balmain’s defeat
of South Sydney by 14 points to nine in N. S. AVales
Rugby League City Cup final on Saturday came from
the boot of the fine hustling forward, R. Miller, who
landed four goals. The two clubs met three times
during the season, and while the matches finished
even in tries (in the last match Souths scored three
tries to two), Balmain’s kickers got the team °ut 01
difficulty. This sort of football is reminiscent of the
days when W. J. Wallace (M.L.) and Dally Messen-
ger and Stan Wickham (N.S.W.) pulled Union
matches out of the fire. Balmain’s premiership and
Cup is the first “double” to one club in six strenu-
ous years. South Sydney 11., however, made up for
the first team’s hard luck by winning the second-
grade premiership and League Cup without the dis-
comfort of defeat during the season.
* * * *
St. Pat.’s again won the schools cham-
pionship at Ballarat, annihilating Ballarat College in
the final match by 177 points to 0. The losers were
never really in the game. During the season the
bhovs hit up 106 goals 70 behinds to 8 goals and
3 behinds scored against them. This school holds
what must surelv be an Australian record for a
single match. A‘dozen years or so back it booted 44
goals 43 behinds to nil against Grenville College.
Since then Grenville has expired.
* * » *
The present type of aero*plane has been
designed solely for war purposes. It is reckoned
that most of the noise will he left behind, greater
stability secured and comfort obtained when air cars
come to be built for ordinary transport purposes.
Cars have already been built to carry 20 persons.
Whatever the future of aerial navigation may be it
is certain that for joy-riding the waggon that
skims along the earth is doomed, and that when the
world gets sane again the spectacle of Ike paying
out behind a cloud after 17 favorites have arrived
in succession is within the region of possibility.
* * * *
Men have got across Australia by boot,
horse, bicycle, motor-ear. The next thing will be
for someone to do it by train, and after that Aus-
tralia will be one of the few countries on earth never
crossed by an aeroplane. For anyone afraid to bet
on the duration of the strike this offers a chance to
lose money—or for some enterprising patriot to get
busy and build a flying cart, and by shooting from
Sydney to Perth make his name memorable for fully
six weeks. -As a sporting venture it looks about the
best thing offering.
* * * *
It was like old times again on Saturday at
Sydney Stadium, a hard, fast scrap in which any-
thing was likely to happen being turned on. The
scrappers were Vince Blackburn, the bantam cham-
pion, and Sid Godfrey, holder of the featherweight
title, and they made war for Godfrey’s property.
Godfrey failed to make the weight, but that didn’t
matter, for Blackburn won, and won well, and
escaped from the premises decorated with the cham-
pionship in two classes. Twice Godfrey’s heavy
wallop had him near the edege, but over the rest
of the journey he had a clear lead. An exciting
seance by two earnest exponents of bash. Blackburn
looks like becoming a dangerous snag for hopeful
neophytes in the days to come.
When this paper went to press last week
it was expecting Llew Edwards and Herb McCoy to
be settling old differences at Brisbane on Exhibition
morning. Edwards tackled influenza instead, and
Eugene Volaire clambered into the vacancy. The
subsequent clash proved that either Volaire is a
better scrapper than he was or that McCoy was a
better scrapper than he is. ’Erb’s long suit is to
get under the other cove’s wing and instal a weighty
wallop wherever there is room for it. But Volaire
wasn’t in a receptive mood, and by conducting
operations his own way managed to plant a stiff
hook on McCoy’s chin in round four that stretched
the Victorian for nine and looked like closing the
matinge. McCoy was reprieved, however, and after
an anxious round or two started wearing the French-
man down. He got the decision at the end of the
section—but what a father of a fright he received
in those first few rounds!
* * * *
Tommy Uren is about the busiest pug in
Australia these times. On Saturday he filled in time
with Harry Stone at Melbourne, and Henry saw to it
that Tommy was kept moving. The verdict went
against America, each side to pay its own costs.
* * * *
“Fram” : Include me in the argument
about extinguishing a candle with the wind of a
speedawav bullet. I belong to a miniature rifle-club,
using .22 long-rifle cartridges, and it is a common
amusement to have a sweep on this very thing. A
lighted candle is placed 25yds. distant, and each
competitor is allowed one shot. If in the first round
no one douses the glim, another round is fired.
Should more than one do the trick, the one who cuts
off most of the burning wick without touching the
wax is the winner. To cut a piece out of the body
and so snuff the dip is disqualification. Bullet after
bu/llet will pass through the flame without doing
more than cause the light to flicker from side to side.
It requires a good eye and a steady hand to bring
home the stakes.
“Montalcx”: “Liles” (B:~26/T/’17i
understood me. The candle-extinguishing L i® lB '
performed, not with a bullet, but with a Y ck
charged blank-cartridge, which produces ™ ■ 'k
that increases in area as it lessens in L air ' n ! s i l 1
distance from the muzzle. Various other « wi i l '
bullet-shoots are worked with a shot-charge th^
ridge having a nose of cardboard, shaped
leaded so as to appear a bullet when beini, . k '
tatiously loaded into the firearm. As for ow? 1 '
the ash off a cigar and breaking a glass hall n?
man’s head, the “artist” who enlightened me 1" 1
these matters was himself able to perform hntv
feats in reality, and therefore held that h • *
justified in using the trick-methods to avoir! !? s
ever-present risk of killing the assistant. lle
* * *
“P.W.” : “Tam O’Shanter,” on the van-h,
speed of guns (B. 9/8/’l7), forgets that ammuffif
however well made, varies considerably. '
cartridges are generallv tested over a GOft." raiw-e . ,
standardised, as nearly as possible, to an -
velocity of 1050 ft. per see. over that range ln'fP
U.S.A. they take their velocities over a 120ftAtLz
and the average variation is about 20ft per’'«w ■'
940 ft. per see. The generally received opinion
the experts is that it makes little or no <W Pl '
what gun the cartridge is fired in. provided the bar™
length is the same. “Tam’s” suggested test, i. e a '
ing over a tarpaulin, would only prove the variitT
in ammunition by showing the different amounts
unburnt powder. And that is not the fault of\|
gUn ’ .
“Antiquity”: How long will powder con
tinue explosive? Not long ago while drerteir,,
Albany Harbor the suction-pipe brought Up »■
shells very much sea-eaten. An officer from awa
ship in the port explained that they were Armstrong
made about 1876. Later, requiring a heavy sinker
I gave a bewhiskered mariner one of the missile:’'
and in order to more effectively secure it to a line
he knocked a hole in the broad end. The explosion
blew his whiskers half-way to Kimberley.
* * *.*;.!
“Nimrod”: Re shot-gun velocity, I can
hardly believe that “Tam O’Shanter” (B. 9 /8/’l7 l
has tried his paper-pad experiment, or he wouldn’t
have mentioned it, because it would prove him wrong
every time. A similar device, the Pettit pad, is
use all the world over for testing ammunition, and
it works well in ascertaining relative velocity.’ To
find the absolute velocity requires an apparatus gener-
ally beyond the reach of the amateur. Out of tens
of thousands of tests, the plain fact emerges that
between one gun and another there is no appreciable
difference in velocity, except that barrel length
affects it a fraction. Ammunition is the variable factor.
The best nitro-powders will give a muzzle velocity
of 1200 feet per second. Black powder will seldom
give over 1000, but it is more uniform. Shot carl
ridges ara subject to all sorts of irregularities for
which the gun often gets the praise or blame. Son*
gunmakers used to think that the amount of “choke"
affected the velocity, but the famous “Field” trials
long ago dispelled that idea.
R. G. Williams, killed in action with
Maoriland forces in France, was a Wanga-
nui boy who passed through Cambridge a
few years ago and became an Anglican
curate in the Cold Country. A breakdown
in health sent him back to Maoriland, where
he was farming when Bill began to mis-
behave in Belgium. Williams enlisted as pri-
vate in the earliest M.L. expeditionary force
and had his first fighting against the Senussi
Going to France as sergeant he came through
the big Somme disturbance unhurt, and won
a lieutenant’s stars last March.
Noxious trades were under discussion, ami
a councillor made reference to a new license
appeal then pending. “Look here, Mr,
Mayor.” interrupted Cr. Malaprpp, with in-
dignation. “isn’t that matter sub-juicy!"
“You’re right.” said his Worship, “juicy and
sub-juicy ! Next business!”


How’d You Like to Get
aT Hr asking'— l ■ t
tf.'t
trom a man smaller than yourself? It would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience—an experience that many a man has gone through, much to
his sorrow. Make no mistake about it, size does not protect a man when
he is called upon to defend himself.
The man who KNOWS the art of scientific boxing has it “all over’’ his
opponent. •
Don’t lOU run the risk of getting a sound thrashing from a man
smaller than yourself—think of the slurs, the insults, that would be hurled
at you from all and sundry as the result of such an experience. Why
not then learn how to defend yourself—how to fight your way out of a
tight corner—and so prove to your fellow men that you are a man
always to be reckoned with —looked up to—and respected ?
I Teach Boxing by Post
—teach it in a thorough, scientific and practical manner.
Now don't get the idea that I teach you only the
theory, because that’s not so. Under my guidance you
will learn how to make all the “hits,” “stops” and
“moves” of the world’s most scientific boxers.
You’ve no excuse for remaining crude and inexperienced,
a good target for the first “bully” who torments you.
Let me make you a cool, determined, scientific boxer,
with a substantial punch and effective guard —a manly
man, w r ell able to look after himself and win the respect
of others.
Write your name and address across this advertisement
and post it to me, and I will send you my interesting
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which tells
all about my methods, terms, etc. Please send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
"The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
670 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
■taMPi
If H©T SHOT I
battery
for motor ignition
-^stsaass??:
For Heavy
Current Needs
COLUMBIA Batteries can be
used as the sole source
of ignition current for battery
systems or as an auxiliary source
in connection with magnetos. They
are easily connected in the circuit.
Columbia
HOT SHOT
Batteries
, are multiple-cell unit batteries partic-
ularly adapted where a number of cells
I are needed. They may also be used for
I ignition, for starting, for auxiliary, for
| emergency and for lighting. Being
moisture-proof, they are especially
adaptable for motor boat use.
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are
packed in moisture-proof cartons and
| guaranteed to give satisfactory results
whatever climatic conditions may be.
Dealers : Immediate deliveries
can be made. Secure Cata-
logues and Terms from your
dealer or from us:
National Carbon Company
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address: *'Carbon Clev aland"
Reliable Dry Cells.
Especially Manufactured to withstand
AUSTRALIAN CLIMATIC CONDITIONS.
Long Life. Low Internal Resistance.
“R.S.C.” (Blue Label), for BELLS,
TELEPHONES, MEDICAL BATTERIES,
etc.
l£ volts, size 2lin. x 6in. Price 2/-ea.
“RAMSAY” (Red Label), for IGNITION
and all other work requiring HEAVY
CURRENT and QUICK RECUPERATION.
1J volts, size x 6in. Price 2/9 ea.
l| volts, size 3in. x 7in. Price 3/11 ca.
If_your Dealer does not stock, send for
Pamphlet 8.30 to
Ramsay Sharp S Co. Ltd.
217 George Street, SYDNEY.
Indent and Trade quotations for the above, also
for “COLUMBIA” and “HOT-SHOT” Batteries
supplied on request.
Ta/vks
POPULAR
THE ENEMY
OF BRITISHERS’
ENEMIES.
SHELL
THE SPIRIT’’
OF THE WAR.
HE
m
S
1
News of the Latest
Developments in
Motorcycle Construction
The
1917 Catalog
Send a Postcard
for a Copy
T £T this new Indian publication show you to what perfection the
L* Motorcycle has attained In its pages pictured and described
are the new Nineteen-Seventeen Indians—the wonderful new Light
Twin, a revolutionary light-weight—big “ Powerplus,” improved and
more than ever the world’s motorcycle masterpiece —the 5£ h.p. Three
Speed Twin—the luxurious new Sidecar Me del—the sturdy Indian
Delivery Van. A copy is reserved for you. Write for it a Postcard
will do —ask for “ Catalogue D.”
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty.
Ltd 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd., 156 Castlereagh
Street
ADELAIDE : Eyes 4 Crowle Ltd.. 75-79 Plrle
S reet.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle 4 Motor Agency
Ltd Adelaide and Creek Streets.
LAUNCESTON : John King 4 Sons Ltd..
Charles Street,
PERTH : Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency.
Hay Street
8421
EDGAR ALLEN & C' L f ®
st«tt **<mm ,
SHfrncio
mmfmmamamßmmmMmsm
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
NATIONAL
BENZINE
The next time you have occasion to replenish your Benzine
Supplies ORDER NATIONAL BENZINE.
You’ll quickly find a greater satisfaction in the “mile after
mile” consistency of its unmatchable energy and “drive,” its
cleanliness, its quick “pick-up” in any atmosphere, and
the decided economy that results from its greater power.
PUT THE “NATIONAL’’ SPIRIT TO THE
TEST YOURSELF.
Obtainable all Garages n and Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Look for the
Trade-Mark
Labe!
fao
o—o— o-
IN
KJ
JAMES WAROLE & CO
Victoria Square, Adelaide
On Every
Tin
You Buy.
0
181
0
Wi
'wv
0
«si
1011
m
D
&
for
Gillette
Blades
yU\ ingenious patent
spiral leather
covered rollers...
Theperfect dia&?nal
principle of
St roppmffi r Gi\Mte
blades f;
No skill is required
Tbn turns equal
22 inch strop
Ik
Ask dealer
to demonstrate
Howfhe novice
matches the
expert
IF UNPROCURABLE WRITE TO—
BOX 1003 G.P.0., SYDNEY; or BOX 14 G.P.0., AUCKLAND, N.Z.


Now is the time to buy
THE ALL-BRITISH
ONOTO PEN!
BRITAIN
leads i i)
I' oun tain
The
Pen that
does not
teak, that
fills itself
md cleans
itself in fil
ling, is Bri
tish made
It i 8 t 1) e
Onoto the
pen that ne-
ver scratches
or splutters
that writes
readily and
snio o t h 1 y,
and is always
ready to
write. Get an
Onoto now.
It is the best
pen made in
Britain o r
anywhere
throughout
the world,
insist on the
Self-Filling • • Pn«ra
Safely Fountain IT^3l
PRICE, 14/6, and pwards. of all
Stationers. Jewellers and Stores
Manufacturers— Thomas de la Roe
& Co. LTD.,Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
Managing Agents—Norman Baker &
Longhurst. York Street, Sydney.
Aik for Onotolnk the best for all Pens
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
'pHE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane; or
193 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
A Perfect
Custard.
(The NAVY BRAND.)
%
$
Q
&
$Th
POWDER
vanilla j
Manufactured by
J. PARRY & CO*,
Pure Food Specialists, SYDNEY,
A, M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.,
BRISBANE,
Sole Queensland Agents.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
/X from any RANGE \q
TMt
SHIRTS COLLADS&PYJAMAS
SECURE THE POSSIBLE FOR
THE QUALITY SHIELD.
Men who recognise the
importance of cut. fit and
finish in Shirts, Collars
and Pyjamas, find their
ideal in PELACO The
workmanship and care
exercised in making
PELACO garments, has
resulted in producing a
quality far above the
average, and better
than the average
best.
4
%
> u » aiv:
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
jsgnggg lUnTmnni) v -
THaNHmi RE«.US.MXKEfc.
Your Factory Roof
should be fire-resisting inside and out, giving you a lower
| insurance rate and protection against flying sparks. It should
be permanently weatherproof and practically repair-proof.
For such a roof we recommend the use of the genuine
Ru-BER-QIQ
COSTS MORE - YVEARSLLONGEFL
ftll-BER-OIQ is the ideal roofing
because it meets the most exacting
requirements. It has the endorse-
ment of underwriters and fire de-
partment officials the world over
as a safe roofing.
And ftU-BER-OIQ is permanently
weatherproof and water-proof, and
seems wear-proof. Foundries, rail-
roads and chemical works employ
it under conditions where sparks
and fumes would soon destroy
other roofs. It contains no coal
tar or asphaltum oils.
Hundreds of |SU'BER-OIQ Roofs
are still watertight after more than
20 years of hard wear.
The U. S.- Appellate Court has
enjoined imitators from using the
name “Rubberoid or any similar
name as the trade name or brand
of their roofing.
We sell the genuine, with the
“Ru-ber-oid Man” (shown above)
on every roll. We have it in slate
gray and in Tile Red or Coppe.
Green.
Come in and examine it.
A. YV. SANDFOBD & CO., LTD., A
K. KIC'U & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Syd
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO. LTD.,
delaide.
n ey.
Melbourne.
m
e>v
• V " v '
Si
Xj
S',
Eight-hour Art Union Sporjl-
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 3, 1917.
Ist Prize, value £650. 2nd Prize, value £<*
3rd Prize, value £2OO.
And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1917. TRY IT. First Prize in 191®
by Mrs. C. Lougton, Shipley, Blackheath, N.S.W.,
modest outlay of ONE SHILLIM*.
ARTHUR IV. YAGEK-
Trades Hall, Sydney.
TICKETS FROM FOCAL AGKXT.
The Silvekton Tramway Co. :
- Dividends on
Actual Capital Written Heal
Dec., Profits. (£413,800). Off. Reserves.
1905.. £78,528 127 p.c. = £59,342 £20,000 £'225,788
1906.. 81,931 127 ~ ~ 59,342 10,000 238,377
1907.. 108,478 158 ~ „ 74,177 10,000 262,678
1908.. 93,518 169 „ „ 79,122 1,031 276,043
1909.. 95,GST 169 ~ „ 79,122 11,400 281,208
1910.. 116,461 169 „ 79,122
1911.. 143,216 214 ~ ~ 100,000 14,060 347,703
1912.. 144.542 214 ~ 100,000 7.106 .385,139
1913.. 148,918 2671 „ „ 125,000 8,228 400,829
1914.. 112,142 214 „ 100,000 14,343 398,628
Written off renewals account, £20,000 378,628
1915.. 94,980 187 p.c. = 87,000 3,820 382,288
June,
1916.. 25,317 214 „ „ 50,000 357,600
1917.. 75,540 214 „ „ 100,000 4,098 329,047
By land this is something like the Manly
Steamship Go., is by sea : it enjoys a through
traffic, it has no branch services to build up
and nurse, and practically every train it
sends away is a full train. Its 33 miles or
so of line forms the connecting link between
Broken Hill and the S. Australian railway
system at Cockburn ; and the rolling stock
runs right through, under an old agreement
by which (unless the terms have been
varied) the S.A. Government provides live-
sixths of the stock used on the S.A.-Broken
Hill narrow-gauge service and the eo. the
other sixth. The line cost very little to
build, there being no engineering difficulties,
and from the outset it was profitable beyond
the wildest dream of Peter MacGregor and
the other promoters. The subsequent history
—or some of it —is shown in this little sum-
mary : —-
1886.—-Co. registered; paid capital '£46,800, plus
£16,000 in promoters’ shares.
1888. -First stock watering; £41,860 capitalised
(two shares for every three).
1889. Second stock watering: £17,433 (one in six).
Third stock watering, £15,273 (one in
eight).
1890. Fourth stock watering, £27,473 (one in five).
1891. -Fifth stock watering, £32,967 (one in five).
1910. -Sixth stock watering, V 52,194 (one in four).
So we get this: —
Capital actually subscribed.. £46,500
Promoters’ little lot . . 16,000
Profits capitalised .. .• 187,200
Total alleged capital ..£250,000
And, after all, though the co. has done so
wonderfully well, it is just as difficult for
Broken Hill to state an effective case against
it as it would be for the Manly people to
make out a case against their ferry co.
Hence, though often vaguely threatened, the
eo. has never had to do much real fighting;
and when there is talk of expropriating it,
it replies that Parliament long ago provided
for that —the State can take over the whole
outfit by paying 21 times the average profit
of the preceding seven years. Which would
mean, if the right were exercised just now,
paying about a quarter of a million for per-
manent-way, plant and stores and two mil-
lions and a quarter for goodwill!
Still, shareholders have to face this prac-
tical certainty: either the State will some
day acquire the undertaking for very little
mqre than the actual value of the permanent
way and rolling stock, or the co. will have
State competition which will make the busi-
ness hardly worth having. What can happen to
a co. in this connection the liquidator of the
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd., can tell.
That concern found that the Government,
after carrying out a rival scheme, assessed
local properties, and thus practically created
for itself a monopoly; whereupon the throt-
tled co. grabbed what it was offered to go out,
and went out. The position so far as the
Silverton Tramway Co. is concerned is that
the N. S. Wales State railways are creep-
ing westward beyond Condobolin, while a
line has been run out eastward from Broken
Hill to meet it; and though the collapse of the
loan market has put the speedy completion
of the line out of the question, it will be
finished some day, if only for strategic rea-
sons. And when it is finished it is certain
that the 30-odd-mile link between Broken
Hill and the S. Aus. border cannot be left in
private hands.
The past year’s profit has been affected
by “rises in wages and heavy costs of re-
pairs and renewals” ; and probably for that
reason the directors have plucked up courage
to furnish a working account. Revenue was
£101,493 ; and a shade over 44 p.c. of this -was
available for profit and such depreciation as
was not covered by repairs and renewals.
It is impossible to feel very sad over the
tribulations of a railway eo. which can hang
on to 44 p.c. of its gross revenue. And
its cash position matches the rest of the
story. Apart from permanent way, rolling
stock and jfiant. it had £200,498 of assets
(mostly liquid) on Juno 30; and it ootfed
something under £37.000, including one or
two small doubtful items.
* * * *
From the undertaker —
Owing to the operations of the Bananalund
Workers’ Compensation Act, which took from ns all
our accident business (the source of our chief
revenue), we have had to liquidate (lie Toowoomba
Co-op. Insurance Co. It is only another example of
the Government, crippling business without benefiting
the public. For years wo allowed our policy-holders
a bonus of 33J- p.c. on their premiums, and I am
certain the Government office will never approach
that, even with the higher rates it is charging. lam
pleased to say that the liquidators were able to give
to the shareholders 14s. 4d. for every 2s. paid in as
capital. It will be remarkable if the Government can
do likewise, in face of all the failures recorded in
various State enterprises.
The Cuming-Smith fertiliser people are
opening up a pyritic mine at Chester (Tas.)
to work in conjunction with the super-
phosphate factory at Yarraville (Vic.). The
old Oonah mill at Zeehan has been dis-
mantled, and has been carted to Chester, as
well as a plant specially designed.
Another vote of thanks to the Kaiser.
When the war began Australia could not
roll a zinc plate, and it looked as if the
W.A. mines, which eat up a lot of zinc shav-
ings in recovering cyanided gold, would be
hard hit. Grabbing the chance given by the
war. a Perth firm put in a plant, and now
it rolls plates not only for Australia but
for S. Africa as well.


After the Day’s Work-MEGGITT'S MEAL
/
*
«-c
%
/J
$
jeSP-'-
G
<r.
K
b^vj
tv
/i
fZ.}
nV
«V^
./
G
0*
U^l
/
u
rS»
ww
For Horses,
Calves,
Cows,
Pigs,
Sheep,
Poultry
\
there is no
Better Food.
Farmer Whitelaw Speaks Highly of MECGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
AT AT? WmwrAw Hill Tod Avrites: “Will you kindly further repeat order of Linseed-Oil Meal. Like a lot of others,
it teTto Jers.ade’me to try your Linseed Ileal. After aedual experience I can say without hesitation that,
!‘ ° Ards°horses and cows, I have not met its equal. Served out m small quantities it gives excellent results. Not only
do I find it economical, but once the stock taste it-well you cannot get them out ot your way. My experience at feed-
ing times is that the animals cannot get it quickly enough.
Fr„ m all Stores or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.,
hrom all bt . P Perth- F W Heritage 6c Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
Melbourne ; Wm. Adams cc wo., rcim, •
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
Sydney,
N.S.W.


FISHER'S PHOSPHERINE
i
3
wm
j y
WV\*
a
FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
Is appreciated by
All Who Use It
[g Its Merit in Cases of IS
Nervousness, Neuralgia,
Indigestion, Acidity,
Rheumatism, Backache and
Headache is proved by the
GRATEFUL TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Dear Sirs,—ln a very few words—though volumes
may be written —1 wish to praise your wonderful
Phospherine. For nervous headaches and indigestion
I find it a valuable remedy and most excellent for
rheumatism, (Mrs.) L. Middleton
Thii preparation has been manufactured by Fisher & Co. foe
the past fo«;ty yean.
1-
I ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
“ per bottle, four times the quantity
2'6
CHEMISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
F. 137 P.
THE DEAF
HEAR! .
I Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing' Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Soientlfio Hearing' Instru-
ment— the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Moars Far Phnno many times as efficient
(nears Lar rnone and povverflll ag the olt]
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticnlars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
Grey Hair —Home
Remedy.
An old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has only
to get from the chemist two ounces of con-
centrate of tammalite and mix it with three
ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair with
a small sponge for a few nights and the
greyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula. — Advt. [2
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following- firms.
Write or call for particulars.
R. R. Russack, 377 a Elizabeth fSt., .Syd-
ney; Philip Erankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Etd., Pirie
St., Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300
G.P.0., Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto.
Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
If any illustration, appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
DOStOCfiL
SHOES are exquisitely cool and light in the
hottest weather, yet none of your dowdy,
canvas shoes either but smart, elegant, in
the fore-front of fashion. Most Australian
women will have sighed for such shoes, and here
they are in the latest shipment of Bostocks. The
model illustrated is delightful even in picture
form But think of it 4n reality, a light, grace-
ful shoe of finest moire, built in that new, short-
fronted shape so thoroughly French, and made
with a daintv Louis heel. If ever there was
an ideal shoe" for smart wear in hot weather, it
is certainly this one. Then for other tastes,
there are other shoes equally charming in this
Bostock selection. The shoes are unmistakable,
and have the name Bostock stamped on the soles.
Bostock No.
P645S
- i
i
A
a
None genuine
u nless stamped
Do not miss the latest Rostock ship-
ments now on view at the leading stores.
This is the Pen
for Active Service
—because it stands the racket .
The “Swan, like a rifle, is made
true and sure. The ink magazine is
ample and, at command, the pen is
ready for duty immediately. There is
no misfiring, and there are no parts liable
to derangement. When llu.d ink is un-
obtainable the magazine may be charged
with ink pellets for use with water.
Send one to your soldier friend. It will make wri-
ting easier and encourage him to send more letters.
WA §|”
IWAH
SOLD KY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Standard Pattern with Safety Pattern with
Slip -on Cap, from 12/6 Screw on Cap, from 15/-
Illustraied Catalogue Post Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston Street, S.E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd Sc Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
" THE SWAN
• r SAEP-TV SCREW CAP
MACE IH t V.-AN
4%
-1
Australian Branch: J. A,. BU'RKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
r of
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 ,» „ £5
£ 8 15 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ £5O
£B7 lO 0 „ , £lOO
£875 00 „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from (fate of purchase,
rtificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all R»nks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia ?4fA March, 1917
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character') will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
(t. Woolhouse : Well, he’s not a new species
of hog; the sties are full of them....Culex: Seems
a futile proceeding, but give him his due —Hughes
had nothing to do with it....Te Maori: That; yarn
is as stale as last year’s 10ver.... Lee-0: Not what
The Bulletin* wants, but you might be able to place
it elsewhere. Returning. .. .John Quill: “As far as
I know, the story about the cockatoo has never seen
print before.” Well, no man can know everything.
W.J.H.: “Well Broke” too thin John H.:
Nothing in any of them. .. .Leu Diba: Thanks, glad
to hear that the death of our cannibal brother
Bushimaia was exaggerated. .. .P. Enterprise: All
recorded stories are against you... .W.J.H.: It’s bad
luck. All sorts of dodges have been tried, but all
sorts of artful dodgers are on the look-out. Then, ot‘
course, there are the losses of mails J.K.8.:
Surely there must be a market for goods of that
kind! Tell us how we can help... .S.T.: “Dexter’
yarn fumbles and halts and tangles itself from the
first sentence... .N.J.: If copy is to be returned you
must send stamps at the time, otherwise it may
mingle with the dust of dead hopes. Unused para-
graphs cannot be returned... .Phill: Pretty dull job
you made of it C.11.T.: Verse hopeless A.J.8.:
Can’t find a gleam in it....A.R.G.: Heavy-weight
mirth.... Black Bonnet: Doesn’t make a yarn....
D.K.: “’Ero” no good. You’re in’too much of a
hurry Mulga Jim: An old yarn, and not a cheer-
ful one, done .in bad verse... .A.Z.A.: Not for us.
E.B.H.: Dismal story on conventional lines....
D. : Why put a Maori yarn in a setting suit-
able for a tale of Plantagenet England ?.... A. 8.C.:
“Stowaway” won’t d 0... .G.F.G.: Of no interest....
M.B.P:: “Sleepless Night” no u5e....R.G.: “Henry”
doesn’t quite work... .H. 8.: The red hair is all
there is in it... .1.M.P.: Not force enough... .E.C.:
“Garden” doesn’t ring true... .M.8.J.: Not up....
R.D.8.: Avoid blank verse B. and A.: A lot of
assertion without a hint of proof or suggestion of
knowledge of the subject. The writer of the
article you mention is an Irishman, and an Llstei-
man at' that; but Ulster, with all its brag, didn’t
enlist anything like as well as Australia or the
other more or less British countries... .A.C.: If
it’s to be verse, make it verse. We don’t like sawn-
off prose J.G.: That alphabetical stuff gives us
a headache... .A. 8.: Not up.... J.A.P.: Not oui
style. Sorry you have never been out of the
“colony,” seeing that it hasn’t been a colony for
the last 17 years J.H.: None of them up
Blank: They won’t d 0... .R.F.G. r Verse no use.
Don’t write on two sides of the paper if you value
your health... .L.P.J.: Pointless... .M.M.: “Birth
of Spring” is pretty, but Spring has been born so
often in verse that it heeds to be something more.
N.B.: But you only repeat in poor -verse what
we’ve been saying in cold prose for months....
E. : Cow yarn doesn’t work Smoothly.... Bill:
“Delusion” straggles off the track J.G.: It’s
stirring stuff. Sample:—
Then Widow Brown told him
Of the doings of her soldier sons.
“Oh,” said Joe, “I’ll go and help them,
And capture some German guns.”
So, down the recruiting depot he goes,
Determined as can be,
The doctor examines, and passes him,
And he joins in the infantry.
So let us hope that he'll safely come home,
After nobly doing his duty,
And settle down, to something good,
In Australia, home and beauty.
...A.G.J.: One held for inquest... .E.C.: Moves
too heavily P.M.T.: Not enough skill Rufus:
On the sample sent, you have some distance to go.
S.M.C.: “By Night” doesn’t contain any idea.
. ...G.R.H.: Didn’t find much “quiet” in the song.
... ,C. John: You say :
The stars of life are gleaming *
As, time is falling rife.
To end, by brightly beaming.
The hate of man and wife.
The only criticism we can offer is:—
As sure as cats and thunder
Combine, beware with scenes,
We pause and ink our wonder,
Dry-guessing what it means.
.E.M.C.: No use.... A.W.L.: Poor stuff....
E.8.L.: “Joan of Arc” verse doesn’t thrill M.K.:
Not up....G.1t.: Fair verse of the trick sort, but
doesn’t call for print Stoker: Poor idea; thin
verse; bad rhymes... .C.V.J.: Yes... .Etudiant:
Don’t know.... Benno: “Three Star’ didn t admit
anything of the kind. All he was concerned about
-was that many a good non-com. is lost because some
men won’t try for promotion (and responsibility),
since thev are as well paid w ithout those things
as they would be with them.,.. One of Them: Cost
us about £lO,OOO-if we couldn’t prove every word
of it. And how could we do that without putting
you in the box?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.M.: Where did Lazarus buy his checked shirt ?
L.: Goldstein’s horse trots thankfully into the tomb.
J.B.: Too stiff and wiry G.M.S.: The joints
of your soldier are wrong. .. .Telewag: A design for
a frieze 0n1y... .E.K.: Badly-stuffed waxwork
figures Niv: Waste of time Engine: You’re off
the rails M.: Perhaps; but the gentleman on the
cliff is dangerously placed... .Joseph P.: Immature
work; you are hoping too soon. But don’t stop....
W.W.8.: Fruity old echo of London Paunch
S.A.: It’s one of those obvious ideas that were seized
and torn to pieces about an hour after the first news
of the tanks was published.. . .S.E.: Obvious joke,
uncertain drawing. .. .H.R.P.: Don’t scratch....
P. 8.: The stout lady makes too many misprints
P. 8.; Ugly wire-netting effect... .E.V.E.: Crude and
lacks individuality. .. .D.R.M.: Take your egg away.
And set fire to your wooden railway porter....
E.P.J.: One of the oldest Hibernian jokes.. . .N.K.:
Fuzzy drawing of little interest. .. .C.F.: Two-women
like horses and a rude remark. Why should we
publish two women like horses?...-J.R.S.: Cramped
little sketches. No market for them, of course. But
they are good practice. .. .D.L.A.: Are they early
woodcuts of Woolloomooloo ?
A mighty soldier before the Lord lies
under an old weather-beaten monument at
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.). The inscription
reads: —
Sacred to the memory of Major James Crummer.
Late Her Majesty’s 28th Regiment of Foot. He
fought at Copenhagen, Busaco, Badajos, Campo-
Mayor, Albuera, Vittoria, Pyrenees, Nivelle, Nive,
Bayonpe, St. Palais, Orthes, Lambega, Toulouse,
Quatre-Bras and Waterloo.
Salute!


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
iX;V- : 'v‘y .( ■'
f ' • f
sxs ,
/// - -<
/ / # />• ■■■■■xyy:&xr\ *
Vr■l' ( ! i" A-W-f
yIMX:---:X V ,t
••' ' MXX'f'SX
:si"
’ShN
.?■ ';■ -a
-‘s«y
.*•■ s
f.'.W'
■A ■
■/xi %. *v
| SS-vfWs* ;•,['!
t iiMs M
kV
'■*•• ■'; V>;o .«? V-^f'■ ',
.<-.• V, n:
v'^T
V,
-V;
*35
■••••
saw
(WNS
'.' ■
as
mo&k
. -7-v
o*
;/i^V
jsv&C
W*
m
XX
-sy
m
>
v:
; £ >
< v
,-0
\;V \
tie
Hhs
ff.i
- *oo^
••;
m
##.
■ ’ •’ r - •
/
■S
si
vW
V -
ft
immm
titliihumM
m
sfis
l®#|||
•^r
Vi-*”.
r~
S,
VP
B 3
~ l < {
HP
1
mi
/ I
x a
f
res
yixjk x-
m
x~
‘iff:
,
s.
2
W#
Wj-3
■
f*3»s
S. f
V ._■
if
V'-
/ ...
Jm
X <■&& ■■-J/Zr'* SX
. - ■■>/*■ .. ' V» '
y .y-'i
M
XIO
‘XOX
,-, r S'
s «#'•-■ of • xmm ■
A a»' ;«
■Xy^fy-
J
xF-xmXy' 1
m*
C 'C-* p
y 11> m e.
if
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Poo,
Plavs with liquid
Phre too.
Plans have got to
Shift when he
d arns the spurting*
Horror free.
Here he goes
Along the coast
W ith a sizzling
Hun on toast.
“Cobra” making
P or the sea,
Cleaning up the
Enemy!


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Lvcte. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, o, 4. 6 Spring Street,
4Sio! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailing’s as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
‘ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
FOR MOVEMENTS
OF STEAMERS SEE
DAILY PAPERS.
•Passengers only.
Full Particulars >e Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, Ac.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Depute Chairman) :
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—Land on, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Afrioa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £ 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,940,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,940,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater. M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director;' Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birehin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of [)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£ 1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at ' Interest lor
fixed periods ; and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
a
ITi
On
George hotel,
st. Hilda, Melbourne!
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES. PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., £59 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEYEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD aJ 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Directors:
£3,894.980
£2,800.000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
The Hon. Sir Charles iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (j.Ai.U., AI.E.C
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. IT. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George st., Sydney, London Office—29 Threadneedle St , E.C
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London. •
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
I RrggET.T, FRENCH, General Manager. '
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
J£ank o( 3ustralta
SYDNEY. .
fSrVI. General Banking: Business p^Sy*.
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
< Minimum At all Branches, and over Interest at •>'>/
*/" Deposit 2600 A S encies at Post Offices P er annum , ®/o
in Australia and Papua. up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
L- jAMg3 KKLU Dtpn,y MS DENISON MILLER. GoT.rnor i
FARMERS S SETTLERS’ LOANS
The Commissioners are prepared to receive applications up to £750 on the
following tenures: —
Freeholds; C.P’s.; Homestead Grants; Homestead Selections; Settle-
ment Leases; Settlement Purchases; C.P. Leases; Additional CP
Leases; Special C.P. Leases; Crown Leases; Homestead Farm Leases'
Irrigation Farm Leases.
Rate of Interest, per cent.—Loans Repayable hv
Half-Yearly Instalments in 31 Years.
Application forms obtainable at the Head Office or anv Branch of the RnnV
at the offices of Crown Land Agents. ‘ e Cank aud
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). uu *
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and f™
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. IIORIALT*
S.S. RUPARA
S.S. PARINQA
SAILINGS CANCELLED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. $
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Comp 4 "
on all services subject to conditions, which can
ascertained on application at the Company's Office
G. S. TOLL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fa*t Passenger Steamshins
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails even' four weeks, from Sydney
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vicevZ
as advertised in daily newspapers. a ‘
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
1 1 om Sy dnev to Hobart and vice versa every threa
weeks. S.S. Rotomahaim between Melbourne
Launceston twice weekly, w u
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney *
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282,
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON &'CO„ Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACIIARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES k CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
1 WEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLIhWJ,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COIFS
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cumuinauou Tickets are lbsueu in conjunction until
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Alurwiiiumnan.
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence liners,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-w-
-date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 6s.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
Authorised Capital f ?’iq» 679
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund ... -'IS
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chamna”-
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD.; FRAN* -•
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAOnn
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. ■
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and KK
Streets). Manager: E. P. Cabr.
BRANCHES;
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector }o'
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell. ".jH|
MELBOURNE (.325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON' (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.). .
Manager: A. F. Jenkins. ... , ES
And at So Places throughout New Souti
and Queensland. Agents throughout the
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, ana
Chief Cities throughout the Woria.
Every Description of Banking Business Transa
, LI. AUSTRALIANS visiting f°“J“
L should read the British A
ian. lid. weekly —an illustrated
itaining mail and cable news f pe
lia and news of Australians , j B .
lat home. Australians are cor' glA j|
ed to visit the British Aus're* jj o i-
ading Room at the Offices, 115 t g
•n, London, W.C., where they can se
me papers, meet their friends,
ephone, and obtain information


BBEY
HOES
are made on our own lasts, in the
most exclusive models. They are
not only distinctive in appearance,
but they will give you the utmost
in service and comfort.
They are made in half and full
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide, therefore you
are assured a perfect fit.
We illustrate one of our latest
models—a choice Glace Kid Bal.
with Patent-Leather Toecaps.
Price 32 6. Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (j.P.O. and hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sj'dney
HORUCK’S
MALTED
MILK
II
a
o'
Next time you feel
fagged, try a glass of
Horlick's Malted
Milk. You will feel
the difference almost
at once. You will
note a speedy accele-
ration of energy.
Horlick's rapidly en-
dows the system with
vim, vigour and
vitality.
Ask for Horlick’s at
the Soda Fountain.
Sample will bo sent
on receipt of 2d. in
stamps to Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson Street.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Price
ill
DARBY AUTO
SUPPLIES
Co p c a U<*
2^9
Poif Pan
Elizabeth
STREET
MELBOURNE - 1
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
\-
The Merit of a“PLUM”
is best appreciated by the man who has tried all other sorts of Razors
before discovering the “Plum'’ masterpiece. All the science in the
world can’t make a keener blade, or one that- keeps its edge so long.
Send for a “Plum” Razor to-day.
PRICE 10/6-POST FREE..
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor. Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Rouble Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Rouble Case, 30/-
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIGS* AITKEN,
654 GEORGE, STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Economy & Patriotism
IT is not only patriotic to
buy Raineses Underwear —
it is an act of good judgment
and sound economy as well.
Rameses is a dependable British made
garment at a popular price, no foreign
made article can equal it in value.
Every Rameses garment bought not
m
only helps British trade, it helps to victory as well, as
practically all excess profits go to the British Government.
SIAMESES
BRITISH MADE UNDERWEAR
Every genuine Rameses garment bears the Rarneses trade mark. Made in
various weights for men and women. Of all leading Drapers and Stores,
J 2909- —-Garnet,
Peridot and
Pearl Set Oct.
Gold Pendant.
Price 21 /-
LATEST
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
C 6390. —Fine Quality
Amethyst and Pearl
Set 15et. Gold Brooch.
Price £3/15/-
Charming Gifts
in Gem Jewellery
At Stewart Dawson’s.
The name of Stewart Dawson is a guarantee of
reliability in all that pertains to Gem Jewellery,
and our prices show a SUBSTANTIAL SAVING
by comparison.
C 5391. —High-grade Keyless I.evcr Watch,
Fully Jewelled, Accurate Timekeeper.
Price, 9ct. Gold, £6/10/- 15ct. Gold,
£9/10/- Others from £o upwards.
STEWART
DAWSONS,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
P 2087. -Turquoise
and Pearl or
Pink Tourmaline
and Pearl Set
9ct. Gold Pendant.
Price 35 / -
LATEST
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
C<s749.—Fine Quality
Amethyst and Pearl
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch.
Price £5/5/-
PERFECTION V DESIGN.
MATERIALS and WORKMANSH
19
4/
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
-'■i
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
Macmillan s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised arc those at which the
hooks are published in London. Trices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
A DIVERSITY
OF CREATURES
STORIES BY
RUDYARD KIPLING.
Uniform Edition, 6s.
Pocket Edition : Cloth, 4s. 6<l. not.
Leather, ss. net.
Dominions Edition, 3s. 6d.
THE NEW PACIFIC: BRITISH
POLICY AND GERMAN AIMS.
By C. BRUNSDON FLETCHER.
With a Preface by VISCOUNT
BRYCE, 0.M., and a Foreword by
the Rt. Hon. W. M. HUGHES.
Prime Minister of Australia. With
Portraits and Map. 7s. 6d.
National News : “This is a work of
substantial merit, falling into a class apart
from the ephemeral literature of the day....
Tnto its making- have gone the reflections and
conclusions of a life’s experience.”
VOL. VIII. JUST PUBLISHED.
A HISTORY OF THE BRITISH
ARMY. By the Hon. J. \V. FOR-
TESCUE. Vol. VIII. [lBll-18121.
With a separate volume of Maps.
8 vols., 30/- net.
Army and Navy Gazette : “The whole vol-
ume is admirable; it is equally the work of a
great student and of an impartial historian.
.. . ..The author has been very fortunate in
his cartographer, Mr. Cribb, who has contri-
buted to this volume twenty-three of the very
best, clearest and most carefully drawn maps
that have ever adorned any military, or indeed
other, history.”
1917 ISSUE JUST PUBLISHED.
THE STATESMAN’S YEAR ROOK.
Statistical and Historical Annual of
the States of the World for the Year
1917. Edited by J. SCOTT K EL-
TIE, LL.D. Assisted by M. EP-
STEIN, M.A., Ph.D. With Maps.
12s. 6d. net.
THE
ROUND TABLE,
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the, British Empire.
Leading Contents for June:
NEW ZEALAND: THE MILITARY SERVICE
ACT; THE ACT IN WORKING; THE
ATTITUDE OF LABOR ; PROBLEMS OF
EXEMPTION.—A WAR OF LIBERATION.
—THE NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN' THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE EMPIRE.—THE
EDUCATION OF THE CITIZEN. —
AMERICA’S ENTRANCE INTO THE AVAR.
—TURKEY: A PAST AND A FUTURE;
etc., etc.
Price 2s. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per
annum, post free to any address with-
in the Empire.
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S WAR
MAP OF PALESTINE. 2(1 x 22 in.
Printed in Colors. Unmounted 6d.
net. Cloth Folded Is. 3d. net.
THE NEW SYSTEM OF GYNAE-
COLOGY. Edited by THOMAS
WATTS EDEN. M.D., F.R.C.S.E..
F.11.C.P.: and CUTH II ER T
LOCKYER, M.D., 8.5., F.R.C.S.,
F.R.O.P. In Three Volumes. With
numerous Illustrations in Color and
Black-and-White, ill 6s. net.
The British Medical Journal: “The New
System of Gynaecology is highly creditable to
British gynaecology. The printing, paper and
illustrations are admirable... .in general excel-
lence we have no hesitation in stating that it
is the best work on gynaecology published up
to the present time.”
By Siu RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
MY REMINISCENCES. Bv Sir
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. With
Illustrations, 7s. 6d. uet.
PERSONALITY. Lectures delivered
in America by Snt RABINDRA-
NATH TAGORE. With Illustra-
tions. os. net.
Daily Chronicle: “It consists of the lec-
tures he recently delivered in America, and
their message is eloquent of the East to the
West. Tagore speaks for all that is noblest
in the modern thought of the East, and the
West will, in these pages, hear him gladly
once more.”
POEMS. By RALPH HODGSON.
3s. 6d. net.
The Observer: “This small book represents
the most remarkable poetical achievement
since the publication of Mr. Yeat’s earlier
volumes.... Mr. Hodgson is pure poet. .. .his
thought, which is red-hot and silver-sincere, is
inalienably his own....it is not easy to think
of any poet, living or dead, who could better
than the ‘Gipsy Girl.’ ”
SIXTH THOUSAND.
GOLD MUST BE TRIED BY FIRE.
By RICHARD A. MAHER. Author
of “The Shepherd of the North”
filth . Thousand), 4s. 6d.
** Orders for this hook should be sent to
Macmillan and Co. Ltd., 109 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
THIS IS THE END. By - STELLA
BENSON, Author of “I Pose.” 3s.
6d. net.
(Being No. 658 in Macmillan’s
Empire Library.)
Bookman : “A book that should carry its
author far on the road that all first-class
writers wish to traverse. It is a brilliant
piece of work.... In the world of books and
book-makers, writers with such gifts as hers
arc few and far between.”
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan's Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from All Booksellers.
MACMILLAN&CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
AUSTRALIAN CHILDHOOD PORTRAITS,
SEVENTH SERIES.
Seven and Sixpence for Every Photo Used.
'"pilK United Commercial Travellers’ Association c;
Australasia, Proprietors of the National Annual,
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY,” encouraged by the suce®
of their six previous yearly, competitions, for which
several thousands of photos were entered from evw.'
State in the Commonwealth, wish to include in then
coming Christmas issue at least 50 OF THE MOST
ATTRACTIVE PORTRAITS OF AUSTRALIA.'
CHILDREN (boys and girls). They want them from
every State in the Commonwealth, and "ill 1A
7/6 FOR EVERY PHOTO USED; while _ all br-
others will be promptly returned after judging, P*'
paid. Ages of children to be from youngest ban.'
"hood up to 15 vears. • Previous entrants may coni
pete, but ALL THE PHOTOS MUST HAVE BELA
TAKEN DURING THE LAST TWELVE
The help of all Australians is cordially solicited
making these pages of Australian child-life «oi _■
of Australia. Thev will be CIRCULATED 1 • •
OYER THE WORLD. AND AMONG OUR SOLD****
ABROAD. No objection to receiving more thnn
photo from same family. On BACK OF E.
PHOTO must appear NAME OF CHILD and
AND ADDRESS OF SENDER, and photos must rear
the Editor of “AUSTRALIA TO-DAY,” Box •
G.P.0., MELBOURNE, by 30th SEPTEMBER, W”
Clutter buc K’s
What it Does.
Reduces Petrol Consumption JO to 20 per cent.
Adds Power and Speed to the Motor.
Eliminates Carbon Deposits by insuring Complete Combustion.
Makes Motor run cleaner and smoother.
Lengthens the Life of the Motor.
Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.,
20-38 City Road,
SYDNEY.
Manifold
Intake
Connection.
/
Dash
Board
Sole Agents for Australia
IN BANANA LAND
The age of miracles is not past. The
Adamson Fund stopped at £1500; which,
peculiarly enough, is just the amount Honest
John would have drawn had he remained a
State Alinister for the life of this Parlia-
ment. The coincidence shows how wonderful
are the ways of Providence, especially when
Providence is mostly anonymous.
“Pail”: Jean’s great butter-yield of 4cwt.
2qr. 2241 b. in 365 days (B. 5/7/T7) has
been made to look like a goat's effort by
F. A. Stimpson’s Pretty Alaid of Ilarelmar,
which in a just-concluded Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture test yielded 7cwt.
3qr. 231 b. of butter in 247 days! The gold-
mine is a pure-bred Ayrshire.
A Brisbane Grammar old boy, L. G. Brown,
who has just won the Military Cross, is
perhaps the greatest footballer the Northern
State has produced. AA’inning a Rhodes
Scholarship, he proceeded to Oxford and
thrice represented and eventually captained
the ’Varsity XA r ; also he played for England
in several international matches. On com-
pleting his medical course, two years ago, he
joined the R.A.M.C. as lieutenant, and has
since been promoted to captain. Len is a
son of J. G. Brown, divisional traffic-mana-
ger of railways at Townsville.
They don’t encourage the other sort of
swearing at Alelbourne Town Hall recruit-
ing depot, but when James Ryan, rejected
after working his way from Queens-
land, let himself go, his heat was regarded
as excusable. A bushman of 60, he had
taken five months on the journey, and had
made down to Alelbourne because a mate,
nearly his age, had pulled through there.
“This is the blanky limit,” he observed to
the sympathetic AI.O. who turned him down,
and offered to do a hit o’ horse-breaking
against any man he could well
produce.
A Brisbane Courier news item of 50
years ago:—
At the Toowoomba Show a prize of 10s. was offered
for the best pair of rabbits, any breed, Mr. Littleton
exhibited a very handsome pair of grey and white
rabbits, six months old, which obtained the prize.
But, bad as the rabbit may be, you can trap
him, freeze him and sell his pelt, and that’s
more than you can do with most imported
pests.
“B.”: The Rev. A. C. Plane has been
selected to run for the State seat of Bulimba
—where the beer lives. Alemory recalls not
a parson lasting in polities, except as a joke.
A politician has to bear interjections, inter-
ruptions and criticism; and the parson
ANY PORT IN A STORM
THE DENTIST: “Brit why didn't you keep your appointment on Saturday?"
THE BOY : "Please, sir, I had toothache.”
cannot bear any 7 . Ilis long suits are a
habit of preaching without contradiction,
the use of “argument” which consists of
proving the epistle to the Galatians by
quotations from Habbakuk, and the mouth-
ing of words like “vouchsafe” and “perad-
venture.”
Passed out. aged 78, at Sandgate, Gertrude
Alary, widow of Elovenden Hely, pioneer
squatter and explorer, who in 1852 was sent
by the Government on a fruitless expedition
to search for Leichhardt. Hovenden Hely
was a son of Francis Augustus Hely, who
came to Australia in the ’twenties as super-
intendent of convicts. F. A. Ilely died in
Sydney on September 8, 1836, and was
buried in a vault on his grant at Narara
Creek. Hovenden, his son, was in the first
Parliament under Responsible Government.
He died October 8, 1872, aged 49, and was
buried at North Sydney. His younger bro-
ther, Henry Lindsay Hely, was a Judge of
the Circuit Court in Queensland. After
Hovenden’s death his father’s two grants,
Wyoming and Wollongongine, were sold, and
the family went to Queensland.
Siege.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Flame on the western windows from the eastern
fires of dawn;
Haze from the sun’s incension, and dews from a
league of lawn;
Haze on the hills of Brisbane, and the river at her
feet,
On the palms in the sloping gardens, and the trees
of the quiet street.
But dawn and the hazy quiet and the gardens
cool and dim
Are noise to the peace of the orange groves in the
hills of Buderim.
The high green of the jungled scrub is the orchard's
castle-wall;
The faery swings of the stubborn vines loop from
the fig-trees tall;
The hips and flanks of high violet-blue that are the
Blackall Range,
And the peace of the desert silences, that never
know a change;
And south and north, though I see them not—but I
saw them both before—
The sea that breaks by Caloundra Head and creams
at Marooehydore.
The breath of sea, forest and mountain comes
sweetly unto me,
With the scents of the orange orchards, by the
vagrant winds set free;
The chequered slopes of the orange ■ groves are
gracious to m3 7 sight,
And the riping fruit, like golden lamps to lighten
the leaves’ green night;
Banana-palms waving their semaphores and their
wind-torn bannerets,
And sinking to silence earth’s noises as the sun
dwindles and sets.
From the wall of the unscathed forest, and the leaves
of the darkling grove,
Come the legions of silence flying, as the constella-
tions move;
Siege of the heart that is sickened, siege of the
slackened brain,
By the peace of the bush and the orchard, to make
me content again;
And old ills fly from the oastle to be3 7 ond the forest-
rim,
And I have capitulated in the orchard at Buderim.
Prisoner am I of peace, and men shall free me
against my will—
Free me to noises of the world, and its jangling that
cannot still;
Free me to live in the noise- town, where fools sell,
steal and bra} 7 ,
And night, when it comes, comes sad and shamed,
to cover the huckster's day;
And fain am I for the silence green, and the scented
garden dim;
And fain am I for the golden lamps in the groves
of Buderim.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 18, 1917.
My Dear Tiiahgomindah.-
• The annual Show has brought a whiff of
country to the town. This year we have
elbow room, but not much more. Strikes
and rumors of strikes kept a good many
people at home. But not the squattocracy.
They filled every cupboard at the hotels.
On Wednesday the Gov. opened the Show,
and afterwards he and Lady Goold-Adams
took a fork and knife at the official luncheon.
Her Ex. was in the interior of a black crepe
de chine and lace frock and underneath a
blue picture-hat. Mrs. Ryan was also
encased in black.
An “honor board” unveiled by her Ex. in
Mowbray Park the other day is unique. It
has a: granite base and a sandstone pedestal
with four marble slabs on which 520 names
already are engraved. Surmounting the
whole is the figure of an Anzac in sandstone.
The monument is 17 feet high, and overlooks
the river.
AYarrant-officer R. G. Sinton, an Allora
boy, has received a somewhat rare decora-
tion. It is the Cross of Karageorge, which
the King of Servia presented to the Austra-
lian in recognition of “conspicuous service.”
Two grand nns of Mr. R. Trout, of Ash-
grove. have 1. on killed in action within the
last few days. Lieut. Roy Trout was an
airman and had a fine record. He was 22.
The other lad, Percy, bombardier, was barely
20.
On Wednesday and again to-day Ascot
was like a human ant-bed. Mrs. Jack
Fihelly, Airs. Glynn Connolly, Mrs. Jack
Thomson and Alr& JHian Alackay (she was
Mollie Ferrier and is. just back from Blighty,
where she was nursing) were the lawn gems.
To-day the Gov. uncovered the captured
German gun which Premier Ryan coaxed
from Kitchener. It is to grin in Queen’s
Gardens, where a couple of pieces won in
South Africa languish under a statue of
Victoria, who, as the history bo. ks tell us,
was once Queen of England, Stradbroke
Island, etc.
The Residential Club for Retiynod Soldiers
and Sailors has been open tfifs week for
inspection. To-day Airs. Ryan was hostess
at afternoon tea, following the example of
Mrs. Theodore, who presided over the
earlier in the week. The rooms are hi!?
fully furnished and fitted up, and are 9 *
what temporarily homeless warriors needed
Last Tuesday the Mayoress '
Hetherington) gave a reception to A,)*'
Reeve at the Town Hall. The singer hf
promised that the money she collects •
Brisbane for the Anzac Buffet in I nr ,,i ln
will be equally divided with our Soldi!?.!-
Club. meik
Mrs. G. U. Logan, whose home has been
filled with guests from Central QueensW
for Show week, gave a dinner and S!
party on Wednesday night. After the pant, '
supper was spread at Lennon’s H ot J’
Another party was given by Mrs. p err '
Walker, of Glenlyon station, at the aami
house. The chief guest was Miss .TohnVr,
of Cremorne. The food was served" „n s
copper-topped tables decorated4with Japan
ese mats, snowdrops and hyacinths. So far
as the decorations go, this was the party o fv
the week.
The Bush Nursing Association, which has
been working quietly towards its goal f or
long time, is now able to appoint the first-
nurse—-for the Banana district.
The Australian Provincial Press AssociaN
tion hold its annual conference this week
Among the junketings was a river trip on
the Lucinda, at the invitation of the Premie.,
and Mrs. Ryan.
The Government intends to establish baby
clinics in thickly populated parts of the
city, and £2OOO is to be set aside for the
purpose of making a beginning with three.
Still more decorations for Bananaland
Billjims. Sergeant Fred C. Booth, son of
T. C. Booth, Brisbane timber exporter, has
pulled off the coveted Y.C. for rescuing
wounded and rallying troops of the Rhodesia
Native Regiment, following “on many pre-
vious occasions when he set a splendid
example of pluck, endurance and determina-
tion.’' Corporal John Mott, whose parents
live at South Brisbane, but who was toiling
in the Territory at the time of enlistment,
lias scored the D.C.M.; Major Rupert
Hockley has earned a D.S.O. in the Sommi>
unpleasantness ; and Birdwood has handed a
Military Medal and compliments to young
E. C. Munro, a stretcher-bearer from Bur-
pongary. ,
“Mooro”: Let me nominate Vulture-street*
Brisbane, as the longest publess thorough-
faro in any Australian city. This dryway.
which stfotehes from West End through
South Brisbane and Woolloongabba to East
Brisbane, measures two miles 64 chains, and
gives frontage to 300-odd buildings, include,
ing a town ball, a fire station, two railway-
stations, half a dozen tabernacles, a couple
of schools and a score or so of shops and
factories. But if you’re very thirsty—well,
just turn into any cross street.
Memories of Gregory Blaxland are recalled
by the death at Longreach of S. 8. Hays, a
grandson of the explorer. The Longreach
veteran was uot a native; he landed in the
T>o’s at the age of seven, his father being
British consul in Syria and manager for the
P. and O. Co. for a number of years. Queens
land lured the youthful Hays away from
Sydney early, and. after a spell as gold-buyer
for the Bank of N. S. Wales, he became a
pastoralist. But drought hit him hard, and
he was droving when the end came.
A Billjim son of a Brisbane business house
on the disadvantages of being a private:—-
I met a chap named in our battalion. Yi>i
will remember lie was butchering in , an;'
didn't pay our account before he left. I gently
reminded him of having done business with him, but
he didn’t remember it. As he was a sergeant, he
closed the conversation by telling me I was on
picket doty and to shake it up. I don’t think I
have much chance of collecting the account.
Yours affectionately, Australia Jaxe.


THE STUDEBAKER SIX
Reasons for its Leadership.
The S enes “18” Studebakers are the best cars Studebaker has ever produced.
They have been perfected by four years’ experience with the same basic design.
They embody ninety distinct improvements in mechanical construction, con-
venience and comfort over the Series 17, which made such a great record for
Studebaker in 1916.
They are made of carefully selected materials, tested and developed in the
oreat Studebaker laboratories.
o
Their workmanship is experienced, painstaking and carefully supervised.
The inspections are rigid and exacting in the extreme.
For these reasons Studebakers are probably the most powerful cars on the
market in ratio to their weight.
For these reasons they are most economical in the consumption of petrol.
For these reasons Studebaker owners frequently get irom 8000 to 10,000
miles on a single set of tyres.
For these reasons there are more Studebakers in use in California, where
they prove and test cars by daily use twelve months in the year, than any
other car costing over £ 100.
For these reasons Studebakers stand up on the hardest, hilliest drives and
under the most racking tests of the road at a minimum cost for upkeep.
I et us prove the quahtv and economy ot Studebakeis, iet us give you a
Studebaker demonstration.
studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.


Ball Bearings
Radial Types.
i i>ij
13,300 Series
Light Type
1200 Series
Light Type
2200 Series
Wide Type
1300 Series
Medium Type
2300 Series
Wide Type
4()0 Series
Heavy Type
1400 Series
Large, Extra Heavy Type
GARDNER, W/ERN
& CO. -
Melbourne 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane 369 Queen Street.
BAD
LEG
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
and PILLS are the
great English remedy,
within the reach of all,
in all- cases of- Bad
Legs, ' Poisoned
Wounds and Hands,
Ulcers, Carbuncles,
Muscular Pains, Bun-
ions, Snake and Insect
Bites, and will 9ave
lancing or cutting.
English Prices, 1/5, 5 1- A 5/- per box
Solti by all Stbres and Chemists and uk 'lesa 'e by
ELLIOTT BROS., ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
W. H. SOUL, PATTINSON & CO.,
AUSTRALIAN ORUC CO
ALBERT & Co., 73, Fam'ngdon St. Loo Job E.C. 4
Aquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” - gold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —-R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMJVAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes ail the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter's
Little
Liver
Pills.
i
Casters
VITTLE
VIVER
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Doaa—Smail Prlca
GENUINE must bear signature
War - work suits the super - efficient
SUNBEAM
u
m
A
HOT
to perfection. It emerges supreme from the stress
of it. Our unsurpassed experience of standardising
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
of unprecedented power and proved reliability in
such strenuous employ constitutes a guarantee alike
of our ability and intention to supply the public with
finer motor carriages than ever on the coming of peace.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - - 54-62, Oxford Street, London, England
WORKS •••••'** Wolverhampton, England
rasp
v/;
• .
rr kie
I'iAl
SSOSg
£4
2/4
as
/
:- ; v'v'Y
m
m
✓
< r :*
MESSRS. ASHTON 6c PARSONS LTD. have been 1
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
(Sc Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This moans that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Vhosferine
vy # s
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neur as thenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h*s received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Life and Energy,
See what a well-known Medical Man write* :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating 'to health writes:
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
4t Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D., C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton |A Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your ■ - .
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the j cost at
- j refunded to you. 1
Made throughout in the
Empire from Australasian Wool
Leicester Workpeople
44
ft
guaranteed 7s
ile Under- S
Get Jason
unshrinkable
wear for every member
of your family. Your dealer
will supply you.
Underwear
n . CNew 'Olympic” Brand
r P r * c .? s of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are.made,
‘ _™^ t . u ; e «. have . mtroduced temporarily lower lines containing a
ame guarantee of quality as the regular
■ c uuiuuutea cemr
percentage of cotton—bearing the same j
lines. Sole manufacturers
JASON
UNDERWEAR
CO. (
A b
KB
LEICESTER.
ENG.
£l 6s. 6d. you cun have Tin?
I- Bulletin sent regularly to you even-
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum
and all
addressed to The
Street, Sydney.
post free. Cbequ oU ]d bf
business communications
Manager, - 1 *
"The Cracked Tenor”: The Bulletin’s
Melbourne critic (9/8/’l7) has achieved that
which I had thought impossible. He has
mentioned the Gherniavskys in the same
breath with the Yerbrugghen quartet. If
there are, as he implies, people in Melbourne
who consider the music of the Cherniayskys
preferable to that of Yerbrugghen and his
colleagues, either because the concerts of the
Russians were cheaper, or because the Melba
llall has not been properly painted, or for
some other equally cogent reason, it is in-
deed, as the critic suggests, high time that
that Lady iSorthcote fund was spent in
spreading music amongst the mob.
“C. Ockney”; Edmund Waller, only son
of the deceased Lewis, has made a second
matrimonial venture. He was up till a year
ago husband of tall and picturesque Ethel
Warwick, with whom he acted in Australia
in "The Flag Lieutenant” and other plays
in 1!)09. The new Mrs. Waller, a bright
little singer and dancer named Marie
Blanche, was recently helping to kick up
“High Jinks” at London Adelphi.
“{Super”: This is the true story of Henry
Irving and the cabman. The actor, playing
Shylock at the time, drove up to the theatre
one night and in his hurry planked into the
cabby’s palm the first coin that came from
his pocket. It happened to be a shilling.
“Well, so help me!” called the cabby after
the disappearing star, “if you play Shylock
inside as well as you do outside, blowed if I
don’t spend this bob to have a look at you !”
Irving turned and passed up another" coin.
It was a sovereign. That was the real
Irving.
, Adelaide’s “girl at the piano,” Hilda
Felstead, expert at single-handed entertaining
and author of some of the best songs she
gives. has. been engaged for the coming
Freddy Shipman concert tour, which will do
Australia first and then work up by Java
and China to India.
“Giovanni”: The Varietv Artists’ Federa-
tion intends to run a candidate for the
British Parliament and has selected its
secretary, Australia's old friend Fred
Bussell, to fight the battle for painted noses
and delectable legs. If he doesn’t get the
political “bird” tne three or four square
miles of theatrical hash foundry known as
Brixton will be his constituency. Bussell
ought to do well in the House. Being a
ventriloquist he will be able to punctuate
his periods with approving “Hear, hears”
from the mouths of his opponents, and ask
himself suitable questions in another voice.
“Melb” : Re Bert Bailey’s coming produc-
tion of “Much Ado About Nothing” at Mel-
bourne King’s. The first performance I can
trace here was at the Queen’s, GO years ago,
by an American co., led by Henry Sedley
and Catherine Sinclair, who had divorced
the great, actor Forrest. Barry Sullivan
was a fine chivalric Benedick ; but I thought
Titheradge’s too much like Don Quixote.
fjulli van’s cast included. Ireland,. Fitzgerald,
larwood, Heir, Lambert, Young, Gladstone.
Mrs. Heir and Rosa Dunn. I’ve a dim idea
that Brooke acted Benedick, though it would
be out of his heavy line. Montgomery was
good—with Miss Cleveland's Beatrice.
Bandmann also attempted the part and fell
foul of the Age critic. Miss Waldorf’s co.
staged the plav at Her Majesty’s. Benedick
went on with a beard in the first scene, but
appeared in the later scenes clean shaved.
Harwood once returned with a long beard
from a trip to England. He made a speech
from behind his foliage, then shaved clean
and appeared the same night a$ Cassandra,
in Akhursfs “Siege of Troy.”
“J.F.H.”: The continued success of
“Damaged - Goods” at St. Martin’s, London,
has led to a revival of another plain-spoken
play by the same Brieux. In “The Three
Daughters of M. Dupont” Brieux makes a
merciless attack on the French childless-
marriage system. Australia’s old friend
Ethel Irving achieved a striking success in
the leading role when the piece was first
serai-secretly produced by the London Stage
Society some years ago, and she now repeats
that triumph in open and public fashion,
the old prudery in such matters having been
summarily expelled by the war. It was,
by the way, Ethel’s success in this rble in
the original production by the Stage Society
that determined her to throw up musical
comedy.
“Nbrbell”: George Musgrove was keen on
realism. His revellers in Act 2 of “Sweet
Kitty Bellairs” drank real wine even at re-
hearsal—to “get the atmosphere.” But the
most realistic touch I ever met was in the
production of “Term of His Natural Life”
by the Hyphen-Howler co. The portly
gentleman who played Gabbett left the stage,
with his axe, in pursuit of the Crow, and
presently returned gnawing portion of one
o ? the legs of his victim. This fine effect
was obtained by lacing one of the deceased’s
bluchers on to the thin end of a raw shin
of beef. It gave the elite of Goat-an’-Galah
a delicious thrill.
THE HORRID COUGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Upon the stage you note, perchance,
That any sort of cough
Has always more significance
Than it possesses oft.
When darling Willie coughs, you know
That darling Willie’s got to go.
If dad, who is one of the best,
A trifling cough should give,
His left hand pressed upon his breast,
It means he cannot live.
You know his coffin will be packed
To finish off the second act.
The heroine is tougher stuff:
She coughs right from the start,
And through the acts she coughs enough
To break the hero’s heart.
She coughs so much you would be pleased
if for a change she sometimes sneezed.
Yet most playgoers hotly feel
The hate I cherish, too,
For coughing plays. They loathe “Camille,”
And scorn its author, who
Stands forth the first dramatic toff
Who dramatised a horrid cough.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief;
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If vou have ever made a fat bundle of
vour toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
z
* V
.v
i. / 3£
'\
S-S
y
Y.
s 4^
"N.
"-S
r
«>.£
M
c\
o-
>r
TV;
4Ay
4!
S
<r?
£
/
V
K
\
i
\
///
(p
/
T>
2>
TO
\
'-V.
V
s
a
111
fs*~Y
My Best Friend And Your Best
That is the picture of my best friend,
your best friend—-in fact, the best friend of
hundreds of mothers and children through-
out the world.
There is many a young man and woman
who would not be alive to-day if it had not
been for the timely aid of Granny Chamber-
lain and Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
The principal ailments with which the
mother of a young family has to contend are
coughs, colds, croup, whooping cough and
bronchitis, and no matter which oi these
troubles it was I always found a friend in
Granny Chamberlain and her medicine—
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,
When I tell you of the many times
Granny Chamberlain has come to my aid
you will understand why she is my best
friend and your best friend and why I sing
her praises.
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain’s
Tablets are a new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Liver and Bowels ; they have met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Liver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used tliev are a most popular medicine and everyone who has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PILLS and you would never wish to take another
dose of pills after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle m
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followe
by constipation. They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. per box.
Salti-Flush
Makes and Keeps
Toilet Bowls Clean
A little Sam-Flush sprinkled into
the bowl every few days will keep
it spotless and sanitary. It reaches
and cleans the trap.
The use of Sani-Flush means no
more dipping of water, no scrub-
bing. San:-Flush is not a general
cleanser, but an unique preparation
to clean toilet
\z
Th« ‘rep 1
which you
tern cfean
SBSS
bowls and
keep them
clean.
Ask
Your Dealer
Yourdealer
has Sani-Flttsh
or can get it
quickly; or
writeusacard
givingyourdealer s
name and we will
have you supplied.
S ani - F lu s h
should be used wherever there are
toilet bowls in residences and all
other buildings.
Does not injure plumbing connections.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.. J O9 Pi “ ? •
Wellington, N. Z. Sydney. N. S. W.
Obtainable from
JOHN BANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Worth double its price
Wolsey is worth its cost —even at
double its price—because Wolsey
is pure wool, and is dependable.
The cleverest brains in Britain have
decreed that Britain’s fighting men
must wear wool next the skin there
is no better protection against the
vagaries of climate or its hardships.
The makers of Wolsey have made
millions of garments for Britain’s fight
ing men —Wolsey is the wear for you.
M.
■N
Wolseti
-sq Pure Wool Underwear |
For men. women, and children. Guaranteed
See Trade Mark.
For men, women, and children,
unshrinkable or replaced free.
Of all the leading Drapers and Stores.
safeguard your health
QrJ.CoJIis Browne'S
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Gennine.
THE REST MEDICINE 108
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
acts like a charm in
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/8, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
I
Don't forget to use
,4L
to ~night—and again
in the morning.
You will find every reason
for satisfaction in the way
this dentifrice does its work.
Besides polishing the teeth
so nicely, it provides also
the thorough antiseptic
cleansing that is needed.
Sold by local he mists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVF.RT & CO..
Manchester, England.
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace, fetay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Diamond Cables Advise
advances in the prices of all diamonds equal to
25 per cent., and scarce at that.
When war broke out prices fell Greatly, and
we bought heavily. Bought in thousands, and so
we have now in stock a full two roars’ supplv.
AT WHAT I‘IIICE ?
At prices below pre-war prices, and so we have
not raised the price of a single diamond in our
stock.
We, therefore, can safely advertise that we are
selling diamond rings at far lower prices than
those obtaining in London.
Our stock of loose and mounted diamonds is
probably the largest in the Commonwealth, and
our priees the lowest.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd., Th H 6 ou'e e in syTne y ery
Plain Figures. Cash Only. 23 &. 25 HUNTER ST.
Fine Diamonds, set in Platinum, on fine
Gold Brooch, £B/8/-
Fine Diamonds, set
in Platinum, and
18ct. Gold Ring,
Fine Diamonds, set
in Platinum, and
18ct. Gold Ring,
GRAMOPHONE”
Library Grand.
The Instrument that
Everyone Admires.
Exquisitely produced in beautiful
Mahogany, with brass gilt fittings
—a decorative piece of furniture as
well as a musical instrument that
delights and educates.
This model is more suitable for
small rooms than the larger cabinet
instruments, giving slightly less
volume but the same mellow tone
and clear reproduction.
An “His Master’s Voice” triumph!
1
11 GRAMOPHONE ”
lleyistered Trade if ark.
Satin-finished Mahogany - £4O.
Other Models £7/15/- to £7O.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name
of nearest accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PUT STREET SYDNEY
errough rfi®
FIRST AID TREATMENT
FOR cuts, bruises, and skin irri*
tations of all kinds use
Vaseline
Trade Mark Registered
Carbolated
Petroleum Jelly
It lessens the risk of infection.
For sale at all chemists and general
stores, in glass bottles and tin tubes.
Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London . Montreal Nio.cow
MOTORS TOR BOATS
H.P., Bore Si inch,
Stroke 4 inch.
8 H.P.,
Bore 3$ inch,
Stroke 4 inch.'
Bore 34 inch.
Stroke 4 inch.
The Roberts 2=Cycle Motors
have demonstrated to their world users that economically
patented features, coupled with carefulness in construction,
produce as good satisfaction in this motor at a low price as can
be obtained by other high-priced motors. We are open for
dealers for this country. Specifications and terms furnished on
application. Roberts Standard Marine Type, 4-16 h.p.
heavy duty, slow speed, 8 h.p.
ROBE RTS MOTORS
1600 Roberts Bldg. Export Department Sandusky, Ohio, U.S.A.
CABLE ADDRESS: “ROMOCO.” [1
100%
Shaving
Efficiency
in
MSMrisrtfs
SHfll/INC CREAM
jlsnr!^p
sKflWitt
RHRKD ritrtPitl
ChenicrlC^
TUV^
d
W
UIU
imwK.
I
■ • • ■•
• N .
$
.■'->-
ffe
3
r
Thousands of businessmen who strive for 100 per cent efficiency in the office
are still content with fiom 40 to 50 per cent efficiency in the bath room.
The demand for more speed, less muss, less of the tedium of relathering,
rubbing-in, and slow, difficult shaving, and less smart, bite and irritation, has
caused many men to discard successively the mug, the stick and the powder
as they would discard a wasteful, antiquated machine in the factory.
Mennen s Shaving Ci earn overcomes every objection to mugs, sticks, and
powders. It is sanitary. It actually softens the beard. It leaves the skin
soft, cool and refreshed. There is not a bite or a smart in a tube of it.
Mennen s Shaving Cream costs but little more than bar or stick and lasts
longer than powder A tube, if used according to directions, will deliver a
shave a day for months
Obtainable at all leading chemists and storms
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
109 Pitt St., Sydney
N. S. W.
17 Victoria St., Wellington
N. Z.
This coupon brings you a FREE sample of
MENNEN’S talcum for men
/ of
Nam a
Add rest
To G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
iSmtoSn. stam Ped addressed envelope for fret sample
City


MM FOR
SKIN TROUBLES
V
51
The Soap
to Cleanse
Ointment
to Heal
Nothing
better,
q uicker,
safer, surer
at any price
for skin
troubles of young or old that itch,
burn, crust, scale, torture or disfig-
ure. Besides, you may try them
before you buy them.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE’S
spzciAuse
TWO .
L /A/ £3
|# 5
$
UHB
V
WQiTE
fOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGE5 T SYDNEY
&r COMTEK S T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
:'Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
I
m
I
A
n
ELEY .410 "Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY .22 Long Rifle
“E” Brand
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELBY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS L°LONDON
Explaining "Feminine Charm”
By MILLICENT BROWN.
Illustrated by PENRHYN STANLAWS.
I NOTICED a curious thing recently in
a railway train. A nicely-dressed
woman entered, and took a seat beside
me. I saw that everyone was looking at
her —staring, in fact. But
not offensively, you under-
stand. I caught my-
self doing the same
thing. It was
impossible to
help it. Cer-
tainly it was
not her
said ;“I remove my skin.” “You what f” I
exclaimed, horrified. Again she laughed, and
replied, “Sounds shocking, doesn’t it? But
I will explain. Instead of using face creams
1 use only pure mercolized
wax, procurable at any
chemist’s. The wax
has a gentle absorbent
action which
takes up and
removes the
soiled and
weather-
Cjk VS!
N':
TO
fc-
y
’^2
3
m
s
v<w
M
'w
n;
0
«s
7^
>\«
■<
pv^
/'£
3
t^)%
T'
cO ii,T^s's
I
s*s3f
_
•ftNUUYN SrANIA^
beauty of
feature that
held the eyes
of all, nor
was it her
costume. But
there was
something about her
face and expression—
I risked it, and spoke.
“Would you mind telling
me,” I said, “how you keep
your complexion so dazzlingly pure? You
won’t think me impertinent, but you seem
to be over thirty, aren’t you ? And yet you
haven’t a line in your face, and your cheeks
are quite peach-like. Dp tell me how
you do it.” She laughed, quite good-
naturedly. “Oh,, that’s very easy,” she
beaten outer
film - skin,
withoutpain,
irritation br
d i s comfort,
thus reveal-
ing the real
■ complexion fresh and
clear underneath.
Every woman has a beauti-
ful complexion underneath,
you know. Then, to keep
my face firm and free from wrinkles, I
merely indulge in a sparkling face bath two
or three times a week, which I prepare by
dissolving a little stymol (obtained at the
chemist’s) in a bowl of warm water. Thus
also keeps away those unpleasant little
blackheads, and prevents ‘shine.’ ” £3
(Pronounced JeU-UoydO
'J'HE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Antemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on Slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ’’Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Ansemia
is symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, k and a feeling of general “fitness” and well-being.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —“ Impoverished blood can be made rich and good
“by means of Iron ‘Jetlo ds ,’ the most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT'S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON -JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by The Jelloid’ Co.. 205. City Road, London. England.
THE
x on al
k
t£
■
&&&
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £650,000.
Reserve Liability ot Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: §ir JOHN GRICIC Chairman ; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E.-H. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. . Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed- to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the- Rewisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
The Inky Way.
* * * *
“Norbell” : The rumor that a daily Labor
paper might break out in Toowoomba badly
scared the two venerable sheets there; but
as the registration was refused under the
Win the War Act, the hoary-headed Chron-
icle and Darling Downs Gazette breathe
—or wheeze —again. By the way, does any-
one know of any place in Australia with
such an Inky Wayste as Brisbane? Five
dailies, no less ; four Sunday dumplings, and
the Censor only knows how many other
weekly sheets and wet blankets.
The Graphic of Australia, a Melbourne
weekly which makes a point of strafing the
local Hun whenever he seems to be too much
in evidence, and takes as serious a view of
the war-position as the Censor will permit,
has enlarged itself and put up its price to 3d.
The paper isn’t by any means polite to the
Prime Minister, and doesn’t seem afraid to
say “Bo!” to Peacock, so there may be a
useful future ahead of it —if the public 3d.
continues to be forthcoming as readily , as it
was for the first issue of the new series.
“W.J.D.”: Fred Boyett, of Cloncurry
(Q.), edits, prints and publishes the West-
ern Mail and the Friezland Sentinel.
These journals are issued from strong-
holds 53 miles apart. He is his own sub-
editor, business manager and pointer's
familiar. Occasionally he bursts into war
extras, and he regularly does job printing.
When time hangs on his hands lie' trains a
racehorse called Monarose [.which I‘success-
fully backed at the last Cloncurry meeting).
He intends to get married soon, and then
move on to the war. Things are very irri-
tating to a man with time hanging on his
hands.
* * * *
“Machete”: Recent par. about the Mun-
gindi Herald printing an edition on brown
paper recalls the fact that this border rag
never has allowed trifles to stick it up.
During the S’African war, when the drought
lay heavy on Australia, there were no teams
to carry supplies from Narrabri to Mun-
gindi. Nevertheless I regularly received the
paper while I was in S’Africa, printed some-
times on brown wrapping, sometimes on blue,
green and pink “bill” ; on any old thing, iD
fact, except woolbale.
“Copy Boy” : The unaccustomed spectacle
of a pressman blushing like a curate was
observed at Horsham (Vic.) the other day,
the performer being Roy Bridges, of the
Age. Agriculture Minister Hageltliorn, ad-
dressing a public meeting, mentioned that in
a book, “The Immortal Dawn,” an account
of some of the deeds of the Anzacs was given
in a style that should render them vivid to
future generations. He also mentioned that
Bridges, the author of the book, was present
in his capacity as a reporter, whereupon the
audience awarded three hearty cheers to the
most painfully-embarrassed pressman in the
Commonwealth. The cheers were deserved,
anyhow, for Bridges is giving his share of
the profits from the book to war-relief fund?.
* * * *
“B. J.”: The cable mentions that George
Ernest Morrison has sold his Chinese library
for £35,000. Five years ago he had about
5000 volumes, including a remarkable collec-
tion of newspaper clippings, all indexed and
cross-indexed. Every book, article or para-
graph of any value at all relating to China
had been read and classified by the indefa-
tigable traveller from Geelong. With this
storehouse at his back, and his own fine nose
for news in front of him, it* is not surprising
that as Times correspondent at Pekin Mor-
rison was better informed regarding Orien-
tal politics than the bigwigs of the Foreign
Office and the embassies.
» * * *
Cartoons Magazine (Chicago, U.S.A.),
gives Will Hope a little notice. Hope, it
seems, is a native of “Parramalta, Aus-
tralia.” “His earliest cartoons appeared in
the Australian Star and in Steele Rudd’s
Magazine, and later he got into The Bulle-
tin.” He spent seven years in the Fiji
Islands and in Maoriland ; then, moving on
to ’Frisco, “his work began to appear in the
Oakland Tribune and the San Francisco
Chronicle. Since then he has done special
pages for the New York Globe and the
St. Louis Post-Despatch,” and during
McCutcheon’s recent absence from the
Chicago Tribune he got a leg-in there.
* « « *
“Jack”: The bush rag’s trouble isn’t so
much the getting of copy as finding the means
of filling up the formes. I know a sheet that
continues to patiently advertise, now and
then, a patent medicine which has been off
the market for five years. Others come out
faithfully each issue with the lists of district
mails and turf fixtures for the next 12
months (and the last six). One paper puts
in the local telephone-list and another half
a page of weather prophecy ami the local
rainfall (tabulated in months) for the past
50 years. Standing galleys of tank, hay-
stacks and paddock measurements are inval-
uable if the type hasn’t washed its face off.
To these battlers the war is a godsend, with
its district honor-lists and rolls, its “How to
Address Letters to Soldiers” and “Where to
Send the Backblock Boomer to Billjim.”
FORCE OF HABIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Outside a corner pub he stood,
In shabby garments dressed,
And in a tenor, cracked and bent,
He squeaked annoyingly anent
His grey home in the West.
Then, guided by a faithful hound,
He took his battered hat around.
His auditors their pockets dredged
In search of zacks or trays,
Save one, who seemed too bored to live ;
He did not seek a coin to give,
But with a vacant gaze
Looked up, as though in deep distress,
And nodded as he murmured “Press”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


Edison Blue Amberol
Records for August
To enumerate the excellent records this month would be
merely to repeat the list, for without doubt every item
is a good one.
The first-mentioned, “Scots, Wha ITae Wi’ Wallace
Bled !” sung by Christine Miller, will be extremely
successful in meeting a wide demand. “Boomerang
March” (played by the N.Y. Military Band), by A. F.
Lithgow, the clever Australian composer, will also be
very popular.
“Broken Doll” (M. Domain), “Annie Laurie” (Criterion
Quartet), “In Dreamy Spain” (Helen Clark), and “I
Left Her on the Beach at Honolulu” (W. Yan Brunt and
chorus) are sure of a big reception.
Be sure you get YOUR order in at once.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28247—Scots, Wha Hae Wi’ Wallace Bled!
Contralto, orch. acc.
Christine Miller.
28248—L’Eclat de Rire—Manon Lescaut.
Soprano, in French, orch. aec.
Yvonne de Treville
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2972 —Luana Lou. Tenor, orcli. acc.
Walter Van Brunt.
2975—Shades of Night. Soprano and tenor,
orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer & Walter Van Brunt.
2980—Stormy Sea of Love. Tenor, orch.
acc. Irving Kaufman.
2982 —I Left Her on the Beach at Honolulu.
Tenor, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt & Chorus.
2992 —Sundial. Contralto, orch. acc.
Helen Clark.
2994 In Dreamy Spain. Soprano, orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer.
2995 — San San Soo —Hip-Hip-llooray. Tenor,
orch. ace.
George Wilton Ballard & Chorus.
300 P—I Surrender All. \Sacred, orch. acc.
Metropolitan Quartet.
3003 —-Songs of Other Da,yte—No. 3. Mixed
voices, orch. ace. i
Metropolitan Mixed Chorus.
3004—Valse Danseuse. Xyloplionc, oreli.
acc. William Dorn.
3008—Boomerang March (Alex. F. Litligow).
New York Military Band.
3011 —-Smiles, Then Kisses —-Waltz.
Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra.
3014—You’re a Dangerous Girl —One-Step.
For Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
3025 —In Honeysuckle Time. Tenor and
baritone, oreh. acc.
Arthur Collins & Byron G. Harlan.
3028 —Annie Laurie. Male voices, unacc,
Criterion Quartet.
3189 —Broken Doll. Manuel Romain.
27055—Caroline ! La-Jambe en bois —Polka.
Garde Republicaine (French) Band.
27060 —Overture du Domino Noir.
Garde Republicaine (French) Band.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
C. BRAND AUER & Co.’s. Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
4
Worksi Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
, i.
m
w
w
w
V/.
m
> % 11§ I
i %# £ %
ri. mW%M ill
Keep the
home fires
.burning^
Gives a lasting
lather and a
smooth shave
/////'//S/S/S//S/SS/-,
m
m,
.a *
m
■M
w
Guaranteed
not to dru
on the Face
From; all Chemists & Stores.
Agents s
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St, Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
It's Great Sport to get ’em on the wing c
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
&
m
m
X.
u
S£ -
Owing to market fluctuations
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date
830. C. G. Boneliill’s “Special” D. 8.8.1.
Hammer Gllll, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7ilb Bi eight paid,
Send for our illustrated
(B 1) Firearms and Sport-
ing Catalogue. Post Free.
811. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable’’ D.8.8.Tj. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, hOin. steel barrels, Greener
cross-bolt, both cboke, rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders;
half-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from to Till). Freight paid,
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
“SWEET CROP”
Cigarettes, really
delightful. 6d.
pkt., post free.
10 pkts. 5/-, post
free.
818. Caslimore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.ti. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-incb steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal- £QIQ j m
nut stock; weight about 71b Freight paid, J J
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £9/15/-
I ml
M
mm
mmm
Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
B2G. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8X. Gun, 32- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels, left
elioke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 13 gauge about
711 b.; of 16-gauge, about 611 b Freight paid
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge, 30in. barrels...
£6/6f
£6/15/*
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address^
836. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left, full choke, matted
rib, rebounding- locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end-, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7i to 8 lb., 16-gauge 1\ to 7J lb. —- £35"
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, g
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight P al -
L
SPORTING REPAIRS
A SPECIALTY.
832. “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 301 n.
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock ; weight, about
Postage on one Gun —2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State.
steel &ari
4 51-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action.
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol gi'iP.
walnut stock: weight, about CJlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
S.S.W.;
bi —Non-Ejector, 27/0; 82-Auto-Ejector, 30/-
1C
'"'■wusg**
! immo.
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS •
nm TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Dep°*
SSSSS4


Miss Winnie Tate Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic
fiMMm
■ ■-X
Mis»
WINNIE TATE
(from a photo.)
Liniment.
Miss WINNIE TATE, one of the
prettiest as well as one of the
most graceful of the J. 0.
Williamson Ltd. dancers, has been
greatly admired in the recent
revivals at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney. This charming dancer is
enthusiastic in her praise of
Magnetic Liniment. She says:—
“I have been using your Dr.
Slieldon’s Magnetic Liniment
now for over two years, and
I am sure I could never per-
form my work without the
help of Magnetic Liniment. A
ruh with Magnetic Liniment
after strenuous dancing makes
all the difference in the world,
for it takes away the tiredness
and strain, and leaves me
quite'as fresh as ever.
“You cannot imagine what
a lot of uses I find for Mag-
netic Liniment. I have used
it for Toothache, Headache,
Neuralgia and for a rub-
down after swimming, and in
every instance it has proved
most effective. I can assure
you that Magnetic Liniment
will always have a place on
my Dressing Table or in my
Travelling Bag, and I never
lose ap opportunity of recom-
mending it to my friends.
“Gratefully yours,
“(Sgd.) WINNIE TATE.’’
BANISHES ALL PAIN.
Pain in any form, be it Neuralgia, Rheumatism or Sore Muscles that pain if
you so much as move—all these pains and more are easily controlled by Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment. Not an internal remedy, but working through the pores of the
skin, Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment penetrates—goes into the seat of pain,
and banishment is the result. Apply the Liniment with the palm of the hand—rub
until the friction creates a warm glow, and the pain leaves you as if charmed away.
Life should not be spoiled by pain and suffering, when Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Lini-
ment is ready to relieve all aches and pains. The ever-ready family remedy, 1/6
we/am’s
? V ' 'V
Save the Lids.’
Save the Lids.'
D
N
E
ro
gCITT.jQNM*^
Save the Lids.’
Save the Lids.’
War Conditions
interpose to
separate this
lid and this tin.
There are Wheels within Wheels.
Steel is in demand for munition making, and only sufficient for the
maintenance of necessary industries is allowed by the authorities to
be diverted to the manufacture of Tinplates.
As a consequence of this restriction, Tinplates have increased three-
fold in cost. But the price of
REX
LUNCHEON
CHEESE
has not been raised, although other manufacturing costs are higher.
You still get the same full-sized
tin of piquantly-flavored and per-
fectly-matured Cheese, as before
the war, at the same price. To
avoid increasing the price
We have discontinued
packing the extra top
with each tin
j^cvovovovoyoVS
c %
a 'V
\
JONEs
CCMI
a 5
STott-=reCE~-
for a limited time. Hetail stocks on hand will enable you to save
the Lids. We urge you to do so, as several tins in turn may be
covered with the same lid.
Economy in the use of Tinplates is thus achieved, and an increase in
price avoided.
“Rex” is “the Cheese of Cheeses.” Place it on the table at every
meal —as a little after-meal snack—it aids digestion. For sand-
wiches it is unexcelled. Sold everywhere.
Foggitt,Jones&L Co. Limited
PacKers Of "Rex'* Pure Food Produds ;
Curers of "Rex’* Hams and Bacon.
The Three Souls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
HE laughed.... and passed on.
But a little bit of his soul was mine.
Oh, my door was bower’d in eglan-
tine, { ;
Sickly sweet, and how could it hold him?
Or such unformed maiden arms enfold him?
White thorn budded a-down the lane,
But he never came to my door again,
And the eyes that frowned from my mirror’s
face
Held a dead love straiked in his vacant place.
Ife went; he followed a fortune fine.
Bat a little lit of his soul was mine!
Did he remember when, back to wall,
He fought the cut-throats for life and all—-
Hired men, in a noble’s pay,
Who bought their dirks, in a noble’s way?
Did he remember, beneath that hail
Of steel, knees trembling, and cheek grown
pale?
He might have conquered the hired swine
But the stauncher bit of his soul was mine!
He lay like a rat in the ditch at morn
With blood on the mouth that was so for-
sworn,
And his splendid doublet all dark with mud.
And I was no whiter for his spilled blood !
11.
He laughed and passed on.
But this one had tarried for many a day ;
I was grown wise—in the wanton’s way.
I could stay a man for a longer time
In my wall&d garden of rose and thyme.
Together we saw the white thorns blow ;
He likened my breasts to their broken snow,
Bursting white from my emerald gown.
But he tired, too, for the spell runs down,
Xo matter how clo'se the arms may twine.
Yet a little bit of his soul was mine.
When he rode to the court the King was
bland,
But the churchmen had his betrayal planned ;
He might have countered their plottings sly
Had his life been pure as his aims were high.
When they set the trap that would cast him
down
Did he see white breasts in a gay green
gown ?
Did his senses trouble his brain like wine?
A little bit of his soul was mine—
That was the link that gave at last
When he thought his cable was fixed and
fast!
111.
He laughed and passed on.
Oh, he was one whom I scarce dare name,
For wrapped in a cloak, with a mask, lie
came,
The haughtiest gentleman in the land.
Yet he kneeled- to me and he kissed my hand
And placed a ring with a regal sign
On a golden chain o’er this heart of mine;
And I might have loved him —I swear I
might—
For the roses smothered me all the night,
And the reckless spirit within my breast
Flew straight and true to that royal nest.
But my days of loving were burned away
Where a slim fair youth in a red ditch lay ;
So I did not grieve when he wearied too
And left black eyes for a stupid blue —
The aftermath of a royal rage—-
And set his seal to a folded page,
With a chest of gold and a jewel fine.
But a little bit of his soul was mine.
To-day I can hear the fierce mob howl
Their “Down with Popery, King, and cowl !”
And I lounge secure in my shuttered hall
For the Cyprian’s house is safe from all.
Protestant? Papist? What do I care?
All men arc equal who find my stair.
They beat at his gates that are carved and
stout,
But the riven soul cannot keep fear out;
He will parry and feint where he ought to
thrust;
He will cry “You might” where he should
“You must.”
And the rabble who slink from a brave man’s
smile
Will grow bolder still in a little while,
Temporising with priest and book.
The little bit of his soul I took
Will be the rift that will let them in.
A mere’s man's folly? A monarch's sin!
I laugh as my hand in the chain I twine,
Yor a little bit of his soul is mine!
Yet, could I be that soft girl again
Who wept alone in the sun and rain
For a lover who kissed her soul away
Where the eglantines in the shadows sway,
I would ask as boon from the Fates that
swing
To stand once more by that falling king,
To place my arm as a bar between
Th« filthy mob, so my flesh should screen,
And the breasts that he fondled, lover-like,
Should swell for him to the piercing pike
To give my blood in a ruby rain
That be might have his perfect soul again ;
That he might stand out on the marble stair
And mock at the fools who mock him there
Till they melted back —as they would, I
know —
To the cobble-stones and the mire below ;
Glad afterwards, when they thought of it,
To find that their heads still safely .sit
On their shoulders. Not where the ravens
wait
-V dripping feast, o’er the city gate!
But....he laughed.... and passed on
And forgot mv kisses, as all men do.
I can see a sky that is pale and blue
Over my head in my garden place,
And a cloud as white as a dead man’s face.
While I hear the hum of the angry crowd
I smile a little and watch that cloud,
And twist with roses and eglantine
The shreds of those souls that arc always
mine.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
An Affair of Honor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BAILEY —Chuck Bailey—came out of
the court almost sick with rage and
exasperation, and turned the corner
into Queen-street without quite knowing
where he was going. His face was a bilious
green, his eyes dull and protruding, and his
short, dark moustache seemed to have been
brushed the wrong way, In the last two
hours he had suffered every possible kind of
humiliation at the hands of the prosecuting
counsel, and he felt that everyone in the
court had enjoyed his discomfiture. The
shame of being publicly flogged was in his
skin, in his very bones.
He crossed from the fashionable half-crown
to the seamy shilling side of the street the
better to escape watching eyes. It Seemed
as if Brisbane, and indeed the whole world,
were full of eyes, insolent eyes that knew
all about his case and the poor figure he had
cut. Pie walked on in a kind of dream,
staring into windows without seeing their
contents, and thinking of all the crushing
retorts he might have made to the innuen-
does of the prosecuting counsel if the scene
of their conflict had been, say, Flannagan’s
bar.
What struck him most of all was the un-
fairness of it. The question whether he
was guilty or not seemed quite irrelevant
to the issue. It was a battle of wits, and
these lawyers had him on their own ground.
They moved about the court as if it was
their home, while he found himself treading
as awkwardly and unsteadily as if the floor
was covered with eggs. It was a fantastic
world, into w r hich he had never penetrated
before, and it filled him with Ipathing—the
Judge sitting up on the bench and looking
down on him -with sleepy, contemptuous
eyes; the bewigged lawyers sliding in and
out like large, unpleasant beetles; the stolid
jurymen ranged in rows like wax figures.
But worst of all was the malignance of
the counsel for the prosecution. He had
been able to answer his own counsel’s ques-
tions glibly in the pre-arranged way; but
when Trenchard rose like a short, chunky
bear and fixed his cold eyes on him, Bailey
had known he was in for a bad time. He
had not guessed, however, what a brutal
array of weapons Trenchard could bring to
bear on him. He had been flayed with irony,
probed with guile, pounded With heavy
repartee, till he had stood in the witness-box
bruised and quivering, feeling that his own
counsel was a weak fool and that his whole
case was torn to tatters. It was merely
by the grace of Providence that the jury
had decided to give him the benefit of the
doubt.
The case was simple enough. He had
been charged with receiving pieces of leather
knowing that they were stolen, and the man
from whom he had bought them, an employee
at a harness-maker’s, had pleaded guilty of
theft. Bailey did not quite know whether
he himself was guilty or not. To be sure he
had his suspicions that Pym had not come
by the leather honestly, but he was not
going to spoil a good bargain by poking
his nose too deeply into other men’s affairs.
He was a dealer, not a private detective.
And if he could not tell whether he*was
guilty, how could anyone else?
The solemn procedure of the case, there-
fore, had seemed unreal to him all along.
What was alarmingly real was the virulence
of the prosecuting counsel. It was almost
as if Trenchard had a passionate, personal
interest in the affair. And his grasp of what
had happened, of the little evasions and con-
cealments, was nothing less _ than amazing.
When Trenchard was cross-questioning him
he had an uncanny fear that the lawyer had
really overheard him making the bargain
with Pym that night down in the Valley.
Near the Bight a heavy hand struck him
on the shoulder.
“Well, Chuck, you got out of it all right.”
He roused himself with a trace of annoy-
ance.
“What the devil did you expect?” he rap-
ped out.
The small, wrinkled eyes of Bollett, an-
other dealer who had been a witness for him,
were looking at him cutely.
“Dunno!” he said. “You never can tell
in these cases. They always try to deal it
out hard to the receiver.”
It was evident that Ifollett was inclined
to ridicule his pretence of innocence. In
the witness-box Bollett had sworn that such
irregular transactions as Bailey’s were quite
common in the trade, and that it was not
customary to bother about receipts for small
amounts. He had been a valuable witness
on his behalf, and apparently he thought
that that admitted him into some close inti-
macy. But Bailey was too preoccupied to
resent his familiar attitude. He was burn-
ing with a righteous indignation against the
prosecuting counsel.
“What the devil did that little blighter
know about leather?” he burst out. “He
jawed about it as if he’d been handling it all
his life, and I’m game to bet he doesn’t know
a bit of wallaby-skin from the hide of a bul-
lock. If I’d been able to rap out a few ques-
tions about prices I’d have made him look
the mug he is. Why can’t he keep to his
own game?”
“That’s his game,” said Bollett, tolerantly.
“He reads it up out of a book the night
before and forgets it as soon as the case is
over.... Come and have a drink.”
“No,” said Bailey. “I got to get home.”
His feeling of soreness was only increased
by meeting Bollett. It was plain that the
latter thought Trenchard had rolled him in
the mud, and that he was lucky to escape
with a whole skin. That he of all people
should have been made a fool of in the box!
He whose reputation for a ready wit and
quick tongue extended all over the Valley !
"Rollett was glad enough to see me getting
socked!” he thought. “Lord alone knows
why I ever brought him into the case! He’ll
spread the talp wherever he goes.”
(Continued on next page.)


Sv
mill h 1 ~iranw
irst-
For the Skin}
AMONG all the new methods of
treating skin disease and injuries,
Zam-Buk stands out as universally
successful.
Zam-Buk is quite different from
ordinary ointments, and results
show that its healing virtues are
superlative.
Zam-Buk is not only a wound
i cleanser and disease-destroyer, but
it isolates the inner tissues from
infection and quickens the healing
of the damaged flesh.
These unique qualities, coupled with
its handy, convenient and ever-ready
character, stamp Zam-Buk as the
indispensable “ambulance” to be
kept handy in every home.
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Cuts, Bruises, Burns,
Scalds, Abrasions, Boils, Eczema, Pimples, Running-
Sores, Scalp Diseases, Poisoned Wounds, Bad
Legs, Ulcers, Ringworm, Barber’s Rash, Stiff-
ness, Itch, Sore Lips and injured and dis-
eased conditions of the skin. Zam-Buk
is obtainable from all Chemists and
| Stores at 1/6 per pot, and 3/6 family
||i. size (containing nearly four times
I lh. the 1/6 Dot 1. .ill
Q
11
RUB
IT
EVERY HOME NEEDS A POT.
Yt-JZ*.
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “ 7 o’clock
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, lat D.C.L.1., writes: Price in Australia .
"Up to the time of first using a“7 o'clock ” Price ' n New Zealand
Safety Razor out here shooing was a task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight.”
O’CLOCK ” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case— the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by 1* in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia.
12/6
13 0 J
But it was on Trenehard, the prosecuting
counsel, that his deepest hatred was ex-
pended. The man’s purely professional bit-
terness had taken him by surprise. What,
he asked himself, did that thick-necked law-
yer know about the business of a dealer?
What did he care whether Bailey knew the
leather was stolen or not? It was all a
matter of the day’s work to him, and yet he
had thrown himself into it savagely, with
venom on his tongue.
Bailey could see him going home to his wife
and telling her how he would have secured a
conviction if it hadn’t been for a thick-
headed jury. He wanted to meet the fellow
on some neutral ground and show him who
was the better man with either fists or
tongue. Until then he would never be able
to look his neighbors in the eyes.
For awhile he stood on the Brunswiek-
street corner, watching the democratic flow
of life in the Valley that had reared him.
Fortitude Valley they had called it in the old
days, perhaps because the residents of the
low-lying salient needed that quality to
endure the smells that followed a rise in the
river. But now it was transformed, glitter-
ing with new shops and throbbing with a
busy, commercial life. A boot-factory had
just closed near by, and the operatives were
pouring down the footpath to catch their
trams and trains.
Bailey stepped across the roadway just as
a Ford runabout, badly steered, took the
corner at a wide curve to avoid an oncoming
tram. It was on Bailey before he heard the
horn, and he leapt just in time. But his
knees were weak beneath him, and he
slipped, the car just missing his head and
crushing his hat.
Bailey could hardly have lain on the pave-
ment for a second, but when he rose he was
conscious of a great excitement in the neigh-
borhood. The crowd of workmen were
thronging round a little stout man in dust-
coat and motor-goggles, who looked as if he
were afraid of being lynched. A policeman
had pushed through the crowd, and was
heavily taking out his notebook. But every-
thing was blurred in Bailey’s eyes. One man
was handing him his hat, and another brush-
ing his clothes, while the hum of their voices
resounded in his ears:
“Get, even with the cow ! Don’t take it
lying d0wn.”.... “Get damages out of him
for the shock he’s given y0u.”.... “Teach
him to keep on the proper side of the road.”
Bailey had a confused impression of hav-
ing done something heroic. Before he knew
it he found himself pushed to the centre of
the group, and all eyes were fixed on him.
The man in motor-goggles looked depressed,
for the policeman, responsive to the crowd’s
sympathies, stood over him like an execu-
tioner. Bailey thought he recognised the
figure and the face.
"What’s your name?” demanded the
policeman.
“Trenehard,” came the muffled response.
Bailey’s hour had come. He felt a wave
of magnanimity sweep over him, a sense of
power and dignity, as sometimes occurred
when he was pleasantly drunk. He puffed
out his chest like a pigeon.
“It’s all right, constable,” he said pontifi-
ea'ly. “I don’t want any damages out of the
blighter. He’s had a lesson he won’t forget
in a hurry, and I’m not going to rub it in.
That’s all I got to say.”
And fortified by the admiring eyes of the
crowd he retired triumphantly from the field
of honor and made his way home.
VANCE PALMER.
Delia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MM HIS story opens with a woman’s
:! scream. Not a very loud scream, but
obviously one of distress. The venue
was the Fitzroy Gardens. It was a warm
January night, and I was returning to my
diggings in East Melbourne, after witnessing
a performance of “No Mother to Guide Her.”
A silver moon shone from a cloudless sky,
etc. The moon, though, did not interest me
at the time, whereas the scream did. It
sounded quite near, and forgetting that I
was a cynic (I was about twenty-one at the
time) and that in the Fitzroy Gardens
women have been known to scream from
ulterior motives, I rushed to where three
paths converged, and in the centre of a large
patch of moonlight saw a man and a woman
struggling. The man had hold of her right
wrist, and with his disengaged hand was
endeavoring to ward off a series of rapid
blows. He seemed about my own size and
weight, so approaching fearlessly from be-
hind I seized him by the shoulders and
swung him round, forcing him to let go of
the woman.
I call her a woman, because up till then
I had not had a chance to take a proper look
at her. Now I could see that she was a
mere girl; a slight, ethereal creature with pale
gold hair and a sensitive mouth. That was
all I noticed at the time: but subsequently
I ascertained that she had a white, well-
rounded throat, gleaming white teeth, eyes
like the brown of a butterfly’s wing touched
by sunlight, and long, slender, delightfully
soft hands. I made the earlier portion of
the above inventory in a glance; the girl met
my gla nee and flashed back a message, which
I at once translated. It was to the effect
that I was a brave and chivalrous gentle-
man ; she a delicate, unprotected girl; her
assailant a predatory ruffian. It stated also
that she loved me; that her emotion was not
mere gratitude because I had come to her
assistance, for if we had met in a railway
carriage or on St. Hilda Esplanade she
would still have loved me at first sight. She
added a postscript intimating that after I
had disposed of her blackguardly assailant I
might have the pleasure of seeing her home.
All this takes some minutes to record on
the typewriter, but it happened in less than
a second. Then the man —an unshaven, Jew-
ish youth with gold-filled teeth —butted in.
“Damn .vour interference!” he cried. “This
has just done me for my watch and
five-quid note. She’s got them in her bag!”
I knew instinctively that he lied, and the
girl promptly furnished proof by opening her
bag and holding it out for inspection.
“Well, are you satisfied?” I demanded
sternly of her accuser.
“No, I’m not,” he snarled. “What do you
want to interfere for, anyhow?”
1 can only attribute the extreme fatuous-
ness of my. answer to the fact that I had
just come from “No Mother to Guide Her.”
“I will always interfere when a woman’s
honor is attacked,” I remarked in clear,
ringing tones.
The fellow cursed me and took a step
towards the girl. I ,put out my foot, he
tripped over it, and, while he was off his
balance, I gave him a push that sent him
sprawling on the path. From the girl came
a little pleased gasp, and in an instant she
had caught my hand and was running away,
pulling me with her. Even at the time I
felt that this part of the affair was not alto-
gether dignified, but it was probably safest.
Besides, it was delightful to be racing
through the moonlight with this alluring
young thing panting gently at my side, her
soft, warm hand in mine. We kept running
until we were outside the gardens, then we
stopped to listen. There was nothing to in-
dicate that, the ruffian was pursuing us. We
waited a minute or two, and there was still
no sign. The srirl sighed with relief, and I
can remember hoping vaguely that I had not
killed the fellow, and wondering whether it
would be a case of murder or. merely man-
slaughter.
What followed is tangled in my mind with
wisps of pale gold hair and streaks of silver
moonlight. She flashed me a glance from her
voluble eyes. How could she ever thank me?
I replied that one did not require thanks for
behaving as a gentleman should towards a
lady—and did not feel an ass while I was
saying it! Might I have the honor of seeing
her safely to her home? Of course, I knew
that I might, for she had told me so in that
optical message she had despatched in the
gardens. Then began an enchanted pilgrim-
age in the direction of Richmond. I think I
have already mentioned her soft hands? Her
waist, too, was just the right size, as though
it had been moulded to my arm. Of course,
I knew she was not the sort of girl with
whom one could attempt a liberty. Not that
I had the slightest thought of attempting
anything of the kind. My thoughts may have
been unduly romantic, but they were strictly
honorable. While I was talking and listen-
ing I was speculating vaguely as to whether
two persons could live comfortably on four
pounds a week.
Her name was Delia, Delia Iluntec, and
she was apprenticed to a dressmaker. She
told me how she had been working overtime
and was returning home when the ruffian
we had left behind had sprung out on her
and accused her of robbing him. “Obviously
he was a blackmailer,” I remarked. She
lived in lodgings. Her father had died two
years ago and her mother and little sister
lived in Ballarat. “I would like you to meet
my mother,” she said softly, and I felt that
it would indeed be a privilege.
A clock somewhere had struck twelve
before we reached a small brick villa in a
deserted street. I had entirely forgotten
that I had ever even thought that I was a
cynic as we stood there together—alone in
a moonlit world. Might I see her again?
Softly she whispered consent; nestling in
my arms, her head resting on my shoulder
and her pale gold hair twined about my
heart. Suddenly the silence was broken by
the toot of a motor-horn, and a taxi swooped
round the corner and drew up at the kerb
near us. Delia started from me as two men
stepped from the taxi, one of them the
miscreant I had vanquished in the gardens
years and years ago—-or was it earlier in
ithe evening? “That’s her,” he said, and his
companion nodded and came towards us. I
stepped in front of Delia, ready to defend
her, feeling that my strength was as the
strength of ten, though not necessarily be-
cause my heart was pure. “Now, no funny
business,” said the second man; “I am
Detective Tinkler. Agnes knows me, don’t
you, Agnes?”
“Excuse me,” I remarked with dignity,
“there is some mistake. This lady’s name
is not Agnes. She is Miss Delia Hunter.”
“Friend of yours?” inquired the man.
"Certainly.”
“Rubbish ! You met her for the first time
to-night. I know, and Agnes knows, don’t
you, Agnes?”
“The man is mistaken,” she said quietly,
“but if is best that I should go with him.
It will be all right. Don’t you worry.”
“But this is preposterous,”- I protested.
“You know that you are innocent, and I
know, and what is more this scoundrel here
knows. You showed him your bag and there
was no sign of his watch —if he ever had one
—or his ridiculous money either.”
Here the young blackmailer bl'oke in. but
he was cut short by the detective. “Come
on, Agnes, the little love duet is over and
there is no time for an encore: not to-
night.”
“I had better go, Kid,” said the girl sadly
“Good-bye for the present,” and she held
out her hand.
I took the soft, slender thing and
squeezed it. In it was something round and
hard which she pressed into my palm with
a final confidential squeeze.
They put her into the taxi while I wa;
still assuring her passionately that I wouh
move heaven and earth to prove her inno
eence. Then they drove away. A white hand
fluttered towards me as the taxi turned the
corner.
I clutched tightly the keepsake Delia had
given me. Not until I had left the scene of
the tragic interruption to our happiness
several streets behind did I venture to look
at it. It was near a doctor’s lamp, and my
palace made of moonlight festooned witi
pale gold hair came tumbling about nr
head. In my palm was my own gold
sovereign-case, which I had worn attached
to the end of my watch-chain. It had beer
presented to me a fortnight before bv r
group of friends when I was leaving
Geelong.
Nowadays I sometimes think that Agnes
Milligan (I got the name from the papers)
knew I was from Geelong as soon as she
saw me,
HARRISON OWEN.


II
fetes!
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherstori Street, Wellington,
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Marine Engines
For All Boats
CaiUe HII. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started.
Electric Lights
Caille 8 H. P. Unit Power Plant
Caille Five
Speed Row«
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hoar
A most complete
line of marine
motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This em-
bodies one- to four-
cylinder designs in
standard and
heavy-duty types.
Also the most per-
fect rowboat motor
ever produced.
Catalogs giving de-
tails gladly mailed
on request. When
writing, please,
state which type of
engine interests
you and advise us
of the service you
wish it to perform.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Ag'ents:
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
51-53 Pruitt Street, Sydney; 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life; stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by 0. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt" Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
mm
No. E 6244
"MIL LE R”
Lighting Fixtures
Manufactured by the famous house
of Miller” are known and appreci-
ated the World over, they are to
be found in almost every country
throughout the Universe.
A large variety of styles
ELECTRIC, GASandOIL
for all requirements are at
your disposal.
Ascessories of every description. Look
over the "Miller” line it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers-
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
Meriden, Conn. U. S. A.
lV
r
‘ J
3.
'ey
X
* . . - &±
■^v 2^
m
w
H
■Jt
l
(}
\
a
V. •
m
hU
fff
p$
//<• «\V/,
//
■AVI
it
11l
i,i~.
> Y.j-1 | V\\\. -,,. " 1
/'■ «/ 1 /'■"
V/"
IF YOU ARE LIVERISH
) TAKE
BEECHAMS
PILLS
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win i oithout
lifting a hand?
w.
THE BEST
MOKE
LASTER
■s* TOBACCO
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER Carburetor
is made in probably
The Largest Carburetor Factory in the World.
¥ The Plant at Indianapolis, U.S.A., employs 1500
I workmen, and has a capacity of 4000 complete
i instruments per day.
The Schebler is noted for Economy, Dependability, Power —
and there are hundreds of Satisfied Local Users.
There is a Schebler designed for every type of
engine, whether Land, Marine or Aero.
MOTOR-CAR TYPES (N.S.W. Prices).
"FORD” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit £5/6/-
“20-h.p. HUPP” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit £5/10/-
“BUICK LITTLE 6” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit £5/5/-
(Ensures easy starting: and quick acceleration.)
For “Saxon,” “Standard,” “Stellite,” “G.W.K.” and other light cars, £2/12/6 each
(Carburetor only). For Mod. 51 8-cyl. “Cadillac,” £4/15/-; “M 6 Chalmers” 6-cvl
£4/15/-; Mod. 254 “Maxwell,” 1914, £4/5/-; “Oakland,” £4/5/-; “Overland”' £4/5/--
“Scripps-Booth,” 1915, 4-cyl., £2/12/6 each. For other 20-h.p. Cars, £4. £4/5/-- 30-h n'
£4/6/-, £4/10/- each. ’ ‘ v ’’
MOTOR-CYCLE TYPES (N.S.W. Prices).
For 7-h.p. “Indian” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit .. «q/2/«»o»n
For 7-h.p. “Douglas” or “Enfield” Twins £2/10/- /Carburet™
For 7-h.p. “Exeelsior,” “Harley Davidson,” “Henderson,” etc., Twins .V.. £2/12/6
CORRESPONDENCE CORDIALLY INVITED.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD,, 304 Pitt St., Sydney
Sole Agents in Awstralia for Messrs. Wheeler & Seheblcr. (X*


.NGROVlTßl’fflk
LEATHER
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
■MWGKOVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to bv users, whose
transmission trouhles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured onlv by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
The Mine Manager’s Friend.
The Celebrated "An Eagle on a Globe" Brand Mining Steel.
Easy to Sharpen, Durable
and Efficient.
Supplied
in OCTAGON and
CRUCIFORM SOLID SECTIONS,
HEXAGON and ROUND HOLLOW SECTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES!
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kaigoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The ‘ DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17:
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists' time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & OijAY LTD., Newcastle. fl
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS "REGRINDING VALVE,”
THEREFORE "ALWAYS TIGHT.”
-
d.
WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd
•i 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
PERMASITE
Quality ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
GYPSUM and
PLASTER OF PARIS.
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. m
J.M.T.
REDUCING VALVES
To Suit Ail Pressures.
RELIABLE. SIMPLE.
EFFECTIVE .
All sizes on hand from V% in. to Oin.
Large Stocks for Immediate Delivery of
Everything for the Engineering Trade.
Ft. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.,
IQI Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
#!•
QPt
o
■toADi
&
a
>
(Son
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-: Jib., 2.5/-; 20z.. 7/6.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, tree.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS.
NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
Cast-Iron Brazing Co. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Victoria.
m
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE AGENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
r-oBANE.
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
Type “Z"
1917
Model.
Sole Agents :
FARM ENGINE
FEATURES—
WORKS OX KEROSENE .... which means Fuel Economy.
STARTS OX PETROL winch means Quick Start—No Waiting.
THROTTLE GOVERNED .... which means Uniform Speed—No “Cut Out.”
GEAR-DRIVEN MAGNETO . . which means Hot Spark—Nothing Retter.
MECHANICAL SPARK PLUG which means Fewer Spark Plus' Troubles.
SPEED REGULATOR . which means the Speed You Want.
OUR PRICES which mean Rest Engine Value ever offered.
ASK FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
DANGAR, GEDYE 8 CO. LTD. , 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
-
The Most Popular Well Borer in Australasia
is the KEYSTONE
Traction& Non-Traction
' Friction and for Cog Hoist.
T 4
♦•rv's?
SS3C--
nr*
mi
*
r?T*»
Wife
m
m
m
NOTE-KEYSTONE TOOLS in StocK at PRE-WAR PRICES.
We have for sale a No. 4 TRACTION, with full equipment and extra tools. Dons very little work. A GREAT BARGAIN.
you **° no * wislm to miss tints opportunity apply at once to—
N* GUTHRIDGE LTD., City Office: Ecrv»itable Building, 350 George St., Sydney.
