

pnw AR3S—-The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
K. G. WATKINS SZ, CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Ikenti Street, Sydney,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
'i
EE
II
!t—-j.
dfg
On dll Classes of Security
J3IIDISCOUNTED
Easylerms Interest
NSWMONTDE PIETE-D&I'C?I7P
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREAGHST SYDNEY 74.
to “Daily Telegraph” New ISuilding.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
20 King Street, Newcastle,, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
;
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
df
* Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenti/"
VALUABLE FORTAN i
AND SUNBURN /
( Made in Australia by' .ij
fHIDERICKSTEARHS^C?
' SYDNEY. 1
g
ri&Kit atfcacß, _ f ,
linustliavc
finc^jpplcJ&raad
t
TO
.JUXKIOT made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous 'doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA fl SE N's
I
dfsg
ror INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded CIO First-(’lass Prize Medal*.
dsf
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Associatioa
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street , Sydney.
C.M.A
SXf GIUUS Gift
~-sjgino
*CN„
A
Practical tests go to prove that Malthoid is thia
finest material in the world for bungalows, flat
roofs, woolsheds, and all other structures. it
retards fire, is fume-, water-, weather- and spark-
proof. Write for samples and booklet, post free.
The Pa-affi r»@ Paint Company
tD S. Evans, Austra asian Manager), Chais Hous?, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L'
• - LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL. ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL. & FARM WAGGONS. ; IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS. t V
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
g
Arthur
6 (p
MACHINERY.
“Robey” High-class Steam Engines, “National” Gas, Oil anil Suction Gas
Engines, St< am Waggons, Road Graders, Scoops and Plows, Nestable Corru-
gated Metal Culverts, Concrete Mixers, Discus Church *V_«ran Blowers, Malleable
Pipe Fittings, etc., etc. ALSO MODERN MACHINERY FOR Road Building,
Earth Handling. Elevating and Conveying. Stone Breaking and Pumping and
Irrigating. Drawings and Suggestions gratis noon receipt of IJeonireinents.
Head Office : Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Agency: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CC. LTD., Charlotte Street
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 38.—N0. 1944.]
[Thursday, May 17, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Offiee, Sydney, N.S.WAustralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The LORD
Kitchener Memorial Book
PUBLISHED ON BEHALF OF THE LORD KITCHENER NATIONAL
MEMORIAL FUND FOR DISABLED SOLDIERS.
Size and style are the same as the Royal Gift Books, but there are more pages. Bound In cloth,
with pictorial wrapper, and with 96 pages of Illustrations and photgravure frontispiece. Includes
Lord Kitchener’s Speeches and Reviews of the Progress ®f the War, and Contributions by General Sir
William Robertson, Marshal Joffre, General Count Cadorna, The Earl of Derby, General Birdwood,
Brigadier-Genial W. F. Cleeve, The Marquis de Laubal and the Right Hon. Arthur Henderson.
CLOTH, FULLY ILLUSTRATED, 4/10, POST FREE.
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George, St., Sydney; and at Bourke St., Melbourne.
HUDSON’S
Eumenthol
Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
Contains no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive
evidence of the value of “Eumenthol Jujubes as
an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says: “Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
9
cs
A—The Larynx,
or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea,
or windpipe. U
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D—The lobe of
one of the lungs.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, or POST FREE ON RECEIPT OF 1/6 STAMPS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 19 York Street, Sydney.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent'Street, London. [6
The Red Page
The R.A.A.
Isn’t it about time that Australia had he?
Academy of Letters?
The Australian language is in the making;
Australian literature is big enough to suffer
from growing pains; and there are many
matters of importance to Australian authors
that require some sort -of authoritative con-
trol and guidance. But Australian authors
are a body of individualists, subdivided in
suburbs, each hardly cogniscent of the exist-
ence of the other bloke, making his own
experiments and hoeing his own row with-
out help from his fellows. There exists a
little society in Melbourne which promised
once to be of practical value to authors in
building up Australian literature on the
firm footing of an adequately protected
national industry; but even in a time of
crisis like the present Federal election no
sign of leadership has come from that
earnest group of literary trades-unionists.
What is obviously heeded for Australian
Literature is some body elected on a wide
franchise that will act as the Trades Hall,
plus the University, for Australasia. Hence
this page suggests the immediate formation
of the It.A.A.—the Republican Australasian
Academy.
This body, it is suggested, should consist
of the leading literary figures in the Com-
monwealth and M.L., of practitioners rather
than of professors of Australasian Literature.
It should be the final authority on all ques-
tions of the Australasian language, such as
a standardised method of Australasian spell-
ing, the use of Australian, and imported,
slang, the compilation of an Australasian
dictionary, the decision of such questions
as the split infinitive, the eternal “dorn-
mawn” rime, the proper spelling of Abo-
riginal names, the question of the duplication
of post-office addresses in Australasia, and
a thousand apparently small points that will
continue to arise in Australasian literature.
Also it should have sufficient authority as
a last court of appeal in any literary ques-
tion ; and some of its most important func-
tions would be the control of all pensions
of the dependents of literary men, of pecu-
niary or other help to literary beginners, of
advice to embryo novelists and playwrights,
of defence for Australian writers in all
copyright disputes, and of the awarding of
a money or honorary prize to the best work
in prose and verse, produced each year in
Australia.
The beginnings of the R.A.A. would neces-
sarily be modest. The first members of such
a body must be chosen on a wide, but purely
literary, franchise; and for some years, no
doubt, the functions of the R.A.A. woulc
be merely consultive and advisory. Bui:
if the R.A.A. foundation members were
wisely chosen, representing the best that is
in Australasian literature, the R.A.A. woulc
soon become a necessary part of our informal
literary constitution and would attract to
itself a support that would enable it to
ask for a yearly grant of money from the
State. In one State the State Government;
subsidises music—with results that are
already satisfactorily apparent. It must
be the aim of the R.A.A. to obtain, either
from individuals or from the State, a sub-
sidy for its useful and necessary activities.
J*
The French Academy was founded by
letters patent, for the purification of the
French language.. Its original members were
only eight; its permanent total is 40. Among
other useful works it compiled a dictionary;
and though opinions differ strikingly about
its present and its historical value, the balance
seems to lie in its favor, for the marvellous
lucidity of the modern French language
may surely be put to the Academy’s credit.
The French Academy is an academical
body; the Republican Australasian Academy
would be more than that: it would have to
take a practical interest in all matters that
affect Australasian authors and their work;
it would have to be sufficiently important
to impress even politicians.
How is such a body to be elected? This
page suggests that the writers of Australasia
should select their own Academy.
At first the R.A.A. would be composed of
academicians living far from each other,
an Academy without an abiding place. How-
ever. let us take courage from the first
Academy in the world. The word is derived
from the olive grove of Academe, a pleasure-
garden or gymnasium in an Athenian suburb.
Surely there are plenty of olive groves in
Australia, and a surplusage of gymnasia
and pleasure grounds? Any of these would
do for the annual meeting of the R.A.A.
It must be remembered, too, that the
Academician would oocupy a position of
pride and honor in Australasia. The signa-
ture, R.A.A. —Republican Academician of
Australasia —would be worth more than any
title conferred by a university, or even than
the Freedom of Whitechapel or Woolloo-
mooloo, conferred by mere municipal bodies.
Doubtless the Academician might be privi-
leged to wear a button, though there would
always be the painful possibility of him
being mistaken for a Win-the-War-Leaguer.
Of course, this being a country of adult
suffrage, there would be no sex disability for
membership.
This page suggests that the authors of
Australasia should select by ballot six foun-
dation members. The elected academicians
would then select by ballot ten names of
the Australian dead—who would not be
entitled to vote, to confer upon the R.A.A.
a historical and representative quality. And
when an academician died, or rimed dawn
with morn , or became Prime Minister, or
did—or didn’t —split a scissile infinitive, or
made a pun, or was three times convicted of
bigamy, or accepted a K.C.M.G.-ship, the
remainder of august colleagues would select
an academician to fill his place. And the
academician elect would have to pronounce
the eulogy of his predecessor. (And this
page and, it is hoped, many other pages,
would publish it.)
The suggestion made by this page, which
hereby elects itself perpetual secretary to
the R.A.A., is as follows:
The qualification for voting will be the
publication in The Bulletin of a piece of
verse or prose, other than a mere par., by
the voter. Such voter must mention his
credentials with his vote. Each voter may
name six, or fewer, persons for election to
the R.A.A., and may also briefly put the
case for any candidate to the readers of this
page. (Any person on the staff of this
paper is, of course, barred from being a can-
didate.) From the votes so received, this
page will select the six candidates who are
highest in the poll, and who therefore become
the foundation members of the R.A.A.
And the voter who places most nearly in
order most of the six elected academicians
will receive a guinea for his prescience. The
poll closes on June 23. Ballot-papers, which
must be addressed to this page, must have
their selections arranged in order of the
voter’s preference.
Free Verse
Some 70 entries were received for the
vers lilre competition, on some aspect of
the war. The majority chose War itself—
not some aspect of it. The new form is
evidently not so easy as it looks. The
majority of the competitors have not
grasped the fact that Free Verse, despite its
liberation from the strict metre of verse and
the useful bridle of rime, has a rhythm of its
own and demands almost the close-knitted
texture of the short story or the sonnet.
Thought and emotion and imagination are as
necessary in Free Verse as they are in any
metrical composition. Many of the vers
librists merely cut their prose into arbitrary
lengths and omitted all punctuation marks.
P. Stewart, C. W. H. Bingham, Dora
Scott, P.W., H. V. Edwards, Roy R. Rede,
“Sedan,” Edward Perugini, P.N.R., “Cap-
stan,” N.L.WI, L. J. Villiers, Edward Searle,
M.M., Boyce Boyden (2), Edgar L. Stevens
and H. W. Stewart make commendable
attempts at what is too obviously an un-
accustomed task. R. C. Henderson masters
the form, but dissolves into vagueness.
“Breton’s” “Machine Guns” is more ambi-
tious, but he alternates patches of barren
ground with outcrops of adjectives. Gerald
Shaw merely writes prose as will be seen
when it is printed as the thing it is:—
THE WAR STEED.
Brown Is a buyer from Billigo. As Brown can;" 1
cantering carelessly through the slip-panels that
seldom or never were up, my mates who were grazing
with me, in the paspalum paddock, whinnying
rushed to the furthermost fence ; for he’d been there
before, and they knew that when Brown saw a
likeable hack he’d buy it, or, failing, would camp in
the kitchen till he’d eaten its hide. As for me, I
stayed where I was, and gave him a grin of derision;
for I knew my defects ; I had heard them narrated—
hip-down and- spavin’d and gone in the knees —I was
safe —so I thought; but one never knows; and the
war has its lessons for all.
An hour or so passed... .Coming out of a dream
I heard my master saying to Mr. Brown: “If you
can pass him for twenty-five, you’re on a tenner, for
he’s worth no more than four”. ...And I went
through the slip-rails with Brown.
As 1 stood in the sale-ring, dull-eyed and droop-
ing, I thought I’d be soon passed in; but a big-
bellied, boosv-faced, bumptious old fogey, who was
standing with Brown, seemed to think me a prize;
and I was conscripted for cavalry work ; and Brown
got his tenner; and some poor unfortunate devil
will trust to my strength and my speed and endur-
ance, and he’ll go to Hell, and I'll feed old Abdul;
but my master and Brown and the boosey-faced
buyer, and the people who sent him, will talk of the
Anzaes, and sav: “Ain’t we doing it fine? Them
Turks’U be sorry they stirred up Australia.” And
they’ll buy some more Treasury-bonds.
Mary E. Marvin writes ’-■rose. embodying
a delicate pathos. O. N. Gillespie’s original
fable @f the frogs in a Somme lagoon unfor-
tunately ends in a swamp of vagueness.
C. H. Souter utilises the form neatly on a
subject too slight for publication. Bill
Bndd’s excellent effort needs the blue pencil.
Ella _S. Morrison’s fine impression is too
reminiscent of a vers libre already printed
on this page. And “Jane” supplies us with
comedy, spoiled by a line we have omitted :
A tariff upon imported books, as an aid
to Australian literature, was a year ago a
mere pious hope ; but suddenly it seems to be
coming true. This tariff will not be im-
posed by Australia: it is being sternly im-
posed by the war. Already the scarcity and
the high price of freight are operating as a
tariff wall against overseas literature. The
Australian importer cannot pass on to his
customers the whole of the increased price
he must pay for freight; for there is a limit
of price to certain classes of books, and
once that price is exceeded those books cease
to be necessities for the customers. There is
therefore noticeable a tendency on the part
of Australian booksellers to publish Aus-
tralian books, thus saving excessive freight
and certain delay, and the difficulty of regu-
lar shipments. This page has heard already
of one book written by an Australian which
was actually accepted by a London pub-
lisher, but which the Australian agent has
decided to print in Australia owing to the
delays and drawbacks incidental to London
publishing.
J. H. Maiden continues his vast Critical
Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus, the
latest parts being the 9th and 10th of the
3rd volume.
Science Progress, a quarterly review
(Murray, per G. Robertson, 55.), continues
to provide highly-nutritive but rather tough
provender for the scientific reader. The
January issue contains portraits and biogra-
phies of the two Australian winners of the
Nobel Physics Prize for 1915, Prof. W. H.
Bragg, of Adelaide, and his son, W. L.
Bragg, now on duty in France.
HOW A FLAPPER SEES THINGS.
I have not done .so badly out of this War.
Jack left me a separation allowance, and perhaps
we will be married when he comes home;
And Bill lent me his car before he left.
Poor Bill has been missing a year—
I do not expect he will ever want it back—
So I try to do my bit, taking wounded officers out
for drives,
Which makes up a little for all the dances that never
happen now.
My V.A.D. uniform was not very becoming,
So I took up spinning—we should all try to help
Win the War.
I have some awfully sweet souvenirs: a powder-bowl,
made out of a shell, ,
And Ted sent me a fez he took fiom a dead Turk,
But it had horrid blood-stains on it ....
He£_ lips are stained red as the blood of men.
From eight offerings the winter has to be
chosen. Boyce Bowden’s “Bandolier” is
clever; and he has made his brief lines sound
like rapid firing; but there is more in this
form than metrical virtuosity. Helen Jerome
proffers us excellent melodrama on a theme
unhappily too familiar, an echo of the Bel-
gian atrocities. O. N. Gillespie and “Up
Stage” present clean-cut impressions, lack-
ing, however, the poetry of the winning
entry. And here selection becomes so diffi-
cult that this page would almost like to
bracket the four equal. There is more
poetry and imagination in Bartlett Adam-
son’s splendid poem than in any of the
others; but iu these there is a humau quality
and a pathos that he deliberately disdains.
As it is one of the conditions of our competi-
tions that the name and address of the
winner must be published, as a guarantee to
other competitors, and “Spinster,” for obvi-
ous reasons declines to afford us that per-
mission, this page seizes this technical point
to limit the choice to one of the other three.
“Black Bonnet’s” poem hardly measures up
with that of Jean Curlewis; and, solely on
the ground that the latter’s work has a more
intimate appeal than Bartlett- Adamson’s
lofty poem, the prize is awarded to Jean
Curlewis, “Avenel,” Mosman, N.S.W., the
young daughter of the well-known Australian
writer of kiddie stories, Ethel Turner. But
the other poems mentioned in this para-
graph will appear and be paid for. First,
here is Bartlett Adamson's:—
ARMAORDDON.
Striding from star to star
Two gods went splendidly past
Across the river-shallows of the wide-flowing
slcy;
And glancing to choose the starry stepping-
stones,
They saw the world.
They saw:
The German storm advancing like ponderous
periods of jargon:
A crash of hieroglyph: an inky mass:
Over the daintily-painted page of Belgium.
They saw:
,France, like a light-foot rhythmic matador,
Leap to the ready, poise alert, and flash
A sword of light that drove the headlong
storm
Staggering backward.
They saw:
The Britannic millions: a confused crowd:
Trying to march in a line.
An awkward-squad, more or less of heroes,
Eager and disorderly as vers libre is,
Trying desperately to m,arch in a line;
Trying, and trying, and tardily
Learning the measured might of discipline,
Until their brown battalions thudded by,
Sivinginy in line.
They saw:
Russia: a slow voluminous music visible,
Rising and falling, billowing and receding,
Ebbing and flowing, flowing,
To what predestined end!
To sink maybe to caverns of woe;
Or swell and thunder to some clear ocean-
tone of exultation.
They saw:
These and others: a circle of nations
Rise and kindle a ring of sacred fire:
A prisoning wall of flame around the roaring
Black mass of storm.
They sate:
A leaden mist of mingled battle-smolce and
praying-breath and hate and woe
Creeping,
Creeping over the world and covering it;
And seething, curling into fantastic roots,
rising in rugged trunks, branching, and
forming
A forest: a grey moss on a boulder:
A monstrous forest of fog, among whose
roots
Men lived and wrought and fought and died,
Or crawled with tattered flesh and tattered
wits;
And women loved, and wept behind their
eyes;
And romping children shouted and ran, play-
ing at war.
They saw :
A luminous vapor rising slowly, sloivly,
From out the monstrous forest of fog, and
hovering
Lightly above it:
A breath: a shimmer: a haze of summer-
heat :
The visible and volatile
Souls of the multitudinous dead.
They saw:
In one keen casual ylance,
These trivial incidents of everyday:
This turmoil-tinted boulder in a stream:
This ripple of some far cyclone-passion of
creation.
And without pause,
Across the river-shallows of the wide-flowing
sky,
They passed:
Striding from star to star.
BARTLESTT ADAMSON.
And here is the winning poem :
SUBURBAN
It is eight o'clock at night,
The quiet stars are looking down into a
street of quiet suburban houses,
Behind most of the drawn blinds there is a
light shining,
It is all very quiet —
But behind every one of those windows
They know about the War.
This is a very patient people God has made:
All the day long they go about their busi-
ness,
And all the time they are being tortured
worse than ever God’s Son was tortured
on the Gross.
The mothers go about their daily busi-
ness. ~.
You ivould not think when you see them at
breakfast that they have been lying
awake since the small hours, watching
the light creep in among the shadowy
furniture,
Wondering
If he was killed while they were snatching
a feio hours sleep —
If he suffered — s
The fathers go about their daily business —
You would not think, perhaps, that they cared
very much until you meet them on the
tram and straightaway they show you
their sons' letters.
The daughters go about their daily busi-
ness —
Only the sons do not go about their busi-
ness:
They are not there.
The churches say that the God behind those
stars is all-powerful,
All-powerful-—and yet He does not stretch
out His Hand to end War!
But if God were like that I tell you that the
people would stream out of their houses
into the open and shriek and shriek
until He would have to flee away into
the uttermost recess of His heavens
So that He could not hear them.
Or, goaded into an agony of strength, they
ivould tear down the very battlements of
Heave” and seise Him where He sits in
His security thinking to judge the
people on Judgment Day,
And Judgment Day would be the day when
the people would judge God.
But instead there is the quiet radiance behind
blinds.
So I know that that God is not God at all.
The real God walks with them daily, help-
ing them —a spirit
All made up of the glory and goodness in the
hearts of the boys who were slain,
And of the tenderness in the hearts of those
that loved them.
It is after eight o'clock at night.
Clouds have blown up and blotted out the
stars,
In all the houses the War crouches menacing
and grim,
It is all very terrible....
But from every one of those windows
There is a light shining.
JEAN CURLEWIS.


acre
Anthony Horderns’ for Fashion fl Economy
n>
s
I -
T
/
9?
is
/64
>o
3J2
OXO
/352
Mo. 359. Flannelette Blouse, in Fancy Stripes, shaped front; finished with
fancy buttons 4/6
Mo. 1352. Flannelette Blouse, new silky finish, Navy or Grey, with fancy
Iting Spot; finished crystal buttons and stitching 6/6
Mo. 164. Nun’s Veiling Blouse, in Ivory, Black, Navy; finished pin-tucked
front and hemstitching ... v. ...w. 12/6
9059J9/H
nr
tk-
\Jl3o6
1
ll
wje
v\
W; \>
U, y.
v>
yyy 25/r
319.21/6'
Anthony
Horderns'
Portfolio
of
Winter
Fashions
depicts
every phase
of the
New Season's
lodes.
Write
for a
copy.
Posted
Free.
22 r
No. 2211. —Useful Coat and Skirt, of
Navy Cheviot Serge; finished smart shaped Collar,
tabs on front, and sleeves finished bone buttons;
belted at back, with box pleat from waist;
plain, well-cut Skirt 49/6
No. 9063. — Ninon and Taffeta Silk Blouse, over Net, with
the latest Bolero front, and Collar 29/6
No. 146. Crepe-de-Chine Blouse, Epaulettes, and Collar em-
broidered, trimmed hemstitching. Black, Ivory, Prunella, Amethyst,
Tan 29/6
*r
3218 2S/~
903*
2 9/6
i
B59
*6/6
W
307*
#S 2%
29/jJ
No. H 306. Crepe-de-Chine Blouse, in all colors, finished fancy front, with set-in
pockets 21/-
No. 9059.——Ninon Blouse, in Navy, Black and Ivory, with the new “Handkerchief
Front” 19/11
No. 349. — Net and Valenciennes Lace Blouse, with new sleeves, finished with
colored Ribbon under Net 24/6
No. 154. Crepe-de-Chine Blouse, embroidered Collar, trimmed with hemstitching
and fancy buttons 25/-
No. 3218. Net Blouse, in Ivory and Paris shades, neatly trimmed with Valenciennes
Lace, mounted over Net or Ninon 25/-
No. 9074. Crepe-tle-Chine Blouse, with Fichu Front and deep Sailor Collar, in Black,
Navy and Cream 29/11
No. 859. —Japanese Silk Blouse, in heavy-weight Silk, showing the latest idea of Collar
and Yoke Front, Black, Navy or Ivory 18/6
No. 9054. —Taffeta Silk Blouse, in all shades, new Collar, fastened fancy buttons 29/6
No. 85. Taffeta Silk Blouse, in all shades; the Collar is finished off with Striped
Silk 25/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


wmcaesiM
fdsg
Shotgun Shells
“Leader” and “Repeater”
For the high flyers, or the low flyero,
“Leader” and “Repeater” shells have
the reach, spread and penetration.
Their great sale is due to these qual-
ities, which insure a full bag. Use them
in your gun. To be sure to get them
ASK FOR THE W BRAND
\Y7hen you want
v *a Soap to cleanse
the skin thoroughly, keep it
in healthy condition, and
remove all traces of
perspiration —get
Calverts
Toilet Soap
A good Soap to choose for
everyday use —pure, pleasantly
perfumed and antiseptic.
In 3- tablet boxes from
local Chemists & Dealers.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.
Manchester, England.
are: you n
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? •Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE ' UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
••egarding -our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. ‘ The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom.' The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
r J
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Z- —s-
-4
—i
K
m
•CO
y
m
?V /-"\
s . On
Reliability Supremacy
exclusively Held by the Ariel
Unrivalled in excellence of construction and in efficiency of
road service, there i-s no rival to Ariel Reliability—no
challenger to dispute its reliability supremacy. Read
this:
The Ariel is the only motor-cycle that has ever secured in one season
the Team Prizes in the English and Scottish Six Days’ Trials, and
the First Prize in the Irish End-to-End Trial.
If you insist that your after-war motor-cycle must be an all-quality machine
—speedy, powerful, economical and consistently reliable—you are going to be
an Ariel owner.
Ariel Pedal Cycles have given equally good service for over lfi years.
32-PAGE ART LIST MAILED POST FREE.
ARIEL WORKS LTD.
36 BOURNBROOK,
BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street.
ADELAIDE: 153 Bundle Street.
MELBOURNE: Elizabeth Street.
sfd
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
gs
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works; Birmingham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TRADE MARK
Great
Chances for
Sportsmen S Farmers!
FURTHER
REDUCTIONS.
dg
6 ONLY D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, choke bore, walnut stock, pistol grip,
fitted with W. W. Greener patent wedge-fast crossbolt.
Usual Price, £5/15/-. SALE PRICE, £3/15/-
i ONLY CHAMPION HAMMERLESS D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, walnut stock,
pistol grip, steel barrel. Usual Price, £lO. SALE PRICE, £6/6/-
6 ONLY 5.8.8. L. DUCK GUNS, long distance, top action, kill at over 100
, yards. Usual Price, £5. SALE PRICE, £3/10/-
FARMERS’ D.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 50/-. SALE PRICE, 27/6.
FARMERS’ S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 20/-
Colt’s Lightning REPEATING RIFLES, to hold 12 shots.
Usual Price, £6/6/-. SALE PRICE, £3/5/.
S.B. RABBIT RIFLES, kill at 100 yards. Price, 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12/6.
Repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen.
Send for our Illustrated Cataloaue —Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARMS CO.. 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
A Resident of Richmond, N.S.W., writes of the Value of
CLEMENTS TONIC,
and the Letter Tells its Own Story.
William Street Richmond.
N.S.W., S/10/’l5.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD,
“A few words of thanks to you for the good your wonderful medicine has done
for me: I think that I have been one of the greatest of dyspeptics on record, suffering
with weakness, lassitude, bad headaches, and my nerves. were in a very bad state.
“I tried many remedies, but they did not do me any good. My mother has great
faith in your wonderful tonic, and lias used it on and off for years, with excellent
results.
“She advised me to give Clements Tonic a trial, and it was a happy day for me
that I bought three bottles. It increased my appetite and strengthened my nerves
and body. Every dose seems to make me feel stronger, and I can now eat and sleep
well. I sincerely trust that other sufferers will benefit by its timely aid.
"You may use this as you deem fit, as it is all the truth.
“(Signed) MARY O’BRIEN.”
Mrs. MAY SWEENY, of Macquarie Street, Parramatta, writes, on 7/4/16. the story
of how she tested Clements Tonic in a recent illness. Here is what the test
proved:—
“In the latter end of 1014 I tested your medicine. The results, were so good I feel
under a deep debt to Clements Tonic.
“My daughter, who is 17 years of age, appeared amemic, and she had lost all the
freshness that youth should possess.
“She was listless, without energy, with unstrung nerves. Clements Tonic soon
transformed her to a bright, healthy girl.”
Mrs. LOUISA JANE DALEY, of 413 Church Street. Parramatta, writes a Clements
Tonic letter of interest to women (5/4/16).
“I am glad to relate what Clements Tonic has done for me.
“It was in December last I had occasion to take it. Through not weaning my
baby. I fell away in weight, my strength failed, until 1 was on the verge of collapse.
“Through the counsel of a friend I took Clements Tonic, and its effect on me was
a revelation. I have found it also invaluable for indigestion. Use this as you wish.
THE NURSE ARYISED CLEMENTS TONIC.
In this case. .Mrs. CATHERINE FREEMAN, of Short Street, North Parramatta,
suffered from nervous prostration. Here is her story of recovery, written
5/4/16:—
“Your medicine has been a blessing to me. I could not have done without it. I
suffered from nervous prostration. 1 could scarcely keep on my feet. My head
whirled round continually.
“Finally 1 took to bed. I had a nurse to look after me. She advised me to take
Clements Tonic. I took a good course of it. I was soon able to get out of bed and
perform my household duties again. Use this as you think best.”
. You cannot do better than keep this medicine handy. Use it when you feel
fatigued, listless and nervy. For want of sleep, poor appetite, sluggish liver and sick
headache it is invaluable. Try it. All Chemists and Stores sell it.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


CELEBRATED
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young —hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart fl
Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the following state-
ment: Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth and
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
water add loz. of bay rum and a small box
of Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of the hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff. — Advt. [2
ONTSERR
SAUCE
ADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
ONTSERRAT
IME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
M
ESS
'* l * •iniMii 1
AVON
A TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort,
it takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post vou a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blaclcall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for H days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.’ >
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
- [2.
A
In Grandpa’s Courting Days
—Yes, as long ago as that —there was a standard, safe-
and-sure, proved effective family remedy for
all throat and chest troubles, and its name was
To-day it is still the safest, speediest,
surest Remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis Whooping Cough and
•nfluenza, relief of Asthma and a
preventive of Pneumonia. If it isn’t
Bonnington’s it isn’t any good.
Large & Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
fds
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes —and must have —the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food — a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
MeNii&Rxxl
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an artificial food.
Set out to feed
babyright. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Me lin’s
Feeding Boti.e
has most adva -
ta res. A ti ial
convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with useful Handbook for Mothers, “The
Care of Infams in Australia,” will be sent post Free. Write to-day to
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
gfd
To suffer witli fortitude is
heroic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect—the neglect of simple
rules of health.
OF all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system ; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the muscu-
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid, braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
gd
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL. BRITISH TOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E.GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen). Ltd., 6B Deansgate Arcade, Manchester. England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dreamer.
Of my farm on the Connaught hills I do be
dreaming.
Neat and decent, as such things should be;
Cows and pigs, and a wheat-field gleaming—
Two acres of that, and of bog-land three.
The strong man I was when I drained the
bog-land,
Wide of the shoulder, and thick of the
thigh ;
Great weights could I lift with the swing
of my one hand,
Small leaves on the hillside grew clear to
my eye.
And Mary, herself (och, cream was her fine
throat,
Her cheek smooth as cherry skin) kept
the house neat
As the ankles that peeped from the swing
of her petticoat—
Och, but the evening’s meat tasted too
sweet!
’Tis long dreams I dream of the fairs and
the games of strength,
Of the fairings we bought, and the dance on
the green;
My foot was the lightest, ’tis strange a
man grows at length
Glad, when he moves, on his blackthorn
to lean.
Wide does the land stretch, a field with no
hedge at all,
Never the one man reap it his lone;
’Tis a land for the young, for in old age
the heart grows small
And longs for the close hedge to circle his
own.
’Tis lonely I sit with my old §tick between
my knees
(From the dear friends and Connaught I
came far away,
Braving the storms of the wide seas, the
grey seas),
With my pipe and my dreams at the close
of the day.
N.S.W.
JOHN EGAN.
Vignette.
Tree upon the scarred spur. .
Black mountain myrtle,
Standing grim and silent like a monk cloaked
and cowled ;
Young pine for pilgrim staff,
Ilimony for girdle,
Rosary and crucifix
All of white foam-berries
Strung by Montezuma while the pole-storms
howled.
Myrtle on the cleft spur!
When the deep thunder
Rolled among the mountain’s ribs as through
a skeleton,
Deep and deep your feet they set
In the glacier furrow;
Rain and wind and cloud-kiss
Spoke with you and loved you ;
Strange strong things caressed you while
the wild stars shone. -
Waratah with flame feet
Through the sunny weather,
Twinkling like a leprachaun of world-old
tale,
To the chime of Christmas bells
March the Gordon lilies,
Blowing golden trumpets.
O dauntless little people
That dared the level lances of the' West Coast
hail!
Years o’ days, years o’ days!
Sun-calm and storm-time!
Gold and red of Autumn leaves —so I turn
and dream ;
Dream again of Hamilton,
Myrtle-crowned and wistful....
Wizard priests intoning
In a temple olden
And across the silences the wild eyne’s
scream.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
Moon-Mirth.
Dip me a gallon of golden mirth
Out of your well, y maide. moon,
Bubbling, doubling over the earth—
Dimpled joy of a starry noon.
Ladle me laughing bowls of light
Giddily glad from pools of bliss,
Winking, blinking beads of delight—*
Weal and wine of a woman’s kiss.
Dear little moon, when the world goes wrong
I and my love look up to you,
Flowering, showering laughter and song
Over the land the long night through.
Oh, for a glass of your gaiety.
Fair little moon, to spill o’er men,
Pearling, whirling all of them free.
Making them lovers like us again.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Dawdling Song.
In a wee
Golden boat
(Do they see
You and me?).
We’re afloat
On a stream
Smooth as glass,
Green as grass,
Sweet as dream.
Naiads fair
Gaze at us
Loitering there;
Tawny hair
Odorous,
Mouths aswoon,
Eyes ag10w....
Bless the slow
Afternoon!
Lilies yearn
As we look,
Lotus burn
Just astern.
Every nook
On the strand
Holds a gleam...
Happy dream!
Happy Land!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


s
■
m
Perdriau Tyres
REDUCE FRICTION and you REDUCE
wear. The broad flat tread of the 3= rib
PERDRIAU is purposely designed without
“knobs” or “fancy tread ” so that its con=
tact with the road may be made with as
little rubbing motion as possible.
The PERDRIAU rolls on the road—does
not rub against it, and that is the secret of
the big PERDRIAU mileages to=day.
o
>
n
□
*
$
§
Perdriau Special Heavy Red Rubber Tubes.
It is just as important to know that your motor tubes are as reliable as your
tyres. The HEART of the tyre is the TUBE, and the “ heart” of the Tube
depends upon (1) the Quality and (2) the Quantity of Rubber used.
It is a fact that PERDRIAU Tubes are heavier than any other make and that
the quality cannot be improved.
“KEEP THE HOME TYRES TURNING.’’
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH NEWCASTLE.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENVER
u
PRICES
■Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing; our ELASTIC
TRUSS,which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers
281 George St. # SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
<?VV3^
sg
sfd
1
NTOy\H
As welcome as the return of the dove to
Noah is the sight of the “Plume” sign to
the Motorist who is running short of Spirit.
Once more equipped with “Plume” he feels
safe and prepared for any eventualities.
“Plume” is a live Spirit that vaporises
quickly and assures a speedy “ pick-up.”
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting Sweet Running More Miles
The ready response of the “Plume”
Motor Spirit makes it a firm favorite with
motorists. “Plume” is famed for its easy
starting, besides giving more mileage and
ensuring a clean cylinder.
Correct Lubrication
To keep your car new you must lubricate
correctly. Gargoyle Mobiloils furnish the
correct lubrication. “A grade for each
type of Motor.” Our Recommendation
Chart—mailed free upon request—will show
you the grade to use in your Car. For sale
at all dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
11
\®£jz& s
&U'/
gsdf
g
Why Regular (or Under-sized)
Metric Tyres are Generally
Over-loaded!
AIR-PRESSURE, when based upon
size-of-Tyre, can be a very mis-
leading measure.
This when the Load is not carefully
considered, or varies widely on different
occasions.
The Tyres of a Seven-Passenger Car,
if carrying usually only two people at
correct Pressure for Seven , might prove
much over-inflated for the Comfort of
only two people—the then surplus pres-
sure resulting in excessive Vibration and
Jar.
That would be unsatisfactory, of
course!
But, a Two-Passenger Car, if forced to
carry Seven Passengers, would be much
worse.
Because, the excessive Load would then
flatten the Tyres away beyond the proper
14%-of-contact-with-the-earth —wear their
Fabric Walls out prematurely—and burn
them out through the excessive Heat of
Friction generated between the layers of
flattened portion of Fabric.
Excessive Load therefore interprets into
practically the same results as would the
use of UNDER-SIZED Tyres.
SUCH excessive Load, on Under-Sized
Tyres, is usually, and necessarily,
compensated for by the use of an
exceedingly high Air-Pressure in the
Tubes.
By such means only can the flattened
portion of Tyre be lifted off the ground,
up to the proper 14%-of-Tyre-Diameter
contact.
But;, when so lifted, the necessarily
high Air-Pressure not only tends to strain
the ,Fabric of the Tyre, through danger-
ously increased tension, but also causes
excessive Vibration, through over-infla-
tion.
This would, in turn, promptly show it-
self in discomfort to Car-Occupants—in
deterioration of Car-Mechanism, and in
shortened Mileage of Tyres.
That explanation, on the use of Under-
Sized Tyres, should now interest every
Car-Owner
Because, Car-Owners can prove, for
themselves, that ad millimeter “fabric’
Tyres made in Europe are UNDER-
SIZED (not Goodrich t wpO.
THE Calipers—or any other depend-
able Measure —will prove that the
so-called “815 x 105 m/m” Tyres —
for instance —actually measure only about
815 x 96—815 x 97—815 x 98—815 x 99
—SIS x 101, according to the make, when
purchased new. Other sizes in propor-
tion.
This condition freely interprets into the
necessity for either buying high-priced
“ Over-Sizes ” of metric Tyres, to carry
the Load properly, at the proper Air-
Pressure —
Or
Buying FULL-SIZED GOODRICH
Tyres, which measure up (even when
new) to the exact dimensions their “Size”
specifications call for.
These, at no higher cost to Consumers
than same quality of “regular” (or
UNDER-SIZED) Tyres in all other
Metric Makes.
Now, which will you have, Reader? —
The FULL-SIZED Goodrich Tyres, or
Under-Sized Tyres of other Metric Makes
—at same price to you for same quality !
GOODRICH
FULL-
SIZED
DUVAL & CO.
13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
145 Collins Street, Melbourne
303 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
TYRES


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1944.
THU US DAY, MAY 17, 1917.
Price 6d'
THE NERVOUS CONQUEROR.
CESAR: “Let me have men about me that are fat....
Yon Cassius has a lean and hungry look;
He thinks too much; such men are dangerous."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have Thf.
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any addreSs abroad, £1 10s. per
arm um.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Bittiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 8000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.c., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions -under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon,
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
11. C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver , lI.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.: Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street , Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single conies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bhoz. to 10oz., Bid.;
lOos. to IBoz., 3d.; elsewhere, koz., Id., and §d. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 17, 1917.
AUSTRALIA LOSES AN ADVANCED
TRENCH.
The defeat of the Australian party at the
polls and the triumph of the Imperialistic
outcry are convincing facts. With an excellent
platform of reforms, the party behind Tudor
has received a practical knock-out, and the
Phewsion, frankly opposed to doing anything
for this Commonwealth, has been returned
to power. On the theory that the job of
legislators was to win-the-war and that a
man selected to make laws could best earn his
screw by making none, the Cook-Hughes t
combine boldly appealed to the country and
got a vote of confidence. What they can do
towards winning the war more than their
opponents would have done is not evident;
nor is it clear how a programme of progres-
sive legislation would have retarded final
victory. These things are great mysteries,
the key of which is held only by the secret
party conclaves who sit to discuss the fate
of empire; but the electors of the Common-
wealth have swallowed the amazing guff
handed out to them; and the Tory and
foreign-trader smile broadly at their reprieve.
Of course, the dominant interest of the war
itself had much to do with the result. The
unfortunate and illogical opposition of the
Labor party to the principle of conscription
had suggested to many people that Labor
was not whole-hearted in its desire to smash
the Germans; and as its present leaders
failed to put their case with force and
clarity, the person with the ballot-pencil
took their partial silence for a confession
that they were all the Imperialists declared
them to be. As at the New South Wales
State elections, much use was also made of
an alleged connection of the P.L.L. with
the 1.W.W.; and, although nobody with even
a slender knowledge of the actual political
position believed this, the statement was
accepted at face value by enough people to
influence the total vote. That Hughes had
himself, up to the moment of his involuntary
expulsion from Labor, heen in exactly
the same position in regard to the I.W.W.
as his recent colleagues who now opposed
him was forgotten or ignored. Toryism,
supported by a section of outcast Laborites,
hacked the win-the-war clamor by anything
that came handy; and as it had no policy
to expound it had plenty of time for insinua-
tion.
But the decision of the electors of the
Commonwealth, whatever the causes that led
up to it, hits sent, the Australian party back
to relace its boots and rearrange its punch,
while the Imperialists continue in office and
devote their whole strength to a considera-
tion of somebody else’s efforts to win the
war. Labor has plenty of. faults. Its trust
in party machinery and reliance on organisa-
tion rather than on leadership and propa-
ganda were bound sooner or later to produce
a reaction ; and its insistence on blind fidelity
to a platform rather than broad trust in the
people as a whole was a violation of the
foundation principles of democracy. Admit-
ting all these things and seeking in no
way to palliate or excuse them, the Labor
movement does stand and must still stand
for Australia. Its platform has always
been better than its achievement; and the
great problem now' before the party is the
best mode of strengthening its fighting
force. To get and to hold office is not
the purpose of the : big and honest move-
ment which so lately seemed to have the ball
at its feet. To have the mere name of Labor
triumphant and a few of its representatives
drawing the cash of office is nothing. In the
State of New South Wales we have seen
Labor in power for a period of years and
the work of putting the main planks of the
party’s platform into effective legislation
still practically untouched. In the Common-
wealth sphere we have seen allegedly Labor
men acting in their administrative capacity
with an utter disregard for the spirit of the
democracy which they professed to serve.
In both State and Federal activities the
tendency to put party above principle and to
sacrifice great deeds for the sake of small
victories has been very marked. Australia
is not tired of Labor thought or Labor
dos’Te, but Australia is pretty sick of the
failure of men to do the job they were sent
to do. There are any number of men
attached to the skirts of Labor whose only
idea is to get an extra shilling or two a day:
but the great’ bulk of those who have given
the movement their honest and unselfish sup-
port have bigger aims and seek only the
general good. It is these men who consti-
tute the verv heart and soul of Aus-
tralianism, and whose splendid efforts have
hitherto been dwarfed by the unworthiness
of a party machine which could coerce but
could not inspire or control.
* * * *
To defeat tlie llughes-Cook combine in
Parliament need be no part of the work of
the minority in the House of Representatives
and the Senate. That unholy combine in
restraint of Australia will defeat itself
thoroughly and convincingly if left to its
own devices. The Imperialistic yell which
is its only stock-in-trade wjll soon wear thin ;
and the alleged win-the-war policy, which is
really a policy of hide-behind-the-censor-apd-
do-nothing, will be known soon enough by
the people for the sorry jest it is. Hughes
can be counted upon for a continuance of
his noisy masquerade as the saviour of
empire; Cook can be absolutely relied on
for unimaginative futility; and Pearce will
never slack from his tame-cat job in an
atmosphere of mystery ard amusing so'crecy.
With forces like these fighting for them in
the political arena the Australians can afford
to leave the Imperialists to their victory and
devote themselves to the job of reconstruc-
tion. Primary government by means of the
Referendum and Initiative, as outlined in
Tudor’s recent speeches, must be brought to
the front and got into working order. It
was a plank in the Labor platform which
held an honored position when Labor looked
as if it could never climb to power; and
now that Labor is im against’its. job, its
real importance returns. The lesson is an
obvious one and one which cannot be evaded.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Price, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Weight. 214
George Street, Sydney.]
LITANY OF THE MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have sweated and, sought and failed and
fought for the better of three red years.
Some of us damned —we shall damn again—
the deeds of our braver peers.
There is never a skirmish we have not seen
but we judged it from toe to head,
Never a slur that we might have burked, but
we cast it at quick and dead.
The ravelled skein of our past lay plain, to
spoil or to clear and use;
And we knotted and mauled till the loose
was tight, and the erstwhile tight was
loose.
We have sparred with shadows, and sat and
screamed in the dust like an angry
child,
We have paused to breathe while the foe-
man sat on the farther shore and
smiled!
Lobd, we have called and crawled for men,
and the men who were ours to take
Wondered and hungered, were maimed, and
begged—for the land’s benignant sake!
It has come to pass that the great things
wax, and the little things recede;
And the ear that was glad with a deedless
phrase is sick for a phraseless deed.
Fill for us, Father, the need of men since
warring and men began—
Not votes or vaporings, gold or Spoil,
Not men—our need is a Man!
Thou knowest we’ve done what men may do
with the little we’ve had to hand;
And the strawless bricks that we made were
fair —though scarcely the kind we’d
planned!
Seen by the light of the wit we owned was
our statesmanship complete;
For he who knows not the living God may
bow at ju-ju’s feet!
A reed that should bend, but never break,
our £mall souls satisfied;
But a reed that is lissome to every wind is
Hell!- —we have leaned and tried!
Were a racehorse bred from a butcher’s
hack, we would win at an easy walk;
If a gun were foal to a Senate speech, we
had conquered the w mid with talk.
Yet there’s never a doubt but our way is
right—as the proofs have testified —
For the race we’ve won (in our minds) is
run, and the runners are home and
dried! „ T
Yet such is our make —-we are finite, Lord,
not infinite as Thou—-
That a lingering,, doubt of a limit reached
remains to us even now.
So, only to buttress our lesser strength, to
widen our mental span.
Send us, to prove and to perfect us.
Not men, O Lord —but a Man!
We have fought and scrambled for place and
pence, while the ships gaped void at the
docks:
We have tinkered with measure and party-
clause, edict and ballot-box.
We have painted and prinked our foible out
with the colors our care had stored ;
And backed for a little to view our work—
and it wasn’t a picture, Lord !
Money we held, and we paid it out in ways
that were slack and strange;
For he is a fool who abides by rule and a
slave who cavils at change!
The things we sought that we did not find,
the places we did not look,
They were never seen on a picture-screen,
they were never writ in a book !
We chased our tails as a kitten would —and
the chasing made us mad —-
But the men who led us called it. right—
Lord, they were all we had!
We have taken a brand-new canvas out, we
have flourished the outlines in ;
We are making a start for the hundredth
time. Lord, show us how to begin!
We cherish a dream of a color-scheme, the
lilting of lines that scan,
We are weary of lung and of unslacked
tongue—
O Master, give us a Man!
“A child may lead” —but the written screed
bv these shall stand defiled,
For they be men with bodies of men, and
the wit of a little child.
They turn the key of the treasure-chest, they
tilt the bag unbound;
They pour the gold through a seam-split
purse in waste on the sterile ground.
Oh, never yet did a spender grudge, or leave
his lust to lack
While a stranger lent what he pouched or
spent, and a stranger paid it back.
The forest and farm are ripe for toil, the
land is our Treasury ;
Yet the tongue is lighter than axe or spade,
and the coffer is Made—let be!
What do they reck of a bed of thorns whose
shoulders on down recline?
Should he lift his nose from the tilting pot,
whose brother pays for the wine—
Who, having drunken, wipes - his mouth and
settles with good advice
His score from the chimney, stirring not—
and calls it meet at the price?
Handle us, sift us, con us through, coterie,
creed and clan—
Lord, there is nothing we want so much —•
Not quite so much —as a Man!
We have taught ourselves to examine our-
selves ; and our thoughts are thorns that
prick.
We have added them on to Your thoughts of
us and the total has made us sick !
For never a boy with a paper cap, who
played with a wooden sword,
Was half so sorry a brigadier as some of
Your servants, Lord!
We have drawn a line that we thought was
straight, and finished where we’d begun;
We have settled our bill with a thousand
cheques where it might have been paid
with one.
We have walked in circles more than once
(we have talked in circles, too!) ;
And the net result is a concrete pain in a
spot that is known to You.
We have gulped our quaff with alacrity,
we’ve worshipped the World and Flesh;
And the retrospect of a thing is awe! Lord,
we would start, afresh!
The things wc lack that we ought to have,
the things that we’d like to drop—
Show us the road to the goal of both —-where
to begin and stop!
Give us the brain that shall weave our pain
to the web that our dreamings plan-
Not fame or treasure or ships or spoil—
A man, Lord, send us a Man!
VICTORIA.
J. Alex. Allan.
THE AUSTRALIAN SENATE AND A
THROTTLED DEMOCRACY.
An address to the congregation:—
And now,' brethren, having talked for
many years about our great democratic
institutions and government of the people by
the people, and having fluted at great length
about juntas and the responsibility of Par-
liament to the nation, and the representa-
tion of parties and opinions in the sovereign
tribunal of the Commonwealth, let us con-
sider the Australian Senate. Particularly let
the elector who favored the party known as
Labor, always blind to the precarious nature
of its place in Australian politics, consider
this Senate. And let not the elector who is
by way of being a Liberal or a- Phewsionist,
or he who is neither of these, things, but
hearkens unto the loudest yell, close his ears
nor cover up his eyes. Labor has just been
flung out of . the Senate with a loud bang,
even as Liberalism was thrown out. in years
gone by. But it would ill become Liberal-
ism to be puffed up with pride at this cir-
cumstance, for the day may come when it
too will be flung off the premises—when it
will go before the electors confident as
Labor was a week or two ago of saving its
bacon, and awake to find itself in the mud.
Brethren, the Australian Senate is an acci-
dent. Its every aspect is a parody on repre-
sentative government!. To the Australian
people it is as dangerous as dynamite-—and
in all the experimentation made with parlia-
mentary government it is the people who
must count, not parties and not politicians. A
House of Parliament in which large masses
of the people are denied representation is a
mockery of popular government. Even
though it may in theory be based upon the
popular vote, it nlay in practice be found to
so distort this vote as to become even more
objectionable than houses of parliament rest-
ing upon a narrow franchise or even upon
nomination or the accidents of birth.
How does this Senate of ours respond to
the test of being democratic —or even of
being representative of Australian political
opinion? Go back a year or two. At the
election of 1910, for 18 Senators 2,106,521
votes were recorded in favor of Labor candi-
dates, 1,973,789 for Liberals. This Repre-
sents 51 per cent, of the electors supporting
one set of principles or policies, or. some-
thing, and 49 per cent, in opposition. The
result of the election was that 51 per cent,
of the people returned 100 per cent, of
Senators. Labor got IS seats, the other push
none —and Labor sang hymns of praise over
the joke and the Liberals wept and gnashed
their teeth. There was another election of
18 Senators in 1913. Labor polled 50.05 per
cent, of the votes, and these put 11 (or 61
per c-eut.) Senators where they wanted to
get. The remaining 49.95 per cent, of vote-
could only shove seven (or 39 per cent.)
Senators into Parliament. Then followed
the double dissolution of 1914, when Aus-
tralia had to elect a full Senate of 36 mem-
bers. For the Labor candidates 6,234,878
votes (or 53.13 per cent, of the whole) were
recorded. These were enough to annex 31
for 86 per cent.) of the seats. For liberal
candidates 5,499,237 votes could only secure
five (or 14 per cent.) of the seats. And
again Labor, with a majority of 26 Senators,
joyfully disported itself around the landscape
and called upon the public to rejoice at what
had happened. This was that the Labor pro-
gramme being supported by one-sixteenth
more of the population than was opposed to
it: was in the Senate guarded by Senators six
times more numerous than their opponents.
Labor described this as a “sweeping victory.”
It orated triumphantly about “the vote of
confidence given by the people.” It made
jocular comparisons between the miserable
little contingent of five Liberals and the 31
victorious Laborites thrown up from the
ballot-box. It was a great party win, true
enough. Also it was a smack in the face for
every man with the stuff of a democrat in
him. On no ground could this preposterous
over-representation of the majority be de-
fended. But it carried its own nemesis
The majority Senators saw nothing but their
own 31 and the ridiculous five. They forgot
the people outside. They overlooked that
the margin between their own 61 milfion votes
and the 5* million votes belonging to electors
who had been virtually muzzled was mighty
narrow. They Save leisure now to inspect
the same thing turned upside. At. the
Senate elections just completed not a single
Labor candidate, was returned. Phewsion
grabbed 18 seats, and it is morally certain
that had the whole Senatorial bunch
been up for judgment there would not to-day
be one Labor man in the Senate. Yet there
were 2,750,000 votes cast at the ballot against
3,250,000 votes for Phews. One side gets
all the available representation ; the 2,750,000
no more than if it lived in Timbuctoo. You
will have observed that Liberalism rejoices
at this, even as Labor did in its hours of
ignorant inflation years ago. For the poli-
tician living from hand to mouth, who inter-
prets everything in terms of his own or his
party’s immediate success, . there may seem
some measure of poetic justice in the happen-
ings of the other day—provided, of course,
he is not on the side presented with the
boot. But does any Australian citizen with
a free mind imagine that a democracy can
govern itself by accidents? Can it be sup-
posed that the banishment of opinion from
Parliament is desirable, or that an institu-
tion in which rival political sentiments are
alternately throttled is distinguishable from
tyranny? The argument that nearly three
million votes which missed the ’bus can cap-
ture all the accommodation in the vehicle
next time if they are reinforced by a frac-
tional percentage of the votes which went
the other way, is not intended for serious
attention. It Implies leaving public affairs
to the determination of a handful of electors,
and these the most unstable of their kind. It
means saying that government ought to be
the monopoly of the stragglers who might be
cut out of either one of two mobs. These
jests lead nowhere but to muddle, unless it
may be to ruin. Most men would like to hear
some reason why they should not regard this
last election as additional evidence that the
Australian Senate is an insult to Australian
democracy—and always has been. It repre-
sents a survival of medievalism.
* * * #
In constitutional theory the Senate is not
merely a second chamber of revision ; it is
more. It is the chamber in which the States,
considered as separate entities and corpo-
rate parts of the Commonwealth, are repre-
sented. The States are thus represented in
order that they may maintain and protect
their constitutional rights against invasion:
to give them opportunity for advocacy ot
their special interests as States and ventila-
tion of their grievances. Around this ques-
tion fierce controversy raged in the pre-
Federation era, the net result of which was
a series of compromises with fact, experience,
hope and resulting in the manu-
facture of a Senate in which representation
is purely territorial, the constitutional idea
being that the States, not the people thereof,
are represented. Thus was supposed to be
crystallised all human wisdom in relation to
second chambers. In practice the Senate
has not been a State House or anything lik.
one—nor even a chamber of revision. State
considerations have not weighed in its selec-
tion. It is just a collection of partisans,
elected on party tickets, playing a strenuous
hand in the party game—a duplication, so
to speak, of the House of Representatives.
In 16 years it has been proved not once or
twice but many times that the functions the
Senate was designed to perform have been
obliterated, and that Australia has a Parlia-
ment vitally differing from the one it
reckoned on having. In some respects the
Australian Senate is the most powerful
second chamber in the world. But it rests
on a basis as false as a judge’s wig. James
Bryce, in “Studies in History and Juris-
prudence,” writing of it, says:—
It embodies an experiment full of instruction for
the future. The statesmen of the Convention whiefi
framed this latest addition to the world’s stock o.
Instruments of Government passed in review all pre-
vious experiments, found in them examples to follow
and other examples to shun, and drew from theta thf
best essence of the teachings they were fltten to
impart. When the Convention delivered its highly-
finished scheme of policy it delivered judgment upon,
the work of all who had gone before.


And what that Convention thought it had
made it had not made. The judgment of
experience will be upon a scheme almost
opposite to what the framers of the Consti-
tution had in view. At the election just over
what State interests were at stake? What
candidate or elector thought of State as
opposed to national interests or party pro-
grammes? Not one. The community was
divided into warring groups, of which one
was struggling to get a majority in the
Senate in order to hamstring the House of
Reps, on national issues; another was fight-
ing to get a majority in order that Parlia-
ment might not be paralysed. The
bi-cameral system of Parliamentary govern-
ment is one of the unsolved problems of
democracy all the world over, and there is
nothing Australia can point to to-day to show
that the Commonwealth has got any nearer
to perfection than any other country. The
Senate is Federal in conception—therefore
it is anti-national. Its attempts to function
as a national body are futile, for it is
parochial in composition.
But the status of the Senate in the
Commonwealth outfit is of less direct import-
ance just now than the system on which the
Senators are elected. Whatever its place
may be in theory or its functions in actual
practice the system of election (the French
scrutin de list ) is not defensible. It begins
by giving one political party or another a
ridiculous majority, and ends by denying
every other party a chance to participate
in the responsibilities of government. . It
sells the electorates body and bones to the
partisan with the loudest howl or the most
complete organisation. There is the bizarre
possibility that a single voter in each of the
six States might by his scrap of paper make
millions of votes ineffective and hand control
of the Senate over to a single party. Thei’e
is the certainty every time of the Senate
being as misrepresentative of State and
national opinion as if the election took place
in Mesopotamia. Take N. S. Wales. There,
approximately, 1,100,000 votes have elected
the three Senators: 1,000,000 votes none.
In Bananaland 400,000 votes return three
members; 390,000 votes were as inoperative
as if they numbered two. All that great
body of opinion represented by these
1,390,000 votes in two States is denied a
share of expression ; 1,400,000 votes monop-
olise the situation. To call this a joke
hardly describes it. And the worst of it is
that every time this kind of thing happens
the people who immediately benefit naturally
become convinced that change must not be
thought of. Labor saw the injustice and
danger of it all and rubbed its hands and
said “Thank God.” Liberalism makes the
same remark —and all the time the Senate
is drifting into the position of being the
stronghold of reaction, whether Labor or the
other crowd has ama jority. Both sides want
to have it so—according to whether one or
the other is on top. Hughes in days gone
by defended misrepresentation in the Senate.
His only regret now is that the misrepresen-
tation is not even greater. But the Senate,
whatever it may be, cannot be taken by the
Australian democracy as a refuge for poli-
ticians. If half of the people are refused a
hearing the community might as well not
have a vote —for it is useless. Proportional
representation and the preferential vote
might afford some relief from all this mass
of absurdity, but not so long as State repre-
sentation is equal. And if State representa-
tion were not equal and there was represen-
tation of people and political opinion instead
of mere earth, then the Senate would not
be what the Constitution contemplated, and
talk about its existence and powers be
away ' back at the starting-point. That
is where the Senate and the Constitution is
now. Failure is written all over it.
Representative government in Australia is
on a basis of strangulation, and a Constitu-
tion which from foundation upwards is one
the people reckoned they were not having
anything to do with.
[To express the views of The Bulletin, by S. H.
Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214 George
Street, Sydney.)
PLAIN ENGLISH.
When Religion Refuses to Be Made a
Political Catspaw.
The deadlock which is supposed to have
beep reached in England with regard to Irish
Home Rule is apparently purely an affair
of British politicians. The latest indications
from Ireland itself seem to point to a grow-
ing feeling of unity. Of course, the rem-
nants of the Sinn Fein don’t join in, and the
Orangeman still beats his drum with violence
to the memory of a dead Teutonic prince;
but when the names of three Protestant
bishops are found side by side with those of
15 Catholic ones demanding that there shall
be no partition of the island, it looks as if
commonsense were winning out. The sup-
posed religious differences of Ireland, magni-
fied for political reasons by people in Eng-
land, have never had t he influence on politics
that Orangemen and Engish Tories assert.
Ireland’s very best rebels have been Pro-
testant, and many of her most beloved
national leaders have adhered to the same
faith. It was Protestant enthusiasm that
stormed the town of Antrim in the face of
eavalry and artillery, and it was Protestant
statesmanship that won a brief respite from
the madness of ages when Grattan secured
a free Irish Parliament in Dublin. Anybody
who knows Ulster knows that the Orange-
men who profess to stand most for sec-
tarianism work least for their religion; and
that if it wasn’t for the seriousness of a sec-
tion of Englishmen who mistake yell for
religious conviction the controversy between
green and orange would never have been
presented as a struggle between church sys-
tems. Thierry, the French historian of the
Norman Conquest and the things that sprang
from it, records that in the United Ireland
insurrection both priest and parson made
this clear. One rebel went to the scaffold at
Carrickfergus attended by a priest and two
Presbyterian ministers. If the commonsense
of Irish Protestant clerics would now come
to the rescue, and following the lead of the
three _ bishop*, state plainly in English ears
the simple truth that no churckgoing Irish-
man is in the least danger from his Catholic
neighbors, it might make even Edward
Carson realise that the so-called Ulster
movement is a loud-mouthed futility. But
Carson has enough on his hands at the
Admiralty just at present; and his prosecu-
tion of his share of the war doesn’t seem to
be of a kind to increase his hold on English
opinion. In fact, there are unkind critics
who say that they begin to realise what
Ulster’s conduct of a civil war under his
leadership would have been like and who
even hint that the no-surrender business,
backed by three-and-sixpenny German rifles,
wouldn’t have hurt much.
Perverted Democraticism.
“0.K.”: Richmond (Melb.) Town Council,
being mostly animated by the unpleasantly
democratic spirit of Webber, M.L.A., has
granted licenses for the establishment of
fellmongeries on the Yarra at Richmond,
whereby the whole scheme for making miles
i of river bank beautiful may be reduced to an
absurdity, or something very like it. _ A first
protest, made by the more aesthetic' rate-
payers of Richinond to the Board of Health,
seems doomed to failure, inasmuch as fell-
mongery stinks are not physically unhealthy;
so the outcry has been taken up by Melb.
City Council and the Public Works Depart-
ment, on the “public nuisance” ticket. Obvi-
ously the smellful industries aforesaid would
have to be de-licensed some time or other;
the nuisance couldn’t continue forever in a
crowded residential district, near to the
beauty spots of Melbourne city, and if it is
admitted that the fellmongeries would be
bound to disappear, sooner or later, even
Webber, M.L.A., cannot give any convincing
excuse for encouraging an objectionable stink
in the meantime. The kindest supposition re
these licenses granted by the Richmond Coun-
cil is that they were intended to assert
Labor’s claim to select convenient fields of
industry, without the least regard to the
bloated indignation of adjacent propputy-
owners. Rather than suspect the councillors
of any personal business interests in the
matter, one would ascribe their action to a
kink in their good democratic understanding.
The writer looks back to the time when the
beautification of St. Ivilda-road was in its
infancy, and there was talk of the arrange-
ments in view whereby the unlovely fac-
tories of South Melbourne would be put out
of sight of St. Kilda-road travellers. Then,
also, did democracy (with a kinked under-
standing) protest against the mstheticism of
those people who would put ugly things out
of public evidence if there be no just cause
on reason why it should not be done. Half-
baked Socialists wrote to The Bulletin
about it, evidently expecting the journal to
sympathise with the idea that no selfish
capitalist should be allowed to avoid eye-
contact with the sordid aspects of life. The
idea that workers would be all the better if
every prospect from the St. Kilda-road were
made pleasing was an idea that had not come
within the philosophy of these bawlers,
and Richmond Council is, perhaps, suffering
from the delusion that, because fellmongering
is a malodorous trade which honest workers
are engaged in, the whole of the neighboring
Yarra district should not be too proud and
haughty to put up with the stink. The same
sort of false levelling spirit would have a
corporation-tip in the middle of Collins-
street; that, in short, a good democratic cor-
poration tipster’s food ought to be every-
body else’s poison.
♦
A Few Things Australia Doesn’t Need.
“Good Australian” from the U.S.A.:—
There are numerous things Australia does not want
which are easily catalogued.
Big populations do not lead to more happiness and
comfort for the majority of the people. The dense
populations of the U.S.A., China, India and Japan
do not make those countries happy. We do not
want a turbulent flood of immigrants after the war,
mostly ignorant, all of them inferior to ourselves, no
matter whence they emerge. Our country is doing
very nicely, and there is no need for it to grow “big”
hastily. Let us go along slowly, increasing our num-
bers and our wealth by natural evolution. The
corollary of the White Australia policy is to improve
the lot and take more care of the white Australians
already here and those who come here every night.
Enormous trade figures are no use to most of
us; enormous wealth is no good to any of us.
Why should we strive for them? Let the United
States strain themselves to achieve columns of bil-
lions in people and in dollars. Why should we try
to imitate them ? Are we not doing very well, all
of us all round, in money, in health and in ethics?
Parasites should not be allowed to increase; rather
ought they be encouraged to decrease. Therefore
we do not want any more politicians or Parliaments,
and we do not want any more representatives. Six of
our Parliaments and 600 of our politicians are a
wasteful and ridiculous excess, a useless set. of
encumbrances entailing too many laws, too many
loans, too much waste of money and men. We
would enjoy just as much liberty under one Parlia-
ment as we do under seven, and an Imperial Parlia-
ment, from Australia’s viewpoint, would be a delu-
sion and a snare.
Big statistics not denoting more comfort or
freedom, we ought to set our faces strongly against
dumping. Our tariff question should not be treated
as a partisan or as a political one. High Protection
we require urgently, allied with the strictest penal
laws against dumping. Tariff rates on luxuries
should be modelled on the ancient sumptuary laws,
and made so stiff that those who bought diamonds
and furs would pay enough in duties for the upkeep
of an efficient fleet of submarines; while those on
silks, laces and millinery would maintain a complete
aerial service. Our first and last care should be to
protect our own wage-earners and producers against
those of every other country whether it paid high or
low wages, whether it was an ally or a neutral.
Platitudes, are they ? Can the truth be told too
often? This country does not need a world status
or a plaoe in the sun. It does want to sit tight on
the rights and privileges of its own people; and if
somebody is not vigilant in the near future, Aus-
tralia is going to be made a dumping-ground, a
scrapheap, a spoil-tip for the products and the people
of foreign countries not so good as this to whom we
are under no obligation.
Of the smaller things, we do not want slums, or
millionaires or imported professors and experts to
establish the egg-sucking industry. There is no call
here for town-planners or wowsers, or more noise or
additional hustle. None of these things add to indi-
vidual comfort. Let us contrive to remain behind
tfee times in many things, for they don’t all spell
happiness to you and to me. Skyscrapers, luxurious
betels, express lifts, faster trains, high-speed electric
trams, quicker telephones—none of these “modern
necessities” are really essential to peace and com-
fort. All these and many other like contrivances we
can have here if we choose to pay for them, but why
should we? We ought to try to make Australia a
place where honest business gains fair profits, and
decent people live in peace and comfort.
All this looks heterodox and narrow. Well, let it
so seem. It would not if we knew how well off we
are. We enjoy quite a lot of things other nations
do not possess. The lowest death-rate, the lowest
crime statistics, the lowest disease figures, together
with the best food, the best of every kind of climate,
and the most freedom. What more do we want?
Isolation by distance is our strongest coast defence,
with universal training as our safest domestic
defence. Why.should we jeopardise our safety, im-
peril our liberty and our prosperity by crying out to
people who are not our equals, “Come here and we
will share with you all we hold dear” ?
A Swindle that Needs Suppressing.
Any inquiring person who, marvelling at the
new outgrowths of superstition to be seen
on every hand, tries to discover the secret
of the success of Spiritualism and other
profitable mysteries, can get a strong hint
from the appearance of those who attend the
stances and manifestations. The bulk of
the people present are garbed in black. It
is when bereavement is fresh in the mind
that the great uncertainty with regard to
the things beyond the control of the under-,
taker is really felt; and those of a certain
mental twist will swallow any extravagances
of the professor of the occult, and pay for
them if only they can be persuaded that they
are getting messages from the dead. The
present war has given splendid facilities for
all sorts of charlatans, and the cheapest kind
of fortune-tellers get a hearing in the hope
that they might know something about the
men at the Front. The whole thing is par-
ticularly cruel; and the special measures
being taken by the N. S. Wales police _ to
get at the offenders ought to get a helping
hand from decent people. The harm done is
in some cases very serious; and as w word
from the charlatan may rob a credulous girl
of most of the joy of life and fill her with
despair, it is time to transfer some of the
trouble to the swindler who plays with souls
at ss. a time.
Let Us Pray.
“Fax’*: As a constitutional unbeliever, with
a sympathetic feeling towards the theory of
Christian Faith and a sincere regard for
simple piety in other people, I hope I may
be allowed to argue that the Churches are
bound to do more harm than good by the
ancient practice of inviting public prayers
for the recovery of sick individuals. To me
it seems even more impolitic than_ the osten-
tatious offering of prayers for rain or sun-
shine, seeing that the rain or sunshine _ is
certain to arrive‘presently, whereas the sick
person’s decease is bound to occur sooner or
later, pray we never so earnestly. When I was
young I used to attend Anglican Church ser-
vices where the parson sometimes desired the
prayers of the congregation for a parishioner
who was said to be “seriously ill.” I can’t
remember the time when I didn’t think the
parson made a grave mistake in asking the
true believers among the congregation (if
there were any such) to take the risk of
praying for the recovery of anybody from a
serious illness. The first thing an intelligent
kiddie learns from frequent attendance at
church is the inefficacy of prayer where
sick persons of importance are concerned.
Or, at least, it was so in my time. Some
member of the large and overfed Royal
Family was always passing from the sick
list to the grave despite the parson’s appeals
for preventive spiritual measures. The
prayers of the righteous did not avail.
Sometimes it would be Mrs. Smith, the
well-beloved mother of a large family, who
was prayed for, and then my infant curiosity
was aroused as to whether the poor lady
would get better, and I found that her re-
covery was the rare exception rather than
the Christian rule. Moreover, I was not too
young to reason that if heartfelt prayer
could rescind the law of Nature in particular
cases (and if in some cases, why not in all?)
an admirable mother would never die. Thus
I soon became confirmed in my natural Un-
belief. Therefore was I sorry to read in a
Melbourne journal .that Dr. Mannix was
requesting private prayers, especially the
prayers of children, for Archbishop Carr in
the illness which proved fatal. The ineffi-
cacy of prayer as regards the saving of
human life is the lesson of every war. At
the present time, when Christian Faith
is suffering from a storm of cruel
blows, the world’s stock of piety seems
pretty sure to be impoverished, in a
Johnsonian way of speaking, by the risky
appeal for prayers of children for the con-,
tinued preservation of a very old and very
sick prelate. Archbishop Carr died, as he
was most likely to do. Owing to his death
having been slow, instead of sudden (in
which case there would have been no special
prayers offered), it pointed the very moral
that all good churchmen are combating all
their lives.
+
From Thomas McMahon, a journalist who
has been studying the land which is ruled
by a horse doctor:—
There is a complaint, not only in the Territory,
but out of it, that some few big financial cos. have
had distributed among them a vast area of its best
country. This is hardly true, inasmuch that,
though some of these concerns have very large
quantities of land, it will be found in every instance
that it is a mixture of good, bad, fair and indif-
ferent. It is further complained that absurdly
easy terms, with long leases, are ensuring for specu-
lators prospects of enormous profits. As a matter
of fact, 42 years’ lease is the longest in the Terri-
tory, and, judging by the rate of progress, condi-
tions both natural and political will have to
change very much if at the end of their leases these
cos. get out in a solvent state. Some might be like
the Englishman who bought his parcel from the
South Australian Government some few years back
thinking he had an easy bargain. He is now rush-
ing this property into the market at 2s. 6d. per
acre, after giving 10s. an acre and patting in some
development work. Judging by the way unionism
blocks the advance of the small-capital man, it
seems only possible for big financial people to
undertake the risk. Vestts. for instance, have up
to date risked over a million of money in the
Northern Territory. Their meat works, not yet
completed, was tendered for at about £lOO,OOO, and
so far they have had to put up nearly £600,000
and not one beast has been slaughtered. The follow-
ing are some of the items of the parcelling out of
the Territory: The Bovril Estates comprise 11,380
square miles; lease expires 1943 ; rental per annum,
£ll3B. Vestys, 7843 square miles; leases expiring
1942 and 1944 ; rental, £7S4. J. Bradshaw com-
mands 6800 square miles; lease expires, 1944 ; rental,
£6BO. The total ground rental of these holdings
is £2602 per annum, the area of country, being
equal to the size of England. The lease rents are
based as follows: The first seven years, 6d. per square
mile per annum; second seven years, Is. per square
mile per annum; third seven years, 2s. per square
mile per annum ; and the balance of the term, 2s. 6d.
per square mile per annum. Altogether there are
about 17 lessees who hold 81,729 square miles. The
Territory, by the way, comprises 336,116,800 acres.
The pastoral industry is going to be one of its
paying features some day. At least it might, for
the question is, will big companies get a chance to
develop the country?
From a man who knows:—
Some five years ago the N. S. Wales Department of
Agriculture started a number of demonstration farms
to show the cocky the “commercial results of scien-
tific principles.” But so far the Department’s appli-
cation of scientific principles has brought about
nothing to the State but the loss of a lot of hard
cash. A belated report for the year ending June,
1916, which has just drifted along, shows that it is
up to someone to stop the waste. Last year the
22 farms of various sorts cost £121,000 to maintain,
whilst another £87,415 of good capital was expended
on them. From the whole, revenue totalling £ 52,712
was received; so apart from capital expenditure there
was a loss of over £68,000. Except the little experi-
mental farm at Pera Bore, all the others lost money
—most of them large sums. The Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College and a few othei's are doing good
experimental and educational work and shouldn’t be
expected to show a profit. But most of the older
experimental farms have got right away from the
experimental side-—as a result of a foolish official
policy—and have become mere illustrations of how-
to lose money at farming. Worst of all are sundry
farms that were launched for the one purpose of
proving that scientific farming pays. Temora farm
is a striking example of failure. In five years its
revenue has totalled £lB4B ; has cost the country
over £13,000, and has proved of practically no use.
It was started in a district where private farmers
had proved that wheat-growing paid well, and the
sooner the Department gets out of the business there
the better for its reputation. Other demonstration
farms have been almost as futile, and should also be
closed down. Newer ventures, such as the North Ban-
garoo horse farm, Trangie experiment farm, aud Emu
Plains irrigation farm, which in prison reform is a
useful social experiment, deserve a chance to show
what they can do, providing expenditure is care-
fully watched. At present the expenditure on all the
farms is very high, and suggests extravagance. A visit
to any of these Government concerns and a comparison
with the running of a successful private farm show
in five minutes where the money is wasted. Success-
ful investigation into farming, diseases of stock,
fruit, plants and so on is of immense value, and the
Department should test out every new principle and
pass the result on to the man on the land. But that
work can be done for a proportion of the money
now wasted.
“Sky Pilot” writes:—
Re the article, “Running with the Microbe and
Hunting with the Doctor” (B. 12/4/’l7). From
the bishop’s point of view—and from that of any
decent man—sexual vice is vile and must not he
made “safe,” but be abolished. It isn’t venereal
disease that they fight, it’s sin—the root, not the
leaves.
To which The Bulletin adds that
the fight of the bishops against sexual sin
is certainly a stirring spectacle; but
it isn’t particularly dangerous—to the sin.
If the bishops and “Sky Pilot” had some
decent and practicable moral remedy to
suggest which would be more' effective than
plain medical treatment, coupled with the
compulsory notification of the disease, their
talk about getting to the root and leaving
the leaves alone might be all right; but
even moral treatment would hardly suggest,
as the bishops do, the leaving of the sinful
to spread their contagion as they will. Con-
sidering that this disease may be conveyed
to perfectly innocent people by a towel, a
tea-cup, or even the communion vessels used
in the services of the churches, the attempt
to separate the sheep from the goats by
shepherds who feebly wave a little crook in
a, pastoral letter doesn’t seem to indicate
much vision or earnestness of purpose. It
may be, in the kindly Christian phrase,
a “muddle-headed” view that while people
in increasing numbers are suffering and
dying from the scourge, and little children
being born into Hell because of it,
that drastic practical measures should
be taken without discrimination to save both
the sinner and the victim ; but the bishops
have been a long time fighting sexual sin and,
on all appearances, the thing has got them
pretty well submarined, blockaded and
bombed out of their trenches. Their
alleged remedy has been tried ever since
venereal disease was introduced, and it is
about time we had a change, even if it hurts
their feelings.
“Gagneb la Guerre” : I can bear out what
“D.D.” (B. 26/4/T7) says about the
blankets at the Defence Department, and
can go a bit further. When the war started
the administrators doubted if there would
be enough blankets in the Common-
wealth to cover all the Billjimis. Pearce
or someone suffering from a brainwave
ordered a wholesale commandeering of tra-
velling-rugs, to take the place of the blankets;
they varied in price from Bs. 9d. to 15s. It’s
no use stating the quantity placed to stock;
it may discourage recruiting, or be of value
fo Germany. Anyhow, they ran into four
figures. Billjim never received one of these
rugs. I guarantee that there are enough
blankets now to build a marquee over the
Melb. Town Hall marked obsolete. Tenders
w r ere called for the purchase of same, and
the highest received was 3s. 9d. Maybe
there’s an explanation. I await it.
From a man who has been considering
costs most of his life:—
When is the Defence Department going to cease
wasting and muddling? At the camp where I’m
training I see hundreds of pounds wasted weekly,
and all of it might easily be saved. Just now there
are not 2000 men assembled, yet the fuel alone costs


[For any unsigned Plain English and other para-
graphs which require a signature under the Electoral
Act, S. H. Pkior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
Oeorse Street. Svdnev, accept the resnonsibilit v. 1
JULY 1
is an important date for the N. S. Wales Employer to keep in mind. On that day the
Workmen’s Compensation Act comes into operation, and the employer is liable to
pay compensation to any employee injured in his service.
Every Farmer should make arrangements to fully insure his employees without delay .
Insuring with a reputable company is the only way to cover the risks.
T l !'Farmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
is the Farmers’ insurance company. It is a co-operative company owned by farmers, who by placing their business with their own company are able to obtain
their insurance at cost price. Every policy-holder who becomes a shareholder in this company not only secures his insurance at the lowest rates but also
participates in the profits his and other co-operators’ business has earned. Now in its second year, the company is already a prosperous insurance oflice—it paid
a 6 per cent, dividend on its first year’s operations—and the future is decidedly promising.
Write the Manager full particulars of your employees, and the lowest possible rates will be quoted.
Every farmer should be a shareholder in this company; the benefits to be obtained by co-operating for insurance are too great to lose.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. BRANCHES IN VICTORIA AND SODTH AUSTRALIA.
£lO a day, and there are seven commissariat wag-
gons and 14 horses. The cooks are neither expert
nor willing <unless tipped), and no batcher is
employed to cut up meat and strip bones. Again
and again I have seen a whole bullock’s skeleton
thrown away with pounds of good meat hanging to
it. Half-loaves of bread and half-tins of jam are
treated as refuse. These are only a few items.
Others quite as competent to judge and I have
talked and calculated, and our conclusion is that a
good business man (say an ex-caterer or hotelkeeper)
would save this concern quite £75 a day. To put
the thing on a basis above suspicion these experi-
enced men should be given the rank of lieutenant,
just as in the case of doctors and other experts.
And what’s wrong with a military school for cooks?
A War of Booze and Bash.
There was a cheerful item of news from the
Russian Front the other clay: “When the
artillery prepared to fire, the Germans
advanced, bearing white flags and vodka.”
And there the message stopped after the
manner of a serial story leaving the critical
situation suspended in an atmosphere of
doubt. What happened to the shells and the
Germans and the booze is all wrapped in a
great mystery. Did the frozen Ivan carry
a resolution of protest against the Czar’s
anti-grog ukase, and dropping his munitions
rush out to meet the national liquid? Or
did he drop a shell into the advancing Hun
and vodka and blow the outfit off the scenery ?
This paper regretfully suspects that Ivan
broke the pledge he never took and rushed
to where the German wanted him. All of
which raises the question of whether the
dryness of the Russian army has turned
out entirely satisfactory or whether it has
not given the enemy another chance to
introduce fresh tricks into the game. Any-
how, so long as there is clamorous disorder
behind the Front, the danger of the German
arriving to clean up the mess with a bayonet
ir. one hand and a dram in the other seems
well within the region of probability. This
would introduce a new note into the history
of European warfare—the defeat of a first-
class power being caused by its hankering
after democratic institutions and refresh-
ments. In the interval of waiting to hear about
what happens to the Bear it is noticeable
that on the other side of the scrum there is
no mention of the Allies advancing towards
Von Hindenberg with sausages and but-
tered toast. The yarns from that quarter are
about bombs and gas and earth-shaking
artillery fire, and long, desperate struggles
with bare hands and naked blades: of posi-
tions won and lost; of armies locked in a
murderous struggle. Every day this pande-
monium lasts makes it clearer that when the
breaking point comes the smash will sound
as if the world had torn itself up by the
roots. Meanwhile, our own Billjim is hold-
ing his end up with a strong, brawny hand,
and has done again at BuUeeourt what he
did at Pozieres. Exactly what is meant by
him and the kilted Sandv being “astride of
the Hindenberg line” will be understandable
later on. Meanwhile he is in a hot corner,
and will have to argue quite a lot about
staying there.
Archbishop Thomas Carr, who died in
Melbourne last week, was born in Gal-
way County, Ireland, in 1839. He studied
at Rome, at St. Jarlatt’s, Tuam, Co.
Galway, and at Maynooth; was ordained in
1865 and had six years of parish work. He
was curate in Westport (Archbishop John
McHale’s parish), subsequently professor
and vice-president at Maynooth. Conse-
crated Bishop of Galway in 1883, and
appointed Archbishop of Melbourne in 1886,
succeeding Dr. Gooid.
Dr. Dani.el Mannix, who succeeds Dr.
Carr as Archbishop of Melbourne, was born
at Charieville, Co. Cork, on March 4. 1864.
He was educated at St. Colman’s, Fermoy,
and at St. Patrick’s, Maynooth, where he
became in turn professor, vice-president and
president. He was a senator of the Royal
University of Ireland, and served on the
governing body of University College, Dublin.
He was a leader of education in Ireland, and
modernised St. Patrick’s College, Maynooth,
alike on its spiritual, educational and domes-
tic sides. His Reverence is also considered
one of the most brilliant theological scholars
in the Church of Rome.
“Fax”: Safe to predict that the heart of
Melbourne city will never again be enclosed
within a funeral march for two hours and
more on a Saturday afternoon, as it was
when all the cable-tramway services were
suspended on account of Archbishop Carr’s
last outing. Between 3 p.m., or earlier, and
5.15 p.m. a space half a mile long, by 220
yards wide, was a trap for the unwary. Take
the case of, say, a man who had dropped into
Cole’s Book Arcade to buy a book for his
sick mother-in-law, before going to see the
boat-race on the Yarra an hour later. He
was trapped as soon as the police closed
Coilins-street to cross-traffic. An intermin-
able procession of slow-going funereal citi-
zens was following the tramlines by which
the Book Arcade is enclosed on the north,
south and west. The impenetrable proces-
sion was in charge of Bourke-street, Eliza-
beth-street, and Coilins-street at one and the
same time. The bit of Swanston-street to
the east of the Arcade, and of every
thoroughfare up to Spring-street, was blocked
at both ends by the marchers. The interned
citizen could walk up to the east end of
Bourke or Collins streets, bu.t the half-mile
journey was useless. The liberty of the sub-
ject was at a dead-end for more than two
hours.
The second Victoria Cross won by an Aus-
tralian in Africa during the present war is
notified. The first went to Lieut. W. Dart-
nell, who died to save his men. The bit of
bronze goes this time to John Mayman, whose
name is on the honor roll of the little school
at Timor, near Maryborough (Vic.), where
l)e was born, as was Major Percy Black, who
the other day carried his many honors to a
soldier’s grave. Mayman was a Westralian
miner before he enlisted. He has been serv-
ing with Botha in East Africa, and though
he does not say how he won the Cross, his
previous record shows that he was a suitable
candidate. While working on the Hidden
Secret mine, Vic., he rescued a Dago, who,
after trying to hang himself with the
knocker-line, cut it and fell into the water
at the bottom of the shaft. In 1902 Mayman
saved a mate who was buried in running
sand at the Berry No. 1 mine, Vic. The
soldier is 47 years of age and is a brother
of George Mayman, of Kalgoorlie.
“Verdad” writes: —
Further reports from Argentine about Chile, this
time that Chile has a secret treaty with Germany,
support my contention (B. 3/5/’l7) that they are
due to Hun intrigue. The rumors are riot mentioned
by the most important dailies of Buenos Aires, and
are flatly contradicted by Chile. Germany has apolo-
gised to Argentine for sinking one of the latter
country’s ships and has promised reparation. All
this shows that Germany is really concerned about
keeping Argentine, if not friendly to Germany, at
least neutral; and one of the best ways is. by insinu-
ating that Argentine runs the risk of an attack from
Chile if she becomes pro-Ally. What caused a lot
of the friction in past times between Chile and
Argentine was the boundary question. Before the
frontier was delimited by the Commission some
years ago, this line was defined ris being the Andean
watershed—to the west was Chile, to the east was
Argentine. But the watershed was difficult to define
towards the south, where the Andes spread out and
are much lower than in the north. There are lakes
and swamps practically on the top of the ranges,
and the digging of a ditch a few feet deep would
often change the watershed a mile or two, by causing
the water to flow in the opposite direction. During
the disputes, patriotic Chileans and Argentines used
to alter the watershed with a spade at nights to
include more territory in their respective countries.
When this question was finally settled, and peace
reigned, the two countries erected the big statue of
Christ on the boundary-line on top of the Andes,
on the road between Buenos Aires and Santiago, as
an emblem of the peace that was henceforth to reign
between them.
“Norman Sinclair”: I belong to the Win-
the-War party now. In September, 1916, I
was rejected on an attempt to enlist at
Victoria Barracks, Sydney. Tossed out same
month at Brisbane; ditto a few weeks later
at Mount Morgan. So I humped Matilda
from Rockhampton to Hughenden; railed
from there to Cloncurry; took the road again
to Mt. Oxide, and then tramped back to the
Dobbin Show. Now I’m on a job with an
83 wet bulb and working six-hour shifts.
Hot as Sheol and as dusty as the Liverpool-
road. Also, there is carbonic-acid gas, and
that pulls the wind ont of a man quick. But
I can still eat a pound of tough steak for
breakfast and swallow a dollar’s worth of
arsenical beer a day. I’m thinking of going
to a physical-culture school where I might
learn to get fit and well.
“X.M.”: The fact that our present cometic
visitor was seen by casual naked-eye obser-
vers before the Australian astronomers,
with a £70,000 outfit, discovered its presence,
reminds me of the Gin. telescope in the
Federal territory. It is perched on a hill,
with a waggon-load of box-kites and other
meteorological apparatus, of no use since
installed, except to provide a job for a care-
taker. If it was not partly dismantled he
might be allowed to have a squint through
it occasionally, to see if he can spot the good
times alleged to be coming.
“Cleveland”: In peace, time I have a
special marine job, so when I decided to go
and give England a hand I guessed I could
be most useful as a submarine-hunter. I
put it to the nearest naval chiefs, and they
assured me that I was just the sort of man
that was needed urgently on the other side.
But there it ended. I was told that the only
way I could get to England was to enlist as
an infantryman. I am now learning foot-
drill as patiently as I can, and reading the
torpedo statistics.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING' WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built”
Palace “Turn to the Right”
Tivoli . Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle I’lays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WRICK.
Her Majesty’s “High Jinks”
Royal , “London Pride”
Princess’s “The Bunyip”
King’s “Very Cood Eddie’
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt's De Luxf. k Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Last Saturday’s revival of “So Long
Letty” at Melb. Majesty’s was for six
nights only, and although a boyish, boat-racy
audience cheered the performance on its way
some of the old-time gaietjf seemed lacking.
Perhaps it was that too many soldiers have
marched out of camp to the tune of Letty,
and will never hear it more. Or Dorothy’s
vivacity was a trifle less hearty, and Work-
man’s fooling more distinctly labored than
before. Anyway, things were not quite so
brisk on the matrimonial exchange. The
interview between Marie Eaton and Frith, in
his bathing-suit, was brighter; also William
Greene, as the casual young man, was an
improvement on his predecessor, notwith-
standing the fact that Greene’s nose has no
business in a frivolous character. It is one
of the accepted features of stage villainy;
nature intended it to be associated with dark
deeds in bellowdrama. A new lady shaped
promisingly as Tommy’s aunt (who must be
a half-witted relative), and the 80 prancing-
girls were a joy. Their pink-and-gold cos-
tumes have lost their early freshness, but the
interlacing of their arms is beautiful, and the
unanimity with which they, shake their legs
at the prevailing depression nearly persuades
the writer that all the world’s a picnic, and
all the men and women merely out for a
spree. “High Jinks” goes up next Saturday
for six nights, and then “The Three Twins”
will get a look in.
si: * ;!<
The humor and satire of “Penelope” have
put in their allotted nine nights at Mel-
bourne Royal, and the place where Marie
Tempest learned to remember that even the
barndoor hen gives her lord and master a run
is now closed for two nights. On Satur-
day a new melodrama comes along at
the Royal. “London Pride” brings from
its darkened birthplace a good reputation.
Barry Lupino, lately resting in hospital, is
back again as Very Good Eddie at Melbourne
King’s, and every night he rushes madly
downstairs to dazzle the hotel clerk with his
skill in projecting cigarette-smoke from his
little nose. In other respects the show is as
it was before Lupino happened to nearly kill
himself.
“VERY GOOD EDDIE” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
John Beck has a pain
in the Rip Van
Winkle Inn.
Fayette Perry as
Elsie Darling.
At the Melbourne Princess’s the nights of
“The Bnnyip” panto, are numbered —end of
next week and no further. There are only
three more matindes whereat children can
criticise the performance for a shilling from
any part of the house save the ampitheatre,
where the fee for inspection is sixpence.
This fourth week of Ada Reeve’s season at
Melb. Tivoli has the same bill as last week,
except that the tabloid tragedy is missing,
and a new turn —Raymond Wilmot Wilbert
on the Golf Links —is helping to fill the gap.
The versatile histrionic Ada has not much
more time to stay.
Next Tuesday (22nd) afternoon there will
be a large and various show at the Royal in
aid of the widow of Tom Dawson, a com-
edian who made his mark on the Australian
vaudeville stage in dismal, pessimistic char-
acter songs. One of his specialties was “a
hard-boiled egg.” Tom was a good Aus-
tralian as well as an amusing comic song-
ster, and he died fighting for his country at
the Battle of Pozieres. The benefit for his
widow will be Melbourne’s special oppor-
tunity to acknowledge the services of its
departed friend.
Those wonderful Picture-girls’ Eyes,
whereof Ada Reeve sings, are in full glare at
the Melba and the Britannia (Melb.) this
week. The Britannia is featuring Dorothy
Dalton in the same lady-vampire character
that she adorned on the Majestic screen last
week. The title of “The Female of the
Species” does only half justice to her awful-
ness. At the Melba all who have tears to
shed must prepare to shed them on behalf of
Theda Bara in “Her Double Life.” The play
is just another perversion of “The New Mag-
dalen” story of old days. Theda penitently
tries to lose herself under a new name, but
the villain still pursues her. A look of terror
in the eyes is Miss Bara’s specialty, and a
blood-curdling sneer is the trump-card of
Stuart Holmes, who plays the persistent
villain.
★ * *
At Hoyts’ Melbourne theatres this week
an Amurkan mining picture-drama is leading
item. Ethel Barrymore plays heroine in
“The White Raven,” and her influence over
the wild, unwashed “boys” is worthy of
Tittell Brune at her best. The play is in
five acts and 75 emotions. The dissolute
characters who gaze longingly at Ethel in
the course of her adventures are a numerous
and motley crowd, and her behavior under
the circumstances is a lesson to mere bits o’
fluff. The question as to whether souls are
by nature transmigratory is treated in “The
Soul’s Cycle,” which is a fanciful film for
far-thinking philosophers.
Adelaide is getting the afternoon-show habit
strongly. The Majestic seems to have good
houses every day for its variety show, in
which, just now are the Belldays, and Rose
and Bell, fine athletes. The male partner is a
moving humorist also. Wondergraph Pictures,
after experimenting with continuous —to
which the Grand and. Pav. still stick—is now
trying its evening bill twice in the after-
noon. The Royal, when not occupied by
drama, shows pictures twice a day, but
West’s sticks to evenings only—bar Satur-
days. The only drama in town just now is
at the Tivoli, where the “King of Crime”
has been chiefly an opportunity for George
Cross, and Blanche McPherson (as the blind
wife).
There remain only two more nights of
Kathlene MacDonell’s remarkable presenta-
tion of the modern practitioner of the oldest
profession; and those who haven’t yet seen
this brilliant actress in the delightful Eng-
lish comedy, “Outcast,” run a big chance of
missing a worth-while show. Marie Tempest
is due at Sydney Criterion on Saturday;
meantime Kathlene MacDonell (and Charles
Waldron) are still with us.
* * * *
Orchardists who gratefully receive a credit
balance for 2d. or thereabouts from Sussex-
street on their consignments of peaches are
advised to study the methods at Sydney
Palace in “Turn to the Right,” where three
gaolbirds build fortunes out of one peach
orchard. The lamp at the window to gu'de
the prodigal son home will evidently be lit for
many an evening yet.
* * * *
“The Story of the Rosary,” at the Sydney
Opera House, is still to be continued in our
next.
Sydney is now enjoying the sixth week of
“The House that Jack Built,” at Her
Majesty’s.
Willard and Wilson, soot-faced comedians,
are trying “The Crime Hunters” on
Sydney Tivoli audiences with favorable re-
sults. Alf Grant, a dialect and story im-
portation from the United States of vaude-
ville, and one Archie Onri represent the
other reinforcements for the week. Clement
Dickens May is doing O. Henry’s short
stories for a change with success, while
basso. McEachern and Gwen Lewis attend to
the. singing. Leeds and Lemar, the two acro-
batic May os, Reed and Wright and the Taki-
ness Duo are also working in the mill of
entertainment. Nellie Stewart will begin a
season on Saturday with the first act of
“Sweet Nell,” and Talleur Andrews will
endeavor to make life look brighter.
The reception given to their locally-pro-
duced pictures at Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday evening should be very encouraging
to the Waddington management. The
orchestra, under the Slapoffski’s baton, was


gdf
H E N K E S’
SCHNAPPS
Holland's best production—an absolutely ideal tonlo>
Awarded many geld medals for purity.
g
RETURNED
SOLDIERS tell us
constantly of the great satisfaction
they derived from wearing one of our
celebrated Fx. & R. Watches.
A letter just to hand says: “It gives
me great pleasure to say how ser-
viceable the watch I bought from
you proved. I had it with me
throughout our training here and in
Egypt and what time I was at Gal-
lipoli, and it never once failed me.
It was a wonderful timekeeper.”
This letter is only one of many that speak in the
highest terms of the watches supplied by us for the
use of the brave men going to the Front.
(2D
©
S 3
GS
S>
Luminous Dial
Fx. & R. fully
jewelled Lever
r Watch, in regulation
Pigskin Wristlet, 70/“
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 &25 HUNTER STREET.
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrall,
of °t 1 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
fdg
that his horse-back work calls for a special boot—one that is
not heavy, yet strong-; one with close welts to suit the
stirrups, and good strong elastic in the sides. The Peapes
Rider’s Boot pulls on easily. It is made in the whole —no
seams to tear apart or hurt the feet. Good leather used
throughout, and fine, neat finish typical of the Peapes
character in Footwear for men.
Tan or Black Calf 30/-
We pay postage. Please state size and fitting.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George St., Sydney
df
SOI-
exceptionally good; and Madame Alverna’s
songs and Jan Laerte’s violin solos were
greeted with enthusiasm by the large audi-
ence.
*# # *
The Wirths will take to the road with the
big tent again after the performance on
ARTHUR FROST, conductor.
Saturday night at the New Hippodrome
(Sydney). The last youngster had better
hurry along with the last shilling before the
luggage labels are pasted on the elephants.
“J.R.”: The Swedish Government has
embarrassed itself by food riots, by con-
tracting to sell the German Government
many millions of pounds of reindeer venison,
for which the Lapps, who are to supply the
carcases of their tame deer, are to get some-
thing like 7d. per pound live weight. These
deer have been allowed to feed in the forests
of Lapland, and it is renorted that when
the present stock is disposed of under con-
tract with Germany, the Lapps will not be
allowed to restock, and in that way hungry
Sweden will, when next winter comes round,
find itself with not only its regular European
population short of food, but a semi-civilised
aboriginal Arctic population howling at its
cold back door and trying to buy food that
doesn’t exist with frozen sevenpences.
“Hamer”: Fate pointed out a derisive
finger at the Germans one recent day when
the latest thing in submarine frightfulness
had an interview with a steamer
which was ferrying some British troops
across the Channel. This vessel is so
ancient that it shoves itself through the
water by means of paddle-wheels. But when
the torpedo discharged by the submarine
missed its mark, the ancient shot out all
the speed the engines could raise and
charged; and it was the projecting paddle
that caught the latest thing in Hun crafti-
ness and sent it to the bottom.
“Caroline”: Here’s another little item for
Webster’s list of postal complaints. When
the Anzacs were transferred from Gallipoli
to France my brother was in hospital in
Egypt. While he was there he didn’t re-
ceive any letters, although we at home were
writing regularly. Later, when he returned
to duty, and joined his battalion in France,
he received no less than 87 letters on one
day and 9% on the next! Still-, he did get
them, which is more than some of the others
did!
“Poll Clerk”: The result of the Senate
voting showed the considerable amount of
difficulty the electors had in grappling with
the task of voting. D. Watson easily ied the
Labor bunch in N. S. Wales because a
goodly number of electors thought they were
voting for J. C. Watson. In my booth the
number who plumped for the top three on
the card was surprising. One old chap came
in to mai’k his card, but clean forgot who
he was to leave in. So he asked per-
mission to retire, and soon returned chant-
ing, “Bowlingraeandwatson, Bowlingraeand-
watson. Bowlingraeandwatson,” the whole
time he was waiting to be attended to.
Nothing is too good for our returned
soldiers, of course. This is probably why, in
some; cases, the officials at booths on the
sth inst. were torn away from their State-
paid jobs (their screws running quietly along
in the meantime) and thrust into polling-
billets at one or two guineas for the day,
while the returned soldier went on drawing
his small pension and hunting for a job. Of
course, handing out ballot-papers needs skill
of a superior kind, and old friends must not
be forgotten; but the hard-up so’dier
deserves more consideration when there’s a
spare pound or two going—especially as he
is repeatedly told by political claquers that
he is Australia’s saviour.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The story of how the long late Martin
Simonsen came to leave Germany would be
worth retelling these times, even though it
had been told of yore. Simonsen, a Dane
by birth, was violinist to the Court of Ham-
let in his young days, hence his ambition to
settle down as a musical professor in Ger-
many. He went to Hamburg to make his
home, and it was from there that he went to
America on a starring tour. For advt. pur-
poses, or because he loved dawgs, Simonsen
kept a beautiful St. Bernard whilst he was
living in Hamburg. In a quite unaccount-
able manner the noble brute got off the chain
and was found roaming at large by the dis-
trict police officer. Simonsen was summoned
before the local magistrate and lined. The
same thing happened again and again, till
at last; the much-lined musician began to
keep his big dawg under constant observa-
tion. Finally, he saw the animal being let
loose by the very man who used to serve him
with the summons. When the irate fiddler
was called to court this time he explained
the mystery of his dog’s previous wanderings
in the light of the recent revelation, but his
evidence didn’t go for a row of pins. The
informant swore that he discovered the St.
Bernard on the loose, and was innocent ot
having ever in his life unfastened the
animal’s collar. The magistrate held that
no good German could doubt the word of a
man in authority, and the raging Martin
Simonsen was fined again. Thereupon his
nibs sold up his home and shook the dust of
Germany from his boots. His trouble in
later life was that his name always caused
him to be classed among the purely German
Jews.
“L.H.P.”: When Allan Wilkie played
“The Bells” recently in Melbourne, he staged
on the same evening a curtain-raiser called
“Delicate Ground,” which was regarded as
a curiosity. Originally done at Dondon
Lyceum in November, ’49, by Charles Mat-
thews, R. Roxley; and the great Vestns, the
piece was very popular. It was from the
pen of Charles Dance, the scene laid in Pans
during the revolution of ’93, and Pauline, the
heroine, was one of the finest emotional pai ts
to be found in the range of one-acters.
“Hal August”: Some Sydney suburban
picture-gazers sat up in their seats and
stared the other evening when a three-rceler
was fairly on its way. The leading juvenile
in the film was a German character inter-
preted by a German actor. The audience
hooted warningly, but the operator kept on
turning until the Hun stood before a framed
portrait of the Kaiser and saluted. At this
stage the audience started to howl and
stamp; the picture was stopped, and an
apologetic manager explained that the reel
had only been received that morning and
hadn’t been inspected by the management.
The explanation satisfied the audience; but
the film censorship and the exchange that
supplied the sausage-roll might be asked a
few questions.
“Private Boxer”: It is difficult to realise
that Lizette Parkes, the juvenile leading
lady of “Turn to the Right,” was not so
very long ago “Baby Parkes,” a song-and-
dance prodigy of the Rickards halls. The
versatile young Australian has certainly
made good in her country and can give a
lead to many highly-priced star importations.
Lizette’s younger sister, Elsie, by the way,
is also commencing her career in vaudeville.
She is one of the singing and dancing extra
ladies who provide the necessary ornamental
background to the Tivoli Follies.
“Masetto”: Melba is always welcomed'
home with a fanfare of paper trumpets. One
blows off that, “in all probability Maggie
Teyte, Zenatello, Muratore, the famous
French tenor, and other artists of world-
wide reputation will shortly be associated
with Melba in opera here.” We heard the
same thing; before the season of 1911 and
got nothing. That time it was Reneau,
Journet and Eduard de Reszke and others
who were to make the trip.
“Harrison O.”: “Half an Hour,” the
Barrie playlet that Ada Reeve is doing at
Melbourne Tivoli, is in no way characteristic
of the author. Its melodramatic story might
have been made more effective by a less-
gifted writer. Yet Barrie, in his own vein,
is a master of the one-act play. “Rosalind”
and “The Twelve-Pound Look” are two per-
fect little things of their kind, and Ada
Reeve or anyone’else who put them on would,
deserve public gratitude. Miss Reeve’s
talents would have fine scope in “Rosalind,”
a charming story of an actress, beautiful in
her warpaint, who escapes to a distant
village from a boy-lover, loafs about in large
slippers and loose clothes, and revels in the
comfortable feeling of being middle-aged.
Failing professional presentation, the Reper-
tory , Theatre might do worse than try a
Barrie one-acter. The fact that in England
Barrie is a wildly-successful commercial
di*amatist need not deter director McMahon.
There are a number of commercially-success-
ful English dramatists whose work is never
likely .to be seen here except in a Repertory
Theatre, a? ..hose whom it hath pleased
Frovidencp to place xn charge of our theatri-
cal affahs have decided that certain of the
plays would not. be understood in these
benighted parts. ,
The encore nuisance, which makes the
ordinary musical show so tiresomely long,
has been quietly suppressed at the
Melbourne municipal concerts under Dr.
Price’s direction. A line on the bill politely
requests the audience nof to demand a
second helping of individual coux-ses, and the
crowd is content to accept one soixg at a time
as a fair thing. After all the “inevitable
encore” system is due to the song-recital
artists who are down for only five numbers
on the programme, but are tacitly under-
stood to be prepared to give double as many.
The bill, in their case, is admittedly open to
extension, and the audience bangs its hands
until the artist sings again. The same rule
applies at musical-comedy first-nights, when
persistent encores are supposed to be signs
of success. Everything worth mentioning is
done twice over, and the performance lasts
half an hour longer than at a matinee, where
it goes on its bare merits and is less tedious.
“Up Stage”: We were playing in Cane-
ville at the time, and having failed to excite
the frivolous, decided to appeal to the pious
by staging “The Christian.” Benson, our
“heavy” man, was gloomily cursing the pre-
carious financial position, and the mana-
gerial edict that “members of the co. will
refrain from sending any laundry out, as the
prospect of making an undignified exit from
the town seems probable,” when he became
interested in two sunburnt drunks babbling
outside the pub. One blinked sleepily at
Glory Quayle on the playbill and said : “Er
bloke mi’ ’swell go t’ther gaff t’night.” His
friend gravely concuri-ed. Benson ap-
proached them bowing. “Thinking of seeing
the show to-night, gentlemen? Allow me to
book your two seats now.” They solemnly
paid out —and we fled on the wifigs of their
money. They were too drunk to appreciate
good acting, anyhow.
Died recently in Melbourne, Fred Hailes,
son of Geoi'ge Button Hailes, old-time Fitz-
royite, who had five sons all over 6ft. in
height. He was close up to the ’7o’s when
he went over. A life-long acquaintance with
music and musicians constituted him an
authority. In the long-gone days of “Penny
Readings” the father and his boys
took part in the old Fitzroy Court-
house, glees, rounds and such being a family
specialty. One of the boys has been for 30
years in the Williamson orchestra. Old G-
B. Hailes came to Melbourne in 1840, and
was one of the executors of the will of John
Pascoe Fawkner.
“Javon”: Several months ago “Jwosp”
pointed out that a sketch in a Sydney show
had been looted from a Maoriland pressman.
The sketch climaxed neatly with the dis-
covery by a jealous man that he had done
the shooting in the wrong flat, aud had a
strange dead couple on his hands. The idea
is older than “Jwosp” thinks. It was given
to John L. Toole in ’79 to make a play out
of, and was even then a century old in Eng-
lish. In the original yarn an Assyi’ian
gentleman had a hand.
“S.S.”: It was contended by Wilson
Forbes, veteran Australian actor, just dead,
that an actor was a very bad actor indeed
who could not do something rather better
than any other actor. He was not averse
to reciting a case in point which gave .him
precedence in one department of art over
actors much more eminent. It all happened
long ago, in days when W.F. had not
had the opportunities that came later of
manifesting his versatility. An entertain-
ment had been organised for some charity
purpose, the chief interest of which lay in
the fact that the most gifted actors were to
play the most trifling parts. Titlieradge
was asked to come in with a tray, deliver a
letter, duck, and back out again. “I can’t
do it.” he said, “I have neither the ability
nor the personal appearance. One man in
Australia has made that sort of thing dis-
tinctly his own. I doubt if the public will
stand for any other man in the part. Give
it to Mr. Wilson Forbes.”
Instead of the outbursts of mummer-
worship that mark ordinary first nights at
Melbourne Majesty’s, all the cheers and hand-
clapoings last Saturday were for college boat-
crews. Parties of boys in colored flannel
coats trooped into the stalls to the plaudits
of their partisans among the gods, and when
the winding team arrived in their light blue
they got a reception that would have satisfied
Melba. These demonstrations in honor of
the boys were a welcome change to first-
night habitues. For once they were spared
the absurdity of the mummer-worship which
usually keeps the gallery girls busy before
the curtain goes up. If any actresses of con-
siderable self-importance came to get a recep-
tion last Saturday they must have been
shocked to find themselves overlooked. For
this occasion only, nobody up aloft was tx-y-
-ing to discover them before they sat down.
(Continued on page 26.)
“Agricola” : English medicoes are drawing
attention to the low resistance of Australian
soldiers to septic invasion. I was in the
same dangerous state, but overcame it by
continued use of glycero-phospliate of lime,
which is the form in which we can best
assimilate phosphorus for the nerve cells.
It is of immense value to Australians.
N. S. Wales’s Win-the-War Govern-
ment has just taken the first step towards
bringing the conflict to an end. It has boi’-
rowed £3,000,000 in London—cost, about 6
per cent. Allegedly this is for “works.”
Actually the money is wanted to repair the
gaping holes in numerous loan and trust
accounts from which the previous Ministry
had been diverting heavy wads. It now re-
mains to be seen whether a Holman Minis-
try in a new suit is any more decent than
before; whether it will merely fill up the old
holes and proceed to make some new ones.
Meanwhile the spectacle of Holman and co.
winning the war by relieving J. Bull of cash
is a solemn circumstance calculated to im-
press the world with a sense of Australia’s
determination to cadge a way to victory.
A gallant, dashing bushman was Kelvin
Roach, 9th Light Horse Regt., who fell at
Gaza after two years’ campaigning. Trooper
Roach didn’t even wait for tlie clarion call
to arms. At the time war was declared he
was on Sid Kidman’s station, 900 miles up
from Adelaide, and learned the news from a
stray newspaper. He hastened south carry-
ing all his 22 years. Comrades declare that
for deeds of valor at Lone Pine alone he
more than once won the V.C.
“Three Stripes”: Looking like an escaped
Hun, Gunner R. W. Betts, of the 102nd
Howitzer Battery, arrived in London covered
with trench mud, unshaven and unwashed
for four days, but he showed he was a
white man by drawing his back pay—£loo—•
and pouring it into the Australian War
Loan. A mild-looking young man with a
Charlie Chaplin moustache, he has been 21
years helping to upset the Kaiser’s plans.
He was offered promotion for having brought
down the first Turkish aeroplane at Gal-
lipoli, but preferred to remain with his
mates. He is a nephew of vice-chairman
iSoyes, of Vic. Recruiting Committee.
Departure of the Transports.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sombre transports in the harbor wait,
Laden with rich, imperishable freight.
*s° Spanish galleon captured as a prize
£J ev ® r su< -h proud merchandise.
® rave . hoP e anc l gallant youth and aident
. la , , , , ,
blood and courage to what poit con-
„ . Slgnecl ; , ~
memories of mothers and the tears
9* kiddies, anc * a thousand women s fears
Are unseen cargo on those leaden boats,
Yet from-them oer. the water ever oat
The of boyisn laughter, cheeis <nd
rm ls L u „
ihe terryboats saluting,
r| ,. I , e c ®*: ,® e .. s ’
The toot, too-toot, too-toot g,
, , mea a . r ® S f l h„ g u all n f
~ e £ stic ,^, in t^ie stl ent 11 0
isullecourt.
The fuss i aunches a n the harbor fill
\\, r ith whistles thin, hysterical and shrill;
Each ferryboat its ceaseless triumph crows:
The grunting ocean liner blows its nose.
These youths, war-virgins, for grim sacrifice
On iuOLOCH’s altar chosen, are the price
That Liberty must for its living pay—
Yet of their faty they make a holiday,
And greet the future with a boyish shout,
And Moloch with a cheer they gaily flout;
Bat tha* young cheering echoes far away !
The ferryboats’ saluting,
Tl le tumult of the cheering,
The toot, too-toot, too-tootmg
Tlieir mates are surely hearing
As they stick it in the strident hell of
Bullecourt!
, , ~, , . . ,
The transports and the warships fade away,
ffia ye the emptiness of eveiy da j’
*, |)o . u the harbor and w’lthin each heart
Such noble merchandise tor such a r . •
Yet they are all-impatient swi t to reach
Their mates that, with no cheering, hold
To rei nforcTthut sullen line so thin
They bring their gaiety, they bring their
g r i n !
For Hindenberg knows now that no redoubt
Can keep the laughter of the Anzacs out;
And those mad Biixjims hear above the din
The ferryboats’ saluting,
The tumult of the cheering,
The toot, too-toot, too-tooting,
They know their mates are nearing,
As they stick it in the strident hell of
Bullecourt!
-y.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS. Adams.


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and L'p-tOrdate Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Lslier, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
Do Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ART!!! l J. USHER,
Managing Director.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Tooth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
FRUIT LAXATIVE FOR MAMMA, DAD,
BABY, CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Better than calomel, oil or pills to
clean and regulate liver,
bowels and stomach.
Mother, daddy and the children can always
keep feeling fine by taking this delicious
fruit laxative as occasion demands. Nothing
else cleanses the stomach, liver and bowels
so thoroughly without griping.
You take a little at night, and in the
morning all the foul, constipated waste, sour
bile and fermenting food delayed in the
bowels gently moves out of the system. When
you awaken all headache, indigestion, sour-
ness, foul taste, bad breath, fever and dizzi-
ness are gone; your stomach is sweet, liver
and bow.els clean, and you feel grand.
California .Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
family laxative. Everyone from grandpa to
baby can safely take it, and no one is ever
disappointed in its pleasant action. Millions
of mothers know that it is the ideal laxative
to give cross, sick, feverish children. Ask
your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”—Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs—which has directions
for babies, children of all ages, and for
grown-ups plainly on the bottle. Remember,
imitations are sometimes substituted, so look
and see that your bottle bears the name' of
California Fig Syrup Company. Hand back
with contempt any other fig syrup. “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—is sold by all
chemists in bottles of two sizes, Is. lid. and
Is. 9d. • ' [7
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
FROM STORKLESS REALMS.
MISTRESS (to applicant for position of
maid): “Do you know anything about
children?"
M AIN: “No, mum. Up to now I have only
been employed by society people.”
John Bull has been solemnly warned by
his Food Controller that the use of starch
must be restricted, and that one result of
this will be to “affect the wearing of starched
garments.” The Juggernaut of Fashion,
thank the Lord, rolls at last over those great-
est of all abominations in the realm of men’s
wear —the stiff-fronted shirt, the cuff and the
steel-ribbed collar. Once the British race
breaks off acquaintance with these outward
and visible signs of disaomfort and respecta-
bility it will no more return to them than to
chain armor. No man: ever lived who felt
comfortable in a concrete shirt, nor who
failed to thank Heaven when he dragged the
badge of servitude from under his whiskers.
All that is now necessary to cause every
mercer in Britain to write his stock down to
the price of old linen is for George V. to
attend church either without a shirt at all
or in one built on the commonsense plan
favored by navvies and golfers. Why the
starched and ironed rags have ever been
worn in a climate such as Australia lias is
one of the great, unfathomable mysteries of
social life.
There are signs of a change of heart in the
Vic. Education Department. When build-
ing the latest State school (at Noble Park,
near Dandenong) the administration
avoided the necessity for paying high prices
for Oregon and Baltic by the audacious device
of using Australian timbers throughout. The
Department may yet be found working at
Australian-made desks, stocked with Aus-
tralian paper, pens, ink and other once-
imported necessaries. Still, of course, it is
easier to have one’s leadpeneils made in
New York or Germany than to worry the
Federal Government about keeping its pre-
election promises to look after Australian in-
dustries.
* * * *
A staff-sergeant in Pharaoh’s late estate
swells the chorus of praise for the
Y.M.C.A. Billzac, he says, realises
that all, or nearly all he receives in
the way of recreation (not to mention pen-
nibs, writing-pads, envelopes, books, wrap-
ping-paper, string and good advice) comes
wholly from this beneficent institution, free
and for the asking. At first Bill was vaguely
suspicious of this “something-for-nothing”
policy, and he’d look furtively about for a
collection-plate; but that day is long past,
and he knows now that the only hint he’s
liable to get of “church” is when one of the
neatly-printed wall-notices—such as “Be the
kind of fellow your mother thinks you are”
-confronts him iu the middle of a “blanky”
and makes him'"feel that a “dash” would do
as well. Although, as a general thing, Bill
doesn’t go much on religion’s forms, yet the
practical Christianity of the “Y-emma” has
appealed so strongly to his sense of fair
dinkum, that when Armageddon is over Bill
will never forget the association which took
off its coat and got down to business what
time a score of other “movements” were
futilely arguing and wondering when and
where they’d better begin.
-X- * * *
Sara Bernhardt’s motto is from the
Italian “Che Sara Sara.” ' What will be
will be, which she Frenchified as “Quand
Meme.” All the same, after more than half
a century of hard work, she must be taken as
a business woman all through. Had her
recent fever been real she would have per-
ished early, like her friend Aimee Desclde.
All Bernhardt’s eccentricities were for the
reclame, the advt. She did little more than
walk through her parts in Australia. So
the astonishing statements about her activity
may be discounted. It is told privately that
one Saturday in Melbourne she x’ehearsed all
the morning, played in the afternoon and
again at night. At midnight she went oft’
to De Castella’s St. Hubert's, in Melba’s
Lilydale district. There she put in the
Sunday, and is alleged to have shot a native
bear in a tree. (For goodness sake, don’t let
this reach Norman Lindsay’s ear.) Sara’s
scenery came from Paris, except that of
Theodora, painted by Hennings, who had
shown Ills virility with the scenery for
Miln’s “Antony and Cleopatra.” Nobody
could understand here how in Paris the
lobby would be thronged .by agitated men
in the entr’actes of her performance. How-
ever, that’s a secret.
• * * *
“Reinforcements”: Liverpool isn’t very
far from Sydney, and the opportunities for
losing letters addressed to soldiers who are
in camp there are not great; but. the
authorities make the most of them. Within
a fortnight of going into camp I had three
letters and one telegram lost for me. Then
after being hurriedly transferred to rein-
forcements and removed from “Siberia,”
where the recruits are kept, I got the glad
news that three letters had arrived for me —
at the place I had come from. I hopefully
awaited delivery. After a couple of days the
Recruits Depot orderly-room made up a
budget of letters addressed to transferred
men, sent them away, and that is the last
that is known about them. They may have
worn out and drooped to pieces or been
devoured by mice, but they have not turned
up at Battalion Headquarters, and the camp
post-office, when annealed to, looks blank
and scratches its ear.
* * * «
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Recently de-
stroyed by fire, Hereford House, on the
Kelso side of the Macquarie, the old home
of James Rutherford, of Cobb and Co. and
other ventures. The Hereford estate has a
historic place in Mountain lore. It was the
EVIDENT.
SHE: “If you were the last man on the earth, I couldn't marry you."
H E: “Of course not —there would be no parson."
reward of 2000 acres given by Governor
Macquarie to Captain Cox for constructing
the first road from Emu Plains to Bathurst
in 1813, and the gift passed through many
hands until it reached Rutherford’s. When
it fired, Jim’s widow was in occupation, and
had a narrow escape from death, she having
delayed to gather in some heirlooms.
* * * *
“The Immature Male”: Over here iu
Pharaoh-land railway employees can’t very
well complain about the monotony of their
job. At a “station” on the Sinai Peninsula
the Gippo porters are trained to tackle any-
thing, from a “tank” to a tin of milk. This
is what I saw them take out of a local
“goods” : 22 camels, one mobile hospital and
accessories, two siege-guns, one dental chair,
50 mules, a truck-load of Christmas parcels
for Billjim, five field-kitchens, a brace of
staff-officefs (marked “fragile”), 2cwt of
canned peaches and the innards of an aero-
plane—The only heavenly thing in the con-
signment.
REINFORCEMENTS.
“I'm making you an apricot cake for your
birthday."
“All right, my dear. Tell me when you want
it lifted out of the oven and I’ll send
John to help you."
“Plumber”: Met my little Billy Anzae
again yesterday. He looked a trifle paler
than usual, and his arm was in a sling.
“Hullo, Billy; what’s up now ? Climbing
trees?” “No; nothin’! Just come back
from the doctor’s. Collarbone’s broken.”
“Is that it? How’d you do it, Billy?” “Th’
dog knocked me over last Saturday.” “What!
Four days ago? Why didn’t they get it set
before? Didn’t it hurt?” “A bit; but
Dad’s away and Mum had all the cows to
look after, so I didn’t sing out. Just went
and hammered th’ dog.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : The military and pensions people
both decline to wowse over the soldier’s lady
whose matrimonial status is uncertain.
About one who had been married in church
all right, but was alleged to have another
and previous husband somewhere in the
background, the Pensions Office assured me:
“At worst, sbe is an unmarried wife.” The
Military Allotment Office said: “At worst,
she could collect as an additional wife.” I
don’t know which term is the more delicate.
“Globe’s” complaint:—
The man on transport duty is treated as a rank
outsider. In England, the Commonwealth Bank,
London, is the only place where he can
exchange money free of commission, .whereas soldiers
have also two or three different offices to choose
from, and the English public look on Aus-
tralian notes and silver, without a 20 or 30
per cent, exchange, as expensive curios. At the
Agent-Generals’ offices transport is not recognised as
being on active service, so he receives none
of the invitations extended to soldier’s to
inspect the Royal Mews, Houses of Parlia-
ment and other sideshows. If in uniform,
which he has to supply himself, he is subject to
the same restrictions as soldiers in regard to place?
declared out of bounds to active-service men. Con-
cessions are given on the English railways to the
military; but not to the transport man unless he
happens to be a pommy. Then he gets a pass home
every six months. The transport man pays income
tax, yet to-day, when every soldier on this ship
recorded his vote for the Federal elections, no
arrangements were made for us. I myself,
enlisted with the Navy till the end of the war, but
had to sign an agreement which stated that the
service carried no pension rights. Transport workers
have little to say, and think less of what they are
doing for the country. Many have had their share
of war, a lot have been wounded and some killed,
but you never see their names in the lists of honor.
The motto is: No active-service privileges, and all
the muck.
THE PASSING OF THE CAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The mice are sporting gaily in the wheat-stacks and
the houses,
They frolic in their thousands, and the damage that
they do
A storm of indignation ’gainst the Government
arouses;
The pest grows greater daily, and the outlook’s truly
blue;
For the mice are bound to play
When the eats are all away—
Yes, the cats are all away.
The furriers have turned them to a purpose, which
was new,
Tabby, tortoise-shell and black,
They are sleeping on the back
Of rhe soldier’s smiling donah, or his pretty Sister
Sue.
1 never see a fur-coat but I tremble for the farmer,
And suffer sad misgivings re the fate of household
stores;
I never see a soldier out a-walking with his charmer
(Looking lovely in the garment which her very soul
adores),
But I heave a sigh and say—
"Oh, the cats are all away—
Black, tortoiseshell and grey.
Of the dead I’emains of mousers I ani holding a
review.”
The girls are nice and sweet,
But the mice who eat the wheat
Pray for gallant Billjim’s donah and his pretty
Sister Sue.
Myself am somewhat smitten by a sportive human
kitten,
Whose coat onte lived on mousers that have met
their Waterloo;
And when she talks of cheeses which the blithesome
mice have bitten,
I answer: “Little lady, it is all along o’ you;
For the mice come out to play
If the eats wear garments gay—
Becoming, warm and gay—
Being dyed to nicely match the gentle wearer's
native hue.
Ah, the badge of all your tribe
(Says this caustic singing scribe)
Is the catty coat you coveted, my little Sister Sue.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


gd
Tk SIGNS of SUPERIORITY
in Blue and Black Serges, Coatings,
and Dress materials are proclaimed
by the trade-marks here illustrated.
Every yard of
Genuine FOX Serges
bears these trade-marks. Ask for
“Fox” Serges—look for the trade-
marks —insist on these guarantees of
quality.
Manufactured by FOX Brothers & Co. Ltd., Somerset,
Eng. If you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally write
the agents. Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest store-
keeper stocking it.
HDDS WELL, CLARKE 8 CO
fg
LEEDS.
Locos, of all Types.
ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BEST.
Agent—
J. GERMAN, Engineer. Ocean House, Moore St., Sydney
TAKING NO CHANCES.
H IM: “Go on; you don’t need a holiday.
You’re as fit as a fiddle.”
H ER: “Maybe, just now —but I’ll be played
out before I've convinced you that I
need a holiday.”
The egregious Douglas Sladen has pub-
lished a snobbish booklet concerning the
gilded British prisoners at the Ruhleben
camp in Germany. Sladen evidently intends
the following to make Jeames’s blood boil or
his flesh creep:—
Picture an earl—who has remained incognito, a
baronet, a leading Manchester solicitor, and a
banker—to take no further instances, finding them-
selves with only ten shillings a week to spend; sent
to bed at early hours under the absolute control of
a common guard. Picture them having to go bowl
in hand for their meals, like paupers to a soup
kitchen.
The thought of those distinguished internees
having to appear anything like paupers
reminds one forcibly that none of them ever
said a word, or did a thing, to prevent the
perpetuation of pauperism in England. Had
there been no paupers the harrowing com-
parison could never have been drawn.
* • * *
“S.T.S.”: Tasmania must be fond of liti-
gation if it has run, as stated B. 19/4/T7,
an Equity suit in the Full Court to settle
that a soldier’s will was good though un-
witnessed. The page in each paybook headed
“Will” contains no instructions of any kind,
so about half of those that get filled in are
left unwitnessed. South Aus. has never made
any difficulty about admitting them to pro-
bate, though an affidavit as to the hand-
writing is of course required. . I have even
known two cases of an ordinary gossipy
letter from the trenches being accepted as a
will because it included a remark, “In case
I get knocked out, I want my insurance
money to be divided between” so-and-so. It
is S aid that will-making is to be declared a
compulsory military function prior to
embarkation.
“G.”: The never-ceasing swell around
North Keeling Island has told its tale on the
broken Emden. Abaft where the bridge
should be has been completely washed away,
and the forepart is high and dry at low tide.
Being firmly embedded in the coral shores
of the island, what is left of the wreck
should be visible for years. The steel
remains. On a dot miles away are the cable
and wireless stations, where the operators
wait for another naval fight to cheer them
up. I passed there a week ago, and they
•wirelessed pathetically: “Wish you could
come in. We’ve not seen a stranger for
months. What does fresh meat taste like?”
Jack Sommers: Here in smashed and
muddy Flanders we met a working herd
of the weird outcast brotherhood known as
the N.C.C.’s (Non-Combatant Corps). It is
their job in life to mend roads and endure
insults from the fighting men. Their entry
into the Australian zone was not marked by
many expressions of goodwill, but the
“boys,” as a rule, treated them with a
quiet contempt. (Other troops try to
roast ’em in their nuts.) They walk
to their work with a kind of wonder
in their mild, mostly-bespectacled, non-
combatant eyes, and are a queer breed
of pariahs, whose Tommie N.C.O.’s
don’t spare their feelings. Personally
I think they’ve got a devil of a lot of
pluck to stick it out. I’di sooner face
the whole Hun outfit myself.
If the principle of shifting a man
from police-court, to camp can be jus-
tilled, it seems to have
been so in a batch of
rail w a y prosecutions
lately half-heard in
Adelaide. The offenders
were conductors or port-
ers who had collected
small sums for excess
fares, and kept back
sundry coppers (to make
up for “shortages,” one
of them said). It was
theft, all right, but they
were all young, had all
lost their billets in con-
sequence of their be-
havior, and had there-
after enlisted. The
Bench thought that they
had learned their lesson,
and declined to register
a conviction, and sent
them along to -wipe out
the stain with blood
< Fritz’s) in the good
old melodrama way.
• *
It was after an 18 hours’ continuous desert
patrol. Bill had whooshtaed and cursed and
coaxed bis supercilious camels back to camp,
had wearily emptied half the Libvan desert
out of his boots, and was just preparing to
turn in, when his name was passed along
for water fatigue. “Blime!” remarked Bill,
feelingly, “Egypt’s a bell of a place l No
-wonder the Holy Childen imshied.”
* * * *
From the oozy bottom of a lake in the
Melb. Exhibition Gardens, which was being
cleaned, someone picked up a medal awarded
in ’B6 to bowler J. A. Manning, of the Hawks-
burn C.C., and stolen 27 years ago. Stranger
is the history of the pedestal for the model
of the original Eight Hours monument.
This has been found under the stage of the
old Trades Hall, now in course of removal,
and model and pedestal will stand on the
table of the council chamber. The model,
which depicts a workman and the statue of
Liberty holding a torch, was designed by
Percival Ball, the sculptor. When the
pedestal in Spring-street, which carries the
present Eight Hours monument —-a crude
tallow-candle conception of granite—was
unveiled, the model was taken along to the
celebration and left, between drinks, in
Johnny Sheehan’s pub over the road. Here
it stood on the dining-table for years, until
removed by Ben Douglas, an old-time union-
ist. Eventually he gave the model to the
Trades Hall. "The pedestal had been placed
under the stage when the statuette was first
mislaid. Now that they are united, the
original design may be carried out. But it
will cost £3OO6 —a mere matter of detail
these days.
* * * *
At South Yarra station, Melb., one after-
noon recently a small boy fell off the plat-
form as a train ran in, and apparently went
down under the wheels; but while . the
mother was putting up heartrending cries a
porter came from the other side and deposited
a whole boy on the asphalt. The kid had
landed oto his flat between the wheels, and
was not even scratched. Mamma grabbed
little Willie, she glared at him wildly, she
gave him a shake-up that nearly dislocated
his neck. “You little imp!” she cried,
(Shake, shake.) “You little devil!”
(Dust knocked out of him.) “Careless
young wretch !” ( Biff.. Shake.) “I’ll teach
you—falling under trains and spoiling your
clothes!”
FLYING FOR SAFETY.
SHE: “Poor Freddy seems so depressed. I
hear he has enlisted and wants to go
straight to the firing-line.”
H E: “Yes. He was engaged to four different
girls, and they’ve just found him out.”
"Brossie”: When you buy a packet of
chocolate at the troopship canteen and find
inside a friendly message from some gener-
ous Australian girl, you wonder how you
came to acquire such a pleasure in
such a plain commercial way. And
when you open your purchased tin
of tobacco and discover that another
nice Australian sister hopes you will
see her face in tiie smoke-wreaths, you ask
yourself why in thunder the canteeners don’t
search their stock for these incriminating
documents before they sell them to the men
who should got them for nothing! Many a
time w T hen leaning oyer the rail and trying
to puzzle it out, I have seen a box go over-
board, hit the sea a resounding smack, and
read as it drifted astern the label, “Comforts
for Soldiers.”
Those returned soldiers whom a patriotic
Government is putting on five-acre blocks of
market-garden land round Melbourne will be
returning their little holdings in clods when
they find out a little more about the job.
Consider the Moorabbin and Burwood gar
deners on their 20-acre blocks this season.
The latter lot planted acres of tomatoes, and
reaped about a case to the acre. Some rue-
fully ploughing them in. Moorabbin got a
half-crop—at Bs. to 10s. a case. To-day
some Burwood men are taking in three 60-
dozen loads of “caulis” a week and getting
ss. to Ss. a dozen for them, while poor Moo-
rabbin, which can’t grow “caulis," drags up
cabbages and has to be thankful to get rid of
them at 2d. a dozen. Turk’s heads and
pumpkins are lying under the hedges wait-
ing for a rise and rotting. They bring 6d.
a dozen ; yet the lady who cooks them pays
6d. for one decent Turk in the cheapest
suburban shop. That’s where the main
trouble lies, the middleman — and the tongue-
in-cheek politician.
South Australia absolutely refuses to
listen to the bark of the sectarian. There
was a “rally” in the Exhibition Building at
Adelaide lately, to show that Australia is by
some unspecified means, getting into the
clutch of Borne. (S.A. has a smaller R.C.
proportion of population than any other
State except Tasmania.) The opposition
mustered in some force and asked the
speakers awkward questions, but there was
no more excitement than at an ordinary poli-
tical meeting. The minority finally called
for and gave three cheers for the Pope. And
even then no heads were broken!
“Bad Bill”: Here’s an order issued by
A.I.F. Headquarters in Horseferry-road :
The strictest discipline is to be maintained between
the A.I.F. and the Civilian Staff. This covers both
the period of office hours and afterwards. No com-
munication should take place between the two sets
of staff, other than that demanded by the exigencies
of the service. 1! this instruction is not strictly
carried out, arrangements will be made to place all
the A.I.F. Staff in barracks. Individual failure to
observe the above rule will be followed by the
soldier being returned to Tidworth.
This is how T the joke works out. When I
came here (London) from Gallip. I met my
Doreen and we got hitched, but as I can
get no separation allowance for her because
we did not get spliced in Australia, she
works at ’Eadquarters with me. Now 7 they
tell me I’m not to speak to my own missus!
SOMETHING MISSING.
H E: “A fine orchestra within, a nice seat in the shade of palms and a charming girl—
what else could one wish for?”
S HE: “A nice man.”
THE POETS TRUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet wrote in measure fine
Of sonorous and honeyed line
His love for Joan, the small and sweet,
VVho’d come on little golden feet.
And in her rose-leaf hands, he swore,
Imprisoned him for evermore.
He sang of Joan's brown eyes, whose fire
Gave warmth like wine. His vibrant lyre
Lent music to her hair and stress
Of measured grace and tunefulness
To ears and lips’ deep corners where
Were neetared sweets and essence rare.
Joan’s wee, brave, lilied breasts he sang,
And at his touch a psean rang
In honor of her waist so slim,
The fondling turn of every limb,
Her neck, like suave, old ivory,
Where ’neath his lip her life ran free.
He sang a land of bliss alone
Where he might bide with love and Joan.
All raptures dear she brought to him
Of devils and of seraphim.
This wondrous song he sold next day,
And bought a stole of furs for May!
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.


CIVILISATION: “AND THIS WAS THE CAUSE OF IT ALL!”
I
k fe .oO° 1
1
tl J^l 8


REFLECTIONS.


MAKES COUGH SYRUP WITH TAR
AND SUGAR.
A CHEMIST’S RECIPE.
“As a chemist, I have, of course, long
been familiar with the virtue of bitrate of
tar in the treatment of coughs, colds,
catarrh and bronchial troubles; but did not
give it any thought until one day my wife
contracted a severe cough which refused to
yield to all the usual remedies from which
she sought relief. It then occurred to me
that bitrate of tar might be just the thing,
and I decided to make an experiment with
its use. I made a plain syrup by dissolving
half a pound of sugar in half a pint of hot
water, and then stirred in 2 ounces of bitrate
of tar. This made nearly a pint of a pleasant
cough syrup, of which I told my wife to
take two teaspoonfuls every hour. By the
end of the first day, much to her delight as
well as my own, the cough had disappeared
and has not returned. I was so pleased that
now whenever anyone asks for a cough syrup
I advise the use of this simple home-made
syrup, for honestly believe it is one of the
best for coughs, colds, catarrh and bronchial
troubles.” Bitrate of tar, as is W-ell known,
possesses peculiar healing and soothing
properties: and owing to the great demand
for it all leading chemists have made special
arrangements to keep a liberal supply in
stock. — Apvt.
3
&&&*.- w
asr;
'' l <i
o ■„
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&WHITTY
*0
UuMt
ME
OUf\NE& SYDNEY
[lf' any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBE Y’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Secretary Henry Wellsteed Apperly suc-
ceeds veteran Richard Teece as manager of
the A.M.P. after 42 years’ service with the
big society. Born in Melbourne in 1861 he
came to Sydney when a boy with his parents
and was educated at the Fort-street and
Grammar Schools. He joined the Society
as a junior articled clerk in 1875. In 18S5
he became accountant of the Adelaide branch
and six months later was promoted to Mel-
bourne. Four years later he was in charge
of the actuarial computing staff at the head
office (Sydney), and soon afterwards became
accountant. He was the first manager of
the Society’s new industrial branch (1904) ;
first Resident Secretary of the London
branch (1908) ; and succeeded the late R.
B. Cameron as secretary in 1910. When he
had nothing to do he was Queensland’s chess
champion.
THE RECRUITING SERGEANT.
VETEBAN : “Yes, I tell y' straight, old man,
when Lis chucked me an’ married you it
fair broke me tip. I came over here to
try and forget about it.”
LATE ARRIVAL: “So did I.”
The name of Richard Davies Hanson, a
long-ago Chief Justice of South Aus.., was
recalled last week when his only son died in
Adelaide, after a long and useful but quiet
life in the civil service. The third Richard
Davies Hanson is now in the trenches.
Among recent investitures of the Military
Cross at Buckingham Palace was that of
Major Percy W. Woods, a N. 8. Wales
fighter. He was company-sergeant-major of
the 3rd Battalion, and gained his first star
two years ago—just after Lone Pine. A
lieutenant three months later, he received a
captaincy in the 55th Battalion in March,
1916, and was later made adjutant. Now he
has the crown at 32.
“Seguidor”: Some months ago The
Bulletin gave a par. to the earlier adven-
tures of a Richmond (Vic.), lad, by name
Francis Luksehewitz, otherwise Luks, whose
comrade was the wind that tramps the world.
A wanderer since boyhood, he had the ambi-
tion to serve the Allies as an aviator.
Turned down in England, he went to Russia,
but was imprisoned as a spy, and came home
A WOMAN'S WAY.
“But. I thought your wife had forgiven you
and promised to forget it?"
“So she has, old man. But she didn't promise
to let me forget she’d forgiven me.”
in disgust after gaining his freedom. Soon
he left again for London, and his mother
heard that efforts were being made by Aus-
tralians in England to get him into the Fly-
ing Corps. Then “silence for a while.” Now
she has received a French field postcard in
which her son tells her that he is in the
Foreign Legion, and has won a decoration.
He is still going strong —-unlike his only
brother, Bob, who, leaving Australia with
the Bridging Train, had the bad luck to get
his foot crushed in Egypt, where he is still
in hospital.
William Hamilton writes: —
In B. 19/4/’l7 the honor was given to Private L.
Keyzor for being the first V.C. winner in N. S. Wales.
My son, John Hamilton, was a member of the same
battalion as Keyzor and gained the great distinction
at Lone Pine. Private John Hamilton is the first
native-born V.C. winner for N. S. Wales. He was
born in Orange. I was born in Canterbury
(N.S.W.), and my father first saw light on the
I-lawkesbury. You can see that the boy is the true
merino. Keyzor is an Englishman.
Some surviving ex-S.. Aus. Parliamen-
tarians over 80 and thereabouts: H. B. T.
Strangways (85, residing in Eng.), Charles
Goode (90 this month, Adelaide’s oldest
merchant), Robt. A. Tarlton (89, residing
in S. Africa), Ebenezer Ward (now in
West Aus.), philanthropist Edwin T. Smith
(in his 88th), John Cheriton, John Bosworth,
William Gilbert (in his 89th), Alfred Catt
and Simpson New!and (who wrote “Paving
the Way”).
“Dryberra” : Major Price. J. Morgan, dead
of. wounds in France, was more familiarly
and affectionately known at Duntroon as
“Mary” Morgan, where he was one of the
best all-round athletes of the College. His
particular Duntroon pal, Capt. W. R. Hodg-
son, also of the Artillery, was badly wounded
in the Landing on April 25. That day he
won the Croix de Guerre. Few of the first
batch from Duntroon got away from Gal-
lipoli safely, and the. death toll was heavy.
Two of them, Boyle (the youngest of the
first batch and a captain at 20) and Cap-
tain Capes, are back at the College on the
instructional staff.
“Musketoon”: Dr. Florence, a Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.) medico, addressed a re-
cruiting meeting at that town the other
night, and got no response to his appeal.
This is how he told the crayfish what he
thought of them: “Well, be d —d to you!
Stay where you are! If you get sick don’t
sent for me to help you; go elsewhere, and
be d —to you.” The doctor’s wife, who
was a Miss Pinkstone, has four brothers in
khaki. Another is in a soldier’s grave at Gal-
lipoli. Her father is Fred Pinkstone, who
ran the Coota Herald for many years.
Lt.-Col. W. K. Bolton, the new Victorian
soldier Senator, who, before he joined the
win-the-war crowd on the hustings, had ex-
perience of the real thing in Gallipoli, is
the father of a family which carries a punch.
Dad is 54, and was in charge of the Bth
Battalion. His eldest son, Capt. John G.,
was with his parent at Anzac and is now
in France. He has had a varied career as
an engineer in the U.S. and South America,
having boiled his billy on the Andes. Ser-
geant Hammersley G. is with the Canucks,
having donned the maple-leaf as a private.
He was at Pozieres and the Somme, and
carries three wounds. Lieut. .Moore Hunter
Bolton, electric-tram engineer, was twice
wounded in ' Gallipoli, where his stay ex-
tended from the landing to the Cape Helles
fighting. Sister Ethel May. now of Melb.
Base Hospital, has nursed Billjims in Egypt.
Everyone else in the family is too young
for active service.
D. B. "Fry, killed in action with the A.1.F.,
was for six years on the scientific staff of
Sydney Museum, and at the outbreak of war
he was taking a science course at the
Uni., and acting as demonstrator in zoology
under Prof. Haswell. Fry first wore khaki
in the A.M<C., and made two voyages
in hospital ships as orderly. Then he
got a transfer to the infantry, studied
at Duntroon, and saluted as a lieu-
tenant; but there being no room in
that rank he marched as a sergeant.
At Salisbury Plains (Eng.) he fo.und
that even the sergeant’s stripes must
go if he wanted to get to the Front in
a hurry; so off they came, and this
good Australian joined the other good
Australians in the ranks. A younger
brother, also in the A.1.F., was killed in
August last year.
A young man with a name well-known in
Victoria was killed at Bapaume in March.
This was Private Charles Neild, sometime an
architect employed by the Water Supply
Commission. He was a son of that Dr.
Neild who was for so many years City
Coroner and widely-known literary and
theatrical critic. Young Neild went through
Pozieres, only to meet his death later on by
the explosion of a German trap while he
was helping to pass comforts around among
his fellow-Billjims. *
William Addis, one-time assistant minister
at Charles Strong’s church in Melbourne,
died in London recently. All his life he was
a sufferer from religions itch, a painful spiri-
tual complaint. Addis was born into the
Free Church of Scotland, his dad being a
meenister thereof. As a youth he turned to
Church of England, but later he took up
Roman Catholicism and became a priest
under Cardinal Manning’s wing. He stayed
in the R.C. Church for 10 years, and finally
he was ordained in the Anglican Church.
EDMUND JOWETT, Nationalist candidate
for Maribyrnong (Vic.).
Hard upon the heels of the news that
Flight Lieutenant Reggie Baillieu, big
“Bill’s” nephew, had won the Military Cross,
came the announcement that the feat had
been imitated by William the Great’s second
son, Harry L. This iad, who is 25, enlisted
in Blighty, passed as an officer, and got his
star in the Eighth Artillery Brigade, B.E.F.
Then he got to business in France, where
lie recently acquired a slight wound. He is
an old Melbourne boy, and rowed for two
years in the Public Schools’ Race.
“Hamer”: Private Jack Gillespie, of Glen
Innes (N.S.W.), has had some stirring ad-
ventures, for which the Defence authorities
are mainly responsible. In November last
he was reported wounded, and, later on.
missing (presumably a prisoner). But a
recent casualty list proclaimed him as
amongst the killed in action. His father,
reckoning that too much was happening tc
his son, set some inquiries afoot, and these
brought an urgent telegram from the
Department t c
say that the young
man had died a 1
Pozieres in Oeto
her, which was
before all the
other things hac
happened to him
Just when his ac
tual fate seemed
certain, a furthei
telegram rushec
in with the infor-
mation that the
y o u n gstei
was all right
and back ir
the firing-
line!
MAJOR
KERR-PEARSE,
Military ane
Private Sec.
to Excellency
Ferguson.
“N. or M.’s” farewell: —
Dead at Hobart, aged 09, W. H. Burgess,
who for many years past has had a finger in most
ot' the Speck’s pies. lie, started in his father’s
grocery store, and as head of the firm of Burgess
and Bovutt continued the business until he found a
wider outlet in wine and spirits and general mer-
chandise. In ’Bl he won the West Hobart seat in
the Assembly, was “Colonial Treasurer” in Adyt
Douglas’s Ministry from ’B4 .to ’B6, and again under
Philip Fysh, after which he retired (though still
remaining on the Executive) until last year, when,
urged by the Libs., he stood for Denison, was re-
turned by a big majority, and proved a frank and
level-headed critic of his party’s financial policy.
He was an alderman from ’76 to ’Bl, mayor from
’79 to ’BO, Warden of the Marine Board and Master
Warden. He was a moving spirit in the construc-
tion of Hobart’s Ocean Pier, which is the biggest
of its kind in the world. For a number of year?
before his death he was Consul for France. He
had the bitter experience of being one of the direc-
tors -of the ill-fated V.D.L. Bank; was one of the
first to identify himself with the volunteer movement
and served in the forces as captain and adjutant o)
Artillery; member of the Royal Society of Tas.; was
prominent in the Chamber of Commerce; keer
on sport, football and cricket, but more particularly
rowing; and gave active help to various association l
and clubs. Finally he was a fine, broad-minded man.
“Third Turn”: Moustached like one oi
Napoleon’s field-marshals, and with the court
liuess of an old-time Irish gentleman, Hugl:
Toohey, who died at Abbotsford (Vic.)
leaves a gap in the ranks of the Legislative
Assembly’s general division staff which none
of the younger brigade can fill. He hac
been 3S years in the service, and was nearly
TO years of age. He was a privileged re
tainer, and a member was not really i
member until Toohey had shaken him by
the hand and welcomed him to the Assembly
Fui’ther details of the surprising adven
tures of Private A. Sast, a Russian-bori
soldier of. the famous 10th (South Austra
lian) Battalion, show that his strenuous
entry into Gallipoli was the prelude to i
knockabout turn which took him all over thi
Turkish Empire. In the front rank at tin
Landing, he was taken with a mixed crowc
of prisoners by way of Maidos to Constan
tinople, and was eventually sent to Rustchuk
on the Danube. His Bulgar guards made th<
error of overlooking his body belt, whict
held 20 good Australian sovereigns. Witt
some of these he subsidised an escape, f
Bulgar agreeing to take him across intc
Roumania. Finally he reached Moscow
where the British authorities picked him ir
and sent him to England.
The Public Trustee is anxious to assist
any member of the A. I. Force in.the prepar-
ation and execution of his will, free ol
charge, and for that purpose the office of the
Public Trustee on the third floor, Culwulla
Chambers, 67 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
will be open on Monday evenings from 6.30
to 9 p.m.
THE BULLDOGGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M. Andre Tudsq, Lb Journal’s correspondent at
the British headquarters, refers to the Anzacs’ mettle
and Canada’s magnificent tenacity. Both have estab-
lished the following law: “Wherever we are installed
in -the trenches we don’t give way an inch.”
Now this is the creed of the Anzac men,
The men with the hearts of gold :
“What we win from the foe, by the steel and gun,
By the steel and gun we hold.
“From the heights afar, and the sky above,
There may come the hail of death,
But we yield no yard of the ground we’ve won,
Till the last man yields his breath.
“We are few, who should have been many, here,
And our ranks are thinning fast,
But, by the Christ who died, for each boy who falls
We will take toll to the last.
“We are fighting now for the folks at home,
For the land from which we came;
And we’re hanging on, and we’re fighting hard,
And we’re dying hard and game. ,
“There are long, quiet nights for our gallant mates
Who have fought and who, fighting,' fell;
But, for every one who has dropped his gun,
There’s a fresh Hun face in Hell.”
Ayel This is-the creed of the Anzac men,
The men with the hearts of gold:
“What we’ve won from the Hun by the steel and gun
By the Lord our God we’ll hold.”
N.S.W.
JOHN TAYLOR.


2
\
\
J
o
f o.
o
&
K
-r-^
r
O
/
7 .
They all love Three Cadies
tf: £>. * sg. a fceiA


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary. "
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
ADAMAX ROOFING
is made of the toughest long-fibred woollen felt, thoroughly impregnated with pure mineral
Asphaltum, then finished off with a special process. It is rendered immune to the effects of heat,
cold, wind and rain. ADAMAX ROOFING has special features of its own, being thicker yet
more pliable than other roofings. Costs only one-third the present price of iron, and is more easily
handled than iron roofing. It will neither pinhole, rust, rot, melt nor crumble. The Govern-
ments of N. S. Wales, Victoria and West Australia have used Adamax Roofing in large quantities.
Send for free Booklet, “The Adamax Series,” and samples.
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
v MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C.' ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1909. .£18,003 7 p.c. =£10,062 £7,941 £119,596
Sept., 1909.. 17,974 7 „ „ 10,500 7,474 127,070
Mar., 1910.. 18,549 7 „ 10,500 8,049 135.119
Sept., 1910.. 18,844 7 „ „ 10,500 8,344 143,463
Mar., 1911.. 20,529 7 ~, ~ 10,500 10,029 153,492
Sept., 1911.. 20,180 7 ~ ~ 10,500 9,680 163,172
Mar., 1912.. 22,771 8 ~ ~ 12,000 10,771 173,943
Sept., 1912.. 22,464 8 „ „ 12,000 10,464 184,407
Mar., 1913.. 23,052 8 „ „ 12,0'00 11,052 195,459
Sept., 1913.. 22,637 8 ~,,12,000 10,637 206,096
Mar., 1914.. 23,069 8 ~ ~ 12,000 11,069 217,165
Reserves disclosed . . 15,000 232,165
Sept., 1914.. 20,180 Bp.c.= 12,000 8,180 240.345
Mar., 1915.. 19,316 8 ~,,12,000 7,316 247,661
Sept., 1915.. 17,255 8 „ „ 12,000 5,255 252,916
Mar., 1916.. 19,485 8 „ „ 12,000 7,485 260.401
Sept., 1916.. 19,590 8 „ „ 12,000 7,590 267,991
Mar., 1917.. 22,164 8 „ „ 12,000 10,164 278,155
Yes, and why not? Why shouldn’t the
profits for the past half-year be the largest
on record except for a couple of specially
fruitful terms before the war? Look at
the balance-sheet figures as at March 31: —
1914. 1916. 1917.
Notes in circulation .. L 1,103 £B9l £BBO
Bills in circulation, etc. 59,322 197,864 262,583
Deposits at interest ..1,491,800 1,559,>86 1,547,298
Free deposits . . . . 833,490 999,303 1,123,947
Liquid assets .. ..1,261,233 1,178,962 1,477,911
Advances .. ..1,590,682 2.065,633 1,963,483
Premises . . • • 62,965 85,050 83,470
Thus since the beginning of tlie war this
bank has got £548,993 more of the public’s
money; that is to say, in these war years
the people have added 23 p.c. to their
deposits, etc., in this bank.
And this bank has merely had the com-
mon experience. The N. S. Wales banking
averages, in fact, show that during the
three years the total increase in deposits has
been as much as 28 p.c. Now, most of it is
current account money: the depositor has
merely left it for safe custody. In the
Royal the deposits at interest account for
only £55,498 of the total increase of
£548,993. And that £55,498 is all Govern-
ment money. In N. S. Wales the averages
show an increase of £15,092,000 in tne
current account money and only £2,198,000
in the deposits at interest. So it is mostly
free money which is piling up in the banks;
and, though the banks can’t use all of it,
they can use some of it. Thus _the Royal,
though it is paying for only £55,498 more
fixed deposits, has increased its advances by
£372-,801 and its other revenue-earning assets
by about £lOO,OOO. So it ought to be mak-
ing more money than it did in 1913, even
though the Commonwealth Bank is cutting
into the exchange business, and notwith-
standing the larger taxes and other charges.
In fact, in view of. the much higher
charges for accommodation, this pape.r will
be much surprised if this and other banks
couldn’t show larger profits than they are
doing, but very wisely prefer to put a bit
up their sleeves for contingencies. And
there are contingencies all right—in a world-
upheaval of this sort nobody can foresee
what will happen. Further, as soon as the
war is over there will be a steady demand .
on these large current account balances, and
that will cut out a considerable source of
present revenue. Whether there will be,
on the other hand, any conditions to swell
profits, is not clear. Nobody suspected that
there would be anything like a trade boom
at the end of three years of war. But the
lavish employment of the national credit
lias, produced one. There is no telling what
the national credit may not do after the war.
The Bank of Adelaide (S. Australia) :
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904 . . £47,337 8 p.c. = £32,000 £15,337 £253,077
4 905.. 47,876 8 „ „ 32,000 15,876 268,953
1906 . . 46,286 8 „ „ 32,000 14.286 283.239
1907.. 56,265 8* „ 34,000 22,265 305,504
1908 . . 56,510 9 „ „ 36,000 20,510 326,014
1909 .. 52,694 94 „ „ 38,000 14,694 340,708
1910.. 66,130 10 „ „ 40,000 26,130 366,838
Premiums on new shares. . 50,000 416,838'
1911.. 79,648 10 p.c. = 45,000 34 648 451,486
1912.. 80,598 10 „ „ 50,000 30,598 482.084
1913.. 81,138 10 „ „ 50,000 31,138 513,222
1914.. 71,946 10 „ „ 50,000 21,946 535,168
1915 .. 53,023 9 .. „ 45,000 8,023 543,191
1916.. 49,808 8 ~ „ 40,000 9,806 552,997
Written off, £12,997 .. 540,000
1917 . . 56,173 8 p.c. = 40,000 16,173 556,173
S. Australia is moving very cautiously. It
isn’t living in such an atmosphere of boom
as Sydney imd Melbourne, Sydney in parti-
cular. For , one thing it doesn t produce
very much of the goods that are putting war
profits into some Australian pockets. Though
both N. S. Wales and Victoria produce more
wheat, as a rule, no State grows anything
like so much per head of population. Even
in the year of its most colossal wheat har-
vest —1915-6 —N. S. Wales produced only
36 bushels per head, and that was more than
double the average, whereas S. Aus. has
averaged 47 bushels per head for the past
seven years, including the year of the awful
failure (1914-5). Of wool, its clip averages
less than one-sixth of that of N. S. Wales
and approximately one-half of that of "V ic-
toria'; and it isn’t well situated for the meat-
export trade, mostly for the very reason
that it is well situated for the business of
growing and exporting wheat. Now, this
isn’t a good war for the wheat-grower. The
submarine and the raider have made large
holes in shipping. For that and other reasons
(one of them the greed of shipowners)
freights have been and still are abnormal;
and that hits the wheat-grower and the
wheat-growing State much harder than the
wool-grower or the meat-exporter, because it
costs almost as much to ship a ton of wheat,
worth to the grower fd. per lb., as a ton
of wool, worth 2s. per lb. Partly on that
account, and partly because of the enor-
mously greater expenditure of Defence
Department money in Sydney than in Ade-
laide, the deposits in banks in S. Australia
have increased only from £10.812,543 to
£11.168.209 in the past two years, while in
N. S. Wales the growth has been from
£62,537.000 to £77,531.000. No wonder,
then, that Adelaide and Westralia find it
hard to understand a good many of the
gibes at the Win the War patriots of the
Eastern States!
This Bank of Adelaide is for the afore-
named reasons showing none of that remark-
able expansion which some N. S. Wales and
Victorian institutions exhibit. Actually in
the past two years it has done no more than
might have been expected after any two
years of normal prosperity, > or perhaps
hardly as much. Compared with the posi-
tion just prior to the war most of the figures
are actually less.' Here are the figures:—
1915. 1916. 1917.
Notes in circulation £ll,OOB £9,700 £8,517
Bills, etc 270,436 184,316 '. 270,989
Deposits .. •• 3,486,027 3,459,742 8^759,455
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 2,126,062 1,566,932 2,302,632
Advances .. . . 2,589,386 3,043,900 2,710,842
Premises . . . . 115,209 . 115,923 114,658
The most striking feature of the past year’s
accounts is an increase of deposits coupled
with a reduction of advances, which of course
means between them an increase of liquid
assets. But the changes are not quite what
they seem, because 12 months ago this bank
was helping the Commonwealth Government
to finance the wheat pool. So far as ordinary
advances are concerned the bank has let its
customers have another £270,000. But, even
so, money has been piling up, and no less
than £530,000 was on short call with other
banks on March 31, as compared with
£65,000 12 months previously. Either S. Aus-
tralia can see few likely investments at the
present time, or the Bank is not disposed to
do much for borrowers until the clouds clear.
In those circumstances, considering its heavy
holding of liquid assets —equal to no less
than 56 p.c. of all its liabilities—it shows a
fair profit. Not a large one, by any means—
rather less than 5i p c. on the capital and
reserves combined. But that, again, is the
S. Australian way. It wants good interest if
good interest can be got; but more than all
it doesn’t want to lose its principal. Which
is one reason why S. Aus. has £2l 13d. 6d.
per head in the Savings Bank, while the
Commonwealth average is only £lB 10s.
. » * *
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis. Ltd., stock
and station agents, etc. (Adelaide) :
To Nominal
Mar. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1907. . • £18,540
1908.. £10,629 7 p.c. = £5,250 £5,379 • 23,919
Premium on new shares.. 6,250 30,169
1909.. 6,473 7 p.c. = 6,392 81 30,250
1910.. 10,792 7 ~„ 6,562 4,230' 34,480
3 911. . 15,177 7 „ „ 6,562 8,615 43,095
1912.. 11,693 7 „ „ 6,562 5,131 48,226
1913.. 10,894. 7 „ „ 7,910 2,984 51,210
1914.. 17,321 7 „ „ 8,746 8,'575 59,785
1915.. 7,548 6 „ „ 8,562 58,771
1916.. 22,890 7 „ „ 10,938 11,952 70,723
Reserves.
Goodwill written off, £14,350 . . 56,373
1917.. 18,546 7 p.c. = 10,938 7,608 63,981
This co. is an amalgamation of interests in
the wool and pastoral produce business —the
old still represented on the Board by manag-
ing-director G. W. Bagot; the new by the
wool managers, Geo. Dowling and Geo. Jef-
frey. With John Lewis and Harold Hughes
and other remarkably well-informed S. Aus-
tralian and West Darling sheep and cattle
men on the Board, and with accountant
W. L. Ware as chairman, the co. ought to
find it difficult to make mistakes, even in so
precarious a business as pastoral finance.
For many years it was content to creep.
Then it realised that it was not getting over
all the ground there was to cover, and the
next table shows what happened :
1908. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Capital .. £75,000 £156,250 £156,250 £156,250
Reserves .. 26,515 67,333 76,192 69,419
Liabilities . . 111,380 167,881 279,667 195,949
Sundry debtors
and cash . . 328,259 287,027 411,624 334,803
Premises,plant 1 f 90,090 86,136 86,845
and stock .. 1 100,a33 , 1i350 u,350 Nil
Goodwill •• J .
In fact, even a bit more progress than that
was made, because a subsidiary trustee co.
was formed three or four years ago to look
after the dead man’s money—and there are
very nice pickings in that, especially when
the money is in pastoral property. During
the past year the advances have been reduced
and the co.’s own debts have been relieved
to correspond. This no doubt has been due
to the freer market for wool. Incidentally,
high prices have given the co. another splen-
did year for commission earnings; and the
reserves are now so substantial that the
directors have wiped out the last of the
goodwill, leaving all the capital and reserves
represented by substantial assets —as sub-
stantial, anyway, as advances on station
properties can be. How much is represented
by those advances, how much by advances
against produce in hand, and how much is
cash on hand cannot be told from -the pub-
lished accounts, which are in this respect
defective. Also, on the other side, the lia-
bilities are lumped—“ Sundry creditors in-
cluding fixed deposits and all other liabili-
ties,” the item runs. The directors have,
however, been long enough in the business
to know how dangerous it is to finance dry-
country pastoralists on borrowed money
which is liable to be called for in a hurry.
Still, that is something for the investor to
assure himself about. Three-fourths of all
the money that has been lost by pastoral
finance coS. in Australia has been lost simply
because the cos. haven’t been able to wait
for the country to recover after a drought.
* * * ■*
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and
Co., druggists, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1909 . .£11,214 15 p.c. = £9,000 £2214£11,020
> Feb., 1910.. 11,020 15 „ „ 9,000 2020 13,040
Aug., 1910.. 11,016 15 „ „ 9,0.00 2016 15,056
Feb., 1911 .. 11,085 15 „ „ 9,000 2085 17,141
Aug., 1911 .. 11,988 15 „ „ 9,000 2988 20,129
Feb., 1912 .. 16,033 25 „ „ 15,000 1033 21,162
Aug., 1912.. 14,634 20 „ „ 12,000 2634 23,796
Feb., 1913 . . 16,340 20 „ ~ 12.000 4340 28,136
£30,000 of reserves transferred to capital.
Aug., 1913.. 18,373 15 p.c. = 13,500 4873 3,009
Feb., 1914 . . 20,601 15 „ „ 13,500 7101 10,110
Aug., 1914 .. 17,540 15 „ „ 13,500 4040 14,150
Feb., 1915 .. 16,0(58 15 „ „ 13,500 256 S 16,718
Aug., 1915 . . 15,443 15 „ „ 13,500 1943 18,661
Feb., 1916 . . 15,828 15 „ ~ 13,500 232 S 20,989
Aug., 1916 . . 18,462 15 „ „ 13,500 4962 25,951
Feb., 1917 . . 17,680 15 „ „ 13,500 4180 30,131
And if anybody says that the co. has made
more than that during the past year or two,
and has put the surplus away into a contin-
gency fund, this paper will not be able to
bring any evidence to the contrary. It cer-
tainly will not argue that there is no need to
have a contingency fund. The ccp, like a
good many more, has made large profits by
selling at war prices stuff bought at pre-war
prices; but, then, it has been buying more
stuff at war prices, and some of it probably
will not be sold until the war is over. Then,
in some lines especially, there is going to be
a smash. For bulky goods there may be for
a couple of years a difficulty in getting ship-
ping space ; and for other goods—metals, for
instance—high values are likely to last while
the world is patching itself. But in chemi-
cals there will probably be a rapid fall in
values in Australia as well as in Europe;
and if Washington (Soul’s are providing for
the contingency, it is no more than one
would expect of a co. so prudently managed.
The co. also handles many sidelines that are
more or less luxuries; and, unless the
entirely unexpected happens, the community
will before long look twice at tuppence
before spending it on these things. Maybe
the co. has extended its operations a little;
yet it seems more likely that the profit shown
six or seven years ago was more nearly nor-
mal than that of the period since then.
How extremely profitable the business has
been the dividends show: and the next table
merely supports that conclusion :-
1907. -1916. 1917.
Assets other than stock and
plant £60,474 £162,430 £148,497
Liabilities .. .. 4,490 42,651 47,155
Surplus apart from stock £55,984 £119.779 £101,342
Stock, etc. .. ..£73,882 £94,709 £122,289
All the money that has been got from share-
holders during the 10 years is £30,000. To
that was added £BO.OOO transferred from
reserves, the two sums together carrying
capital up to the present £lBO,OOO. Thus
in 10 years over £45,000 has been, added
to assets apart from stock (most of this
is freehold premises), and nearly £50,000
has been added to stock (book value). Mean-
time a dividend averaging nearly 20 p.c. on
the actually-paid capital has been enjoyed.
There are not many cos. anywhere in this
line of business that can show such results:
generally the chemist’s trade gives little
more than bread and butter on account of
the small turnover.
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery Co. :
Trade Written Re-
Profit. Bonus. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £ £
’O7. .32,325 12,567 76$ p.c. = 12,543 2,347 33,623
Premiums on new shares, £ 299.. 33.5)22
'OB. .36,154 14,175 78$ p.c. = 14,091 3,703 38,197
Premiums on new shales, £473.. 38,670
'O9. .32,536 16,167 86$ p.c. = 15,540 2,04» 37,450
Premiums on new shares, £17,347.. 54,797
’lO. .31,691 15,020 73$ p.c. = 15,679 1,000 54,789
Premiums on new shares, £1,323.. 56,112
’ll. .48,849 18,778 90 p.c. = 19,006 6.505 60,672
Premiums on new shares, £445.. 61,117-
12. .62,871 21,868 100 p.c. = 21,635 7,703 72,782
Premiums on new shares, £27,021.. 99,803
'13..62,684 24,437 90 p.c. = 24,328 9,037 104,685
Premiums on new shares, £488.. 105.173
’l4. .60,611 23,558 88 p.c. = 23,906 9,669 108,651
Premiums on new shares, £396.. 109,047
’15..73,022 26,299 96 p.c. = 26,212 13,067 116,491
Premiums on new shares, £163 116,654
’16..40,493 20,474 75$ p.c. = 20,357 12,420 103,896
Premiums on new shares, £29.. 103,925
’l7. .39,479 19,767 ? p.c. = 20,005 103,632
Some of the figures in the last line are esti-
mates. In the first three quarters of the
year £14,7G7 was paid away as bonus on
trade; and a round £5OOO is added to that,
as a guess, for the last quarter. In the nine
months the dividends amounted to £13,880.
The capital was lately increased to £52,207
by the issue of 101,530 shares at 55., making
the total 210,126. The dividend for the
last quarter is 7d. per share, which, allowing
a pound or two for unpaid instalments,
would, if it were paid oq the lot, be £6125.
Apparently the dividend was at the rate of
about 70 p.c. p.a. for the first nine months
and 47 p.c. p.a. for the last quarter. But the
effective return is much less than that,
because, as the table shows, the premium
on the early issues of shares averaged about
13s. 6d., so that the dividend on the money
actually paid to the co. for shares was only
about 20 p.c. Approximately, in accordance
with the scheme on which the co. was formed
—mostly among a few big hotel-keepers in
Melbourne —an equal amount has been
divided as bonus to purchasers.
But though a big premium has been got
on most of the shares issued up to a few
months ago, the business demanded a lot
more capital than shareholders had provided;
and apparently the bank wasn't prepared to
go on indefinitely. After a deal of trouble the
Treasury was persuaded to sanction the issue
of more shares; and the £25,000-odd thus
raised has been put into premises and plant,
along with much borrowed money. The
following table shoots how much has been
spent: —
1905. 1910. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Capital . .£11,262 £21,399 £27,131 £27,150 £52,507
Debts, over-
draft, etc. 5,907 15,385 15,300 29,241 108,995.
Buildings
and plant 15,598 68,322 103,050 120,327 166,961
Book debts 6,783 24,442 54,543 50,803 74,298
Stocks . . 1,424 8,664 20.848 21,126 39,930
Cash. . . . 317 894 3,378 2,991 5,140
If somebody says that a comparison of the
figures for the last two years doesn’t indicate
that Australia is taking the war very seri-
ously, The Bulletin will not be prepared
to contradict. It isn’t creditable that so
large a sum should be laid out just now
in liquor and the means to manufacture it.
when Heaven knows there were means enough
in existence for producing all that Victoria
could reasonably require.
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne) :
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserve.
1905.. £3427 4$ p.c, = £3322 £l,lBl £332
1906.. 3874 5 „ „ 3691 1,364 552
1907.. 4931 5 „ „ 3691 2,604 630
1908.. 5737 5 „ „ 3691 4,650 602
1909.. 4804 5 „ „ 3691 5,763 598
1910.. 4275 6$ „ „ 4060 5,978 628
1911.. 6332 6 „ „ 4429 7,881 684
1912.. 5960 6 „ „ 4429 9,412 724
1913.. 6499 6 „ „ 4429 11,482 698
1914.. 6409 6$ „ „ 4798 13,093 717
• 1915.. 7440 7” „ „ 5168 15,365 707
Premiums on new shares, £4014 19,379 707
1916.. 9273 7 p.c. = 7000 21,652 711
Written off investments, £2lBB 19,652 523
1917.. 9735 7$ p.c. = 7500 21,887 523
The £2lBB recently written off investments
incltides £2OOO employed to reduce the book
value of premises, which will then stand at
£47,045. The co., which is the only Aus-
tralian concern of the kind that spreads
beyond a single State, now does business in
Vic., N. S. Wales and Queensland ; the new
shares issued a cotrple of years ago were
sent to market in order to give prospective
N. S. Wales clients an interest in the busi-
ness. The co.’s connection smells strongly
of sheep : there’s a Fairbairn and a Chirn-
side on the Board in Melbourne, with David
Elder and a Strachan; and the other two
cities have the same brand of directors. The
paid capital is £lOO.OOO, and there is
another £150,000 callable, £lOO,OOO of it
only to be asked for in case of liquidation —
a feature which gives clients extra security.
For the present, however, clients are not
likely to feel any uncertainty, because the
co. has over £70,000 in hard cash and public
securities, and that is a solid fund -to
guarantee that the co. will do the fair thing.
From the shareholders’ point of view the
position is very comfortable. The business


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse .
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY
fd
SIMPLE DESIGN
As the
are in
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
aind Turbo-Sets up to 10,000 Kilowatts.
Ifgtinpfef
)' Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia:
!|]| Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne. PI
Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-Houston Direct and Alternat-
ing Current Generators for your power and lighting
supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators in opera-
tion in Australia than any other make. The reason
is reliability. Write for further particulars and
quotations to the Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
* . '* * *
A new invention that is attracting marked atten-
tion is an all-steel fence made and designed in
Australia, by the Rawson Moody Manufacturing Co.,
843 Kent Street, Sydney. It is built with powerful
steel posts and droppers, in conjunction with which
is used a powerful non-stretch steel wire, and the
whole makes a dandy fence that is simple, strong
and cheap, as it costs only 15s. to £1 per chain
complete. Catalogue on request.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Win. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — -Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per' cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.:
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. — Advt. [2
* * * *
When considering economy there can be no satis-
factory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe. The
ideal pressure pipe, manufactured in all sizes from
3 inches to 14 feet in diameter. , Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited. Head office: 57 York Street, Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. Factories:
Lane Cove River, N.S.W., Footseray, Vic., and Port
Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd., 56 Pitt Street, -Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.— Advt.
* * * *
There’s nothing of the wild-eat speculation about
Spriggs’ Asbestolite for the economical building pro-
position. It’s an investment which returns sure divi-
dends in easy handling, durability, freedom from
worry re fire and ants. All convenient sizes stocked.
Get Booklet “B.” Spriggs Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
# * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so; write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address; 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For sale, second-hand, in' excellent order, good
reason given for selling: “National” Special Electric
Light Type Double Cylinder Gas Engine, with two
(2) Suction Gas Plants, power 254b.h.p. continuous
at sea level. Also, another engine as above, but
Power 316b.h.p., continuous at sea level, with two
(2) Suction Gas Plants. Apply Arthur Leplastrier
& Co., Circular Quay; or Australian Machinery Co.,
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and .Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
* * * #
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
T 1“ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium income 187,940
Established, 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Bendigo Amalgamated
Goldfields. No Liability.
See Page 34.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
is no doubt growing (figures as to estates
in hand are not, however, available), and
with such investments as the co. now holds
there shouldn’t be much danger of the visible
profits having to be reduced to provide for
depreciation. That really is the only serious
risk the co. has to carry: with careful
management the risk in the trustee, business
itself is very small. And 7 p.c., with every
prospect of a steady growth to 10 p.c., and
with the capital invested in public securities
and selected city property, isn’t the kind of
thing you meet at every corner.
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.), from the time the profits
from the Neath colliery allowed the co. to
pay off the accumulated div. on pref. shares:
Writ- Nomi-
ten nal Re-
Profits.* Dividends. Off. serves.
Mar., ’l3. .£10,137 { ° r^ lo [ '£3177 £3,959
Sept,’l3.. 1b650 j P-c.= 5609 j 3216 5(634
Mar., ’l4. . 11,448 j fH® } 3283 6 > 824
Sept ’14.. 8,093 Pref. = 1250 3290 10,377
Mar.,’ls.. 719 Pref. = 1250 3178 6,668
Sept,’ls.. 12,228 j grdMO p.C.= 4500 J 3922 9>224
Mar., ’16.. 6,565 { gj; 10 mo f 2467 7 ’ 572
Sept,’l6. . 9,164 jgs 10 P^ = }fgjj } 2650 8,336
Mar.,’17.., 7,595 {g^ 10p -r moj 3216 6966
*Subject to remarks hereunder.
This co. is doing the sensible thing nowadays,
and is writing down its profits to cover depre-
ciation. -Coal-mining cos. have themselves
to thank for some of their labor troubles, for
they have persistently over-stated their true
profits. This co., for instance, used to show
the excess of revenue over expenditure as
profit, quite overlooking the fact that all the
time it was using up its capital in the shape
of the coal in its mine. The time came when
its mine was practically worked out, and
all it had to represent its £105,000 was a
good plant and various large holes with a
little coal around some of them. Fortu-
nately; before it was quite too late it bought
another coal area and developed a second
mine, the Neath, at remarkably little ex-
pense; and latterly it lias been opening up
still another property adjoining the Bellbird
and Aberdare. This mine, in which a very
fine seam has been proved, should be putting
out coal by the end of the year.
In the past term the co. has been hit by
the common troubles, and the net profits
have not sufficed to pay the dividend. Still,
the cash position is no worse, notwithstand-
ing the money that has been spent on opening
up the new mine. This gives a bird’s-eye
view of (1) the past term and (2) the past
10 years:—
Mar., ’O7. Sept., ’l6. Mar., ’l7.
Liabilities .. £17,423 £4,398 £4,385
Plant, stock, etc. 22,424 33,086 32,786
Liquid assets .. 644 39,340 40,316
That illustrates what was said up above
about the new policy of the co. —the policy
of saving up revenue to repay capital when
the mines are exhausted. In the past 10
years something like £53,000 has been thus
put by; and meanwhile £lO,OOO net has been
put into plant, etc., oL which only about
£4OOO lias been provided by shareholders. It
is an entirely satisfactory record.
* * * ' *
“Quidam” : When is a start to be made to
consolidate the mining laws of N. S. Wales?
They are merely a collection of archaic
ideas which pertain to the early allu-
vial days, to which has been tacked
multitudinous alterations, additions and
improvements of various governments and
administrations ever since. That they are
quite unsuitable, for the present day
mining industry has been admitted by vari-
ous politicians times out of number. One
of the reproaches to the Labor regime _in
N. S. Wales has been in the fact that during
its existence nothing to improve the condi-
tion of the prospector and mine-developer
was attempted. The backbone of the
mining industry—the legitimate, independ-
ent worker, who does the discovering,
pioneering and developing of the business —
being naturally a roving and disorganised
sort of person, got practically no improved
conditions. This is the more reprehensible
in that the miner has always been a staunch
democrat, and has been a material factor in
the evolution of Labor in politics. Instead
of receiving in return for his sturdy adher-
ence a serviceable, simple and equitable code
of mining laws such as Queensland has had
for many years, he has only had several
trivial and valueless additions to the awful
hotch-potch handed down from the early
days when almost all conditions were differ-
ent. At present, delay, inefficiency and ex-
pense appear to be the watchwords of the
department that has to administer the
weird collection, and the needs and griev-
ances of the legitimate miner are nobody’s
business. Acts and amending acts and
regulations galore, and the general basic
principle that trivial formalities and übiqui-
tous fees should over-ride all broad lines of
equity and effectiveness make our mining
laws a burden and a snare to the hard-work-
ing and often slow-thinking prospector and
developer, and a gracious boon to the subtle
and quick-witted shark.
* * *
The absence of exciting news from the
vicinity of the sensational gold find at Dark
Corner (N.S.W.) for some time has led
many sceptics to conclude that the show has
petered out, blown up, evaporated, or some-
thing of the sort. Such conjectures, how-
ever, are wrong; the show being, for reasons
best known to the finder and the person who
obtained an option over it, very much m the
same condition as when innumerable people
dashed to the locality in motor-cars and other
conveyances and pegged out leases over a
large tract of country. Machinery to the
extent of a lih.p. benzine engine has recently
been installed, to enable the water which
prevents sinking to be wrestled with, and in
due time the holders of adjacent areas will
probably be able to ascertain whether the
rich specimen stuff goes down or whether it
doesn't. Still, the installation of such
machinery at this juncture would appear
a debatable matter, especially when one
has enough specimen stuff to pay tor
better things. It is, however, cheerful to
know that if the show has not so tar been
proved to be better than anticipated, it cer-
tainly has not been proved to be worse.
* * * *
The prospectus of Teddy -Dyason’s ambi-
tious Bendigo Amalgamated Goldfields
scheme has now been thrust on a dazed pub-
lic. Nothing very fresh is in it, except that
the show gets £300,000 of machinery from
the cos. it is absorbing, and 93 working
shafts representing 152,500 ft. of sinking;
and takes over debts of £12,000 contracted
bv the old cos. Dyason’s programme is a
minimum of 40,000 ft. of driving. annunlly,
and the re-organisation or co-ordination ot
the plant, etc. Work is to be com-
menced within the next fortnight. Ot
the' future, let the prospectus have its
say: “The increased output and reduced
costs consequent upon the adoption ot
the improved methods advocated by Mi.
Dyason will, he estimates, result in an
annual profit of not less than £63,000, which
on the proposed issued capital of £3BO,UUU
will equal nearly 17 p.c. per annum, l lns
is by no means a maximum, and as the
organisation becomes more complete con-
tinuous improvement in profits may be ex-
pected.”
John McWhae’s Philippine Dredges, Ltd.,
is gradually shoving its way towards divi-
dends. But it has been a slow job. In the
past two years liabilities have changed in
this way : „ .
Oct., 1915. Oct., 1916.
Debentures issued . . £46,000 £46,000
Bills payable.. :. 5,750 1,060
Sundry creditors . . 5,790 2,096
Due to banks. . .. 22,593 12,578
£80,133 £61,734
Against this current debt of £15,734 and a
few outstanding oddments are: -sundry credi-
tors, £5098; cash, £3504; and stores, £2790.
The co.’s capital is £174,600. Plant consists
of four dredges, two the property of the Para-
cale co., in which Philippine Dredges holds
a big interest. Paracale netted £21,595 last
year, against £14,508 in 1915, and paid divs.
£22,500, against £15,000 in the previous
year. The Philippine co.’s share of the dis-
tribution was £14,561, and as it got a work-
ing profit of £15,479 from scooping gold in
its own leases, the co. was enabled to con-
siderably reduce its debit balance, besides
writing off £7045, commissions and discounts
connected with last year’s debenture float.
The stuff poured through by No. 2 dredge
would make an Adelong man weep with
envy. Only one month was run on under
sd. dirt, and for nine months stuff ranging
from 9d. to 20|d. per cub. yd. went into the
sluice-boxes. No. 3 dredge for half the year
wallowed in over lOd. dirt, making the 3d.
to 9d. handled by the other two plants look
wretched stuff. Records for the 12 months
were: —•
cub. yds. oz. gold.
No. 1 plant .. ~ 224,787 1,428
No. 2 plant . . .. 835,986 11,426
No. 3 plant .. .. 442,945 5,250
No. 4 plant . . . . 524,170 3,126
Dredger Telford reckons that, while Nos. 1
and 4 dredges have a bit to go to get to good
stuff, No. 2 will churn up gold, while No. 3
will soon be bucking into the very best. So
his tip is “many years’ profitable work
ahead.”
“Oof Bird” : Years ago an expert wrote a
book on mines and devoted a chapter to the
choosing of managers. Among other things
he said that a man with a good record,
especially a trained mining-engineer, could
not be secured for the small salary which
ignorant bodies of directors insist on offer-
ing their managers ; and the' natural conse-
quence was that shareholders fell in. After
a good look around the smaller mines in
Westralia I agree with him. Quite a number
of mine managers I have met have no right
whatever to hold such a position. Some are
inexperienced and incapable, and in many
instances owe their appointment solely to
the influence of the controlling market
clique. I do not know one who is a
thoroughly-trained mining-engineer. Mostly
these managers do everything their direc-
tors want, despite the fact that the
man who is strong enough to make him-
self heard beyond the walls of the Board-
room when asked to do anything which does
not meet with his approval, or is not in the
best interests of the co., comes out on top
in the long run.
The Northampton (W.A.) lead and copper
field has been stimulated into life again by
high prices. Since 1845, when the first lot
of ore was sent away, upwards of 8500 tons
of copper and 34.000 tons of lead ore have
been exported from the locality. The
busiest time'was in the ’7o’s and early ’Bo’s,
after which production rapidly decreased on
account of the low price of metals. In 1893
production practically ceased. Latterly the
Fremantle Trading Co. has been spending
money on two of the principal mines on the
field—the Baddera and Narra Tarra —rand
seems to be doing fairly well. A number of
small leaseholders are also reported to be
working at a profit.
“Only fit for a narty of six men, and not
big enough for a c 0.,” is how a candid
director described Yilgarn Consuls at the
recent shareholders’ meeting. But there are
other Westralian shows in a far worse plight,
due to the fact that those in control are
guided not by their interest in the mine,
but by the interest which the dominating
clique has in the share market. Thus share-
holders are kept in tlie dark until collapse is
inevitable. In regard to the Yilgarn
Consuls, The Bulletin pointed out clearly
at the time of flotation that its prospects
were very poor.
* * * *
Fremantle Trading Co. (W.A.;, alias Fre-
mantle Smelters, shows a credit balance of
£3GOS for last financial year. Divs. of 10
p.c. on preference and 3 p.c. on ordinary
shares were paid. The co. derives most of
its revenue from treating Northampton lead
concentrates, and when a Bulletin man
passed through a few weeks ago it had about
£20,000 worth of lead awaiting shipment to
England.
* * * *
The Chamber of Mines delegate told the
recent Kalgoorlie mining conference that
gold-thieving is still rampant in Westralia.
Years ago the whole matter was probed by
a Royal Commission, but up to the present
practically none of its recommendations has
been given legislative effect. The Chamber
appealed to the Minister to take effective
measures to suppress the evil.
-X- * * *
Westralia’s mineral production other than
gold for the first quarter of this year was
worth approximately £61,879. Copper, tin,
coal and lead accounted for nearly the whole
of it. Total production to date is valued
at £4,171,576, of which more than one-half
is represented by copper and tin, with silver-
lead ore a good third and coal close up.
* * * *
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) is developing a
group of low-grade mines at Pindora as a
concentrating proposition, and the experi-
mental work at the mill has given encourag-
ing results. There are eight shafts at Pin-
dora along a lode of 455 ft. At the 300 ft.
level from No. 6 shaft the north drive is in
127 ft., with 42in. of ore worth 4 p.c. in the
face; at No. 8 shaft the drive south is in
126 ft., the face carrying 55in. of ore of 2 p.c.
value. There are 100,000 tons of low-grade
concentrating ore in the reserves, but this
isn’t really a large quantity for a co. with a
capital of £350,000, for at an average extrac-
tion of 3 p.c. per ton there are only 3000
tons of copper available. Still, most of this
co.’s mines are shallow, the deepest level, for
instance, at the MacGregor, is only 320 ft.,
and the Trekelano hasn’t opened its 400 ft.
level yet. The Duchess (1000 ft.) and Hamp-
den (500 ft.) are the two deepest properties.
# # # ♦
Maoriland’s Waihi mine hands out a shil-
ling dividend (£24,795) on .Tune 1, raising
the total payments to £4,929,341. The gross
profit for 1916 was £174,000, out of which
the co. paid £127,000 in quarterly dividends
and taxes; £20,000 was written off for depre-
ciation, and £4OOO for hydro-electric power
work. The April return was £26,533 from
15,220 tons, so the Waihi is becoming low-
grade. The co, has produced a large quan-
tity of silver as well as gold, and in that
respect is quite different from Mount Mor-
gan, which has no silver, although blister
copper generally contains some of the white
metal.
* * W *
Tin at £240 a ton has exceeded all the old
records, and producers able to place re-
fined metal on the market will obviously
benefit the most bv this phenomenal rise.
Old Mount Bischoff (Tas.)j with its up-to-
date crushing, tin-saving and smelting equip-
ment, should do well out of the rise. For the
half-year to December 31 the co. pro-
duced 151 tons of refined tin on its own
account, and 1008 tons of the metal from
purchased concentrates. The price averaged
£175 os. 5d., which is £65 below the recent
quotation. Reserves are 1| million tons,
but tin contents cannot be sworn to.
* # # #
It has frequently been alleged that
Canadian producers of molybdenite receive
a higher price than those in Australia. As
a matter of fact the Canadian Mines Depart-
ment controls the sale of molybdenite, and
the price for the highest-grade ore is Idol,
per lb., or, roughly, £448 per long ton.
This compares very closely with Queens-
land’s valuation -of £4677 for ICQ tons pro-
duced in the first quarter of this year. The
most important molybdenite show in
Canada is near the Ottawa River (Quebec).
So far as it has been proved, it is a shallow
deposit, worked in one instance from an
open cut 50ft. wide .and 115 ft. long. The
output last year was 5500 tons, averaging
about 2 p.c. of molybdenite. Four nits
have been sunk, and the workings expose a
large quantity of low-grade ore in gneissoid
granite. Fair recoveries have been made
with the aid of the flotation process from
1 p.c. ore.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 34.)


Heelings
Est. !BJB.
Co
er?
en
m
a 4k w
mm
SHEERING®'
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
f^SeHais
ai€ ifie Cb/fectr
Qcpi&ssion, vf
CD
O
PAULINE et CIE
Are Showing THE L4TEVT MO)ELS
FOR AUTU IN AN) WINTER.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers, Sydney,
Ci y lOifi"
and Centreway, Collins Street, Melbourne
fjossara
JJicvLuce In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
COGNAC
estb?
1795
BRANDY
OTARD
15 YEARS OLD
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 14, 1917.
My Dear Arini. —
As‘the Maorilanders swung down George-
street.the other afternoon the sun glinted
ou their multiplicity of brass buttons, so I
expect the scissors will be busy later.
They’re a thick set, solid lot, with heavier
limbs than usually go with our lean, tanned
Kangaroo. Also, more serious countenances.
The M.L. Minister, W. D. S. McDonald, was
the sole possessor, on the Town Hall portico,
of an old-fashioned black-silk tile. He looked
like a solemn elder of the kirk. But you
never can tell. The only elder present, so
far as I know, was Q.-G. Ferguson, and he
was in khaki. Besides, his Ex. gave up the
hon. collection-plate business when he left
the Land o’ Kilts. The portico also seated
Archbish. Wright, in the ordinary official
gaiters, etc., topped by a sporting grey felt
hat (to the undoing of a morning j>aper rep.
who refused to believe an ecclesiastic boss
could appear in such millinery). Municipal
lady dignitaries, past and present, viewed
each other under their eyelashes. Acting-
Premier George Fuller, beautifully groomed,
Owen Cox and Russell Blow (local Govern-
ment Agent for M.L. geysers) were also on
the deck.
The Fairguson and his lady sat under
(isn’t that the correct “Bunty” phrase-
ology?) Meenister Harper in St. Stephen's
Kirk on Sabbath morn. The learned Harper
is the principal of St. Andrew’s College,
who’s just back from a glimpse of Europe
and Ivultur on the high seas. He mounted
big John Ferguson’s pulpit as a special act
of grace to mark the election of the new
Scotohbyterian Moderator. Rev. Jock Pat-
terson wears the honiton-lace frills of the
billet since a week ago.
. When everybody’s friends, the Denmans,
lived at Government House, that com-
plete Who’s Who, Dick Nevill, kept
the invitation-list under his pillow. The
Munro Fergusons, with secretaries who
are profoundly innocent of the dam-
aged feelings of our Best People at the
present moment, unconsciously overlook
some of those former constant visitors and
there is some heart-burning. With Kerr-
Pearse military sec. and a stranger, private
sec. Harman, to send round the pastehoards,
local Society’s bosom heaves with apprehen-
sion. But, at any rate, there is no sum-
mons to the long-deceased citizen to give
Admiralty House the pleasure of his pre-
sence, as in the days when a brand-new
Admiral and his equally-raw sec. used to
reign there.
Until this Thursday a sale of work is in
full swing at Ashfield Town Hall. Funds
go to help the gentle Sisters of the Good
Shepherd Home in that hub of rose-gardens.
Lady Helen opened the affair last Saturday.
On Friday evening there’s the concert in
our Town Hall, to help the same cause, with
Kate Rooney as its chief Voice.
From far-off Egyptian sand comes
a line from a R.A.M.C. man. “Here,
it’s as co’d as charity in winter, and hotter
than Hades in summer. No fun of any
kind. Yet two fine Australian women,
Mrs. Chisholm and Mrs. McPhillamy, stay
and run a canteen and rest-camp for Bill-
jim and brother Atkins. They go on to
an uttermost desert, and a camp of soldiers
salutes their grit.”
That stalwart young Scot, J. C. Wright,
has paid the toll on the French Front.
Sculptor and artist, he won a sheaf of prizes
in British art schools before trying his luck
in Australia. For a time his luck was out.
Then recognition came slowly; but the war
fell heavily upon local art. J. C. Wright,
though burning to enlist, couldn’t afford to;
and the claims of a mother and sister in
Scotland drove him to the Department of
Education. To keep the home-scones burn-
ing, he took a job at the Teachers’ Training
College, Blackfriars, and immediately im-
proved its method. Then Adela'de’s School
of Art gave • him a good billet as its
principal, and 12 months’ leave of absence
to go to the war. The handsome Scot was
engaged to Sydney’s R. McAnderson’s eldest
daughter Jean, now (or was) on the other
side with dad and mother.
Over here on a visit, Mr. D’Abaza, Consul-
General for Russia. At a recent midday
snack he asked the Millions Club —and the
man in the street—to trust the Bear.
That useful little animal, the Boy Scout,
has mobilised himself into a perambulating
“See Sydney.” In twos and threes he has been
leading Jap sailors in port round the local
sights, and haranguing the visitors in first-
rate guide-book lingo. I saw two 10-year-old
boys in the Art Gallery the other afternoon,
one holding forth to about 30 Nippon blue-
jackets on the features of the Australian
court, while the other discreetly conducted
the strangers to seats till the exposition
should have finished.
Apropos of the Boy Scout attached to the
intelligence department of the Mosman War
Chest fete the other week, in the days when
Earl Dudley and his pale consort vice-
reigned over this continent, their small boy
wore the trappings of the Mosman Scouts.
Each parade he was escorted by Jeames in
livery to the scene of manoeuvres, and
was a highly-delighted youngster for the
afternoon. He was even more wildly excited
on the occasions his parent was host' to a
hundred or so of Baden Powell’s Own within
the Government House grounds. The same
youngster also distinguished himself by fall-
ing amongst the indignant gold-fish in the
Gov. House fountain, when Gruner was
painting it.
Some of our Y.A.D.’s are having a strenu-
ous time trying to make conversation with
the wounded Frenchmen who were dropped
into Sydney a week or two back. The other
day a soldier who was not supposed to be out
ot bed had disappeared when a couple of
V.A.D.’s arrived to undertake the usual
pillow-shaking. The astonished girls seized
excitedly upon the first Frenchman in sight,
but pulled up breathlessly to recover some
of their lost school French, so they could
ask him if he know where his mate had got
to. Half a dozen attempts having failed,
one of the charmers in desperation poked
out her tongue and performed a corroboree
before the astounded ally which might have
represented anything but a sick Guillaume-
Jacques. The soldier fled. The girls are
still working overtime composing a suitable
explanation for the offended man.
In the National Gallery (Sydney) there
is only one small sample of Edward Officer’s
brush-work. It’s a haystack, in the Baldwin
Spencer loan collection—now coming down
off its hooks. “The Plains of the Darling,”
the one permanent possession the local gal-
lery owns of the Victorian’s way with the
Outback, is at present on loan at Maitland.
A trustee of the Melbourne Art Gallery,
Officer went through the mill in Paris years
ago. First, there were the early springtime
days, when the youthful Australian wore a
velvet coat, pegtop trousers and a hat a la
Rudolf. He doesn’t admit th : s now, but
they were probably a joy in 1895-1990. Re-
turning to his native State in the latter year
he was met with the bleak news that there
was “no more money.” Drought on station
property. Then followed eight lean years,
when the painter battled through the
usual struggling artist experiences. In a
hungry interval he lectured on “Bohemian
Life in Paris.” Then the bad times lifted,-*
and Edward and a brother are able to collect
the proceeds of record wool-clips from •their
N. S. Wales station, Kallara, 650 miles
nearer to the sunset than Sydney.
Here is the man himself. Last year
Officer’s exhibition and sale of pictures in
Melbourne brought £BOO to thp Red Cross.
He hopes to repeat the dose for the N. S.
Wales branch, by the show which opens in
the Royal Art Society’s rooms on May 18.
The generous Victorian has not forgutten
that in one acute crisis of chasing a
crust he won the Wynne prize (N.S.W.),
which gave him £33 to jingle in his then
empty pockets. Not satisfied with his earlier
work Officer returned to Paris when oppor-
tunity offered, and took another three years’
study in the once-lively hub of artists. Now
he hands over £7OO worth of his best efforts
for sale. And the Red Cross hopes to bank
on the lot.
They also serve who only kneel and scrub
(apologies to Milton). Had the bard lived
to-day he might have written an epic on
the Lady of the Bucket. Rose Hall, on
the heights of Darlinghurst, is a convales-
cent home that runs on velvet tyres, with
the help of hon. nurses, hon. charladies, and
hon. laundresses, who tackle huge washing
days just for love of Billjim. More than
Billzac gets the benefit of their chores.
French soldiers, waiting for a boat to take
them on to New Caledonia, have been
squeezed into the airy sleeping-out veran-
dah. Forty-seven (there are usually only
32) soldiers answer the clang of the break-
fast bell, and the misty blue-grey of Francois-
uniform rubs shoulders with our khaki lads.
Here is Matron Fox, the honorary missus
responsible for the exquisite cleanliness and
perfect order of a home which is as fresh as
new china, from the trim wards with the
snowy quilts showing the Red Cross blaz-
oned in the centre to the uttermost corner of
the larder in the basement. Eighty-three
years ago, when Rose Hall was one of the
mansions of Sydney, they built pantries,
sculleries and kitchens as they have appar-
ently forgotten to build them in the modern
stucco villa. Opened as a convalescent home
in October, 1915, the old place was lent by
the Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Co. for the term of the war and for 12
months after. There is no rent. Matron Fox,
who gives all her energy, belongs to a squat-
ting family. Two brothers are station-owners
in Central Queensland.
Splashes Weekly breathed its last (till
the war is over, anyhow) quite recently,
but the Hollander Bros, wouldn’t part »on
that account) with their editress, Mrs.
Fotheringhame, until they handed her a
solid token of goodwill. There was a lunch
at Paris House to garnish the event.
It’s Grace Burrows who means to tackle
the anti-shouting campaign the next few
weeks. Gladys Owen sticks to the amateur
recruiting-sergeant’s job. The shout, as I
told you, is need.ng a thumb in the glass (do
you remember Marryat’s skipper’s wife who
hand-decorated the sailor’s tot of rum in
this way to keep the measure short?! to
protect barely-convalescent soldiers from their
too genial friends.
Do you remember the sporty Mrs. Pelloe,
one of two women who rode from Mildura
to the Sydney Show in 1916? Hubby is now
inspecting bank ledgers in W.A., and she
writes from Perth. “The W. A. Trotting
Association tried the Empty Saddle parade
with great success quite recently. There
was a dash to the lively stables to .get mounts
for those girls who hadn't any gee-gee to
lead. One damsel, nothing daunted by the
shortage, dragged a very willing recruit up
in front of her. Another got five recruits
and a proposal in a few minutes. I was in
the fun, my first soldier-to-be begging for a
bit of the ribbon round my horse’s neck for
luck. Girls promised to send their captives
socks, letters, etc., which is only fair. At
the finish the reinforcements were
drawn up to cheer as we landed our volun-
teers at the recruiting-office.”
Mrs. Mae’urcan, who is commanding offi-
cer of the Wentworth Hotel, is offering fat
prizes (£5 is the first bait) for the best six
pair of the woolly comforts. They will pass
the judges’ eyes (Mrs. Harry Finn and Miss
Knox have the last word) on May 30. After
that, tea and bridge. Proceeds go to the
War Chest.
The Phil. Society gave the “Damnation of
Faust” (Phil Newbury in the tenor rdle)
to a big audience in the Town Hall. Con-
ductor Joe Bradley waved his hands (one
thinks of Moses blessing his fiock) over a
dazzling white parterre of feminine chorus.
The males have dwindled since the war to a
meek background with its hair mostly thin
on top. Andrew Black was the Mephisto-
pheles, with W. T. Colyer as a genteel
edition of the roystering Brander. Berlioz’s
“Faust” is like a paddock in early spring—
some of it is dull sod, but most of it is
ablaze with gold and purple patches.
The unofficial Gallery Permanent First-
nighters take themselves more seriously than
their squeals of joy. when a new play
appears, would lead the long-suffering public
to believe possible. The other afternoon they
fed some of their favorites, Lizette Parkes,
Vera Pearce, Ethel Cadman, Minnie Love
and Nancye Stewart on buns and tea.
Melba, by the way, flung a stern glance
upwards, when the P.F.N.’s shouts ol'
glee came near breaking-up the sobs of
Miriam (Kathlene MacDonell) ou the first
night of the Outcast.
From “Rosna” (London) -
The Apple Island Agent-General, Jolyi McCall,
new president of the London A.N.A., is one of the
best-liked officials in Anglo-Australia, and doesn’t
share that common official delusion that if’ you give
your name to a committee you’ve given enough. His
time and services are always available for any matter
touching Australia, and if you want to see him
you don’t find him hedged in by 49 dragons. Having
a firm hand and a sense of humor he ought to be a
useful god-parent to the infant A.N.A.
George and Mary Hex have Col. Anzac, Major
Kiwi, Capt. Mapleleaf and Lieut. Springbok to tea
every Saturday at their little place on the Mall. A
few high commissioners are allowed to come along
too, but with the guests from hospital Royalty
hobnobs as though it' wouldn’t know' a crown if it
saw one.
Stella Miles Franklin, of Brilliant Career fame,
is in London helping to save the Empire. The witty
and bright-eyed Australian came from the U.S. in
the early days of the scrap and has been war-jobbing
ever since. She went to see the’camp where they
plant out delicate babies for the fresh-air cure.
“Well, what do you think of it?” they asked her.
“Worse than the Belgian atrocities,” said Stella
Miles, with a shiver. Nevertheless she became
absorbed in the work and -stayed on helping until
ill-health made her pack up and go. Her latest
ambition is to join the woman’s army in France,
but her health will probably be against her.
Esther Fairbairn had half Anglo-Australia to see
her married at Holy Trinity, Brompton, the other
day. She wore a. golden gown of brocade edged with
white fur, a most scrumptious garment. Her choice,
Lieut.-Col. Leonard Wheatley, who hunts with the
Argyle and Sutherland Highlanders, wore a D. 8.0.
ou khaki. The bride’s captain-brother gave her away.
Among Billjim’s faithful visitors in hospital,
Hampstead way, is Mrs. Mitchell. Formerly a Dutton,
one of the Anlaby (S.A.) clan. She used to stay
at Anlaby in the long-ago days when a father of
the present Justice Buchanan managed the run, but
left Australia as a youngster of 14 and has never
been back.
Dr. Ainslie Clowes, son of medico Clowes, of
Brisbane, and now a captain in the A.A.M.C., had
a matrimonial appointment at St. Andrew’s, West-
minster, on St. Pat’s Day. Bride was Miss Maime
Clowes, whose pater is something high up on the
pinnacles of the army. Another military knotting
was that of Major Hector Clayton, son of the J. H.
Claytons, of Sydney, to Mis 3 Phyllis Midwood, a
damsel who dwells in Oakley Hall. There is also
to be a job for a marriage-smith shortly to clamp
up Enid Burton, daughter of Canon Burton, one
time of Maoriland, and Capt. Torr, D. 5.0., M.C.,
who is also a son of a cleric.
One of the late (S.A.) Premier Tom Price’s boys
is among our wounded warriors at Boulogne. The
youngster is a lieutenant, and has a bad but not
dangerous leg wound to keep him out of the trenches
for a bit.
The three Cherniavsky brothers. Leo, Jan
and Mischel, will toss their amaranthine
curls in Sydney during June. Mike,
the youngest, has secured for life Mary
Rogers, a daughter of the millionaire sugar
king, of Vancouver. The heiress comes to
Australia with her musician.
Emerald-green ruches wind round some of
the. black velvet winter hats. They’re a
vivid color note, and reminiscent of the
trimming worn by the young ladies who play
croquet in Trollope’s old yarns.
What about Violet Day before the lovely
blooms pass_their meridian? The Soldiers’
Club wants to revive the 1915 flower-day,
which gave them a lucky start. Otherwise,
’ware wolf.
The Red Cross gets the proceeds of a new
song by Sybil Heydon—wife of our Arbi-
tration trudge. Music by May Fenner;
publishers, baling’s; title, “Give! Give!”
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
%S LTD
JEWELLERS.
A PRESENT FOR A MAN.
A FOLDING BANK-NOTE CASE.
i
mmfm
ss
Strongly marie in pigskin leather.
Silk lined. To hold at least ten
Australian hank notes.
THE NOTES DO NOT REQUIRE TO BE FOLDED,
AND CAN BE EASILY INSERTED OR REMOVED.
THE MOST SERVICEABLE AND CONVENIENT BANK NOTE CASE MADE.
FORWARDED ON APPROVAL IF DESIRED.
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
116118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON,
The 218 FOLDING ENSIGN
Does Wonderful Work.
m
a
The British-made Folding Ensign Camera,
No. 2%8, is a grand example of efficiency and
low price. It takes photos that are in many
cases equal to many taken by much more expen-
sive cameras.
It is of the compact folding type, compact and
handy, and has a seasoned wood body, covered
Morocco Leatherette, Leather Bellows, Rever-
sible View Finder, Focussing Scale, Infinity
Catch, Achromatic Meniscus Lens and Ensign-
Junior Shutter, giving Time, Bulb and Instan-
taneous Exposures.
For use with Roll Films, 2-1 x 31 in., which can
be loaded and unloaded in daylight. Price, 27/6.
The same camera can also be supplied in larger
sizes, taking films 2§ x 41 in., at 37/6
Ditto, taking films 31 x 41 in., at 50/-
Also in Postcard size, 31 x 51 in., at. ... 55/-
Call and let us show you how easy these are to use; if you live out of
town, send for our illustrated catalogue.
When buying films always ask for the BRITISH-MADE ENSIGN
FILMS-—they are made in sizes to suit all kinds of Film Cameras.
Send Your Residues and Assays
to HARRINGTONS’. =
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal Workers can depend
on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (3 lines).
lIP
• Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St. 127 Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories and Laboratories, 59 George St. North, Sydney.
lii
Price
£3O
Vocation
Style G
The
The Phonograph Supreme —
in Tone, in a wonderful
new privilege
gfd
L,L the colorful tones of the human
voice, the varied notes of every
instrument of the full orchestra
are reflected faithfully made to
live anew by this supreme phono-
graph. Such clarity, sweetness
and perfect purity of tone never
have been possible before with
any instrument of the phonograph type. And this
wonderful, natural tone, you may vary and shade,
make to express your own music feeling through
the revolutionary Vocalion expression control—the
Graduola.
Your slightest pressure upon the Graduola
finds instant answer in the music. The melody
ebbs and flows as you will. Its delicate shadings
are the picture of your thoughts.
There is but one way to know and fully realise
the supremacy of the Vocalion—you must hear it—
hear the remarkable perfection of its tone. Then
you must take the Graduola and discover the
fascination of making music—of building new and
refreshing tonal beauty with the skill of the greatest
musicians as your guide. Scores of people every
day are making this personal test of the Vocalion.
We invite you to come in too, and enjoy the
intensified music pleasures this great new instru-
ment affords.
Monthly Payments as low as 25/-
All models of the Acolian-Vocalion may be
purchased on the most liberal terms. Vocalion
prices are £l2 10s. to £75.
ePianolafSompantL
Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Beard Watsons)
Send Us This Coupon
with your name and address, and we will mail an inter-
esting descriptive Catalog, showing the easy terms of
payment that will place a Vocalion in your home with-
out delay.
Please send me Catalog 13 describing the Vocalion as
advertised in Bulletin
Name
Address


FALLING HAIR CAUSED BY
DANDRUFF.
HOW TO DESTROY THE DANDRUFF
GERM AND SAVE YOUR HAIR.
Thin, brittle, colorless and scraggy hair
is mute evidence of a neglected scalp; of
dandruff, that awful*, scourge. There is
nothing so destructive to the hair as dan-
druff. It robs the hair of its lustre, its
strength and its very life, eventually produc-
ing a feverishness and itching of the scalp,
which if not remedied causes the hair roots
to shrink, loosen and die —then the hair
falls out fast. For the purpose of destroying
the dandruff germ you should get your
chemist to prepare a lotion consisting of
3 ounces Bay Rum, 1 ounce Lavona de Com-
posee and i-dram Menthol Crystals. Rub
this thoroughly into the scalp with the
fingertips. It will kill the dandruff germ,
and soon your hair will take on that life,
lustre and luxuriance which is so beautiful.
It will become wavy and fluffy, and
have the appearance of abundance and
incomparable gloss and softness; but what
will please you most will be after just a few
weeks’ use, when you will actually see a lot
of fine downy hair —new hair—growing over
the scalp.— Advt.
r # 11 r
ESTABLISHED
■O'
UR99. CALF E.S. RIDING BOOTS, single soles,
standard screwed (as illustration), suitable for
Station or Country wear.
PpCE 13/6
Also m Tan 16/6
URIOO. tan WILLOW CALF RIDING or WALK-
ING COSSACKS, leather-lined throughout, double-
welted soles (as illustration).
PRICE 35/.
FARM COSSACKS, in stout Black Mineral Kip, standard
screwed soles, comfortable fitting and durable.
PRICE 14/6
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE.
Si
I'S
feE
UR99
UR too
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOBIT OF
17 6 Will
£4 7 6
£8 15 O
£43 15 O
£B7 10 O
£875 O O
purchase a Cert
ficate for
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Ranks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia ?4fA March, 1917
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, May 14, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie. —
The funeral ceremonies of the late Arch-
bishop Carr occupied the whole of Saturday,
and St. Patrick’s was packed all day, hun-
dreds standing for hours. The service began
with the tolling of the bell and the soft
playing of the Dead March. High digni-
taries in magnificent robes -went up the steps
of the altar; and hundreds of white-surpliced
priests took seats which surrounded the
coffin of the dead prelate. Altar boys car-
ried candles to the priests and the choir,
until hundreds of tapers were shining like
stars in the gloom. The choir of male voices
was magnificent. A snow-white mitre was
placed upon the altar —that was for the
new Archbishop. The jewelled mitre of the
dead Archbishop rested with his stole upon
his coffin.
The deacons then prepared to robe Dr.
Mannix in his new vestments. Surrounded
by chiefs in cardinal and purple robes and
white linen, the deacons and sub-deacons
enclothed themselves in magnificent stoles of
black velvet with white bands. The Master
of Ceremonies was enveloped in black
with a wonderful cape of lace. They and
the scarlet-draped incense-bearers knelt in
a circle before the altar and handed the
vestments to the new chief. First a cape
of snowy linen, crossed in front and tied at
the back; then a robe of white, without
sleeves, and, above that, an all-enveloping
garment of white, Avith sleeves to the wrist.
A ribbon of an Order was placed about his
neck, and a black-velvet gown was tied at
each shoulder. Over this was put still another
imposing black-velvet robe, fastened at
the shoulders by attendant deacons. Over
this again was placed the third magnificent
black-velvet robe, banded with Avliite. A
great cross was embroidered on the back, and
in the centre of the cross a glittering silver
sun. The white mitre was then placed
upon his head. With his hands clasped he
walked toward the congregation and then
to the steps of the altar, where he made an
offering of incense. The red-robed Apos-
tolic Delegate mounted the pulpit and spoke.
His vestments fairly blazed against the
black drapings of the pulpit, and a great
ruby glowed in the centre of his big gold
cross. Meanwhile Archbishop Mannix sat
quietly in his heavy vestments, with his
narrow Avhite face showing marks of his long
vigil and fast. His black eyes looked large
and sombre under his white head-dress.
The bishops were then invested with white
mitres and surrounded the coffin with the
priests. Impressive music Avas played and
chanted while candles and incense were
burnt.
In the afternoon' the body Avas carried
through the streets of Melbourne, and late
in the evening the final burial service Avas
read before the altar of the Sacred Heart
Chapel, in a tomb chiselled out of the con-
crete. A ribbon of black tiles is to mark
the place when the mosaic is replaced. This
takes the place of a suggested black cross
by the dying decree of Archbishop Carr.
He said it would be impious to place a cross
Avhere it would be trampled upon. The
weary, home-going crowds saw the great
windows softly lighted and heard the sound
of the organ playing solemnly as the dead
man was left to his rest.
Aubrey and Geoffrey Officer, reported as
‘‘missing,” are sons of the late squatter
Charles Officer by his second Avife. With
tAvo other brothers the lost lads were looking
after the family ostrich-farm at Kerang
when the war began. A third brother got
into khaki some months ago. About a dozen
of the Officer clan haA r e seen active service.
The W. L. Baillieu dame and-her husband
are naturally delighted about second son
Harry winning, the Military Cross. The
boy, a fine specimen of Australian youth,
eulisted in England at the beginning of the
war and got a commission in the 1 loyal
Artillery.
Harry Ross Soden has cabled home to his
mother that he is quite Avell and hearty. lie
was on the torpedoed Ballarat.
Iloy Bridges, a young soldier-journalist,
formerly on the Age, has built a war book
called “The Immortal DaAvn.” He writes of
the Landing at first hand, for he was one
of the first Melbourne recruits.
Louis Smith (elder son of the late L.L.),
who met a hero’s death in France, left a
sad little widoAV in Melbourne, and a three-
months-old son, to whom his soldier daddy
Avill only be an inspiring tradition.
The Sturt-street Kitchen, which was so
A'ery busy in early recruiting days, is going
to shut down, as the Y.M.C.A. and other
adjacent places completely fill the bill —or
Billjim—now that so many of the boys are
in a different locality. The kitchen has a
surplus of some £5OO or £6OO, and George
Fairbairn is asking permission to send the
money to the hard-up Anzac Buffet in Lon-
don. Alison Fairbairn Balmain has been
writing out about its hard-upness, likewise
Mrs. Alfred Deakin, aud appeals have come
from the Buffet itself. There was a meeting
in the Fairbairn house on Thursday, and
an extra £lOOO was promised by those in
the room. Mrs. Boss Soden also offered to
place her home at the disposal of a bridge
party.
The crews that battled for the “Head of
the River” turned up at “So Long Letty”
on Saturday evening. The Geelong Gram-
mar boys, who were the winners, sat in the
stalls in their pale-blue coats. Dorothy
Brunton, Marie Eaton, the men principals
and most of the chorus sported pale-blue
rosettes, armbands or garters; and flappers
with pale-blue hair-ribbons and proud
mothers with bits of ribbon pinned to their
dresses were scattered about the stalls and
circle. In the auditorium and on the stage
were also many who sported the dark blue
and green of the Geelong'College, which was
second in the race, and the purple and gold
of Wesley, which finished third. Through-
out the first act the performance was held
up at intervals by bursts of schoolboy cheer-
ing, signifying the arrival of a blush-
ful “cobber,” and generally a self-
possessed flapper. The boys also amused
themselves by throwing paper streamers on
to the stage and letting loose clusters of bal-
loons, representing their colors. Hugh Ward
beamed on everybody from the back of the
circle, Mrs. Tallis, with her two young sons,
was in the managerial pen, and Mrs; “Doc”
Yelland, with three girl chicks, was in the
opposite box. Next door was Archibald
Strong, with three khaki-clad friends, one of
whom was Reg Franklin, headmaster of
Melbourne Grammar, who is now in camp.
The ’Varsity is joyfully welcoming Pro-
fessor Osborne. The genial man has been
dodging submarines for the last eight months
in various seas while flitting round the
Allies’ slices of the world.
Mrs. Alfred Deakin, recently returned
from London, talked in the Town Hall last
week on baby clinics, and described the one
at Stepney and its school for mothers as one
of the sights of London. Mothers are there
given practical lessons in the preparation of
food for babies, in washing and dressing,
baby’s dressmaking, and taught how to
recognise symptoms of ill-health. Quite 2000
babies are brought to the Clinic every week
to be weighed and searched for scratches and
symptoms, a doctor being kept at hand to
tinker up any that need repairing. The lady
lecturer also described interestingly the care
of.child life in America.
Margaret Grosvenor, who was married to
Peyton Jones in England the other day, made
many friends when she sheltered for a year
under the wing of the vice-regal Talbots, her
uncle and aunt. Melbourne remembers her
as a handsome girl built on generous lines
with a happy nature which refused to be
depressed by a limited chiffon allowance.
Bridegroom Peyton Jones is an Englishman,
although his mother happened to be sister
to sporting Dick Casey and the Ken Brodribb
widow.
Mrs. Sep Miller’s young sister, Marjorie
Henderson, and a woman friend, are going to
try and run a farm, in the heart of the
mountains, near Woodend. A fortnight ago
at 6 a.m. they made a start.
Mrs. Ned Teague, once Violet Reid, re-
cently landed with a small son on an extended
visit to mother and sister Fairlie. Naval
brother Roger is busy at sea these days.
The smile of Hughes has been illuminating
the whole city since the votes were counted,
though during the anxious speech-making
period it really seemed as if he intended to
look as solemn as a wooden Indian for the
rest of his days. Damocles would have felt
as Hughes does now if someone had taken
down the hanging sword and substituted a
harmless penny balloon.
W. I>. S. MacDonald, who is here purchas-
ing wheat on behalf of the Imperial Supply
Commission, found time to eat a lunch with
Premier Peacock on Friday. Hagelthorn,
Minister of Agriculture, and his wife, the
Manson couple, and Mrs. MacDonald also
toyed with the cutlery.
There was a great dance at All Saints’
Hall last week. Many of the men were of
artillery bound for the Front.- There
were not quite enough of them to go round,
but the girls took turns at playing wall-
flower. Helen Buckland and Marjorie
Symes arranged the hop, and the Patriotic
Fund got the benefit.
Adelaide’s tablets :
Drenching rain on Saturday drove the Ministering
Children’s League fair in aid of orphanages from Mrs.
Legoe’s garden at Hyde Park into her house. How-
ever, the downpour had no appreciable effect either
on the attendance or its buying proclivities. Mr.
Pope, who has always kept a kindly eye on the
work of the Children’s League, made the official
declaration that the sale was well and truly open.
The Harry Gilberts have returned from honey-
mooning in the Eastern States and are settling down
in the T. G. Wilsons’ house in North Adelaide.
News has come through that the Military Medal
was awarded to the late Lieut. Denis Jones for •
conspicuous bravery in the field in September, 1916,
only a very short time before he was killed. Another
S. Australian to win distinction is Major Noel
Loutit, once of the 10th and now of the 50th Bat-
talion, who has got his D.S.O. Also, Major Greenway,
who was married in January last to Miss Constance
Phillipps, of our village, has five times been men-
tioned in dispatches.
Senator Pearce left the Indarra here and went on
by train to Melbourne next day, filling in part of
the interval by speaking at a soldiers’ relatives’
rally in the Town Hall. This rally was organised
in the interests of his namesake; Lieut. Pearce, an
aspiring politician. It was mostly a feminine gather-
ing, with- a woman J.P. (Mrs. Wallington) in the
chair and Mrs. Crawford Vaughan as one of the
speakers.
Mrs. Andrew Johnston, whose son was making good
progress from the wounds he received in France, has
now been notified that he died from pneumonia on
May 5. Flight-Lieut. H. Hayward, son of Lieut.-Col.
Hayward, has been severely wounded in. France, but
is progressing favorably; and Lieut. Niel Campbell
has been wounded in the right arm. Ilis brother,
Gordon, who was wounded about a month ago, is
convalescent.
Miss Kate Gardner returned to her adopted Mel-
bourne at tlie beginning of the week after a very
brief visit to Adelaide. She was the guest of the
Gavin Gardners at St. Peter’s for the few days that
she was here.
The R. L. Davidsons have left here for London,
via America. At least, he is for London and she for
America, till Fate and German submarines and the
powers-that-be will allow her to complete her journey.
The holiday brought us no excitement beyond the
first day of the S.A.J.C.’s Cup Meeting at Morpliett-
ville, where amongst the big crowd recruiting-ser-
geants might have done good business.
Lewis Cohen, who still holds the record for the
extent and lavishness of his entertainments when
Mayor, is back temporarily in office as loeum-tenens
for Mayor Isaacs, who has gone holiday-making to
Sydney with his wife.
Cheerful news comes from the Rosmans in London,
where the critics have been more ’than usually kind
to Mrs. Rosman’s verses, and where Miss Alice- Ros-
man is dividing her time between book-writing and
contributing to the British-Aurtrauasiax. Mrs.
Fawkner, once of Melbourne Ann us, is also on the
B.A.
The Presbyterian Conference has been -exercising
itself about our Sabbath-breaking propensities, week-
end cables and Sunday trains and trams being in-
cluded as part of our sins. A few moderates pro-
tested against the inclusion of cables and trams in
the general condemnation-, but the extremists won
the wrangle., It’s a wonder they didn’t include boil-
ing the kettle and washing-up the cups.
Mrs. T. Westbrook, of Hobart, had her
77th birthday lately, and celebrated it by
singing in a local church choir in company
with her. daughter, grand-daughter and great-
grandson. The old lady has been a chorister
tor over 60 years, and seldom misses a prac-
tice or a service.
The French Red Cross engineered a Gift
Afternoon of notable proportions at the
Grand Hotel on Tuesday afternoon, to
help stock the shop that the Patriotic
League intends to run for a week in
Collins-street in aid of the British Red
Cross. The League had a great day last
year for the French Red Cross, and this
was a graceful return. The management of
the Grand gave the use of the big supper
room and the. lounges, and threw in after-
noon tea. Visitors dropped gifts into huge
laundry baskets, which were wheeled away
by bellboys,, emptied, and trundled back for
more. The big crowd surged and jostled
in the corridors and filled the supper-room.
Red-white-and-bluc lights glowed dimly
among autumn leaves in the afternoon fog.
Boffard arranged a musical programme and
sang himself. Mrs. Evelyn Campbell, a
good-looking young matron', also sang, and
Charlotte Hemming recited. Agnes Copies
made herself useful at the piano.
The Hennessy held quite a reception, and
Mrs. Crevelli worked with her usual energy.
The new French Consul. Fliche, a tall,
handsome young man with coal-black eyes,
was there without his wife —a, delicate little
lady who can’t fuss at these functions. Her
Ex. came for a little while, and the Madden
dame a’so looked in.
The Playhouse had a big audience on
Friday night for the entertainment pro-
vided by . the French Croix Rouge in aid of
the British Red Cross. Governor Stanley
and his lady came along and brought the
whole family, with the exception of the latest
baby. The small tribe sat in a row flanked
by Genthelp Conant, the John Maddens and
the Hennessy pair. The genial Hennessy
made frequent descents upon the baskets
of vended sweets and presented huge boxes
of chocolates to the children. The Bowes
Kelly family were there, also Delprat, of
Broken Hill, and his daughter. French-Consul
Fliche was in the front trenches, like Lauers,
of Belgium. A very large, overdressed
matron kept standing up and gazing round
the house. She wore three rows of agate
beads, about the size of millstones, round
her neck. (You will know her next time
you see her.)
A little girl-pupil of Jennie Brenan danced,
and the Stanley children were wildly inter-
ested. They also leap under Brenan tuition.
The Mayor and Mayoress of Caulfield are
beating the big drum for a roll-up to a
Grand Novelty and Poster Night ,n the Caul-
held Town Hall on Saturday. There will
be dancing, card tournaments and music, and
you may wear evening dress like a sober
citizen, or fancy rags and chance winning
rt prize. The spoil goes to help the
Y.M.ChA. and Red Cross,
Gladys Frazer, the moon-faced beauty of
the three Frazer girls, has just altared her
name to Mrs. Charles Young, at Colombo.
The engagement was brief. They met in
Sydney just before Christmas, and after his,
departure to work amongst the tea, Gladys
gathered the- trousseau. Her husband isn’t
a planter himself, but is deep in the trade.
Melba got a slirieky welcome home from
the white-frocked girls of her Conservatorium
singing class. The dear young things nearly
swooned with rapture, and in return their
idol tearfully urged them to try and make
the world happy. Then she introduced
Charlie' Chaplin, and became eloquent on how
much he had done to avert melancholy!
Melba is now hard at work with Stella
Power. She wrote from America to her
friend George Allan, and directed: “Do not
exploit her until I come home; there is a
great future ahead of the girl and I expect
to see her make a hit in this country some
of these days.”
Governor Stanley and his little lady were
alone in a box at “Penelope” on Wednesday.
Her Ex. was heavily furred, and the house
was full of other pelts torn from the. animals
of the wild that are being exterminated.
The smart East Melbourne Collis girls
stalled with country sister Airs. Mackintyre,
and the Fenner girl sat wrapped to the
ears, with two well-rugged friends. There
were no sheepskin coats in the house ; but, of
course, we have to economise these days.
Cecil Bradley got two chances during the
recent fogs and rains. First, Maud Fane
went off with a cold, and Cecil ran on as
understudy. When Maud crept back into
her place, Dorothy Brunton retired to a
private hospital for a week, and Cecil
stepped into her silver tinsel slippers.
Dot Brunton is not going to seek her
fortune in America after all. The J.C.W.
chiefs have promised to cast her in a London
production of “High Jinks.” Connie Ediss
also is going back to the dear old city. What
a welcome they’d get if they filled their
portmanteaux with potatoes!
Grace Palotta has grown a little weary
of selling hats, and will shortly return to the
footlights on the Tivoli circuit.
Ada Reeve’s stage hair is a lovely auburn,
with the curls stiffened down to the skull,
according to the severe fashionable ideal.
Her dress is a powder-blue silk that can
stand up on its hem and is puffed up into
panniers over the hips with wreaths of pink
October or even November roses. The under-
petticoat is a real Nell Gwynne extravagance
of silver lace and ivory. The occupier has
a special tapestried drawing-room on stage,
with teak furniture. She still limps a little
in her silver-tissue slippers.
Toots and Lorna Pounds, the clever Aus-
tralian children who used to be hired and
petted by Melbourne instigators of At
Homes, are doing well in a London revue
at the Alhambra.
Felice Lyne, the soprano who took her
high G’s in Australia with the Quinlan
crowd, has been doing a singing turn at’one
of the big London vaudeville houses. When
here she put up' at Menzies, and the green
parrot belonging to the Youngs across the
street used to take free lessons .from his
perch among the blue lobelia window boxes
every morning. In his hilarious moments he
still screams bits of grand opera.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


DEWAR’S
THE THREE GREAT TESTS
OF GOOD WHISKY ARE
QUALITY—TASTE—AGE
Quality is the Essence of Goodness and Fine
Blending. It conveys that indefinable distinc-
tion, which makes a man a prince among his
fellows, and Dewar’s a king among Whiskies.
Excellence in Distillation is a Science; Pre-
eminence in Blending an Art. Dewar’s is a
Mingling of Choice Spirits. Quality stands for
Character, and Dewar’s for the ideal com-
bination of both.
Taste. The Taste of Dewar’s is the Golden
Key which unlocks all the pleasant avenues
of the memory. In Dewar’s Whisky there is
something creamy and yet not cloying;
something velvety and yet not heating;
something rich and yet not obtrusive ; some-
thing crisp and yet not crude Strong and yet
gentle, Dewar’s is the Paladin of Whiskies.
Age
is the Crowning Stage in a series of fer-
mentations. Fermentation means Life. Age
dissipates its roughness, rounds off its edges,
and refines its character, leaving nothing
behind but the Rarest Elixir of Life. Dewar’s
is the Veteran of Stimulants.. It is ripe for
Promotion to your Palate.


Behold the face of Bristly
Ben,
lie hasn’t shaved since douce-
knows-when,
If he hut knew
The thing to do!
It isn’t WORK to use a
PENN.
7/6 PENN SAFETY 7/6
* with 5 Sheffield That Shave «-<«—
is the most satisfactory Shaving Outfit obtainable, each
Razor being Triple Silver-plated. Holder set at correct
angle equipped with smooth guard—and complete with
five blades which are tempered exactly alike. Blades are
forged, tested and hand-finished—made to shave.
B e believe more smooth and satisfactory shaves are obtain-
able from Tenn Razors than from any other Razor made,
and we guarantee you entire
SHA VING SA TISFACTION,
or we will refund your money—not part of it, hut all of
it—so you can't lose anyway, and you can get Shaving
Satisfaction.
Buy one from your dealer to-day or, if he cannot supply
if, send 11s the money, and we will send you one by return.
Price 7/6, Post Free.
A. C. PENN, Inc.,
420 George
SYDNEY.
A Signal Sueecss
King George IV
M WII§H
Hie TOP-NOTCH "Scotch,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
"Werrimee” : Brumbies were once fashion-
able as hacks in country towns that were contiguous
to brumby haunts. There were good riders in town
as well as outside, and once in a while one of them
managed to bring home a prize. He might have
bought a reliable hack for less than he spent in
time, not to mention the risk he took of breaking
his neck in the capture of the wild horse; but there
was a distinction in riding about town on a genuine
brumby. Anybody could canter up and down the
street on an ordinary nag, but only one in a hundred
had the unique privilege of exercising on a wild
mustang. He attracted notice wherever he went.
The horse made him temporarily famous. • There
wasn’t a quadruped within 50 miles of Bill Brooker’s
brumby or Tom Faraway’s outlaw mare so well
known.
THE DEPLORABLE DISHONESTY
OF THE AVERAGE BLOKE.'
COUNSEL: “Do' you still say you were unaided in this crime?"
BILL THE BANK-BREAKER: “Yus. Yer see I didn't know anyone honest enough to trust.”
"Lantana'': Is Binglii losing his bush in-
stinct or craft? One of him, a grandfather of his
tribe, recently lost his way up at Maclean, Clarence
River (X.S.VV.), and when found he had been
describing’ circles for a fortnight, and was nearly
dead. He was a pretty ancient specimen, within
cooee of the century, old enough probably to have
forgotten whatever bush lore he had ever known or
inherited. That he was still alive speaks much for
his constitution.
‘‘Gullabong” : The Australian black has a
provident system for keeping the larder supplied
with cluck, which was described to me by an old
blackfellow on the Boorowa liiver, a tributary of
the Lachlan. In the breeding season, when the
young birds are coming on, the alios. go out in
parties, following the creeks until they come upon
some old birds covering their young. As the hunters
approach, the elders, thinking to detract attention
from the chicks, flutter away as if with a broken
wing; but Binghi is too wily to be fooled by such
a device. He captures the youngsters, bites through
the first joint of one of the wings, and puts them
back in the creek, where 1 1 1 ey feed and grow up
until they are large enough to make a decent dish.
M hen the time is ripe, there is no difficulty about
collecting the ingredients, as they are unable to fly.
This has probable given rise to the misconception
that exists that file blacks catch the birds by diving
into the water and coining up under them. Wild
duck are exceedingly timid, and alive to the least,
noise, and no blackfellow, however slick, could get
anywhere near them if they were able to fly.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The vocabulary of willy wag-
tail, or black-and-white fantail (jirri jirri and
pulcherry of the blacks), is about the best known
of any bird in the bush, for he loves to perch on
the woodheap, on stumps in cleared spaces and on
garden railings, twisting and turning all the time,
while chirping, “Sweet, pretty creature!” like a
conceited little dandy. At times he drops this
egotism and becomes poetical, calling cheerily,
“Kitty Fisher, get your pitcher.” A favorite perch
of his is on the back of a cow. Strawberry takes
no active notice of him as he hops along from her
tail to her head, sometimes pirouetting on her horns
and darting at the flies that settle on her. Occasion-
ally lie is seen on the back of a sheep, pulling out
little tufts of wool to line his nest, which is neatly
built of grass, well hound with spiders’ webs and
placed in a thick bush. He dances his little jigs
also on horses, even when they are being driven in
the shafts of a cart. The seissors-grinder, or rest-
less flycatcher, closely resembles willy wagtail in
appearance; the main difference being that willy
has a black throat, whereas the whole of the
grinder’s undersurface is.white.
“Te Wbare’': The diamond snake usually
breeds in hollow logs or under piles of brushwood,
etc., but 1 have found it nesting in the hollow of a
dead tree, about 12ft. up. The lady had carried
some dry grass up and lined her chamber with it.
Unfortunately for herself she left part of her coils
sticking out of the hole, which resulted in her
destruction. The body contained a string of soft-
shelled eggs about the size of those of a dove, but
more elongated. Another egg-laying serpent, the
brown snake, also breeds occasionally in tree hollows,
but more often deposits its eggs under dead leaves or
debris on the ground. Having done so, this amiable
reptile goes about its business; the diamond snake,
on the other hand, coils affectionately about its
treasures and assists in their incubation.
WRONG ADDRESS.
HIS REVERECE: “I haven't noticed Dinny for a couple of Sundays, Mrs. Lannigan
How's that?"
MRS. L. ( sobbing ): "Well. Father, he went for a soldier a couple of weeks ago in"
HIS REV : “ Good hoy!”
MRS. L. : "It’s not that, your riririuce. lie went for a soldier in Cody’s bar, and he's
Still in the hospital.”
“H.V.E.”: Except the deadly red-back
there is no other Australian spider known to be
dangerous; at any rate that is the general opinion of
spiderologists. Red-back is often confused with a
larger plum-colored variety, having round spots of
bright vermillion. It is commonly found under
stones and pieces of bark. The red-backed devil,
on the other hand, is about the size of a pea and
has a band of red above the thorax. It. is usually
lurking in outhouses, beneath scraps of galvanised
iron and tin, and in jam tins, discarded billies,
kettles, etc., left lying about, but is not aggressive.
Writer unwittingly carried one about for some time
on a scrap of galvanised iron and it made no attempt
to bite. Symptoms of persons bitten somewhat
resemble those resulting from deadly snake-bite,
but are less intense. Medical journals record the
trial of strychnine and other snake-bite remedies
with varying results. But no spider should be
'trusted. I once imprisoned about 50 spiders' in a
large pickle jar. One bloated yellow-striped indi-
vidual out of ibis motley crew ambled solemnly
around biting all that came in its way. It would
stop for a moment, regard its victim fixedly, and
then literally fold it in a deadly embrace. The
assaulted party simply curled up and died.
“Luke” : Poisoned rabbit as an article ,
of diet has nearly wiped out the native cat
( dasyurus ), but his big brother, the tiger-cat, still
survives even in quarters where poison is laid. The
reason probably is that the tiger-cat, fiercest and
most courageous of our native animals, prefers to
kill its own meat, and is much less addicted to
carrion than the other smellful little beast. The
tigiers occasionally visit poultry yards on South Coast
(N.S.W.), cut the heads off several ebooks, and drink
their blood. One killed in a foray of this kind
measured over 4ft. from tip of nose to end of tail.
Rock piles bordering the coast are their favorite
haunts.
* * » *
“Mrs. Lanc-e Rawson” : How's this? Was
once rocking my baby, aged 10 weeks, in a
chair before the fire, when I felt something bump
my head each time the rocker moved backward.
Without kicking up I several tirnep brushed* my
hand across my head, but went on soothing the
infant to sleep. Presently the Kanaka boy came
to the door with a message and exclaimed, “Quick,
you jump up, Missus; quick, quick!” .1 got up
and saw a huge carpet snake suspended from the
overhead rafter, head down. He had been trying
to get away and intended to use my- roof as the
first stage in the descent. He measured 6ft. 4in.
Another time I was sitting up with a very sick
friend, to whom the least shock might prove fatal.
It was in Queensland, and the mosquito nets were
drawn. Happening to look up I noticed a movement
on the top of the nets and towards the bed post.
It was only a big black snake who was endeavoring
to make his way down to inquire after the patient's
health.
“H.”: Items from explorer McKinlay’s
bill of fare at the tail-end of his journey along
the Burdekin River prospecting for Burke and Wills:
Camels liver stewed and steamed—“dry and juiceless,
but the heart as good as a bullock’s.” The party
grew quite fond of camel-meat. Wild figs—“insipid
and full of small flies,” but some baked roots (nar-
doo, probably) commandeered from aboriginal ovens
were voted “first-rate.” “Heart, liver and kidneys
of a horse excellent as hash.” Greenhide soup!—
“all enjoyed it very much.” “Shot a few crows,
a cormorant, and a white eagle with a blue back
(the white-bellied sea eagle). These, with a little
salted hide to give them a flavor, made an excellent
stew.” Gathered a “palatable fruit about the size
arid color of a plum” (the blue quandong, probably).
ON PRINCIPLE.
THE LADY: “If you chop the wood, bring in
the cows, feed the pigs and put er
coupler nails in the fence I’ll give yer
thrippence.”
LANGUID LUKE: “ Madame, I refuse to accept
charity. Any coin I take I must EARN.”
“Our crow stew excellent.” In certain favored
localities the explorers fed luxuriously on wild
duck, pigeons, fish (bream, cod, and fresh-water cat-
fish chiefly) and kangaroo, wallaby and “euro” meat.
(What is that?) Later, MeKinlay and co. struck a
white man’s camp, and were soon pitching into beef
and damper, and “don’t let me forget it,” says
MeKinlay, “potatoes and mustard.” This civilised
tucker, especially the damper, gave most of the men
severe indigestion, and their legs and feet “swelled
very much.”
(Continued on page 24.)
ON CALM REFLECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Marie, it is so long ago,
And you come back again!
But why recall the distant woe,
Thy dead year’s mede of pain?
That I was kind is very true,
Yet, dear, this somewhat tardy view
But acts as a reminder ;
For kind as I was, sweet, to you,
To you you were still kinder.
os, yes, I do remember well
The furze edge bowed with gold,
The cooing birds, the distant bill,
The tender tale l told,
The atmospheric facts, and all
The piquant matters you recall.
Most eloquent inquirer ;
But though you did my eye enthral,
You were your true admirer.
You had the brownest of brown eyes.
The brightest hair I’ve seen,
Your lips were fashioned Cupid-wise,
Your teeth like pearl between
Shone when you sweetly smiled on me
(How oft you smiled to let me see!)
But now your scented letter
Proves though I knew these things, Marie,
You knew them sooner, better, j
I sought you out at every dance -
That’s recollected too.
1 tramped the hills because perchance
I’d catch a glimpse of you. .
These lines your lone condition tell.
That best it is it so befell
I’ve honestly concluded.
For though I feel I loved you well
Mono loved you, dear, as you did!
VIOTOIUA.
EDDYSON.


Wear a Suit that Satisfies!
v>
J
There is a Fine Range of Nobby
Tweeds to choose from —call and
inspect or write for Patterns to
‘ DESK R.
When you come to think of it—it ..seems foolish to
wear any other Suit —especially when you are dead
sure of satisfaction if you order
■ ■ ■
A
■ ■ ■
Murdoch Winter
Suit-to-measure
Right up to the minute in style — every
garment fitting to perfection and telling
the tale of good dressing in a way that is
attractive —that’s the way of Murdoch
Tailoring.
Let us prove it in your Winter Suit —
you take no risk — if you are not satisfied
with the Suit back goes your money.
LEAVE YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
Desk R.
Messrs. Murdochs In Park S'<t., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Winter Suitings at 70/-
the Suit-to-measurc, with tape and self-measure-
ment form.
Name
.1 ddress
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
HOTELKEEPERS!
o ■
When you taste the quality of Soda made
with the Victory Bar Arm, you marvel at
its sparkling brilliancy, clean flavor, and
thorough saturation. Drawn ice-cold on
draught; better than high-priced bottled
soda.
LEMONADE & DINGER ALE, of delici-
ously clean flavor. No sign of any twang,
as present with other makes of machines.
OUR PATENT WATER-FLUSHING
SYSTEM enables ail pipes to be thor-
oughly flooded every night by simply turn-
ing on a tap. We absolutely guarantee
Lemonade and Gingerale free from objec-
tionable taste and smell.
SIMPLICITY.—THE VICTORY is the
result of years of experience and the
adaptation of the best Mechanical skill.
We have done away with all springs com-
ing in contact with Soda or Syrup.
We show our confidence in this machine
by covering same with a written guarantee.
PRICE.—Our large factory organisation enables us to oiler this leading
Bar Arm at a lower price than any competitor.
On receipt of Postcard we will mail you full particulars.
Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.
219 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Queensland Agents: J. W. Palmer Ltd., Cork Manufacturers and Importers,
Grey Street, South Brisbane.
Adelaide: Silas H. Martin, The Rltz, King William Street.
Perth: A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street.
New Zealand: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets, Wellington.
DO YOU USE WATER?
tii
%
\
Do you Cut Chaff, Saw
Wood or Shear Sheep?
If so, why not Equip Yourself with a Plant that
will save you Time, Money, Worry and Work?
Machinery
is known throughout Australia for* its Sterling Quality and
Attractive Prices. Our various Engines are made especially for
doing various kinds of work. Pumping Plants, Shearing Outfits,
Chaff-cutters and Saw Benches are designed and built for the
various types of Engines. Every combination has been worked out
for special work, after years of constant study and experience.
V*
g
Pumping Plants, Chaff-cutting Sets, Sawing
Outfits, Shearing Plants, etc., can be furnished
complete, ready for work, from £4O upwards .
Write us to-day. Tell us the work you have to do, and we will
send you full particulars and price of a plant to meet your
requirements.
COOPER ENGINEERING
COMPANY LIMITER.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Agents and Stocks in Brisbane, Rock=
hampton, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth
or Launceston.
fdg


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
ZANETIC entirely eliminates the clanger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent peneopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. •[!
#
The
Soldiers’
Pen
Catalogue free on request.
MA6IE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J, A. BURKeT
Choose a "Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can" satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
'Swam safety
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch!
Sold by all Stationers
r Branches. and Jewellers.
S Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
DRINKING WITH MEALS CAUSES
INDIGESTION.
“You should nev/er drink with meals if
you are troubled with indigestion,” I was
told at a time when I could hardly eat a
meal without suffering afterwards. I fol-
lowed the advice rigidly, and, although I
was somewhat relieved, still suffered a good
deal. I tried several medicines, but without
any beneficial effect until a medical friend
recommended taking about half a teaspoonful
of ordinary bisurated magnesia in half a
cupful of warm water after each meal and
at bedtime. The result was quite satisfac-
tory. The bisurated magnesia entirely
counteracted the acidity in the stomach,
which causes dyspepsia; relief came almost
immediately and I am now able to eat, drink
and enjoy my meals without bad effects.
Drinking with my meals does not worry me
now. In case any readers would like to try
this excellent remedy, which I understand
relieves other kinds of indigestion just as
effectually as it did mine, I may add that it
is obtainable from any chemist, but I strongly
advise anyone trying it to make perfectly
sure they get the bisurated magnesia, other
forms not being so suitable for this purpose.
—E.T.G.— Advx.'
“Silas Snell” : They were building a bridge
across the Piper, and Consadine, a very observant
man of an exceedingly curious character, developed
an abiding interest in Dave Eagles, who had a
small, parched, weatherboard house nestling in a
dust bath on the side of the rise about a quarter
of a mile up the road to Hoban. What drew
Consadine’s particular attention to Eagles was the
latter’s extraordinary habit of coming out every
evening at about sundown, standing in the middle
of the track, and peering up north to the line where
the horizon cut across the road. One evening
Consadine, feeling that he must know or bust, asked
Dow (an oldest inhabitant) what the devil Eagles
meant by it. Dow sniffed. He assumed a sentimental
expression. “Poor ole Davie.” he said, and sniffed
again. “A matter of 20 rear ago” (sniff, sniff)
“his wife run away with a baker front Hoban, and
every evenin’ since lie’s come out like that doleful
and alone” (sniff, sniff) “and looked up that there
road, hopin’ to see her a-comin’ back.” Consadine
is a man of sentiment himself; lie was drawn to
Eagles, and one evening he intercepted him when
taking his customary view. “Wlnit are you looking-
for, mate?” he asked. Eagles snorted. “Damn
vouse ’n’ yore bridge!” lie said. “The brewer’s
lorries what comes from Hoban at odd times always
gives me a gallon of beer for harnessin’ up my
’orse, ’n’ givin’ them a pull over the ford. I’m
gener’ly on the look out for them.”
*** * -
“Montalcx”: It is tolerably certain that
mouse-multitudes originate always in grain-accumu-
lations that have been loft long undisturbed. About
every eighth week sees anew mouse-family of six
to 10, and these, in about another eight weeks,
start reproducing in turn; so that, with constant
food, shelter and safety, the figure soon runs into
millions. The strangest fact about these mouse-visi-
tations is that the plague sometimes totally dis-
appears in one night. Many years ago, in north-
western Victoria, a district that had for weeks been
swarming .with the vermin found itself one morning
without sign of a mouse, except the hosts of slain.
Fantastic explanations of this phenomenon are
legion, but no reasonable theory has yet been
advanced.
“Deck-hand”: The German boiling-down
corpse factory isn’t new. Nearly 30 years ago the
Merrie England discovered on the coast of New
Guinea that the lamented cannibal was not wasted
after he had thrown his alley. First, choice cuts
were devoured; then other sections were boiled to
extract juices which were infallible poisons for
arrow-tips; finally the scraps were rendered down
to grease. It was a rarity to find even small bones
disregarded, and shins and larger bones were used to
clinch arguments in the young men’s Bible clubs.
* * ■* *
“Bib”: The ring-tailed ’possum isn’t
always satisfied to have its domicile in trees. I
know a pair which have dwelt in a nook or gable
of the same house-roof for over 10 years. They
descend at night to nip tender shoots off rose bushes
and will usually say “thank you” for apples left
out for them. While the roof was undergoing re-
pairs its lodgers left and returned when the fuss
was over.
* * * *
“Montalex” : The Egyptian black rat, said
to be gaining ground in S.A., is not identical with
the black rat observed amongst those destroyed in
Adelaide during the plague-scare. This blue-black
rat —once common in Europe, but now almost exter-
minated by the grey Norway rat —is smaller, slen-
derer and swifter than its supplanter, with sharper
muzzle, larger ears, and a much longer tail. It is
occasionally seen about the wharves in Melbourne
and Port Adelaide, but does not seem to have made
good in Sydney or Brisbane.
HELPFUL.
NERVOUS CURATE: “Er—have you — er—any
babies' feeding-bottles?”
CHEMIST: “Er — yes—how many would you
like ?”
TRUE APPRECIATION.
FIRST BUSINESS MAN : “I've been reading Dickens lately. What a great writer he is.”
SECOND B. M. : “Great writer! I should think so. If I knew his address Pd give him
a good job writing all my adrts.”
“Musketoon”: “Narroe” (B. 12/4/’l7)
casts doubt on my knowledge of the Lake Cowal
country. In my par. (B. 15/3/’l7) I did not men-
tion the area under wheat or oats in the lake bed.
All I do know was that the cocky mentioned filled
the cracks in the ground with sawdust, slung a bit
of manure about, and reaped a good crop. Cracky
soil is not unsuitable for crops. It is met with in
all gilgai country, of which Forbes (N.S.AV.) is an
example; and Forbes is the chief wheat-producing
district in the State—last season 480,000 bags or
so of grain were stacked at the one railway station.
At Weelong, a few miles put, 60 bushels of wheat
per acre has been harvested, and there is a gilgai or
two close handy. Sometimes in this cracky soil
the farmers have to build bridges across the wrinkles
in the surface so that the harvester and other
machinery can gather up the crop. Another word
with “Narroe.” The “pelicans” he says he saw
on Lake Cowal were cranes, of which there are hun-
dreds about at any time. One other lake-bed which-
has grown crops is Lake George, near Gundaroo
(N.S.W.).
“Melos” : We are slowly awakening to the
fact that many pests have their uses. Lantana, one
of the sorrows of the man on the land, can be
turned into paper, as also can' Chinese burr, blady
grass, Scotch thistle and Paddy’s lucerne (Sida
retusa). The last-named has long since formed the
basis of a popular remedy for scours in stock.
Prickly pear has proved a god-send to many cattle-
men in droughts, and a decoction of the leaves is
the finest thing on earth for whooping cough. Other
virtues have been overlooked no doubt in the inten-
sity of the war waged against the vegetable. The
fruit bat (flying fox) lias been regarded as a curse
generally, yet he possesses about six shillings’ worth
of glove-making- skin and an edible carcase.* Leich-
hardt testified to the life-sustaining properties of
the flesh. Living exclusively on fruits and honey,
the animal should be better eating than offal-devour-
ing beasts which we favor.' The smellfulness is only
skin deep. Even the white ant has its uses. As an
article of food in the chicken run, I know nothing
to equal this insect, and the bush dweller can tell
you the value of the ant-heap for building ovens,
barn floors, etc.
* * * *
That hard-case of ours, Billjim, nearly
brought the wedding of his pal to an untimely end
one day last week. The ring had apparently shrunk
en route to the church, and the groom had some
difficulty in slipping it on his sweetheart’s finger.
The awkward silence was broken by the supporting
force: “Spit on it, Bill,” he advised in a bull’s
whisper!
“Musketoon”: When the excavation work
was going on in the floor of the Murrumbidgee at
Burrinjuck weir, a toad was dynamited out of a
shelf of rock which was 50 feet under the bed of
the river. He gave a few kicks and then died,
probably disgusted with the discovery that even down
in the bowels of the earth a bloke wasn’t free from
interruption.
* * * *
“James E. D.”: Although I’m a pommy
out only two years and consequently supposed to
know nothing, I propose to correct the statement of
“Wandi” (B. 19/4/’l7) that the apostle, magpie,
lark and the swallow are the only Australian birds
which build mud nests. On the North Coast
(N.S.W), where I was recently employed there’s a
little bird called the pee-wit. lie builds a mud
house.
“Me.”: Aboriginal hand-prints similar to
those mentioned by “Salex” (B. 29/3/’l7) exist in
several small caves at Cowan, an inlet of Broken
Bay (N.S.W.). The markings are scattered here and
there about the walls and roofs of the caves, but it
is evident that many more have been obliterated by
the erosion of the sandstone and the action of
generations of camp-fire smoke. The staining material
was applied on the outstretched fingers, and the
hands were then daubed on the rock face. Some
of the stains are red, others are black. Most of
those remaining are well preserved, which fact gives
rise to a question as to the nature of the stain that
has lasted down the centuries so well. Whilst on
the subject of Binghi. art, can anybody tell me the
meaning of the numerous giant footprints carved in
the rock at Ivuringai Chase, 20 miles or so from
Sydney ? Right and left feet are represented in their
proper order, and each impression measures about
14in. long by 6in. wide. The length of the stride
varies from 6ft. to Bft. Are they intended to record
the existence of some palaeolithic giant who strode
over the face of things with seven-leagued feet?
* * * *
“Sarto”: “Wandi” (B. 19/4/’l7) mis-
leads when he says that the apostle bird, the white-
winged chough, the magpie lark and swallows are
the only Australian birds which build mud nests.
What about the kingfisher and' the diamond-sparrow ?
These two make tunnels, longer than a person’s arm,
in banks of creeks and faces of cuttings. What beats
me is why they frequent the banks of creeks subject
to floods ? Do they provide for this emergency in
the structure of the home or is it for the same
reason that we build castles in the air?
“Te Whare”: Wallaga Lake (Mission
Station) aboriginals (South Coast, N.S.W.) at one
time boasted a gum-leaf band of over a dozen able
performers. This sable orchestra visited neighbor-
ing towns at intervals, and gave performances to
which crowds were attracted, not only by curiosity,
but also by the intrinsic merit of the music itself,
svhich resembled that produced by many Violins
played in flat keys. The leaf is bent double, and
held to the lips jew’s-harp fashion, but few leaves
apparently will serve the purpose. Having a fine
oar for sounds the Australian aboriginal easily learns
to play such instruments as the concertina, accordeon,
mouth-organ and violin.
**.*.'*
“McLirr” : “Nick Bottom” (B. 29/3/’l7)
could have barracked for iron-bark juice in yet
another direction. The blacks in Central Queens-
land use it for sprains and strains, and from personal
experience I can say it is effective. Take a piece of
the bark off a young tree, and, stripping the outer
skin, place the inner portion in a billy with plenty
of water, boil for a feiv hours and apply’the resulting
liquid as hot as can be borne to the effected part,
and immediate relief will be felt. After a few
applications, the sufferer will be right again. If
the part afflicted can be immersed in the liquid the
good effects will be sooner apparent. This holds
good also for boils or for the soreness resulting from
jarring the muscles. The liquid must be warmed at
each fresh application.
“Pick”: When a sudden flood sweeps the
flats under which burrowing animals have made
warrens, not such numbers are destroyed as some
landowners think. During the wet times of 191(1
on low levels among the Jingeras (N.S.W.) the
numerous wombat holes v'ere converted into brimful
wells. The tunnelers came on deck ; but when dis-
turbed before they could remove the furniture and
babies to drier apartments, they dived through six
or eight feet of water and stayed below. From the
bottom of each shaft an upward lateral drive was
tunnelled, at the end of which compressed air walled
back the moisture. In this space the family
assembled ,at prayers for drought.
“H.V.E.”: According to E. R. Waite, no
mean authority on Australian serpents, there are
about 60 venomous and about 60 non-venomous
species amongst them. Fortunately, many of the
venomous ones are exceedingly rare. In addition
to ordinary varieties the Upper Murray swamps
shelter two savage and dangerous six-footers, both
uncommon. Recently, on Monaro (N.S.W.), some
quail shooters struck a rare snake, also in swampy
country. It was of a dull red color, about 3ft. 6in.
in length. Another Monaro snake which I have seen
once or twice is of a silvery grey color, and is,
f think, a harmless variety. A third devil, found
occasionally about rivers on the tablelands, is light
green in coloring-—the green tree-snake, probably.
It is also a non-venomous species; but of black,
.brown and tiger snakes Monaro has a liberal supply.
One black specimen measured over Bft. lin.
THE MOB.
OVERSEER (back from Show) : “I saw Dave
and old Tom and Bill Thomas ”
TACKY: “ An ’ long Jim —you see him, Boss?”
OVERSEER : “Yes.”
JACKY: “By Gripes, I bin tinkit musta bin
plurry big- pfeller crowd at him Show.”
“May D.”: Add the magpie-robin to
“Wandi’s” list (B. 19/4/’l7) of mud-nest builders.
This little black-and-white bird makes its home in
the gums of nearly any part of Australia.
“Pick”: When your horse limps from
corns; under the hoof curse the shoer. Shoeing short
tends to throw the prad’s weight upon his heels, and
a crop of corns, with subsequent lameness will
sooner or later appear. To euchre them pare away
the growth with a sharp farrier’s knife until blopd
begins to show through the quick. Then fill the
cavity with an equal mixture of brown sugar and
resin and sear with a red-hot iron. The’ operation
gives the animal little pain, if you haven’t bored too
deeply, and in a few days the remainder of the corn
may be scraped cleanly away. A leather pad under
the next shoes will permit the horse to clout the road
in comfort.


t*r
r
2.4
r 4
l
7
,
JM
J
j
K£?
/ \
/
Cigarettes should possess
individuality — something
distinctive — something
that lingers pleasantly in
the mind.
Once you have made the
acquaintance of
$TijTE (HPIJpSS
CIGARETTES
you will recognise their personality and their
claim on your loyalty for all time. You will never
regret becoming' a smoker of tHese delightfully
“ individual ” cigarettes.
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
!O for 6d.
STANDARD WEIGHT NOT LESS THAN IO for 6d.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. Ltd., LONDON, ENGLAND.


HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
GOUGHS, GROUP AND COLDS.
THOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud,” or serious illness may follow.
jA
An Excellent
Preparation.”
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold By all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at
Sydney, n.s.w.; Wellington, n.z.^
%
/I
ft
Ss
%
15
Kmcsitr-5»-hth-
“0.K.” : The unconscions humor of show-
men's puff pars, touches its highest point in
dealing with picture-theatres. Take this,
for instance : “A film feature of more than
ordinary interest will be the first appear-
ance in Melbourne of Mary Pickford under
her own management." A number of black-
and-white ghosts, including the photographic
shade of Mary P., perform a drama on the
screen, and the audience is told to be speci-
ally interested in the fact that Mary is run-
ning the show. That is to say she is “head
of the strong financial organisation” that
paid the salaries.
Moving pictures at Nliill (Vic.) drew one
of the audience right up on to the platform.
A recruiting-meeting lilm was depicting
atrocities committed by the Germans (how
the photographer happened to be on the
scene is not stated), and the earnest citizen
was so carried away that he started to climb
up with a loudly-expressed intention of kill-
ing every unspeakable Hun on the screen.
Whether’ his excitement was temperamental
or spirituous, or stage-managed, is not clear,
but it caused great enthusiasm and induced
a good crop of enlistments when the ques-
tion was put a few minutes later.
“Ami”: Wilson Forbes first came under
the Melbourne eye as a humble member of
the Bijou company, with Mr. and Mrs.
G. B. W. Lewis (Itose Edouin) over 40
years ago. He studied and worked hard,
and became a country manager, known from
Brisbane downwards; but his ideas were too
lofty for the public. He always wanted to
be at the classical. His Sir Peter Teazle
was a fine, ripe performance. With Bellew
and Potter, in Melbourne, he acted Sir
Oliver Surface—the finest I ever saw. I
doubt whether any Australian thespian ever
went through greater hardships. Once when
he was stranded I think he had to work in
a mine for his bread. He tried management
at Melbourne Alexandria before it became
Her Majesty’s, but didn’t do as well as
Dan Barry.
“H. 0.”: In their “Bunyip” panto, the
Fullers try the experiment, of ' a female
Dame. The results are dismal. But what
a bid for success Connie Ediss would make
in tlie Dame part of the next J.C.W. panto.!
“C. Oekney”: The English Divorce Court
seems likely to be working overtime shortly
unravelling the matrimonial knots of mature
theatrical stars. A few days after Lillah
McCarthy had applied for the restitution of
her conjugal rights the cable, announced that
Violet Vanbrugh had called round on the
Judge on a similar errand. Violet, who
owns up to 50, has long been the spouse of
Arthur Bourchier, one of London’s best-
known actor-managers. Her younger sister
Irene (Mrs. “Dot” Boueicault) was in Aus-
tralia with John L. Toole, who gave the
Vanbrugh sisters their first parts on the
professional stage.
A man on Poverty Point in the U.S. sig-
nals some old friends :
After a period of comparative quiet . Margaret
Anglin opened at Buffalo, N.Y., on February 5, in
“The Lioness,” a dramatisation of Gertrude Ather-
ton’s “The Perch of the Devil,” by Rupert Hughes,
author of “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford.” The play
is hardly suitable for the lady, but it may become
a box-office masterpiece. O. P. Heggie keeps his
place among the headliners. He was in the cast
of Chesterton's “Magic” in New York, and also
played the part of the diffident baby-carrier in
Galsworthy’s trifle, “The Little Man.” There is
some talk of the Australian going into management
on his own account. Young Dion Titheradge has,
become a minor playwright, and tested the Yanks
with a small thing called “A Girl of To-day.”
Lionel Atwill, hero of “The Whip” in Australia, was
lately producing at the New York Bandbox, the
midget theatre where the celebrated Washington
Square Players organisation was born. Rupert
Darrell, formerly J.C.W.’s “generally useful” in
pantomime, has found a place with the Ziegfeld
Follies. Annette Kellerman is mainly submerged
in another nioist act, “The Queen of the Mermaids,”
at New York Hippodrome. Hardee Kirkland, who
was Charles Waldron’s mortal enemy in the Aus-
tralian production of “The Squaw Man,” has climbed
out of an Eastern movie studio to impersonate a
Bad Thirst in a prohibition play, “A Dry Town,”
at St. Louis. Irene Franklin has blossomed into a
song-composer. Her voice and her frocks are as
good as ever. • Gerald Griffin, who successfully
featured Gerald Griffin in Irish plays in Australia,
was last heard of in a farce, “Fifty Miles from
Boston,” at Seattle. Appearing in a new piece,
“Rolling Stones,” at Oakland, California, is Virginia
Brissae, the twang-some actress who ragtimed the
leading part in “The Chorus Lady” at Melbourne
Majestic. Stousher Les Darcy, engaged in vaudeville
for a while, slunk away from Chicago with £6OO
for a week’s shirk. Showman Buffalo Bill left his
widow £13,000 embedded in a pub and a couple
of small ranches. Lily Langtry has come over to
sell her “memories” to the Hearst newspaper syndi-
cate, and is receiving, it is said, £2OO for each
of them.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“8.J.”: About 90 per cent, of the em-
ployees in Melbourne tobacconist shops hav-
ing become members of the Shop Assistants’
Union, they are now asking for hours similar
to those enjoyed by men who work in shops
where mere necessities are sold. At present
Melbourne’s tobacco shops close at hours
varying from fi.3o to 11.80, few in the city
closing earlier than 9 o’clock. Sweating is
rampant in the trade, and it is time that
something was done to bring the fag mer-
chant into line with the tripe vendor, the
drug seller and others. There seems no
reason why the weed should not be declared
a thistle after fi o’clock.
**. * *
“Hamer” : I had agreed to share my hotel
bedroom with a stranger, and had just com-
menced to dream comfortably when a tragic
voice remarked, “Socks, sir? About what
price?” Then the voice went on, babbling
desperately about socks of all descriptions,
-until in tones of despair it said, “Sorry we
can’t suit, sir. Are you sure these, won’t
do? Good morning, sir!” Then there was
a whirlwind of sighs, and sounds like a
dying whale as the unsuccessful salesman
heaved in his sleep. J.ust as I was dropping
off the dreamer started again: “This is a
very nice line of shirts, sir!” “All right!”
I yelled, “I’ll take them —the whole d —d
lot of them!” He moaned and turned over
and I hoped it was closing time; but he
had only transferred himself to the haber-
dashery department, where lie started to
offer his fastidious customer ties, collars,
braces and other articles. None of them
would suit, and I yelled at him fruitlessly.
The poor wretch could only see the one
implacable customer, and things I offered
to buy out of compassion were wrapped up
and put away while the salesman com-
plained : “Sorry you don’t like them, sir.
Good morning!”
“Tekelo”: Interested to hear from
“McNorth” (B. 28/T2/TG) that cocoanuts in
North Bananaland “bear better, and often
sooner, than in any other part of the world."
Have heard a similar yarn in every cocoa-
nut country I have been in. But once you
have shoved the seed into the ground you
generally find a good seven years elapse
before you begin to handle real money from
them. Cocoanuts should be appraised by a
pessimist. They are very patchy in their
results, even in ideal country. Have known
trees to bear before their fourth year, and it
is fairly common to see occasional trees
I -aring, and dropping nuts, between their
fourth and fifth years. Taken by and
large, the cocoanut palm does not pro-
duce copra till it is five and a half, or
six, years old. Even then the crop is a com--
paratively light one. But should the first
crop, as sometimes happens, be heavy, things
are evened up by the palms producing very
little for the next year or two. Then, about
the seventh or eighth year, they seem to drop
into their stride and bear regularly about
12cwt. of copra per acre per annum. There
is a lot of hot-air being blown about the
copra industry just now, and if any get-rich-
quick newcliums rush in in the expectation
of making easy money in five years they will
be disappointed.
“Lahma": Got one of the pleasures
of my life when, leaving Gallipoli, a
Jack Tar gave me a fill of navy
tobacco. He was supplied with lib.
of leaf in Home waters, and 21b. when
out of Home waters. The leaf, with stalks
removed, is slightly damped with cold tea
and placed one upon another ; then they are
enclosed in a cloth, rolled compactly into a
cigar-shaped bundle and bound tightly with
yarn. In a few days the twist is ready for
choking strangers. Of course, the borrower
is told that plenty of rum has been put on
the leaf; but the sailor only knows one way
of usin' l, rum, and tobacco doesn’t enter into
it.
-* * -X- *
“Lou" : Beware of the “master gardener”
—the cove who sends his man a day a week
to trifle with your lawn-mower, edge up the
grass-plot and brush all the gravel off your
pathways. The “master” dodges in the side-
way during the afternoon, when no one is
home, and lifts the prize bulbs he sold you
last year and sells them to someone
else. He stocks his miniature nursery
with cuttings from your shrubs, sells
’em back to you, and charges for the
pots that somehow can never be found. A
barrow of manure is called a “load,” and
with a truck of gravel he does your paths
and someone else’s. (That’s a truck each.)
If he does up your garden by contract his
liurry-up methods make his men indifferent,
your shooting jonquils are turned heads
down, and you wonder what makes them so
late. He swops you spades, rakes and even
mowers, and is the neatest thief and cutest
middleman in suburbia. Just now he
is notifying his clients “that owing to the
increase in wages (in Vic. only) his prices
from the end of March will be a bob a day
more. And lie is getting an extra
sixpence under the lap this way: The
man lie formerly classed as a “gardener,”
and paid eight shillings under the old award,
is now regarded as a “gardener’s laborer”
and paid Bs. fid., the new rate for that class,
instead of 95., the new wage for “gardeners.”
* * *
"J. Gee”: I have seen thousands of tons
of black wattle stripped, but never sighted
the stripping tool (a cross between a spoon
and a chisel) mentioned by “Wattle Bark.”
I know only the keen-edged axe and a toma-
hawk. Not many barkers climb the trees.
They get the bark off sooner and get more
of it by cutting the trees down first. They
only use the axe on one side of the tree,
and when the vegetable falls it does not fail
flat, but is propped up at one end, on account
of the butt not being cut through from both
sides. Then the barker lops off the side
branches and runs his tomahawk right along
the full length of the trunk, cutting right
through to the wood. The bark is levered
and pulled off in long strips, which later are
cut into about four-foot lengths and
bundled in hundredweights. If the bark is
taken off’ by climbing the trees it is torn off
in strips of all lengths and sizes, and takes
longer to bundle. “Wattle Bark’s” tree that
gave only lewt. of bark must have been
a sapling. I have seen 4ewt. taken off a single
black wattle.
* * * *
"Melos” : Mention of the late Alban Gee
and Cordingley (B. 2G/4/T7) recalls some
interesting facts in connection with the meat-
canning industry in Australia. Itamornie
Meat Works, which were the first as well
as the largest and most successful of their
kind in the “colonies,” began operations in
1856, and have continued to the present with
but one idle season (1910). Cattle in those
days could be bought for £5 or £(i a head.
In 1849 herds could be had for ridiculously
small figures—Ss. fid. to 12s. fid. each was
considered a good price for the beefy sort.
Itamornie confined itself exclusively to tal-
low-making at that time. Apart from can-
ning meats and mutton, these works have
treated vegetables, kangaroos’ tails, poultry
and horseflesh —the latter for the French
market. In 1874 the weekly killing averaged
250 head of cattle: and 20 years later this
had increased to 800.
* * * *
“B.": Some of the Fiji commercial
houses are going to be bitten hard.
In the fierce competition for copra and trade
Morris, Iledstrom, Ltd., introduced Chinese
traders into the eastern area, and also sup-
ported small Indian traders in the sugar
country. Now on the beach at Levuka goods
can be bought from these Orientals at a
price substantially lower than similar goods
can be obtained from firms whence they 'draw
their supplies. The second stage has been
reached in the sugar districts of western
Vitilevu, where a firm of Indian merchants
now imports goods for a business built on
credit from their white competitors. The
growth .of these Indian storekeepers, who
naturally draw, the great coolie trade, is
amazing, and lias made the white firms sit
up and take uneasy notice. It is confidently
predicted that the Chinese will be the next
to combine and strike out for, themselves as
direct importers and copra buyers. Decidedly
the white merchant has interesting times
awaiting him.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko” ; The cost of living in
-Australia is a good deal less than in Fiji.
At Suva, outside of hotels, which charge
from 10s. per day upwards, there is no board
and lodging cheaper than 80s. per week,
with additional 12s. to 15s. per month for
laundry. No matter how indifferent the
meal or the bed the lowest charge is 2s. for
each. This is following the lead of the
coastal shipping cos., who, in vessels beside
which some N. S. Wales coastal timber
droghers are sumptuous, levy a rate of £1
per day. These co.’s in their turn are evi-
dently following the track of the Union S.S.
Co. of Maoriland and the A.U.S.N. of Aus-
tralia, which for the eight hours run from
Lautoka to Suva, when never more than two
meals, and sometimes only one, has to be
served on board, demand £1 12s. fid.,- or at
the rate of 4s. per hour.
* * * *
“K.Q.”: “Globe” (B. 26/4/M7) is right.
Some inquiry should be made re hand-saving
automatic-sending devices for telegraphists.
N. S. Wales will supply them only to
broken-down operators whose nerves are so
played out that they can’t use the old-
fashioned key. In a recent Arbitration
Court case Dr. Chisholm Ross, of Sydney,
said that a man needed to be superhuman to
perform a telegraph-operator’s work under
present conditions, and that the facial con-
tortions of one nervy break-up he saw at
work were sickening. Yet it is necessary for
a man to have reached this pathetic state
before he is supplied with an instrument the
early use of which would have saved his
health and the stupid Department’s time.
“Murkali”: If, as “T.0.D.” (8.19/4/T7)
suggests, a recognised system of word-count-
ing was introduced, much bother and bad
language would be saved in the Telegraph
Branch. The receiving telegraphist has to
count the words of each telegram to see he
has the number specified in the “check.”
Scores of words, such as “postoffice,” “good-
bye,” “tomorrow” and “alright,” are con-
tinual sources of trouble on account of being
written and counted by the customer as two
words, though admitted by Departmental
rule as one. The result is that the receiver
has to stop the sender and query the “check.”
On a duplex line this means stopping four
men, and it is being done on scores of lines
all day long. The dunderheaded Department
contributes as much as possible to the tangle.
For example, “anti air craft gun” is ad-
mitted as one word, “an revoir ” is rigidly
two, while “good-bye" is one.
A MAGNIFICENT A[?].
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Abo Oofbloom was tlie man wlio made
The Oofbloom Antibilibus Rill,
Then vigorously pushed his trade
In every land on earth, until
The pill enjoyed in either zone
The largest circulation known.
Ilis posters flared on every wall,
lie hung his streamers in the sky.
Whites, yellows, Indians, Zulus, all
Were urged the Oofbloom pill to try.
With blest use of advertisement
Was Abe implicitly content.
His pill won him a million clear,
And into Parliament he swam ;
And ere he reached his sixtieth year
He was the great Sir Abraham.
And then his ads he falsified—
The foolish man fell ill and died !
Years passed, and Gabriel’s bugle skirled.
Came Oofbloom blinking from the clay:
“My vord dot’s heard all rount der vorld,”
He said. “See, Gabriel, I pay
One tousand sovereigns if you vill
Make mention of der Oofbloom pill!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
THE END OF MACGREGOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Thespian sighed into his beer.
“Poor Tom Macgregor's done, ’ he said.
“I fear he has no chances here;
His acting days are surely sped.
He is too old by far to roam
And start again beyond the foam,
Or take to other duties, hence
There but remains the Actors’ Home
And deadly total abstinence.
“Theatric bosses here about
Had given him just one more try,
Vntil he wore their patience out,
Then whispered him a fond good-bye.
His weakness when in haste is gin,
With beer he trifles otherwise.
For months he lived upon his kin,
Then came a fair engagement in
A local picture enterprise.
“He did the villain pretty well
In Bride, The Cnoba Queen,’
But one hot evening, strange to tell,
He stepped right down from out the screen.
Of course there was the deuce to pay.
It can't be done'? That’s what you think.
In fact, he simply couldn’t stay.
Some chap stood up and shouted: ‘Hey,
Macgregpr, come and have a drink!’ ”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


BRITISH
THOMSON
HOUSTON O? L T .°
RUGBY
E NGLAN
SB
%
*
fd
B.T.H. MAZDA
INSTALS A G.E. RADIATOR
Here we meet again ! How are you ?
Quite well, thank you ? Yes, so am I.
Awfully well and awfully pleased, but I bet
you don’t know why lam so pleased. Well,
I’ll tell you —yes, bai Jove, I will. I’ve just
installed a G.E. ELECTRIC RADIATOR.
Convenient! Economical! Comfortable ! Its
radiance and warmth adds cheer to any
room —its operation is simple—its appear-
ance attractive and ornamental.
How many times do you want a fire
without the trouble of making it, or the
nuisance of clearing the dust and ashes
away ? A G.E. Radiator eliminates all this
unnecessary labour and energy. It may be
used in any room where a suitable electric
receptacle is available —gets “ into action ”
immediately, and continues to produce its
glowing warmth until “switched off” at any
moment when its discontinuance is desired.
Oh, this is the life, to be sure —if
you’ve got a G.E. Radiator. How about
getting one —what ?
Smiths*
JULIUS
H f* StS/SA"/ '//'SSssSr-'t'/'**,
W///M
mm,?mm
mmi
iimn (i
yj l |=i % | p| f* Uim I
I.J
I s
1
0
i
r , f
r
) ■ f If
m i f
f I
%
I ii I
it i
Ml 1
M > i
1
&
'mk
W
\
2>
2f
=5&
3
II
k
ST
(Australian • General* Electric- G?
Wentworth Ay Sydney, Oof Queen & Little Collins St Melbourne.
Representing Thomson Houston. O? jCtd. JZugby, Dig/and
<6 GENERAL ELECTRIC C 9, NEW YORK.U.S.A.


A. SAUNDERS, Diamond Merchant
A. Saunders’
l'ure Double-
cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamonds,
Rubies or
Sapphires
Oval Cluster
Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
All Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
©
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Necklace, Isct., Gold
£22/10/-
Diamonds and Pearls, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond
Cluster Three-bar Brooch, Isct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, isct. Gold,
- £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Crossover
Kina', IBct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamond,
£l5.
■V.,
A. Saunders’
Three Pure
Double-rut
Diamonds
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£35.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent Ex-
panding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, Lever move-
ment, compensation balance, 9ct. gold throughout,
£7/10/-
15ct. gold throughout, £l2/10/-. Other designs,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6, £7.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 15ct. Gold, Patent Ex-
panding Watch Bracelet, full jewelled Lever move-
ment set with Olivines, Red Stones or Pearls, £l2/10/-,
£l5 £l7/10/-. Diamonds and Rubies, £2O. All
Diamonds, £3O, £4O, £5O, according to size of diamonds.
'<y
\S>T
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Ex-
panding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled Lever move-
ment, compensation balance, 9ct. Gold throughout,
£B/10/-
15ct. Gold throughout, £l2/10/-; extra movement,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond and Pearl
Necklace, Isct. Gold,
£B/10/-. All Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut
Diamond Bar Brooch, Isct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
loot. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Five Pure
Double-cut
Diamond
Ring, loct.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’
Pure Double-
cut Diamond
Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £15.
Larger Diamond? £20, £25.
A. Saunders’ Double-
row Half-hoop Bing,
set with six Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and six Rubies,
Sapphires or Olivines, 18ct.
Gold, £6/10/-; All Dia-
monds, £l2/10/-, £l5,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds and
Rubies, or
Sapphires
Marquise
Ring, IBct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure, Double-cut Diamond
Half-hoop Bracelet, lSct, Gold, £25.
Set Pearls, £5.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
865-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite
Railway Station).
o~A\r-
A. Saunders’ Pure x/ouble-cut Diamond
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £5O. Larger Diamonds, £65.
Do you feel Throaty
Then lose no time in buying a tin of
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Are made from a formula of the Liverpool Throat
Hospital. They are antiseptic and kill the germs.
EVANS, SONS, LBSCHBR & WEBB, Limited, LONDON.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £4,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc>
Cost, of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company's Method. i
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Mf.riue
England, Bd. Uow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll" Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s; including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. llow to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life. 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet's
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flag'ellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatebford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
m
%
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. : Copters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who. anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its. fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prof. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE' TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise,* 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The AVhite
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter. 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy. 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang oj>
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6,
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ HFandy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDouuall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes; 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my
your cash.
prices with others and save
PF'Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
> . --
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Ivey 1 to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), f/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRTTE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney <only>


ft;
Si
On the Rollof Honour
lOOK for “Certain-feed” on the roofing you
j buy. This trademark stands for honourable manu-
facture and proved service. In the battle with the
elements —both the drive of storms and the
quiet attacks of atmospheric forces — Cer•
tain-teed Roofing has won renown.
It has been tested in every climate,
on every kind of Roof —flat or gabled. It
has proved absolutely water-tight; proved
itself wear-proof and lasting.
It insulates against the passage of
heat or cold and assures comfort and security
beneath it wherever used. Comes in rolls of vari-
ous weights. Easy to lay. It never buckles, creeps,
nor cracks; does not blister nor dry out.
Be sure to specify Certain-teed. Ful-
lest particulars may be had from
Mr. C. C. McCann—Perpetual Trustee Bldg., Sydney, N. S. W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation
Proprietors of: General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Mound City Paint & Color Co. Gregg Varnish Co.
S3*
sssl
sf,^;
Wholesale Distributors.
N. S, WALKS: John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne,
QUEENSLAND: James Campbell A Sons Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Harris S'carfe & Co., Ltd., Gawler Place, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: McLean Bros. & Rigs' Ltd., 104 Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: W. Hart & Sons, Charles Street, Launceston; Tattersall A Co. Ltd.,
Wilson Street, Burnie; T. J. Cane & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
M !■ mwin mu
N
OS
s
• X
%3>
£
&
a
&
WRIGLEYS
Famous Chewing Sweet
"The Flavour Lasts”
It cleanses the teeth—sweetens the
mouth—allays thirst and fatigue.
Soldiers in Europe are finding it a
great comfort.
It gives them vim
and staying power.
Send some to your
soldier or sailor.
3d. per packet of 5 big
bars from Chemists, Con •
fectioners and other
stores. Or send 3 penny
stamps to J. C. Gambles
& Coy, Commerce Hous ,
Melbourne, sole Aus.
Agents.
Chew it
after
every
meal
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
r?P
SPEARMINT
1
1
i
the perfect GUM H£SIS
m
m .
SEALED TIGHT KEPT RIGHT
mmnmssmk
£205
17
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DiBECTOtts: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; 'Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
0. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000.
11. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,660,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £6 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
gdf
h
N0OI2))
s
Bfz-
REPEATING AND
AUTOLOADING
SHOT GUNS
T> EMINGTON UMG
Autoloading Arms are
made under tke famous Browning
•jf patents winch are recognized as unex-
celled. Our Repeating Shot Guns are
fast gaining favour. Send for descriptive
Igatalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO*
D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
RZ m M totl
&
You Sir! with aTough Beard
MCMUgns
SHAUIK3
CRWM
®
SummMnnn
OitMiwcCo
Newark ftJUU
and a
Tender Skin!
YOU who know what
chaving troubles are.
You who dread the
daily torture —the smart-
ing skin —the objection-
able “rubbing in” the
thin lather that dries
and flakes—to you
SHAVING CREAM
offers complete relief from these shaving annoyances.
We claim that the secret of shaving is in the lather and
not in the razor, and that Mennen’s will eliminate your
shaving troubles.
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St., Sydney, N. S. W.
(§)
Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN.
g
•J 2909. —Garnet,
Peridot and
Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold Pendant.
Price 21 /-
LATEST
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
C 6390. —Fine Quality
Amethyst and Pearl
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch.
Price £3/15/-
Charming Gifts
in Gem Jewellery
At Stewart Dawson’s.
The name of Stewart Dawson is a guarantee of
reliability in all that pertains to Gem Jewellery,
and our Prices show a SUBSTANTIAL SAVING
by comparison.
*
%
05390. —HIGH-GRADE KK Y LESS LEVER
WATCH, Fully Jewelled, with Patent Expanding
Bracelet. Price, 9ct. Gold, £7/7/-
Isct. Gold, £lO/10/-
STEWART
DAWSONS,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
fdg
P 2087. —Tur-
quoise and Pearl
or Pink Tourma-
line and Pearl
Set Oct. Gold
Pendant. Price
35/-
LATEST
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
C 6749. —Fine Quality
Amethyst and Pearl Set
15ct. Gold Brooch.
Price, £5/5/-


[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Eerrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
HOYT'S PICTORES
Two features every night, 3 hours —12.000 feet of film —8 to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to G.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
ifcSSIP
Throat aw
D SMgs^
vM't
Ci«t''
ww
■;
jjOMOO™
m
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
If You Are
Run Down*
Builds up Health and Strength.
If you are run down from overwork, anxiety, illness, or
if your appetite and digestion are impaired and y ur
nervous system in need of a tonic, no treatment will give
such all-round good results as a course of Angier’s
Emulsion. It promotes appetite, soothes and s'rengthens
the organs of digestion, overcomes nervous depression
and builds up health and strength. Angier’s Emulsion
has been prescribed by the medical profession for twenty-
five years ; it is a standard remedy of proved value.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Melb. Argus actually quotes ex-Treasurer
Higgs as saying:—•
The Defence expenditure is extravagant, and I
believe there is not the supervision that there ought
to be over the officers responsible for that expendi-
ture.
After which the Phewsion organ remai'ks
that “the Ministry will be expected to act.”
When the Argus quotes respectfully the
utterances of a Labor ex-Minister there must
be something in the wind, and the difficult
job of shifting Pearce seems to be the some-
thing in this case.
GOT THEM AGAIN.
THE HAPPY WARRIOR ( noticing numerous
reflections of himself in the barber's
mirrors): “’Struth! The blanky
platoon has followed me in, and they're
all potty!"
“Mr. Hughes is far-seeing,” burbles a
Tory sheet. Well, he ought to be. He never
has any trouble with his I’s!
The party system as it is run in Aus-
tralia boils down every time to whether the
people want Waste or Waist.
According to Hughes and the Argus all
German votes went to the Labor party.
Well, it was not through want of the
Liberals cadging for them. In Die Kirchen
und Missions-Zeitung, a German sheet
published in South Aus, two advertisements
in German appeared, one asking for
votes for “Your old, well-tried and big-
hearted Representative, Patrick McMahon
Glynn,” and the other for support
for the Phewsion Senate candidates. What
would Hughes • have had to say if
Labor had issued such a supplication?
[B. J. 11. Owen, 75 Glenhuntly Road, Elwood, Vic.]
OUT OF IT ALL.
YOUNG LADY: “Oh, I’m sure you must have
had some awfully exciting experiences
over there."
BILL: “No, never got much chance, Miss.
I was up at the Front fighting all the
time."
One method employed by the Argus to
help the Phewsion to victory was the pub-
lishing of sensational accounts of attempted
assaults upon Phewsion supporters, and
other alleged crimes by Labor followers.
One yarn, published five days after the
alleged occurrence, was to the effect that
vitriol was thrown at a motor-car in which
Mrs. Maxwell, wife of the Fuse candidate
for Fawkner, was waiting outside the South
Melbourne Town Hall after a meeting, and
burned a hole in the driver’s coat. The
police at South Melbourne knew nothing
whatever about it, nor was it reported to
the C. I. Branch at Russell-street. At the
meeting in question a police sub-inspector,
four detectives and 15 John Hops were in
attendance, and none of them knew anything
of the sensational affair until it was “starred”
in the Argus five days later. Hughes in
his speeches made a point of waxing indig-
nant anent the vitriol-throwing habits of his
opponents, and the Argus states that the
“incident” lost many votes for Labor.
Another Argus yarn was that- Jowett.
Phewsion candidate for Maribyrnong and
his chairman had been stoned, the chairman
sustaining a gash four inches long in his
cheek. Two days after the election the
paper which is demanded of its conscience to
speak the truth, printed a letter from the
chairman, which began : “I am glad., in the
interests of fair play, - to contradict the
rumor that I was injured while acting as
chairman at Mr. Jowett’s meeting.” The
regrettable feature is that Phewsion. sup-
porters and the press should have mislaid
their love of fair play until after the polling.
[B. J. H. Owen/75 Glenhuntly Road, Elvvood, Vic.]
“Hamer” : The horrible old sport of hang-
ing has had a revival in N. S. Wales since
the formation of the National Government.
The Executive decided last week that James
Wilson, a hopeless degenerate by his appear-
ance, must hang for the murder of a cafe-
keeper in Sydney. No doubt it is on its
ability to march backward in this fashion
that the National Government bases its
claim to be “progressive.”
Speaking without bile Hughes informed
a reporter after the election that “Australia
had proved'worthy of the men of Pozieres
and Gallipoli.” This from the rancorous
little man looks fairly cheeky. Hughes should
fet into touch somehow with the men of
’ozieres and Gallipoli and find out just
how many of them voted against him.
There are a few hundred back in Australia,
and some well-chosen remarks about their
unworthiness of the country that proved
itself worthy of Phewsion might keep things
moving while the repatriation scheme
being dished up or fished up or whatever is
happening'to it.
“Wagga”: This is how Pat McGarry,
M.L.A., lately turned - Nationalist but still
anti-conscriptlonist, said a bit both ways for
the Senate Labor candidates during the
recent fight: “I know ’em well, they’re foine
min—the devil better. Watson is one of
them wowthers; Bolan’, he’s an anarchist,
and Rae, he’s an athiest. But I didn’t come
up to tell yez that.” A broth of a bhoy is
Pat!
The expected end has come to Neil Neil-
sen’s soft job In U.S., by the termination of
his appointment as representative of the N.
S. Wales Government. The office has been
costing the State £OOOO per anuum, so Neil-
sen (without his £4 a day) evidently had
some frills. There are a few other jobs that
the obliging Holman found for friends, etc.,
calling for the shears.
Politicians named “Bill” and “Joe” seem
to have an unholy partiality for each other
in these parts of the world. Massey and
Ward fused in Maoriland, and' now the
Commonwealth’s Joe and Bill have embraced
each other in the “tart shop.” The
Bulletin expects the proletariat to arise
and demand that at all future christenings
these names be bogus.
Robert Purnell, a wealthy coal-handler of
Newtown, Geelong.'s silvertail suburb, won
Bill Plain’s vacated seat in the Vie.
Assembly, after an easy canter around the
course in front of Laborite Thomas
McCormick. Some 8000 electors voted, Bob
getting 500 more than Tom. At the last
election (1014), Plain was returned unop-
posed as a Laborite, and in 1911 he polled
1500 ahead of the selected Liberal. In this
connection it is interesting to note that the
said selected Liberal was lawyer Alban
Morley. Shortly before the enlistment of
Ozanne, M.H.R. for Corio, which contains
the Geelong State electorate, Morley was
chosen as the Liberal candidate to oppose
Ozanne at the first opportunity; but as
soon as Ozanne joined up, Morley sportingly
withdrew from the contest. Since then
Morley’s name has never been mentioned in
connection with a Liberal selection. It was
evidently an offence to stand down for a
Laborite even if he was away winning the
war.
R. G. Nesbit, S.M., has caused a flutter
among South Australian hotelkeepers and
owners by a discovery he has made in the
Licensing Act. Coupling up one section with
another, he finds that, after two fines for
unlawfully supplying liquor, the license has
to be absolutely forfeited on a third offence,
and this no matter how many years have
elapsed between the three. The S.M. remarks
that this is “very drastic, and appears to
have. been overlooked by magistrates,
licensees and the general public.”
AT UNCLE'S FARM.
London, Wednesday.—The N. S. Wales Government
is issuing £3,000,000 of 5½ per cent, debentures at
the fixed price of 98. The amount has been under-
written.—Cable.
CHANTICLEER: “Behold, in answer to our
clarion call, the glorious suns arise
again."
Poor old “independent"’ candidate! This
time there were eleven of him —seven for the
Senate and four for the Reps. Several
boasted better-defined policies and a truer
Australian outlook than any of the party
men ; but every one of them was crushed so
flat that he lost his deposit. We have got.
down to “tank” politics all right.
WHERE CREDIT IS DUE.
VISITOR: “Oh, Mr. Stoney, I have enjoyed
your pictures so much. I think artists
deserve great credit."
MR. STONEY: “Yes, Miss, I'm sure we do;
hut we don't get it."
Only nine of the first Australian Senate
will remain at the old address after July 1.
Five of these are from Westralia —De
Largie, Henderson, Lynch, Needham and
Pearce. The others- are Milieu (N.S.W.),
Givens (Q.), Keating (Tas.) and Guthrie
(S.A.). Victoria has lost all of her original
six, and all of her original Reps, but two.
The anti-shouting crusade now being
pressed as a side-line in the off-season by the
Cold Tea crowd seems to be about the last
thing in plain futility. Booze may be all the
bad things it is accused of being; but the fact
that you can’t stop its use by introducing
a paltry scheme which even the dullest sort
of person can evade
as he pleases is clear
enough to suggest
that there must be
some deep-laid stra-
tegy behind the
clamor for “Jimmy
Woodserism.” Pos-
sibly the idea is that
by multiplying the
possibilities of law-
breaking for Bung
that unhappy person
may be more discred-
ited in the public
eye; and as a law
against shouting
would of necessity
be broken in every
pub some thousands
of times daily, the
reformers could go
out and cry at the
street corners: “See,
we have tried regula-
tion and you all
know how it has
failed!” This seems
the most reasonable
explanation of, a n
attempt by the ex-
perimental party to
push an alleged re-
form that they ought
to know is absurd
and unworkable. As
for the principle of
anti-shouting, it hits
hard at ordinary
social good feeling
and gets pretty close
to an attack at the
spirit of the men
who have fought and
are fight i n g our
battles. Mateship
exists in some form
in most lands; but
the tendency to run
in couples is more marked in Australia than
anywhere else,, and has played a definite part
in making the Australian character.
THE NEW RELIGION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A congregation which was bored simply could
not worship. How was congregational boredom to be
prevented? We heard much about brief, bright ser-
vices, but too many bright services meant a harlequin
in the pulpit and ragtime from the choir. By all
means let the services be as bright as it was possible
for human beings to make them. —New Moderator of
the Presbyterian Assembly.
Shun the sixty-minute sermon and the message drear
of doom;
Cease the everlasting harping on the nearness of the
tomb;
Open here and there a window, and let in the good
fresh air,
And don’t groan at “fellow-sinners’-’ when about to
offer prayer.
Oh, the modern type of parson he must never rant or
rail
If he wants to bash the Devil and tie hymn-books to
his tail;
For the modern congregation has got ragtime in its
bones,
And it hates the old salvation that is made of
threats and groans.
Let us change the mode of worship! Let us put the
thing to rights,
Stipulating that the singers must avoid the use of
tights;
And, of course, the preacher shouldn’t paint his nose
a brilliant red,
Or have whited limelight playing on his sleek and
reverend head.
While avoiding all such measures, we might somehow
yet contrive
To import some playhouse brightness and keep saint-
liness alivp;
But the wild, old-fashioned Devil he must plunge and
snort no more,
And we will not let him rattle heated hoofs upon
the floor!
Give the souls their soothing-syrup in a calm and
cultured way,
With some music that’s not ragtime, but is still
intensely gay;
Then impress upon old Satan that he may not howl
or scorch,
Or get firing penny rockets in the belfry or the
porch.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


PALING’S PIANOS
THE VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
The ban'slier of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument, which
everyone can play.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very fine Player indeed, at a most
moderate price. Ask for particulars.
THE ALL-BRITISH SAMES
PIANO. Model 105.
These pianos have a beautiful tone
quality and are handsomely designed.
Also Estey Organs.
• AND
Player Pianos.
These illustrations are but a few examples of the beautiful
Player Pianos and Pianos sold by us. In their various
grades they fulfil the utmost expectatiou.
Bach instrument has been specially selected by our experts
and embodies over half-a-century’s experience. Tone-
quality and durability aUe special features.
Any model can be purchased on our time-payment system
if desired, this makes it wonderfully easy to at once purchase
a high-grade fully-guaranteed piano or player piano.
If you cannot make it convenient to call at our Show Rooms
to inspect these delightful instruments, please write to-night
for our fully-illustrated Catalogue and particulars of our
easy terms. We will gladly post them to you.
W. H. PALING 8 CO. LTD.
338 Georg'e Street,
SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore 8 Toowoomba.
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
most artistic Player. Kxuuisite tone
quality and touch.
THE ESTEY PIANO. Model B.
Specially recommended for liot climates.
Stands in tune for very long: periods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Renowned throughout Australia for its
remarkable durability.
Everything Musical.
safeguard you* health
OrJ.Collis Browne's
Qknfa*
The Original and Only Genuine.
Til E REST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
and iu the Cough of BRONCHITIS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEUISII-
NKSS and effectually
•cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IK
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, 5/-.
Made, in Enylund.
%
i
il
Officers,
Musketry Instructors —
Surveyors, Prospectors, Sportsmen,
Will you test
this PocKet Range-Finder
for a week?
All you need do is to write for the Range-Finder,
enclosing your cheque or money order for £3 55., and we
will sena the instrument, complete in leather belt-case,
post free and fully insured, by return. If. after testing
it for seven days, you are not entirely satisfied and return
the instrument in good condition, we will refund your
money.
With the Hymans Pocket Range-Finder you can take the range of any object
within 2 per cent, of error, with a base of only 5 or 10 yards. Also, where the
height or width of object is known, operator need not even move when taking range.
This makes the instrument invaluable for rapid sea and river navigation, etc. No
technical knowledge is needed; range may be taken in a few seconds. The instrument
is of simple construction strong, weighs only 4 ounces, and can easily be carried
in the wdistcoat pocket.
IT HAS BEEN APPROVED BY AND SUPPLIED TO H.M. WAR OFFICE
and to upwards of 2000 individual officers.
Here is one of a large number of unsolicited Testimonials:—
“Will you please forward, three of your Range-Finders to
me at this address. The one we have had on test has bean
approved by everyone who has tried it. It is our intention
to provide each Company Commander with one.”
—The President Regimental Institute, .
THE POCKET
RANGE-FINDER
{PATENT No. U9.il 15).
PRICE,
including
Re<> d ‘ Post
full War-risk
Insurance,
£3-5-0
Send cheque to-day. or write for free descriptive leaflet to the Patentee and
Manufacturer —
CHAS. HYMANS, Dept. 21, CAMBRIDGE,
ENGLAND.
2 Necessaries
for Every
Household :
Cornwell s Extract of Malt
Cornwell's Pure Malt Vinegar
1. The best Tonic and Body-
builder for Children.
2. The most savory and purest
Malt Vinegar for Adults.
Obtainable All Grocers.
Stores.


The Hun armies seemingly have the choice
of being obliterated on the Hindenberg line
or retreating to a temporarily more salubr : ous
spot, so inspireth that wise spirit King
George IV. topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
df
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
gdf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
g
TheCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderf"* Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
FoON'D IN AnSTR MilA.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rinars in Oct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Ooal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Pnnrietor.
tx^c/ima
For Cuts and Bruises.
Valuable testimony comes from J. J. McFadden,
of Mulroy, Latimer Street, Rose Bay, Sydney, who
recently met with a nasty accident, receiving
several severe cuts and bruises on the face, which
did not yield to the usual remedies. He applied
Exzerma with wonderful results, the wounds rapidly
disappearing. Mr. McFadden is a motor mechanic
by trade, and cuts and bruises are a common occur-
rence. His invariable remedy now is Exzerma, and
he strongly advises Everyone to give it a trial. [2
All Chemists & Druggists, or
3. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 2/6
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Authof,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, lGth April, 1917.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL
COLLEGE.
Application for Entry as Cadet
Midshipman.
APPLICATIONS for entry into the Royal
Australian Naval College, Jervis Bay,
N.S W., as Cadet M ; dshipmen will be received
by. the Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Mel-
bourne, up to 30tli June, 1917, from Boys
born in 1904.
Forms of application and full particulars
may be obtained on application to the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne; or to
the—-
District Naval Officer, Brisbane.
District Naval Officer, Edgecliffe, Sydney.
District Naval Officer, Port Melbourne.
District Naval Officer, Birkenhead, S.A.
District Naval Officer, Fremantle, W.A.
District Naval Officer, Hobart, Tasmania.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the'Navv.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The quality of horseflesh competing over
Sydney suburban middle-distance handicaps was testi-
monialised on Saturday, when the Rajah of Pudu-
kota s Burradoo led all the way in Canterbury Park
Handicap and ended up with three lengths of day-
light between his hindquarters and the next nag.
This happened to be Foil, now nothing like as good
as when he was winning decent events at Randwick.
Burradoo was kicked to the front by his apprentice
pilot, Warne, as soon as the tapes allowed. At one
stage the Rajah’s colors were 10 lengths ahead of the
others, and when the top of the straight was reached
there was still a break of 20 yards in their favor.
Warne therefore pulled his whip and punched his
not-too-reliable mount all the way down the straight.
He was taking no risks, Burradoo having never pre-
viously shown a liking for a distance or an argu-
mentative finish. Burradoo won this event in just the
same manner as little Coat o’ Mail has appropriated
similar events. Both animals are trained at Rand-
wick by Dick O’Connor, who must have a secret for
stealing marches. ~
* * v * *
Over 12 months ago Quinn’s Post (imp.)
secured the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes at Randwick.
Between that time and last Saturday he had not
worried the judge. Quinn’s Post is trained at Can-
terbury Park, and it was there he annexed Flying
Handicaps. The occasional pommy was favorite, and
after the first furlong led all the time, to scramble
home by a little less than half a length from Asia
Minor, a gelding which threatens to be unlucky in
so far as place-getting is concerned. His last two
starts have been to just get beaten. Quinn’s Post is
a fine-looking animal, and now that he has managed
to secure some money for oats may decide to further
help towards the cost of living. He was indented by
his trainer, P. Keith, and is by Martagon from
Isabel May.
* * * #
Three years back the writer had an idea
that a colt named Algous, by Tartan —Alga, then in
Joe Burton’s stable, would be pretty good. The colt
had his first run in a maiden event at Warwick Farm,
and although left lengths at the start wound up close
to the winner. But he never did anything on the
flat. On Saturday he won the second hurdle race of
his career. This was at Canterbury Park. The first
win was at Wagga a few weeks ago. Algous wasn’t
favorite on Saturday, but the fact didn’t prevent him
from winning with the bit between his teeth by eight
lengths from Compromise, which two weeks earlier
secured Moorefield Hurdle Race on a protest against
Kinlarlc. The latter was favorite on Saturday, but
made a holy show of himself.
* * * #
Norbury was expected by the hard-headed.
fraternity to take Newcastle Cup. No horse worked
better at Randwick during the week preceding the
race, and on the course he was solidly backed from
14’s down to B’s. All Norbury’s performances have
been away from Sydney, and among his good deeds
was second to Bazetta in last Armidale Cup, seven
furlongs. On the day following that defeat he
downed Bazetta. Norbury was prepared for New-
castle by Jimmy Barden, and was steered by the
trainer’s son. Probably the best performance in the
race was that of Secret Service, who lumped 9st. 21b.
into third place.
* * # *
“X”: Meeting with an accident in his pad-
dock at Dandenong (Vic.) the other day, the ancient
racing-pony Tommy the Nut was put out of his
misery with the aid of a friendly revolver. Thus
ended the career of a well-known performer with a
goodly list of wins to his credit. For many years
Tommy held the record pony prize, a member’s
handicap of £125. The old fellow (he had just
turned 32) started earning his corn as a two-year-old,
his first owner giving the then stiff price of £42 for
him.
* * * *
The tote has weighed out a rather remark-
able series of fat dividends in connection with the
S.A.J.C. Fisher Stakes, won by Scots Jean (a Pistol
mare) at the recent meeting. Martagon in 1900 paid
£67 Bs. In 1902 backers of Lome received £6l
18s.; Barr paid £2l 12s. in 1904 ; Masher £l5 16s.
the year following; Spinaway, £lO 13s. in 1906;
and Fiction, in 1909, £2l 12s. Five years ago
Phormio, who ran second to Braw Scot, paid £l3 19s.
* * * *
Scobie has been visiting Adelaide for Cup
meetings for 30 years, and Bobby Lewis for 20, but
they have seldom cleaned-up things more effectually
than last week. A. E. Hamilton’s Bourlang won the
Goodwood Handicap for S.A., but Lewis had a run
of three in the events not handicaps. Scobie’s own
Seabound won the S.A. Stakes (two-year-old) from
Hawker’s Mareca (much better fancied) ; Falkiner’s
Stageland took the Leger in a small field; finally
Mrs. Hawker’s handsome Cyklon, being in the right
humor, ran away from everything at weight for age,
Gold Cuffs being a bad second, but equally superior
to the rest. The Adelaide Cup was for once a really
good thing. Handicapped largely on his Sydney Cup
form, Timms’s Green Cap had for several weeks
stood out from the field on paper,- and when the
time came he did it on turf. He carried top weight,
9st. 61b., and did the mile-and-five-furlongs in record
time, 2min. 48tsee. Gold Cuffs, well backed, was
again in the unsatisfactory position of being an easy
winner if the actual winner had been away. It
was Lewis’s third Adelaide Cup, Eyeglass having
brought him home in 1911 and again the next year,
and Scobie’s fourth. J. Timms had starters in three
races, put up a different jockey each time, and vron
the treble.
* * » *
“Pungawerewere”: It took my memory
back a good many years when I read the other day
that John Marshall, of Auckland (M.L.). was giving
up racing—at least temporarily—through ill-health.
1-Ie has owned track horses for about 30 years in the
northern city. and is one of the whitest men at the
game. Amongst the best of nags which ever ran
in his name was that brilliant mare Necklace. She
and three other good horses, Thunderbolt, Derringer
and Turquoise, were raced by a syndicate of four,
Marshall, Tom Morrin (who, I believe, died not long
since in America),'James Dickey and Pierce Lanigan
(the contractor who built the Calliope Dock). That
was about 30 years ago. Morrin and Lanigan were
amongst the original shareholders of the Sylvia Park
stud, the proprietors of which secured the famous
stallion Musket, then obscured in the wilds of the
Waikato, no one dreaming at that time of the fame
he was to bring to the horse-breeding industry of
Maoriland. Sylvia was one of the first mares bought
by the new co., and she, mated with Musket, produced
the celebrated Martini-Henry, winner of the V.R.C.
Derby and Melbourne Cup. Necklace, a daughter of
M'-sket ard Locket, won any number of races in
M.L., including the Dunedin Jockey Club and Forbury
Handicaps, and ran second to Nelson for the Dunedin
Cup. She was trained by the veteran John Chaafe,
who rode in races about Svdney in the early days.
Amongst the horses John Marshall raced on his own
account was Necklet, winner of the Maribyrnong
Plate in 1888. It is characteristic of his liberality
that, being about to retire, he should give his horses
away. In this wav F. Stenning, his present trainer,
will secure Pearl Necklet and General Joffre.
* • * *
Reason is beginning to prevail at last
about race meetings in Maoriland, and the list of
meetings is to be carved down. The Government
should operate with a firm hand in the interests of
military service, the protection of the public and
ordinary decency. The idea that the restriction of
racing within reasonable compass means a concession
to wowserdom has prevailed far too long. If Maori-
lan4 is unable to get enough racing on, say, a
dozen racecourses, someone ought to inquire into
the reason, with a view to putting the remaining
score or two of tracks to better use. There is talk
about one result of fewer meetings being the transfer
of numerous prads to Australia. This may be so.
If it is Maoriland will lose nothing that cannot
be easily spared, and Australia will gain nothing the
Commonwealth would not be just as well without.
The volume of racing and betting in Maoriland has
for many years been out of all proportion to what
public policy should tolerate.
* * * *
The gelding Hopfield, a brilliant miler who
won at Randwick and Sydney suburban courses last
year and was subsequently sold to Maoriland, is
being put to hurdles over yonder. If he retains any
of his old pace between the places where he might
fall down Hopfield ought to escape catching a chill
anyway.
* # * *
“Merrigal”: Here are some more samples
of old-time N.S.W. endurance horses. Jack
Jones, of Merrigal, on a Little - John get,
rode the 90 miles from there to Cobbora
in eight and a half hours. Alec Black, of
Buttabone, on Darkie, covered the 100 miles separat-
ing him from Dubbo between sparrow-bark and nest-
time. Bay Adelaide transferred Sam Meirs from
Dick’s Camp to Dubbo, 60 miles (Irish at that), in
five hours. Hobart Pasha, with George Foley aboard,
travelled from Collie to Dubbo, 120 miles, in 11
hours. Tom Egan, with Daniel Canieron, of Buddah
Lake, Trnngie, to keep him from going to sleep
(Egan will go to sleep while you’re talking to him),
drove a pair of prads from Dubbo to Mount Harris,
107 miles, between dawn and sundown ; and Jim E.
Tonkin, once M.L.A. for Bathurst, piloted his five-
shilling purchase, Toby, with buggy attached, from
that pitch to Wellington and back, 200 miles, in
48 consecutive hours.
* * * *
“Nemo”: The Derby and Oaks coursing
fixture at Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) recently was as
full of surprises as a schoolgirl is of giggles.
- Favorite dogs went down with great regularity, and
there was much nasal rejoicing in Canaan over the
finest exposition of coursing seen for years. At the
first calling of the card Wild King was favorite for
the Derby, with Brown Hope so strong a tip for the
Oaks that outside of her a punter could almost name
his own price. Brown Hope promptly went down in
the first round before My Jewel, who lasted till the
third ties. The winner turned up in Symo, about
whom 50 to 1 • was mentioned at the calling of the
card. The Derby favorite, Wild King, lasted till the
third round was* reached, when the turn saw the flag
raised against him by Comedy Chief. Had Wild
King not experienced three very severe falls in his
course against Grand Crystal on the second day he
probably would have won the stake. He was so
sore from the knocking about that when he met
Comedy Chief he could scarcely raise a gallop.
Comedy Chief,’ who eventually won the stake, is a
fawn-and-white puppy of more than average size,
whelped in October, 1915. The runner-up, Mick
Barden, a Roman-nosed black dog, was the outsider
in every course he ran. Someone must have cleaned
up a tidy bit with him.
The meeting was also remarkable for the terrific
slaughter of the hares, 26 being killed. They were
too fat to run away to safety. The loss of these well-
nourished animals knocked the idea of running the
Australian Waterloo Cup meeting there next month
on the head. The Waterloo will have to be decided at
Werribee (Vic.).
* * * *
Frank Hewitt, an old-time professional
champion ped., finished the 73rd lap last
week. He, with Bird and Topley, arrived
in Melbourne on December 16, ’69, under
George Coppin’s management, and made his
first appearanc e on Melbourne Cricket Ground, March
5 and 7, ’7O, his opponent being an amateur (a
saddler by trade), one J. G. Harris. The 100, 150,
200, 300, 440 honors were evenly divided, Harris
winning two, Hewitt two, the fifth (300) was a
dead-heat.
* * * *
“W.A.M.”: Bill was hard at it in the
snow to-day struggling with a bit of timber (pinched
from an engineer’s dump) a few yards from his
dugout, when he heard one of the Huns’ H.E. shells
coming over. He sprinted for the cellar, but -the
going wasn’t good. The shell beat him badly and
blew the happy home skvhigh, while the runner was
at a safe distance. Bill tcok a long breath. “Thank
Gawd,” he said, “I ain’t Postle!”
* * * *
“Victo”: Heel-and-toe? Well, my uncle,
in 1888, walked from Back-creek station, outside
Trunkey, leaving there at 10 Monday morning, to
Rigsdals homestead on Sydney road near Goulburn,
arriving there at six Tuesday evening. Total, 108'
miles in 32 hours. And mother recalls that when
she was eight years old the familv in Queensland
walked 90 miles in 12 days, and arrived in civilisa-
tion three days before her brother was born, and
granny was none the worse for the exercise either.
“The Immature Male”: A few weeks ago
the battered old town of El Arish (Abdul s late
stronghold on the jSinai Peninsula) seemed as far
and inaccessible as Berlin. But things move swiftly
these days, and under Routine Orders Billjim was
warned that “owing to dangerous currents, surf-
bathing in the vicinity of El Arish would be for-
bidden if troops ventured more than 25 yards from
the shore.” The brown surfers borrowed a lot of leg-
ropes from the camelry, made a rough life-line and
presently the breakers were full of men wearing only
identification discs, as the quarter-master s stores
didn’t include any neck-to-knees. It is considered
quite the .thing for the ladies and gentlemen of
surrounding villages to promenade along the shores
of Tina Bay and watch Billjim having a dip between
battles.
* * * *
Bessie Grandmange, one of the Botany
family of sprinters, fled over 220yds. on Saturday
before the watch had got beyond 29 4-ssec., thus chip-
ping a tick off the best time previously registered by a
woman. But Bessie didn’t do this in a pair of gaudy
high-heeled boots and with a lot of wild animal’s
skin hung round her neck, nor was she tied up in
corsets or wearing a collection of vegetables and
poultry skewered on top of her head. She wore her
brother’s spiked shoes and a sprinters garment, all
of which, of course, detracts from the merit of an
otherwise remarkable performance. What this page
yearns to hear about is the sample of the feminine
gender who in ordinary marching kit can run 220
yards in less than 30 minutes without fainting in the
first lap, and demanding to know if her blouse fits
at the neck.
* • # *
“Yarra Ben”: One of the sports who
rolled up to enlist in the Sportsmen’s Thousand in
Melbourne a day or two ago described himself as an
“urger and guesser.” The definition puzzled the
enlisting-officer, who requested further particulars.
The would-be soldier thereupon explained that he
was a racecourse “professional,” who guessed pro-
bable winners and urged other people to back them.
The recruit got through all right, but not on his
turf credentials. He happened to be an expert sculler
as well as a guesser and urger.
* * # *
Thus a Seotchbyterian at Sydney the other
day, orating to the brethren about imposing upon
all amusements the condition that they must be
“without sin” and “without excess”: “Then there
was prize-fighting, erroneously called boxing. The
police told him that the thing was disgusting. The
language of the patrons was blasphemous, and the
air reeked with impurity. It allowed free play to
the lowest passions in the human nature. It was
creating a wrong impression of heroism, and was
producing shirkers without number.” This would
be fairly hot stuff coming from anyone who knew
anything about his subject. Coming from a. man
whose stock of information depends upon what he
was told by an anonymous John Hop, it misses the
mark by a mile. Boxing is as legitimate a form
of pastime as a bun-devouring competition. There
may be many harsh things to say at times about
some of its aspects, but it seems to this writer that
saying them with a fulness of knowledge is better
business than yelling a lot of uncorroborative trash.
To say that “the language of the patrons is blas-
phemous and the air reeks with impurity” is as
wildly absurd as the further remark that “boxing
produces shirkers without number.” Where is the
evidence of this? The Rev. Mr. McTavish has got
a bee in his bonnet! There is more blasphemy to
be heard in an hour in the vicinity of a political
meeting during periods of public excitement than
can be detected at the Sydney Stadium in a month —
the air of many places where men labor at tasks
which minister to the comfort and convenience of
Mr. McTavish reeks with an impurity that all the
disinfectants on earth would not remove. Mr.
McTavish is listening with the wrong ear, or a John
Hop has been pulling his leg.
* * * *
When Greek met Greek in the Spartan
days of old at the trial of skill and strength there
was something to excite the populace of Athens to
take a holiday, but when Mexico met Ould Oireland
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday, represented by Mr.
Benny Palmer and Mr. Matt Murphy respectively,
there was nothing to excite anything except a hope-
fulness that they would not transpire any more. Mr.
Murphy’s reserves of wallop were too far behind the
firing-line, and as the Mexican dropped a barrage
they got no further. When in the 17th round the
neighbor of Uncle Sam violently pushed a sleeping-
draught under Matt’s chin and the weary youth asked
for no more, somebody noticed that the war was over.
It was Benjamin’s first win in Australia.
* * * *
A further instalment of the Sid Godfrey-
Wave Geike serial was presented at Brisbane on
Saturday. It was a one-sided affair. Godfrey
sprawled tli# stolid Geike for nine in the thirteenth
melee and infected him with the staggers during the
,next two. • Then the referee seasoned justice with
mercy, and passed Sid the verdict. As Waverlev con-
tracted a wife only the week before, a couple of
friends went home with him to prove his identity.
* * IT *
Another of the Old Brigade of East
Melbourne cricketers has gone home. Dan Wilkie
was one of four brothers all of whom were prominent
players. Originally a slow round-arm bowler, he was
provoked by the doings of Chris. Tinley, the Eng-
lishman, to bowl underhand, and soon became an
exoert in the delivery of lobs. In the 10 years, from
’65 to ’75, he secured 515 wickets at an average of
7.95. In one match against Northern Tasmania he
took 18 wickets for 28 runs. He also played against
N. S. Wales. Wilkie was a good hitter, and scored
the first century (124) ever made for East Mel-
bourne. When not playing or talking cricket he
pursued Costs.
* # * *
“0.K.”: The present generation of Mel-
bourne knew not Dan Wilkie as the famous lob
bowler and batsman who won matches for East Melb.
50 yeai’s ago, but he was widely known as,a rather
severe-looking and well-gmomed citizen who walked
about town with a swelling of fat —a huge swelling
at the last —on the right side of his iaw\ The lump
had been growing more and more unsightlv for about
a quarter of a century, and it was naturally supposed
to be an unavo ; dable' disfigurement—something that
couldn’t be safely removed. At length developments
made it advisable to risk the knife. The operation
proved to be quite a simple matter, and -two days
after being relieved of his ancient burden the patient
was sitting up. But he was already a man of 70-odd
—much older than he looked —and the shock of the
belated operation and the incidental dieting were too
much. He gradually weakened and died within two
or three months.
* * * *
J. M. Jamieson, of Junee (N.S.W.), killed
in action with the A.I.F. in trance, was one of the
Ma State’s crack rifleshots, and frequently com-
peted on the mounds at championship meetings in
other States. He won the first stage of the King’s at
Bisley (Eng.) in 1914.
“Tam o’ Shanter” : There’s no use talking
about the distance to aim in front of a hurrying
Sunday dinner if you don t know your gun. Com-
paratively the speed of guns vary from Donaldson's
pace to that of George Reid’s. The best rule to
follow is to find what your cannon can do, allow
accordingly, and don’t depend on mathematics or the
Religious Editor.
* # » *
“Eryander”: I cannot controvert “Cylin-
der” (B. 10/5/’ 17) about the shot-speed claimed by
cartridge-makers, but the figure I gave is set forth
in Gardiner’s “Ballistics,” Tranter's “Ratios of Pro-
pulsion,” and elsewhere, as the mean result of a
long series of experiments. As regards comparison
with rifle-bullet speed, it is theoretically quite possi-
ble for the lighter projectile to have a higher initial
velocity than the heavier. A cork thrown hard from
the hand would travel the first few yards much
faster than would a stone of the same size, though
the stone could be thrown 10 times as far as the cork.
The well-known authority, J. J. Dougall, in Shoot-
ing, writes: “A carrier-pigeon can fly four miles five
furlongs in four minutes; about 102 ft. a second.
With a distance of 40 yards, the aim taken at a
bird crossing the shooter at that speed should be
more than five feet in advance, the flight of the
shot to that distance requiring l-19th of a second.”
As for the speed of the black-cheek, he differs only-
in color from the peregrine, and the latter —the
ascertained fastest of all birds —has been timed,
when making his dash, at up to 130 ft. a second; a
rate of over 88 miles an hour.
* * * *
“Alfonso” : Now then, stop fishing for
those sardines and bring your lines over here to the
Western rivers of N. S. Wales. A few ordinary
samples of what may happen: In ’93 a farmer named
Lake, then living at Dripstone, near Wellington,
hauled a giant from the Macquarie. It weighed
841 b. About eight years ago writer saw a 511 b.
fish caught near Wellington by a man from Orange.
The fish at that stage occupied a cornsack, its tail
protruding from one end, and its head from the
other. Thirty years ago writer saw two fish (481 b.
and 521 b.) caught in the Abercrombie. Although
fish of 201 b. and thereabouts are fairly common
catches in these rivers (I caught one of
221 b. last week), there are very few fish of excep-
tional size captured nowadays. The reason, I think,
is the increased use of nets by greedy and impatient
fishermen. If people persist in this practice, which,
by the way, is prohibited in these rivers, there will
soon hardly be a decent-sized fish left in the fresh-
water streams. Eight or ten summers ago fish up
to 1001 b. were not uncommon. The writer has some
fairlv-correct, though otherwise inadequate, reports
of numerous fish of this weight caught in the
Murrumbidgew ’ These he knows not to be phantom
fish. Several times such monsters have been sus-
pended for show in front of fish-shops in Wagga.
There is no great variety of fish in our streams,
but it is doubtful whether a better fish than our
fresh-water cod can be found anywhere in the world.
The catfish is a long way ahead of the salt-water
cat, provided his overcoat is removed before cook-
ing. But the useless, bony, bait-robbing carp is a
thing accursed.
* # # *
“F. J.”: The reminiscences of these sprat-
catchers at the ’Awkesbury make me tired. What
do they do to fill in time waiting for the next bite?
If you want real fishing tie yourself to a heating
apparatus and some whusky and get over to the Bluff,
in Maoriland, and see about blue cod. This inhabi-
tant of the wet can only be caught by handline.
One time when it happened to be fine over yonder
for a week, we steamed 25 miles to the cod grounds
and back o’ nights. For six consecutive days five
of us totalled 7 tons of fish. Why do these bream
and whiting trappers talk so much instead of catch-
ing something ?
* * * • ♦
“Boro-Belle”: For the most eiciting of
moonlight sports let me nominate turtle-stalking in
North Queensland. The track can be anywhere along
the milky-white beaches of the coastal towns within
the Great Barrier Reef. The first event generally
starts just about an hour before high water, when
the turtles generally emerge from the sea and waddle
gingerly up the beach to lay eggs. A real heavy-
weight would turn the scales at anything from a
quarter to half a ton, and would require at least three
pairs of hands to turn it over. Even then the effort
is great. A Malieoola islander of my acquaintance
slipped, while trying the job alone, and the forward
whack from the turtle’s flapper broke his arm, and
the return movement shifted his nose to the back of
his head. Of the two species of turtle to be found
in the north the shell-turtle has the highest commer-
cial value, and rarely goes over 4cwt., while the
big greenback, from which the soup is made, goes to
nearlv three-quarters of a ton.


-
Deep Breathing is the
Vital Force of Life
The Passport to Good Health.
It is oxygen that gives the blood its sparkling redness —
the body its warmth and energy—that makes it possible
for the food we eat to be transformed into bone, muscle and
tissue.
Since it is the duty of the lungs to supply the blood with
oxygen, deep breathing should be the foundation of eveiy
system of exercise.
A great majority of people are shallow chested sufferers
from oxygen starvation —and yet they wonder why they are
fatigued, depressed, under weight—why their vital organs
fail in their duty.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my
POSTAL COURSE of HEALTH
and STRENGTH CULTURE
are most modern, efficient and successful.
They build up weak chests by strengthening the lungs,
developing the muscles supporting the chest walls, broaden-
ing the shoulders, and making you breathe in a natural way.
The exercises you receive will be those most suitable for
your individual physique, just as the particulars you furnish
tell me you require.
I have written a book entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells all about my methods,
fees, etc. It will be sent to your address on request; Just
write your name and address across this advertisement and
post it to me. I will know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
610 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
fdg
Try This Dry Cell
IF you need current to ring
bells; to operate telephones
or signals; light lanterns or
portable lights—if you need cur-
rent to run a gas engine or a
tractor, a motor car or a motor boat —
you should try Columbia Batteries.
Colmnbia
Batteries
are all-round utility batteries which
can be used for either heavy or light
work. Columbia Batteries have higher
voltage and amperage than wet cells.
No liquid to spill; no glass jars to break.
Designed to meet local conditions.
They are durable and dependable—
protected by moisture-proof cartons.
Packed to reach their
destination in first-class
condition.
df
Dealers : I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
"Carbon Cleveland ”
She 1 -!;
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS.
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
OIKUh Imperial 03 Co. U 4
SAMSON HORNS.
gfd
Every Motorist Wants a Good Horn, and they
get it in the “SAMSON,” which can be used
in five different positions.
No. 35 “ Samson-Tiger” (11" over all), 25/- each
No. 36 “Samson-Tiger” (Motor-cycle), 24/6 each
No. 45 “Samson-Uon” over all), 21/- each
No. 46 “ Samson-Uon ” (Motor-cycle), 21/- each
The above Hand Horns Post Free anywhere in
Australasia. Vibrator and Motor Horns from
16 /.. Ask for Catalogue No. 3008.
RAMSAY SHARP & CO. LTD,
217 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Write tor Arvoointment as District Agent.
The Architect The Surveyor I'd Irtl V)f n
saves time, and ke> ps in
closer touch with his work
covers more ground,
does a bigger day’s work
has all Austr ilia as a
market for his labour
gets there qaic'.cer,
mi tea mjra cans
---
Have You Thought
How Valuable the
sndim
might be in your Profession, Business or Trade?
Catalogue “D” with Pleasure.
8; 18
g
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd.. 109-113
SYDNEY : Miiledge Bros., 156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide
and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE : Eyes & Crowle Ltd.. 75-79 Pirle Street.
LAUNCESTON : John King & Sons Ltd . Charles Street.
PtRTH : Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency, Hay s.reet.
PATON
msmsmasammumm.
|HfP
*>■'rTTl
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Jail Mills,
lube Mills,
etc.
Wi ite for Particulars and Quotations,
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
YOUR FOOTWEAR!
If comfort, smart styles and great service-
ability appeal to you in footwear, you will be
highly pleased with
RIGNEY SHOES.
We illustrate a Patent Calf Oxford Shoe,
with Wing Cap and latest perforations. A
smart, made-to-order style.
Price - - 32/6
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf, same
price.
Postage 9d. extra.
/
fd
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
jfSfe
Evermore
Smile
::6rrsTH &:■
!HB!I
gdf
You know this smile—but do you knotv-
'xßße
EVERMORE
■**»'*'
STROPPER
Price 15/~
The only automatic Stropper
which sves the true SlyS-Stroke
so essential in any
raTpr.
Special adapters are provided
with each Stropper joc the.
sharpening of any make of
safety -ra?or blade both sinpJe
and double ec^ed.
i HI nit
m
'..red
Arrows skjvj
OtAGOHA
Rato
m
re N-
GOING JXJWNp
a>r Aw "theft
Lai} hand pgits v.::.:!S;' :
l Ask YburDeahr:
to Demonstrate k
Do Med
Arrows 5W
DIAGOHAL
g
if unprocurable write Gmo: Sydney
OR. &OX 14 <3 P D|f AUCKLAND . Iff NEW ZEALAND *>


SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
T HE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage aiul the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public -Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power iu internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent. . .
For- further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
Why Look Old ?
You need not use hair dye to conceal grey hair.
Grey hair adds years to anyone’s appear-
ance. The objections to dyeing the hair are
too numerous and too obvious to mention
hew people are aware that a simple, old-
iashioned recipe, that can be made up at
home, will quickly turn grey hair back to a
natural color without injuring the hair 'in
any way. One has only to get two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite from the chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum
With a small sponge apply the lotion' to the
hair for a few nights and the desired change
vvill have been neatly accomplished. This
simple formula has given great satisfac-
tion for generations to those in possession of
it.—AdVT. rq
BELLEVUE
The only Hotel
overlooking
HOTEL, the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is mder the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNIOAX
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
WAWN’S
Wonder-Wool
STOPS PAIN.
Wawn’a Wonder Wool is a scientifi-
cally-proccsscd form of Cotton Wool,
the fibres of which after being:
specially treated are thoroughly im-
pregnated with unique medicinal
essences whose pain-relieving virtues
and soothing effects are immediately
felt when applied to all pains caused
by congestion of the blood, such as
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout,
Lumbago, Chilblains, etc.
All nervous ailments like Neuritis,
Neuralgia, Toothache, Headache and
ail diseases of the Throat, Chest and
Lungs, including
PNEUMONIA, BRONCHITIS
and COMMON COLDS
are immediately dispelled and ulti-
mately cured by the delightful
warmth and stimulating prooerties
with which Wawn’s Wonder Wool is
charged.
Place it where the pain is and the
Pam stops.
As a means of producing a sensation
of restful comfort Wawn’s Wonder
Wool has no equal.
The secret of Wawn’s Wonder Woo’
is its stimulating action on the blood,
the congestion of which in any one
part causes pain.
By quickening the circulation of the
blood (instantly recognised bv the
pleasant tingling sensation it sets up)
Wawn’s Wonder Wool enables the
blood to resume its normal flow—the
congestion disappears and with it
all inflammation and pain.
For Bronchitis, Asthma,
Catarrh, Quinsey, Coughs
Colds, it is an invalu-
able remedy.
Wawn’s Wonder Wool, sold
oy all chemists and stores,
2/-; or posted direct from
___ the proprietor, 2/-
UROSAL —completely dissolves
brie Acid, 2/6; or direct from the
proprietor, 2/6.
V. A. WAWN,
Manufacturing Chemist,
(Crigar’s Pharmaay),
186 George Street North,
SYDNEY.
BENDIGO AMALGAMATED
GOLDFIELDS NO LIABILITY
CAPITAL - £500,000 divided into 2,000,000 shares of 5/- each.
The whole of the shares to be issued for cash have been underwritten.
Provisional Directors:
L. V. LANSEEL, Mine Owner, Bendigo.
H. M. LEGGO, Merchant, Bendigo.
W. ANGLISS, Exporter, Melbourne
E. 0. DYASON, Mining Engineer
Bendigo.
(Two Directors to be appointed.)
Hankers:
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
Brokers:
NEW SOUTH WALES— VICTORIA—
FURNER & BROWNIIILL, 117 Pitt Street, WARD & CO., 383 Collins Street, Melbourne—
Sydney. and all Members of recognised Stock Exchanges
in Victoria.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— QUEENSLAND—
LAURIE & HODGETTS, Grenfell Street, Adelaide. CORRIE k CO., 127 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA— WESTERN AUSTRALIA—
W. STENNARD, Stock Exchange, Hobart. CLARKE & CO. (A. Rutter Clarke), St. George’s
11. HAWKINS, Stock Exchange, Hobart. Terrace, Perth.
Solicitors:
F. DOUGLAS JONES, Bendigo. ARTHUR PHILLIPS, Melbourne.
Auditors:
J. H. CRAIG. F.C.P.A., Bendigo. A. CAPPER MOORE, F.C.P.A., Melbourne.
Provisional Managing Director:
E. C. DYASON, B.Sc., 8.M.E., Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
Legal Manager (pro tern.) and Head Office:
J. G. STANFIELD, F.C.P.A., Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
Melbourne Representative (pro tem.):
NORMAN PICOT (Edward Dyason Pty. Ltd.), Equitable Building, Melbourne.
The following Companies have agreed to amalgamate
Carlisle North Garden Gully and Passby United Gold
Mines Co. N.L.
The Catherine Reef United Claimholders Gold Mining
. Co. N.L.
Clarence United Co. N.L.
The Collmann and Tacchi’s Freehold Mining Co.
N.L.
Confidence Extended Coy. N.L.
Constellation Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Cornish United Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Derby Reef Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Garden Gully United Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Golden. Age Quartz Mining Co. N.L.
Golden Pyke Quartz Mining Co. N.L. <
Great Extended Hustlers Reef Quartz Mining Co.
N.L.
Great Northern Co. N.L.
The Hercules & Energetic Co. N.L.
The Hustlers Reef Quartz Mining and Drainage Co.
N.L.
The Ironbark Co. N.L.
The Johnson’s Reef Gold Mines Co. N.L
Koch’s Pioneer Quartz Mining and Crushing Co N
The Murchison Gold Mining Co. N.L
The New Argus Gold Finding Co. N.L.
New Moon Co. N.L.
North Johnson’s Reef Quartz Mining Co • N L
Pearl Co. 'LL.
The Princess Dagmar Gold Mining Co: N.L.
The Sea Gold Mining Amalgamated Co. N.L
Sheepshead Mining Co. N.L.
South Garden United Mining Co. N.L.
South Virginia Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Specimen Hill United Gold Mining Co.
Suffolk United Co. N.L.
United Hustlers & ltedan Co. N.L.
Unity Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Victoria Consols Mining Co. N.L.
Victory & Pandora Amalgamated Co. N.L.
Virginia Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Williams United Gold Mining Co. N.L.
Windmill Hill Gold Mining Co. N.L.
N.L.
“....Within this area (i.e., ‘Central Area’) there are nine distinct lines of reefs, giving
a, total length of 25j miles to operate upon within the boundaries of the leases ’held at
present
Extract from Report by W. H. C'undy, Mining and Geological Surveyor.
PROSPECTUS may be obtained from the COMMONWEALTH R\\ T rc mr
AUSTRALIA : or from the COMPANY’S BROKERS and EDWARD DYASON FTT
LTD., Equitable Building, Melbourne, and Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
“The Bendigo Goldfield —Resources of the Central Area,”
Edward Dyason Pty.. Ltd., Equitable Building Melbourne, and
by V. Pabst, post free on application to
Commonwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
Elder, Smith & Co., Limited,
General Merchants, Importers & Exporters .
Special Department for /Vleta/s and Ores.
Head Office: Adelaide. Branches throughout South Australia, and
at Broken Hill and Wentworth, N.S.W.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: Queensland Building:, 84-88 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE.
PERTH AGENTS: ELDER, SHENTON & CO., LIMITED.
LONDON OFFICE: “Portland House,” 73 BASINGHALL STREET, E.C.
fdg
The Self-filling
Safety fountain
Pen
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
1/6 ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market Street,
Sydney; A. P. MILLER 8 SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
SN
wt
m
t.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Profits on Writ-
Pro- Property ten Re-
fits. - Sales. Dividends. Off. serves.
July, 1909..£2211 £l6l 8 p.c. =£1912 —£20,351
Jill)., 1910.. 2319 294 8 „ „ 1912 21052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 „ „ 1912 £5Ol 22,111
Jan., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 „ „ 1912 23,584
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 „ „ 1912 26,008
Jan., 1912.. 2714 2956 9i „ „ 2231 29.447
July, 1912.. 3132 859 8 „ „ 2294 31,144
119500 Reserves transferred ttTCapital. . 21,584
Jan., 1913.. 3038 486 8 p c.= 2294 22,814
July, 1913. . 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23.879
Jan., 1914.. 3295 423 8 ~ ~ 2294 25.303
July, 1914.. 3471 778 8 „ „ 2294 27.258
Jan., 1915.. 3612 360 8 „ „ 2294 28,936
July, 1915.. 3400 139 10 „ „ 2868 29,607
Jail., 1916.. 3622 —lO „ „ 2868 30.361
July, 1916.. 3268 360 10 „ „ 2868 31,121
Jan.; 1917.. 3304 —lO „ „ 2868 31,557
About three-fifths of the capital was written
off; but, as it turned out, the writing-off was
a bit too severe, so that when the assets
were subsequently sold fair profits were
available for reserves. That makes the 10
p.c. dividend possible, notwithstanding that
there is only £33.620 of deposits and other
money belonging to the public in the busi-
ness. Practically everything is now out in
advances, as the following comparison
shows: —
. , July, ’Ol. Jan.,’l6. July,’l6. Jan.,’l7.
Liabilities ..£37,015 £37,768 £35,225 £33,620
Advances .. 19,998 117,226 119,251 118,251
Foreclosures . . 72,305 7,937 3,780 3,765
Cash, etc. . . 2,778 3,192 3,540 3,487
Because the deposits are so small by com-
parison .with the assets, the depositors’
security is excellent; and for the same reason
the shareholders’ risks are comparatively
small. But it seems very doubtful whether
under normal conditions it will be possible
to pay the present dividend and put by a
decent pmount for contingencies unless the
co. can get' hold of more business—which,
of course, means taking more risks with
other people’s money. And the chances of
active building-society business for some
years to come don’t look brilliant.
* * * *
The late Mount Morgan D’Arcy appears
to have been the first Britisher to invest
money in the Persian oil industry. He
acquired concessions from the Shah’s Govern-
ment, and was said to have spent £20,000 in
what threatened to be fruitless endeavors to
develop the property. When lie was moon-
ing around London with his Persian white
elephant on his hands he met Greenaway,
a man who, knew the game and had been
instrumental in ousting the Standard Oil
Trust from India. His negotiations with
DArey resulted in the Burmah Oil Co.
(whereof Greenaway was a director) acquir-
ing a two-thirds interest in the Persian spec.
The Anglo Persian Oil Co. was formed, and
the late Lord Strathcona induced the
British Government to take rather more
than a half share in the concern, on the
understanding that the Navy was to have
first call on the oil supplies as soon as they
should be available. As things w r ere going
before the war it seemed practically certain
that Germany would eventually have been
in a position to take over those oil wells.
The Deutscher Bank had some splendid land
concessions in Asia Minor, and the scheme
was and is, to have German colonies along
the Bagdad Railway route, with the ultimate
capture of Mesopotamia in view. The
acquiescence of the Young Turk party in
Bank policy can be seen in
the fight which the Turks are putting up in
opposition to the British advance, now that
it has reached as far as Bagdad. Germany
and Turkey will stand or fall together in
Asia Minor, and it is Turkey that will stand
practically all the- loss of life.
* * * *
According to V. S. Shallcross, who read a
paper before the recent Kalgoorlie confer-
ence, the abuse of booze was the cause of
much of the wastage and inefficiency in
the Westralinn mining industry. He
gave a couple of illuminating instances.
Out of 000 men employed underground in the
Great Boulder during the first quarter of
this year, an average of 34 absented them-
selves for three days after each fortnightly
pay. At the now idle Kyarra mine. Meeka-
tharra, where an average of 65 men were
formerly employed, no less than 74 had to be
dismissed in 12 months for drunkenness.
Shallcross considered that local mine-owners
should take a leaf out of the Yankee steel
corporations’ book and make total abstin-
ence, both on and off duty, a condition of
employment; but, as someone pointed out, if
this was done there would be practically no
labor for the mines at all.
* * * *
As Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) is a smelting as
well as a mining co., it is in a better posi-
tion than most other cos. to do well out
of tin at 2s. per lb. Last half-year sales of
tin averaged only £175 per ton, and the
present price is £5O ahead of that. Biscboff’s
smelter turned out in six months 151 tons
of refined tin from the eo.’s ore and 1008
tons of metal from purchased ore. The
quantity of crudes treated in six months was
about 50,000 tons, which compares with
double that quantity years ago. The new
crushing plant, equipped with the latest tin-
saving appliances, is practically ready for
use.
* * * *
“McLirr”: A case interesting to miners
was recently heard in the Warden’s Court,
Mount Morgan (Q.), when an application
was made by Conrad Hotz for a prospecting
area of 160 acres, near Camboon. The
Warden decided that there was no doubt
from the evidence that Hotz had been in
possession; _ but as to title, though he had
complied with the regulations in respect of
three pegs, the application "ould not be
granted, as the north-eastern peg was repre-
sented by. the stump of a growing tree. The
same decision was given in a similar case
in Victoria some years ago.
* * * #
Last year was a bad year for most N.S.W.
colliery cos., but Seaham (Newcastle) was
able to increase its dividend from 5 p.c. to
6 p.c. per annum. The net profit for 12
months was £11,470, and the dividend
absorbed all but £7O of that.


The MEGGITT Trio
We walk along the sunlit street,
A cheerful trio, we three —
The Meggitt I was, the Meggitt I am
And the Meggitt I’ll one day be.
oo
(With profound apologies to Norman Lindsay.)
% l
«
"1
y-
—<fSf
y. v
3
' «s
sp*>
J*
/
Cs
/V
\1
u;
1
%
29
o
o
h£
cuL
sg
>
p
V
1,
x
u/
\
flft
Q
/<
Q
v
o
✓
a
/
❖ 2i
*£(
©
r
i
ft
K
o
/
O
V
v
/
7
s
A
A BIG RECORD.
Thanks to the fast-growing support of the Oil Distributors, Painters and Oil Useis of Australia,
New Zealand and the Islands, the output for our oil this year will make a big lecoid.
Rest confident in the fact that there is izo Linseed Oil on the woild s market bettei than iMeggitts.
From all Stores, or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson "Ltd., Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd..
Melbourne; Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
XtfHivpv
N.S.W.


B
sg?;
v^-
BEAUTY "▼ATTRACTS
ADMIRATION
A clear, spotless skin, bright eyes, and rosy
cheeks main points of an attractive
face. If your liver is out of order you
will not have these good points in your
complexion.
FISHERS
BEAUTY PILLS
FOR THE LIVER
Make new blood and clear the complexion
of spots and blotches. One pill occasionally
means a healthy liver, a healthy liver
means a big asset to both men and women.
Always ask for Fisher s Liver Pills.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES
per bottle
337' GEORGE STREET, - BYDNEY, N.B.W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing' Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
df
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many timeg as efficient
and powerful aa the old
model. Ninety-six degrees'of sound in eight
adjustment, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
vul for all stages of deafness .
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 UEORQE STREET,
Tel. 391G City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Ino.,45 West 34th St. New York
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives^
CARRY A TUBE OF CINNAK.
IT STOPS A COLD FROM
DEVELOPING.
Onnak
"TO *
gdf
Transfer from the
palm to the tongue
and the cure begins
AT ONCE.
Cinnak can be taken
anywhere.
Cinnak clears, the air passages
instantly and leaves them open and
free. Get a tube now.
All Chemists, PER TUBE.
g
fdg
Bos/ocJL
HIGH day and holiday shoes, for wear on
extra-special occasions with the extra-
special gown, ought, one feels, to have
something distinctive about them, some-
thing that lifts them above the shoes for every-
day wear and tear. It is this distinctive, this
different look, that makes the charm of the most
elegant shoes in the Bostock range, the delightful
little black satin shoe here' illustrated, for ex-
ample. One has only to glance at the picture to see
that here is something very smart and desirable.
Then think of it on, showing daintily, captivat-
ingly, beneath the flounced or scalloped hem of
the summer gown. Nothing could be more appro-
priate or more charming. And with all its
daintiness and piquancy, it is the most comfortable
and well-fitting of shoes, as indeed are all those
short-fronted styles, and will suit most women,
giving that ease, lightness and coolness which the
Australian climate requires.
Bostock No.
P 6414
/
None genu ino
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Bostock shoes are unmistakable. The name is on
every pair, and they are sold at all leading stores,
827
mnriTi
— 4
THE SION OF
A GOOD SHINE
HELLO, DIRTY BOOTS!-.
Bostock’s Shoe Polishes will make you clean and bright.
A little Bostoek’s, a little rub —result, a brilliant and lasting shine. Preserves
as well as polishes I Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, and White.
In tins, 6d. Creams: In 2oz. Tubes, Gd.4oz. Bottles, 1/*
SOLD EVERYWHERE. '
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD.
SYDNEY.
The
TRESS,
rep? mark
guarantees
HATs
CAPS
AN
D
Ofa// frrst-c/ass /hatters throughout the Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OfTRESSsC?L TD LONDON ENGLAND
Q u §( it r,
Finish
L^Character
Gjtesfe*' -jas*.***
'f- ,«*OBL m '&££i
»VK'
•. 8
5.8
4«ai
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron falls - Barron Gorge.
the wonderful hinterland
dvunshine , Palm Trees , .
Tropical Flowers. A .glorious
season of soft sunshine
and scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about ii
is yours for the askmg
f’i'/f in fhis coupon ■—
Ai)/ne
Address
/<> fAt* D/recior of
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau. -
Brisbane, OUEENSLANL.
u
-- 7 -'fc r 4*
m
'-m
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL ®. CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine-Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Iota: What on earth has that long ramble
got to do with the plain quotation from an English
magazine which tells its own tale? The man who
wrote the brief comment came from Ulster, and
knows the position as well as y0u.... Chock-a-log:
Rambling description of nothing... .D.E.: “Out in
the Rain” doesn’t score... .B.B.: The men who
fought at Gallipoli hardly deserve that....
J.M.S.; It would take outstanding genius to avoid
disaster in that cramped metre... .T.J.M.: Letting
“down the sliprails of the grave” by a person on
the other side of the hole is distinctly unusual....
L.E.8.: Crude, but some promise. .. .R.8.K.: Very
lame verse... .J.H.: “Evening Shades” lacks force
and novelty, but otherwise decently done. .. .M.S.:
No. The person who rhymes “josser” with “Bar-
barossa” goes out on his cold, pink ear... .Fernleaf:
It-’s some distance ahead of the last you sent, but
you’ve a long road to travel 5ti11.... D.E.: Your
bloodthirsty desires must learn to squirm in better
verse... .W.G.0.: Alleged poem rejected. It starts as
blank verse, but fuddles, over into bad prose at the
' fourth line.. . .G.S.: “Bad News” doesn’t quite con-
vince. .. .C. 11.: Long way round to a very small
yarn R.V.C.: Not quite... .C.A.M.: Verse setting
too poor. .. .R.8.T.: Don’t choose such a difficult
measure. It wants a lot of skill to keep it on the
track.... M.TI.H.: You “feel the strength of mad-
ness” in your veins. That’s our own sensation
when you mix ancient and modern verbs in that
chaotic fashion., . .V.F.K.: The words are better
than the thought.. . .G. 8.: Deadly du11... .S.S.: The
office murderer laced his whiskers and started on your
track-.... Tom R.: Come right in:—
Out all night and every night 3 immovable sisters,
Admired every day, by Misses, Mrs. and Misters.
Silence in woman? Unknown except when sound
asleep;
But, these 3 sisters were never known to speak.
Silence is golden, but rocks and walls have ears,
And golden things are scarce in this vale of tears.
The moral in these lines is just as clear as day,
Believe all you see, half you read, be dubious of
hear’say,
....Maltese: It’s too wild. The thing wouldn’t
stay on the table while the vacuum-cleaner whizzed
round... .R.N.T.: Bomb-throwing is a fine art. Your
best endeavor only amounts to hurtling an exhausted
cat....Le Noy: Dreary effort.... C.S.: “Contem-
porary Portraits” looks like a lot of rhymes that got
hydrophobia and ran amok.... Ekoorb : Oh, go away.
You can’t make a noise like that here... .G.S.: Not
interested in a mechanical manufacture of heather
out of ill-fitting classic properties. .. .No Name: The
fact that you can’t understand, Bowden’s verse is
merely your misfortune. .. .M.C.D.: Heaven forgive
y0u.... J.S.M.: An idea; but verse not up....
Alfonso: Small joke; miserable handling... .K,F.:
But who is to say the invention of soap wasn’t as
great as the discovery of the telephone, or that the
man who first lighted a fire was inferior to the man
who discovered radium ?.... Cham: Good idea, if
lines didn’t fall back on old tags to get the final
rhyme.. . .R.L.J.: We believe you when you say that
you wrote them in a minute or two. If you had
spent 10 minutes to achieve that result the offence
would have been multiplied 10 times. .. .8.5. A.: The
person who persists in rhyming “dawn” with “morn”
ought to be compelled to listen to Joe Cook speak-
ing.... S.L.: There’s some cheer in it: —
The froth was high and white;
The beer was gleaming bright;
He turned it once around,
And held it to the light.
He woke and slowly rubbed his bleary eye,
And to the copper said: “Lor’ blime! I’m dry!”
. ...5.8.: Any bookseller anywhere in any country
will order for a customer any book published, if you
specify the title, name of author and publisher.
The procuring of books happens to be the book-
seller’s job. Curious that you don’t know that....
J.C.W. Spakesheare: The copyright of a song pub-
lished in Australia belongs to the author, and there-
fore, presumably, includes the title, which could only
be used as the title of a play by the consent of the
owner of the copyright. However, there are titles of
songs, consisting of words or phrases in common use,
to which the author of a song could hardly claim
copyright. Anyhow, why not be original enough to
title your play without borrowing?. .. .Miss E.H.:
No; too delicate.... Marjorie: “Clasped to her
bosom,” etc., would go perhaps if the Religious
Editor wasn’t away converting a cannibal....
Jas. Paterson: Now, honestly, do you think that sort
of thing is worth a man’s thought '/.... Wolseley:
Received clipping, from S. M. Herald, that a man
lias died aged 106. If you know anything interest-
ing about him, write it.... Anne: No; it is not
suitable for publication in The Bulletin. .. .E.T.11.
(Maldon) : “Official Information” no use to us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.S.: Too crude to be seriously considered....
F.C.H.: Terrible exhibit.. . .H.W.8.: Too many
. gravestones... .M.P.: Bumps and lumps... .E.A.S.:
The grim truth is that you can’t draw... .Bill: Very
gloomy stuff... .C. 8.: You’re in the nursery stage
yet. ... W.P.: Everything and everybody out of per-
spective. .. .H.S.P.: Where’s the point?
“Green Tape” reports a collapse:—
The slide for life over the Norton Griffiths pact
has given the N. S. Wales Public Works Department
the staggers. All railway construction now goes
over to the Railway Commissioners. “Joe” Davis,
the Director-General of Public Works, is respon-
sible for this. Thinking himself a cert, for
the job of Railway Commissioner, he last
year transferred a large slice of his Department to
the Railway Department. Now with the N.-G.
scheme gone bung another big slice from Works
moves, and Davis has to follow as Director-General
of Railway Construction, with the Commissioners
between him and the Minister. Now Minister for
Works Ball finds himself with an emasculated
department, and though he is Minister for Railways,
the Chief Commissioner is supreme except in matters
of high policy. To give Ball an excuse for drawing
his big salary it is proposed to make him Lord of
the Water Board (an idea which strikes the Board
as foolish) and High Priest of Sydney . Harbor Trust
(a proceeding which the Commissioners, regard as an
outrage). As for the rank and file, they dunno what
is about to happen to them. Some have been jerked
over to the Railways, some had been handed over to
Norton Griffiths and have to be taken back, and
others will have to bring up in strange places. All
have been guaranteed their jobs, but no one knows
where.


46 CHUNDER ” TAKES A TRIP HOME.-
-At the War.
“‘.,••l*s*
wV.vf
■ /
x
,-jc' .:•■■’*
4^Sv<--
*i»v
■v £j
o-: ..
>£;>> , %'*'£&fa«
is ■yyyry
W-W&M
a-s
m
mmf
s&2£j£&?
>,4«
V
v*£
im
vVvv)-
M
fp&rai
m
m
Wmm
mi
mm*
MM
Wi
ii
wm
m
Hi
§ts
mm
&
wmm
ym
-& m
%y.yk'&,
mm
mm
m
mrnmm
HI
••v."
' gsas
mm
m.
*
.
Wfl
fl
iml£
tppwt
iSmli
.-a*
Jto
jsi'f?
SB
-•." f ,
y-YA'i
WJ
m
Y:M
■
&
m&m
wM
/, ; ,a^
;-v?
AaX
m
■urn
A
/*
i<Siiy
w
WJ
m.
/O
f
it)
&
/
Ct^
m
\j
-^5
I
i k •' 3
A)\
\ sj'i r *
>tf ■
wmmmM
fit
7M
lifer*
m
m
Wm
!).<0
'%U
m
■fcw
ms
■&#*
W
m
i.il jii - v ' : ijiyi ,:f r i\.i-.
iU*
<y-
#sTS
m
«u
pgp*
%
ass
) h
m
A
m
■-■i,
wsm
i
s*f
1
>s^
»
il
k
iiAmmmwi
r
'itifil
*4r%l@!
if-'r
A&i
l-. 4»
im.
! -M:
fey-?
.■> V
mom
ms.
r.
f/Yr
vArj
, y r' *-A jf kjrftai";
„~.-C r rr - r- J*f‘.*‘.,r’,&£ijiiii4t±--
sM&Byie
a®
£
kyAf.'jj-
,.rv
issm
s»
\'J .<v •** ';■
4> '....--v'.'yri
■■v/’
rS'^7
r;^r^
is
Sffifeu
-%ft§
•*.*■>«
l*lvt 'r^t\:'.- - :\>
Wmm
■PM
imm
m
'm
m
A :A Y’t'-
i %#• Akkwmi-
V'v :
%
-'■•’■ •'• tV *
■: '<
WV:':;,
SI
PP9OT
mm
yyyk
yi’
p fy
WM
CX:.w
£■ t-
✓ r 4
Cobrat,” Boot Polish.
nhi mill i«—■■in imirniK mu
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Cheers the big Tank,
Breaking through.
Straight across the
Wire it rolls,
Scaring Germans
From their holes.
“ Good old Tank ! ”
The “Cobras” shout,
Ere they turn and
Chase the rout.
“Cobra” Tanks and
“Cobra” men
Will get Europe
Clean again.
o


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EN CLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc..
Apply
ORIENT S. ti. CO., Ltd.,
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailing's as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY
msISIiANK
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
'ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, May 19.
BOMBALA (-1000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May 23.
Leaves Sydney, May. 20.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May 30.
Leaves Sydney, June 2. ’
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
"Passengers only.
South.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, June 2.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking. Public Companies, &c.
THE
Australian j)ank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
ArTimillSF.il CAPITAL .. .. £2,000.000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid ITo £1,198,079
RESERVE FUND £95,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets. Sydney.
LONDON’ OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DJRKO i ORS—Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors; THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The lion.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
William davies; e. h. macartney, m.l.a. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. \ J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to tiie Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital ~ .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo, Edwd, Running, Esq, (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V.- RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - DKISDANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [united.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£6,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs. " .
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
Loudon Office: 18 Birchiri Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of Bern Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WVNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. • .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up - 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
BETWEEN
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU, onh“c e .
A HENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Ho?‘day in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu,
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney,
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
fdg
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD ~ 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
df
£3,705.320
£2,725.000
£3,705,320
£10,135.640
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles E. Macliellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. Janies T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund \V. Fosbery, C.al.u., M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas RucUland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
• Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedle St . E.c.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIIiF.CT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
,T, t?HC!«3ETJ. FLENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
I
HEAD OFFICE
BmMustraHa
SYDNEY. ■
i. General Banking; Business P ‘r„‘r P e a ,
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
t
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deptity Go»eri!Or. June, ISI6 DENISON MILLER. Gore:
THRIFT SUGGESTIONS
Thrift does not require superior courage, nor superior intellect, nor any superhuman
virtue. It merely requires a little patient self-denial. “BEGIN” is its device.
Even 1/- a week deposited regularly in this Bank will amount to £2O/10/7 in
seven years.
This Bank Offers You Every Facility for Saving.
Deposits received from
1/- upwards.
132 Branches and 500
Agencies throughout
the State.
mMm
$
r a
5$
Zp
5
3
Or
03
4
j
3a-
INTEREST
C 2
ON
\Z>
DEPOSITS
3*
S
N
Interest paid at
394 % per annum on
every £ up to £5OO.
No Agencies at Post-
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
'i RUPARA, Saturday, May 19.
- PARINGA, Saturday, May 26.
J MORIALTA, Saturday, June 2.
lranshipping to all other Queensland Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Oliice.
G. S. VIIUj & CO.. 1.T1)..
Agents, 6 JiIMDCiK ST It MIST. SYI/NHF.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,"
“Riverina,”
“Wimmera,"
“Victoria.”
“Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & Al.l. NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN POUTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
|44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
11. JONES & CO. LTD., llobart.
'THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, CUFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. CO S-. i'ui. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
gfd
>
g—QUICK RESULTS
USE
(SPILLfIRINE
You need never doubt the efficacy
of CAPILLARINE at a Moustache-
producer. It has produced the
desired result with thousands.
Why not with you ? )
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE, f
craig s mm, eS4 sY_TY 6 st, |
Established over 30 years.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tho
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


JMUnilllUH
miiniwmiii
sae®
mms
net/
GS>
ES . AEROPLANES
p/ r j>-
Michelih are taking *fheir (ufl share in Ihe work cost
op Winning "the W&r reciprocate and
Michel in dhe fu/l share op your support
tL,m tviri
Ml'chelin lyres obtainable from all (eading dealers
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. E- tab. 1891.
Make Sure of a
Clean, Sanitary Bowl
by using Sani-Flush, the only
preparation that effectually
cleans the hidden trap, pre-
vents odors, makes dipping of
water and scrubbing unnec-
essary. Sprinkle a little in the
bowl every day.
Directions on every can of
Sani-Flush
: 1
rtOj,
m
A,k#
P l
Th» trap ,
wnich^you
**c*ptwrtfc'
Unique
nothing else
like it Not a
general clean-
ser, but made
only to clean
toilet bowls.
Does not
injure plumb-
ing connec-
tions.
Ask
Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sam-Flush or can
get it quickly; or write us a card
giving your dealer’s name and we
will have you supplied.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments; Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
“ AUSTRALIAN - NIGHTS
entertainments.”
The Sultan Haroun in his wondrous Arabian Nights found some
rare entertainment, but never could command such musical
performances as YOU can in these Australian nights, if you
own an
if.
"HIS MASTER'S VOICE”
GRAMOLA.
g
This superb instrument—the pride of the
Gramophone Co.—is a musical treasury. It
is virtually an opera-house at home —it is
every musical instrument in one—it is
unique and beautiful.
Made of Choicest Circassian Walnut, highly
figured with hand-carved corner posts
and brass-gilt fittings. Extensive storage
chamber for 192 records.
Other instruments from £7/15/-
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name
of nearest accredited dealer on request.
To get the true effect, use “His Master’s
Voice” Records with “His blaster’s Voice”
Instruments.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY
The Bulletin
If any illustration- appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fhncy, write to the
Manager, who will qyuofca -you price for it.
sm
YOU
SHOULD
CHOOSE
your footwear carefully. Remem-
ber, it either makes or mars your
appearance.
ABBEY SHOES
are correct in style, and perfect in
lit and workmanship.
You are' assured the utmost com
fort, because they are made in half-
and full-sizes, and in three fittings
—narrow, medium and wide.
We illustrate a choice Patent
Oxford Bal„ with dull Calf Legs.
Price - 47/-
Highest-grade Tan Willow Calf,
same price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
UMP
fM The Trusty Triumph is
' a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
IS
Agents:
Bennett SBarkell
Ltd.,
124*132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
At the present time the whole ol
our productions are requisitioned by
the British War Office and the War
Offices of the Allies.
The Bulletin
Thedsfsd Bulletinedsftin
THE FAMOUS
AMERICA'S STATiDARD FOUR-CYCIi EMGIME
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed..
Made by Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
See one of these engines working.
It will convince you ; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of those ’ qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OR CALL AT
Motor Showrooms: 35 Pitt St., Sydney.


The Bulletin
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tiie Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15W6. CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
The Finney
FIT-U BEsr
Hand*
Tailored
Suit,
84/-
The Bulletin
Here’s Your Weather
(You can no longer make that an excuse)
and Here’s Your Suit.
IT’S A FINNEY FIT-U-BEST
HAND-TAILORED SUIT AT...
84/-
HAND TAILORED so well that both you and your pocket-book
will' be better pleased six months after you buy it.
HAND TAILORED inside and out —one for appearance, one for
permanency.
IN SHORT: 84/- at Finney's buys you the “Fit-u-best’ hand-
tailored Suit which, in every “jot and tittle” of its Material and
Making, is as fine as any living man need wear—whether he has a
“fiver” a week and hopes—or two thousand a year and complications.
JUST DROP US A POST CARD and we’li Post
you a. Batch of Samples by Return.
FINNEY’S
Rough-rider
HAT
This is just the hat for every Bushman.
Just tlje hat to wear when ridifig through
the bush at breakneck pace. The brim is
wide and shady—3£ inches —specially
stiffened, cannot flop over the eyes. The
strap around crown ean be adjusted to
make it fit tight with a “grip.” Impos-
sible to blow off. The color is a cool,
serviceable Brown, and the price is
12/6 ——no more than the cost of an
ordinary hat.
Send a Postal and your size; the hat
will reach you by return —post free.
BPECIAL
PRICE ..
126
POST
FREE.
The Drapers of
Queensland.
FINNEY, ISLES S CO., LTD.,
The Big Block,
Brisbane.
S
45
I
The
Finney
ROUGH-
RIDER
Hat,
12/6
IN BANANA LAND
There is no accounting for votes. Some of
the strongest Labor constituencies in Queens-
land voted in favor of the retention of the
Legislative Council, despite the fact that
their local Labor M.L.A. was busy advocat-
ing its abolition. Bulimba, a red-hot Labor
stronghold, gave a vote of 3242 for extermi-
nating the Fossil Chamber, while 6112 voted
to give the Councillors for the first time in
their existence the evidence that they are in
power by the voice of the people.
The new’ meat rates as fixed between the
Queensland Cabinet and the Imperial Gov-
ernment are: Ox-beef, 4 7-Bd. per lb.; cow-
beef, 4 5-Sd. The State butchers’-shops, how-
ever, will be supplied at 3d. per lb. for chilled
or fresh beef; and frozen beef for 3jd. per lb.
The differentiation between these two prices
is even greater than it was last year; but, of
course, the claim of the man at the Front to
cheap meat is as nothing compared with the
c-laim of the stay-at-homes.
Gone to the Great Laboratory, William J.
Trouton, Brisbane’s most conspicuous
chemist and a good sport. Away back in
’Bl he arrived from County Armagh, Ireland,
in Bananaland, and a couple of years later
his pills started making the corner of Queen
and George Streets famous. A few years
ago he retired for a while, but the calomel
called again, and up till the death knock
he was distributing mixtures. Trouton was
a keen judge and a great lover of nags, and
in his time owned some of the best horse-
flesh in the State.
“The Bell-ringer’s” news :
Brisbane rubbed its eves the other day when it
read that Father Kelly, S.S.M., was to preach in
the local Anglican cathedral. It was all right. Kelly
is an Anglican, and is known as “Father,” according
to Anglican usage, because he is not a “secular”
but a “religious”—a member of one of the semi-
monastic orders which have sprung up in the Angli-
can Church since the “Catholic” revival started at
Oxford by Newman and others 80 years ago. Kelly’s
order —the “Society of the Sacred Mission’’ —was
founded by himself, and includes a well-
known training college at Kelham (Eng.),
where sons of more or less poor wage-
earners who wish to wear the clerical collar are given
a general education equal, and a professional training
much superior, to that which the wealthy classes buy
at the big public schools and universities. Just now
A FAVORITE.
THE MANAGER: “The public will miss you now you have left the stage"
ACTOR: “ That's why I left — I dislike being hit."
the college is closed, and all the students are wearing
khaki, so Father Kelly has been lending a hand to
the Anglican missions in Japan. Archgaiters Donald-
son recently beckoned him across to help a special
winter rally, and he will find a few of his old
students passing the plate in Bishop Feetham’s
diocese at the back of Townsville.
“Boro Belle”: The numerous islands off
the North Queensland coast, from Broad-
sound up, offer splendid opportunities for
fruit and vegetable farming. There is one
island, 10 miles from Mackay, that produces
excellent, tomatoes, pines, citrus fruits and
Swede turnips; while Green Island, a further
10 miles north, has yielded splendid samples
of English potatoes. Lindeman Island, 30
miles further north, is famed for its large-
sized oranges and bananas, besides its mutton
and wool. Fresh-water springs abound in
most of the islands, but, anyhow, there’s a
plentiful supply at hand 15 feet down. The
Government steamers from Mackay, Towns-
ville and Cairns already carry supplies to
the neighboring lighthouses and island
squatters, so communication with the main-
land on a bi-weekly service could easily be
established. For building there are millions
of feet of pine available. At least a couple
of thousand settlers could be comfortably
accommodated in these fertile dots.
Saddled and Bridled.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s a wondrous world we live in, and our casual
fellow man
Is a curious kind of study, be he black or white or
tan;
And the task of all reformers is to drive the world
along
In a way that’s straight and narrow from a road
that’s wide and wrong;
But the problem tliat our pundits cannot solve and
cannot burk,
And the problem that is setting every honest brain
to work
la to run (he country rightly by a just and golden
rule
When the Hogue is in the Saddle and the Saddle’s
on the Fool.
For the worldly-wise are mighty and they boast a
ready crew
Who, with sycophantic eagerness, their slightest bid-
ding do;
And the Rogue who rides the jackass is as sharp as
any pin,
And he rides for pelf and glory through a fatted
land of sin,
While the Fool who bears the saddle, though he’s
sound in back and wind,
13 but feeble hi tile region where he ought to keep
his mind ;
How to mend it, how to end it—-this would puzzle
any school
When the Hogue is in the Saddle and the Saddle’s
on the Fool.
For the saddle’s very weighty and the brains of him
below
Are pondering on the journey and the road he’s
got to go.
He’s been used to bear the saddle thus for many a
weary year,
And to lose it would upeet him and disorganise his
gear.
ne thinks the Lord intended him to spring beneath
the spur
And if a rider mount on him then why should he
demur ?
So he buckles to the burden like a workman to the
tool—
Oh, a Rogue will fit the Saddle when the Saddle’s
on the Fool.
And it makes a mortal ponder on the curious scheme
of things—
Is it going to last for ever or till mortals borrow
wings ?
Is the half of poor Creation for the bit and stirrup
born ?
Is its table but a manger with a meed of chaff and
com?
Can we fight it, can we right it? If we pull the
villain down
Can we keep a second villain from remounting on
the clown?
You will always find a master for the man who’s
half a mule
And a Rogue to fit the Saddle when it’s placed upon
the Fool.
And the creeds of all the Ages—-some of Love and
some of Fear—
Though we know them great and potent, yet they
seem to shatter here;
’Tis the same in ancient China, ’tis the same in old
Japan,
’Tis the same in frigid Britain and in torrid
Turkestan;
If half the earth is callous to the feeling of its shame
And the other half is careless to the guilt upon its
name,
Is it possible to free us from our misery and dool
When the Rogue is in the Saddle and the Saddle on
the Fool?
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 12, 1917.
My Deab Thabgomindah,—
His Ex. and Lady Goold Adams have been
getting a touch of the anxiety that parentage
is heir to. A few days ago their son
developed pneumonia; and her Ex. tied
hastily. back to Dalveen to be with him.
Latest reports say that his strong constitu-
tion is getting the trouble down and that
he will soon be well.
The Mayor and Mayoress of Adelaide
(Aid. and Mrs. Isaacs) have been spending a
few days in Brisbane. Yesterday our Best
people were mustered by Mayoress iletlier-
ingtou at the Council Chambers, to be intro-
duced to the visitors over a c-up of afternoon
tea. On the previous day the two Mayor-
esses had bustled round the various Red
Cross depots and had a look in at the
Women’s Mutual Service Club.
John Ashburn, squatter, has heard the
call of the war-horn and gone into camp.
Before doing so he sold his run. Rocklea sta-
tion ; and Mrs. Ashburn and family will live
at Toowoomba until John comes marching
home.
Sister B. L. Gibbon, a Brisbane girl, is
one of the nurses on whom the Royal Red
Cross was conferred in February. She left
here with the No. 1 A.G.H., and was for a
while at Heliopolis. After that she w T as
on transport duty and then went to Netley.
Now she is back in France with her original
unit. Another of the Gibbon girls is matron
of the military hospital at Rabaul.
The knitting-needles in this State have
been going at top speed during recent
months. The year’s output shows 20,742
pairs of socks to the credit of the Soldiers’
Sock Fund, which held its annual meeting
this week. Miss Philp, who is hon. treas.,
mentioned also a bank balance of £163 18s.
Over £l6OO has been spent on raw material
during the 12 months.
Mrs. R. L. Gordon managed a coin-and-
gift afternoon at her home at East Bris-
bane on Thursday. As a result, our men
overseas will benefit to the extent of £l2 ss.
in cash and 10 guineas’ worth of tinned
stuff.
Fairholme, the Cameron place on the
Range at Toowoomba, has been sold to the
Queensland Scotchbyterian Church' for a
girls’ college. There are 10 acres of ground
and the price was £5000; but, as Mrs.
Cameron handed half the proceeds back to
the college, Elspeth and .Tean seem to have
scored mightily in the transaction.
Phyllis Peberdy took her pretty person
and good contralto voice to the altar last
Saturday. The man who got these gifts was
Seigfried Benjamin.
Mrs. Lohde has her little son Rolf back
again now, after nearly two years of anxiety
and suspense. Pastor Trenz, acting on the
father’s instructions, had placed the child
with a German family at Toowoomba; and
before the mother could recover her offspring
Pastor Trenz and Dr. Lohde had to be
dragged back from a camp in N. S. Wales
for the purposes of the case.
There is no sign of patriotic effort slack-
ing off. As a result of a “tin” tea in aid
of the Soldiers’ Comforts Fund, huge stacks
of canned eatables are awaiting the trails '
port which will place them where they are
awaited. For 2nd L.II. Comforts Fund,
Sirs. ,7. S. P. Bourne, whose son, Lt.-Col.
Bourne, has lately added a D.S.O. to his war
souvenirs, gave a fete at her home at Clay-
field to-day, with satisfactory results.
R. W. T. Kendrick (who holds on to the
public moneybags of Papua) and his wife
spent a few days in Brisbane this week, and
then passed southward to visit friends.
Miss Macfarlane. a charming American
visitor, gave a farewell tea yesterday in Miss
Vera Ramee’s studio, before leaving for the
South.
On Friday night the Rev. J. B. Cosh,
while delivering an address on social reform,
"caused his hearers to sit up and take notice.
He referred to a mysterious “crime” whiei
a State politician had recently committei
and which the press was carefully smother-
ing. A reporter stayed behind after the
meeting and begged for details; but beyond
saying darkly that the “crime” took place
on' a Friday, Cosh, 8.A., was as silent as
the Sphinx. Everybody is now asking who,
what, and why.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“E.F.H.”: —
A pur. about the vanishing Thursday Island fleet
(B. 5/4/’I7) makes my thoughts fly north. A man
who might have written a sheaf of stories was Cap-
tain Pym, the skipper of the last Three Cheers schooner
mentioned in Tjie Bulletin. When the seven fleets
were working in the Aru Islands (as the Celebes
Trading Co.) the old Sydney Belle replaced her.
The Tea Chest, as she was locally known, and the
Alice were the last of the fore-and-afters. The
Sydney Belle had had a pretty lurid career in the
South Seas and was a new departure at the pearling
game, being rigged as a barquentine. She was
rechristened the Torres when she was brought up to
the Dutch Indies Worn Sydney by Pym. He went
down in the Australian trawler Endeavor, so I
suppose his fine collection of yarns has gone with
him. They were as good and as typical of pearling
as Connolly’s are of the Newfoundland fishing and
its schooners. Mention of the Alice brings to mind
those other fine craft in the Arus. Most graceful
and fastest of the lot was the Ariel, which once-did
a trip from the Arus' to Cape Don, 410 knots, in 40
hours. She was designed by one of her owners, and
w'as a double topsail schooner, and could leave them
all on a slog to windward. The Aladdin, a topsail
schooner, was once a yacht that always carried a
trysail at anchor to steady her. If the old Bothwell
Castle could have seen her roll she would have sunk
with envy. The Aladdin once rolled right round.
Her whale boat was full next morning to prove it.
Her crew didn’t mind that; what worried them was
that she might not have enough water under her if
she did it again, and get her topmast either foul or
bioken off. Among the many fine hands at a tiller
up there, that grand old man, Steve Clark, skipper
of the Alice, stood alone. A game of his was to
win a match with his boat, then double the Stake
and resail after changing boats. He went to Sydney
to see the first Sayonora-Bona race, and always
maintained that he could have won with either boat
as they were sailed. Some of the sails on the Alice
would make a crew of a Port Jackson 14-footer
wonder. Her main boom was 70 feet and the sail
set like a mainsail on an America Cup boat, as did
all her other sails. Steve had a big balloon jib
made out of duck ; it was 182 feet on the four-stay,
and when it was set. it used to fairly lift the boat
along. As it sheeted home on the same bits as the
main sheet it was a beauty to handle when it carried
away, as it sometimes did. To see about 70 'or 80
luggers atid half a dozen schooners beating out a
narrow passage in the early morning was a sight
for a yachtsman that I suppose will never be seen
again in any part of 'the world. The cruel and hard
part is that the fine men. who were men in every
sense of the word, are being replaced by the yellow,
brown and brindle mixture now at the game.


it
V
♦
m
c/ffassafr afeaar in Jldvanee
IKE its predecessors it will make motor car history.
©. When we announced the fir£t Studebaker models in 1913 a new quality
mark in popular priced motor cars had been attained and quite naturally the
demand exceeded the supply.
CL Though the basic design of the fir£t models has not been changed because
they proved themselves beyond shadow of a doubt all over the world (and
particularly in Australia) refinements and improvements have been added that
make these new Series “18” Studebaker cars the most comfortable and roomy,
finely finished, moderate priced, quality cars on the market.
CL You can pay more, of course, but you cannot equal the quality, comfort, power, efficiency
and durability that you get in a Studebaker for anything less than £ 100 more.
CL The 1913 Studebaker began by breaking cross country records, the 1914 followed suit, the
1913 Studebaker astounded the world when it came across from Fremantle to Sydney via
Adelaide in less than nine days, the Series “ 16 ” and “ 17 ” Studebakers kept on upsetting pre-
cedents by breaking the high speed records of Australia, attaining a speed of 85 miles per hour
on the beach at Southport, Queensland, and again, contending against muddy roads, driving
rains and swollen creeks, smashing a good weather record from Sydney to Brisbane by 4/2 hours.
These new Series 18 Studebaker Cars with many added
refinements embody the best of all previous models .
Undeniably they the best value obtainable on the Australian or any other market, possess-
ing many unusual features most of which are exclusively Studebaker.
Write for Catalogs and particulars of the unusual features.
The Bsdfulletin
HIGH TENSION
MAGNETO
ON ALL CARS WITHOUT
ADDITIONAL COST
til
ill.
till
"d
III!
fit
111,
ll'l
Uii
mmssßunfm^
ci
BUgimirnunjirmt
m
FOUR CYLINDER TOURING
SIX CYLINDER TOURING -
FOUR CYLINDER ROADSTER
SIX CYLINDER ROADSTER
15-CWT. DELIVERY CHASSIS
Roadster seats are adjustable to length of limb, j
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES.
GENERAL DISTRIBUTORS
STUDEBAKER CORPORATION
head office and showrooms. of AUSTRALASIA LTD.
177 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY.


Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins tc
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter's Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
sdfsdf sdf
Carters
fITTLC
IVER
PILLS,
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LECS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug: Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him*
rod's Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A nstra/asia.
SKF
Bali Bearings.
sdf
sdfsdsdf
Hanger Block and Bearing.
For shafting you reach the high-water
mark in using our Plummer and Hanger
Blocks, self-aligning, saving in power
from 25% to 75%.
Double Thrust Bearings for motor-boats,
gears, etc. Single Thrusts for centrifugal
pumps and all classes of machinery.-
m
Double and Single Thrusts.
GARDNER, W£RN
==& CO.;- -
Melbourne 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane ...... 369 Queen Street.
If any 1 illustration appearing in The
Bhixetin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it
the: bank, of Adelaide:.
FIFTY-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors submit herewith for the information of Shareholders the Balance-sheet of the Bank as
on 26th March, 1917, also Statements of Profit and Loss Accounts and Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Unappropriated Balance of the Profit and Loss Account as on 27th March, 1916, is ..£42,996 lo '
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows: —
To Reserve Fund (making it £540,000) .. .. .. .. .. £30,000 0 0
To Reduction of Bank Premises .. .. ... -■ -•-• 12,996 15
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 26th March, 1917, amounts to. .
out of which an Interim Dividend at rate of 8 per cent, per annum was paid in November
last .. ....
leaving a balance now available of ..
from which it is proposed to pay a Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum
and to carry forward..
Since the last Report the Karoonda Agency has been converted into a Branch, and an Agency has
been opened at Wanbi. The Agencies at biigh, Muljarra, Mypolonga, Port Rickaby and Wynarka have
been closed. .
The General Annual Meeting will be held in the Board-room at the Head Office of the Bank, Ring
William-street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 2nd May, 1917, at 12 noon, at which the Shareholders will
be called upon to elect two Directors in place of Arthur Waterhouse, Esq., and George Brookman, Esq.,
J.P., who retire by rotation, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Shareholders will have to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and to fix the remuneration
of the retiring Auditors. s
BALANCE-SHEET ON 26th MARCH, 1917.
To Capital paid up
Reserve fund..
Profit and loss,
Old account..
Profit and loss,
New account..
LIABILITIES.
£500,000 0 0
510,000 0 0
42,996 15 0
36,173 5 5
£1,089,170 0 5
8,517 0 0
214,109 17 0
8,048 5 7
3,759,455 2 10
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Balances due to other Banks ..
Deposits
Interest accrued on fixed Deposits
and rebate on Bills Discounted
48,831 10 9
£5,128,131 16 V
ASSETS.
By Specie, Bullion,
and cash bal-
ances . . £283,471 5 1
Australian notes 444,954 10 0
Government De-
bentures .. 461,452 12 8
Imperial Govern-
ment Treasury
bills . . . . 287,000 0 0
Municipal deben-
tures .. . • 3,115 0 0
Money at short
call .. .. 530,000 0 0
Balances due from
other Banks .. 105,607 11 9
Notes of other
Banks .. .. 117 0 0
Kemittances in
transitu .. 181,914 0 5•»
£2,302,631 19' 6
Bank premises and furniture .. 114,657 16 8
Bills receivable and all other ad-
vances .. .. 2,710,842 0 5
£5,128.131 16
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, from March 27, 1916, to March 26, 1917.
To Dividend
Balance..
To Dividend
Balance..
in May, 1916 .. ..fSO'iOOO 0 0
42,996 16 0
£62,996 16 0
in November, 1916 ..£20,000 0 0
36,173 6 6
£56,178 5 5
By Balance 27th March, 19X6
..£62,996 15 0
£62,996 15 0
By Net Profit for year
from 27th March, 1916,
to 26th March, L 1917,
including recoveries, and
after making provision
for bad and doubtful
debts, interest accrued
on fixed deposits, and
rebate on bills dis-
counted, and expenses '
at Head Office and 58
Branches, including sal-
aries, rents, etc. . .£58.459 0 3
Less land
and income
taxes ..£2,097 410
Less note tax 188 10 0
2,285 14 10
£56,173 5 5
£56,173 5 5
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date
..£510,000 0 0
£510,000 0 0
By Balance 27th March, 1916
..£510,000 0 0
£510,000 0 0
•TOI-m Minagrer.
W. P. COTTRELL, Accountant.
> T,mTT Trn w \t^rhouse
GEORGE BROOKMAN
JAS. R. FOWLER
HOWARD W. LLOYD
A. G. UYMILL
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance-sheet with the Books and Accounts of The Bank of Adelaide
for the Year ending 26th March, 1917. and certify that it is a correct abstract of the same. We have
counted the Cash and examined the Bills on hand at the Head Office—the Assets .and Liabilities at the
Branches other than London have been taken on the certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the
respective Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 16th April, 191:7
AV. L. WARE. F.C.P.A. )
WILLIAM NEILL, F.C.P.A. ( Aucmors -
■■■
£>'3trTr*f
'aimSimi
m
i* Kl=
KSCS
Sr*
§lp£ltlfl£
X
mp
••* c > • -xj*
srnmmm
■
P.:- r,, ‘* -f's
•/; ;
CV'.
&
* O 'fS
iCQ,
MgMtl
.••'•‘’tf’Kj'.'-.'f
✓
&Sk
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. haw Wo |
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
‘Phosferine
Proven Remedy
N eurastheni a
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h-s received such absolu'e proof of it*
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely agedNe*vLi ea.id h.nergy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probab y the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes:
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility s
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D.. C.M..
St r,eon. Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton I* Parsons LtdL, fUmdon, would appreciate y°“r e sU f, ,w?H£
withh substitute not bearing theff name, you would post the package to 4QS t-omnsStree*
the genSne article will be sent in its place, and the jcost of postage
| I refunded to you. 1
“Xela”: A strange craft of unusual in-
terest is the Messenger, a little cutter which
anchored in the lagoon at Papeete recently.
Pitcairn Island, of Bounty mutiny fame, is
without any regular means of communica-
tion with civilisation, which in this instance
is represented by Papeete, 1100 miles distant
from Pitcairn. A sailing-boat in need of
water occasionally visits the island, but the
inhabitants appear not to be satisfied with
that. Wherefore about 18 months ago the
entire population set to work on the building
of the Messenger. It took 15 months to com-
plete the weird-loooking ark, and no such
absorbing interest has ever been taken in
the maiden voyage of any Clyde-built liner
as when the pioneer set out for Papeete in
February. It took her three weeks to reach
the Tahitian town, and, sad to say, her sea-
going qualities are not looked upon with
enthusiasm by the simple Pitcairners by
whom she was manned. She is anchored in
the lagoon at Papeete, and when the last
trans-Pacific liner left that port the old crew
didn’t seem particularly anxious to again
do that 1100 miles to Pitcairn.
“Lahma”: After a year in the wilderness
the three troopers were swinging the axe at
Shepherd’s when they suddenly came face to
face with a beautiful vision. His costume
included high-heeled silver-buckled' shoes
with large bowß, silk stockings, white
breeches and an elegant-flowered waistcoat
covered by a flowing martial tunic smothered
with braid. The exhilarated musketeers re-
covering their balance, bowed and shook
hands. The vision was delighted and posed
smilingly for a snapshot, while a British
staff-officer up stage went black in the face.
Some hours later the joyous soldiey-men saw
a huge crowd being addressed by their decor-
ative friend. He was Venizelos’s No. 3
general!
Jack Sommers: Billjim certainly lacks
reverence. Saw a group of three of him
arguing excitedly on a wharf. A few paces
away a general and some of his staff chatted.
Presently one of the disputants detached
himself, hitched on to his toes, took a
glance at the big chief’s shoulder-straps, and
yelled cheerfully to his cobbers, with a jerk
of thumb over his shoulder: “There y’are, I
told yer ’e was a —- General!” Bets duly
paid.
The neutrality of Germany’s nearest
neighbor is pathetic in its one-sidedness. A
Dutch newspaper may say pretty well what
it likes about the British-, but the editor
who wrote—“ln Central Europe there is a
group of rascals without conscience who
courted this war,” was sent to gaol for
three months. Holland lives in daily fear
of the Hun Government and takes its instruc-
tions from Berlin as to what to do with
editors; but let Germany be beaten, let the
nose of the bully nation be rubbed in the
dust, and then will all the little neutrals
join hands and dance around their natural
enemy. The world is not half conscious of
its hatred for Hunland. Ninety per cent-
of the truth about German character re-
mains to be told after the war. A million
or two prisoners have to bring their con-
tributions to the sum of information re the
effects of a century of uninterrupted mili-
tarism on the Prussian soul.
Ramchaud Kashinath Dattarya’s solemn
warning:—*
My purposes for writing on you this is to
enform many English Brothers to give honor and
devotion to other ladvs because they will in the
end becum proud and then they will want to vote.
Two or three things happen at Victory Garden to-
morrow yesterday, and then I all of a sudden made
up my brain to write to you immediate. There was
many English womans and when mans are sittin’
on,the bench and womans come and mans stand and
give their sits to womans. This happen two or
three times to-morrow yesterday and I question you
why ? I again tell you whv ? Mans and womans
are similar in this world and then why mans honors
womans? If they honors old, old womans, one
thing, but they honors young lady. My purpose
to write this is to enform the English Sahib that
when they do this they spoil their feminine lady
and they this lady get proud and walk like peacock
and then ask vote and then spoil Ken Garden and
throw bomb on Loid Gorg put bursting powder in
envelope and post and create other mischief. There-
fore I say to my English brothers, please dont spoil
English womans because by honoring them you
people put in them the sids of Sufragetism and then
they will get wild like Misses Pancurs.
The son of a well-known singer who died
lately at a ripe old age has lately been work-
ing in one of the Government Departments.
He had seen active service himself, and
when given some soldiers’ pay-books to col-
lect certain details from he found that the
leaves of many were glued together with the
blood of their owners. Then he looked round
the room and saw so many able-bodied
clerks fit for service that he felt he couldn’t
work there any longer, and resigned. He is
now trying to return to the Front or get
work amongst men who have done their bit.
HIS GREAT PREOCCUPATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She sat there at the ingle side.
And stitched a patient gait;
He sank within the glare, and eyed
The embers in the grate.
And as he looked it seemed a blind
Preoccupation grew.
That she was absent from his mind
Instinctively she knew.
She ceased to sew, and watched him there
With jealous eyes, and he
Sank deeper in his absent air.
What might his musings be?
There were those other ladies fair
He’d loved in summers sped.
Was’t she with heaped Autumnal hair
To whom his dreaming led ?
There was another, dark and small,
Whose tantalising smile
Once mocked her from the Study wall.
Whose eyes of cunning guile
Had fleered upon the lawful wife,
’Twas she who led him out
Beyond the meek and measured life
To some old, shameless rout.
She clenched her little hands in hate.
She felt that she must scream.
His eyes were still upon the grate.
He shook away the dream.
Said he: “If I don’t shift it, Ruth.
'Twill have me dippy soon.
I’ve had a bristle in this tooth
The whole dashed afternoon!"
VICTORIA.
Y.Z.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. Wt
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Rilev Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains In every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns —
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
'ft
53
*
-f*ai
,/VV
"S'
re
V.
l
N
V
V
N
ssxS
cl
<s?
pr^
c 2
22
M
S
!sS
da
b3T
sc
/ \~
s
c
d 3
m
m
Q
»*.
<s*
Cn
£7
as»
GRAMMY utIAMBERL/VM
tCoPTßiomto.)
2h^r
I had a most awful sore throat one winter and sister was
quite anxious about me. She said that few realise the seriousness of a sore throat nor
know that it indicates a weakness of the bronchial tubes. If neglected the sufferer
becomes most susceptible to influenza or pneumonia and often some chronic complaint
develops. But I knew that a day in bed out of the wind and draught and a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
would soon put me right. It only took a
few doses to remove the irritation, soothe
and heal the inflamed tubes, and sister was
surprised when she saw me up and about
next morning as well as ever.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is certainly
a wonderful medicine. It gives tone to the
weakened tissues of the throat, strengthens
the bronchial tubes, and at the same time
builds up the system.
"Nov be sure
Vou get
Chamberlain's
d faetnex
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain's'
Tablets are a new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Liver and Bowels ; they have met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Liver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver. Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used they are a most popular medicine and everyone who has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PILLS and you would never wish to take another
dose of piils after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they’ are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle in
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. per box.
®iijj
»!*?
kcum
He
35e*t /3a£y \
Zbairnty UtUey&maiU *
jrfatoMTflauedTfttflL
CLconifonation'fraSCfimfiy
/$aH&.
na& Jtffod thctMC of ymW&MIL
&tamU, aimiyd. fne-zmm&rrf
q 4 &sknl ISoUry Start,
(OXLfe fasarinfi&,sv!utin££,s
26Jcuntie&on St, SydaeyJf&W
WHAT A DELIGHT
to shave with a Razor that will do its work clean
and slick in one act —that is, without a second
lathering. This is the unfailing experience of the
man who uses
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
price: 10/6— post free.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/0.
Pair in Double Case, 80/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post t ree. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORfiE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
An Old and Trusted Friend
with Hundreds of Shavers.
** and O/j
Marine, Stationary & Portabie Engines,
<•
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and
DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loft us Street,
SYDNEY.
e
I! any illustration appearing in
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tbe
Manager, who will quote you price for it


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Missing Friends.
{Cartridge.—if Miss edith ann partridge,
1 last head of in 1903 from Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, will communicate with the Trustees, Executors •
and Agency Company, Limited, 412 Collins Street.
Melbourne, she will learn something to her advantage.
Estate of Susannah Josephine Dennett,
Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that any person
able to give information regarding the
whereabouts of HENRY GEORGE DEN-
NETT, formerly of Tackandah, in the State
of Queensland, who was last heard of at
Birdsville in the said State in or about the
year 1900 should at once communicate with
the undersigned.
Dated this 26th day of April, 1917.
OWEN, ROLLISON & ABBOTT.
Scottish House,
King William Street,
Adelaide.
Solicitors for the Public Trustee. Adelaide.
'
■in
m
\
- i
■ -
■
mm
WILLIAM ERNEST COOKE, who was recently in
*’ the employ of Mr. Buchanan, of Tallangatta,
Victoria, should communicate at once with Messrs.
LOWE & CO., of 2 Temple Gardens, London, England,
Solicitors, who have news to his advantage.
WILL OLIVER BODINNAR
WILLIAM PATTERSON, who
were in the employ of Sir Samuel
McCaughey, North Yanco, N.S.W., during
1907-8, or anyone knowing their where-
abouts, please communicate with ROBT. E.
GRANT, 29 McLean Street, Plantation,
Glasgow, Scotland.
FRANK GRAHAM.
JNFORMATION is required as to the
whereabouts of FRANK GRAHAM, for-
merly of Ambleside, Westmorland, who
emigrated to Australia about 28 years ago.
The last letter received from him by his
mother was written from Brisbane, and he
then stated he was about to go up coun-
try in charge of cattle. He has not since
been heard of. If he wishes to benefit under
his Mother’s Will he must send in a claim to
us before the 6th March, 1918. Anyone who
can give any information is requested to
communicate with GEORGE GATEY &
SON, Solicitors, Ambleside, Westmorland,
England.
MINUTES pay pounds, demonstrating
new £2 Adding Machine. Wonder-
ful Invention. Adds, subtracts, multiplies. Does
work equal to £6O machine. Five-year guarantee.
Sells everywhere. Splendid profits. Write quick for
trial offer and protected territory. DEPT. X 4
CALCULATOR CORP. Grand Rapids, Michigan,
U.S.A.
A
George hotel,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne-
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260,
4 lines.
P.O. Box 1610.
Telegram**—
Australia,
Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH. Manager.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it
Amusement*.
Harry Rickard* Tivoli Theatres I.til.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
yiVOLI THEATRE, SYl> X E Y
Commencing SATURDAY, MAY 19, at the Matinee.
NELLIE STEWART
in the First Act
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
Special Cast in Support.
VAUDEVILLE IN ADDITION,
including MR. TALLEUR ANDREWS.
Plan Nicholson’s & Tivoli.
“J*IVOL,I THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS. j
Overwhelming Success
MISS ADA REEVE
In a complete New Programme.
BRILLIANT SUPPORTING CO.
Plan W. H. Glen’s.
H B R M A .1 E STY ’ 8." S Y I> N E Y.
• ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 1.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSONS
Greatest of Pantomime Productions,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callow’s.
P ALAO E THEA T K E. SYI> X KL
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.
J. and N. TAIT'S NEW COMEDY CO.
in
TURN TO Trttf TITGiIT.
A MASTER PLAY OF MTRTH.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
sdf
tkiamilk plays at
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.tn.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Rox Plan at Paling's.
. Prices: 6d. to 2s. (id.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd., |
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams I
Amusement Co. Ltd).
VF. Rarrixotox Miu.rn, Managing Director. j
Yoti haven't seen S.vrinev until j’on've visited tile
UNION PICT IT It R THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best lilins.
Continuous Performances. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Rahuisgtos .\ln.i,i:it. Managing Director.
Bit .M VJIiSTV’S THEATRE, M IOLItOL ItNE.
Direction J.. C. WILLI AMSON LTD.
SATURDAY, MAY 19.
H
J. C. Williamson Ltd. revive the successful and
popular musical play,
DIGIT JTNIvS.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TIIEA T It E It OYA L, .11 IOI.ISOUKN B.
» Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MAY 19.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present their specially-
organised Dramatic Co. in
LONDON PI»TDK.
A New Play of Human Nature and Human Interest.
Prices as usual.
M lOI.HOU ItNJS.
FULLER.
D It IN C KSS'S TlllO A T It 10.
Gov. Director: BEN J.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FULLER RECORD-BREAKING
PANTOMIME,
TilK BDNYJP.
Special Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
KING’S THEATRE, .MIOI.ItO U It N eT
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. Sc N. TAIT’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY.
YEIIY GOOD KDDIK.
A RIOT OF LAUGHTER.
Produced by BARRY LUPINO.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C. 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
WILLIAM S. HART
in
THE GUNFIGHTER.
and WILLIAM DESMOND
in
THE ICED BULLET.
jy| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING MONDAY, MAY 21.
WHAT EVERY GIRL SHOULD KNOW.
A Frank, Direct Film.
BRTTANNTA~THEATRE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to ll'p-m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
sd
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
I’u 11 particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
fsd
f
Test Calox
FREE
prove its unquestionable superiority
for yourself. Your name and address,
attached to this advertisement and
mailed to Calox Dept.', Geo. Wills and
Co. Ltd., 480 Collins Street, Melbourne,
with two penny stamps enclosed to
cover postage, will tiring back a big
free sample tin of
The Oxygen Tooth Powder.
Calox yields up oxygen in its active
or nascent state, and it is nascent
oxygen that is Nature’s Germicide
and destroyer of dead organic matter.
This powerful active agent purges
every recess—but test
Calox at our expense.
Calox is procurable from
AIL CHEMISTS g
LEACIXG STORES.
F.17/5/’l7.
XO iVj
FOR RHEUMATISM AND GOUTY
AFFECTIONS AND OTHER
LOCAL PAINS USE
HORA
5 CO
Trade Mark Registered
Camphorated
Petroleum Jelly
For sale at all chemists and general stores, in glass
bottles and tin tubes. Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
Price
£9llO/-
sd
TheAMBEROLA
will appeal to YOU
Every lover of good music should have an
Edison “Amberola.” It brings to your home
the best the world of music has to offer.
The Edison Diamond “Amberola” SO, illus-
trated, is a delightful instrument. No
needles to change; plays Blue Amberol
Records. Price £9/10/-
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for demon-
stration, or write for catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Used the
World Over
fsd
MOTOR
...CARS
*
f.
r
MCfe
sC
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—
so ‘Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘Wincarnis’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
f
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over io 000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-H4Y
•Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. Yon
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.


Don’t Despair
Cuticura Soap
£
and Ointment
Will quickly restore your skin
to health and beauty.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE’S
SPECIALISE
TWO
l//VES
0 S
$
0
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
I
mi
K
mm
520 GEORGES 1- SYDNEY
LC /iONTER § T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
Wk
©
&
1111
ELEV .410 “Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY .22 Lons Rifle
“E” Brand
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELFY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S. W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L” LONDON
f/A
m
tSS2lik
X
m
m
BEAUTY SECRETS
REVEALEP.
By “MIMOSA ”
HAIR CULTURE.
DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
* v there is really no need to have poor or
impoverished hair if a few commonsense
rules are observed. First of all, hair tonics
must be freshly-made in order to obtain the
best results, and thousands of women, and
men, too, are now making up their own
lotions with most satisfactory results. For
this purpose they obtain from the chemist’s
one ounce of boranium and mix this with
pint of bay rum, quite a simple formula,
and according to all accounts remarkably
effective. This simple home-made lotion
quickly removes all dandruff, and creates a
growth of new, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman. One word
in conclusion. Do not experiment with
your hair, long suffering though it may bo.
Nature will surely revolt if you continue
to subject the hair and scalp to all kinds
of fanciful treatments. Employ a tonic by-
all means if such is required, but having
found a satisfactory one use no other.
GOOD SHAMPOO IMPORTANT,
THE hair should be allowed to breathe,
and the greasy film around each strand
must be removed with a mild non-
alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be tabooed.
The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stal-
lax granules in a cup of hot water. It
stimulates the scalp to healthy action, and
at the same time leaves the hair in that
soft, fluffy condition so much admired. Any
chemist can supply you with an original
packet of stallax, sufficient to make twenty-
five or thirty shampoos.
MAGIC FOR SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
IT is astounding the number of women
who suffer from unsightly growths, of
hair on the face, and it will come as a
piece of good news to know that there is a
simple substance, known as powdered phe-
minol, which will remove it immediately
and permanently. Mix a small quantity
into a thin paste with a little water, and
apply to the objectional growths. In two
minutes all trace of the hair will have
entirely vanished, and your skin will be as
soft and smooth, as a child’s.
RENEWING COMPLEXIONS.
THE average woman of to-day is usually
satisfied if her complexion is passably
pretty, little knowing that an exquisite
skin is now within her reach, providing she
has the good sense to stop using cheap made-
up preparations and adopt what has now
become known as the mercolised-wax habit.
It is a pity that every woman in the land
cannot be apprised of this simple method.
The few to whom its virtues are already
known have complexions that are the envy
of all their friends, and, as is usually the)
case, the majority of them refuse to divulge
the secret. However, the formula has now
been verified, and is known as mercolised
wax. Inquiry at several chemists’ shops
have resulted in ascertaining that this sub-
stance has been known to the select few for
some years as a complexion boautifier, but it
is only until quite recently that it has been
used to any extent for this purpose. It was
also explained how mercolised wax renews
the complexion, but as this is rather tech-
nical it is not proposed to repeat it here. It
will be Sufficient to say that through some
peculiar action the wax absorbs the dead
and discolored outer cuticle, revealing the
fresh young complexion which every woman
has underneath. The process occupies about
ten days, and the change is so gradual and
imperceptible that no discomfort whatever
is caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less and the wax may be used as often as
desired.
BLACKHEADS FLY AWAY.
A PRACTICALLY instantaneous remedy
for blackheads, greasy skins and
enlarged pores, recently discovered, is
now coming into general use in the boudoir.
It is very simple, harmless and pleasant.
Drop a stymol tablet, obtained at the
chemist’s, in a tumbler full of hot water.
After the effervescence has subsided bathe
the face in the liquid, using a small sponge
or soft cloth. In a few minutes dry the
face and the offensive blackheads will come
right off on the towel. Also the large oily
pores immediately close up and efface them-
selves naturally. The greasiness disappears
and the skin is left smooth, soft and cool.
This simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days to
ensure the permanence of the result. [i
sdf
b.
Made throughout in the
Empire from Australasian Wool by
Leicester Workpeople
4S
Underwear
New "Olympic” Brand
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are made,
the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
percentage of cotton —bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular
lines. Sole manufacturers
JASON
UNDERWEAR
CO.
Ab
68.
Get Jason guaranteed
unshrinkable Under- '
wear for every member
of your family. Your dealer
will supply you.
LEICESTER.
ENG.
I
CUicenua
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
"pHE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every, organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Ansemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any'of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality,, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness” and well-being.
■ Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote : —“ Impoverished blood can be made rich and good
by means of Iron 'Jedo ds,’ the most effective and desirable treatment
A FORTNIGHT'S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women ISON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by The Jelloid’ Co.. 205, City Road, London, England.
(Pronounced Jell-Uoyds)
The Inky Way.
“Ghoul” : In the old days, when we were
young and morbid, some of us wanted to
write morgue verse, but J F. Archibald, then
in The Bulletin’s chair, gave his fiat, that
that work was the sacred preserve of Victor
Daley. 1 had every qualification for it my-
self except the poetic. My daily gruesome
duty was to get the key of .he Melbourne
Morgue from the Princes’ Bridge constable,
and see if there were any cold customers.. On
a summer dog-day 1 might find the place open.
There would be the Coroner’s fat, jolly police-
man Hoey, in shirt sleeves, with cutty pipe
in jaw, hoseing with copious sluices an array
of ladies and gents on the slabs. Hoey
would relieve my melancholy with a hearty
laugh, and the remark “Business brisk!” I
remember once seeing the body of an infant.
Said Hoey: “Look at this one! Finest
child you ever saw, and yet the poor girl
that brought it into the world had to throw
it into the river to keep ‘respectable.’ ” Have
often wondered since how many companies
of Anzacs have gone into the Yari’a.
* * * *
Second-Lieut. Charles D. Scott, a Banana-
land inkywa.vfarer, has received the Military
Cross as evidence of his bravery in action.
When the war started he was one of the first
of the craft in Brisbane to scrap the pen
for the sword. At that time he w r as on
the Courier ; previously he was a member of
the Queensland Times staff. From Gal-
lipoli he was invalided to England, thence,
on recovery, to France.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The modern habit of long life
comes hardest on humorists. If Frank
Burnand had only died at 55 or 60, like so
many of his Bohemian predecessors, his fame
would have been greater. He was a fine
example of the punning humor of the ’7o’s
and ’SO’s, but with later developments he
was quite out of touch. His “Happy
Thoughts”-—the earlier volumes, before the
vein got worked out —are worth digging up
even now, as an almost uncanny study of
the psychology of a shy man. Then came
along the clever and original crowd of young
writers in the ’9o’s, and his style, now stereo-
typed, was not in demand. He still seemed
a fixture as editor of PuncVi ; but at last
he had to be pushed out, as.kindly as might
be, but quite firmly, in favor of Owen
.Seaman.
“Cyanide”: When the much-boomed Ash-
mead Bartlett was being entertained by Mel-
bourne journalists, artists and .X. N. (etc.)
Tait, a complaint was made by war-corres-
pondent Chas. P. Smith that the daily jour-
nalist got no credit for his most brilliant
police paragraphs and his most dashing foot-
ball reports. But when election time comes,
he might have added, we get our chance.
For example, witness the Argus of May 2:
RECIPES WANTED.
“Charlott” (Mount Egerton).—To sugar cure pork.
,“L.A.” (Muranda), —Bay rum and rosemary hair
tonic.
“School Ma’am” (Richmond). —To preserve green
ginger.
“A.Y.Z.” (Yea). —Ginger beer and ginger stout.
(Stella M. Allan, 197 Collins Street.)
* * * *
The Sydney estate of John Norton paid
in probate duty £7113 16s. lid. The N. S.
Wales estate was valued at £69,512.
* * * *
“Muskctoon”: Jack Mclntyre, editor and
proprietor of the Peak Hill Express, near
Forbes (N.S.W.), struck bad health lately,
and a committee of townspeople ordered him
to take a holiday by the sea, and promised
to keep the wolf from the office door while
he was away. In addition they gave the
sick man a wad of about £lOO to help make
his spell interesting. Mclntyre* who is not
a young man by any means, had tried sev-
eral times to go to the war, but the nearest
he got to the firing line was Dubbo camp,
where the doctor passed him out.
“S.T.S.” : In “The Boad to Hogan’s Gap,”
in “Banjo” Paterson’s new book of poems,
an out-back Australian tells a stranger that
if once you get off that track “You haven’t
got the whitest hope of ever getting back.”
Clearly this is intended to mean “haven’t
got the slightest hope.” It’s an unusual
misprint.
* * * *
“Ferro”: I don’t regard the literal sins
of proof-scanners as fair game for comment
but would respectfully beg the Melb. Argus
deskman to explain this statement regarding
the claims of the Australian fighters—one
killed, the other wounded on April 19:
“Both officers were the youngest sons of the
late Mr. George Throssell, C.M.G., at one
time Premier of Western Australia.”
A SONG OF THE PEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet's wife has need of gloves,
Or Cossack boots she’d wear;
Forthwith a jaded pen he shoves
To write for her a pair.
The fancies of his teeming brain
Are changed to food and dress; .
A ballad means a peek of peas,
A roundelay a pound of c-heese,
A sonnet buys some cress.
The poet’s children must be fed.
It is a sad mistake
For czars of lofty rhyme to wed:
How their poor brains must ache
As gentle songs of love they write,
Which have to rhyme and scan,
Well knowing they do but indite
Addresses to their goddess bright,
To pay the baker -man.
The poet must his thirst appease
(The hardest task he’s got!)
The wheels of prosody to grease
And stop them running hot.
From rhymes and metres never free,
lie labors in his den;
And, while he makes his songs of glee,
The meaning learns of pen-u-ry-
The wages of the pen!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


IV \
Feeding of
NO attempt to provide a
correct system for the
progressive feeding of'
Infants was ever successfully
carried out until the ‘Allen -
burys’ series of Infants’ Foods
were introduced. So successful
have the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
Nos. I, 2 and 3 proved, that
whenever a child is denied the
privilege of the mother’s milk
they are indispensable. Gratifying evidence
of their remarkable value in the feeding
of infants from birth is constantly coming
to hand. The following is a copy of one
of many such voluntary letters received
from Medical Men, Nurses and Parents
resident in nearly all parts of the world.
A NURSE WRITES:
“I am pleased to say I have used your Foods 1,2 and 3 for the
last twenty years and have found none better. The
most delicate baby ever born I nursed and reared on the
Foods until he was 3 years old, and now he is 18 YEARS, and
a strong healthy boy nearly 6 leet high and as rosy as an
apple. You can make whatever use you like of this as I
should like your Foods and other things to be more used in
future, as instead of making fat alone they make
bone and muscle, which is what children need.
(Signed) NURSE DAVIE.
The practical results from a continually extending use of the
‘Allenburys’ Foods, prove beyond doubt that children thrive excep-
tionally well on them. Such children are healthy and well grown; the
flesh is firm, without excess of fat and the formation of bone is solid.
3
I
‘Sllenburgs'FcDds
The Best Alternative to Human Milk.
MILK FOOD No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
r"
«SESSS
MALTED FOOD No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys* Rusks (Malted).
A useful addition to baby's dietary when JO months old and after.
PF* Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management
S 4. pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market Street, Sydney.
Established 1715.
'm
IBM
(Ilf)
Booci'i
ill
me
nfcnoia
Hi
Rwan
tHJ'Mlirliliirl
ÜbBB
Ifea
»o; £>; g r
□rah
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and ail Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
patented,
aw ill
Address Dept. C-14.
Make Your
Own Cans.
We have machines exactly suited to
your needs, whether your output is
1000 or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obliga-
tion, prices and pictures of machines
adapted to your needs. Send us samples
of your cans, or drawings with com-
plete dimensions, and state the quantity
you make.
Correspondence in all Languages.
The Max Ams Machine Company
Bridgeport, Connecticut, U.S.A.
W. E. HUGHES & CO., London, E.C., England, who also
specialise in Tin Plates and Black Plates, and solicit inquiries.
The Bulletin
If any illustration appearing in o.iie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
EVERY KIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
■
TENNIS
We carry a Fine Range of Materials
from Leading Makers.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap, full size 6/-
C. 8.8. Special 9/0
M.S. Champion 11/0
C. 8.8., cork handle .. 13/0
C. 8.8., Quadruple .... 15/0
M.S. Haymarket 22/0
Haymarket, Special ... 27/0
Haymarket. Selected .. 35/-
Haymarket, Ex. Special 37/0
Ayre’s Handicap 10/0
Ay re’s A 1
Ayre’s Double Central
Ayre’s Champion . . .
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazenger’s 11 enshaw.
Slazenger's Demon . .
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s E.G.M. ..
Slazenger’s Doherty .
Slazenger’s Stadium .
17/6
18/9
25/-
47/6
18/-
88/6
29/-
88/6
42/6
47/6
(Postage on Racket : N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS,
Each. Doz„
Grey Regulation ./6
Dunlop Champion 1/G • 1
Each. Doz.
Avre's Champion 1/9 20/-
Slazenger’s Champ. 1/9 20/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
STEAM-TARREB NETS.
Waterproof, full size 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Waterproof, wire head line, 13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/*
Nets, Presses, Markers, Tapes and all Sundries
Stocked. Tennis Rackets Repaired and Re-strung.
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
-®1
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
1
1
m
v
I
1
m
BOXING
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Setoff
real leather, special value 8/6
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms 9/6
C. 8.8., Fighting:, best tan napa, laced palms, C or 8 oz 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 14/6, 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 16/6, 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, G or
8 oz 24/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, GorB oz 25/- 30/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” officially adopted and exclusively
used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Personally recommended by Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 27/6
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, 60z... 35 /.
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Bri . of 4
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 6/-'
~ Best napa, „ „ m /
„ Tan Leather, ~ „ .... 0/3
„ very superior, „ „ .!!!!!!.*!"'!”!! 10/fi
Laced, 12 /« *2',*
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)'
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND
Tin. wide (Post 4d.) ’ 7/6each
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 3/6 & 4/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3ioz. (Post Gd.) 18/6 pair
Militaiy Training Quarters and Camps supplied with All
Kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
f
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide rangre, including: the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging- Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7 jq jq
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast 8/6, 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and IiveIy—
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made qj m
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 9/6, 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 52/6
Above balls fitted with Moseley’s best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
''Ml Cloves 2/9, 3/9, 4/9 pr. Mitts •• •• 2/6 pr.
Punching Platforms 33/-, 50/-, 80/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/6, 4/6, 5/- „
FOR SMOKERS.
ZIG-ZAG CIGARETTE TOBACCO, highest-grade imported. Very mild. Will not
dry the throat. Famed for its quality and purity. loz. packet, with book of
„ ..... 9d. (post free).
SUNOL TOBACCO, highest-grade Virginian, natural aroma. Awarded 4 gold medals.
Dark or light. Plug and cut. 2oz. packet, lid (post free) ; a pound, 6/6 (post free).
Send for copies of our new edition illustrated Sports List
Anglers' Guide ( B 2). All Sportsmen should possess them.
( B 1) and “Sure Catch”
Post free to any address.
ae
1/
msnwLm's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
and TOBACCONISTS
m
City Sports Depot
119 Kind Si also at
Newcastle £Brisbane


Beautiful Lizette Parkes Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Miss
LIZETTE
PARKES
(from a
photo.)
A
There is no Australian artiste who
has won greater recognition from so
large a section of the Australian pub-
lic than Miss LIZETTE PAJtKES.
Brilliant, versatile, charming, it is
hard to describe Miss Parkes. She is
now delighting Sydney audiences as
Betty Barston in “Turn to the Bight’’
at the Palace Theatre, Sydney. Miss
Parkes is a true New Discovery Girl,
and writes as follows: —
“Dear Sirs, —
“I am writing to tell you
what a strong advocate I am
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discov-
ery. It is the only thing
that does me any good when
I have a bad cold or cough,
or when my throat feels sore
or strained. During the past
two years I have used it
on numerous occasions, and
always with the best results.
It is an excellent remedy,
and I never feel safe to start
on a trip without having a
bottle of it in my bag.
“With very best, wishes
for ‘New Discovery,’
“I am, sincerely yours,
“(Sgd.) LIZETTE PARKES.”
Not “How Cheap”
but “ How Good ”
is* the watchword of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. When you buy medicine you
want something' that is effective, something tiiat will get to the root of the matter
at once, without in any way upsetting the system; and this is just exactly what Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery does. It acts directly upon the Throat, Chest and Dungs,
and in no way upsets the Digestive Organs, or in any way puts the system out of
tune. Other remedies may have been considered good when your grandparents
were children, and other remedies may be sold by the pint and at cheap prices, but
an up-to-date remedy for quality and effectiveness will be found in Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery for Coughs and Colds. The price is 1/6, and this size bottle is often
all that is necessary for two or three in the family. Larger bottles, holding two
and a half times the quantity are sold at 3/-, and these are the cheaper for large
families.
Remember, when you are ill. it is quality not quantity that counts. Take a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery w*t-b von to-night.
ewDiscover
i
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
DOCTOR DIET is the
BEST PHYSICIAN.
Also Doctor Cheeryman anti Doctor
Quiet, says an old saying. And there’s
a world of truth in it. For good health
and clear brains you can have no better
diet than
“REX” Lorraine
Smoked Sausages
1 and .
“REX'* Pork Sausage
These pure, wholesome products are prepared in
the model “Hex” Kitchens, and come to you all
ready cooked.
Try “Rex” Lorraine Smoked Sausages for break-
fast. Their appetising flavor, tenderness and
juicyness will make “cheery men” of all, and give
the family a good start for the day’s work. “Rex”
Lorraine Smoked Sausages are a new delicacy,
right up to the well-known “Rex” high standard.
sdf
To serve hot simply immerse the tin in boiling water for 20
minutes.
When you get home late and there’s no time to cook a dinner, don’t
compromise with a “scratch” meal. A tin of “Rex” Pork Sausage
makes an appetising, wholesome meal in a jiffy. Place the tin in
boiling water for 15 minutes, and they are ready to serve. A rich
gravy is packed in the tin.
Ask Your Grocer for these “REX ’ Delicacies.
UNCHEON
DdEE
Also keep a Tin of
“REX” Luncheon Cheese
by you. Take a little after
meals as an aid to digestion.
THE “REX" CANNED DELICACIES INCLUDE
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues, in jelly-, lib. tins.
“Rex” Hunch Tongues, in jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues, in jelly, 1?<11>. ami
21b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in soz. deco-
rated tins and soz. enamel jars.
Also “Rex” Pard, for cooking purposes,
lib. prints.
Fog'g'itt, Jones Co., Ltd.,
Curers of " Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pore Food Products. .
In the Ashes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I FOUND the cold grey ashes of a fire
Which these two lit, whom Vengeance
followed fast,
Although the dragging lawyer-vines were
cast
To stay the following foosteps—Hate’s de-
sire,
Breaking all barriers that the scrub set up,
Thirsty to fill with blood its brazen cup.
I found the ashes that such memories keep.
Tall ironbarks were round them, scored of
trunk;
And here and there a wan bush flower,
drunk
With sun and dew, and falling into sleep,
Yet murmuring nothing of the vows it heard,
Though its pale heart was redder by a word.
And overhead a bronze-wing in the boughs
1 tippled swift pinions, and a pink galah
Strutted in seeding grass, yet kept afar
From that grey ring that wed to Life’s
carouse
Pursuing Death. The blue smoke o’er the
trees
Betrays no more the rendezvous of these.
With stirless leaves the ironbarks look down,
Yet they must know that never human
tongue
Can tell of how those lovers kissed and clung,
And how grey eyes struck flame from eyes
of brown.
At least they did not live to see Love pass
Into a sear of ashes on the grass.
Beneath her hair they told me, when she lay
Ready for burial, in the small bush inn,
There was one bullet mark to pay her sin.
Her small white hands were folded. Did she
pray?
After her death? (In life not much, I vow !)
Pray to the God who would not hear her
now!
But he died harder. When I saw her there
I understood how„ he would fight for life,
Although he had no weapon but a knife
With which to parry bullets. She was fair,
And Death was not an easy thing to choose
When there was life —and life with her—to
lose!
But they were very quiet when they slept
On those rough trestles. So wo laid them
down
Under the weeping myalls. Then to town
One for the sergeant went. But I —l kept
Pact with the promptings of a strange desire
And rode to find their little burned-out fire.
There was a wattle blooming at the edge
Of that thick timber, and it spilled its gold
Before my horse’s hoofs as though it told
Of golden reeds that rustle through. Life’s
sedge,
Making papyrus over which to write
Record of hours that were all too bright.
For mortals living. Death had given them
these
Ere for himself the price he claimed. I know
There was some special glory in the glow
Of that small camp-fire shining through the
trees
And that, ere each crisp twig on it they set.
Often across its warmth their hands had
met.
T left my horse, and idly, in the cold
Of that dull pyre, with gum-switch stirred.
It was no sob of shattered hopes I heard
(Dead leaf and chip that once were fairy
gold!),
No hieroglyph of graves in cinders spelled—
One quick, sweet laugh was all the ashes
hold !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Harbor Lights.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SMITII discovered that he was in love
with Jones’s wife, but he couldn’t find
an opportunity to tell her so.
Not that Jones suspected and deliberately
frustrated his intentions, but being an
obtuse, egotistical individual, he took it for
granted that Smith’s frequent visits were
due to that gentleman’s fond desire to bask
in the light of superior knowledge and in-
telligence. Therefore, when Smith called of
an evening, hoping to find the baldheaded
Jones taking a night off, and his saintly and
wife all alone he was always dis-
appointed. There sat Jones, in slippers and
smoking-cap (both decorated by the fair
hand of his wife), holding forth upon ques-
tions of the day and laying down the law
entirely to his own satisfaction. It says
much for the depth and sincerity of Smith’s
budding love that he could sit through these
tirades without doing personal injury to the
tirader. But Love has ever bestowed
strength and endurance upon his victims;
and Smith was able to .keep a calm exterior
and appear to listen attentively, the while
he made expressive eyes at Mrs. Jones. This
method of telling a hidden and devouring
affection is always unsatisfactory; and is
liable to be mistaken for the outward and
visible sign of inward physical discomfort.
Smith’s training and environment had
made him cunning and dulled that code of
honor we are all supposed to carry about
with us. Ife was in trade —the hardware
trade : —and from tender years had learnt the
gentle art of deception in all its branches. It
is not to be wondered then that commercial
morality and social honor should, in times
of stress, become somewhat jumbled in his
mind, and in seeking a means to smooth the
way for his declaration to Mrs. Jones his
methods savored more of the business than
the social code.
If you are in the hardware line it is an
accomplishment to be able to produce, from
a cracked or otherwise damaged article, the
virgin ring that proclaims it to the buyer as
a worthy purchase. It is, I say, an accom-
plishment : and in trade is not only coun-
tenanced but commended. But should you
treat your next-door neighbor or dearest
friend in a like manner —well, you would
soon know in what light your conduct was
regarded. When I say Smith’s method of
procedure fell short of the social code, I
have very plainly told you he didn’t play
fair. He failed tu discern that what you
do from eight o’clock till six is a very differ-
ent matter from what you do from six till
eight.
Smith didn't go to Jones and in
a straightforward manner tell him the
state (2 his affections and desire to
be allowed to speak with Mrs. Jones. He
hadn’t even the decency to send a fictitious
message that would get Jones out of the way
for an hour or so comfortably and without
causing him any inconvenience. His train-
ing wouldn’t let him. He must do the smart
thing, in business and out of it.
This is what Smith did. A friend of his
was part-owner of a motor-boat; and he
begged the loan of it for a few hours one
evening. Then he bragged to Jones about
his boat, pretending that he also was a part-
owner, and offered to take Jones for a run
round the harbor when he had a night to
spare. Of course, Jones had every night to
spare, so they arranged for the one follow-
ing. Smith had often been out with the
owners of the boat and knew how to manage
it. He took Jones all over the place. They
started at seven, and at about eleven were in
the vicinity of the Heads. Jones began to
feel the lateness of the hour and suggested
that it was time to go home. But Smith
seemed to be in an excursive frame of mind,
and insisted that before turning home they
must examine, at close quarters, a red light
that showed intermittently just inside the
Heads. Although Jones demurred, Smith put
her head for the light, and was soon along-
side. Then he begged Jones to hang on to
iron uprights that supported the light and
steady the boat while he looked to her
engine, which, he declared, was going wrong.
Jones clutched the floating buoy with a
strong grip, but the boat seemed to persist-
ently refuse to come alongside and stay
there. Smith bellowed to him to hold hard ;
and as he did so he felt the boat gradually
receding until only liis feet remained over
her side. Then the engine sparked up, and
he fell with a plop into the water, only his
mighty grip on the buoy saving him from a
'watery grave. He yelled frantically as he
slowly drew himself on to the buoy, and
shuddered at the thought of the death that
had so nearly been his. But Smith and the
boat was nowhere to be seen; and faintly
over the water came the chug, chug of the
motor as she went swiftly on her way. He
was deserted! Marooned on a bobbing buoy
in a waste of water, miles from home, and
out of the way of any hope of rescue till
daylight.
What did Smith mean? Was this some
beastly joke? Why did he want him out of
the way? Had he anything Smith wanted?
Smith knew he hadn’t any money. This was
Thursday, and he wouldn’t be paid till to-
morrow. What did it mean? For long he
sat huddled on his slippery perch and pon-
dered wretchedly, till the ceaseless rolling
of the buoy caused him to feel intensely un-
comfortable. With an effort he parted with
his carefully-prepared and thoroughly-enjoyed
dinner, and sank exhausted, still clutching,
in frenzied embrace, the ironwork of the
buoy.
All through that long night Jones crouched
on his insecure refuge, shivering and ex-
hausted. He wondered how long it would
take him to perish of starvation, and just
how long a man could live between drinks.
To die of thirst in a waste of water and
within sight of land —could fate play a man
a more scurvy trick? Even and anon he
dozed fitfully, to wake with a start as he
felt his grasp on the buoy slackening and his
body steadily slipping into the dark abyss
below. In his efforts to keep awake he cast
his eyes upon the blinking .light and endea-
vored to keep count of the intervals that
succeeded each show of the illumination ; but
as the light bobbed with irritating regularity
he gave it up in disgust.
Even a long night on a bobbing buoy must
come to an end ; and the first streak of grey .
dawn discovered the worn-out Jones keeping
his unstable vigil. While daylight was still
in the throes of birth and earth and sky
seemed one misty pall, Jones could make out
an indistinct mass coming in his direction
and hope beat high in his heart. As the
mass approached by the inner channel he
could discern that it was a collier, appar-
ently bound for the north, and his heart sank
like lead. Of what use to be rescued if
hours, perhaps an entire day, must elapse
before he could return home and investigate
the depths of Smith’s perfidy! No, he must
let the ship pass by: and he painfully
erawled to the other side of the buoy in case
some inquisitive member of the crew should
espy him and effect a rescue perforce.
The hours crawled slowly by, but no sun
came to instil warmth into his chilled
bones. Instead, a persistent drizzle added
to his sickly misery, and Jones came near
to blasphemy as his cramped position began
to tell a prickly tale.
It must have been five o’clock before his
solitude was again broken—this time by a
tug drawing a punt loaded with slime. The
tug passed without noticing his frantic
efforts to attract attention; but the man on
the punt sighted him and manoeuvred so as
to bring his clumsy barque within hailing
distance of the buoy. An almost unintelligi-
ble conversation then ensued, the gist of
which was that Jones couldn’t swim and
that Smith was up to some underhand work,
for which he’d make him pay dearly when he
got ashore. The man on the punt could
make little sense of this; but as Jones
couldn’t swim he must hang on till the tug
was returning, when he would be picked up.
He did ; and about an hour afterwards his
rescue was effected. He could give no
satisfactory account of himself. He hadn’t
been wrecked, his boat hadn’t broken down :
in fact, he had no reason at all to give for
his presence on the buoy in direct contraven-
tion of the notice placed thereon, that all
trespassers would be prosecuted. The cap-
tain of the tug was sorry—he said so—but it
was his duty to give Jones in charge as soon
as they reached land. Which he did.
As it was Jones’s first offence, he hoped
for a fine, and prayed for a speedy appear-
(Continued on next page.)


m
3
w
FOR
ADVISED TO HAVE VEINS CUT OUT
Another ZAM-BUK TRIUMPH.
MKS. C. SYEB, wlio lives at 27 Frank-
lin Street, Glebe, Sydney, says:—
“While going: about my household
duties I came in contact with a piece
of wire-netting, which entered and tore a vari-
cose vein in my leg, as well as cutting the
leg itself severely. Blood-poison set in, and
my leg inflamed and broke out something
frightfully. It swelled up to a great size and
the inflammation extended right down to the
foot, my toes being hardly discernible. I
could not sleep at night, for no matter in
what position I put my leg I could get no
ease. The wound discharged profusely, and
altogether I suffered in a terrible manner.
Yt
'Hi
Mrs. Syer , who tells
of her wonderful cure
by Zam-Buki
“I tried all kinds of ointments and so-called remedies in vain; in fact,
they made my leg worse instead of better. Then a nurse recommended ine to
use a certain ointment, which not only did me no Stood, hut nearly drove ine
mad with pain, so coarse and stringent it must have been. I was strongly
advised to go to the hospital and have the veins cut out.
'.“Thus I suffered for three long years. At length, one day, 1 happened to
read of the wonderful liowers of Zam-Buk in cases of poisoned wounds and
kindred troubles, and I determined to try the Balm. So I purchased a pot of
Zam-Buk, and the very first application cooled the burning surfaces and took
out a lot of the irritation. Continuing the applications of Zam-Buk, the wound
was purified and cleansed of all poisonous matter, and the process of healing
commenced. The deep tissues knitted together nicely, and the sides of the
wound and outer surfaces contracted, until finally the Wound was completely
healed, and, thanks entirely to Zam-Buk, new healthy skin grew. Now my
leg is as sound as ever it was. I consider Zam-Buk stands in a class by itself,
apart from all other so-called healers, and I recommend it to all.”
Every Home Needs Zam=Buk.
am
ANT) HEALS.
Of all Chemists
and Stores at
16 per pot, or
3/6 for special
large family
size.
9'
' Slip the
Strop through
the Razor
Move the
Razor to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily—
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
Auto Strop
Safety Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk; and its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
blade renewals, and the time and trouble in
cleaning which every other safety razor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—The word “VALET” on RAZORS,
STROPS and BLADES indicates the genuine product of the
*"t«strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 61 New Oxford Street,
London.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compr s-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safety razor, firstquality
‘'Valet ” horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancet steel tested
“Valet" blades, the
whole n handome
leather-covered or
nickelcase, lined99 l(\
<4ut*&Wep
iMwuuui
ante before the magistrate. This was granted
.iccause the court happened to be sitting and
business slack; and at one o’clock Jones left
the court under oath to return within
twenty-four hours with two pounds.
Aow for his vengeance; but first to dis-
cover why Smith had wished him out of the
way. As his appearance was far from neat
and lus clothes were still wet, he decided his
first step must be home. Besides, his wife
might possibly be anxious, unless Smith had
called On liis return last night with some
lying message.
He arrived at his small villa and was
surprised to find the blinds drawn, the morn-
ing paper lying on the verandah, and the
milk-jug standing on the gas-box. The
general appearance of dust and disorder verv
clearly indicated, that no housewifely hand
lmd that morning performed the usual
duties. Jones was frankly puzzled. Was
lus wife was so overcome by his absence as
to be incapable of rising? lie must investi-
gate.
His key admitted him ; and an exploration
of the lower portions of the house further
disclosed the stoppage of the domestic
machinery. No breakfast had been prepared,
and the rooms were practically the same as
when he left the night before. His half-
smoked pipe lay upon the dining-room table,
his slippers were where he kicked them when
preparing to go out with Smith. Everything
seemed to breathe mystery. With a heavy
and apprehensive heart he ascended the
stairs, going straight for the conjugal bed-
room, where he felt sure he must find the
key, to the mystery.
The room was in utter confusion. Clo.tlies
were strewn everywhere, empty boxes lay on
the bed, under it, and in every available
space. The place looked as though it had
been ransacked by thieves. With this sus-
picion in liis mind, Jones stepped cautiously
round the bed, lialf-expectiug to find his
wife’s murdered body stretched beside it.
Instead he found, placed prominently on the
dressing-table, a letter addresed to himself.
With trembling hand Jones seized the
letter and staggered to the bed for support.
What horror might not be contained in that
innocent white envelope ! His brain refused
to conjecture, so he made what haste his
perturbation would allow in opening it. This
is what lie read :
It will be useless for you to follow me or attempt
to bring me back. I have fled with Henry, who will
keep me in better style than I have been accustomed
to and surround me with a purer love than you are
capable of. You are too middle aged and prosaic
to satisfy the longings of a romantic heart like
mine. Henry fulfils all I ask of a lover. He is
the prototype of the knights of old. Did he not
dare the perils of the deep for my sake? I hope
you will not be ill after the exposure of last night
and that you will change your clothes immediately
upon getting home. Do not shoot yourself; it would
bo useless.
Jones sat for some time with the letter in
his hand. He appeared to be stunned ; and a
casual observer might have suspected him of
planning a terrible revenge in which 'a revol-
ver played the star part. His sudden return
to animation and the gratified—almost
greedy—look that lit up his countenance,
quickly dispelled any such idea.
“Two hundred pounds!” he muttered
slowly; then he repeated the words over and
over again, each repetition gaining in volume
until it sounded like a paean of delight.
Hastening to the bureau which contained
his personal belongings, he unlocked the top-
most drawer and brought forth some papers
which he triumphantly waved aloft. Then,
without even waiting to obey his wife’s last
behest, he hurried to town, presented him-
self breathlessly at the office of the “Wife-
Desertion Insurance and Guarantee Com-
pany,” and Avithout the least difficulty
secured the amount of his policy—two
hundred pounds.
PEETA.
System.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
THE military train which feeds this part
of the firing-line sneaks up during the
night, and Driver Billjim and Guard
Jimbill have an exciting and sulphurous time
shunting the trucks into positions convenient
for rapid delivery to the khaki-clad con-
> signees in the morning. Through the dark
hours are heard, mingled with the wailing,
of shells, the distressed pantings and puffings
' of the engine as the wheels whirl round in
■ frantic efforts to grip the mudslimed rails.
When the alleged daylight comes, platoons
of infantry descend out of flip mists upon
the loaded trucks. Goods are pitched out
P>H -mell and with no regard for the wishes
of the other consignees. Each party grabs
its own and as much more as it thinks a
claim might be bluffed to. The infantry,
being able to mobilise in greater numbers
than other units, are, of course, easy win-
ners. Being Artillery, I’m always at a
disadvantage, for few men can be spared
from the guns’ just now; and at that hour
of the morning I can rarely muster more
than an army of fifteen. However, Ave sail
in valiantly where Might is Right, and the
odds are great, and make a system as we go
along.
For instance, our battery had been getting
rather severely strafed of late; and there
was a sudden demand for sandbags, rails,
“bursters,” etc., to protect us from small
shells and fragments at least. An order was
sent down to “the shop,” and, although I
was advised that the whole lot had been
sent up, when it came to claiming them I
found that the bursters had been “lost.”
Next day I wandered aimlessly amongst a
stack of stuff belonging to the —th Aust.
Inf. Div. There I saw a small pile of
bursters. Forty seconds later my party had
advanced unobtrusively and mustered for the
attack. I spoke a few words to them and
the first man swung a burster up on his
shoulder and retired. But he didn’t go far.
From behind a stack of sandbags appeared
a clay-covered Australian youngster, who in
a casual but business-like way placed his
rifle and bayonet across the front of my
leading brigand’s body and effectively barred
the progress.
“Whoa! Teh can’t take them away, lad !”
Affecting my most ingratiating manner I
approached the pair of them.
“It’s all right, sentry. I’m heavy
artillery, and this is some of our stuff that
was unloaded here by mistake, and I’m just
getting it away.”
“I dunno anything about that,” said
young Jimbill, with a cheerful grin. "But
I was posted guard over this stuff, and no
one can take anything away without a signed
order from Sergeant Fisher.”
“Oh—Sergeant Fisher!” I smiled loftily.
“This is my stuff and”
“Can’t ’elp it,” he grinned. “If Birdie
’imself was t’ come along he wouldn’t take
it while I'm here.”
Now, it isn’t the usual thing to hear such
heroic sentiments from the Australian, and
this youngster was evidently merely enjoying
himself.
“Come oh, come on, don’t act the goat,” I
said persuasively.
“Can't ’elp it,” he answered. “That’s what
I’m here for.”
The humorous possibility of internal
conflict in the British forces flashed through
my mind ; but as my artillerymen were not
armed I dismissed the idea and called up
the railway sergeant who was passing.
(Also he was a friend of mine.)
“Now, these bursters are artillery stores,
as anyone can see.” I began, “and I’m sure
you haven’t got the Division signature
for their receipt, have you?”
The railway sergeant produced a rain-
sodden, mud-smeared mass of paper from his
overcoat pocket and made a pretence of
looking through it.
“No, they haven’t signed for it yet,” he
answered (truthfully: he was rarely able
to get anyone’s signature for anything).
“But they’re artillery stuff all right, an’ you
can take ’em.’.’
Whereupon I called up my forces; and the
sentry promptly waggled his bayonet sug-
gestively and shooed them off again.
The railway sergeant looked at him with
a weary smile.
“Gawblimy. lad, you’ve got nothing t’ do
with this stuff,” he drawled. “It hasn’t been
signed over to your crowd yet. It belongs
to th’ railway still. It’s mine.”
But still the youngster wasn’t taking any ;
and seeing the bluff had failed, the railway
sergeant said I’d better fix it up with Ser-
geant Fisher ; and washing his hands of the
affair he slouched off in the slush.
Now, possibly the stuff in dispute did
belong to the —th Division. But I’d lost
much at their hands in the past. Our own
people required those bursters urgently; so
I decided to fall back on System.
I found Sergeant Fisher, a lieutenant and
a lance-Jack seated in a dug-out before a
(stolen) coal fire. I wished them the usual
ironical compliments of the season, and was
invited to sit on a cartridge-box near the
fire.
“By-the-way, do you know if that pile of
bursters I saw down, amongst your stuff whs
meant for us or for you?” I began with
engaging frankness.
All were instantly on their guard.
“Oh, they’re ours all right,” said the
lance-Jack promptly. “They came up on
that mixed truck two days ago.”
A tense pause.
“Well, I was only wondering,” I con-
tinued casually, “because I know we had
something on ' that truck—and to-day I
received direct advice /rom the ‘shop’ that
they’d been sent up to me. Our people want
them badly just now.” (This was all quite
true —except the alleged direct advice from
the “shop.”)
The sergeant drew a cigarette from behind
lu’s ear and tapped it reflectively on the back
of his hand ; the lance-Jack produced a damp,
dog-eared notebook from inside his tunic
and commenced to look through it just as
though he expected to find something. Then,
with a preliminary caustic comment on the
weather (spoken in the vernacular), I took
advantage of the delay to get to real busi-
ness.
“By-the-way, I’ve got some lengths of
trench-pump hose that' I might be able to
let you have.”
The sergeant looked up keenly.
“We could do with ’em, sarge,” he said.
“You see all our pumps just outside there—
without a yard of hose amongst the lot of
’em!” Then lie silently lit his cigarette.
“Well,” he began, in a quick, business-like
way, “how much hose can you spare?”
“Hummm!” I reflected impressively, “let
me see. Well, we finished issuing pumps a
fortnight ago, and there’s fully fifteen lengths
more than our share been wrongfully con-
signed to us since. If they’ll be of use to
you you’d better have ’em.”
The Infantry accepted the offer promptly.
“Righto, sarge; I’ll send a party over with
the bursters, an’ the men can bring the hose
back when they come—that right?”
It was; and I turned and departed in a
chorus of genial farewells.
A minute later I met a Tommy member
of my mixed party (Heavy Artillery in this
part is Aus.-cam-Imperial) hurrying towards
me from a stack of our goods. In the
distance an Australian was - ploughing off
through the mud with a nice, burnable piece
of timber over his shoulder. I greeted my
Tommy rather angrily.
“Good God! Didn’t I just post you on
guard over that stuff?” I began.
“Oi did, Sawgint, but”
“Then why the didn’t you stop that
chap from pinching our timber?”
_,“Oi —Oi did, sawgint!” replied Gunner
Bloggins almost tearfully. “Oi did, but ’e
towld Oi to be [bad word]., Sawgint.”
The Australian members of my composite
party broke into broad grins. So did an
A.M.C. Major who had become interested in
the dialogue. I was tickled myself, but
silently and for the second time that day
cursed Sergeant Fisher. I also vowed to
speak to him seriously on the predatory
habits of his energetic men.
But Sergeant Fisher is a popular acting-
quartermaster, and great is the motive power
of a liberal rum-issue to men living under
such conditions as ours. This I found out
for. myself that night as I sat bursting with
sociability in the warmth of my rival’s dug-
out. sipping at the fragrant steaming potion
he handed me. while the rain tsipp-tsipped
outside, and the shells from some absurdly
energetic battery wailed protestingly over-
head.
TED COLEES.


fi
1 '*;* .tJJi
m-
■Wm
~; V ■
fP' ‘ m*» *•
gj* i |
■ . . irtiM
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE
BRAKE CO. OF
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wei.ington,
Victorian Offioe— 99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WlkiHJjM »MVi ¥l m v IW
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves 5 per cent, on
Automobile
Fire Insurance .
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14".
wormalETbros. ltd.
16 Spring street SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
*i4«£S*£s«*T9
mj
fIL
i
lO
O
LU
OUTBOARD MOTOR
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationai’y without stopping engine.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4-CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
Sole Australasian Agents:
sdfsd
51-53 Oruitt Street, SYDNEY ; 60
rothers Limited,
Street,
mi
fsd
When they are hard to clean
Metal-polishes will dissolve the
tarnish, but they also eat the
nietal. Bon Ami does the work
better and does not scratch or
eat the metal.
Boni Ami is cleaner and nicer to
use than a metal-polish. It is not
oilyor bad smelling. Itis perfectly
safe to use in cooking-utensils
for it contains no acids.
Bon Ami contains a soft,
spongy mineral which
rubs off the tarnish and
the dirt by a physical
process instead of a
chemical process.
§ 1 all the
Finer Kinds of
Cleaning
At TO nr Grocer’*.
n
'/a
m
m
m
N LaugFjing Eyes /
are tfje gall marß of gealtg.
take
BeecimmS Pius
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
f
PATRIOTISM
.Yodb
Aim? e
Then have a JHOT
Pfe at smoking
Referee
9
1
1
The Bulletin
If any illustration appearing in
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to
Manager, who will quote you price for
£3
ODGI
We Specialise in Sundries
for the Explosive Engine.
If you possess a Motor-car, Motor-boat, Motor-
cycle, Portable or Stationary Engine, or Aeroplane,
whether propelled by Petrol, Oil or Gas,
we can supply you with all the necessary fitments to
make it go better for less expense.
Sparking Plugs! Sparking Plugs!!
ft
LODGE SPARKING PLUGS, in Metric, }£in. taper.|in. x 18in. 5/- each.
Weatherproof, in Metric only, 0/- each. Special Racing, 7/6 each.
sdf
CHAMPION SPARKING PLUGS, the equipment of
80 per cent, of the cars made in America. A plug for
every make of car. In Metric, 34 in., fin. x 18in.
Ford “X” 2/9, Regular 3/-, Overland 3/3, Hy.
Duty 5/-, Reliance (Sparks in water) 5/6 each.
REFLEX SPARKING PLUGS. A splendidly made
plug. Will not foul with oil, soot or carbon. Once tried
always used. Ford Special 2/9, Torpedo 3/-, Giant
Reflex, 4/- each.
Illustrated List describing all these plugs in detail free.
Send-for other Lists.
Country Garages write to us. We will put you on the
right track.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. (t
O :


ingrqviteT
LEATHER
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGKOVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all otlier so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application. i
sdfsd
Engineers!
You know bow a coating, no matter how slight, spoil*
the cutting efficiency of your grinding-wheel. This
catting surface can be quite easily renewed in a few
minutes if you are equipped with one of our
Huntington Grinding Wheel Dressers
Means faster work—and practically the disappearance
of all your wheel troubles.
Complete with spare cutter, S/6. Write for one to-day.
Agents:—
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Engineers 8 Machinery Merchants jf> 60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MAKES ANY BUILDING
FIREPROOF
and reduces insurance cost to the lowest
basis. For interior and exterior walls,
ceilings, partitions, etc.
Hardie’s (British-made)
Fibro-Cement
is being largely used all over the country.
Actually improves with age, does not crack or
chip, costs less to keep in repair.
WRITE FOR CATALOG “D”
Also enquire about “Fibro-C’ Cold-water
Paint and Hardie’s Oak Cover Battens for use
with the above.
JAMES HARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
[2
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS “REGRINDING VALVE,”
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
PERMASITE
ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
EPSOM SALTS.
sd
Manufactured tinder Special License
from Commonwealth Govt.
mm
MANUFACTURING CO.
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
?
•A
O
TUA®* «**|
V
Q
O
*
Broken Castings
any size, can tea reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib.. 50/-; Jib.. 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
Cast-iron Brazing Co. (Reg.)
A's Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Vi eft >ria.
MARSHALL’S
Steam
Engines and Bailers
(“England's Best”).
“BIG CHIEF
H
Oil Engines
(“America’s Best”).
Obtain full particulars of either of these and you will be convinced
we are offering
THE WORLD’S BEST VALUE,
CASH OR EASY IERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON h CO. Ltd.,
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Motorists, Garages 8 Others
When Requiring Gear Wheels, Machined Parts,
Milling or Grinding Work or Repairs,
Send to our Modern Workshops for
Quick Despatch and Moderate Charges.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.
307-309 Kent Street, Sydney.
.
IUJUIO snavj-HQj
BRITISH SUPREMACY
in Workmanship is expressed in
jsfezi
2-Stand
Shearing Q a i
Crutching
20 Years of AUSTRALIAN Sheep-Shearing Experience is Sponsor for this Outfit.
Engine, Shears, Ring-oiled Brackets, Angle Steel Frame 8 Grinder are all Listers,
DANGAR, GEDYE 8 CO. LTD
) 9-13 Young St.. Sydney
*• The Pioneers of
Bheep>Shearing Machines
STATIONARY OUTFIT
FOR AIR COMPRESSORS,
ROCK DRILLS,
and all Mining and Concentrating Machinery
Apply to N. CUTIiPkIBCE LTD., who have been in the business for 30 years.
* Enquiries answered promptly.
fsd
fsd
Equitable Building,
350 Geoi/e Street, Sydney
f
dsf
sd
fsd
