

DBWAK 3 S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
i
Brave Australian
The traditions of your race demand a willing and noble response.
.
Will you fail them in this hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF YOUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written.
ENLIST!
G. WATKINS (Sb CD., Iron and Machinery Merchants, 107 Kant Street, Sydney.
dfdgsfg
Hr
T£ -f. 4
u
t
—
■
5,1.
advance
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
BILLS DISCOUNTED
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&1.C9
HEAD OEEICE: 74 CASTLEREAGM ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. >
Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215*217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel
WRITE TO-DAY FOR 50-PAGE BOOK.
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEYJ
WALL
GOLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
For In- and Out-door Sleeping.
American Wall Bed 'Co.,
38£>Georgre Street, near 3.? o. Sydney
I vMmSm
HAMS
BACON
dc
CHUBB'S
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as taong
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
J
HA N SE NS
unket
mb waW -»W|i|r^sig
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals. ■. . . t
Awarded J3O First-Class f’l'i/.e Medals.
i
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
1
sdgf
ds
gsd
fg
Royal
Dutch
JA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
,v. W V-
m
“SCRUTTON’S” for OIL ENGINES.
Positively THE “Right Firm” to supply you with the WORLD’S BEST (English or American).
Only a few left. Order Early to avoid disappointment. ■-
CASH or EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & GO. LTD.
■
181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Where the Best Engines are Sold. ”
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
»
0
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
dfg
CILBERT LODGE 8 CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney. 115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG WHII WORTH «& CO. LTD.
NORTH BRITISH LOCOriOTIVE CO. LTD.
WM. COOKE & CO. LTD.
BROWN BAY LEY’S STEEL WORKS LTD.
CHANCE BROS. LTD.
WEBSTER & BENNETT
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Moutn.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.38.—N0. 1949. J
[Thursday, June 21, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post a Newspaper,


sd
Carry an Onoto with you!
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills
itself in a flash, cleans itself in the act of filling,
and contains sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
Never leaks-always writes smoothly—and is always ready
for writing. Can be filled from any ink supply without
a filler, without mess or trouble, in five seconds.
Onoto
Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
British made by British labour.
Price, 14,6 and" upwards. At all
Stationers, Jewellers, Stores, etc.
Tanufacturers— Thomas de i.a Rue
: Co. LTD.,Bunhill Row. London, E.C.
' anaging Agents—Norman Baker &
Longhurst. York Street, Sydney.
The Mouth, a Gateway for Disease.
have proved conclusively that no fewer thau 38 different infections may be traced to
the human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus being a gateway for the entrance of Disease,
it is here that precautions are most necessary.
C
m
«ss?
/
A. The Larynx, or
Organ of the voice.
B. The Trachea,
or Windoipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a
seeted Lung.
Dis-
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
UDSON’S
g
Are the most powerful, safe, and pleasant
Germicide and Antiseptic known. Being destruc-
tive to all organisms which give rise to infec-
tious diseases, they keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Pre-
vention of Consumption,
SOLD EVERYWHERE. TINS, t/6. [4
The Red Page
The War
Once again Boyd Cable has written the
real thing. G 'rapes of Wrath (Smith, Elder,
ss. in England) is just the sort of thing that
readers, tired of histories or novels of the
war, are waiting for; and it is done in a
way that confirms the high reputation made
by this author in the war. “My ambition,”
he explains, “was of describing what a Big
Push is like from the point of view of an
ordinary average infantry private....!
have tried to put into words merely the sort
of story that might and could be told by
thousands of our men to-day. I hope, in
fact, I have so ‘told the tale’ that such
men as I have written of may be able to put
this book in your hands and say ‘This chap-
ter just describes our crossing the open,’ or
‘That is how we were shelled,’ or ‘I felt the
same about my Blighty one.’ ” And that is
exactly what Boyd Cable, with a brilliant
realism and a convincing touch, has sincerely
done.
He. takes four men, four ordinary privates,
and tells us what they feel and know while
taking part in a Big Push. To us on-lookers,
fed up with full descriptions of the various
operations, it is amazing how little the actors
actually know of the real drama or their part
in it. “Bloomin’ Blind Man’s Buff, I calls
it. Gropin’ round after ’Uns you can’t see,
an’ gettin’ poked in the ribs without seem’
one—like Billy was,” is how one of the men
describes it. And in a casualty station: "It
was extraordinary how little they each ap-
peared to know of the fight they had taken
such an active part in, how ignorant they
were of how well or ill the action had gone
as a whole. Some talked very positively, but
were promptly questioned or contradicted by
others* just as positive; others confessed
blank ignorance of everything except that
they themselves had stayed in some ditch for
a certain number of hours, or that the bat-
talion had been held up by machine-gun fire;
or that the shelling had been ‘hell.’ ” Even
when the tired and dispirited men in the
trench had the chance of seeing an aeroplane
duel just overhead, they were not allowed to
watch it. A sharp order was passed along
the trench for every man to keep his face
down. “A trench full of white faces lookin’
up at a ’plane,” the sergeant explains, “is
as good as sending a postcard to their spotter
upstairs sayin’ the trench is occupied in
force; and 1 I don’t suppose you’re any more
anxious than I am for that ’Un to be send-
ing a wireless to his guns, and ’avin’ this
trench strafed like the last one was.” The
disgusted men never even knew who won that
fight.
*
Boyd Cable affords us more vivid pictures
of the little things that count. Here is how
a German counter-attack was met. “The
German counter-attack boiled down into a
mere matter of the rapid firing of a very hot
rifle into a dense bank of smoke and a dimly-
seen mass of men. Each man shot straight
to his front.... So each simply shot and shot
and went on shooting at full speed, glancing
over the sights and squeezing the trigger,
jerking the bolt back and up, and pulling
trigger again till the magazine was empty;
then, throwing the butt down to cram a fresh
clip of cartridges into the breech.... Each
man was an automatic machine, pumping out
so many bullets in so many seconds Ken-
tucky began to fear that his stock of cart-
ridges would not last out, began vaguely to
worry over the possibility of having to
shooting even for a minute until bp could
obtain a fresh supply. Pug was filled with
an intense irritation over the behavior of his
rifle, which dn some mysterious fashion de-
veloped a defect in the loading of the last
cartridge from each clip.... He cursed his
rifle and its parts, breech, holt and magazine
severally and distinctly, the cartridges and
the clips, the men and the machinery who had
made each, but at no time did he check the
speed of his shooting to curse.”
And here is exactly how a man dons his
gas helmet: “Through the acrid odors of the
explosives’ fumes Kentucky caught a faint
whiff of a heavy, sickly, sweet scent. In-
stantly he stopped breathing, and hastily
wrenched out the flannel helmet slung in its
special hag by his side, pulled it over his
head, and, clutching its folds tightly round
his throat with one hand, tore open his
jacket collar, stuffed the lower edge of the
flannel inside his jacket and buttoned it up
again. He lay- perfectly quiet, inhaling the
pungent odor of the impregnated flannel, and
peering upward through the eye-pieces for
any visible sign of the gas.” And all through
the homeric adventures of the next half hour
in which Kentucky did enough to win seven
VC.’s he was intensely worried because he
could not identify the peculiar scent of that
gas!
For all along that confused line deeds
were being casually done that no melo-
dramatic playwright would dare to use.
“Among the stock situations of the melo-
drama one of the most worked-to-death is
that of the beleaguered garrison at the last
gasp, and the thrilling arrival of the rescu-
ing force at the critical moment. It is so old
and threadbare now that probably no theatre
would dare stage it; but in the war the same
situation has been played again and again in
the swaying and straining lines of battle in
every variety of large and small scale. W hat
the theatre has rejected as too theatrical,
the artificial as too artificial, the real has
accepted as so much commonplace that it is
hardly remarked. Actually the battle-line is
one long series of critical situations on one
side or the other, the timely arrival, or
failure to arrive, of assistance at the critical
moment. The great difference is that in the
theatre the rescue never fails to arrive, in
war it often does.”
What makes this yarn more thrilling for
us is that the rescuers were Anzacs. And
one hopes that the incident that follows is as
true as it is characteristic. For the Anzacs,
ordered like the English to retire, happening
to see a khaki figure, followed by an officer,
actually advancing, saw nothing but the
necessity for Australia to be there, and un-
officially started an advance that resulted in
the capture of the village. The cause of
this victory was one English soldier who had
potted a German officer wearing a helmet
and wasn’t going back without retrieving
that helmet! His officer followed him, yell-
ing for him to come back. What else could
the Anzacs do, but follow?
Another vivid picture—of a casualty
station. “The work went on at top speed, as
smooth as sweet-running machinery, as fast
and efficiently as the sorting and packing of
goods in a warehouse by a well-drilled and
expert staff. It was curiously like the
handling of merchandise, if you gave your
attention to the figures (of the wounded)
passing down the stairs, moving into line up
to the tables, halting there a few minutes,
moving on again and away. The men might
have been parcels shifting one by one up to
the packers’ tables and away from them. . . .
It was quite different if attention were con-
centrated on the doctor alone and the case
he handled. That brought instant realisa-
tion of the human side, the high skill of the
swiftly-moving fingers, the perfection of
knowledge that directed them, the haste with
which a bandage was stripped off, the ten-
derness that over-rode the haste as the raw
wound was bared, the sure, unhesitating
touch that handled the wound with a maxi-
mum of speed finely adjusted ter a minimum
of hurt....”
The whole grim reality of modern warfare
is here, lit, as is inevitable, by sharp flashes
of humor, rough and simple, but intensely
moving against that hideous background.
One chapter dealing with the tanks is as
humorous as its ludicrous subject. And
there is the same simple masculine pathos
in the concluding chapters. For Boyd Cable
is too sincere a writer to conform to the
formula that always brings a hero out of the
battle unscathed, or at least with one
definite and picturesque wound. Of his
four heroes, two are killed, and the other
two, receiving Blighty wounds, are mangled
for life. And none receives a V.C.
Two Australian Novels
Let us keep our standards clear: these
two novels, it must be admitted, would
hardly merit mention in this page if they
had not been written by Australians. The
policy of this page is to note only those
oversea novels that either represent some
interesting tendency in modern fiction or
that possess outstanding qualities of style
or theme. Such novels as these two would
perforce escape notice among the many ex-
cellent novels produced every year in Eng-
land and the U.S.A. Painted Clay, by Capel
Boake, a niece of Barcroft Boake ('Aus-
tralasian Authors’ Agency, Melb.; 4s.), and
Paul Strange, by Louise Brown, an Adel-
aide woman (Hodder and Stoughton), are
admirable examples of novels of the f.a.q.
standard —that is all. But they rank fairly
high among the novels already produced by
Australians,
Painted Clay is the realistic story of a
Melbourne girl who inherits from her mother
a tendency to love passionately and too well.
But the author needlessly stresses this in-
heritance, since Helen’s one “lapse” might
have occurred to any girl, no matter how
brought up, who found herself by an acci-
dent alone for the night with the unscru-
pulous man she loved. The value of this
novel, however, does not depend on the plot.
Capel Boake paints with vivid touches the
beauty of Melbourne, and, evidently from a
first-hand knowledge, depicts the struggles
of her heroine to make a living, first in a
shop and then in an office, with interesting
and authentic glimpses of studio life. There
is one picture of a typical Australian subur-
ban home that is delightfully and convinc-
ingly done. And in her analysis of the
heroine Capel Boake does not shrink from
hurting the susceptibilities of her readers.
After her “fall” Helen thus searches her
heart.
“Did she regret it? Traditions of her
grandmothers that still lived in her, the
atmosphere of the world she lived in, told
her that she should regret. She knew, accord-
ing to their standards, she had suffered an
irreparable harm. Yet she could not feel the
sense of harm and loss that she should have
felt. If she herself could not feel that she
had been wronged, then was she? That was
the question. If she were only harmed in
the minds of other people, then how could
that affect her? It was only the knowledge
of her transgression, not the actual fact of
it, that would damn her. As it was, people
liked her and sought her society. If it were
known it would not be the fact of the sin,
but the knowledge of it, that would affect
their attitude to her.”
The characters are sufficiently well-drawn ;
though the final reconciliation between the
girl and her notorious mother rather strains
the reader’s credulity. A readable, realistic
story on a conventional model, done with an
artistic sincerity, but without much depth
of insight.
Paul Strange is still more conventional
in arrangement, its theme being the, rise of
a poor Australian country boy to high politi-
cal honors. The opening scenes on a cocky’s
selection are an attractive realistic intro-
duction to a story that too soon becomes a
mere society-political-conversational novel.
There is originality in the conception of the
boy’ parents, a waster of a father who, how-
ever, insists on himself educating his boy,
and a self-sacrificing, common, hard-work-
ing drab of a mother, whose hardly-saved
money gives her son his chance in the world.
The mother is a finely-drawn and charac-
teristic Australian type. There are, too, a
genial professor who could only have been
drawn from life, and his equally delightful
wife. There is, however, a feminine fuzzi-
ness about the other male characters, and
though Barbara is in an unobtrusive way
real, “the other woman,” upon whom the
author has spent much pains, remains
theatrical, a concocted formula common to
society novels.
The he ' becomes a leading lawyer in Mel-
bourne, and shocks his society friends by
joining the Labor party. There are some
portraits of the leaders of that party that
seem to have been based upon Tammany and
not Australian models. Yet Louise Brown
evidences a sufficient knowledge of local poli-
tics to make the strike in Melbourne real.
Melbourne “society” life is treated with a
light touch, but at too great a length for its
contribution to her 'hero’s development: too
many pages are devoted to “smart” conver-
sation. The author depends for the compli-
cations in her hero’s love affairs upon the
hackneyed device of the letter of confession
that was mislaid, and so only received on
the wedding-day. In real life the man would
have not been content to take the woman’s
silence for forgiveness. Though he had cer-
tainly taken the wise precaution not to trust
to the Melbourne post office to deliver his
letter, he could not have avoided in his sub-
sequent meetings with the girl some reference
to such a momentous communication. But
he not only makes this mistake with one
woman, but similarly misinterprets the
silence of the other. These mechanical mis-
understandings do not occur in real life.
And the theatrical climax is unworthy of
the excellent but unpretentious work in the
earlier portions of the novel.
Louise Brown does good service in
attempting to elucidate the Australian soul.
She allows her characters to discuss Aus-
tralian in an interesting but obvious fashion.
Thus one visitor does not notice very appar-
ent differences between the English and the
Australians. “The crowd in the street is
just like an English one. You Australians
are darker-skinned, of course, and you have
less color than we have. Then, though you
are not nearly so stolid, you are more
triste. I feel so much that undercurrent of
sadness here. It haunts the place; it is
everywhere—in the landscape, the people,
the Very air. * I have never seen it in a
whole nation and country before. It is
rather fascinating On the whole, I admire
your women, to look at. They are extremely
well-turned-out. and resemble French women
more than English.”
A correspondent criticises the phrase in
Jean Curlewis’s free verse, “If he was
killed.” She says it ought to be: “If he
were killed.” She also wants to know why
“this verv obvious error” is made so often
and so often allowed to pass? The answer is
that the use of the indicative instead of the
subjunctive after “if” is not an error. To
the fastidious ear the subjunctive is better;
but the growing disuse of archaic forms due
to the modern urge towards the simplification
of the language has established the indica-
tive mood after “if’ in general usage. In a
war-stricken world there is not much use
worrying about an inessential matter like
this. We say “if he was killed”; why not
write it? Especially as this simplification
breaks no immutable grammatical rule.
A reference in this page to “a littie society
of writers in Melbourne” has brought to light
the existence of The Australian Literature
Society, Royal Arcade, Melb. The reference,
however, was to The Australian Writers and
Artists’ Guild. The objects of this modest
little society are the study of Australian
literature and the encouragement of authors
in Australia; but the hon. secretary, P. C. E.
Widdop, does not mention how much it has
encouraged Australian authors. However,
we are pleased to learn that the society is
“still going strong.” He suggests that the
franchise of voters for the R.A.A. is too
narrow, since other journals “less literary”
and their contributors “less brilliant,” as he
courteously remarks, might feel aggrieved
and ignore a purely Bulletin R.A.A. But
there is no restriction upon the names of
the members proposed for Australasian
academicians, lie makes the suggestion that
the names selected by our voters may help
to focus opinion upon a possible group of
excellent literary critics, and that in the
final selection Australian literary societies
and Australian authors should have a say.
The method suggested by this page is, how-
ever, the only .practical one; and the fran-
chise, provided a sufficient number of voters
take the trouble to poll, is sufficiently wide
and sufficiently qualified to make the selected
candidates properly representative.
The “Brisbane,” R.A.N., is the first vol-
ume of a publication issued by the ship’s
company of the first cruiser built in Aus-
tralia. This number is printed in Malta,
3917. The issue celebrates “the end of a
13,000-mile journey in a brand new ship
snatched from the clutching fingers of a
thousand or so dilettante dockyardmen”!
During that voyage, we learn, the ship
“found” herself. One “spasm” begins
blithely but jumpily thus: —
Where are we going—don’t know.
When do we get.there—don’t know.
Shall we for days at a stretch in port stop,
Go to the bottom or stay on the top,
Eventually reach Plymouth or Pompey or not?
Don’t know.
Of Malta we learn that the present in-
habitants are mainly V.A.D.’s and goats,
and that the chief occupation of the Staff
Officers is to stand on the steps of the Club
and thrash their boots with a peculiar form
of cane. There are the usual naval jokes
and allusions that are -doubtless very ludi-
crous to those who understand them. The
best thing for readers of this page has been
borrowed by the wise editors, a poem en-
titled, “The Hospital Ship.” It was worth
stealing:—•
Like a feather, like foam, like a ray of the moon,
Like a lily afloat on a shining lagoon,
Like a cloud in fair weather, like mist far away
Is the white ship of Healing... .come in with the
day!
What freight does she carry? Those hosts of brave
men .
Who in forest and city, by mountain and fen
Were not deaf to the call, dared the pestilent breath,
And passed nnd mayed by the gateways of death!
Does she come from the near? Does she come from
the far? 1 ■
She comes from a land where all great hazards are!
Will she tarry awhile? Is she eager to roam?
Like a bird in the twilight she wings her way home.
Like a sweet passing face in the dusk of a dream,
Like a flake of fresh snow on the edge of a stream,
Like a shimmering star on the breast of the rrght
Is the white ship of Healing.... gone out with the
light! -
—Lorna de Lucchi. 1
Paul Jean Cels, Belgian art-connoisseur,
pertinently asks in Sydney Hekald why the.
names of Rubens, Michael Angelo and other
ancient masters are emblazoned on the out-
side of Sydney National Gallery while in-
side they are unrepresented? “What a
mockery!” he exclaims. It is a mockery
that on an Australian picture gallery no in-
dication is given on the outside of the build-
ing of the treasures it holds. Inside that
gallery are represented some of the finest
examples of Ililder, Norman Lindsay,
Streeton, Lambert and other Australian
artists who stand pre-eminent in their art
in Australia, and who can court comparison
with the best modern masters in their special
metiers. Those ancient foreign names should
be erased, since for the Gallery they are only
names, and in their stead we should see, and
some day shall see, there “emblazoned” the
Australian masters of the Australian contri-
bution to the world of art.
The last day on which entries for the
guinea prize for the list of six names, in
order, to form the foundation members of
the Republican Acadeipy of Australasian
Art, is next Saturday. The qualification for
the voter is the publication of story or verse
in The Bulletin. So far, the response has
been poor; and, in order to make the selec-
tion representative, every qualified contri-
butor is urged to vote.
What Billzac Reads.
James R. Durkin, abroad: There are a mighty lot
of men in this army who want more substantial
mental pabulum than' the English halfpenny dailies,
which in the main are simply snobbish sheets devoted
to the doings of an effete aristocracy. As for my-
self, I will undertake to read all the Triabs and
Stead Reviews anyone likes to send along; also
Contemporary or Fortnightly Reviews and others
of that stamp. I made arrangements in Australia for
a regular Bulletin, but it doesn’t often get as far
as me.


'U£?e
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for MEN’S REQUISITES
fds
The departments at the New Palace'Emporium devoted to men’s needs are
popular with those who expect the best value for their money. The wearing
apparel enumerated below embraces all the good points which a discriminating-
shopper desires. Besides being MADE of GOOD-WEARING MATERIALS,
they are FINISHED in the HIGH-CLASS manner CHARACIERISIIC of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ ready-made requirements, and in common with
everything sold at the New Palace Emporium they come under the money-
saving influence of Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
MEN’S FASHION SHIRTS.
Men’s Colored Fashion Shirts, soft fronts,
dressed cuffs and neckbands. Sizes, 14- to 19-inch
neck. In Vertical Stripe effect and Hairlines in
Blue and White, Black and White, .and choice
colorings.
Cambric . . 3/9, 8/11, 4/9, 6/3
Zephyr 4/6, 5/-, 5/6, 6/9
Jap Crepe • 5/3
Oxford 4/11, 5/9
Repp 3/9, 4/3, 4/11
Sizes: 17- to 19-inch neck, 3d. each extra.
Men’s All-White Fashion Shirts, soft fronts,
dressed cuffs and neckbands. Sizes, 14- to 164-inch
neck.
In Mercerised Twill ... 4/3 and 5/9 each
In Mercerised Oxford 4/9 each
In Jap Crepe 5/6 each
In Plain Longcloth 5/6 each
In Self-stripe Cambric 5/9 each
In Cellular (Aertex) 6/3 each*
MEN S COSY PYJAMAS.
Our Men’s Pyjama Suits are made of Reliable
Wearing Fabrics, and are Satisfaction Givers.
Fulness of Cut, which Ensures Ease and Com-
fort, is one of their Commendable Character-
istics.
Men’s Flannelette Pyjamas, strong, warm and
durable.
Medium weight .... 5/9, 6/6, 7/-, 7/ 6 each
Heavy weight 6/9, 7/0, 9/- each
Men’s Oxford Pyjamas, all cotton and all reli-
able 7/- and S/ 6 each
Men’s Ceylon Pyjamas, soft and seasonable.
9/-, 11/-, 12/6 and 15/-
Superior . . . . 21/6
Men's Crimean Pyjamas, warm winter weight.
12/6 and 15/6
POSTAGE MUST BE ADDED TO PRICES QUOTED.
a'
rag
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for the TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIARS.
The TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR is guaranteed to be made of the finest selected materials. It is London-made, with
hand-cut Vulcanite mouthpiece, and mounted with heavy silver band. The Triumph Extra Briar is a cool, sweet-
smoking Pipe, will not crack or burn, and offers absolutely the best pipe value in the land.
Hand-cut
Vulcanite Stems,
5/6
By post,
5/8
055.
m
m
S L
66
64
65
63
62
67
68
«9<
Shapes Nos. 63 and 65 have Silver Push Stems.
Finest Briars,
London Made,
5/6
By post,
3/
Silver-mounted,
4/-
By Post,
4/2
Wings
43
44
42
46
40
47
London Made,
4/-
By post,
4/2
VALUE in the NEW COIVI FORTABLE COAT SWEATERS.
COAT SWEATER, WITH POLO COLLAR,
ALL-WOOL COAT SWEATERS.
Men’s Knitted All-Wool Coat Sweaters, medium
weights, in Plain Grey, Brown, and Navy.
Chest 34in. 36in. 40in. 42in.
V Front .. . 13/6 14/- 15/- 16/-
Polo Collar 14/- 14/9 15/6 16/9
Men’s Knitted All-Wool Coat Sweaters, warm
weight,, in Grey with Green Edging, and Brown with
Tabac Edging.
Chest 34in. 36in. 40in. 42in.
V' Front ... 14/- 14/6 15/- 16/-
Men’s Knitted All-Wool Coat Sweaters, heavy
ribbed make, in. Plain Navy Blue.
Chest 34in. 36in. 40in.
V Front 21/- 21/- 26/-
Men’s Scotch Make All-Wool Coat Sweaters,
Soft finish, in Plain Brown and Navy Blue.
Chest 34in. 36in. 40in.
V Front 24/- 25/- 26/- .
Men’s Knitted All-Wool Coat Sweaters, heavy-
ribbed knit, in Cream.
Chest 36in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
V Front ... 24/- 25/- ' 26/- 27/-
V Front 35/- 36/- 37/6 38/6
CAME LINE COAT SWEATERS.
Men’s Cameline Coat Sweaters, something soft and
superior. SCOTCH make, ALL-WOOL, Fleecy Finish.
In choice shades of Heather, Fawn, Brown, Grey, and
Reseda.
Chest 34in. 36in. 40in. 42in.
V Front 30/- 30/- 30/- 32/6
Men’s Cameline Coat Sweaters, in smart, up-to-
date colorings, or Two-Tone Effects; in Brown, Fawn
and Grey.
Chest 3 4 in. 36in. 40in. 42in.
V Front 37/- 37/- 37/- 39/-
POSTAGE MUST BE ADDED TO PRICES QUOTED.
V-FRONTED COAT SWEATER.
ANTHONY HORDERN &, SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W
.


• ■
•W- iff .
V '•
BRAND
Cartridges
Shoot Straight
and Hit Hard
These two cardinal points
of a good cartridge, and
also that of reliability, are
always found in Win-
chester ammunition. No
matter what caliber cart-
ridges you want or whether
they are for use in a rifle,
revolver or pistol you will
get the best results by using
Winchester make. They
are sold everywhere.
Accept no substitute,
insist upon having
The March of Progress.
Waterman’s Ideal has always been the recognised leader in pendom.
The most costly of ingenious appliances in manufacture have
been utilised to make it supreme and keep it so. To-day there
are millions of Waterman’s Ideals in use and millions of satis-
fied users. There is absolutely no other pen to equal it.
For those who travel or lead an outdoor life, the “ Safety ” type
is recommended. It can be carried upside down or in any position.
Three types Regular,
Safety, and Lever Pocket
Self-Filling.
0/Stationers Ss Jewellers
everywhere.
L. G. Sloan,
Corner
London, England.
Australia:
Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
/ \\kn
Av. />
\lv
SOT
i
UtuiJk
I
Wrt.
Ni
t<>f.
?.
tor
~^C7
m
w
\?\
ssss
\\\\\
'LAUNCHING THE H.M A S BRISBANE AT SYDNEY
SEPT 30™ 1915 - SISTER SHIP TO H.M.A.S. SYDNEY
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
©1
0
»(
So nice to use
'divert?
fawder
And it enables you to
give the teeth every day
that thorough antiseptic
cleansing so necessary
to keep them in the best
possible condition.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert by Co., Manchester, Eng.
FEDERAL. LORRIES
Acknowledged Superior
Such firms as the American Express Co.—Standard Oil Co.—Parke,
Davis & Co. —all own FEDERALS.
FEDERALS have earned a world-wide reputation, and to-day they
are operating in many lands, everywhere giving satisfaction to" their
owners. !
These firms are known internationally—and when they selected
motor-lorries they purchased FEDERALS because they are recognised
leaders the world over.
Five capacities—l ton, 1£ ton, 2 ton, 3| ton, and 5 ton. Worm
Drive exclusively.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635 Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[3
gdf
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Al'rny and Navy men.
m
■■iiitmcn
Used since 159fi. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
S, GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton's ’’—refuse all substitutes.
are: you n
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
f
Ami
For doors
and knobs
Bon Ami will
clean the finger-
marks from the
paint and will
polish the door-
knob too.
You must not use an ordinary scouring-soap
on paint for it will scour and wear away the
paint, but Bon Ami is made of softer, finer
minerals and will not hurt the paint.
On metal Bon
Ami rubs
away the tar-
nish and gives
an exquisite
polish. No
acids.
,v<w
For all the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing& Cleaning
At your Grocer’s.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
bo taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them—and you will, within a very
C*
N.'-
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Blood—like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is. most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, goi*t, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble, you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the following state-
ment : Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth and
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
water add loz. of bay rum and a small box-
of Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of the hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff.— Advt. [2
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Deal 1 - f
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
tile Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp, and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together with
.our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says : “I was a hard smoker for thirty
years, hut since taking your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney, i.?.
BELLEVUE
HOTEL,
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publiclv acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNIOAN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
'lhave sold it for oversoyearn
BOnninotonJs I
IPISH MOSS I
Sold Here I
1860
BONftINGT
IRISH MO
Here
Sold
1917
says the retailer ” and there is
nothing in my stock that I can
more conscientiously recommend
for coughs and colds than Bonning-
ton’s Irish Moss. For. over half a
century it has been the standard,
never-failing remedy, and the public
have, set their seal of approval upon
BOflfllflGTO/ti
IRISH♦MOSS
It acts like a charm in cases of Whooping Cough, Croup, Coughs and Colds which
are the children s worst enemies. Always keep it handy Summer and Winter, but
be sure it’s Bonnington's. Large and Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
CELEBRATED
S 3
Va
A
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
lias become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don't feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Cd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
BE GOOD '
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
%
Extra Strong for
the Extra Strain
More rubber than in any other motor cycle tyre.
Same quality of materials as in Firestone Automo-
bile Tyres. You will know them by the red side
wall, black tread —a stunning combination.
Motor Cycle Tyres
possess great endurance because of the “extras”
which Firestone specialists “build in” to them. The
favorite tyre with the riders of the world because of
their great wear resisting qualities, built-in extras and hand-
some appearance. They represent the topmpst value in tyres,
and meet the most exacting demands of the riders of the world.
Grimley, Ltd.,
Sydney, New South Wales
F. A. McCarty & Co., Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Victoria
and Tasmania
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Australia
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.,
Perth, Western Australia
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
Wanganui and Wellington,
New Zealand
Obtainable at all Garages
Write for Illustrated Literature
VARIOUS VERSE
The Shrine.
In my heart there is a shrine
Guarded with a jealous care,
Where my spirit takes the wine
Of a sacrament I share
With my inner thoughts alone —
Memories that have not flown.
There the best I know is kept
Sacred, safe, inviolate ;
Scent from flowers that life has swept
From my life. In holy state
There, pure, tender, fair and good,
Lives my dream of womanhood !
Envy in your heart might rise
Knew you what that vision seems;
For her eyes are not your eyes,
Tender passion in them gleams.
To my conscience I might say
That my dream resembles May.
As, without a temple grey,
1-lighway-dust mars image fair,
Dust of wedded day-by-day
Hides the soul I thought you were —
May, from whom I had to part,
Holds the shrine within my heart.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Nocturne.
Across the desert of the sky
Passes the sun’s slow caravan,
And Night, a jaded courtesan,
With stealthy feet comes drifting by.
Above the pool of Dusk she stoops
And pauses, and with patient care
She lifts the darkness of her hair,
Gem-decked in green and yellow loops.
And while she smears her breasts and hands
With fragrant ambergris and nard,
Beneath her sandalled feet the shard
Of Day is trampled in the sands.
She steals in through the city gates;
And ’neath the shadowy minarets
Glimmer her silvern amulets
As furtive-eyed she peers and waits.
Anon the purple heights afar
Grow pale, and from the East comes
soon,
With laggard steps, a drunken Moon,
Thrust out from some sin-steeped bazaar.
She plucks his sleeve, and, passion-fanned,
Flame of desire lights up her eyes;
And reeling home across the skies
They go, hot hand enclasped in hand.
Each shadow, like a startled fawn,
For sanctuary turns to flee
As at the desert’s rim they see
The slinking jackals of the dawn.
SINAI.
G. F. E.
A Love-Lilt.
Love is a thing that will conquer still though
the sun in its course should stay. . . .
A street organ plays underneath my sill
“Oh ! where is my love to-day?”
I curse it well as I hear its strains, for its
tones on my nerves jar hard;
And my thoughts stray rudely to dim-lit lanes,
and the girl whom my follies barred. I
She was the Girl; but I did not know that
the Fates in their hidebound course
Had laid for me a long sea-tow with no
grease in a rusty hawse!
For a well-chafed life the Fates have
brought, and a love with a schooner rig
(Here the organ changed with a snarl and
a snort to a rollicking Irish jig!).
My heart is stirred as I hear its sound, and
my gouty feet strive well
To do the steps that my boyhood found, when
it danced towards n loveless Hell.
A loveless Hell —-from a misspent life and a
mother who petted and kissed,
And a woman who ought to have been my
wife, to-cherish and love....but, list!
The organ’s giving the dinkum cry, the sob-
stuff is put to flight!
It grinds out “A wandering minstrel I,”
and I reckon it’s nearly right !
For a wandering life on an endless sea with
a ship as my sweetheart true
Are the things, by God ! that are most of me
while the sky and the seas are blue!
We’ve heard a lot of the men outback, with
their swags and billies and things,
And the long, long tramp through the lone
bush-traclc —of which Harry Lawson
sings.
I don’t know Harry; but I desire that his
heart when a-tune will send
A wireless message, a mulga wire, to me on
the deep-sea end !
For he is a man of the gipsy breed, and that
breed is also in me.
So I wander on, and I do not heed, but
follow the path of the sea!
And the organ plays with a sob and a squeal,
and it mixes the tunes awry ;
Though the only tune of the lot I feel is “A
wandering minstrel I” !
But this is a song of an old-time day, a song
of a love confest,
A song of a love that was thrown away, a
song of a heart distrest!
A song of a cove that “don’t care a curse”—
a song of “don’t want to care”;
A song of better and bad and worse, a song
of the salt sea air!
But our course is laid, and we’ve got to sail;
for we're crimped by a heartless Fate,
Who flings us drunken over the rail to be
hazed by a soul-dried mate,
Whose name is Work. We must earn our
screw, though our hearts are in lotus-
land —•
But the organ-grinder (and Lawson, too)
I’m certain will understand!
N.S.W.
ALBATROSS.


Keep the Home Tyres Turning
PERPRIAU
TYRES
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH, NEWCASTLE.
DO YOU KNOW
That to-day the outstanding feature
of the PERDRIAU TYRE is the
perfect fabric case which is a good
mate for the Perdriau Rubber tread
which for years has held pride of
place as the highest quality Rubber
Tread ever offered to the Australian
Motoring Public.
That the plies of the Perdriau case
will not separate nor come apart even
though the tyre has met with an
accident and been run with a liner.
That the tyre can be run soft without
destroying the adhesion between the
plies.
1 hat this combination of good points
causes the great majority of Ferdriau
lyres to outlast the period, during
which they are guaranteed, by a big
margin.
That the chief pleasure of motoring
is gained by the confidence which
motorists have in PERDRIAU
TYRES.
t
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in'
Great Britain and
Australia.
a
N
P
X
A
5 ~
Pi*
a. *
mm
e vo
o£»rI
M
£
llhlUliini
s
////✓/////
THE BEST OF ALL BREAKFASTS,
AND IT COMES READY COOKED.
You feel just ready for a good, hot, nourishing meal these
frosty mornings, and there’s nothing you’ll like beter than
“Rex” Lorraine Smoked
Sausages.
Pop a tin into a saucepan of water
when you get up. Let it boil while you
are dressing. Then you can sit down to
a steaming-hot meal of the tastiest,
tenderest sausages that ever graced the
table. You will like the fine flavor, and
you’ll vote the gravy a rare treat. Ask
your Grocer for “Rex” Lorraine
Sausages and try them.
The Boys at the Frpnt reckon that
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
is a fair treat. Send a tin in every
parcel.
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Pack«r« of “Rei” Pnre Food Products.
PRUNING MADE EASY
The only Scientific Pruners on the Market are
Gaffy’s Patent CUTTING EDGES on Both
Blades,
ORCHARD I STS
this Saves Your Hands, and Time.
IDEAL FOR CUTTING SHEEP’S FEET.
Price 7/R Per Pair.
® Postage 6d.
N. CUTHRIDCE LTD,, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Q
Martell’s
Brandy
Dates from ijtf-—Fine Old Cognac
Of .unvarying excellence. Has full, fruity
flavor, while its richness in higher ethers
makes it of special value for use in hospitals.
The faultless quality of Thorne’s is borne
out in its mild mellowness, and in its
delectable flavor.
In all parts of the world —wherever a
thoroughly good spirit is appreciated—•
there you will find Thorne’s the favorite
of the most exacting men.
Over 80 years’ ripe experience goes into
producing this delightful spirit.
Ask for it by name, and look for the black
square bottle.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.-No. 1940.
THU US DAY, JUNE 21,1917.
Price 6d.
THE NEWEST CROMWELL.
“General Chang Shun has demanded the dissolution of the Chinese Parliament within 48 hours.” — Cable.
OLIVER CHANG SHI T X: “Take away that one piecee bauble!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 On. Cd. per annum you van have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
- :.:num.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters arc liable to be
■refused.
The contents of this paper arc copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded,
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be'paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.J G. S. Forsyth and Co., Iff/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.- —• N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
IJong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bloz. to lOoz., 21d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 1917.
COCKY AMONG THE RODENTS.
On the facts prevailing when the Australian
harvest of 1915 began to ripen there can be
little doubt that the Federal Government of
that day did the right thing in establishing a
wheat pool. The consequences of not doing
so would certainly—for a time, anyhow—
have been far more disastrous than any con-
ceivable hash the Government might make of
its job. But, as The Bulletin pointed out
at the time, the really important matter was
not whether the intentions of the State and
Federal Ministries were good in theory, but
to what extent they were going to be real-
ised in practice. Judgment would in the end
have to be passed, not upon a balancing of
the hypothetical calamities avoided against
the results achieved, but upon the actual
working of the arrangement entered into for
the salvation of the national cocky. It was
clear enough that once the scheme had been
inaugurated everything would depend upon
the wash-up, and that, if Cocky had reason-
able grounds for believing himself entitled
to a dividend of 3d., it would be futile to tell
him that he ought to be gratified with some-
thing less because he had escaped getting a
still more microscopical reward for his toil.
The pool was a business undertaking entered
into for the direct purpose of marketing the
Australian harvest to the best possible ad-
vantage of the grower—of securing for him
those prices which, without intervention by
the State, would, in the language of Hughes,
“remain mere glittering baubles to mock our
plight”—the public credit being utilised in
the meantime to finance “the backbone of the
nation” by advances of cash against the pro-
duce. Well, 18 months have passed, and
there are now two pools, with another loom-
ing on the horizon. The operations so far
have involved many millions of money, and
while it is impossible, because of the close
secrecy in which the working parts of the
pool are shrouded, to fully criticise the ad-
ministration it is well within the bounds of
legitimate comment to say that the experi-
ence of the last year and a half justifies a
suspicion that the management is miserably
failing to accomplish what it set out to do.
There is an almost universal belief among the
wheat-growers that they are not getting a
fair deal. It is a belief shared in by this
paper. While Cocky is being given an occa-
sional drop or two out of the pool, other
interests are dipping their buckets in.
The wheat of two harvests has been taken
clean out of the growers’ hands, nominally
passing to the control of State Boards and
a Central Board, the latter being the
linch-pin of the outfit. This Central Board,
consisting of politicians, allegedly does the
things that matter in the way of arranging
freights and finance and sales at the other
end. The whole business is actually in the
hands of what is called an Advisory Board
consisting of agents and charterers. On
neither Board is there a representative of
the wheat-growers. Applications for the
appointment of such a representative were
for a time steadily refused. Why? This
paper cannot guess. Afterwards the Prime
Minister agreed to make an appointment
provided someone was nominated by the
farmers’ organisations in the various States.
The nomination was made. The appoint-
ment was not. Instead, there has been a
prolonged “stall” and talk about taking a
poll of the farmers and an apparent anxiety
to bluff them off until the time arrives when
it will matter nothing whether there is an
election or not. It is monstrous that this
should be so. If ever men were entitled to
representation anywhere it is in a machine
that is disposing of their goods, a transaction
which in this case is equivalent to fixing
their wages. No other class of men would
tolerate being imposed upon in this way.
The meat men have been having a very con-
siderable share in the discussion about the
price of their commodity. In the wool-sale
the pastoralists are principals. There are
some differences in the nature of these
affairs and the wheat-pool, but not one of
them supplies a reason for putting a bandage
over the wheat cocky’s eyes, giving him an
advance of 2s. Gd. and the privilege of either
selling his scrip or waiting in the dark for
additional doles.
* * * *
Millions of bushels of Australian wheat
have been sold below the London parity.
There may be good reasons for this. If
there are, the growers are entitled to know
them. Millions of bushels are being shipped
at a freight rate which looks like highway
robbery, and until some explanation is made
of these atrocious figures this paper is going
to believe that, through the blundering
or worse of the Central Board and the
Advisory Board of agents and charterers, the
Australian farmer has garnered two harvests
on which an enormous war-tax is being
levied by the British Government, and which
is yielding immense and avoidable profits to
charterers and shipowners. The result of
selling millions of tons of wheat to Britain
at 4s. 9d. per bushel when the price in
London was 10s. 3d. is this: that the ship-
owners are able, while charging freights up
to .180 s. a ton, to land wheat in England on
which, first, the British Government makes
a selling profit. Subsequently the same Gov-
ernment makes the shipping company dis-
gorge a great part of the excess profits
earned by carrying the material; and, finally,
it requires the co. to hand over a substantial
part of the remaining profit by way of
income-tax. The price the Australian grower
should have received is cut very nearly in
halves, one piece going to him and the other
to someone else. There is no getting away
from it that either because the British Gov-
ernment encourages the earning of excess
profits or because it has failed to keep
freights down, the Australian wheat-pool is
being conducted on lines which throw upon
the Australian wheat-grower the full weight
of the burden. Canada, the United States
and the Argentine are not being dealt with
in this way. The holders of wheat in those
countries and the growers in England are
being paid the prices the Australian pools
were started to get. For what purpose has
this objective been abandoned by the Com-
monwealth and the deal placed upon an in-
verted basis, yielding no benefit to the
British consumer, restricting the State and
Federal Treasuries’ revenue from income-
tax, heavily reducing the national earnings
of Australia and yielding enormous revenue
to the British Government and its partner
who owns the carrying fleet? There may be.
“patriotic” and “Imperial” reasons for all
this. But they were not mentioned in the
bond. If they exist, the Australian cocky
ought to know what they are instead of
being surreptitiously fleeced.
What is happening now is that every-
body touching Australian wheat is mak-
ing a fat profit except the poor devil
who sweated himself at the plough
and the harvester. The “purchasing
agents” on their 3*d. a bushel arrangement
are doing very well: the shipowners and the
charterers and all the rest of that particular
family are getting a rake-off of well-nigh in-
credible dimensions; the British Government
is appropriating revenue; millers, mice, civil
servants, re-baggers and everyone else are
well-nourished and prosperous. At the tail-
end of the procession comes Cocky, dis-
tractedly wondering what has hit him and
taking what is left after everybody else is
satisfied. And it is a poor, wretched share
that is left. How the majority of growers have
managed to get through on what they have
been tossed this paper has not even a remote
idea. That in nine cases out of 10 they are
just scraping along from hand to mouth is
iio less certain than that if the existing sys-
tem is pursued much longer thousands of
them will be pushed off the soil. The Federal
Parliament is now in session. The manage-
ment of the wheat-pool is of vital import-
ance to Australia. It should be the business
of the Federal Parliament to insist on the
lid being taken off —to insist on getting from
the new Government a full, precise state-
ment of what has been, and is now being,
done, and the reason why the “glittering
baubles” have been appropriated by other
people, while Cocky’s head has been kept in
a bucket. Australia’s financial position is
not such that this business can go on with-
out a fuller understanding. And the position
of the wheat-grower is not such that he can
calmly contemplate his crops being devoured
by about 17 different varieties of mice.
GREECE.
Out of the dull red haze which marks the
progress of Ancient History as it followed
the imperial banners of successive races
from victory to victory rises the mixed but
heroic tale of Hellas. Greece was small;
her affairs were merely those of a few striv-
ing parochial councils; her wars, with one
exception, were tinpot struggles over the
position of the local pump or the hymns
that should be sung in church. But there
was something vital about it all —something
that found expression in art and poetry and
philosophy unlike those of any other land.
The breeze blew freshly down from the
Olympian range in the north of Thessaly,
and that breeze got into the Greek soul. The
ancient Greek was hardly a pleasant person,
lie had no very high regard for truth ; his
sentiments of honor were often a bit twisted ;
he was intolerant of all who did not possess
his particular brand of culture, and lie had
an overwhelmingly large idea of his import-
ance in the scheme of humanity. But he
had high courage, wide-open eyes, a hue faith
in doing things and a directness and
simplicity of thought which made a certain
harmony through all his discords. How long
Greece was Greece before authentic history
began archaeologists and ethnologists are now
guessing from the remains of ancient civili-
sation in Crete; but the Greece of history
is only a short-lived dog-fight around a few
capes and mountains in the bottom right-
hand corner of Europe, trimmed with
hexameters and marble and decorated with
oratory and song. A dozen generations takes
in the full sweep of Greek story at its best,
and then follows a period of wrangling decay
until the whole thing merges in the vast
placidity of the Roman Empire. Still, there
remained something vital in Christianised
Greece which in a sense conquered that
Empire; and the organisation which held
the world in awe tipped over to the east by
the weight of Greek thought, until Con-
stantinople and not Rome became the capital
of mankind. Various things happened then
which brought no added credit to the
Hellenic race, though they included a Greek
empire, an empire partly Greek and an
empire wholly barbaric which rested on
Greek props; but the invading Turk brought
it all to a dead finish and heaped Asia and
Mahomet on everything that looked worth
preserving. Greece fell into slavery and
piracy; and remote scholars reading the
works produced during the brilliant period
of the original dog-fight lamented the fate
of the people who had overthrown Xerxes
and carved white stone into miracles of grace
and beauty. So Greece was in the mud;
and schemes for pulling her out again made
the pulses of the person who had felt the
inspiration of old Greek thought leap as at
the call of a nation to arms. For Hellenism
goes far beyond the limits of mere blood and
race, and all who have felt the Greek fire are
in some sense—perhaps the best sense—
Greek patriots. Men who were left cold by
the thought of London or Paris quickened
into strange warmth at the mere mention of
Athens; and so it came about that people
the world over plotted with what was left
of lonian and Dorian for a glorious resur-
rection.
Greece rose from the tomb in a ricketty
and truculent fashion. The dead bones clat-
tered and the unburied knife came into evi-
dence early in the proceedings. To Europe,
looking on, it seemed that Greek hated Greek
far more fervently than he hated Turk, and
that the throwing off of the Ottoman yoke
must mean a fight to a finish by about a
dozen picturesque but infuriated sorts of
bandits. For this reason the Great Powers
were induced to take a hand ; and the only
thing the statesmen of the world could think
of to help to solve the problem was the pre-
sentation to the Greek nation of a foreign
king. The first monarch sent on approval
was dethroned with popular enthusiasm;
but the second stuck with some tena-
city to the bucking throne, and at last
seemed to. have almost mastered his mount.
All the time, however, there was a feeling
that Greece was not quite what Greece
might be, and that a Dane with German
connections was not altogether the ideal
leader for a people with a history and an
ancient repute. George and his son Con-
stantine were foreigners in thought as well
as race. Had Xerxes, before his overthrow
at Platea, suggested the settlement of Attic
and Spartan rivalries by placing a Car-
thaginian prince on the throne of all Greece,
the proposal would have been received with
classic blasphemv and plain Parnassian mud.
No Greek of the days when Piiryne’s smile
was in active service would have tolerated
the outsider; and the national consent to
the establishment of a Teutonic dynasty
even in the nineteenth century was grudg-
ingly given. Greece wanted freedom, not a
petty potentate playing tricks with an
alleged Constitution; but the wisdom of
Europe, anxious to nurse an old people into
new nationality, foisted upon it an institu-
tion that was wholly opposed to Greek ideas,'
ancient and modern. The result has been
what might have been expected. The Greek
nation is still at sixes and sevens; and Con-
stantine, playing the game of his German
brother-in-law, has made the people who de-
sired freedom and didn’t get it a menace to
every free country in the world. That it did
not become more than a menace was mainly
due to a Greek who thought his nation’s
honor and decency counted for more than
mere loyalty to the foreign king. In plain
fact, the attempts of more or less well-mean-
ing outsiders to shape the affairs of a people
whose aims and ideas they could not under-
stand have first and last been a bitter
failure. Constantine has slipped off the
shaky throne and his son is attempting to
mount it: but there will be no real settle-
ment of the Greek difficulty until the
Perigees or Themistocles whom the
modern revolution throws up takes charge
with understanding, and Greek meets Greek
on a plain, democratic basis without bowing
to the overlord or keeping an eye open for
alien intrusion.
This war is being fought mainly in defence
of the rights of small peoples; and it is
reasonably to be presumed that those rights
include the hisrh nrivilesre of calling their
souls their own. Hitherto the idea of inter-
national statesmen appears to have been
that all men were much of the same kind
and that if they couldn't see things in the
same way the best tiling that could be done
was to put a charge of gunpowder under
their vision. Plainly Greek thought is not
in the least like that of the north of Europe ;
and the most Danish king would never induce
Demetrius to dream or act like a Dane.
But he is not to be despised on that account,
nor is there any decent reason for supposing
him inferior to the Dane. On the contrary,
there are elements in the make-up of the
present relatives of Leonidas which suggest
that there should be a splendid nationhood
some day in that ragged corner by the
£Egean where some memory of Athene still
floats through the popular mind. The modern
Greek is not the ancient Greek ; but, given
a decent chance, he might readily prove him-
self a far better fellow. Those Serb elements
in the people that broke to some extent the
race continuity were probably as great an
advantage to the whole as the previous
Dorian invasion from which ancient historic
Greece dated its fresh start along progressive
lines. Had Byron’s idea of the yoke of the
Turk being broken by “native swords and
native ranks” been steadily kept to the front,
affairs might have looked a great deal more
pleasant to-day. True, there might have
been a lot of throat-cutting which outsiders
could not have understood; but the person
who did the cutting would have known why,
and the end of the tumult among hardy,
hard-fighting people whose aim was liberty
would have been liberty. Without nursing
or interference “from outside, without foreign
king or foreign suggestion in the Constitu-
tion. a Greek republic might have been in
existence at the beginning of the present war
whose weight on the side of Servia would have
prevented the hectoring of that small country
by Austria and compelled the Kaiser to find
another excuse for his war. The rights of
small peoples will involve a lot of breaking-
up in Europe; and the breaking-up will be
good for Europe if it can be done without
additional fireworks. One thing seems quite
clear. When Poland and Bohemia and a few
other places get their liberty, the memory
of Constantine and his wife will prevent
out-of-work kings being offered the chance
to make nuisances of themselves by the
establishment of new centres of intrigue.
Greece has added this lesson to a lot that
she taught us in the past; but she may have
bigger and better things to say in a freer
future.
QUEENSLAND’S EXPERIENCE OF
WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Men with bound hands; men lame and halt;
a youth with a broken finger laboriously
signing his name; a uniformed ambulance
man bandaging and unbandaging the broken
soldiers of industry; a medical officer ex-
amining the temporarily unfit; the sight of
lint and the smell of iodoform —this is the
Claims Department of the Queensland State
Insurance Office on the Workmen’s Compen-
sation side, now, to all intents, a State
monopoly. Ending April last there were paid,
since the State started its insurance business
last year, 6947 claims, totalling £71,389. No
employer may carry his own risk. Every
workman and workwoman has to be insured.
The duty of the State office is to see that the
claim, if sustained, is paid.
Some of the claims turned down and a
few of those paid are remarkable for the
ingenuity of the claimants; others are
peculiar illustrations of the vagaries of the
little blind devil of Chance. One claim was
made for the death of a man in a tragedy of
the track—a long, dry stage with one water-
bag ; the journey taken while the subject was
suffering a recovery; death on a stony rise
from thirst after rum. A horse bit a man,
and the bite cost the assurers £l2 3s. 4d. A
stage bomb exploded too early at rehearsal,
and the office paid for an eye injured by the
explosion of a gun on active service on the
stage. A girl fainted in a factory, and, while
escaping injury herself, injured another girl
by falling on her. A man’s eyes were
scorched by an electric flash from a switch-
board during a storm. A man, avoiding a
snake, fell and broke two ribs. A cook, while
sleeping, was bitten by “some insect” at a
cost of £7 in compensation—insect not pro-
duced. Sydney Smith’s review of the evi-
dence of the select committee of the House
of Lords into the conditions of child chimney-
sweeps relates that “sweepers’ cancer” from
the irritation of soot was common; and
Queensland has paid compensation in one
case of skin trouble resulting from the irrita-
tion of coal-dust. The rider of a bicycle
caught in a tram-rail; a jockey who fell in
a race; a fire-brigade man who injured him-
self while playing football as part of the
compulsory physical drill of the brigade—all
these made accepted claims. A girl employed
in a picture-show was accidentally knocked
down by a drunken man in the dark, and
received compensation; and a workman
killed by a fellow-workman who had run
amok was considered by the Chief Justice to
have suffered death as one of the risks of
his labor, and his widow was awarded £250
Damages were paid also in the case of a fire-
man injured in the row following on a
second fireman calling a third a “Russian” ;
in a case of “copper-itch.” caused by skin-
irritation from working in water containing
copper in solution; in a case of strain sus-
tained while preventing a fellow-workman’s
attempt at suicide; and the widow of a man
who had died of snake-bite, received while
attempting to kill the snake, was awarded
compensation for the loss of the bread-
winner.
When a number of soldiers attacked a
Greek’s fishshop in Brisbane a frightened
waitress jumped from a balcony and sprained
both ankles, and received compensation. A
njan whose employer had warned him of a
dangerous bull replied that he would fight
the bull. When the bull accepted the chal-
lenge the workman attacked with a crowbar,
and the bull won the toss. The injured
workman claimed against the State Insur-
ance, then withdrew the claim, and brought
suit against the owner of the bull, winning
damages.
Compensation was claimed for one case of
housemaid’s-knee, and was refused; but 140


claims of domestic servants have been paid.
There were four deaths paid for the
mont flood; one for a bite
hacked spider; one for a man who handled a
live wire. A man while eating lunch with
a fellow-workman threw a piece of iron at a
rat. He killed the rat, but the iron tangented
to the head of the rat-killer’s mate, mju »
him seriously. The Department paid.
Among the humors was the_ case oi a doj
who was thrown down and injured m t“ e
crush of the workmen to leave when the
whistle blew. And there was a large immi-
grant, 6ft. 2in. high, who claimed for in-
juries caused by being thrown down by a
calf 12 hours old. The claim was rejected,
but the immigrant laid siege to the office tor
three weeks. It will be bad luck tor the
State Insurance office if this Goliath
among calves survives the veal stage.
The work of the State Insurance Depart-
ment has been to establish lower rates and
higher benefits, with the permanent local in-
vestment of all its funds; and a late amend-
ment of the law is a fine thing in the direc-
tion of supporting the miner stricken with
diseases incidental to his calling. Among
these are miners’ phthisis; anklyostomiasis;
miner’s bent hand, bent knee or bent elbow
(a disease common to other than miners, but
in a more pleasant form), and inflammation
of the synovial lining of the wrist joint and
tendon sheaths. These are injuries far more
poignant and generally more permanent than
the injury of sudden violence. The Govern-
ment based its legislation on the fact that the
miner’s wages are the pay for miner’s labor,
and not an indemnity of the mine-owner
against disease resulting from the miner’s
calling. Wage-earners receive wages for work
and not for risks to health or bones, and in-
surance against such shocking diseases is as
much a necessity as daily bread. The com-
pensation payable is only fair to modern
minds, providing for the miner’s widow and
children and for the support of the tempo-
rarily incapacitated worker and his wife and
family. There are all sorts of safeguards to
prevent an influx to Queensland of miners
already incapacitated in other States, and
both the State and the employer are pro-
tected against abuse of the pi'ovisions of the
Act.
The Legislative Council has unfortunately
limited the operation of the Amending Act to
two years’ currency, as if all the diseases
of miners were to be stamped out in that
time; but the Government accepted the
limit, knowing that employers and employees
alike will be so satisfied in that two years as
to demand the re-enactment of the measure.
It comes into operation in July next, and is
sure to repeat the success of the State Insur-
ance Department in the field of compensation
to men injured in surface occupation.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Forty Millions for Corruption.
From the beginning of Federation until now
£10,167,215 has been handed out of the
national caslibox to the Post Office; and by
spending this sum and the whole of its
revenue the institution has managed to
struggle along. Ten millions to keep a pub-
lic monopoly standing on its legs—the per-
formance seems entitled to he regarded as
something like a world’s record of what may
be achieved on let-’er-slide principles. If the
Commonwealth had those millions now it
might find employment for the cash on a
more important enterprise. Likewise if it
had the £1.652,447 frittered away at Can-
berra the money would be useful. And there
is the little matter of £18.000.000 loaned out
of the note-issue fund to the States since the
war began, and the £10,500.000 borrowed by
the Commonwealth for the same hungry
crowd in the same period. Add together
these various lumps passed out by the
Federal authority in the interests of bloat
and muddle—the Post Office, Canberra and
the States —and you get a cheerful total of
£40,319,662. This would have met more- than
two-thirds of Australia’s war bill of the
current year. The payment of this money
to the States represents a gross outrage upon
the nation. It was money used to debauch
the community—to help blind lhe people to
their dangers and responsibilities. Accord-
to Bigjoh'n Forrest the Commonwealth
crippled itself. It did worse. It corrupted
itself and assisted the States to degradation.
The Matter of Reprisals.
While the Germans are getting all the war
they want on the Western Front and British
bird-men have all the best of it in cloud-
fighting. the baby-killing raids still take
placb, and there seems to be no sure mode
of stopping them. The fact is that just as
the patrol of the sea cannot, on account of
the extent of water to be covered, be perfect
at all places and times, so the air is too wide
and plentiful for complete observation of
murder on the wing. The reprisals attempted
by Britain do not seem to have amounted to
much; but the anger of people in London
and Manchester on this account is hardly
reasonable. To take aeroplanes away from
direct militarv duty as the Germans have
done and apply them to plain slaughter of
unarmed citizens is not the best way to win
the war. Of course, everybody feels that
Berlin ought to get a taste of its own fright-
fulness ; but that is coming in a better way.
The smashing blows which prove to all the
world that the German soldier is the inferior
of the British soldier, the German arms of
poorer quality than those of the Alfies. and
the German organisation which took 50 years
to perfect less effective than that which the
free nations called into existence in two—
these things are worth more than all the
local explosions which Fritz could gnash his
teeth over. What Berlin is being made to
feel is that, with uncounted crimes on her
head, her defenders can’t fight well enough,
her leaders can’t lead well enough and that
the Hell which is the special creation of the
Prussian city is thundering a little.nearer all
the time. That knowledge, while the hunger
bites, represents the best sort of reprisal
London can make.
The Nation and War Profits.
Tim Hip I‘ist financial statement made by
(M«l £3,000,000 in.
eluded in the estimated receipts for lJlb-l<
was to be derived from a tax on war-time
profits. The next statement of Australia s
problematical balance-sheet was made by
Poynton after the earthquake. Poynton
reckoned the national income was by the
annexation of part, of the profits going to be
swelled by £1,500.000. Forrest supervened
in March with a further statement m which
he estimated the revenue from war profits
at £BOO 000. Last week Forrest produced
an additional story about revenue and ex-
penditure. and as the financial year closes
in a couple of weeks he was down almost to
bedrock. The war profit receipts had, of
course, amounted to od., which represents a
fairly wide gap between expectation and
realisation. But Big JOHN was still optimis-
tic. He explained:—
The Bill is now prepared and will be immediately
introduced. It seems likely that the £BOO,OOO esti-
mated for 1910-17 but not received will be collected
during 1917-18, and the tax for that year during
1918-19.
It seems quite as likely that a year may be
in danger of losing itself in this labyrinth
unless someone keeps an eye on it. It
also seems reasonable to ask that the Bill
giving the Commonwealth authority to col-
lect should be produced without further
delay. The necessity for finding new sources
of revenue is urgent to the point of despera-
tion, and there is no levy which can be more
legitimately made than this; for the pile,
which has in the aggregate reached large
proportions, is mainly if not exclusively the
result of the expenditure of loan money. For
a time after the slaughter began most
trading and financial concerns seemed
to feel that a certain degree of shame
was attached to profiteering out of
war conditions. They knew. instinct-
ively—that they had no moral right
to this money—-no moral right to get rich
out of the horrors of war. The tax should
have been imposed then. That it was delayed
—if the Government had made up its mind
to collect it-—was an injustice not only to
the nation but to the persons liable to pay ;
and the longer the delay the greater the
injustice, because the greater the inconveni-
ence in the end.
—— -♦
The Hunt of the Submarine.
F.verytiiing seems to be upended in modern
war, and part of the general unexpectedness
is the discovery that the best way to deal
with an individual carrying on operations
under the water is to maintain another in-
dividual up in the clouds. At any_ rate, pend-
ing the invention of a mechanical shark
which will devour the submarine where it
lives, the aeroplane patrol appears to be the
most useful thing yet discovered, and it is
quite possible that if the Yankee-birds flock
to the North Sea in vast coveys it will
become dangerous for Fritz to even come
up to inspect the situation. Meanwhile,
though the latest reports about the torpedo
campaign show that the German is still very
destructive, there are features about the
performance which make it look as if John
Bull is keeping the road to the pantry
more open than it was a few months ago.
Up till March particulars of what unre-
strained frightfulness was accomplishing
was left to the imagination. Since then
reports of a sort have been made by the
Admiralty. From these it appeared that
for the next six weeks Fritz missed a lot of
shots. By the end of April he had, how-
ever, got both his eye and his hand in:
nearly twice the number of ships were
attacked and the sinkings went up, so to
speak, with a bound. The situation began
to look very bad : for it was obvious that if
the enemy continued at this rate, 102 ves-
sels of the larger class being blown up inside
three weeks, the end wouldn’t be at all
cheerful to think about. Since then more
use has apparently been made of the aero-
plane, and the record from the - time of the
submarine’s greatest success up till last
week reads this way (fishing vessels ex-
cluded) :
Vessels Proportion
attacked. Sunk. sunk.
Apl. 21 .. 82 55 67 p.c.
Apl. 28 .. 75 ' 51 68 „
May 5 .. SO 46 57 ~
May 12 .. 42 23 55 „
Mav 19 .. 36 27 75 „
May 26 . . 36 19 52 „
.Tune 2 .. 35 18 51 ~
June 9 .. 55 32 58 ~
But there is one blot on the figures. This
is the division of the vessels sunk into two
classes —over and under 1600 tons —and no
division of the vessels attacked. According
to the last report there was an increase from
15 to 22 in the larger vessels sunk. If these
were two- or three-thousand ton vessels, it
means much less than if they were
craft of 10 and 12 thousand tons. As the
submarine seems latterly to be devoting
most attention to the larger ship, more in-
formation of what lip was actually doing to
it would fill what is now a vacancy. And it
happens that this vacancy is at the point
where Australians have the greatest direct
interest.
The State and the Occasional Hyena.
Except upon the ground that the death
penalty should not be paid for murder —that
to hang a man is to do something futile —
there was no reason why Christian Benzing
should have been spared. The crime of
which he stood convicted was of the grossest
kind. There was no shadow of doubt about
his guilt, nor is it conceivable that if this
man had been shot red-handed in his tracks
near the torn and quivering body of the
child he so brutally did to death, there would
have been anyone to say that he did not
richly deserve the bullet. Benzing enticed
a little girl away from the companions with
whom she was playing by the roadside in
one of Sydney’s outer suburbs, took her to a
secluded spot, and there committed crimes
which are scarcely to be thought of without
seeing red. That he knew what he was
doing is beyond question. This was not one
of those offences that are committed sud-
denly by men in moments of excitement. It
was a measured and deliberate act. and the
effort to escape the consequences alone ban-
ishes the theory of irresponsibility. If any
murderer should ever have been hanged
Benzing was the man. The midnight appeal
made to Acting-Premier Fuller by a depu-
tation from the State Labor Conference
rested upon no more solid ground than a
general objection to hanging. The story
about the prisoner having been sunstruck
when an infant meant nothing, though it
illustrated the flimsy evidence on which cut-
and-dried theories on human conduct are
built by untrained minds. Against hanging
there is in very many cases room for pro-
test. Scientific research and the experience
of many countries prove this to be so. But
both research and experience can be easily
misinterpreted, and though The Bulletin
earnestly desires to see the criminal code
amended in the light of the wider knowledge
now possessed, it is unable to avoid the con-
clusion that what happened in France and
the United States have terrible significance.
The history of the social experiments in
those countries have broken into fragments
many of the theories formulated by men
horrified at the almost indiscriminate hang-
ings of their time. And until we see some
more satisfactory explanation of the increase
of murder in the first degree in France after
the abolition of the death-penalty and the
decrease of murder after the restoration
thereof, how can we escape believing what
the French Government was driven to
believe?
Wage-bonus Systems.
The observations of a man who knows some-
thing about it: —
W. W. Fohwood, of South Aus., when re-
tiring from the presidency of the Australian
Chambers of Manufactures, advocated bonuses
for workmen to encourage production. If Mr.
Norwood will permit the expression, he is
on the right track, but what made him spoil the effect
by speaking kindly of “an agreed bonus payable every
day for all extra work performed”? There is not an
authority in the manufacturing world of the United
States who is not trying to provide against men buck-
ing up for a day or so in order to earn bonus, and
then slowing-down to something under day-wages rate
—easing up, in short, for another burst.
There are four well-known wage-bonus systems in
the world, and the system of Harrington Emerson,
an American, is probably best adapted to Australia.
H. L. Gantt, however, would run a very good second,
if not level. Emerson, when called into a factory to
advise, overhauls the plant and the entire arrange-
ments from start to finish, seeking to lessen the work
of the operatives all he can. Then he takes the past
times for doing each job, allows for help to the men
by his own innovations, and fixes a standard time
for every bit of work. Anyone coming up to this
standard, with all the wrinkles Emerson’s expert
efficiency tradesmen can show him, gets 20 per cent,
added to his wages. That achievement is called 100
per cent, efficient. But if a man takes time and a
half to do the job, he reaches the point where the
bonus starts. He is “two-thirds efficient.” This,
however, means a very small bonus. But the task is
easy, and it marks the beginning of bonus-earning
capacity and gives encouragement. For 67 per cent,
efficiency the bonus is an addition of .01 per cent, to
the day-rate of pay; for 74 per cent, efficiency, 1 per
cent. ; for 90 per cent, efficiency the bonus is 10 per
cent.; for 100 per cent, efficiency, 20 per cent. After
that, all the time a man saves on a job is paid to
him in full, just as for piecework.
The great expert Gantt likes to set a hard task,
and to encourage the operatives to become skilful
enough to do it, and earn a swinging bonus. He
will show them everything known about how best to
do the job, to get all the machinery and power
working as they never worked before, to avoid
inconvenience to the men, and eradicate entirely all
vexation of good artisans by incompetent foremen,
overseers and managers. But 'when Gantt says three
hours is the proper time for a job, it has to be done
in three hours before the workman by the strict
letter gets anything over his day-rate of pay, which
in Australia would be that fixed by the industrial
courts. For doing a three-hour job in five hours a
man is paid for five hours. For doing it in three
hours and five minutes he is paid for three hours
and five minutes. But for doing it in three
hours he is paid for four hours; and if he can get it
done in two hours he would still be paid for four
hours, by time rate, thus earning double pay. As a
matter of fact, anything like three hours and 10
minutes would also be paid as four hours, or some-
thing near it, because Gantt is an enthusiast and
does everything he can to develop skill when intro-
ducing his methods in any works.
A point to note is that both Gantt and Emerson
have paid big bonuses on a month’s work which has
been less than was usually done by day-rate. Men
have bogg'ed in and earned a bonus, and then
“slowed-down.” Nowadays, to stop that, Gantt
pays an extra bonus to men who earn their ordinary
bonus every day, and Emerson adds up a man’s time
for a month, and sets that against his month’s per-
formance to arrive at the bonus due. Therefore, when
Mr. W. W. Forwood, president of the Association of
the Chambers of Manufactures of this big Australia,
suggests that the bonus should be paid every day, he
might do worse than go and look it all up in a book.
The Halsey and Rowan premium systems of bonus
can be studied by the same means, but the Rowan
is not adapted to Australian conditions, and it is
doubtful if the men would reckon that either it or
the Halsey plan would give them enough reward for
increased output.
*-
The Worker (Sydney), in answering Joe
Cook’s chortle that the Labor movement is
dead, declares: —
At the present time what is known as the Indus-
trial Section is supreme in the Conference and on the
executive, and there is much irritation among the
minority, which includes some of the best and most
loyal men and women that ever devoted their lives in
a spirit of self-sacrifice to the well-being of the work-
ing-class. But why . not recognise that this develop-
ment was inevitable, because necessary to the salva-
tion of the movement? Why not join the Industrial-
ists? The door of membership is wide open, and
there are no prohibitive conditions.
This is a remarkable statement following, as
it does, directly upon the “unremovable” ex-
communications lately pronounced by the
P.L.L. Conference on all who honestly dif-
fered with the majority of that body on the
question of compulsory service. What the
Worker should have said was that the door
was wide open to anyone who would follow
the dictates of a small clique with blind,
dog-like fidelity, but that the hoof would be
immediately applied to hoist him for ever into
the outer darkness if he so much as hinted
an objection to certain planks which had
lately been clumsily nailed across the old
platform. Joe Cook may be doing the fool’s
rejoicing-act over the death of a thing he
wishes dead ; but the Labor movement can
have no life save as a destructive and
dangerous force until it gets rid of the notion
that coercion in matters of opinion can go
hand-in-hand with progress. To restrict
thought is the last and most damning treason
to democracy, and of that treason the P.L.L.
stands convicted. t
The water-waggoner protests too much.
Whether beer is a recruiting agent or not it
is tolerably certain that Cold Tea isn’t. The
figures of recruiting before and after the
carrying of six-o’clock closing may not be
an argument in favor of beer; but they cer-
tainly don’t show that drought stimulates
enlistment. • Now Cold Tea advances anti-
shouting as another means of filling up the
ranks. There isn’t the smallest ground for
supposing that it would do anything of the
kind. On the contrary, it seems probable
that mates more often decide to go together
to the recruiting office while sharing beer
than at any other time. The slight glow of
alcohol minimises the difficulties in the way.
This may be a bad thing or a good thing, but
while enlistments are voluntary and hap-
hazard it is something which must be taken
into account.
In The Bulletin last week a contributor
recalled that Holland, besides telling mothers
how to feed the baby, tells the parents in
certain cases how to keep the infant out. of
the world. On the heels of that suggestion
this comes from a contributor in another part
of Australia: —
In a truancy prosecution in a Melbourne court
the other day, the father came to answer for a
13-year-old girl who was not attending school. Ho
was a poor shadow suffering from that vague ill, a
“bad leg”—he said he could very seldom work, and
his looks bore out the plea. He added that his wife
was a chronic invalid, practically bedridden, and,
moreover, she had a baby. The 13-year-old was the
eldest of five children, two of whom were cripples,
and she “wasn’t strong.” It was necessary that
she should stay at home to look after the deplorable
household. The truant-officer’s statement confirmed
the father’s story, and it was decided to get an
exemption from further schooling for the 13-year-old.
The invalid wife and mother of cripples, please note,
had a baby —she will probably go on having them.
The same day, investigating a “missing girl” screech,
I discovered that the wanderer was the 22-year-old
eldest of a family of 11; she was what is known
as “weak,” and had a spell at the receiving-house.
Her father and mother are cousins and she has four
deaf-and-dumb brothers! A few days later I was
on a case where a man had been cut down from
the rafters of his outhouse. The Coroner gave it
as felo de se, but there was evidence of deceased
having been in the receiving-house a few months
previously. He left a poor, faded wisp of a 30-year-
old wife and eight children, the eldest aged 10.
She seemed quite relieved to be a widow. At the
time when the father’s conduct made the receiving-
house period necessary, the wife lodged the com-
plaint at the police-station with No. 8 a few days
old in her arms. “Don’t you think you ought to
cut this out?” the sergeant asked, indicating No. 8.
“I’ve tried,” she said, “but he won’t listen!” In
one of, I think, Baring-Gould’s books there is the
story of a Staffordshire village wholly peopled—the
population dating back hundreds of years—by two
families or tribes, the members of one of which
were all hunchbacks and of the other all so de-
formed that they went on all-fours. It was prob-
ably true —anything is possible in Merrie England—
but do we want to encourage that sort of thing here?
With any policy for the encouragement of popula-
tion there will need to be a parallel one for the
discouragement of some classes of it. The three
instances I have mentioned came under my notice
in one week in one Melbourne suburb.
»
The Vic. P.L.O. has adopted several beauti-
ful, dream-like proposals, one of which is—
That the freedom of the seas be secured on the
lines laid down by President Wilson in May, 1916,
where he advocated a universal association of nations
to maintain inviolate the security of the highway
of the seas for the common and unhindered use of all
nations of the world.
This cry for the freedom of the seas was
first raised in Germany, and what does it
mean? That Germany should be free to
ship an army unhindered to any part of the
coast of Britain, Ireland, Australia, America
or elsewhere? Or that Britain should have
the whole world’s permission to transport
troops to any country at war with Ger-
many? If he meant that it is one thing to
besiege a city, as the Germans besieged
Paris in 1870/ and quite a different thing to
blockade Hamburg, as the Allies are blockad-
ing it now, President Wilson talked non-
sense. But if he meant, as he did, undoubt-
edly, that the sinking of passenger ships or
neutral trading vessels and fishing boats by
submarines is a damnable offence against
civilisation and humanity which ought to
be prevented, if possible, by a universal
association of nations, he was merely utter-
ing the truth which everybody outside the
Central Powers already admits. But how
is it to be prevented? How is the freedom
of the seas to be secured any more than the
neutrality of Belgium was secured? What
means of doing it does the P.L.C. suggest?
Australia, being a large tract of land entirely
surrounded by water, is more interested in
this question than Germany ever can be. We
are not less concerned even than Britain in
arriving at a clear understanding of the
German-made term. It is therefore up to
the P.L.C. to drop large, fine-sounding
phrases and state precisely what it means
by proposing to maintain inviolate the secur-
ity of the watery highway to the land we
live in and how it proposes to do it.
The notoriously incapable N. S. Wales
State Wheat Office refused for many weeks to
admit that there was a. mice plague. When
it was impossible to overlook the pest a few
weary officers went languidly into the coun-
try and did the wrong thing. After prelimi-
nary bungling, men were put on at high
wages rebagging and restacking the wheat.
In some cases before the new stacks were
more than a few tiers high they began to
collapse again from fresh attacks by r .the
mice, which seem to prefer new bags. With-
out extraordinary supervision, indeed, it is
next to impossible to prevent mice being
thrown into the new stacks. Therefore there
is a good sporting chance of the “recon-
ditioning” of wheat becoming a perma-
nent industry until there art either no
more mice or no more wheat. There will
certainly be no coin left for the cocky—if
there is any cocky left. It would have been


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co.. Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill. Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.s
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■jr-
©
Si
&r.
SSls
m
ms*
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office : Corner Pitt
&, King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRJE &l ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY 11. GARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
more, economical and wiser to have simply
emptied the grain out in bulk, leaving it to be
re bagged when the mice had disappeared and
it became necessary to carry it to the seaboard.
'' ith little trouble hundreds of wheat-sheds
—they have concrete floors and good roofs—
could have been turned into temporary silos,
hven if the grain were stacked in the' open
and covered with “cocky chaff” the loss from
weather would be a trifle compared with the
cost of rebagging. The latter means at least
•)d- per bag—3d. per bushel, or more. And
that is exclusive of the value of the spoiled
grain. Why should the wheatgrower
have to stand all this? He isn’t responsible
for the mess. The wheat was out of his
control. lie isn’t even represented on the
Wheat Board, which nominally does control
it. To put all this charge upon his shoulders
is, then, a crying shame. And that is as
true of the farmers of Victoria and S. Aus-
tralia as it is of the cocky of N. S. Wales.
How About Reinforcements for Billjim?
I*’ Russia is not actually out of business the
German has for the present, at any rate,
not much reason to be fearful about the
Bear leaping into his back yard. For the
Bear has not yet realised the terrible danger
his new-won liberties are in ; and though he
jnay wake up and yet take an effective part
in the disturbance, it is far more likely that
his land will be the home of chaos long after
the war is over. The Western Front is the
place where victory or defeat must be looked
for; and with the French armies now practi-
cally standing on the defensive waiting for
Uncle Sam. it is just plain lunacy to imag-
ine either that more men are not wanted or
that the Hindenbukg line is made of tissue-
paper. John Bull, Brother Jonathan
and the armies of France may pitch the
German out of Belgium. Unless they do so, the
German is going to start business again up
near our own Cape York. And that means
constant danger for Australia —until the war
is resumed. There is only one way whereby
Australia may help to avoid the liability of
having to stand practically at arms for the
future. That is by defeating the German so
thoroughly now that his jumping-off place at
Australia’s back door will not be restored to
him. If this war drags to an inconclusive
finish Australia may look confidently for-
ward to hard military training and unceas-
ing and burdensome defence expenditure. We
may not be able to escape it, anyway. The
best that we can do may not avail us. The
second-best certainly will not. Possibly by
Conscription during this war we may avoid
Conscription in the future. Bv loafing now,
by neglecting our national duty, we simply
invite an adjournment of the struggle, a
second instalment later on, and a hard mili-
tary rdgime in the meantime. Which is it
to be?
«
“Mclan” : Randolph Bedford (B.
24/5/’l7) refers to some proposal by a
syndicate to acquire the Northern Territory
and demands inquiry as to the price offered,
indicating his belief that it amounted in
value to a peanut. This seems very probable
in view of the effort of the Home and Terri-
tories Department to divest itself of large
slices of the country at peanut rates to
speculative syndicators, as set forth in the
Commonwealth Gazette of April 19.
Under that offer, any speculator, for the
magnificent sum of £lB9 13s. 6d. (one year’s
rent), can secure 42 years’ lease of 2029
square miles (1,298,560 acres) somewhere
on the Queensland border. For the first,
three years of the term the lessee has noth-
ing whatever to do, in order to hold the land,
except pay the yearly rent (which during
that time remains unchanged) and rates and
taxes, if any, and put 12 head of cattle upon
it. The Department may have intended the
provision for the providing of cattle to be
per sq. mile, but whatever its intention the
conditions of tender, as printed, provide
only as stated. The conditions contain no
restriction on sub-letting, so that the specu-
lator has a clear three years (which under
other conditions can be stretched, without
further outlay, to nearly seven) to cast
around for an opportunity to pass on his
concession at the maximum unearned profit
obtainable. There is certainly a condition
that the lessee is to ei'ect homesteads, but
nothing to compel him to start doing so
before the 42nd year of the term. Altogether
it looks like a gift distribution, and it would
be interesting to get a list of the names,
addresses and family connections of the for-
tunate lessees.
*
“ J.11.M.A.”: I am afraid we have got into
the bad habit of producing or trying to pro-
duce reforms by lying about the necessity
for them; and that is a very dangerous thing
in a democratic country, because it often
loads to the reform taking a wrong direc-
tion. This is why I grieve to read entirely
false things about the recent execution of
one Wilson in Sydney. For instance: —
In Wilson’s case the drop was too short. Inci-
dentally the rope tore the mask off, leaving the face
revealed.
The twitching- of the muscles in that face was
horrible to behold. They twite hed horizontally, per-
pendicularly and in queer zig-zag patterns.
Naturally the weight of Wilson's body extended
his neck ; never, I verily believe, was a man’s neck,
even by the most fantastic freak of nature, so long
and so strangely thin.
The tightness of the knot darkened the blood in
the veins, which seemed to stand out from the flesh,
quivering, quivering.
Quivered, too, the muscles in the arms, and no
wonder ; for Nature, obviously against Wilson’s will,
was fighting for life on the unfortunate man’s behalf.
It fought to the last fraction of a gasp.
For ten long minutes this went on. Then the man
died—not hanged, as hanging is generally under-
stood, but STRANGLED —strangely, awfully and by
slow degrees.
This is fine, gruesome nnd realistic writing,
but it has the demerit of being wholly un-
true —which it is easy to understand when
you consider the fact that ’’Tt.J.C.,” who
wrote it, was not there. I was there, on
behalf of the Telegraph (Sydney 1 and
the only others present, besides the officials
and the corpse, were the representatives of
the three other Sydney dailies. Wilson
dropped about 10 feet, and it was impossible
to see his face twitching, because the mask
still covered it when ho hung at the end of
the rope. The usual spasmodic muscular
movements continued in the body for some
minutes, but nevertheless lie died at once,
and was no more strangled “strangely,
awfully and by slow degrees’’ than he was
beheaded. The evidence of the prison sur-
geon, Dr. Lee Brown, bears this out. With
the other press representatives I walked up
under the gallows and inspected the body
closely. We did not see anything of the sort
that “8..T.C.” describes so graphically. A
hanging is a horrible sight at any time, but
of the three that the writer has witnessed
Wilson’s was the least horrible.
Billjim has to do all sorts of things in
order to beat Hindenburg. One part of his
military duty recently in England and
France was to deliver the lying little sheet
which the I’hewsionists ran prior to the
general election. A Billjim who got up in
uniform and addressed a party political meet-
ing would find himself dealt with by the
regulations. That being so, some member
with a little decency left might inquire who
gave orders for Billjim in uniform to act as a
canvasser for a political party —and to do it
as part of his military duty.
George Burkett, State Recruiting-Officer
in Westralia. is up against new Governor
Ellison Macartney. On May 30 there was
a swell concert in Perth in aid of the Parker-
ville Waifs’ Home. His Ex. lent Govern
ment House ballroom —a huge and gorgeous
barn —for the occasion, and went to tin*
concert. The world and his missus (mostly
missus) were there. During the evening
Burkett blew along, and wanted to address
the crowd on recruiting. The management
demurred, and consulted the Governor, who
refused permission. Burkett’s indignation
was white-hot. He dashed into print next
day, and also wired Donald Maekinnon.
Then the letter-writing public got busy
and tussled out the ethics of the thing. But
Macartney hasn’t said a word.
Sydney is learning about the wharfies’
union that Prime Minister Hughes bossed
until the other day. Business men say they
lose £lOO 000 a year by cargo ’ullage: and
a special constable on wharf-duty has stated
on oath that wharf-laborers boycott honest
workers who won’t take loot. The gangers are
forced to reject these honest men when they
apply* as the dishonest ones won’t work
with them. Worse still, they are pushed
out of the Union. Made on oath, it is about
the most staggering indictment ever filed
against organised labor in Australia; and
it demands the immediate attention of the
Department of Labor. It ought to have the
immediate attention of the Trades Hall and
the Labor party, too. That there should
be such a scandal shows how badly the move-
ment has neglected educational work—and
that is the only work which can count in
the long run.
Let The Bulletin introduce an Anzac’s
sister to the whole mob. She was standing
outside the Melbourne Town Hall lately,
a rosy Gippsland girl, and heard Lieut. A.
Steege, recruiting officer, make a speech. It
wasn’t much.of a speech, but it was the first
recruiting appeal she had ever heard. It
went right home ; and when it was over she
walked up and said simply: “If the doctors
want any skin or fresh blood to assist in
operations on wounded soldiers, they can
take what I have. Do you think that would
be any help?” Steege felt something stick-
ing in his throat, but mafiaged to say he
would inquire.
Will Ashton, the Adelaide painter, back
in his native town after driving a Home
Service motor-car in and about London
since December, 1915, helped to buy the
landscape by Arnesby Brown lately added to
the Adelaide Gallery; but he and the other
selectors could not “fill” the standing order for
a good war-picture—as usual, they will be
produced from the imagination when it is all
over.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Canary Cottage”
Criterion “Penelope”
Palace “Turn to the Right”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
I.yceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pink Lady”
Royal “Grumpy”
King’s “The White Chrysanthemum”
Princess’s “The Story of the Rosary”
Tivoli .... “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” and Vaudeville
Auditorium The Cherniavskys
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Olyaiiha Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
-
This journal freely forgives Cyril Maude
aud the management of Melbourne Royal for
having introduced it to the comedy-drama of
“Grumpy” under false pretences. In desir-
ing everybody, especially press-writers, to
“keep to themselves the solution of the
mystery contained in the play,” the manage-
ment is just pulling the public leg. Every-
body is set thinking beforehand of a mys-
stery; but the mystery has no reasonable
existence, and only appears to be made
possible in Act 2 because one was promised.
The next two acts are openly devoted to the
discomfiture of the culprit who is then known
to have stolen a £90,000 diamond in the
dense darkness at the end of Act 1. Some
dramas with diamond robberies in them have
a doubt running through the plot and a
thin surprise at the finish. This play ex-
cites very little doubt and no surprise at all,
but its business motto is
MUM.
Friend Grumpy is a lawyer keen, much worn and
bent with age—
A comic ancient, full of damns, who dominates the
stage.
He chuckles, grumbles, dozes, makes strange noises
with his nose,
And dodders round like one whose life is just about
to close;
He slaps his flunkeys’ faces and he pulls his nephew’s
ear,
But somehow they seem quite convinced that
Grumpy is a dear.
“GRUMPY," AT MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Cyril Maude
as Grumpy.
The man who lost
the diamond.
Ho calls them fools, but all the same they love old
Grumpy still
(Perhaps they all expect to be remembered in his
will) ;
And presently the fates conspire to aid his magic
spell;
He blossoms forth as Sherlock Holmes—but how, We
May Not Tell.
Virginia, his grandchild sweet, a flirty early peach,
Has two men who are struck on her, and she makes
eyes at each.
The one, her cousin Ernest, hopes to wed her by-
and-bye;
The other johnnie means to mash her promptly on
the sly ;
And Jarvis has the better chance to make the damsel
fond,
For someone knocks poor Ernest out and cops his
Diamond—
A brilliant of abnormal size confided to his care,
The loss whereof leaves Ernie poor and striekeri with
despair.
Old Grumpy’s catching of the thief, and how that
catch befell,
Provides the drama’s mystery whereof We May Not
Tell.
A valet and a footman tall, a Susan servant trim
Who teases long-haired Keble (no one likes the look
of him) ;
A large, dishonest Hebrew, beaming briefly on the
scene;
A doctor with a noisy voice and dark, forbidding
mien;
The doctor’s wife, a matron plump—twelve charac-
ters, all told—-
Make up the cast that radiates from Lawyer Grumpy
old.
And one of them commits the crime and suffers for
the sin.
But whether he or she be tall, or short, or fat, or
thin,
And hath the play a feeble end, or doth it finish
well ?
AVe could, we think, enlighten you, but, oh, WE MAY
NOT TELL!
In thus averting comment from the “mys-
tery” of the plot the management practically
blocks specific reference to the plot’s im-
probabilities. Still, they matter very little.
The play succeeds because it is a real enter-
tainment, containing a great part for an ex-
ceptionally humorous and forcible character
actor. In presenting an absurdly likeable old
man in a thoroughly human manner Cyril
Maude blinds the eyes of his audience to the
fact that the character is consistent only in
its theatrical inconsistencies. Grumpy de-
mands, first, sympathy for his funny senility
and physical feebleness, and then respect
for his sudden reckless valor in the field of
lurid melodrama. He assumes a natural air
of acuteness whilst doing silly things. Then
at a critical moment he plays the fool for the
sake of comedy effect, instead of taking
prompt action. He does both the improbable
and the impossible in a natural manner.
He is convincing in the same way that a
character in a Bernard Shaw comedy is con-
vincing. It is so amusing that you allow it
to wear a mask of reality rather than tear
off the disguise.
* * * #
In this case, apparently, the authors con-
ceived a somewhat unconventional old chap
of conventional stage type who might be
sufficiently humanised by the actor to be
able to carry four acts on his shoulders.
Cyril Maude did the humanising, and did
it very well. He is a capital actor, and he
made a capital speech after curtain-fall on
Saturday. The part of Grumpy’s grand-
daughter gives a good chance to a handsome
young actress who can suggest a beautiful
young nature in a flirtatious mood, and give
an impression of artless modesty suffering
its first shock. Miss Dorothy Cumming
plays the sweet girl charmingly. The pro-
mise she revealed when she was the unknown
Australian actress, playing Josephine to
Julius Knight’s Napoleon, has been more
than fulfilled. With only two or three excep-
tions, the acting is admirable all round. H.
Ranson (as the nephew), Edward Lester,
Frank Elliott and Betty Murray (Susan)
may be picked from the bunch, although the
merit of Elliott’s performance as the attrac-
tive Mr. Jarvis is mostly negative.
“Grumpy,” carefully staged, of course, may
be counted good for weeks to come.
>JC %
Penelope adored her husband. She loved
him not wisely but too clingsomely. As
hubby was a doctor he soon discovered a
patient who, like the barndoor fowl, gave her
lover a run for his money. When Penelope
found out she summoned the whole family
and announced that she was going to have a
divorce. However, her father, a celebrated
mathematician, added two and two together
and discovered that the result was four.
Applying his twelve-cylinder brain to this
problem, and incidentally disclosing a re-
markable knowledge of the sex that always
makes five the sum of two plus two, he
diagnosed hubby’s complaint to be the result
of too much wifely adoration. His remedy
was the old one, so successfully applied on
the stage and so invariably a failure in real
life —that of deliberately throwing hubby
into the other cat’s claws. The stage conse-
quence is that hubby gets sick of the other
Avoman’s cuddlesome ways and yearns to re-
turn to a wiffe grown strangely indifferent.
Working out this plot Somerset Maugham
brings to it a delightful mastery of clever
dialogue and an appreciation of high comedy.
It takes him, however, an act and a half
before he really interests his audience; but
thenceforth the play moves with a swift
logic and many surprises to a neat and con-
vincing end. The third act is a masterpiece
of dramatic construction and unsuspected
situations.
* * * #
The production of “Penelope,” at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday, was thrown out of
gear by the failure of Sidney Stirling to
make the figure of the mathematical father a
dominating character: the author’s intention
was obviously to make the Professor the
pivot of the play. Graham Browne provides
another of his finished comedy characterisa-
tions, _ delightfully differentiated from his
part in “Kitty.” Leslie Victor, always reli-
able, throws himself with gusto into the
part of the sort-of-conscious snob never seen
except behind the footlights. As the charac-
ter is a pure stage convention Leslie Victor’s
overacting does not matter. Gwen Bur-


W
&
PSwift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney^
ft
DT
roord sl son
tOWDON. ENGLAND. V
FINEST DRY GIN
&, OLD TOM
A NEW AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
FOR
INSULATING COLD-AIR CHAMBERS AND REFRIGERATORS.
COVERING BOILERS, HOT WATER AND ST EAM PIPES.
PACKING UNDER HEAVY MACHINERY, &c., &c.
HAIR FELT
MADE IN SHEETS, 34in. x 20in. x Jin. BALES EACH 50 SHEETS. " f
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, SHIP CHANDLERS.
FULL PARTICULARS AND NAME OF NEAREST WHOLESALE “HOUSE
Obtainable from MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., /
Manufacturers, I
384 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE
H'c Pag Postage.
*
*
o
(5
CO
o
r
PE APES &C? W>\
A GOOD HAT
Made in Australia, and a credit to modern
Australian methods. A hat with good
'style?, finish and wearing quality—and
lower in price than any imported hats of
similar quality.
Smooth Felt, Light Grey, Mole, or Slate,
easily" convertible, brim unbound, 2i
inches wide, Confidently recommended.
Peapes & Co Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 8 311 George Street, SYDNEY
roughs retrieves her previous failure by a
quite possible presentation of the luscious-
looking other cat, though her deep breathing
exercises, designed to express emotion, aie,
in the revealing costume she wears, a little
too realistic. Ethel Morrison adds a touch
of quiet comedy to her restrained acting ot
Penelope’s mother. Two more or less
unnecessary characters, mere patients in the
doctor’s surgery, justify their intrusion by
the clever acting of Mrs. George Laun and
Victor Tatnall. Marie Tempest, in a part
that calls for a wider range of comedy and
pathos, again delights by her mastery of the
high-comedy mood. The polish of her art
is so fine as to be almost unobtrusive ; she
deliberately sinks herself in the ensemble,
but her charm is inescapable. The art of
this rather quiet comedy is artistically
emphasised by the taste of the surroundings.
One feels that these rooms are really fur-
nished by the nerson living in them.
* =:= * -V
Gerald Massey arrested part of the atten-
tion of a good house at Melbourne Athe-
meum on Saturday. Gerald belongs to the
school of popular reciters who stroll over
battlefields on the arm of Kipling, short-
handing the converse of Thomas Atkins and
his kind. The artist’s programme is largely
a profusion of heroes, cemeteries and
women’s tears, but occasionally he sweeps
aside the gun-smoke to peer into the soul of
a Yarra banker or sketch the vanities of a
London bloke. Gerald Massey’s art is fair
descriptive reporting in Kiplingesque vein,
and, though never sounding the real thing,
is a presentable counterfeit in sentiment and
humor. Four appearances ending next Satur-
day night will give the reciter a chance to
expose the resources of his repertoire and
enable a supporting company of five to effec-
tively decorate his breathing spaces. Among
his supporters are a taking baritone, Tom
Minogue, and a strong-voiced songstress.
Florence Fawaz, who makes a young and
passionate thing from “Samson and Delilah”
as bloodless as a Sunday-school glee.
“Turn to the Right,” already in its ninth
week at Sydney I’alace, will pack up its
peach preserve on June 29.
The successful run of that masterpiece,
“The Story of the Rosary,” was curtailed by
the Fuller management at Sydney Grand
Opera House in order to allow students of the
Elizabethan drama an opportunity to study
a curious antique melodrama, apparently
popular some centuries ago. This composi-
tion (by a hack dramatist or somebody else
of the same name) is called “Hamlet,” and
deals in a loose, vague way with the scan-
dals of the Court of Denmark. The melo-
drama is full of hackneyed quotations and
long speeches—even the ghost is garrulous—
and the author doesn’t seem to have been
sure of his facts. In the name-part Allan
Wilkie even excels his masterly work in the
previous play. To-night will be the last
opportunity to see him and Fredetc. Watts.
This lady makes a charming Ophelia in a
play that would make a better film drama.
On Saturday night the Italian Grand Opera
Co. will return to stay a few weeks. “II
Trovatore” will be followed by nightly
changes.
# * *
“Canary Cottage” improves on acquaint-
ance—perhaps because the listener doesn’t
worry about following the,cobweb plot of the
gay insanity the second time he visits Syd-
ney Majesty’s. These shows should offer
special term to beginners.
* * *
Ada Reeve is booming as gaily as ever at
Sydney Tivoli. So far as Australia’s experi-
ence goes, she is head of the class of vaude-
ville artists who have to make real escapes
from their clamorous audiences. The
orchestra has to cover the retreat of many
other practitioners. Ada’s method is de-
lightfully quiet. First she comes on and
gives the audience a cool song-drink with
something in it; then she mixes another
insidious one a trifle stronger; so by degrees
she gets the house going properly, till it
allows her to take its collective wrist and
pump in about a quart of ragtime with a
hypodermic syringe. When that lot gets in
its deadly work the patient smiles a sweet,
drugged smile and allows the chloroform
mask to be clapped on without a kick. Louis
Nikola (of the silhouette finger-portraits) is
the most noticeable member of the support-
ing co.
❖ * *
Shadow drama in Sydney this week: —-
Lyceum: Australian Enid Bennett in five reels of
Triangle “Happiness.”
Crystal Palace : A capital film version of “The
Argyle Case,” the old favorite mystery-murder drama.
Hoyt’s: Nance O’Neil as the severe iron-mistress
in Margaret Deland’s novel, “The Iron Woman” ; and
Dorothy Bernard in a gorgeous love-drama, “The
Rainbow.”
At Melbourne Majesty’s the audacity of
Dondidier in kissing the Baroness Young
upon the cheek continues to be an important
factor in the success of “The Pink Lady.
There are, however, more than one factor in
the factory, and one of these fine weeks two
or three other contributing causes will be
alluded to.
“The White Chrysanthemum” lias just six
more nights to run at Melbourne King’s.
The co. moves along after Thursday, the
28th, and “Peg o’ My Heart” returns, with
her rough dawg and her rude laugh, on the
following Saturday.
Allan Wilkie is returning to Melbourne
Princess’s on Saturday, but not with any
immediate designs on the “legitimate.” The
honorable apostle of Shakspeare has earned
many ducats in Sydney by playing “The
Story of the Rosary,” and he is going to
repeat the lucrative indiscretion in Mel-
bourne. When the melodrama was played at
the Royal a year or two ago, it seemed
eminently suited to popular prices. At the
Princess’s it will get what suits it, and be
displayed to the best advantage.
The experiment of producing “Sweet
Nell” in four weekly parts was very warmly
received at Melbourne Tivoli on Saturday.
Nellie Stewart was expected, on reports from
Sydney, to justify this new form of revival,
and the picturesque embodiment of perpet-
ual young womanhood sailed right up to the
expectation. As far as the star lady and the
setting of the scene were concerned the past
seemed the present. Blakiston was again
an effective Charles the Mormon; the attend-
ant bigwigs passed inspection; Nancye
Stewart was a painstaking Lady Olivia, and
Jeffreys had all the ferocity of his most
savage predecessors in an acute form. - The
least satisfactory titled person on the job
was Sir Roger Fairfax, a very mild young
lover who seemed rather overcome by his
weight of tailoring and haberdashery. Act 2
of the gay romance begins next Saturday.
Of the various turns that make the rest of
the bill Gwen Lewis, the Yateses and the
rough-and-tumble burlesque scored most
approval. Some of the others dragged,
flagged or sagged.
In “The Conquest of Canaan,” a Hoyt
(Melbourne) picture adapted by the camera
from Booth Tarkington’s story, Joe Louden,
the hero, decides to bash his way into the
affections of a hostile community; wherefore
much of the film might be mistaken for a
first-aid demonstration by the Red Cross
Society. There are, however, some peaceful
passages wherein the Big Fist is held in the
thrall of Edith Taliaferro’s fatal beauty.
Jean Sothern is graceful in the second Hoyt
item, “The Cloud,” which features self-sacri-
fice and other curiosities.
Pretty Enid Bennett is spread over five
acts of exertion in the luce film, “The Little
Brother,” at Melbourne Majestic this week.
Enid, masquerading sweetly in masculine
garments, pursues a familiar career of Hope,
Love and Conquest, which suggests that the
Ince bump of originality is little more than
a pimple, after all. William Desmond, whom
Australia saw in “The Lion and the Mouse,”
“The Silver King ” and other plays, looks
lovely enough to be everywoman’s Secret
Fancy in a new Ince-Sterling production,
“The Last of the Ingrams.” The Majestic
also stars a humorous item. “Villa of the
Movies,” which is guaranteed to make any
bishop feel frivolous.
s': *
The “Bunyip” panto, has ended at
Adelaide Majestic, where remain Phillips,
Rene, Daisy Merritt and other of its fun-
makers in a loosely-built “revue.” The
Anderson co., which always impresses one
as being too good for the kind of play it
stages, has for the moment a monopoly of
drama at the Tivoli; “Between Two
Women” is the thrill of the week. The
Dandies at the Queen’s are coming to the
end of their season. Winsloe Hall's new
orchestra gave a concert which was shock-
ingly ill patronised, Wondergraph has a
pleasant film of a hero and heroine hand-
cuffed together and shooting themselves
asunder, West’s screens an elaboration of
the fine old Jim Bludso ballad, and the
stupendous “Intolerance” at the Royal is in
its second week of a twice-a-day season.
Four more detectives have been appointed
by Chief Sec. McLeod to act as oil on the
wave of crime now rolling over Melbourne.
Their appointment would have been more
satisfactory if it were not that, as in the
case of every other d. at headquarters, the
latest additions originally entered the police
service on the strength of their size in boots
rather than on their intellectual brilliance.
They mounted the ladder to d.-ship, no
doubt, through strict attention to business;
but the fact remains that had their feet and
other parts below the neck not been up to
certain specifications, their brains would
have had no chance.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A graceful little souvenir of the late R. S.
Smytlie, issued b.v the family to sympathis-
ing friends, explains how he came to be
known as the “Much Travelled.” Some of
his Melbourne cronies gave him the title 40
years ago, and “it acquired a wider and per-
manent popularity by its use in an early
issue of The Bulletin, which lirst fixed it
in print.” Smythe’s much-travelling had
begun nearly 20 years earlier, and a lot of
it might fairly have been called adven-
turing. As a pioneer among impresarios
R.S.S. earned his title honestly enough. In
his old age he talked jokingly of passing it
on to son Carlyle, and calling himself “The
More Travelled.” But the name that pleased
the old journalist-showman best was con-
ferred on him by another journalist whom he
toured through Australia. Archibald Forbes
termed him “The Moltke of Managers.”
“0.K.”: The two authors of “Grumpy” are
best remembered in Australia for their act-
ing in Wilson Barrett’s first production of
“The Manxman.” Horace Hodges played the
little cad who came along on a bicycle, and
Wigney Percyval was the slim seducer of
the heroine. Their first attempt at play-
writing has brought them £20,000 thus far.
Belasco and Frohman turned it down after
Cyril Maude had refused it. Then the
authors worried him again, and this time he
saw the light. Wigney Percyval, by the
way, was not a member of the second co. that
Wilson Barrett brought to Australia (1901),
his place being taken by Basil Gill, who has
since made a bit of a reputation for himself.
Gill was a picturesque young man, and, basil
being the trade name for leather, needless to
say envious rivals christened him Leather
Gills.
“Monkbarns” : Cyril Maude is the greatest
comedian we have had since Jefferson. I
rate them about equal. Yet they are very
different. Jefferson, as Hazlitt wrote of
Bannister, put every character over himself,
like a surtout, warm and comfortable. Ex-
cept in Rip, he was always the same
delightful personage, like Charley Mathews.
Maude, on the other hand, is the real charac-
ter actor. He gets into the skin. Compare
his portrait with his make-up. and it is
rather difficult to see the real man struggling
through. This may be said of him in several
characters. For his Captain Barley, in
and the Barge,” so admirably copied
mp Bob Brough, Maude spent many days in
association with the actual sort of eccen-
tricity on a canal, and even borrowed his
catchword, “Too much haffability!” Thorn-
ton told me he found his Private Secretary
in a curate, between two ladies in a London
’bus, exclaiming, “Do you know? Oh,
fancay!” I think his curate was better than
either Tree’s or Penley’s.
A Cyril Maude yarn. When Tree appeared
as Hamlet, the Second Gravedigger was
played by an old pro. named Allen. The
show was witnessed by Irving, who went
behind at the close. Tree approached him
expectantly. “Well?” he inquired. “I
thought Allen was excellent —most excel-
lent,” Irving told him.
“S.” : William Somerset Maugham crowds
a surprising quantity of home truth into his
comedy, “Penelope.” It contains something
of Wilde’s painful reflection that it is the
faithfulness of women, not their unfaithful-
ness, that is tragic. Maugham’s hero is
driven to distraction by the overweening
fondness of his wedded wife. The distraction
he seeks is in the person of a very good-look-
ing young grass-widow, who, however, to his
greater horror, develops precisely the traits
of the excessively affectionate spouse of his
bosom. This drives O’Farrell back to his
apparently cooling wife, and the tragic-
comedians end where they began, with man
and wife restored to each other’s arms, beset
by a prospect of the linked sweetness being
long drawn out precisely as before. The
wife’s common-sensible old father, a mathe-
matician, offers his daughter much sage
advice, but does not give the one true solu-
tion of the O’Farrells' difficulty, nor does it
seem to have occurred to Maugham. The
real need of such households is just a little
one. The safety-valve is baby. The trouble
is not that Mrs. O’Farrell is too loving, but
that, after four or five years of married life,
O’Farrell is still called upon to endure the
love that is rightly the husband’s, as well as
the love that is rightfully the baby’s.
Naturally he suffers from the frequent over-
doses. Maugham’s saving grace in Act 111
should have been the midwife.
“Thersites”: When war broke out very
many elderly actors and actresses fled from
England to North America—old ladies and
gentlemen with more or less fame and abil-
ity. Now they can’t get home again, and in
consequence every theatrical circuit in the
States is using some London popular actor
who can’t knit socks and can barely act
from old age. I have just met John Drew, a
famous American actor who looks 80. The
old chap was very acidy that afternoon and
snorted when asked whether lie would follow
Cyril Maude down to Australia. “Pooh,”
said Drew, “Austi-alia ain’t nothing,” and he
spat on the hotel carpet. “Say, did y’ever
hear what Nat Goodwin said about Aus-
tralia?” “You mean the American Henry
the Eighth?” says I. “Yes,” says he. “You
know Nat was a failure down there and lost
his dallars. Somebody asked him what he
thought of Sydney. ‘Gee,’ replied Nat of
The Milk White Flag, ‘that ain’t no city,
That’s Troy, Noo Yark, on a wet Sunday.’ ”
The reply is caustic because Troy is a dirty,
dilapidated factory-town all slums and mud.
Cyril Maude, who wears his burden of years
well, has been playing grandpa parts in the
U.S.A. since the war opened, varied occa-
sionally by after-dinner speeches into which
he always wedges “My cousin, you know,
General Maude of Mesopotamia.” When
old Sir George Alexander and old Sir
Charles Wyndharn have toured Australia, it
will have seen all the London favorites of
the early-Victorian era.
“Silas”: To my mind Florence Young’s
La Comtesse in “The Pink Lady” is easily
the most satisfactory thing this performer
has accomplished for years. It is only lately
that Florence has learned to act. Her
attempts in frivolous youthful characters
had always a jarring element. Her vivacity,
coquetry, canoodling and airy badinage
were always stiff and artificial. In a part
like La Comtesse she swings into place. The
thing is done neatly but with force, and the
singer begins to look like an actress and
behave accordingly, while the voice remains
quite fine enough to guarantee her even
greater popularity in a line in which she is
temperamentally and physically much more
at home. Flo’s singing of “Dondidier” is
the best example of purely comic vocalisa-
tion we have had since the great old Gilbert
and Sullivan period. By the way, how
comes it that while the neat and nice but
wholly conventional waltz strain of “The
Pink Lady” has been drummed into every
head during the past few years, we never got
a hint of the exceptionally clever and
uniquely humorous “Dondidier”?
“B. J.”: Sylvia Willes, who was born in
Melbourne 20 years ago, has just died in
England. She was a daughter of Christo-
pher Lionel Willes and a grand-niece of Sir
George O’Mahoney Willes, and was 25Ain.
short and 19-Jlb. light. It was the last-
mentioned facts that helped her to make a
fortune in the show business as “Princess
Victoria.” She had a sweet soprano, and was
billed as “The Midget Melba.” Apart from
her weight and height, she was normal. A
few years back she made very big money by
singing, playing sundry more or less musical
instruments and selling her own picture-
postcards. Later she lost most of her for-
tune. “Through mismanagement,” her
mother said.
Rosin a Palmerston, whose bright musical
turn was lately on the Fuller circuit, is the
daughter of the late Christie Palmerston, who
explored a lot of the North Queensland coun-
try and gave his name to the Palmerston
Falls, above Cairns.
Stella Power, the “little Melba” of the
Melbourne advts., inherited a fine voice from
her late mother. Mrs. Power never sang
professionally, but her sister, Josephine-
O’Brien, was a well-known figure on the-
Melbourne concert platform a few years ago.
“Pollard”: “J.F.H.” (B. 10/5/’l7) is
wrong about Daphne Pollard. She is an.
Australian, but not a member of the theatri-
cal family. She went to America with one
of the many Pollard Lilliputian cos., in which
the practice was to give some of the leads
the family handle. Daphne caught the
N’Yarkers in 1915 with her diminutive
cuteness while with the Follies, after a rather
quiet spell in vaudeville. A Maoriland con-
tingent in Blighty got the tip that she was
the daughter of Tom. and the. London
Hippodrome became a Mecca for the boys
until the error was righted. And then they
went because she was Daphne.
(Continued on page 26.)
CALLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first I heard her coo-ee wing
Down from the g'reen hillside,
The lilting magpie in the spring,
Who set my early morn a-ring,
Seemed dull and lacking pride.
“Coo-ee! Coo-ee!”
A siren call it was to me—
“Coo-ee!”
At scented dawn when by the creek
The bird-choir voices vie
From wattled slope and gilded peak,
I only heard the angels speak
In Milly’s matin cry.
“Coop-coop ! Coop-coop ! ”
As homeward strung the milking troop—
“Coop-coop 1”
And now when roars the eager tram,
And clangs the hated bell,
I. drowse serenely where I am,
And do not give a single yam
For Milly’s strident yell:
“C’up-c’up! C’up-c’up!
It's seven, you lazy hound, get up !
C’up-e’up!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


LADIES! Tom Complexion is Part of Your Attire.
. V jST¥I,ISH ATTIRE FARES SHORT OF ITS EFFECT
1 aek! r.i jf your skin is not in harmony.
. „ „ 'Aie RE COMELV by attention to those little details,
EVERY WOMA® C can afford to de spise.
s
Mrange
w
inter’s
TOILET
WILL HELP YOU,
J>k REPARATIONS
V have proved the greatest friend to womankind,
ter (3 tints). New Face Cream (2 colors),
>mi Cream and Lotion, Soap, Hair Foods (Oily
»n-Oily), Carmine, Dry Shampoo, and Dental
The.
Pow
Lakst,
and fi
Cream.
Ask for
Sotil’s, k
derns’, W,
and f op sample of Soap or Powder (name
r^ n or Dental Cream, to John Strange Winter
the ■ j» ar i s, Borne). Sydney Office: 32 Depot,
Street. Melbourne Office: 331 Collins
them at The Civil Service, Washington H.
>«setter’s, MeCathie’s, David Jones’, Hor-
T. Waters’, Farmer & Co.’s, McDowell
etc.
(London.
Street ,a "vlUdalde Dffice: Steamship Buildings, Currie
Street, . _____________________
Zl,
MAROIiiK F
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
VERY SUITABLE.
LITTLE DARLING : “You should be at the
Front, Mr. Bore.”
[?]BORE : “Why, my dear?”
M[?] TTLE DARLING : “Well, Dad says they want
men with plenty of nerve, and I heard
Ethel say you had it!”
<.j» 0 urn” ; Once more an invited party of
Billiims after being shown over the
, ' ' • V hall, even unto the dining-room, have
been fare, velled by tbe llostess and tben
into tlie servants’ quarters to have tea
win, win Hrn. This time the Red Cross
vith baiah . started to make a fuss about
't worry,” said one grinning
Cornstalk; “we guessed the old lady eats
with her knife, or something like that, and
the girls don’t like her to have company.
* * *
Another freak for the records of. surgerj.
Some months ago at Orange East (N.SAN .)
a man had his leg amputated. Last week a
child was born to his wife—a fine youngster,
but it had only one leg!
“Daru”: The law of Papua does not
allow of divorce being obtained, when
one of the parties to the marriage is
a full-blooded Papuan aboriginal. The
marriage law allows a fool white man
to tie himself to the brown woman, but the
divorce ordinance prevents any relief to
either party to these mixed and always
unfortunate wed-
dings. Evidently
the framers of the
law had the idea
that by preventing
divorce from* the
Papuan partner of
the marriage the
wedding of white
and brown would
also be prevented.
But this is turning
the thing wrong
way up. The right
way to prevent
marriage is to pre-
vent marriage, not
to stand in the way
of divorce. “Com-
bos” are not very
numerous in Pa-
pua, but one or two
gentlemen of my
acquaintance who
in their salad days
took unto them-
selves discolored
wives are now in
their sensible years
doomed to be tied
for life to women
that they long ago
lost any respect or
affection for. The
wowser would say
it is a very fitting
punishment; but a
sensible man who
sees a young fellow just past his majority
tied to an immoral black female cannot but
grieve that there is no chance of relief.
• * • *
“Pajaud": The orderly-sergeant with two
defaulters awaited the arrival of the C.O.
lie appeared shortly and “’Shun!" yelled
the orderly-sergeant. The C.O. gravely-
saluted and ducked inside. “S’n’at-ease/”
snarled the orderly-sergeant. In the orderly
room the C.O. found the sergeant-major.
“Good-morning. Sawn-Majaw, any cases this
morning?” “Yes, sir, two this morning,
sir,” and he handed over the yellow forms
setting out the offences. The Major glanced
at the top one. “Ah, Redwood again! March
him in, Sawn-Majaw.” The S.M., like many
another good soldier, made a bloomer, and
marched in the wrong man, and the C.O.
failed to notice the mistake. He read out
the charge—“ No. 1547, Pte. J. B. Redwood.
You are charged with (1) absent without
leave, (2) drunk, and (3) bringing liquor
into camp. How do you plead?” The aston-
ished defaulter cleared his throat and gasped
out, “I ain’t got nothin’ ter say t’ that
charge. I ain’t” “That’ll do,” jerked
out the C.O. “You got nothing to say.
Absent! Drunk ! Bringing liquor into camp !
I’ll make an example of you. How dare you
bring liquor into camp? Don’t you know
that no one, no matter what his rank, is
allowed to bring liquor into camp?” The
prisoner here jambed his word in. “I ain’t
Redwood,” he said. “Redwood’s the cove out-
side, sir. I’m the other bloke, wot pinched
the bottle o’ whisky outer your tent last
night!’
* * * ■*
“Chevron” :
Unto the last, whate’er that last may be—
Or day, or night;
Silence, or psalm ; defeat, or victory—
Endure and fight.
Put it in bronze for the epitaph of Lieut.
Charles Pope, a Westralian of the
Battalion, who in. obedience to orders ex-
changed his life for the Victoria Cross and
added one more ray of glory to Lagnicourt.
He and his men held a picket which they
were told to keep at all costs. On April 15
the Germans developed the tremendous at-
tack which, until General Robert Smith, of
the Fifth Australian Division, organised a
dashing counter-attack and shot the Huns
to pieces, threatened disaster indeed. Pope
and his men, cut off before the tide turned,
fired volley after vollev into the rolling waves
of grey’. But soon they were in great need
of ammunition, and it was impossible to
get it through the hordes of Germans. There
was only one thing to do, and Pope did it,
making immortal in France, as another offi-
cer of the same name made immortal in Gal-
lipoli. the name of Pope’s Post. Our
troops were a mile away—too far to aid, but
not too far to see. Battalion after battalion
of the enemy debouched upon Pope at his
post in the valley of death. Still his few
rifles spoke defiance; and while men watched
an hour went by. Half an hour more.
Then silence. What now? Our eyes were
answered by the twinkling glory of bayo-
nets. Springing to their feet and charging
down hill, on came what was left of the
piequet. Light flashed on their bayonets,
flashed again, and flashed no more. The
ocean of field-grey swallowed the little cata-
ract of khaki. When vengeance had been
made complete, the bodies of Pope and five
of his men were found together. Others
were picked up where thev had fallen, and
about that scattered ring were numbered SO
German dead.
PROFESSIONAL SUBLIMITY.
PATIENT: “Am I a very had case, doctor?"
DOCTOR: “Bad? Why, sir, you're beautiful,
beautiful! The diagnosis points to
appendicitis, visceroptosis, duodenal dis-
placement, and possibly complications!”
Parson George Tait, who has tended the
Scotchbyterian flock at South Yarra (Vic.)
for many years, distinguished himself at the
recent General Assembly by talking com-
monsense about derrink. Before the Assem-
bly cussedly adopted a “deliverance” favor-
ing national prohibition, Tait protested
earnestly that prohibition was to be con-
demned as a “short cut” to a moral end.
and one which “pro-
duced greater evils
than those they were
attempting to cure.”
Tait is a scholarly per-
son, recognised among
the brethren as having
one of the keenest
minds in the church—
a reverend battler who
is prepared to shed the
last drop of ink in de-
fence of his conclu-
sions. But he stood
almost alone in mak-
ing his protest, the
seconder of the lost
amendment to the “de-
liverance” being a lay
brother. Now, with
renewed vigor and—ah
—s tre ngthened pur-
pose, the church mili-
tant will continue try-
ing to swat the fly on
its nose, while as the
blow falls the little
critter hops leisurely
across to the nearest
eyebrow.
“A.E.L.” describes an air-fight:—
A little before dusk I counted 12 of our battle
’planes go over in a bunch. From the aerodrome
on the hill opposite, the guiding flares glowed till
well after eight o’clock—pitch dark then —and at
intervals searchlights swept the heavens for the
latecomers. One, I knew, they searched for in
vain. He would never return. While those pencils
of dazzling light were trying to “pick him up,” he
lay . splashed on the brown of a muddy field.
This machine had left the bunch and, encountering ,
a German, a fight ensued. The splutter of a machine-
gun drew our eyes in the direction. There they
were, circling round each other, diving, banking,
swooping, the drone of their engines broken by spas-
modic bursts of machine-gun fire.
The two machines were of different types. W e
knew our machine. We knew the Fritz. Presently
our fellow dived steeply, and we confidently waited
for him to swoop up and catch his opponent napping.
But no! Down, down he came, until it dawned on
us that he might have been hit—tnat the fight had
resulted in a victory for the German !
While yet many thousand feet up he began a series
of magnificent spirals, coming lower and lower with
each one, until at a hundred feet from the ground
he “flattened out” for his landing. The airman had
shut off his engine, but the propeller still revolved,
though with a soft purring sound, so different from
the roar and throb of the engine in full blhst. It
was only a matter of seconds now when he’d be
racing lightly along the ground, close to us —and
we’d go over and see what was wrong. Lower,
lower, 50 feet up now, 40—but didn’t he look splen-
did! Yet ugly. Nobody would think of calling that
snub-nose thing anything but ugly, in that nose sat
the observer, with his handy little Lewis gun stick-
ing out in front. Only his head could be seen.
Behind him sat the pilot, and behind him again was
the engine, with the propeller revolving in the rear
of the main wing-span. Only 30 feet to go now.
You’re home and dried, old man. Twenty-five feet,
20—ah !
It happened in a moment. 1 saw it, yet did not
see it, it was all over so quickly. 1 looked at it
stupidly, bewildered, sickened. What a moment
before had been a living thing now lay with the
life smashed out of it, a confusion of torn fabric and
twisted wire and splintered wood, with its tail
sticking in the air and quivering with the violence
of the impact. For, from that little height, no
more than 20 feet, the machine had crashed nose-
first into the field.
It was some seconds before 1 could gather my
wits. The rest of us must have been in the same
state. Then we all suddenly made for the wreck,
arriving to see the observer crawl from underneath
his shattered cab. He was wounded in the head.
The pilot; was dead. 11c lay underneath the engine,
smashed to a pulp.
The observer told us the story. The German had
swooped down on them, and had wounded him early
in the fight. Finding himself hit shortly afterwards,
the pilot brought his machine down to within 20 feet
of the ground, under splendid control. Then he lost
consciousness, and so “went West.”
# * # *
“Willie over the Water”: In close touch
with soldiering right tip to the hot edge of
the fighting line for a year now, I am further
from a definition of courage than ever. In
fact, the more I hear and see of brave men
the harder I find it to say what bravery is.
One finds men whom no one would suspect
of possessing any temperamental force doing
the most audacious things when up against
the enemy. One thing only is certain —
bravery and fear go together, even bravery
and terror. In a Red Cross tent back
here the other day, a nurse heard one
wounded Maorilander earnestly colloguing
with another who had done a splendid thing.
“What didja do it for? There was no sense
in it. It done no good. You did it, Ned,
jest to let everybody see how brave you
was.” “No.” Ned replied, quietly, “so that
nobody would guess how frightened I was.”
A FAMILY AFFAIR
BROCGS : “Know the Indy?”
SPROGGS : “Looks familiar, somehow. Wife's
dress, daughter's hat, mother-in-law’s
hag—I suppose it's the new cook.”
FOR THE SINGING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“War, from its very nature, could never produce
great poetry.” —American magazine.
Will the world sing again,
Like the birds after rain,
When the blood-storm is over?
Will the mirth of good-heart
From the years’ meadows start
As the lark from the clover?
Long the grey shadow grew
Over ways that we knew.
At the feast and love-making
The chill of a fear
Clipped the word in the ear
And the kiss in the taking.
Life ran like a stream
Through grey meadows of dream
To a hollow place under —•
Gliding on, gliding on,
From chill dusk to red dawn,
Towards the cataracts’ thunder.
No place for a song
Had the years hushed and long
With the death hammers falling,
When steel to grey steel,
With its keen-edged appeal,
Made clamorous calling.
Will the sun shine out clear
In the prime of the year
When the death-smoke is rifted ?
With pure heart of clear sight
Shall the bridal veils white
From the future be lifted?
Little graves far and cold
To the night winds have told
Of strange sleeping and waking—
O Dead that are ours,
There are garlands of flowers
And songs for the making!
In the dark ye dream well.
But the long glories swell
Where the star-lamps are swinging.
Lo, ye died for world-song,
And the Man-heart grows strong
To the ultimate singing!
x.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


gdsf
Black
18'6 pair.
WE PA* POSTAGE
- Next time you need
Riding Boots try
“Wallaby”
Emperors." 1
They are soft and light,
Strong and durable. Made
in Queensland from genuine
Wallaby hides, and fitted with
comfortable elastic sides that
will not perish or stretch
after a few weeks wear.
Send for a pair on approval.
PIKE BROTHERS,
TOOWOOMBA. BRISBANE.
LIMITED
TOWNSVILLE.
IF CONSTIPATED .TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup of Bigs—“Califig”— to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up waste will
gently move out of the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as effective for grandpa as it is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers can rest easy after giving
it because it never fails to effect a good
"inside cleansing.”
For 30 years California Syrup of Figs—•
"Califig”—has been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles
of two sizes. Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [5
“0. Klin”: The reappearance of W. E.
Johnson on the Speaker’s perch in the Reps,
sent the House staff scurrying for the appur-
tenances of his office. The mace, sentenced
to three years’ imprisonment by the pre-
vious work-a-day Speaker, was released from
its dungeon amid the loud cheers of Bruce
Smith, while the old wig and gown were
relieved of their mothballs and restored to
their former official positions. Johnson is
a great stickler for Parliamentary etiquette
and is not unmindful of the, so to speak,
perks of his billet. Presumably he will
return to roost in the suite of apartments
kindly nrovided at Parliament House, and
refurnished a while back at disgusting ex-
pense—as a means, of course, of winning the
war. Clapin, Johnson’s new bodyguard on
impressive occasions, is probably the short-
est sergeant-at-arms on record. If brevity
is the soul of wit, he would make an ideal
editor for Ally Sloper. When I saw the
little fellow burdened with the mace at the
opening of Parliament the other day, I felt
like lodging a protest with the S.P.C.C.
From the archives of a labor-agency :
dear, sir, I am sending back the man to do the
bookkiping and clinking you sent me. he waists two
much time and is now good I met him at the station
with the sulkie and we started out to the homestead
about five miles out he ses do you keep any books
sir I said yes I have some nat Goulds the double
event I reckon is bonza he ses no sir I mean books
leger cash book jurnil ect. O 1 ses books to do
bookkiping with yes sir he ses. well I turned the
mares - head round and went back to the store and
got the books to do bookkiping with and started out
again. When about 3 mile out he sed o we forgot
the pretty cash book O I ses another book he sed
never mind we will do without that, well sir we
arrived and as it was dark he washed himself and
had tea. I called him in the morning just getting
light he ses o this is too early to start work O i ses
are you in the union to he ses now drawing himself up
I dont belong to union. He got up washed himself
again, he had a good breakfus same as us and
started work he ses 1 will take charge of your check
book and write them out and you sine them 1 ses o
no I wont give you the check book very well ses he
you have no conference in me well he started and
wrote the books out detter this and cretter that, he
ses we must open planting count, stocking count,
ect. 1 ses you go ahead mister clurk. he ses give me
your check book now so 1 can see the buts i ses no
go sonny you wont get the check book, he worked
fairly well until dinner when he washed himself
again. I ses you waist two much time which costs
munny, he ses o alright yours truly, -■
p.s. will you send me back the five shillings I paid
you for this clurk could you make usse of the books
i bought for the clurk.
East year the State school at Seymour
(Vic.) was flooded out and left damp and
smelly when the Goulburn River went down.
At the time a request was made for Minis-
terial attention to the unsuitable site of
the school, but nothing happened. With the
recent heavy rains the Goulburn again over-
THE CASE OF MANY.
SHE: “You rowed it would he your aim to
make my life one long dream of happi-
ness. And to think that I believed you!”
HE: “ That’s nothing. I believed it myself
at the time.”
flowed into the building, whereupon the
school committee hurriedly got into its
waders and held an emergency meeting, with
the result that Education Minister Lawson
presently received an urgent wire:
School under water for second time in eight
months. Come and personally inspect, with view to
removal; boat awaiting your arrival.
It has often been alleged that some of the
officials in the Vie. Education Department
“came out of the ark.” The Seymour experi-
ence suggests that this is a libel on Noah,
who at any rate knew how to come in out
of the rain and take his children with him.
“Trallwm”: It was a cynical brute who
said it, of course. The occasion was an At
Home in one of the would-be suburbs. The
guests were sitting round stiffly on the. edges
of their chairs, four at each “occasional
table; their attention divided between choos-
ing the spoken word that would not give
them away and watching for the other
cat” to make a slip; all pretending hard to
be something they were not and aching to
let out a homely “ain’t” or to relieve their
THE MAN WITH THE OWE.
SMITHEREEN : “What’s the matter? Been at the Front?”
SMITH: “No; just the weight of the income-tax paper in my pocket.”
feelings with “Oh, blow it!” The brute
whispered me the story of the ex-soldier
waiter to whom the wag said “Attention !”
“What a of a mess there’d be here,”
lie said, “if somebody rang the housemaid’s
bell!”
* * * *
“Copy Boy”: In their encounters with
law-breakers, Victorian John Hops are
mostly at a disadvantage, because they lack
the up-to-date appliances with which their
opponents are careful to provide themselves.
When a policeman, full of dark suspicions,
entered the Hawksburn branch of the State
Savings Bank the other night, not being
provided with a lamp or torch he had to
strike matches to find his way about. Two
matches had burned out and he was fum-
bling for a third when he was knocked
unconscious with a jemmy, and three men
who had had designs on the bank-safe
escaped. When policemen surprised
a gang of safe-breakers at Mel-
bourne Trades Hall a year or two
back they had to find their way
about the dark building by striking
matches, thus providing excellent
targets for the gang, firing from
the darkness. One constable was
killed, and it then occurred to the
Department that it would be advis-
able to purchase a few electric
torches. Twelve (12) —one (1)
dozen—were bought and are safely
housed at the Russell-street head-
quarters. Presumably the duty of
any constable about to enter a building in
which he suspects thieves are at work is to
sign a requisition for the use of one of these
and despatch it by special messenger to head-
quarters.
The big Eider Hall, at Adelaide Uni. Con-
servatorium, built for music and singing,
gives good results for both, but is a shock-
ing place to speak in, the reverberations be-
ing deadly. Various experiments with wires
and muffled hangings have been tried —it
had become really a matter of some conse-
quence now that all the biggest T niversity
functions have to be held there. But noth-
ing did much good until last week Professor
Kerr Grant was given a free hand for a
special occasion. He simply carpeted the
platform and the floor with layers of wheat-
sacks. and the result was excellent. It took
five tons of them to do the trick, though.
From an Australian surgeon in London:
We are put “on our honor” not to eat more than
so much flour, meat, sugar, etc. ; but honor seems to
be almost as scarce as potatoes. We went with a
friend a few nights ago to a well-known rendezvous
in Soho. We did not order a special dinner, nor did
we take the most expensive one submitted.
Well, we had first-class soup, a huge salmon
steak (a meal in itself), a most liberal
mixed grill (cutlet, kidney, sausage, bacon, tomato
and mushrooms), vegetables, bread and butter, pine-
apple, with coffee to finish off. We could not eat
our supply, neither could my friend, a big strapping
Billjim, over on leave and so not previously over-
fed. All around us in that crowded restaurant people
were doing themselves in the same or a much more
generous fashion. And so all day and every day, in
dozens of these places, the wants of the food hogs are
supplied ; and authority appears to take no notice of
it all. But you find the “middle-class” and “lower
middle-class” people taking very serious notice of it;
and I am convinced of this —that, quite unconsciously,
the idle or self-indulgent rich are making a whip of
scorpions for their backs. If they will not make
voluntary sacrifices to-day, they are going to be com-
pulsorily sacrificed to-morrow.
* * * *
The Defence Department says there is no
truth whatever in this correspondent’s state-
ment :
I hear that our officers in Egypt are permitted
by the authorities to keep small harems; that is,
they are allotted two wives each, these wives being
chosen for them. My informant is the wife of an
officer with the Australian Imperial Force in Egypt,
and one would hardly disbelieve her word. But can
you find out whether there is any truth in the state-
ment, and, if so, whether our officers are availing
themselves of the privilege? Others who have heard
this statement would like to know definitely. It
worries me greatly.
But if it were true —officially so, that is—
ivhat a boom there would be in recruiting!
* * * *'
“Cherokee”: The N. S. Wales Govern-
ment’s bright idea of income-taxing the N. S.
Wales wheat cocky, not on what he has but on
what peradventure he may get from the
Wheat Pool, reminds me - of what has hap-
pened to a man in Gippsland. He was a
Fremantle wharfie, and won £4OOO in
Tatt.’s. Incited thereto by many voices
murmuring of Thrift, he rejected the spaci-
ous notion of drinking his way through
£4OOO worth of beer, and bought a farm.
All was well, and he was patting himself
on the back for being virtuous, when sud-
denly the Income Tax Department hit him
up for £9OO tax, and over £lOO fine for fail-
ure to disclose the amount of his lucky
year’s income.
The everlasting Snow case got a step fur-
ther while the High Court sat in Adelaide;
or rather, it took a step backward, and the
end looks further off than that of the war
which started it. Put in words as plain as
are possible in a tangled matter, the High
Court said that the Full Court of S. Aus.
was wrong in saying that its own Chief
Justice was wrong in a decision he had
given about certain documents used by Snow
in his metal-trading business, which docu-
ments might—or, again, might not —go to
show that he was trading, or trying to trade,
with the enemy. Sitting on himself in the
Full Court, the C.J. seemed to consider that
his own former decision was dubious. It is
now referred back to him for a kind of
third-thought. The whole case is the near-
est approach to a gold-mine that Adelaide
Iv.C.’s have encountered professionally for
years. On the “Crown” side there appears
to be rancorous feeling on the part of some-
body in a high place ; on the other side—
Snow r ’s side—there is money, backed by
Josiah Symon, who has used some remark-
ably straight talk at times.
MORE TO LEARN.
THE KID: “I wish I went to school when
you did, A untie.”
AUNTIE : “Why, love?”
THE KID: “’Cause, look what a lot more
history the war’s made.”
The Age critic slates the work of local
amateurs: —■
Another instance of purposeless losses resulting*
from the evident inexperience of the shopbreakers
who have been operating in the city and suburbs
during the last few months was revealed at Carnegie
yesterday. The thieves use explosives in the most
reckless and extravagant manner. This involves
danger to themselves and risk of discovery owing' to
the great noise caused by the use of unnecessary
explosives. These facts indicate that the men are
novices at the game.
What are the business colleges doing? You
can’t even get a decent correspondence course
on the subject.
MESSINES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The biggest thing ever attempted in mining opera-
tions rent the air with air-splitting crashes.” — Cable.
Now fades the tinpot tinkle of the guns,
The lisping howitzers seem faint and small.
Like the weak thud of currants dropped from buns
Are bombs that from the soaring biplane fall.
Like rustling leaves a million rifles sigh
When the long breeze of battle pushes by.
Dig and dig deep! A railway tunnel gores
A hollow in the death-encrusted hill.
Throug'h the black mouth a patient vengeance pours
Explosive fury, fettered, curbed and still.
Above, a battle rages day and night;
Below are reefs and seams of dynamite.
Now give them warning. Pour the red bolts in!
Scourge their defences hotly night and day !
Assure them the attack will soon begin
And bid them call reserves to face the fray!
These guns are like a clamorous dinner-bell
That calls the foemen to the feast of Hell.
Behind those broken walls and ruined trees
They wait in thousands for the coming clash.
No fire can shift them from such hills as these —
They grin to watch the waste of steel and cash !...
Ready! Switch on the ruin deeply laid....
Beneath the hill our strategy is laid.
There is a noise. The world goes deaf and blind.
Something is lifting. All the sky is red.
The hill? There is no hill that eye can find.
But one vast dust-cloud rolling- overhead,
Loaded with guns and armies and wild flame,
Shrieks to the sky the terror of our name.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


In one of the recent Melbourne*
burglaries the criminals
only secured 30/- worth
of coppers.
"The Bulletin doesn't" knoui Wou) many coders
go "1° ttie bJT on npcenT Jaerj-ormances One
should be able
L to get” the ulholc
-[•once /j'Oi'*
egWtecripencc
Moving pictures are held to be a contributing
cause of the recent crime wave.
fercioa-l : *Oia) did /oo e*"®? -
Basil f bitterly) •" Dunno^
sornet(iiri\< wiertT*
Accordin'
15 4+fe
pitches
I should
'a named
a beauHLul
defecfiv/e "
CRIME WAVE,
burglaries in the suburbs.
Burglary is the hardest
crime to detect. The burglar
generally works alone and at dead of night.
—Superintendent Davidson*
In •fliese days /ql
oj, Unionism jI
and
Sorely some //
//
baas can //
be d:'scoy fered
Yo 4ie ll’&d'Janfagz
c '< e <
* patriotism " .
f\ tVlelboonie Skefclr during inrt+T wees.
SIKES, JOHN HOP AND A BIRD OF PREY.


FOR THE ARMAGEDDON MELTING-POT.
DEMOCRITUS THE BARROWMAN: “Any old crowns, to-day—any old crowns?”


ZANETIC Penduplicating' Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer-
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester.
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use.
SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE. NURSE FRANCES, V.A.D., writes of Clements Tonic.
The proprietors of one of the leading weekly newspapers, Wellington, N.Z., whose letter can be seen if necessary, writes:
“ Nurse Frances has just returned from the firing-line in France and used your Clements Tonic there. I’m sure her
testimony is of very great public value.” Nurse Frances herself writes; “1 should like to tell you how very
pleased (am with your Tonic as a nerve restorer. 1 have used it with very beneficial results. Several of cur
nurses in France have also proved its worth. 1 can highly recommend it to any one suffering from brain-fag.”
( Signed )
Get Clements Tonic and get good health at the same time. It is invaluable for Anaemia, Nerve Breakdown and Loss of Sleep.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere. It does good because it is good.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRING
George Patterson, of Melbourne, who died
last week, aged 80, was a cheery pioneer of
’•"»!. With his brother J.B. (afterwards
Premier of Victoria and K.C.M.G.) he
stepped oil the vessel after a 10-months’
voyage and tried his luck on the diggings;
out typhus drove him back to Melbourne.
Emerging from hospital with empty pockets
the youngster got a temporary job to look
after a, cab for an hour or two while the
driver went to lunch, with a hint to “talk
money” if a fare happened along. A digger
and two Flossies flung him a tenner and
demanded a drive to St. Ivilda, where there
was then one pub- He charged them another
fiver for the return trip, and then retired
from the business to pursue the dollar at
horse and cattle dealing and' mail-coach run-
ning. From the late ’GO’S he and .T.B. carried
on a Collins-street real-estate business in a
big way, being followed by two sons, one of
whom. T.A., married Melba’s sister. Another
son, that good soldier Colonel George Patter-
son, was Q.M.G. of the A.I.F. at the Gal-
lipoli landing, and died last year; while Cap-
tain Charles Patterson, of the Lancashire
Fusiliers, died of injuries at the end of 1914.
Ambrose McCarthy Patterson, another son.
lives at Honolulu, where he paints pictures.
E. H. SUGDEN, M.A., of Queen’s,
Melbourne, and one time musical critic.
Norman Marshall, who got into the ring
as sergeant-major, is now a lieut.-colonel,
and" one Melbourne man is not at all sur-
prised. That is “Jack” Davidson, editor of
Melbourne Herald, who boxed with him in
Fred Porter’s gymnasium, and was in his
corner when he won the middleweight
amateur championship of Victoria five years
ago. Norman, who is 31, and a son of the
Rev. Alexander Marshall, of Scots’ Church,
was originally No. 9G2 in ”F“ (Public
Schools) Company of the sth (Victorian)
Battalion. He won the Military Cross in
Gallipoli, where he brought into play his
accumulated experience as boxer, oarsman,
footballer and paper-mills manager.
One of Australia’s best-advertised mayors
had a long wait before his brethren in the
council would permit him to put on the frills
of office. Some
years before his
election, motlier-
in. law passed
away, leaving
her dear (say)
John William a
legacy of £2OO,
for use when he
should at length
become It—and
it was a long,
wearv wait be-
fore ' the £2OO
had a chance of
an airing. By
that time, how-
ever, £2OO looked
like nothing
special to the
patient candi-
date. who had
kept kneading
away to such
good purpose
that nowadays
a. couple of
brali- b a g s
wouldn’t hold
the accumulated
dough.
PERCY
BROOKFIELD,
of Broken Hill.
Adelaide has discovered a brilliant young
short-story teller. lie turned up on the
wharves at Port Adelaide, a pathetic little
figure, aged 124, child of French parents,
both killed in the war, stowaway on a sail-
ing-ship from France, and turned adrift on
reaching Australia. The story went well on
the wharf. It would go well on the
“movies.” But, being very young, he had not
calculated on such close cross-examination.
Then it all came out: he was just the un-
controllable kid of a respectable local father
at suburban Kent Town, who reported that
this was his third time of running away
since Christmas, and he had better be put
in a Home and whipped. The P.M. at the
Port cut out the whipping, but prescribed
the Home till the budding novelist is 18. And
the dozens of kind p’eople who had written
in with offers of practical sympathy for the
little “refugee” suddenly lost all interest.
W. 11. Lambert, the new president of the
P.L.L. of N. S. Wales, has been sec. of the
Central Branch of the A.W.U. for the past
three years. He succeeded “Ike” Smith,
who fell foul of the executive, and he has
made good. Lambert has spent most of his 35
years Outback, and knows the wants of the
country toiler better than most men. With
Arthur Blakely, late sec. of the Western
Branch of the A.W.U., who recently won
the Darling seat in the House of Rep's.,
he represents the "new thought” in
A.W.U. councils in N. S. Wales, and is
an ardent advocate of the “one big union”
idea, lie is not a talker, but does a heap of
thinking.
Joseph Cooper, who ceased to be the old-
est inhabitant of Sorell (Tas.) the other
day, was the last man in the Commonwealth
to wear the real old English smock-frock.
He reached the Speck 70 years ago, and for
a long time was the butcher for the Port
Arthur penal settlement, being stationed at
King George’s Sound (not the W.A. one)
to kill the cattle brought from Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.). He lived 93 years.
Fred Delmer, the exchanged prisoner from
Germany who has thrown some new light
on Berlin, married a Melbourne girl, and it
was from Melbourne that he, went to Ger-
many. Prof. Marshall Hall was probably
the cause of his going. That rampageous
man. with his eternal talk of Wagner and
Nietzsche and the mythical gods they adored,
almost convinced Delmer that nothing in
art, morals or political thought was of much
account unless it had been made in Germany
or Scandinavia. Ibsen was at that time the
one non-German prophet -whom Marshall,
Hall glorified, and he induced Delmer to take
the. Norwegian for the subject of a profes-
sorial address in Melbourne not long before
his departure for Gott’s own country. The
war was an eye-opener to Fred Delmer, Pro-
fessor of English at Berlin University, and
his education was complete by the time he
was released. To a London interviewer he
said : “My heart bounded at the first sight
of the British flag. To realise the meaning
of light one must live, in darkness where the
Union Jack dare not wave.”
By the last English mail, Frank Stapley.
of the Melbourne City Council, received a
photograph of his nephew, Lieut. R. T. l.
Moon, showing a plaintively-boyish profile.
Next morning Stapley opened the paper to
find that the lad had won the Victoria Cross
for a gallant piece of work in which four
successive wounds could not stop him guard-
ing a vital flank. The boy’s father is Arthur
Moon, a National Bank inspector, and the
lad—then 20—left “a bank at Maffra on
August 21, 1914, to close Fritz’s account.
Captain Jim Newlands, one of the two
Victorians in the latest batch of V.C.’s, is
a Camperdown boy. Joining the Garrison
Artillery at Queenscliff as a youngster, he
left it*as a non-com. to enter the postal ser-
vice, later becoming a police constable in
Tasmania, lie and a sergeant brother went
unscathed through the S’African war, gain-
ing trade experience which secured for Jim
the stripes of a staff sergeant-major in the
AM.F. and an “area” in Tasmania. When
the time came to resume business he joined
the 12th Battalion, got his first star in May,
1915. and pulled down the Cross by saving
his company though thrice attacked in left
and rear with bombs, shells and rifle-fire.
He is 33. and his wife was Miss Mitchell, a
Launceston girl.
The first two King’s Medals to come to ■
N. S. Wales firemen were pinned to the
tunics of Third-officer Sydney Watson and
Fourth-officer John Francis Ford last week.
Watson has hosed every big fire in Sydney
for 31 years, and Ford, who has been “men-
tioned” for conspicuous bravery twice, has
been jumping on engines for 30 years.
Private Jurgen Christian Jensen is olie of
the latest V.C.’s. Prompted by the Viking
strain which afterwards led him to spring
on to the parapet and wave his helmet to
stop a too-eager gang of Billjims from firing
on 45 Huns whom he had bluffed into sur-
rendering, he sought adventure oil the seas
as a youngster. He sailed from Denmark
for Melbourne, where he was naturalised
on September 17, 1914, drifted to South
Aus., and was working on Murray steamers
when it struck him that Fritz had never
apologised for his theft of Schleswig-Hol-
stein. .Therefore he tramped out of Adelaide
one day, leaving all his world behind him in
a seaman’s ditty box. It awaits his return
in an Adelaide pub. He is just 25.
Two of Adelaide’s wonderfully-active
veterans died on the same day last Week.
John Gillingham. 88, Methodist minister,
hurried home after a meeting and overtaxed
his heart. Benjamin Brookman, 90, was a
printer of old standing, but was best known
of late years as father of his son George,
one of Adelaide’s experts in finance.
WHAT STRUCK HER MOST.
THE BAD MAN: “Do you know, we must
have met before — doesn’t my face seem
familiar ?”
THE TIRED GIRL : “Oh, not your face so
much as your behavior.”
Arthur S. Payne, who died at Lambton
(N.S.W.) the other day, had run a butcher-
ing business in that town for 47 years, but
was better known as a “lay doctor.” A
natural gift for diagnosis, aided by some
knowledge of drugs, led him to make some
allegedly “marvellous” cures, and for many
years past hundreds of patients from all
over the Ma State had sought his advice.
One of his sons is Ernest Payne, who gave
up the pursuit of Costs in Newcastle a few
years ago to become Registrar of N.S.W.
Arbitration Court.
DUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the ’ome away to Southward, more 'than ’alt a
life be’ind
(So it seems to me, 'oo ponders ’ere the lot of
’uman-kind),
When we done our “snowball-nun chin’ ” pick ’em
up an’ keep along—
On the. road that runs to Sydney tip from windy
Wollongong,
We was goin’ “fours in column,” an’ the dressin'
that we made
Was the dressin’ of the species that is known as
“marmalade.”
We was seven when we started, but the roads an’
’ostelries
Brought our tally to two ’undretl, droppin’ in by
twos an’ threes ;
An’ some was sick of shovin’ skips, an’ some ’ad
jacked the plough
(An’ some won't ever .march no more, but that don’t
matter now),
An’ watchin’ through my blinkin’ lids the yellow
road-dust rise,
An’ listenin’ to the language that was born of ’eat
an’ flies,
I made a little parable of earth an’ joy an’ pain,
And in language like the Bible it kept ’unimiu’
through my brain.
“Ritsin’ dust, sinkin ’ dust,
Driftin’ on, as all things must,
Sweepin’ ’ere an', settlin’ thither, shiftin’ onward for
a space,
Never ownin’ ’abitation, ’olding no abidin’-place,
Seekin’ always, findin’ never, somethin’ flttin’ you,
could do —
Yellow dust that’s bloivin’ by ns, there are lots of
blokes like you.”
Then we sweated at the Warren, or was trimmed at
Liverpool
(Oh, every man’s a ’ero now, though once ’c played
the fool ;
’K don’t need lessons once a week, an’ payments in
advance,
’Oo’s played a ’aider, tougher game in sunny, sloppy
France).
We’d dropped the slouch we brought from ’ome, we’d
tautened at the knees,
We're lookin’ all-round neater than we’d looked in
dungarees.
We’d smartened in salutin’ (we’d started somewhat
slack— <
Oh, a eane that ’ooks you when you pass’ll bring your
memory back!).
We’d learned the best forgettin’ is forgettin’ "ow to
grouse,
An’ that eyes an’ ’ands are ’andy things to ’ave
about the ’ouse,
That a pride in your battalion is the only proper
pride,
That side-arms are for drillin’ with—ail’ other tilings
beside.
We got the sharin' ’abit strong (we’d ’ad it rather
weak),
So that by-an’-bye you’d ’ear us gently murmur (.so
to speak) :
“Livin’ dust, ’uman dust,
Do your job. an’ earn your crust!
Oh, it’s blokes that’s built of stuff like you ’oo ’alf
the world ’ave swayed,
An’ you’ll never ’ave another chance to show ’ow
you arc made!
There is somethin’ more than nothin’ in the ’ardy an’
the true,
Cap in dook the world stands waitin’! There’s a
niche for blokes like you !”
I'd. stopped a splinter, later, with my foot, an’
dropped to rest,
When a traversin’ machine-gun grazed me deep across
tlie chest;
An’ starin’ at the ceilin’, snug in Blighty an’ my cot,
I pondered 'ard why some things is an’ other things
is not ;
Why blokes are never satisfied with what would make
me sick
(It’s mostly ’ooked from other blokes ’oo couldn’t
grab so quick),
No matter if it’s land or ’ouses, skirt or fags or
notes,
It sets one ’alf the ’ole mad world at ’alf the other’s
throats.
Oh, its record isn't ’olv, nor its reputation sweet,
That yellow dust, which ain’t the dust that blows
along the street;
They scratch it up from waterways, they burrow it
from ’oles,
To sell an’ purchase yachts an’ votes an’ precious ‘
stones an’ souls)
They tie it up in little rolls, an’ love an’ cherish
t it—
An’ God ’E knows the reason why, an’ ’E won't
ever split!
Lyin’ dust, fleetin’ dust,
Partner of the moth an’ rust,
Stayin’ men an’ spoilin’ women, though Pm statin’, in
advance,
I’m not spoiled—not so you’d notice —for I never ’ad
the chance!
Yet I’ve said, my fingers itch in’, an' the outlook
mostly blue:
‘‘Leave it for the owner, Cobber! Gobi ain’t good for
blokes like you!”
In the slough of last September we was ploughin’ to
an’ fro'
In a ’orror made of sleet above an' ’ip-(lee)) bog
below ;
The silly mules that knelt to lest, the wounded men
'oo stopped,
The black mud ’eld an’ dragged them in—they died
where they ’ad dropped.
Now the roads are dry an’ dusty in the coinin’ of
the Spring,
An' the birds would all be singin’ if they ’at] a place
to sing;
But the pal we ’ad last winter, an’ the sub. we used
to trust,
With the ’alt’ of our battalion, they are dust beneath
the dust.
An’ the blokes 'oo fought at Agineourt, an’ also
Waterloo,
An’ the older scraps the padre names, are dust an’
ashes, too.
So l watch beneath my eyelids, while the laden wind,
lifts ’igh
The dust of blokes I’m kickin’ up, ’oo’ll know me by-
an’-bye.
Liftin’ dust, driftin’ dust,
Flesh of men ’oo ’ached an’ thrust,
Shoved an’ struck with pike or bay'net—did your
little dash an’ died!
Teach ns all your dyin' taught you; teach us that an’
more beside!
Hy the good we never follo.w, by the, things we fail
to do,
Fou "oo trod the road before us, make us, somc’ou),
blokes Tike you !
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


JUNE
SUN. MON. TUES. WED. THUR.
FRI.
5
26
28
29
1
22
m
7
rP
A
NO
“Austral” Tailoring at
Sale Prices-
An "Austral” Sac Suit to measure
holds enough of merit to warrant the
preference of any man’s purchase at
any time. But at Sale Time the
reduction in price of 10 per cent,
adds a money-saving advantage, as
inducement to immediate purchase
—or on one of the 17 Midwinter Sale
Days.
Men who come to Town
each day will profit by
a visit to either JHead-
quarters or our Branch
Store, where the City’s
most extensive range
of high-grade suitings
is to-day on view.
Men who live at a dis-
tance are urged to send
for books of patterns
early. We send these
with our Catalogues
free to any address on
request, but time per-
mits of no delay, if an
order is to be placed
before the Sale ends, n
Carriage is paid on all Country Orders.
Gowing Bros.’ Midwinter Sale.
Consider for a moment. Latterly every-
thing purchased has cost more than in the
past, and it is inevitable that prices will still
further increase as time and the great World
War goes on. ■
For seventeen days, however, we offer men the oppor-
tunity to outfit here and save the money they otherwise
and other times would pay.
On every Sale Time Purchase, at least the 10 per cent. —which means 2s. in the
£ —is saved ; but, in addition, will be offered many lines set out for clearance on
which a deeper price cut will be made.
The time is short. From June 26 to July 14 are but seventeen shopping days ; and
with this early notice the men are wise who order right away on Tuesday next. Do
not risk delay.
SAVE MONEY FOR SEVENTEEN DAYS.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484=490 George Street; 3=17 Royal Arcade;
New Branch Shop at 304 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Austral" Sac Suits
to Measu re at
Sale Prices.
Country Customers send for Patterns.
Carriage is paid on all Country Orders.
SM
\9VI
6
5
4
Mvo^
\4
s\Ss
3
13
3
12.
1
11
IQ
9
8


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:—
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SIL\ r ER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIO US ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Provided Added
for to In-
Ex- Depreci- surance
Income. Claims, penses. ation. Fund.
Dec., £ £ £ £
11)03 . . 438,825 236,874 87,731 114,220
1904 .. 454,758 248,313 95,175 -- 111,270
1905 .. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1906 .. 466,326 335,946 104,564 25,816
1907 .. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
1908 .. 488,932 321,453 98,473 69,006
1909 .. 482,038 307,035 86,915 50,000 38,088
Standard Life business secured.
1910 .. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1911 .. 622,924 316,776 167,165 200 138,783
1912 .. 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 86,721
1913 .. 627,143 284,568 158,571 10,143 173,861
1914 .. 628,243 327,210 125,362 11,182 164,489
1915 . . 616,237 318,307 92,326 11.081 194,523
1916 .. 049,440 367,261 99,698 10,724 171,757
A stern chase is a long chase. This society
fell behind the procession; and now it has
hard work to catch up. The trouble is that
for many years it got very little new busi-
ness, which means that an exceptionally
large proportion of its policies are old and
therefore more likely to become claims than
would be the case had it been a progressive
office. Claims (including bonus additions
and bonuses paid in cash) were last year
equal to nearly 57 p.c. of the total income.
In the National Mutual, which is four years
older than the Colonial Mutual, the propor-
tion for the same year was only 46 p.c.
Now, claims mean more than that something
has to be paid out: they mean also that some-
thing ceases to come in. Hence, though the
society is really getting and nowadays keep-
ing a very fair number of new policies, the
total income shows for the present a poor
growth.
A better feature is the improvement in the
expense rate: —■
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905 .. £2l 17 10 p.c. 1911 ..£26 16 8 p.c.
1906 .. 22 8 8 „ 1912 .. 29 14 5 „
1907 .. 22 3 2 „ 1913 .. 25 5 8 „
1908 . . 20 2 10 „ 1914 . . 19 19 3 „
1909 .. 18 0 7 „ 1915 .. 14 19 7 „
1910 .. 20 16 4 „ 1916 .. 15 7 0 „
This reduction has been secured notwith-
standing that a reasonable canvass for new
business has been maintained. Last year
new-business premiums totalled £63,336. If
we assume that the renewal business cost
7 p.c. and the single-premium (annuity)
business cost 3 p.c., then this new business
was gOt at a cost of 113 p.c. of the first
year’s premiums; and though that isn’t a
cheap rate, it shows a vast improvement:—
New Premiums. Cost.
1913 .. .. £76,118 172 p.c.
1914 .. .. 64,082 153 „
1915 .. .. 51,766 125 „
1916 .. .. 63,336 113 „
In actual practice, perlians, there has not
been so great a reduction. But if it hasn’t been
in the cost of new business, then it has been
in the cost of old business. The reduction
has certainly taken place somewhere; and
bonuses must be all the better for it. There
is nowadays an annual distribution of
profit, and for the past year £79,448, equal
to about 17.2 p.c. of the premiums, is cut up.
This improvement on the figure of a few
years ago is not entirely due to the reduced
expense rate. The interest earnings are
much better than they used to be: —
1907 .. £3 16 9 p.c. 1912 .. £4 5 11 p.c.
1908 . . 4 1 1 „ 1913 . . 4 8 10,,
1909 .. 4 3 3 „ 3914 .. 4 9 10 „
1910 . . 4 3 10 „ 1915 . . 4 9 11 „
1911 .. 4 5 9 „ I 1916 . . i 10 5 „
The gross earnings for the past year were
about ss. p.c. more; but in 1915 the practice
was adopted of charging income tax against
the interest earnings, and in view of the
special character of the Federal income tax
this seems a fairer plan than to charge it
up with working exes. Part of the improved
rate is of course due to the writing down of
assets: about £175,000 of profit has been
thus appropriated in the last 10 years. This
has meant reduced bonuses while the writ-
ing down has been in progress, but prospects
are thus made brighter for those who come
in now. While the writing down has pro-
ceeded there has also been a good deal of
liquidation of old assets, and the present
distribution of funds is far better than that
'of 10 years ago:—
1906. p.c. 1916. p.c.
Mortgages •. £1,316,950 44.0 £1,337,371 . 30.8
Public securities 355,030 11.8 1,518,423 34.9
Freeholds and leases 786,769 26.3 832,770 19.2
Cash and deposits 145,531 4.9 176,069 4.1
Other assets . • 389,086 13.0 479,942 11.0
The public securities include £454,936 of
war loans; so the Colonial Mutual has
fairly done its duty in that respect, especi-
ally in view of its comparatively small sur-
plus of revenue in excess of claims and
exes. Actually it has put into these patriotic
loans an amount equal to the entire surplus
of revenue over outgoings since the war
started; and as these loans are free of
income tax, the society is going to escape
something presently when the war-bill has to
be paid.
When an almost entirely new manage-
ment proceeded to shake this society out of
its long sleep, it was seen that, in order to
attract the right sort of business-getters,
they must be given a chance of making com-
missions on some side-lines. So an Accident
branch was started a few years ago ; and the
next table shows what has been done: —
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1910 .. £6.460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 .. 13,166 3839 3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 5151 3754
1913 .. 11,875 5748 4320 1807
1914 .. 10,517 3103 4546 2868
1915 . . 12,250 3480 5978 2792
1916 .. 13,238 4275 6110 2853
The total funds are, however, less than the
£23,070 shown in the last column there,
because bonus additions have been made to
policies. For the past year £2471. was "thus
divided; and the general reserve now
amounts to £14.137, of which £2664 is to be
cut up in a bonus equal to 2 p.c. of the
benefits contracted for.
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
1909 .. £3,481 £39 £14,587 £11,145
Funds.
Brought in from the Standard, £22,000 10,855.
Deficit.
1910 . . 54,908 3,483 02,844 30,564
1911 .. 60,484 6,254 66,630 42,964
1912 .. 77,510 7,710 62,755 35,913
1913 .. 86,155 9,356 53,556 12,670
Funds.
1914 .. 1)7,036 15,476 49,623 19,267
1915 .. 104,807 18,809 48,735 66,530
1916 .. 121,308 15,616 51,245 110,977
That £110,977 is represented this way:—
Invested with the Funds of the Ordinary
Department .. ■. • • • • £103,616
Cash, loans on policies and sundries .. 8,734
£112,350
Less outstanding claims .. .. • • 1,373
Tangible funds as above £110,977
In 1910 the society took over the Stand-
ard and claimed that the business was
worth £22,000. If you strike out that dubi-
ous item you can also strike off £22,000 from
the exes, in the following year and charged
to extension of business account. For some
years the business was horribly expensive;
and there is still a good deal of leeway to
make up; but it is bemsr made up. The
actuarial net liability on December 31 was
£196.841; so the office has still the job of
making good the difference between that and
the £110,977 shown above. And that doesn’t
mean merely putting £85.864 by out of the
surplus of revenue over outgoings; for each
year, for some time to come, the actuarial
liability will grow.
* * * * '•
The National Bank of Tasmania
(Launceston, Tas.) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Nov., 1909.. 7,647 7p.c.= 5654 1993 50,950
May, 1910.. 8,115 7„ „ 5654 2461 53,411
Nov., 1910. . 8,058 7„ „ 5654 2404 55,815
May, 1911.. 8,127 7„„ 5587 2540 58,355
Nov., 1911.. 7,110 7 „ ~5587 1523 .59,878
May, 1912.. 8,828 7 ~ ~6587 1000 2241 62,119
Nov., 1912.. 7,906 7„ ~ 5587 2319 64,438
May, 1913.. 8,656 7„ „ 5587 3069 67/507
Nov., 1913.. 8,762 7 „ ~5587 1500 1675 69,182
May, 1914.. 9,393 7 „ ~5587 1000 2806 71,988
Premiums on new shares.. 4321 76,309
Nov., 1914.. 8,402 7p.c.= 6653 1749 78,058
Mav, 1915.. 9,219 7„ ~ 7142 2077 80,135
Nov., 1915.. 8,524 7„ ~ 7176 1348 81,483
May, 1916.'. 9,684 7 „ ~7176 1000 1508 82,091
Nov., 1916.. 9,102 7„ „ 7176 1926 84,917
May, 1917..10,244 7 „ „ 7176 1000 2068 86,985
Another case where the profit is a bit more
than it was before the war; and it really 'is
time that we began to consider what this
means. The prosperity ivliich such figures
signify is either real or bogus. If it is real
ir, comes from only one thing: the supply of
foods, etc., to Britain and the Allies at
extortionate prices. If it is bogus, then we
will have to pay for it all presently. There
is certainly some genuine profit-making at
the expense of Britain and the Allies: for
our metals and our wool, for instance, we
are getting almost staggering prices. What
are we going to do about that? We cannot
refuse to take the money. We are getting
no more than others are making the Allies
pay. But that blood money should not
stay in private pockets; and in making no
serious attempt to recover the war profits
—especially the profits that have been made
out of harassed Britain and the Allies —the
Government has been guilty of something
little short of a crime. It has certainly lent
color to the story that one or two members
of the Government allow themselves to be far
too much influenced by a group of indecently
greedy capitalists. As far as this paper can
see Australia will be driven to make another
attempt to carry Conscription. But the
task of those who will have to fight for it
will be made almost appallingly difficult if
no determined steps are taken to recover war-
time profits and use them for the benefit of
the nation —the only use to which they can
honestly be put. This little bank isn’t, of
course, a bad offender: far from .it. One
wouldn’t expect it to be. That its profit
should show any increase at all, indeed, indi-
cates how widespread are the effects of the
present grossly unhealthy conditions.
There was a time when this paper shiv-
ered a little at the Tasmanian National’s
poor holding of liquid assets. The position
is much more secure nowadays. Watch how
the liquid assets have bustled along:—
1907. 1916. 1917.
Free deposits .. £310,375 £425,627 £399,072
Fixed deposits .. 245,929 317,295 332,862
Other liabilities . . 79,844 24,688 25,374
Liquid assets . . 174,252 313,678 315,209
Advances, etc. •• 630,537 714,484 707,523
Premisesandsundries 28,177 25,866 24,986
In 10 years the bank has got in £175,000
of deposits, half of them fixed ; and £141.000
of the total amount is still held liquid. This
means that most of the money which has
been put into new advances has been either
new share capital or accumulated profits.
The capital is now £195,250; 10 years ago
it was £152.040. The , little National is
more of a local bank on the American pat-
tern than any other in the Commonwealth :
its head office is in Launceston and it hasn’t
even got a branch at Hobart. Its district
is not wildly progressive, so it isn’t going to
run ahead fast. But it keeps steadily plug-
ging away; and if a 7 p.c. dividend isn’t
much to pay on a capital of £195,250 when
it is backed by nearly £90,000 of reserves,
the bank can at least justly claim to be
helping its own district as well as making
a comfortable thing for itself.
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co.
(Adelaide) : —• Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1905. .£5,609 7| p.c. = £4939 £750 £4735
1906.. 5,890 71 „ „ 4939 750 £2Ol 4936
1907.. 4,883 61 „ „ 4116 750 17 4953
Loss.
1908.. 632 Nil 4321
Profit.
1909.. 6,426 74 p.c. = 4939 2000 3808
1910.. 10,863 10 „ „ 6585 3000 1278 5086
1911.. 10,909 10 „ „ 6585 3000 1324 6410
1912.. 11,960 10 „ „ 6585 3000 2375 8785
1913.. 10,262 10 „ „ 6585 3000 677 9462
1914.. 7,677 74 „ „ 4939 3000 9200
1915.. 2,956 3§ „ „ 2469 1500 8187
1916.. 6,118 5 „ „ 3292 2500 326 8513
1917.. 8,561 10 „ „ 6585 1976 8513
Through drought and keen competition the co.
was gasping in 1914-15; but moderate rains
made it possible to harvest the salt, while
the German submarine gave the co. a mar-
ket which Australian politicians have appar-
ently not cared whether it had or not. In
the past year the rains have been abnormal;
and that on top of the short and dear labor
supply has curtailed production. It looks
as though that may mean dear salt pre-
’scntl.v. Actually in the 12 months to .Tune
30, 1916, the flaccid, loafing State of N. S.
Wales alone imported nearly 6000 tons of
ordinary salt, in addition to over £4OOO
worth of packet salt, and Heaven knows
how much rock salt. It shouldn’t have been
necessary to fill a cubic foot of shipping
room with this product; it is a disgrace to
Australian politicians that it was necessary.
And it doesn’t say very much for Australian
enterprise either; for attempts to interest
moneyed people in schemes for recovering
salt have in pre-war years been received with
indifference. In some glad day in the future
perhaps the man with a scheme for increas-
ing this country’s output of manufactured
goods may be welcomed as a benefactor.
Hitherto he has known quite well that he
would be regarded as either a crank or a
schemer whom we have to be on our guard
against lest he get away with some of our
money.
Even with the Protection we have had it
has been possible for this co. to make some
progress. Its dividends for 10 years have
averaged just on 71 p.c., and there has been
enough profit left over to show this change:
1907. 1916. 1917.
Assets other than fixed
property and plant. . £24,390 £32,374 £24,618
Liabilities . . .. 10,609 13,184 3,046
Surplus ..£13,781 £19,190 £21,572
Australia needs enterprise and faith in itself
as well as a tariff.
The Country Producers’ Selling Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney), a more or less co-operative
concern, dealing in farm and station pro-
duce : —■
Bonus
to Con- Written
March, Loss. Dividend. signors. Off. Deficit.
1911.. £660 £660
Profit. Reserves.
1912.. 3590 5 p.c. = £984 £869 1077
1913.. 6975 74 „ „ 1731 2872 3449
1914.. 9058 8 „ „ 2000 4237 £lOOO 5270
1915.. 6081 7 „ „ 1750 3498 500 5603
1916.. 9479 7 „„ 1750 5295 1000 7037
1917.. 9081 7 „ „ 1750 4826 1000 8542
It is only here and there that the man who
throws in to a new co-operative concern has
much money. The big man, as a rule, hasn t
much to complain about: he gets his work
done by Private Enterprise at cut prices.
In Australia, at any rate, the small man is
mostly kept small by exorbitant charges;
and even when he sets to work to escape
them —which isn’t often —he is generally
handicapped by lack of funds. Still, if he
isn’t greedy, it is astonishing how rapidly
his reserves pile up. In this case all the
capital that could be raised at the start was
£25,000. On that the co. was able to
finance the purchase of premises at Pyr-
mont. To-day, though it has been operating
only six years, and though every year it has
given a bonus to consignors, it has (after
allowing for depreciation) a third more
assets than it started with. Of course this
isn’t enough to allow it to'go into the busi-
ness of pastoral finance; and it shouldn't
attempt to, for, though very profitable for. a
co. with plenty of fixed capital, it is peril-
ous for a weak co. Certainly advances
against consignments are unavoidable; but
that’s a different matter. On March 31 the
Commonwealth (as agents for the British
Government) owed the co. £73,217 for wool,
and other people had got advances and
credits totalling £24,471. To finance that
lot the co. was leaning on its own creditors
to the extent of £96,164. But those figures
are quite exceptional. For the ordinary
purposes of the co. its own funds are now
just about sufficient: “freeholds and lease-
holds, buildings, plant and other assets”
(including £l2OO of War Loan) stand at
£42,237, while the capital is £24,142. re-
serves before ' paying the current dividend
and bonus £15.118, and depreciation fund
(not reckoned with the reserves in the table)
£3500; total £42,760. The bonus to con-
signors is 20 p.c. off the selling commission,
reducing it to 2 p.c.; 10 p.c. off the commis-
sion on sales of fat stock, reducing it to 2i
p.c. ; and in the aggregate £619 off produce-
sale commissions.
* * * #
The Equitable Permanent Benefit
Building, Land and Savings Institution
(Sydney)
Written Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1905 ..£9,086 9 p.c. = £6,338 £3O £32,351
1906 .. 9,545 12 „ „ 8,451 677 32,768
1907 .. 9,875 9 „ „ 6,338 36,305
1908 .. 10,102 9 „ „ 6,338 518 39,551
1909 . . 9,933 12 „ „ 8,451 455 40,578
1910 .. 10,741 9 „ „ 6,338 760 44,221
1911 .. 11,835 9 „ „ 6,338 100 49,618
1912 . . 12,805 15 „ „ 10,564 363 51,496
Premiums on new shares, £1942 .. 53,438
1913 .. 12,365 9 p.c. = 7,204 88 58,511
1914 . . 18,890 9 „ „ 8,401 80 68,920
1915 .. 15,108 15J „ ~14,395 25 69,608
1916 .. 15,187 10 „ „ 9,390 22 75,383
1917 .. 14,776 10 „ „ 9,390 3 80,766
This co. has 43 years’ experience behind it;
and in that time it ought to have charted all
the snags in the stream. Twelve months
ago the directors stated their policy:—
Your Board has continued to deal conservatively
with applications for advances, preferring’ to see a
reduction in the amount advanced during the year
rather than push business with the possibility of
incurring losses owing to a quiet market as a result
of prevailing conditions consequent on the war.
During the past year they certainly were
enticed by the high rates offering to lend a
bit more than in the preceding term; still
repayments were well ahead of advances—
£ll3,744 as against £85,482. It is still. n<>
doubt, quite possible to lend money safelj
Everything depends upon the margin re-
quired, and as the present is a time when a
large margin can be asked without making
the prospective borrower jump, the chances
are that the current business is quite safe.
The worst snag in the stream paddled in
by a co. in this business is the unexpected
burst of a boom. In this case the lavish
spending of war money has given the lenders
on the old inflated values a fine chance to
get snug. The other bad snag is the sudden
withdrawal of deposits. But this co. isn’t
likely to be hurt that way, because
in the first place it lias nearly
£60,000 liquid and in temporary in-
vestments ; its advances come in, as a
rule, at the rate of well over £lOO,OOO a
year; and its total liabilities are under
£224,000. There are duller times ahead of
it for certain ; but it looks the sort of solid
old thing that will do pretty well in bad
times and be ready to do better when the
times are again not so bad.
* * * *
Siiortland Islands Plantation Co.- —
This co., in the Burns-Philp stable, has had
little except trouble during the year. In
the first week a gale—the worst, of course,
for 40 years—levelled 2000 cocoanut trees
and tilted 5000 others; and though most of
them were saved, it meant a set-back to the
plantations. The labor force once got down
as low as 36; since then it has been industri-
ously built up to 130, and, “though this
number is ample for weeding and upkeep
work, the extra task of straightening up the
plantations after the gale will render it im-
possible to undertake any new work for some
months.” As to labor generally :
As the result of strong representations made to
the Commonwealth Government by the planters of


Every mine manager and electrician has fre-
quently experienced difficulty with his signal system,
due to battery troubles. The Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, and corner
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne, can over-
come all your troubles by the installation of a special
“Bell Binging Transformer,” which has been designed
to meet the conditions of the Coal Mines Act. Give us
particulars of your system, and we will be pleased
to advise and quote to your requirements.— Advt.
* f*
A new invention that is attracting marked atten-
tion is an all-steel fence made and designed in
Australia, by the Rawson Moody Manufacturing Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney. It is built with powerful
steel posts and droppers, in conjunction with which
is used a powerful non-stretch steel wire, and the
whole makes a dandy fence that is simple, strong
and cheap, as it costs only 16s. to £1 per chain
complete. Catalogue on request.— Advt.
* * * *
Elbert Hubbard correctly described the word
“failure” when he said “an opportunity to say I told
you so.” There should be no opportunity for anyone
to say “I told you so” after you have chosen the
roofing for your homestead, dairy, barn or out-
houses. Choose a roofing that has been tried and its
success recognised—a roofing that will resist the ele-
ments—that will neither rot, rust, sweat, crumble or
pinhole—that will not affect drinking water, yet at
the same time be waterproof—that is cheap to buy,
cheap to freight and easily handled. Adatnax Roof-
ing answers these points most perfectly. The various
Governments of the Commonwealth have used
Adamax Roofing in large quantities with great
success. All interested in roofings now or in the
future should write for free booklet, “The Adamax
Series” and samples. William Adams & Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problenis
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth - the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
The weak point of metal pipe has been made the
strong point of Pioneer Wood Pipe. In which the
minimum amount of metal surface is exposed to rust
—a telling point when taken in conjunction with its
many other satisfactory features. Write for our
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company;
Limited (Head Office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Fac-
tories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic.;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State
Governments. — Advt.
The Hetton Coal Co. Ltd., 56 Pitt Street, Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.— Advt.
There’s no “speculation” about a material that
improves with age. Build with Spriggs’ Asbestolite.
Economy, durability and workability, proof against
Fire and Ants, speed in erecting and handsome, fin-
ished appearance are its undeniable recommendations.
All handy sizes. Get Booklet “B.” Spriggs’ Asbesto-
lite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt. [6
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * #
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * # ir
Gyratory Rock Crusher from Australian stock: the
world-renowned “McCullv.” No. 4 manganese-fitted.
Capacity 20 to 48 tons hourly. Apply sole represen-
tatives : Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, the
Quay, Sydney; or, The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., 130 Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
# »■ * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and' Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
£12,500,000.
The Trust Funrk under the control of
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
exceed this figure, thus showing the
confidence in which it is held by the
public.
This Company offers dis-
tinct advantages over the
Private Trustee.
Write for Booklet setting
out particulars of its
Methods and Charges.
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made. -
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital.. .. 96,165 6 6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED,
Blanches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street, Sydney.
•JJIOR IMMEDIATE SALE.
MOUNT MILLER
MANGANESE MINE.
BEECHER,
Boyne Valley Line,
Queensland, Australia.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
'pHE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities," Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
the British Solomons, the Lieut.-Gov. of Papua lias
recently visited the Solomons to inquire into the
shortage of labor and upon the proposal to permit
British planters to. engage labor from the adjacent
German Possessions. His Ex.’s report is awaited
with great anxiety, as upon it absolutely depends
whether there can be any additional development
or whether the Estates are to be closed oft at then
present areas and all further progress stopped.
There are 1170 acres under cocoanuts and
30 acres under rubber —the latter a plot
“too small to be profitably tapped at the pre-
sent price of rubber.” The trees are from one
to seven years old and some of them came
into bearing last year. The copra yield was,
however, only about 41 tons; this year it will
be about 80 tons. So far the co. has called
up £22.820 of its total capital of £50,000, and
£20,192 has been spent on the estates, equal
to under £lB per acre, including buildings,
and reckoning the 18,000 acres of undeveloped
land as worth nothing. Two calls of £5 each
were made last year; the same will probably
be made this year.
The Germans, when they had possession,
allowed the employment of natives from Ger-
man New Guinea in their part of the Solo-
mons. The time may come when the Solomon
Islander will be a good agriculturist and
anxious to take the job; so far he isn’t. The
native of New Guinea, on the other hand,
is an excellent worker —when he works; and
he mostly is prepared to do it. Both in
Papua and the old German part the present
labor supply exceeds the demand. Papua
has, however, more than enough rich country
to employ the whole of the native popula-
tion ; and it is most improbable that permis-
sion will be given to employ any of them
outside their own island. The doubt that
appears to be in the minds of those in autho-
rity is whether a policy should be pursued
with regard to the rest of the island which
has been set aside as quite out of the ques-
tion with regard to the old British portion.
If that position is maintained the progress
of this and other cos. in the British Solomons
is going to be very slow.
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Vic-
toria (Melbourne) :
Carried to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Feb., 1912.. £57 4 p.c. = £4l £l6 £167
Aug., 1912.. 53 44 „ „ 44 9 176
Feb., 1913.. 41 44 „ „ 40 1 177
Aug., 1913.. 59 44 „ ~ 49 10 187
Feb., 1914.. 60 44 „ „ 48 12 199
Aug., 1914.. 45 44 ~ ~ 48 196
Forfeited capital.. 9 205
Feb., 1915.. 52 44 p.c.= 48 4 209
Aug., 1915.. 38 44 „ „ 42 205
Feb., 1916.. 45 44 „ „ 39 6 211
Aug., 1916.. 34 44 „ „ 34 211
Feb., 1917.. 35 44 „ „ 30 5 216.
This midget was formed to assist Vic. public
servants with small loans. But semi-philan-
thropists to provide the money are absurdly
scarce ; and actually the unfeeling wretches
are drawing out more than they are invest-
ing. So the share capital is only £1892
now as against £2142 in February, 1914.
Yet unquestionably the little co. had, and
still has, its uses. There are hard-luck cases
in every big service; and it is often an enor-
mous value to these down-and-nearly-outs to
get a small loan on Christian terms. The
mistake this co. is making is in trying to
get and hold the money at p.c. and offer-
ing its own loans accordingly.
* * • •
It looks as though the Broken Hill cos.
want some plain talking to. For months
past they have been pouring out the tale that
their output was being restricted owing to
the shortage of men, and they have been
scouring Australia to get more hands. An
emissary arrived in Sydney a couple of
months ago primed with figures and begged
the Government to assist in dispatching men
to the field. The unions protested vigorously,
declaring that the cos. couldn’t find a market
for more stuff than they were producing and
that the Associated Smelters at Pt. Pirie
were already chock-a-block with concentrates
and metal. They contended that the men
were simply being taken to Broken Hill to
deliberately overload the local market. That
now looks to have been true; and if it is it
was a shameful thing for the cos. to do. At
any rate, the new men had barely arrived
at the Hill before the Associated Smelters
intimated that the cos. must send them still
less concentrates; owing to the lack of bot-
toms to remove the metals the deliveries
must be reduced by 10 p.c. And the chances
are that they will be asked to reduce* con-
signments still further. The cos. must have
known what was coming, because Associated
Smelters, Ltd., is a co-operative concern, in
which these mining cos. are. the shareholders.
They have also all of them representatives
on the Board. An unpleasant feature of the
whole business is that for some weeks past,
even while these labor reinforcements were
being sent forward, there has been a good
deal of steady selling of certain Broken Hill
stocks. Evidently somebody knew what was
coming. The N.S.W. Government can’t take
any notice of that, perhaps. But it is en-
titled to ascertain wiiether the cos. which
recently sought its assistance to get men for
Broken Hill were acquainted with the posi-
tion and prospects at Pt. Pirie. If they
were (and it was their duty to know), then
the Government should do some very plain
talking to them. No self-respecting
ment can permit itself to be used as a t
for such a purpose.
The B. H. Prop, says plainly that, while
other Broken Hill cos. may be able to pro-
duce concentrates in excess of what the
Associated Smelters can take, putting then
surplus money into these stocks, it is in
too much need of capital for the steel woiks
to do anything of that kind. The next big
outlay at the Newcastle works is for steel-
rolling plant.
* * * *
“Quidam”: “Good Australian” jprophesies
(B. 7/6/T7) a big demand for minerals dur-
ing the next few years. I wonder if this
country will wake up in time to catch the
’bus. At present the local demand for many
of the ores is almost nil. Manganese, for
instance, is practically _ unsaleable. Dia-
tomaceous earth, magnesite, etc., are in the
same boat. The ordinary man imagines,
looking at the cabled prices, that the
industrial metal-miner is at present
reaping a rich harvest. Well, in many
cases he isn’t. Take ores containing zinc,
for instance, and try to sell them. Austra-
lian works won’t buy them at all, so that,
though Hughes “solved the metal problem,”
the miner’s position is worse than formerly.
Lead is nominally at about £3O; but charges
reduce the price to about £2O. For prac-
tical purposes it doesn’t matter to the miner
whether lead is quoted at £2O when he gets
almost all of it or at £3O when he gets only
two thirds of it. Or take a complex ore
containing (say) zinc, lead, copper and sil-
ver. The smelting works that will buy the
copper and silver won’t pay for zinc or lead ;
in fact, won’t take the ore at all if over a
certain percentage of zinc is present. The
works that will pay for lead and silver
won’t pay for copper and zinc. Zinc, in
fact, is the outcast, pariah and abomination
of the local smelter (to whom alone the
miner is permitted to sell), and the for-
warder of it is penalised for its presence at
so much a unit; so that the person who goes
nearly broke buying a sheet of manufac-
tured zinc at present prices is apt to totally
miscalculate its “value” to the miner. The
habit of computing what a complex ore is
worth by taking the percentage of metals
in it and reckoning the rest by reference to
the metal quotations is apt to lead inexperh
enced people into the mud. When we can
extract all our metals and sell them after
extraction the problem will be less perplex-
ing. At present an ore is worth what one
can get for it and that, under present
arrangements, is in many cases little. As for
magnesite, infusorial earth, etc., a matchbox-
full per month appears to satisfy local re-
quirements. It is a great country, but it
wants a lot more people, a lot more work,
and a lot more commonsense.
* * * *
The old Turon goldfield (N.S.W.) is on
the last lap. Nothing is now visible on the
landscape but a procession of abandoned
shafts and heaped-up stone—the relics of
the roaring days of the ’7o’s. Even dredg-
ing has ceased, the two machines that for
years nosed up and down the picturesque
stream having been dismantled and carted
off to New Guinea. The latest event is the
removal of the plant from the old Queens-
lander mine. This show, in private hands,
has carried on for years on a big body of
low-grade stuff; but the few dwt. to the ton
have not represented enough cash. Work on
the field is now confined to fossicking, and
seme of the old dish-and-cradle hands occa-
sionally come into Sofala and flash bottles
of nice-looking alluvial gold. The township
is fast decaying, the population having come
down from 30,000 in the old times to under
300. The Hill End field, which lies 20 miles
north, is helping to keep Sofala in existence,
motor services running over the Turon daily.
Boring at the north end is urged as a
stimulant to Kalgoorlie. Tens of thousands
of pounds have been won from the reefs and
lodes in that part of the field, yet no seri-
ous attempt has been made to test them
below a few hundred feet. Dr. Maclaren
and other geologists are quoted in support
of the theory that the ore channels from
which the once great Golden Mile mines de-
rived all their wealth extend northward, and
in the Hidden Secret telluride of gold was
for a time found in fairly large quantities.
Certainly the deep ground is worth a scien-
tific test; but, judging by the work that has
been done, the prospects are not brilliant.
* * * *
Developments in the Ivanhoe (W.A.)
have reached an interesting stage. Years
ago when its main source of ore supply—
the East lode —was broken up and impover-
ished by an intrusive porphyry bar, shaft
sinking was pushed ahead and has been in
progress ever since. Dr. Maclaren recom-
mended this work after a thorough geolo-
gical overhaul of the property, and he
reckoned that the lode would free itself from
the porphyry and be its old self again at a
vertical depth of about 3400 ft. Recent
developments at 3620 ft. tend to bear out
the expert’s opinion. A crosscut is now
being extended to the lode at 3620 ft., and
should the co. find values and a width of
ore similar to those obtained before the
porphyry intrusion occurred —and there is
no geological reason why it shouldn’t—the
mine will avoid the catastrophe which has
threatened it for some years past.
The drop in Edna May’s monthly dividend
is not relished in the West; but in the cir-
cumstances the reduction seems imperative.
Equipment and development have run away
with a lot of money, and the water difficulty
has put working costs up to a figure much
higher than would otherwise have been the
case. The co. has little cash in hand and
is burdened with a substantial liability on
account of State and Federal taxation. On
the other hand, it has a fine block of ore
available between the 300 ft. and 385 ft.
levels, from which something like 30.000
tons are expected. Then there is the ore
above 300 ft. and between 385 ft. and 480 ft.
to be taken into account. The show has
been a good one, and has paid more in divi-
dends than all the other mines on the Yil-
garn field put together. Its life certainly
appeal’s to be limited, but there is still a
lot of gold to be taken out. Whether the
shares are worth their present price is
another matter.
* * * *
Oswald’s, the crack mine at Maldon
(Vic.), can yet make divs., though it has
put out a million in gold. The family no
longer lives at Maldon, and the mine is run
by a co., but the Oswalds still collect a big
swag of the profits. The stone goes about
15dwt., and most of it is broken from 1000 ft.
As the shoot can not be picked up underfoot
a winze is to go down to see whither it has
slid. This is always the bother at Maldon,
But in Oswald’s the family had the luck to
get fresh shoots before the undertaker had
to be called in. The reef at 1450 ft. needs
only a bit more color to make it very valu-
able, for there is a splendid formation 15ft.
wide. But the best prospect for a long time
has been 3dwt. Even of that, though, manager
Couehman has hopes; they’ve got costs down
pretty fine at Maldon.
* # # *
Dyason is going to sweep away old land-
marks at Bendigo, for under the amalgamation
he will not give the yields from mines indi-
vidually, though he may let it be known
where the best stone is being broken. His
first aggregate yield isn’t good, and doesn’t
look like a 17 p.c. div. Still it is early days
yet. and Dyason. has to get his crew pro-
perly stroked before exes, can be got down
and yields lifted. His development pro-
gramme also has to be unfolded. On present
appearances he may have trouble with tri-
butors, as these are out for a new agreement.
And they want such a lot, too, that even
Mines Minister Tom Livingston had to tell
them to go away. At home economies have
started: thus Dyason expects to save 21
hours a week by having only fortnightly
clean-ups—quite enough.
* * * *
Thus the Mt. Lyell Board: “The Direc-
tors have decided, after careful deliberation,
not to issue the usual report and accounts
for the half-year ended March 31, 1917. They
consider it would be advantageous to issue
accounts only once a year in future.” As
a matter of fact, until the Government does
what it should have done long ago and
announces the war-tax, no accounts are
much good. An interim div. of Is. 3d., taking
£80,574, for the half-year ending September
next, is declared payable on July 30. This is
at the same rate as the last cut-up. But note
that it is not for the half-year to the end of
March, though it is paid well before the end of
the following half. Possible taxation, uncertain
times, and the need to strengthen the finances
are the explanation offered for this little
move. In the March six months the co.
mined 145,464 tons, against 166,497 tons
for the September term. To win 3002 tons
copper, 149.8290 z. silver and 39520 z. gold
for the half-year was a feat, as that yield
of copper is only 137 tons less than for the
Sentember half-year, when 20,157 tons more
were smelted. The rich shoot on the Lyell
Blocks boundary helped to this result
solidly. Bowes Kelly says the continuous 8000
h.p. to be got from extending the Mt. Mar-
garet power scheme is to serve the first unit
of the co.’s electrolytic spelter plant. This
will eat up £70,000; so what will the new
30.000-h.p. King River sche e require? The
co. certainly does need money.
* * * •
“Thrift Week” in Melbourne was marked
by a demonstration of the use of Morwell
brown coal in the production of suction gas.
It is claimed that with a suitable type of
producer brown coal yields as good results
as charcoal and box firewood at double the
cost. On the basis of the present price
of charcoal and firewood the value of brown
coal is 28s. 9d. a ton, while it can be bought
on railway sidings for 10s. The Mines De-
partment made the experiments at its test-
ing plant, and if manufacturers can get
similar results Victoria is going to effect a
large annual economy in the cost of manu-
facture wherever power is used.
Golden. Ridge ( W.A.), finding nothing
suitable in the way of a new property, is
repaying another 2s. per share at the end of
this month, making ss. so dealt with alto-
gether. The Court sanctioned the return of
that much capital. But it is all subject to
recall.


Under
Royal
Warrant
g
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
OjartesHeidsieo^
REIMS
■*»*r.
*
in— i
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
sloSic
ALLAN & CO.
PTr. LTD.
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/, posted 2/1
Norwegian Cradle Song — Morel
Meditation - - More!
A Resolve - - Kotlar
Question - - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blore
ALLAN S, 261 Collins St.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE-
MOET <& CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
p%,.
3k>„;
»&
SS*-)^'
S.B
4uca
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge,
the wonderful hinterland.
, Palm Trees , V
Tropicaf Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and scenic splendour
A.Booklet telling all about il
is yours for the asking
/v// tn this coupon.-
Nome
Address
/ci the Director of
Intelligence &Tourisf Bureau.
Brisbane, QUEENSLAND.
..M
■ -* -
m
m.
■
■ z
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVIN
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, June 18, 1917.
My Dear Auini, —
In order to put the extinguisher on a sug-
gestion that the State should do the decent
thing now and hand Government House in
Macquarie-street back to the Common-
wealth, it has been suddenly decided to sell
Cranbrobk —the roomy mansion bought to
house State Governors years ago. Some of
the land will go with the old home. The rest
is to be cut iqi into small suburban lots.
Originally the home of a wealthy sporting
man, James White, it commands a view
which the late Lady Rawson called “the
loveliest in the world”—and she had seen
many views in her travels in the wake of
her Admiral.
Nothing doing except socks, and a few
concerts, with never a decent excuse for the
smart girl to wear her best .drapery. How-
ever, there’s the black tricorne hat still with
us. This Napoleonic millinery is now
adorned with gold cockades. You can almost
hear the band play when it comes into view.
The Conservatorium was crowded to its
keyhole on Saturday afternoon for the first
orchestral concert of the season, under
Yerbrugghen’s waving hands. Chairs, side-
ways on, had been squashed against the wall
for devotees who came early and supported
the long wait with socks and light literature.
The highbrows with reserved seats bounded
in at the last moment. The “house” man-
agement is simply dreadful. After the fid-
dlers had sawed softly in a preliminary tune-
up. and Verbrugghen at high tension had
looked round to diagnose the squeaking shoe-
leather, the Conservatorium orchestra let it
go—“ The National Anthem” raised to a
new dignity by the master-craftsman’s
orchestration. After that came the Cullens.
They were late and sidled into their seats
on velvet foot, the little man in the con-
ductor’s pen impatiently waiting till the
Deputy-Gov. had deposited his hat in safe
keeping. Beethoven, in the overture to his
only opera, “Fidelio,” a lively tinkle with
melancholy interludes like the wailing of
lost kittens, and in two massive symphonies,
kept the early-pilgrim mothers and sisters
in ecstatic silence till the finish of each item.
The Philistines who applauded when the
triumphant fiddles paused between a move-
ment got a frigid stiffening of Yerbrugghen’s
back for their pains.
The Stewart Richardsons’ daughter Mar-
garet took a plain gold ring from Neville
Laurence, of Strathfield, in St. Philip’s
Church the other day. He’s a son of solici-
tor Charles Laurence and a brother of the
other lawyer who was the .model for The
Bulletin’s Little Boy from Manly 30 years
ago. Parson Johnstone came from old St.
John’s, Parramatta, to tie the knot. Nor-
man Oakes, who belongs to a historic family
in the old town, was one of the groomsmen ;
and Arthur Gardiner also helped the best
man to remember the pocket he’d put the
ring in.
There is to be a civic lunch to wash down
the presentation to Glossop, C.B. J. C,
Watson wants the souvenir to be “something
tangible” upon which the man who dished
the Emden “and bis family can look with
pride.” Alas, the bashful hero is a bachelor!
Mrs. Brittain, the handsome wife of the
'Murkan Consul, comes from the South —
romantic background for the U.S. novelist
who wants to get away from Chewcawgo mil-
lionaires. President of the American-Aus-
tralian League of Help, the lady is putting
vim into their work for-France’s Day. A
stall in Moore-street will be under the Star-
spangled banner as a result.
Budden-Morris, the young Sydney pianist
whose recent performance at the Steinway
Hall was given under the patronage of
Queen Mother Alexandra, was a former pupil
of'Yvonne Charvin. He writes to her “with
eternal gratitude” of his brighter prospects in
London. Princess Henry has stirred up
musical bigwigs to lend their aid qnd give
the Australian pianist a push; and the
Queen Mother bought tickets for her friends
for the last concert. Eight shillings apiece,
by the way, for the best seats.
Dep.-Governor Cullen revoked his inten-
tion of living at Government House during
his term as locum tenens. So they stay on
at their flower-decked home in the hinterland
of Mosman, and, incidentally, save money.
No “official” meals will worry the mistress
of the house in that sylvan retreat.
Captain Henderson, R.N., has. after a
little delay, got away to duty on the other
side. But no passport for his indignant
sister could be screwed out of the adamant
authorities, and the lady has a right to
wonder why the Premiers’ womenkind got
through. Meanwhile Miss Henderson has
been eating the breakfast chop with the
Cullens.
A.D.C. Clifford, when lie tires of watching
the lambkins skip in the Riverina, goes on to
the G.-G.’s staff. He picks up the threads
dropped by Firth, who has returned to the
war.
General Finn's only son has recently been
promoted to a captaincy after two years’ ser-
vice. He’s in British heavy artillery, where,
even in war-time, gunners have a hard climb
for a major’s crown.
Lady Denman’s hobby—white leghorns—
has led her into other thrift excursions. A
recent article in a Loudon paper, “Economy
in the Backyard," was from her pen.
Mrs. Val Jam-
eson’s “P e t e r ’ s
Nationality” has got
into a second edition ;
and here’s a picture
of the lady, sent you.
with the hope that
her effort to rouse
the public to take
more interest in
“State” and neg-
lected children will
have great success.
First of all, she
wants Hereford
House made more
attractive. Hereford
House is a sort of
exchange, where the
“S tat e” children
awa it boarding-out.
There’s a stream passing to and fro; and
sometimes an unattractive child has to wait
many days—weeks often—before anyone will
undertake to board and mother it. In that
time the poor, unwanted little Creature has
nothing better to play in than a small, grimy
asphalt yard. “To make healthy, happy
children is national ecomony,” says Mrs.
Jameson.
France’s Day is getting into form. In a
crib six storeys above the pavement Neville
Mayman presses the buttons that will ring
out a golden tune on July 13. On the wall
is an inspiring picture of a French soldier
advancing to victory with the words, “We
Shall Get Them!” This will be sold at ss.
in a three-color print. The brooch —a charm-
ing fancy—goes for a mere 10s., and lesser
trophies can be collected for a shilling
upwards. The Australian kiddy has done
mountains of sewing for baby Francois. In
return, any youngster may buy for sixpence
a tricolor button that daddy couldn’t get
for less than twice as much.
The stone courtyard behind the Fire Bri-
gade’s Headquarters was alive with samples
of firemen’s agility the other afternoon.
They ran a ladder up to Heaven —stopped
just, this side of it—and a “saver,” having
made a goat-like ascent, looked calmly at the
universe. They shot another cobweb to tlie
top storey of an adjacent building, and
showed the goggle-eyed company how to toss
the inmates of a burning house Over a
shoulder and bring them to earth as easily
as if they were bath-towels. In an interval
Acting-Premier Fuller banded two senior
brigade officers, Sydney Watson and J. F.
Ford, the King’s Medal “for exceptional
heroism and devotion to duty.” Watson asked
his missus to pin his medal on bis coat,
and the good lady did it all smiles.
The Myrtle Meggy way at the pianoforte,
notably when she pursues the sombre
Beethoven chords, brought her a barrowload
of blooms at the Conservatorium last week.
She’s the Sydney girl who had a long spell of
training on the other side, and now instructs
the. young pianist in Macquarie-street.
Amongst Australians to lately come home
is Surgeon-colonel Sturdee, A.M.C. He is the
only brother of the Admiral of Falkland
Islands fame.
Kevin Goldrick, who first made acquaint-
ance with Fritz when he visited the Fanning
Island cable station with a machine-gun and
some blowing-up apparatus, is likely to know
him a lot more. A cable says the Australian
boy is wounded and a prisoner of war in
Westphalia, where the ham comes from.
Kevin passed through the officers’ school in
Sydney, but went away carrying a corporal’s
stripes, stars being short at the time. Mother
recently pulled up her roots in Sydney to
take her young daughter’s voice to the
Melba Conservatorium over the border.
In London a few weeks ago umbrellas
were unfurled for • the wedding of Lorna
Chadwick Osborn —a grand-daughter of the
late Robert Chadwick, of Sydney—to Squad-
ron-commander Edmonds, R.N., D. 5.0., of
Hants.
Remember Hilda Harnett, who went to
Egypt to type for the Red Cross? She
married Lieut. Abbott and recently helped
to nurse her husband in an English .hospital.
He is a whole man again and able to jump
into a Light Horse saddle.
F. <i. and A. 11. Sargood, of the softgoods
firm, have handed over £2703 to pay for an
Australian battleplane. The cash has been
cabled to England.
The last mail brought us more news about
the loss of seven valuable workers for the
Australian Comforts Funds (Unlimited).
They had coffee-stalls in the Bapaume Town
Hall, and were at their stands when the
place was blown to smithereens.
The North Shore Hospital is looking for
£2OO to equip a massage department. Soldiers
in particular will benefit by the outlay. So
the Sydney Vagabonds are up and doing.
On July 2 they’ll produce “Mrs. Gorringe’s
Necklace” in St. James’s Hall.
The long claw of coincidence timed a
recent recital by Cyril Monk and Frank
Hutchens just as news came through that
Maurice Ravel had been wounded in France.
The point of the claw rested on the fact
that a trio by this French composer (Glad-
stone Bell at the ’cello) was the pivot of
the programme.
In “Canary Cottage” Dot Brunton wears
lots of adorable clothes as the frisky Trixie
who runs the mustard-plaster camp. She
changes her garments so often that even the
glorified ballet gown in which she attends her
stage wedding with William Greene —tall,
dark-haired young man, much attached to
a blazer and cricketing flannels —looks too
ethereal to last 10 minutes. Maud Fane,
under a flounced cloak, shows us what an
impressive thing gran’ma had in this enrlv-
Vietorian drape. The chorus froeking is
not more daring than that which drips round
a Manly beach on a sumYncr afternoon. It's
just surf.v in style, though Canary Cot is
set amidst pink mountains that might be
Neapolitan ice-cream.
The Alexandra Hospital for kiddies is feel-
ing round for any help that comes its way.
•On Saturday afternoon the John Hay dame
journeys from Crow’s Nest to Bay-road
(North Sydney) to start an open-air affair
to help it. At the Coopers’ house—Minima.
The Army Service Corps is having a show
at St. James’s Hall this Thursday evening.
Proceeds to the same old object—the pur-
chase of little luxuries for Billjim.
There is to be a musical soiree at Leonard
Dodds’s at Darling Point on July G. Funds
go to the French League. Tickets 55., and
then you must get the lady of the house
to send you an invitation. Roland Foster
is arranging the programme. The Conser-
vatorium contributes Rosa Alba and Jessica
Cummings.'
When Professor
David got too rest-
less to sit down
before students’
exam, papers any
longer, he made up
his mind to get to the
F ront “somehow.”
That’s how he felt,
too, about an Ant-
arctic expedition a
few years ago.
“Don’t be a goose,”
said his wife on that
occasion. Bu t he
went all the same.
This time the Missus
didn’t try to block
the way : she saw her
only son and game
old husband off to
the war without a protest. Westralia
was sending a mining corps, and David
thought N. S. Wales might have a go at
Goliath in the same way. So, chiefly through
his initiative, a local mining-camp got into
training. Then they sailed away. For
a year very little was heard of the soldier-
geologist, except as to his thrilling espapes
in various tunnelling exploits somewhere in
France. Now comes the news that Austra-
lian sappers and miners, after 12 months’
toil with British experts underground, saw
Messines Bidge go up in flames and fury.
Here is Judith Fletcher’s photo, of the
Sydney leader of the moles.
Douglas Mawson, you remember, was one
of the old Professor’s curly-headed boys. His
mother died last week in Sydney. There’s
another son hereabouts, a doctor at Campbell-
town.
The long scarf that comes nearly to the
hem of the skirt wipes up the teacups
at four o’clock. Two damsels in black, with
yards of floating green drapery, had a busy
time keeping the verdant silk off their cake
crumbs the other afternoon. Still the
nymph-like effect is worth while— if the
wearers have willow-wand waists.
For Australia Day women tore off seal coats,
lings and brooches, and gave away every-
thing except their best hats (the only femi-
nine who can spare her‘Sunday millinery
is getting fitted for a halo), to he sold under
the hammer. They are now examining
household gods in view of France’s Day auc-
tion. Hubby may come home to sit on the
ice-chest, or carve the evening meal from the
summit of a packing-case, the missus is
getting so “worked up.” "Thousands of chil-
dren in the north of France,” said. Miss
Gurney the other day, “are livid and emaci-
ated from chronic semi-starvation during the
past awful year.” So Mrs. Subbub, at a
recent gathering iu the Town Hall < the
McMillan dame in the chair), took a secret
oath to sell anything she can lay her hands
on to swell the funds on July 13.
Notice that Will Ogilvie, who wrote “Fair
Girls and Grey Horses,” was described as
of “England” at the foot of recent Bulletin
verse? He has been leading Dobbin on a
Devonshire farm, while his wife runs a local
sewing-guild for the lied Cross.
The Red Cross means to turn an honest
copper or two by tennis on the Double Bay
courts next Monday. It isn’t exactly Prince
o’ Wales birthday, but the holiday for which
that is the flimsy excuse. *
The War Chest Depot is getting
100.000 pairs of socks and more. .Mean-
while. they come in avalanches—2o,ooo
arrived within 24 hours. Climb a
narrow stair to the big room in Eliza-
heth-street and you get among moun-
tain-peaks of purl and plain. The casual
caller Ims to step warily, for the depot has
the bustle of a railway station. Here a
porter’s hand-trolley brings along a load of
stuff, a war lady giving the necessary im-
petus. There, cutting-out. tables have an
orchestra of snipping scissors. And at side-
tables busy women contrive —goodness knows
how—to tackle the type machine or the
handy inkpot.
The Anti-Shouting angels are winding up
miles of names on garden-hose reels. Hav-
ing caught your hare the next thing is not
to cook it to rags. So the 80,000 signatures
are being put snugly and safely to bed in
the cheapest nests inventive woman could
suggest. The last signature will go down
on June 21.
You can’t hold back the lads who want to
have another whack at Fritz. Lieut. Hollo
Williams, a stepson of Dr. Creed, recently
discharged as unfit, has surprised pessimis-
tic friends and returns to the long Front.
He warbled lustily at last week’s Red Cross
produce-workers’ afternoon. Their stall on
July 13 was the object of the party. Goos-
sens rushed in for five minutes to sing the
Marseillaise, and the affair was a howling
success.
The Voluntary Workers’ Cafe (Warkon
Buildings, Eliza beth-street—-it used to be
Holland House before the new owner in-
flicted on it the name of his Bananaland
station) sets its hooks to catch special
attractions at lunch-time. This Thursday
Ada Reeve puts on cap and apron to take the
order for chop one, so there’s likely to be an
early-door queue.
There must be plenty of money left, in
spite of the twin income taxes. Velvet is a
positive obsession with ordinary womenfolk
this winter —not the shiny cotton black ’teen,
but the rich pile itself. Made with decora-
tive motifs of wide silk braid in a rich plum
shade, a frock of this kind (or in black, if
you like it better) is a good advt. for plenty
of money.
Don’t forget that gala matinee for France
in the Tivoli on June 26.
A “Tommy Cooker” concert is to happen
in tile Town Hall some time in July. Hon.
organiser Eslick and hon. concert manager
Oswald Anderson are in charge. Of course
you can guess who will collect the Cookers
at the Front.
The late Matthew Harris’s father came
to Australia about the year 1542 to inherit
a part of the big estate left by his relative,
'John Harris. John was a surgeon’s mate
who arrived with the First Fleet and subse-
quently got large grants of land,, the Ultimo
estate being one of them. Ultimo got its
name in a peculiar way. The surgeon's mate
was summoned to a court-martial, or some-
thing of the sort, and the summons gave the
date as “ Ultimo.” John made a
gibe out of this, and the story got so well
known that the name stuck.
Nelson Illingworth threatens recitals for
the winter season, beginning July 16. The
Conservatorium houses song-cycles by Schu-
bert and Schumann.
The air throbs with preparations for
France’s Day. On this Friday morn there’ll
be a meeting at the Town Hall to talk about
a lhatinee ball. Rose Lyons is hon. organiser.
Local Nightingales are in a flutter over
the news that more nurses are wanted for
British military hospitals and service abroad.
Numbers of qualified nurses are willing to
give up lucrative work here and tend the
men who fight for us. But they are hum-
bugged fearfully. You put your name down
and are accepted, and it’s months probably
before you are called up. The “calling up,”
by the Avay, means, even for the most experi-
enced woman, taking pot luck in a local
base hospital and going through an official
mill. You see, nobody is supposed to know
a thing about anything unless the Defence
Department has clone the teaching.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


n ullUlS
7
%
'I
|\
A
' §
<?A ;/'//,y/SJstX/Zf^^,
if#!
9
m
77
m
m
•¥
8 &>
rs
'“winy
s
../
""////
3
5
P%
L r ~in/\
%
K
v 5
SB^<
N
How do you do ?Of course you recognise me again at once—B T. H. Mazda, Esq.,
the champion of economy and the enemy of gloom ! I want to introduce you to
my American Cousin—Mr. G. E. Edison—he’s a rival lamp, but such a leading
light that he only inspires admiration. Cast your eye on the rest of the G.E.
family. GEorgie Iron and GErald Radiator. One receives such a warm welcome
from GErald, that he is ever popular among both sexes—always clean and homely
and at hand whenever wanted —just as popular, in fact, as GEorgie Iron is with
the ladies. Now, GEorgie is the Ladies’ Man,
smooth —swift —simple—an adept at smoothing
away “wrinkles” and banishing discomfort!
A sure distiller of optimism, and an inhabi-
tant of most modern housewives homes.
Should you desire to make our acquaintance,
just visit us at
(Australian • General • Electric - G?
Wentworth ay Sydney, Oof Queen & Little Collins St Melbourne.
[Representing33rithh Thomson Houston, O? Eh&fand
% GENERAL ELECTRIC C 9, NEW YORK. USA.


v
simS
ixvmivti
TAILORING
Farmer’s Correct Clothes Service
shows the superiority that has been attained in
designing and tailoring a smart, serviceable suit
for the man of affairs. All the leading cloths
are represented in our stocks of Winter Suitings,
in Australian and British all-wool Tweeds, of
dependable dyes, including Bannockburn, Blarney,
Galashiels and Convoy; also New South Wales
and Victorian suitings equally serviceable.
SAC SUITS, £5/5/- and £6/6/-
SEND FOR PATTERNS.
Men’s Tailoring Dept., First
Floor Market Street.
PITT, MARKET
& GEORGE STS
■S Y D N E Y.
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (a IN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO.. SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
BUCKLEY’S
Annual
Winter Sale.
Get
Interested
in
Your Own
Appearance.
B2l6l. — “The Balmoral,” one
of our many designs, liberally cut
and perfectly balanced.
Sale Price, 49/6.
Better Qualities —
Sale Price, 68/9, 77/-, 82/6.
GOOD VALUE
in
GOOD CLOTHES
when they are
"BUCKLEY’S.”
You can easily ORDER BY MAIL.
Give height and chest measui’ements.
BDCKIWI NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, June 18, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.—
The dreary wet streets were livened up on
Thursday by the G.-G.’s procession toward
Parliament House. The potentate carried
his broom on his cocked hat and wore scarlet
and white feathers—a strange sight in these
plain khaki days. Lady Helen smiled and
bowed to both sides of the street from under
a hard little black pot hat which bloomed
with a circlet of pansies set in a row. Gent-
helps Iverr-Pearse and Conant livened their
khaki with scarlet trimmings and rode pranc-
ing motors. A fine square of mounted khaki
men went ahead and another square block of
the riders followed the petrol fumes. Postil-
lions, alas! have no place in a motor; the
gorgeous creatures must have ceased postil-
lioniug and gone into business since the war.
I think Melba sees the sun rise every
morning. Nothing happens too early for her
to attend. Her latest morning sprint was
from Coombe Cottage to the 10.30 opening
of Parliament. She brought the Lady Susan
along with her, and Willie Kelly escorted
them both to seats of honor. At half-time
Defence Pearce came along and mur-
mured a few platitudes, and Billy Hughes
was presented humbly.
Melba had a trying moment when little
Dr. Maloney began “God Save” on a fear-
fully high note and was too proud to start
again. The other members who tried to help
him out never sighted the right key either.
There was no echo of Melba’s golden notes
in the confusion.
“Nice-looking girl” was the general com-
ment when Associate Nancy Isaacs meekly
followed her father the Judge into the House.
Mrs. Isaacs looked on from the strangers’
gallery.
Prime Minister Hughes, in his new cut-
away coat, was the tailored success at the
opening of Parliament. The author of “The
Case for Labor” will now proceed to write
“The Showcase for Phewsion.*’
Actor Cyril Maude was given a welcome
at the Savage Club on Wednesday. On
behalf of the tribe, vice-president Percy
Cook (John Madden being ill) invited Maude
to come into the garden of their hearts, so
to speak, and have a drink. Unfortunately
a drink does not mean all it should to the
comedian, as some months ago he underwent
an operation which has deprived him of all
sense of taste and smell. But lie still has
a sense of humor and is an entertaining
speaker. His old-established manager, Fred
Turner, obliged with a number of stories
(only some of them have been repeated to me),
and savages Bert Bailey, Loch Fraser and
Freddie Newman contributed to the general
liveliness. Cyril Maude is an old Charter-
house boy, and was pleased to find another
in the austere person of Teddy Holroyd, a
committeeman hnd foundation member of
the club.
Cyril Maude had a bumper house for his
first night in Australia, and a satisfactory
number of late-comers were turned away.
Mrs. Billy Hughes glowed in fuchsia colors
and furs. Melba was resplendent in black
lit with diamonds; she wore a tiara of
matched diamonds set in a semi-circle, with
a diamond osprey rising nearly a foot into the
air. Lady Susan Fitzclarence, with her
hair exquisitely curled, sat in the circle,
attended by George Armstrong. The Charlie
Mitchells sat within coo-ee. Mrs. Leslie
Stuart wore a pale face and a pale ivory
dress with a streak of pink tulle across the
shoulders. She has been chief nurse to her
sick husband for many weeks. The Percy
Stuarts had a party, and George Allan was
in it. Mrs. Tommy Reynolds bunched her
fair curls into *a blue snood, and wore a
muffling fur coat. Little Mrs. Jowett, in
tucked criss-cross tulle of all-black, kept her
company. Cunningham, of the Argus, was
there with his lady in silver and lace. Editor
Schuler, of the Age, put in a rare appear-
ance. All the big theatrical guns were gath-
ered together from Sydney and Adelaide.
Hugh Ward boxed with the Tallis pair, and
Mrs. Tallis inhabited a beautiful black frock.
A south box was packed with pink—a recent
bride and her bridesmaids.
Maude made a spicy Irish speech at flower
time, and Melba threw her bouquet of wattle
and winter roses to him.
Dorothy Cumming, as the adored gran’-
daughter, blossoms in numerous lovely frocks.
She allures visitor Jarvis in silver tissue
with a turquoise sash. Then she gets ready
to motor up to “Lunnon” by wearing Robin-
Hood green with a great square collar of
sable. She repents of flirting in a fascinat-
ing frock of ivory weighted down with heavy
black seal, and she wins her diamond from
Jarvis in an early-morning n6alia6 of amber.
Amber is the color for stage undress at the
moment.
If there are any Happy Moments Day by
Day in the life of dyspeptic W. M. Hughes
he must have had one of them last Saturday
when he was about to sit down in Melba s
box to see “Grumpy.” He certainly got a
great reception from the side of the house
that could see him —a warm and sudden
burst of recognition. Certainly this time
Little Willie had two great points in his
favor. It was Melba's box and he was late
in arriving. The Queen of Song had already
warmed the spot with notoriety, as it were.
A thousand eyes were looking for somebody
else to enter, and lo! William was the One.
A mummer, under the same circs., would
have come late on purpose, and the differ-
ence between a star ac-tor and Hughes in his
favorite Win-the-War character is not so
wide tljat the Premier can escape the soft
impeachment. Anyhow, a glow of satisfac-
tion suffused his dome of intellect when the
applause came, and remained with him all
the evening. Or was it sunburn?
The G.-G. and Lady Helen had Cyril
Maude to dinner on Sunday. Melba was
there also —-she was week-ending at Govern-
ment House. Captain d’Erlanger and his
wife (Adelaide visitors) also drew in their
chairs, and jolly little Lady Doris just got
home in time from her N. S. Wales jaunt.
Every rich apostle of Thrift had her own
way of showing that she was practising as
well as preaching. The widow Staughton.
who is embarrassed with wealth, campaigned
always in the same liat, a big black umbrella
shape, of pronounced dowdiness. With this
shield she felt immune from all acid com-
ment on furs and laces. The chief topics of
the speeehmakiug dames were darning and
methods of preserving stockings and gloves.
The wretched poor were advised to darn
fresh feet into half a sock and then adji a
stocking “top.” Then the expert would go off
to a bridge gamble and bewail the fact that
her new mole silk stockings cost 1 (is. 9d.
At one of the finals, in the Austral Salon,
the most eloquent speaker was the wife of
a big tradesman. She fairly thundered about
the wisdom of paying cash.
Yet, after we have finished poking fun at
them, we’ll have to admit that there are
dozens of these women who really do know
more about economy in food —and dress too
—than the average Merely Mary does, or the
average working-man’s missus either. That
is why lots of them are rich now. But,
mostly because they would never dream of
putting it that way, they are poor Thrift
campaigners. The only Thrift campaign that
will do much good will have to be carried on
in the schools.
One desperate woman, at her wits’ end,
took the forlornly-hopeless course of writing
to the Argus to denounce the Melbourne
draper for his villainy in helping to push
priced up out of the reach of the masses.
Complainant had three grown-up daughters,
she declared, and their dresses, which for-
merly cost only six or seven guineas, were
now 12 to 15 guineas. It seems hard, of
course: but there is a harder time coming,
and the only thing for the masses to do,
apparently, will be to cut out the fur-trim-
mings and silk-linings and etceteras which
go to lift a five-guinea rig up to 15 guineas.
The Workers’ Educational Association,
which picks up crumbs of culture at Mel-
bourne Uni., is now well into its second
year. Members seek their ration of brain-
food on Saturday afternoons, when various
professors and other agitators serve up tasty
fragments of knowledge in pleasant sur-
roundings. There was a regular jamboree
last Saturday, with three hours of discus-
sion in the afternoon, followed by an 18-
penny bun-worry and an entertainment pro-
vided by Prof. Laver and his trained song-
and-piano artists, with Prof. Osborne lec-
turing about his last trip to England.
The Italian Red Crossers are to have a
tea party in the Australia on Saturday, the
last day of June. There will be some ex-
cellent., music.
All the Italian Red Cross parties are to
lead up to an Italian Button Day, billed for
July 6. Gaud Mayor Hennessy and his lady
are doing their social best and working up
a big Town Hall meeting to be held at the
end of this week. Mrs. Woolcott is organiser.
From “Rosna” in London: —
Dr. Eustace Black, son of the J. M. Blacks of
Adelaide, had an appointment in the North of Eng-
land lately. The only girl was Julia Dixon, whose
father is o.ne of the panjandrums of the Bank of
Liverpool. Dr. Black has been mending warriors
since the early days. He went over to France with
the R.A.M.C. in the first month, and had two years
of it, mostly in the trenches. Then he chucked his
commission temporarily, and medical officered a trans-
port to Australia and back. Now he is returning to
France, while his bride puts in her time nursing.
Young Bronner, son of the headmaster of the
Sturt-street .school, Adelaide, said the word at Cam-
bridge on April 7. He left Oxford to do some Hun-
chasing and was sent to an O.T.C. at Cambridge to
learn the job. Here Pauli Bartels, of Adelaide,
lately joined him—and there you are I
Melbourne has been entertaining Mr. and
Mrs. Greenwood, two young, good-looking
•English travellers who arrived here by the
So-and-so. He is an expert in drawing copper-
wire, and thes are on their way to Kembla
(X.S.W.). where the new industry is to be
set going.
Cyril Maude has been revelling in the
beauties of Coombe Cottage as Melba’s guest.
The star, by the way, was in Australia once
before; it was a health trip that time, and
he spent four months. He finds now a
good many of the old-timers whom he re-
members and who remember him.
The Tom Rutledges (Western District)
have just lost their handsome elder boy,
Lieutenant Noel. He was killed in France
last week. Younger brother Foster, who
flies for his country, married a Manifold girl
a few months back in England. Two of
Mrs. Tom’s nephews fell in action lately.
Colonel and Mrs. Stone are at the George,
St. Ivilda. He's a big gun from Burma, on
long leave, and is seeing Australia for the
first time.
Lilydale galloped very gently at the local
hunt last Wednesday, to oblige the Lady
Susan, wjio made her first appearance in the
field mounted on one of Melba’s horses. It
was the Englishwoman’s third time only on
horseback, and she stuck it almost like an
Australian. George Armstrong has been
coaching her.
Sister Adelaide’s weekly confession: —
Australia Day—proceeds for the South Aus. Sol-
diers’ Fund —is to be on July 27, and on Tuesday the
Governor presided at a meeting: to arrange prelimi-
naries. Money is to be extracted by much the same
means as last year, and as the fund’s expenditure
for the 12 months has been £30,688, there is a
tidy hole to be filled up. An idea is afoot to boom
the war loan on the same day, by selling war-savings
booklets in the streets, with two 6d. stamps already
attached as an incentive to further economies.
The Army Nurses’ Club lunched 300 ministering
angels who flew through on Thursday. Same day a
detachment of French soldiers were entertained by
the indefatigable Cheer-Uppers, and there was barely
breathing space at the railway station in the after-
noon when nurses and soldiers, wattle- and fruit-
laden, went away. Incidentally, the Adelaide Hos-
pital, 35 of whose nurses have enlisted, is asking
the Government to make a general increase in the
pay of the staff, giving first-year probationers £2O
instead of £l2 a year, second- and tfiird-year pro-
bationers £2B and £36 instead of £2O, and charge
nurses £9O instead of £BO.
The Attorney-General gave the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals a pat at its annual
meeting, and announced his conviction that the
Society “had so educated public opinion that no
Government would care to refuse any reasonable
request for assistance.” Personally he had iai view
an amendment of the law with a view to more
humane methods of stock-branding. The Society
lias made Mrs. George Box, who has gone
from the secretaryship of the Queen Adelaide Club to
the same billet at the Quambi in Melbourne, and
who was one of the S.P.C.A.’s keenest workers, a life
member. The president, by the way, is Professor
Stirling, who appeared at this meeting carrying his
new handle —his first public appearance since it
happened.
Yardea station, north-west of Port Augusta and
one of the State’s best-known leaseholds, has
changed hands at £63,000, its new owner being
A. J. Mcßride, of the Burra.
The Conservatorium’s new violin instructor, Gerald
Walenn, arrived by the last boat. Amongst his
possessions are a wife and a Strad., the latter left
to him for his life by the late Mr. Rutson, a York-
shireman who took him in hand when he was 12 and
sent him to the Roj'al Academy of Music. At Mr.
Walenn’s death the fiddle goes to the Royal Academy.
At present it’s in England waiting till war risks
are over. A brother of Mr. Walenn’s was here with
Williamson's Opera Co. about two years ago.
A drenching night and the lowest temperature we
have had for nine years made no difference to the
attendance at Lady Galway’s lecture on Modern Lan-
guages on Tuesday evening. The issue of tickets
was stopped on Monday morning, and the Elder Hall
was packed. It was her Ex.’s first appearance after
weeks of sickness, and it was plain enough that only
pluck pulled her through. The size of the hall and its
bad acoustic properties made the mere strain of
an hour’s speaking no small thing, and about half
of the lecture was given sitting. The very gifted
lady has set a high standard for herself as a speaker,
but she quite outdistanced it this time. The Gov-
ernor and all the Uni. heads were on the platform,
a rather unique background, in this city at any rate,
for a woman speaker.
The Premier has come back from a trip to the
Murray with glowing accounts of the irrigation land
available for soldiers, and of the willingness of
present settlers to form themselves into repatriation
committees. Included in the Government’s scheme
is a canning factory, to take surplus products and
provide light employment for returned men unfit for
heavy work.
Dr. H. C. Rennie, who was invalided home about
nine months ago, after nearly a year with the
R.A.M.C., is to be medical superintendent at the
Bedford Park sanatorium for consumptive soldiers.
His father is one of the University staff; grand-dad,
a fine old Scot, was for a generation Auditor-General
of N. S. Wales.
Tenor Lois and his pretty wife, who cut
themselves adrift from the Gonsalez Opera
Co. and stayed on here, are full of extrava-
gant praise of Mel-boourne. Lois is being
rushed with engagements, and now Fuller is
waving a contract at him. As for Mrs. Lois,
sht? has been supplied for life with jewellery
by the music worshippers.
Bindley, of Bendigo, is becoming quitea
personage.. His Conservatorium concert (No.
22) was held this year in Melbourne at the
Masonic Hall, and scored a great success.
Daughter Daisy sang from Louise, and
pupils gave the seena and duet trom the
second act of "Traviata. lima 1 rime (a
young and vigorous soprano-robusto) duet-
ted .with Hugh Garrett from I agliacci ,
“wasf SfaXenongh
*® f " rnish halt » dozen
entertainments.
Max Selinsky, recovered from lus recent
sickness, gave the first of his projected five
violin recitals on Thursday. He drew a big
musical crowd who declared that lie was in
?ne of his best moods The young Russian
is temperamentally fitful, plaj ing at times
with magic and fire and at others with
merely measured technical skill. He is
threatened with a teaching job at Melbourne
’Varsity
‘
T . Dorothy Gumming, just back from the
S.A.. boxed at ihe 1 ink Lady the night
before she put on grease-paint in the other
show. She wore an art blue-green truck and
shrouded her bare arms with the very latest
cloak—it looked like the chintz cover off the
has tot all he,- plumpness
« lld 18 aesthetically thin. Diet. I suppose.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANANA.


Born 1820
—still going strong
V
*3
S '//
23
»
€
/S'
5
i
s.
57
<?
LEoa
*D
7
G £*ft
M
* You can take a horse to the water but you can’t make him drink.
That would not apply to the man who knows the merits of
‘Johnnie Walker.’”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd,, Scotch Whiskty Distillers, KILMARNOCK/ Scotland.


TRIPS TO THE
S
l M
8 mm
tr: :■ ' i
The Company’s
Mail Steamers
leave Sydney
every fortnight.
lavailable for
1/ SIX MONTHS.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY RETURN TICKETS TO CEYLON are now issued at the following
rates:- From SYDNEY .. Ist £46, 2nd £32' *
From MELBOURNE . . Ist £43, 2nd £3O
From ADELAIDE . . Ist £3B, 2nd £2B
From FREMANTLE .. Ist £32, 2nd £26 ,
examrdp & their disposal some delightful tours can be arranged. For
example, Sydney to Colombo via Melbourne, Adelaide and Fremantle, thence to Singapore bv P & o
rwwfn 1 “V 0 via Torres-Straits,'by-Burns, Philp or Royal Packet Company, calling-at Java
Dai win, Thursday Island Brisbane, etc. - Fare, Ist Saloon, £B2. For further particulars apply '
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Agents, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 6321,
it
&
IheTOP-NOTCH
"ScotcK
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
A CONVERT TO THE CORRESPOND-
ENCE SYSTEM.
INSTRUCTOR: “ That will do for to-day.
Come around again next week."
BATTERED PUPIL ( after first visit): “ Er —
I think, if you don't mind, I will take
the rest of the lessons by post."
“Wart”: Was introduced to a fine collec-
tion of fantods during; a stay at the local hospital last
Christmas—known to the nurses as “jinijam" week.
There was a cocky who had a herd of cattle pastur-
ing- in the ward. The nurses would leave the door
open and Pole}', or Strawberry, would be always
getting out. There were two bloques who saw Un-
common variety of blue devils, with pink tails, sit-
ting on the bottom- of the bed, and “lookin’ at me
with green eyes.” There was one chap who held
long conversations with his wife’s ghost. She gener-
ally appeared wearing a pair of sealskin wings. Then
there was a carrier who used to drive his team all
night. He would pick a time about two o’clock in
the morning to get his waggon tangled in a gate, or to
have a bolt. Very few patients remained asleep
after he had harnessed up. Another man, a bailor,
called the nurse “stewardess” and the doctor “skip-
per.” He confided to me that it was the first ship
lie ever had been on which was built of bricks.
“Te Whare” : At' least three of our birds
include cat-calls among their notes, viz, the satin
bower-bird, the cat-bird and the falcon-shrike. I
have never heard the latter two utter anything but
sounds between the growling and meowing of a eat,
but the bower-bird is a good mimic (second only to
the lyre-bird) and lias many strange notes. Both
cat-bird and falcon-shrike are uncommon. The for-
mer, though a member of the bower-bird family
(akin to the starlings), does not build a bower;
its rough nest resembles a collection of leaves and
bark deposited accidentally in the fork of a tree.
Its two cream-colored eggs, spotted and marked with
brown, are prized by collectors. Occasionally, but
rarely, one finds the falcon-shrike, strikingly attired
in bright yellow vest, greenish-grey coat, and cocka-
too-like crest of black and white, working over the
trunks of trees in open-timbered country and coastal
scrubs, in quest of insects. The nest is a duplicate
or 1 that of the white-shafted fantail, or “cranky fan,”
only about three times as large, and is formed of
fine bark covered with grey cobweb and shaped like
a wineglass with the foot broken off.
“Montalex” ; “Bromide” (B. sl/o/’l7 ) is
right in saying that the potency of snake-venom
cannot be judged by the rapidity with which it
knocks a man over. 1 should have made it clear
that, in all estimates of relative potency, identical
injection-conditions are assumed. It is within my
own experience that, when the snake-fang pene-
trates a vein, the action of the venom is greatly
accelerated. I once—out of scientific curiosity—
allowed a bullant to sting me in one of the super-
ficial veins on the bark of the hand. I knew to
some extent what to expect, but I hadn’t thought it
would take me a week to get clear of the effects of
that infinitesimal drop of formic acid, placed directly
into the circulation. As for potassium-permanganate,
I have always advocated its use, though of course
it is only an antidote to the extent that it is a
decompositive.
* * * *
“Country Ped”: This is my epistle to the
mouse-haunted. Build a mouse-proof chaff-house of
corrugated iron. Put some freshly-cut chaff in it.
Carelessly leave a long gangway of wood leaning
against the wall and touching a wall plate. Go to
bed. In the morning get a trough of water, place,
it close against the door, and enlist all hands as
assistant-murderers to stand round the trough. Then
open tiie door and commence the drive to the sea.
For tallying purposes remember that 800 drowned
mice go to a kerosene tin. The inventor of this sys-
tem filled 20 kerosene tins the first time, and three
next time—say 21,000 mice in two nights!
“H.V.E.” : Governor Phillip’s crowd are to
some extent responsible for our somewhat tangled and
non-illuminative bird-nomenclature. Yet these early
(and in many instances, unwilling) arrivals struck
some bird-titles which have stuck, and are likely to
stick. For instance, magpie, robin, wagtail, blue-
wren, curlew, eagle-hawk, and blue crane for the
piping crow-shrike, a red-breasted
bird of the genus Petroica but no
relative of the European robin,
black - and - white (why not
“pied”?) fantail, superb warbler,
stone-plover, wedge-tailed eagle,
and heron have come to stay.
“Peewit,” however, has given way
to magpie-lark, and “Rosehill
parrakeet” has become “rosella.”
Most of the birds first mentioned
were common about Sydney, and
quickly attracted attention. Half
a century later Gould came along,
and after only two years’ sojourn
in Australia made about 600 Aus-
tralian birds known (or better
known) to the world. Gouid was
careful to give every name, abo-
riginal and other, by which many
birds were already known. Since
his time, however, the bird-men
generally—after commandeering a
large supply of adjectives—have
tacked them, hyphenated, on to
our birds so liberally that few
people have time to call any par-
ticular bird by its right name.
“Musketoon ' : Knock all those splinter-
cutters on the head and listen to this. At his Kil-
larney property, near Armidale (jST.S.W.), George
Nott felled and cut up a Queensland hoop-pine tree.
When on its feet the shrub measured 90ft. to the
first limb, and it produced over 10,000 feet of
sawn timber.
REASSURING.
"My good man, do you think that that awful stuff is going to queneh your thirst?"
“What! This little drop? Lor' bless yer, no!"
“Miner” : Re tables of weights and meas-
ures. Bill, the timber-getter, was telling his mates
about the comet he had seen the night before. Some-
one chipped in to ask where it was. Bill said he
reckoned it was about 15 and a half axe-handles
from the moon when he saw it.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: Johnnie Dodd was grave-
digger and caretaker of the cemetery at Yam.
Johnnie, who was quite 70, had adopted the ceme-
tery. It became his hobby. He devoted his life to*
it. He repaired the fence, excluded the goats,
painted the sign afresh every year, mended all paths
and railings, and had always a grave ready for the
next-comer. Furthermore, he invariably kept the
“next'’ in his mind’s eye. Yam was at this stage in
a state of hopeless decadence. Its mining had almost
entirely failed it some years earlier, and now there
were few men left but those who were too old to
drift. -The cemetery, as Johnnie’s private inheri-
tance, alone retained the comely order that had dis-
tinguished its public institutions when Yam owned
a council of its own and Johnnie Dodd was its
mayor. Now, Johnnie was a little, hard, old, wire-
haired terrier of a man pottering all day long in his
cemetery, where his wife’s grave was, supported
mainly by contributions from sons abroad in the
world, but exacting his inexorable fee of five pounds
for every grave before deceased was permitted to enter
into occupation. In these later days Dodd had
mapped out his grounds, ticking, off a space for every
likely person in the district. These were lined out/
with mathematical precision, the initials of the per-
son with the pre-emptive right being nicely inscribed
in the centre with white quartz pebbles. This idea
was not very popular, but Johnnie knew very
definitely “which was who’s,” and when one graVe
was filled set confidently to work preparing the next
in succession according to a private list he had
drawn up, and which was stowed away in the
old cowhide bunk under his bed. The existence of
this list was well known, and the ancients of Yam
had a superstitious faith in its accuracy. Johnnie
himself believed in it implicitly. When he got to
calling in on any particular old identity and in-
quiring very kindly after his health, it .was known
beyond argument who was next. So accurate had
Johnnie’s judgment been that none of the old
people doubted. The man or woman chosen accepted
the inevitable, which frame of mind, no doubt,
accounted to a large extent for Dodd’s success as a
prognosticator. It had come to old Dad Wybrow’s
turn. Coming out of the cemetery after the inter-
ment of John Cochran, Johnnie had plucked
Wybrow’s sleeve and said: “ ’N’. 'ow’s this yer
wintry weather a-playin’ up with you, ’Enrv?” Dad
Wybrow stopped and stared at Johnnie. “This
wintry weather’s findirt’ me pertickler well!” he
snorted. “I’ll be at the buryin’ of your darned ole
carcase, blarst yer eyes!” He hobbled off a few
paces, turned back and shook his stick. “Sec if I
don’t, blarst yer eyes!” said he. Johnnie only
scratched his head and grinned. “Durnecl hard
a-dyin’, them Methody men,” said he. “Durned
unwiHin' fer Glory.” On a later occasion Dad met
him in a much pleasanter manner. “Good day to
you, ole Dodd,” said he. “Up seein’ ’ow I’m
a-dyin’, are yeh? Well, I’m fit ex a fiddle, ’n’ til
ex a fiddle I’ll stick. You mod a mistook this time,
Johnnie. You look yer list up again, man. Put
yer glasses on, Johnnie, ’r ax someone what’s better
at leadin’ nor you are.” Johnnie went from this
meeting greatly upset. He actually did fish out the
cowdiide trunk, and examine the list again. He sat
peering at that list for an hour, his toothless old
mouth set in speechless consternation. A decline
began from that day. Everybody noticed it. One
morning three weeks later they found him lying in
the half-dugout grave of his wife, on which long ago
he’ had set his own initials in white quartz. He
died within 24 hours. Only when the grave was
"NO LIFT.
THE SWAGGIT : “All right, yer cows! Mag
yer ’ump yer bfueys afore yer strikes
the pub!”
filled did Dad Wybrow' let liiniselt' go. The old fellow-
started capering arotnid his stick, chortling with a
monkeyish glee. “I done him!” croaked Dad Wybrow.
“I beat ole Johnnie Dodd 1 Saved my life, I did !” Do
hobbled to the grave, took up a shovel, and beat the
soil down a little harder. “Told him I’d help to his
but yin , I did, piped Dad \V”y bro\v. “An' I’ve done it.
When he was to Bal’rat over that Sunday I got into
his house, an’ I found the list, I did. An’ what
does I do? I scratches out my name what was next
doo for dyin’, an’ 1 writ in his! I writ in his!'’
(Continued on page 24J
THE ABSENT JACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The swagmen never troubled him
While they had strength to live;
They knew his fame, and it was grim
Ile’d give not, nor forgive.
.Caretaker at the Ten-mile Tank,
He’d “tackle ane or baith” —
A big man and an ugly man,
And dour was Mucklewraith.
The clouds had formed a lurid bank
That told of death and drought;
The drover camped beside the tank"
And turned his horses out.
The pallid moon was rising higher—
The long, hot day was gone—
The drover made a “bit er fire,”
And put his quart-pot on.
The old man came out to inquire
What private tanks were dry ;
The drover said (a little dryer) :
“They all are. So am 1....
And you are Mister Mucklewraith -
I’ve heard of you Outback!”
And then he added, in good faith:
“1 worked with your son .lack.”
“So you knew Jack?” the old man gnarled
In his suspicious way
(His form was tall, and gaunt and gnarled;
His beard was iron-grey).
“Yes, 1 knew Jack,” the drover said —
“I shore with him awhile.”
The old man stood and bent his head,
And watched the quart-pot “bile.”
“We’re shorter grub,” the old man said;
The goodwife’s gone for more;
The ration team is at the shed—
She’s drove in to the store.”
The drover never said a word ;
The whole thing was a bore—
With variations he had heard
The selfsame yarn before.
“So you knew Jack?” the old man sighed
(His mood was softened now).
“I did,” the droving man replied—
“ For six weeks, anyhow.”
lie pushed the coals up with his foot,
Not anxious to begin.
He took the quart-pot off and put
The tea and sugar in.
“So you knew Jack ?” The old man woke
As from a reverie.
The drover said “I never spoke,”
A tired man was lie.
He twirled the quart-pot once—just so—
To give the tea a stir;
He pressed some coals down with his toe
And placed the quart-pot there.
The old man might have “fiad a shot”
At football long ago— .
He raised his foot and kicked the pot
A dozen yards or so.
“That there’s the missus cornin’ back—
Come to the house,” he cried;
“No man that worked with my son Jack
Shall bile his tea outside!”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


Ws
\Z
w
“ORIENT”
Tweed -
Overcoats
45/-
Represent
Pre-eminentValue
Close and persistent study of
modern manufacturing methods
has evolved the well-known
“Orient” clothing, which we
claim is not only the BEST
AUSTRALIAN MADE, but
represents the SOUNDEST
AUSTRALIAN VALUE
OBTAINABLE.
Our claim is fully maintained
in “Orient” Tweed Overcoats,
constructed from good-quality
Irish and Scotch Tweeds, care-
fully chosen for serviceability
and newness of design. Mid-
and Dark-grey mixtures are
popular. Supplied in all sizes
at 45/-
Better Qualities —
50/-, 60/-, 70/- to 84/-
We Pay Carriage.
David Jones Ltd.
OPP. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
Leviathan Tailoring Reduced
for the Great
“Square Deal” Sale
The great half-yearly event that has made
The Leviathan famous throughout Australia
is now on. Thousands of bargains in Men’s
and Boys’ Wear are offering in all Depart-
ments. Ask to-day for ILLUSTRATED
“SQUARE-DEAL” CATALOG.
3 GREAT
LINES
OF
WINTER
SUITINGS
are being absolutely “thrown out” at
the greatly-reduced prices of
59/6.82|6.95
AND STILL ANOTHER great line
reduced while “Square-Deal” lasts.
Fox’s Navy Blue
Cheviot Serge, 79/6
Color guaranteed fadeless —by
Fox’s and The Leviathan.
i
ci
G
i
Write for Free
Patterns, Tape
and Home-meas-
urement Chart.
Order by Post. We Pay Carriage.
The LEVIATHAN
"For a Square Deal.” Melbourne.
Can Birtles
Cross
Australia
in
Seven Days?
H E F N 7f\ 'registered name
t! 11 AU FOR HEANS ESSENTJ
IWnT• F e R means ESSENCE
I he Great Money-Saving Remedy for
CO U CHS & cfoLD
I Pmtftf MiSt-S ®lO/
ms
mzmmm
U
mm
wmm&m.
Sls«*
-■■■■-■:
1
m
m
mm
FRANCIS BIRTLES (at the wheel) in the Maxwell Car with which he recently broke the motor record from Brisbane to Sydney, and in which lie
FRANCIS hopes to cross Australia (3000 miles) in seven days. The programme which he has set himself is as follows:-
Leave Fremantle on June 20, pass through Coolgardie and ICalgoorlie June 21, arrive Port Augusta and Adelaide about the 25th Melbourne on the 26th, dad Sydney .on the 2,th.
The present record stands at nine days. Mr. Birtles will be accompanied by his brother Clive and Mr. M. H. Ellis, ex-Editor ot the Brisbane Daily Mail.
MR. FRANCIS BIRTLES, the intrepid Australian Explorer, and breaker of long-distance motor records, carries
HEENZO (MEAN’S ESSENCE.), the great money-saving remedy for COUGHS & COEDS,.
And HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS, the reliable remedy for NERVOUS STRAIN,
, , ~ ~ .. . „„„ c i. A ,.. n ohnvc illustration. He carries the preparations themselves, and in a recently-written letter tells why.
lte does not carry t° n and HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS as his medical companions on his many daring expeditions, Mr. Birtles has paid a high tribute to
In choosing HEENZO HEANS ESSENCE) and HRAJ> IS is kinds of weather, and is often subject to extreme changes of temperature within a few hours. The result
the merits of these two Australasian 1., his fast day and mgM motm u g immediate use the most effective remedy procurable for checking colds and sore throats. For that reason
is that be He cannot of course, carry it in its diluted form, as he has to conserve space, so he carries it in the concentrated essence, and when occasion arises for
he adopted "RENZO S as ’ do soldier s on active service. In the home, however, a bottle of HEENZO (HEAN’S ESSENCE) is added to water and sweetened
it to be used he takes a few drops on uga o palatable cough and sore throat mixture is thus prepared ready for family use. A pint of ordinary remedies would cost at least 12/-. HEENZO
(HEAN’S^I^SSENCE^costs only' 1 2/-', by post 2/3. Money cannot buy a more efficacious remedy for Colds, Sore Throats, Influenza, Asthma, Bronchitis, Whooping Cough, Catarrh, Croup, and Sore
or OF NERVES, the remedy with outstanding features of merits is HEAN|S TONIC, NERVE NUTS, They are prepared by a dispensing chemist of 25 .vears’
WHLJN 11 JS> a . „„ pminpnt nerve snecialist who, instead of employing opiates or stimulants, such as are so frequently used in Nerve Preparations, aimed at re-establishing healthy
experience according to foimula ot an to nourish and not to drag the nervous system. This is why HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS have proved so successful in build-
nerve tissue through the bloo. breakdown and in counteracting ill effects from severe nervous strain. In the journey which Mr. Birtles is undertaking from Perth to Sydney he expects to be in
ing up patients sunenng I pm ■ . . . taking turn about at the wheel. The high nervous tension that will maintain throughout the period can well be imagined. Mr. Birtles knows
his car continually tor s^e “Icirat^sustain™ of nerve force to enable him to come successfully through the ordeal, and he has chosen HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS as being the
nrenaration a best calculated to serve the purpose. Read what he says himself
preparation Desr caicum Hote l Arcadia, Pitt and Castlereagh Streets,
M®. W. HEA. , Sydney, June 10, 1917.
Chemist. recent strenuous journey twice across Australia I have been feeling very much the ill-effects of malaria and nervous strain. On the last stage of the
Dear Sir, since A ane-Sydnev Record, and it is now my intention to make an attempt to break the Pertli-Sydney Motor Record. This will call for every possible ounce
journey I broue i enare my g e lf for the 3000-mile non-stop journey across the deserts of the interior, lam taking a course of Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts. Although space is
of stamina, anu, to p u some Heenzo (Hean’s Essence) as well, as I have found it invaluable in my previous journeyings. Faithfully yours,
valuable, 1 will carrj FRANCIS BIRTLES.
_ Annn OF HEENZO (HEAN’S ESSENCE) have written from all parts of Australia to say that it is the finest remedy ever used by them for ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, COLDS,
CATARRH INFLUENZA, CROUP/ WHOOPING-COUGH, and SORE THROATS. If you desire further proof of the medicinal value of HEENZO (HEAN’S ESSENCE) let it be your own
NUTS have written within twelve months expressing gratitude for the relief derived in cases of NERVOUS HEADACHE, BACKACHE,
-Small
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
accept


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
MEGGITT’S
UNSEED OILMEN
m
/AEG
PAR
L
B
vb
>!a
<S
7!
A
a
lit
U'
->w
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers, 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
Pigs, calves, heifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on a daily ration of linseed-oil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the butter-fat test by One
Point.
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
carry away all the prizes. Mr. H. McD. Livingstone,
.Rosehill Farm, Kingaroy, at the 1916 show won seven
first prizes with a pen of calves, and won the three
butter-fat tests with a pair of Meggitt Linseed-oil
meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD.,
y
*
“Main Shaft”: Is the little wil-warbler,
alias rock-robin, the only bird which prefers to build
his nest in dark places? I have recently been
examining some mines opened by tunnels in the
side of a gorge and abandoned for many years. All
along the drives, for upwards of 200 feet and in
total darkness, the loosely-constructed, somewhat
pear-shaped nests of the birds were suspended from
the “back/’ and their owners often emerged from
very unexpected places to question the intruder’s
business. The few old hands who remained in the
neighborhood told me the little brown fellows were
regular visitors at crib-time, no matter how far
underground the working places were. I have since
found the rock-warbler quite tame and sociable; a
pair oven attempted to build a nest in my office.
“Norseman”: Abdul Wade’s Wangantana
station, Wanaaring (N.S.W.), has the biggest num-
ber of camels congregated in one locality in Aus-
tralia, The tally is 700. Abdul has been hoosh-
taing camels ever since Australia has had any to
hooshta. When the railway got to Broken Hill he
sent out long strings from there; and he had been
working from the Bourkc side long before that.
Later, he tried to introduce (he untidy beast to
North Queensland ; but that was a failure.
* * * *
“Bibb”: Anent snake-bito cures, an alleged
remedy, current in the ’so's, was known as “Under-
wood’s Mixture,” and was concocted in Tassy. Under-
wood, seeing a' “stump lizard,” bitten by a deadly
snake, hurry away and chew the leaves and stalks of
a certain plant, made up his decoction frtfm the herb
selected by the lizard. Morrissey’s antidote is a
dark-brown fluid alleged by some people to
be compounded from the bulbs of the cun-
gevoi lily ( Colocasia macrorrlnza), which is a native
of N. S. Wales and Queensland. The aboriginals
father the young bulbs of this plant, dry them for
a time in hot ashes, pound them into a sort of flour,
and finally fashion a cake, which is then carefully
baked. While fresh the bulbs of the cungevoi lily
contain an acrid principle, which turns the skin red
if applied to it. The juice of these bulbs is
said to be an effective remedy for the sting of the
giant nettle, or nettle-tree ( La-portea gigas), common
in gullies on South Coast, N.S.W., and in Queens-
land; also for mosquito and other insect bites. The
term “cungevoi,” of course, has no connection with
the lowly marine animal of the same name which
is succulent bait for groper, blackfish, morwong and
many other fishes.
THE RETORT OBVIOUS.
“Why, hullo old (hie) man.’ Fancy meeting (hie) you! Come-an'-'ave-a-drinlc!"
“No, shanks. Just had one!"
AN INSULT TO THE GODDESS.
DAIRY FARMER, J.P.: “Y' say he insulted you. What did he call you?”
THE COMPLAINANT: “lie called me a Manky cow, sir.”
J.P.: “Then lie’s fined ten shillings for libelling th' stock”
“Wandi”: A prolific whelping-place of
dingoes is the dunes of the Diamantina, parts of
which are honeycombed with holes, for the dingoes
burrow in the sand much the same as the wombat.
Often the roof of a burrow is merely a shell of com-
pressed sand, and a horse stepping on .to it falls
through with a plunge. Where burrowed ground is
indicated no horse bred in the country can be
induced to cross it. The horse behaves similarly
in the matter of rabbit warrens. Between August
and November pups are dug out in hundreds, as
many as 40 scalps being obtained in a day by a
couple of scalpers. Most of the dingoes that have
been lately worrying the sheep-man in the north-
west of N. S. Wales are said to hail from this great
breeding-ground. They follow the water-courses down
after good rains.
“TeW.”: Both cattle and sheep relish the
leaves and seed capsules of the native hop shrubs
(dononcea ), particularly in bad seasons. I have
seen jumbucks, given plenty of room, keep in good
condition on the vegetable in a season when scarcely
a blade of grass was available. More important,
however, is the fact that the capsules make a ser-
viceable yeast and light beer of good quality. Inci-
dentally, a palatable beer can be brewed from
common nettles, while the tender tops of the young
plants are reputed not only a good substitute for
spinach, but a blood purifier which the boil-plagued
bushman may use in place of his nauseous decoction
of brook lime (hyssop) and Epsom salts.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: Will sheep-dogs kill sheep ? A
few years ago, at Moruya (N.S.W.), a butcher
claimed £2O from a sheep-dog owner for jumbucks
destroyed. Two alleged experts assured the Court
that sheep-dogs wouldn’t molest sheep. Case dis-
missed. Later on, at Mittagong station (Riverina),
I saw manager Sissons shutting a slut up at night.
Asked why, he said, “The bally thing might get
among the sheep, and kill some.” I told him that
sheep-dogs wouldn’t kill sheep. He laughed.
“Silas Snell”: When Willard's Variety
Entertainers went to pieces at Bullfoot, the Pasco
Brothers decided that, after • all, there was more
money in graft than art, and accepted billets at the
puddlers by Pea Creek. Six men took over the big
slab barn at Creswell's, and batched there, Tim
Cronan among .the rest. Tim was a bearable man
but for two serious defects, a proneness to inebria-
tion and a passion for theological argument. At
some time in some way he had picked up certain
quaint ideas bearing upon the theory of reincarna-
tion, and he would harp on the subject till all was
blue. This set’ the boys meditating revenge for
long boredom, and the administration of an effective
lesson. One Saturday night Tim came home from
Jonathan's at The Fork, speechless, pitched on to
his bunk, and was dead to tire world. Then the
Pasco Bros, fished out their old trunk, and got to
work. They shaved Tim clean, they carefully wal-
nutted his complexion, gave his eyebrows an upward
lift, and almondised his eyes. They shaved his
head, leaving only a patch of natural wool, into
which a long pigtail was woven. Then Tim was
dressed in a Chow suit of blue dungarees, Chow
slippers were put on his feet, and ho was carried to
the hut of Sue Kit, at the camp of Chinese fossickers
on Brandy Flat, and left there. Creswell had
that day engaged Sue Kit as cook. To Sue Kit on
Sunday morning the conspirators"presented Cronan's
best suit and Cronan’s hat and boots, per-
suading him to don them at once. The
awakening of Tim Cronan in the Chow camp
on Sunday morning was a stirring event. Tim
came out of Sue Kit’s hut into the sunlight, liter-
ally walking around himself in his bewilderment,
looking down at his clothes, handling the offensive
pigtail, and feeling his whiskevless face in pathetic
perplexity. He was still somewhat under the
influence of Jonathan’s benzine, but sober enough to
appreciate the fact that a great calamity had come
into his life. The Chows, w T ell primed by Harry
Pasco, sat about in the sunshine, babbling amiably.
Tim advanced to these. “Say,” said he timorously,
“would you moind telling me who I yam ?” Kip
Fit answered him in eloquent Chinese. “But who
am I?” asked Tim impatiently. “Wha’ for?”
answered Kip Fit. “You Sue Kit all li. You go
makee dlain,” and Kip Fit gave Tim a kick. “Wliat's
that?” gasped Cronan in a small, awful voice. Kip
Fit offered him a shovel. “Go makee dlain,” he
said, and kicked Tim again. Meekly, utterly
bewildered, Tim took the shovel, and started to dig.
Suddenly he uttered a yell of mortal anguish, and
ran for the creek. On his knees he gazed woefully
at his reflection in a clear pool. Then with an even
more poignant yell he started up and made for home.
By the way he met Hide. “Have yeh seen Tim
Cronan?” said he. Hide shook his head. “Me no
see him long time, Sue,” he said. Off went Tim
again. At, Creswell’s he sighted Sue Kit in the
garden, Sue Kit in his clothes and hat, and he
CLOSE UP.
BILLJIM : “Yes, Grandad, they fired millions
of shells on to our trenches, and then
the coirs charged us in thousands .”
GBANDAD: “Why, it must ha’ been .well-nigh
as had as when the hush rangers stuck
up the old homestead.”
rushed him. It was a close thing for Sue Kit, but
the boys arrived in time, tore Tim off his prey and
held him back, fighting madly. “Don’t lave him
go! wailed Cronan. “For the love iv Heaven hold
him. lie’s the Chinaman that’s got me!” This all
happened years ago, but the effort was of no avail
regarded as a method of heading Tim off his faith
in his own peculiar brand of reincarnation. The
1 ascos tell me that a week ago they met Cronan,
grown middle-aged, telling a barfull of doubting
drinkers all about the time “whin wanst I was a
Clioineeman.”
LOGAN’S PLACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you follow the track from Delannit
You will come to a fork in the way,
And the path to the right will unfold to your sight
All the glory of sand-dunes and granite,
Set out at the foot of a bay.
But if you are tired of the splendor
Of shimmering waters a-race,
Let your feet wander back to the fork in the track,
And along the left path that is slender
And rough, you will, find Logan’s place.
The fields are still harrowed and waiting
The wheat that will never be'sown,
While last season’s hay has long since turned to grey.
The ground-larks are building and mating
In grass that will never be mown.
In the background a little, rough shanty,
Unfinished and most up to date,
Stands sad and alone in its plaster and stone,
And this, in his spare time, most scanty,
Young Logan was building for Kate. '
Having just read the top verses over,
I’ll admit they’re not up to much.
I intended to shunt Logan off to the Front,
To be drowned in a troopship near Dover,
And end with a sad sort of touch.
And Kate was to stand by a slip rail
Each night, with a tear in her eye,
And gaze to the west with a sob in her br?ast;
Or convulsively clutch an old milk-pail,
And murmur: “Oh, how could you die!”
But it seems, after fresh recollection,
It ends in a much brighter way.
Logan s aunt, it appears, whom he’d not seen for
years,
Pegged out, just to show her affection—
Left Logan a hundred a day.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
GEORGE R. HAMBIDGE.


\
S9*=
r m
Perfectly
Safe it
A
ft£
i
m
\
d
i)
/
M
<r*
o
r5T>
<^?
X
X
e«_*
-
£3
£3
S
£3
■%,t>
. , %
P X
x
rmXiA
.
m
■:W
*Rsb
*^y^V. ! ‘7
♦. %l» «> * #'***
X
S 3
ew - \
ThicKness
of Tread
of 120%
limousine
Cover;
pi*i»
*,»***»
****?**
Ever had a Bad Side - Slip ?
If you have, you know what a helpless feeling it is to lose control
of your Car just when it is essential that the wheels should hold
the ground. It’s an experience you don’t wish to repeat You
can escape this trouble by fitting
DUNLOP RUBBER
NON-SKID COVERS
They offer you SAFETY AND
SERVICE. Their scientific con-
struction ensures a DRIVING
AND A LATERAL GRIP
that will enable you
to drive over the
greasiest of surfaces
with confidence and
the minimum risk
of skidding.
THESE COVERS WILL HOLD WHERE
OTHERS FAIL. We have tested them, so
have thousands of Motorists, and the verdict
is—there's nothing like them for road grip.
even under the worst conditions. In addition
to securing your safety, these NON-SKIDS
give remarkable wearing results—ensuring
you all-round service at a price unapproached
by other tyres. You will be amazed and
delighted at the manner these durable
NON : SKIDS hold. TRY A PAIR!
STOCKED IN 15 POPULAR SIZES. ALL LEADING GARAGES.
* * * *
THE DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY, ALL STATES AND N.Z.


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That maKes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Colds but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to make any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on tHe CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS.
22
m
m
'm
8?
s
R
A
A
r
C 4)
gf&M
»<3
■
13.
li—^
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney. N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
Edouard de Reszke, whom lvultur has just
killed in Poland, was at an agricultural col-
lege in Silesia before he had serious thoughts
of the opera stage. In ’7O lie appeared as
the King in “Aida,” with Verdi conducting,
and thereafter he never looked at a hayfork
until he had saved enough to make a country
home in his unlucky native land. As it hap-
pened. it was right in the path of the gun-
music.
“Monkbarns”: Almost (50 years ago Bob
Lawrence and his wife, just-dead Carry
George, were on the high tide of favor at
Ballarat. He was a rival of Dick Cox and
Stuart O’Brien, and with them would only
be displaced by stars like Brooke, 11. N.
Warner, Stark or Clarence Holt. Lawrence
was thought fine as Raphael, in “The Marble
Heart,” with Mary Provost. Other princi-
pal ladies of the hour included Kate O Reilly
and Kate Warde, sister to Con Warde,
whose son is a Victorian M.L.A. Carry
George, at Ballarat, was prime favorite in
juveniles, and as comedienne she made
“Bachelors’ Buttons” a delightful farce. The
Lawrences hardly got a proper show in Mel-
bourne. He was Joseph Surface, in “School
for Scandal,” at the opening of the Royal
Amphitheatre (late Astley’s, and ultimately
Princess Theatre, so named by Alexander
Henderson). Towards the end of Barry
Sullivan’s time in Melbourne, Lawrence had
an engagement with him; and both Law-
rence and his wife were prominent in
Madame Celeste’s season at Coppin’s Ilay-
market.
Sid Witton, brother of the Witton who
found trouble in 1900 with Morant (“The
Breaker”) during the Boer War, received
an inquisitive bullet into his system while
doing his share of the Big Job. The missile
entered his right breast, passed his lung,
missed his heart by a decimal, slipped round
by his left lung, and embedded itself in the
flesh close to his left ribs. It should have
killed him; but it left him with enough life
to successfully run a picture-show in Kor-
rumburra (Vic.).
“Fax” in gentle protest: —
Theatrical criticism in the Melbourne dailies
grows unconsciously humorous alike in censure and
in praise. An Argus notice of a farcical comedy at
the Royal started off with this pompous piffle:
“When an author is content to allow his play to go
into the world entitled ‘A Little Bit of Fluff lie
marks his ambitions fairly clearly.” But if the
critic were asked to explain why a popular
slang term for a feather-headed girl should not serve
as a title he would be cornered. In H. A. Jones’s
play, “The Bauble Shop,” a Prime Minister is
warned, that “It isn’t immorality that ruins a man,
but one of those damned silly things that all of us
do and only one man gets found out in.” What’s the
matter, then, with “A Little Bit of Fluff” as a
title for a story of a clergyman’s undoing? Inci-
dentally, it is certain that when Cyril Maude opens
at the Royal the Argus will not scoff at the author
who allowed his play to go forth into the world
entitled “Grumpy.” So much for the humors of
censure. Now for the absurdities of praise. Mel-
bourne Herald picked out two gems of melody from
“The White Chrysanthemum.” “At its best,” it said,
“in items such as ‘This House We’ve Come to Search*
and ‘Three Bad Boys,’ Mr. Howard Talbot’s music
has much of the sprightliness of Sullivan’s comic
ditties” (as though ditties were music and Sullivan
wrote ’em). Also the Age picked the same two
musical numbers as having “something of the snappy
Gilbert and Sullivan atmosphere about them.” Well,
perhaps they had; but the music was not by Howard
Talbot. They were interpolated item?. Barry
Lupino faked up the words, and Keers, musical con-
ductor at Melbourne King’s, supplied the melodies.
It is always dangerous to credit the nominal composer
of a musical comedy with any particular melody that
is sung in it.
“Silas”: I defy anyone to ring-in as curi-
ous and unexpected a theatre as my friend
Ayrton struck at Miners, when doing the
Vic. “smalls” with a packhorse, a portman-
teau of films of the vintage of 1915, and
other appliances necessary for projection m
a district where-electric juice is not always
on tap. There had been a kind of sports
meeting at Miners, and it seemed probable
to Ayrton that £2O could be picked up here.
But what of a hall? The countryside boasted
no such thing. There wasn’t a barn in sight
that would hold £3. The sawmill cavern
came as a godsend. It was shown to Ayrton
as the Eighth Wonder of the World. Here
an old buried bed of sawdust had been
burnt out (it was 18 months burning),
caking the soil above into a roof a foot and
a half thick and as hard as brick. Ayrton
put three men on, filled these non-licensed
premises with seats of palings, slabs, logs,
any old thing (kerosene-case front seats,
25.), brought off his show, and got away with
£22 11s.! ..
Niagara and Falls, a man-and-wife
comedy team lately on the Tivoli circuit,
went soberly to court in Sydney last week
to recover £2OO for alleged breach of contract
from Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Their grievance was that the management
had “laid them off” too much. The friend-
liness of opposing counsel moved Justice
Sly to suggest, before evidence had been
entered upon, that the matter of excessive
and unremunerative rest might be peaceab
settled, and -so it was. Verdict by consent
for plaintiffs for £lOO and a shilling.
THE CHORUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fair damsels, dancing in the gleams
Oi limelight when the show begins,
Your curious creed demands, it seems,
A full confession of your shins.
You skip about or block the view
In 'many kinds of quaint undress.
[ wonder for how long could you
Take little off to put on less!
. To educate, as I suppose,
The blades who take you out to sup,
You range your figures all in rows,
And languidly they sum you up.
You are indeed a novel type.
I wonder, as you cross the scene,
If Eve had hated apples ripe,
Mv dears, where would you all have been .
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Do Oriel”: Apparently all country barb-
ers run a side-line. Mostly it is billiards;
but 1 have been shaved by razorists who
knew useful trades. In Fingal (Tas.).the
bootmaker obliged; in Omeo (Vic.) the pub-
lican sold me a long b'eer and then adjourned
to the saloon and removed my whiskers; in
Lowood (Q.) I was shaved by a man who
made a whistling noise with his lips the
while —he was a groom in liis spare moments.
But I hand the coin to the artist at Cowwar
(Vic.) who conducts a blacksmithing busi-
ness and heats horseshoes and shaving-
water in the one operation.
* * * *
“Ex-Dairyman”: I can beat “Double
Il.’s” prices for a cow. At Matthews and
Young’s sale on the Bellinger River
(N.S.W.) at the latter end of last year a
goddess brought £lOl. At that sale a dairy-
man paid £l5 for a one-week-old calf.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: Before me lie a few
pieces of rock —pink-and-yellow conglomer-
ate, crumbling readily under finger pressure ;
some of it dark-grey and brownish, much
harder rock, yet easily disintegrated. Upon
such stone as this has been built prosperity
for a few whites and a greater number of
Indian coolies, and opulence and sloth for a
decadent native population. All in regions
where, less than 40 years ago, the first white
settler planted his corn with rifle slung
over his shoulder, and where human bodies,
bled white to make them tender for the bak-
ing ovens, were dragged past his front gate.
It is such rock as this that has made the
smiling flats of the Fiji sugar country. From
the foothills right to the tops of the
lofty mountains the grey and yellow of the
outcropping formation has a curiously
cracked and corroded appearance. Dig the
ferrule of your stick into it and the surface
falls apart as easily, almost, as coagulated
ashes. Look down upon the vast squares of
pale-green fields, a belt of varying width
from the upper foothills to the mangrove-
fringed, swampy beaches where scanty clust-
ers of sickly palms wave. Look up and down
the coast as far as eye can see. Then look
upwards to the tops of the great hills, dotted
at intervals with grotesque, stunted screw-
pine, up to the fantastic finger-like outcrops
on the mountain summits, and you see how
the hills have perished and are still perish-
ing to form that rich country on the one-time
coral flats below. The process has been
rapid owing to the remarkable absence of
vegetation other than rank grass and sparse
pandanus on the mountains of the western
and northern portions of Viti Levu. Begin-
ning east of Sigatoka and extending west and
north, this feature is peculiar, to the Fiji
sugar country, and makes a striking contrast
to the verdure-clad hills and mountains in
the south-eastern part of the island. The
decomposing rock seems to allow nothing but
the vegetation mentioned to take root. Yet
when washed down on the coral flats and
mixed with decaying grasses and the fecund
vegetation there, it becomes the best sugar-
growing soil known.
* * » »
“Bad Australian”: Some time ago a crowd
of Yanks bought up a tract of land in Para-
guay, stocked it with cattle and imported a
Wild West show from Texas or Arizona to
do the herding. Then they sat down to
watch themselves grow rich. But they had
hardly got through their first box of juicy
Cubanos before they found that some kind of
a “bug” stung their animals, so that small
abscesses appeared on the neck and shoulder
or any spot out of reach of tail or tongue.
Very soon these abscesses began to run, and
were found to contain a hard, bristly grub.
They discovered that there was no known
remedy, except to seal the borehole with
gum. The cattlemen did this, and the “bug”
died and was sloughed off. Next, the awful
Paraguayan blowfly got busy, and their last
case was much worse than the first. The
Paraguayan fly is so bad that if calves and
foals are not attended to within 24 hours of
birth and the vulnerable parts kept dressed
with an insecticide, there is little chance of
them surviving. The smallest open wound
on an animal becomes a horrible mass in a
few hours. When the Wild West show got
busy rounding-up and treating the animals
affected by the uru, it also discovered cases
of carbuncle, tick and foot-and-mouth dis-
ease, as well as a kind of rickets. About
this time the men from the North saw why
fat beef is such a rarity in Paraguay.
* * * *
“Bunyah”: I agree with all “Lou’s” re-
marks re the minor villainies of gardeners
(B. 17/5/T7). I knew one who, while he
bossed a four-aci'e plot for Mr. Fatman,
induced a local shopkeeper to open a seeds-
and-plants department, and kept it sup-
plied with stock raised in Fatman’s
garden. As occasion arose he bought back
the plants he required, and Mr. Fatman paid
for them. Fatman noticed it at last, and
the sack was administered. His successor,
a canny Scot, cut the middleman out alto-
gether;' but that was the only difference
between them.
Fish-dealers in Melbourne complain that
there is now scarcely any sale for lobsters.
Yet some people are still saying that we
don’t take the war seriously.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Melbourne and Sydney publi-
cans have agreed that, the price of barrels
having risen, the glass must fall. “How-
ever,” says the Argus on behalf of the trade,
“the difference will not be more than a
mouthful.” That recalls the story of the
Australian ex-M.P. to whom came Randolph
Bedford in a bar. “Hello, old man ! said
Bedford. “Had your drink?” “Only a
mouthful,” was the reply. “I’ve had a
quart, too,” said Bedford.
* * * *
“Sonear & Yett”: After trying for a fort-
night, I managed to reach the barber’s
yesterday. I had been feeling as woolly as
a prize merino, and, when the shearing was
over, I told the operator how long I had
been waiting and how good 1 felt. “That s
right,” lie said ruefully, tossing his own
mane and sweeping my fallen fleece out of
the way. “I been trying to get a cut
ineself for three weeks. I’ll have to wait for
me next afternoon off, though. You're next,
sir.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian” from the spot: —
In Paraguay the butcher, baker and kindred robbers
bave no delivery carts, so the housekeeper attends
the market, which usually occupies the plaza or
central square.
With the exception of the meat stalls, which are
run by men, all the business is done by women,
generally the oldest, ugliest and most garrulous. The
butcher, armed with a saw and a machete, dumps
the carcase on a bench and, starting at the heels,
saws and slashes it into gobs about a couple of
pounds weight until he cuts out at the horns. He
never attempts to joint the carcase. The meat is
all sold at the same price, but the fat, which is
almost as rare on Paraguayan beef as on kangaroo
meat, brings a few cents more.
Pumpkins, melons, cabbages and such are sold in the
same way as the meat. The old ladies squat on their
hapnehes 'with their stock-in-trade spread on the
ground before them. Said stock usually consists of
a few handsful of mandioca starch or meal, half a
dozen mandioca cakes, a stick or two of raw man-
dioca and sugar-cane, a pound or two of peas, beans,
peppercorns, raw coffee-beans and the peculiar pink-
ish-colored hand-dressed native rice. Add to these a
few mate pots made from small calabashes, a bunch
or two of “medicinal’’ plants, five or six hand-
kneaded balls of chocolate made of crudely-ground
cocoa beans, mandioca starch and molasses, an egg
or two, and a few bundles of native cigars. Multiply
the lot by 500 and the Paraguayan market is com-
plete. The whole outfit, apart from the beef, is worth
possibly £l5 or £2O. The native cigars, which are
small and mild, sell at the equivalent of sevenpence
English for a bundle of 100.
The only persons who really buy anything are the
foreigners, and I have known three earnest German
housewives to clean out the whole market.
The Paraguayan woman does most of the transport
of the country, carrying everything on her head. Give
her a 20ft. plank, an empty cask or a beer bottle,
she claps it on her head, whatever it may be, lights
another cigar, takes a fresh grip on the baby and
trots off.
* * * *
Horace Plunkett started out in ’B9 to tell
Pat that what he needed was less politics
and more business. Horace addressed 50meet-
ings before a society could be got going, and
it took two years’ hard talking and much
cash (Plunkett’s cash) before a second was
formed. To-day there are nearly 1000
societies, • through which the “distressful
counthry” sells the Sassenach the best part
of £30,000,000 worth of products every year.
It’s up to the Australian wheat cocky to
shoulder the fumbling politician and greedy
boodler out of the road and start doing
likewise.
* * * *
“Foe”: One of the “indefatigable secre-
tary” type turned up recently in a country
town, gave an exhibition of indefatigability
at a couple of small Red Cross functions, and
then disappeared, leaving a vacancy where
the cashbox should have been. It’s a mean
trick; but, for Heaven’s sake, ask the be-
diamonded charity hostess and her daughter,
the furred flapper, who “give” a Red Cross
shivoo and then use up more than half the
proceeds in refreshments and frills, not to
have any spasms over it.
* •* * * #
“G.D.M.” (from ’Frisco) : Dr. Win. N. Bur-
ton, gasoline (petrol) authority of the Stan-
dard Oil Co. of Indiana and'inventor of the
Burton process of refining oil, predicts that
the gasoline (petrol) stocks of the U.S.A.
will be exhausted within a year unless meas-
ures are speedily taken to conserve them. He
contends that the production for this year
will be 2,500,000,000 gallons, of which
2,000.000,000 will be for home consumption
and 500,000,000 gallons for export. What
price petrol in Australia in 1919 —especially
if that country goes on doing hardly a thihg
to develop its own oil resources?
* * * *
“Rustler”; The Bendigo trams have
started a parcel-delivery system. On pay-
ment of threepence the co. undertakes to
deliver a package at any place along the
route. But occasionally the conductor for-
gets, and then the parcel has a long-distance
record that shames the thruppence.
In addressing his Methody brethren the
other day, the Rev. W. Corley Butler
remarked upon it as a singular thing that
clergymen frequently feel “called” to the
most comfortable positions :
PETER’S LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The worst-used man 1 ever knew
Was Peter Queen, of Sandy Blight.
Ilia wife, an indurated shrew,
Was on his heel from morn to night.
And if the old man’s tale was true,
Hung to his ear the whole night through.
1 asked: “Why did you marry Kate?”
lie sighed, and one big tear he shed.
“ 'Twas back in eighteen-fifty-eight,
She came to me be chance,” he said.
“The fact is at the mentioned date
1 won her in a rattle, mate.
“ ’Twas on the Fly at set of sun
I struck the house of Jimmy Bonn.
The cami> had rounded up for fun —
A raffle and a dance was on.
The tickets, 1 was told, would run
To half a quid, and.l took one.
“Kate was as tough as she is now,”
He sighed and groaned. -Said I: “Then why
D’ye take the lady on?” llis brow
lie scratched. “The truth is,l
AVas much taken in. 1 thought as how
The rattle was for just a cow!” •
VICTORIA. 1
SILAS SNELL.
A call from some poor parish comes;
The rev’rend person hears,
And with unseemly haste he pulls
His choker round his ears.
But when there are fat souls to save,
The “call” can’t be ignored;
The piping- of the -oof-bird sounds
A summons from the £ord!
VICTORIA.
H. O.


The Little
25 Miles per Gallon'
Here is a light, powerful, economical car that offers you every worth=while advant=
age found in the highest=priced cars. Its low price includes complete equipment.
• The new=series Overland is superior to any other car in its price class both in appear-
ance and performance
It excels in power—makes hills seem almost like level road.
In looks—the body is finished in a beautiful light grey.
In economy—what other car of its size and power will average from 25 to 30 miles on
a gallon of petrol?
In comfort —the seats are deep, soft and roomy. The rear springs are of the famous
shock=absorbing cantilever type. The tyres are 4=inch.
What’s more—this Overland is completely equipped. Not a thing to buy extra. You
get the finest Auto=Ute electric starting and lighting system, Tillotson carburetter, mag=
netic speedometer, one=man hood, demountable rims and practically every other accessory
found on the highest= priced cars.
Come in and see this new Overland to=day. Compare it with other cars selling at its
price, and judge for yourself which offers the most for the money. We will be glad to
demonstrate it to you.
All Overland Cars have High-Tension Magneto Ignition.
Complete Catalogues anti Prices on Request from—
GARRATTS LTD., 173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Melbourne .
MURRAY A UNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HE AT HORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
Willys-Overland (U.S.A.) Australasia Ltd., 352 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W


V. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Watch, jewelled
ucnt, gonimetul or nickel case, 20/-
lewellcd, 25/-, 30/-. Silver, £2, £2/10'-
Gold, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-
move-
Extra
Solid
A. Saunders.
mm
BA
V,
A. Saunders' Oct. Gold
Bracelet, strong safety
price, £3,
£2/10/-, £3/10/-
“Curb" Snap Padlock,
chain attached. Special
Other sizes, 30/-, £2,
£ 4/10/-, £5.
SSvm
* i! v
MaiinnS!
g'U^
•> ' f &
kj* tjv>
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled lever movement, compensation balance.
£B/10/-. Similar designs, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
ent.’s 9ct. Gul
Signet King,
20/-
Lady’s size,
12/0.
A. Saunders’ Pure
double cut Dia-
mond Cross-over
UiuK, 18et. Gold,
>.'B/15/-
A. Saunders’ Pearls and Red or Green
Stones or Turquoise Gold Brooch, 15/-
Solid Silver
£2
;A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade Lever
Watch, double case, full jewelled, ad-
justed movement. Nickel Silver, 30/-.
Solid Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £4, £5,
Gold filled, £3, £4/4/-, £5/5/-, £6/6/-.
Solid Gold, £B/10/-, £lO, £l5, £2O.
All guaranteed.
Gold Filled
£3
A.. Saunders' Oct.
Gold Wedding
King, 10/-
15ct„ 15/-
18ct., 20/-
A. Saunders' pure
double cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18et,
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Boat-shape
King, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders' Pearls and Amethyst or
Garnets Scroll Brooch, 9ct. Gold,
25/-
-4/ Saunders’ Pearl and Garnet or Amethyst
liar Brooch, 9et. Gold, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ pure double cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, £2. £2/10/-, £3, according- to
size of diamond.
!@HP!!OPsP
A. Saunders’ Diamonds and Red Stones Gold Bracelet,
Oct. Gold, 35/.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST FREE.
ALL ORDERS POSTED FREE.
A. Saunders’ Pearl and
Aquamarine Circle
Gold Brooch, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Tiffany 'Wed-
ding Ring's,
loot, 25/-
18c. i., 30/-
40/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring, IBet. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double cut Dia-
mond Cross-over.
Ring, IBct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Amethyst or (iarnet Brooch,
Oct. Gold. 20/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Bar Brooch, 9ct.
Gold, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway
Station).
A. Saunders' pure
double cut Dia-
mond Halt-hoop
King, 18ct. <!old,
£5.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Tablet Rinpf,
12/(1.
A. Saunders’ Pearls and- Diamond 2-Bar
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 253/0. 1 act., ,e 2.
20/-
Post Free
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Nickel Open-
face Keylhss Lever Watch. Patent ad-
justed balance, non-magnetic time spring,
dust- and water-proof cases, 207-
lligher grades, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
All guaranteed.
25/-
Post Free
mm
’■mmm
&
m
y*
Can
Stop that Husky Croak!
eilJI MC^a^septicTHßOAT
EVANS Pastities
Sore Throats quickly
yield to treatment which
removes the cause by killing
the germ.
Evans, Sons, Lescher& Webb, Ltd. London.
ORROCKSES^HORROCKSES
dsfg
| MADE FROM
FIN* SELECTED COTTON
FOR WINTER
sd
/deal'ficUrtic
WEARS better, WASHES better.
5
and LOOKS better than
FLANNEL
AT. DOUBLE*THE PRICE
SEE
"fIORROCKSES'”
SELVEDGE
[MORROCKSES'* horrocksfs
fgs
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Meurie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly's Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1 : - posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Beli/s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, sd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. . Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. San Dow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatcbford), rod.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Makf, Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
II- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
m
m
m
i
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING *
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and. old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
OOHSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6. ■
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1 /-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
I'3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made East. 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The AVaybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. &#" 1 Established 25 l'ears.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE MY STOCK CAN
BE COT FROM THIS Am T.
'Vrite for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS’ SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted, hi ew Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3' post. Dr'
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistky
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. 'lokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Sd„ 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted"
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pa-es cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance.
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs .(words and music
complete). 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
A DEPOSIT OF
17 6
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 lO
£875 O
For War Purposes only,
will purchase a Certificate for
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
Interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. %Uth March , 1917
H OR LICK’
MALTED MIL
*o*
For dispelling that tired feeling —for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. Horlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
|T«r IT AT THE SODA FOUNTAINBI
il
©
s5 2 = y ii l
» t M Mai nO “
S»_MAtTfO
J^KM
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the lousiness.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
g
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club ant! Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartment
may be secured separately by the day from .Is.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariif and all l’ar>
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :—Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.0.; Hon. E. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian
Knox ' Esq., Iv.C. ; Samuel Hordern, Esq. Consulting Actuary: Richard Teeee, E.1.A., F.F.A., E.S.S.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. 11. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
■U
b T
\ y (7
te*?
H-
Nr
S'
fffiii r' M
n
H IM®
'/'"■s="' x 7y:
« V. ;^-i(
&
£
£=s Si
"HIS MASTER’S VOICE GRAMOLA
—the Gramophone SUPERB— £6O.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
OTHER “ H.M.V.” MODELS
from £715/-
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET . SYDNEY.
The mart of superior
motor car^erot'ce
sf
Themarh of superior
pKotor ear'terutc#
50.8% Will Have No Other Car
THE experience of the great body of Hupmobile owners
backs up the widespread idea that motor-car economy
and the Hupmobile go hand in hand.
Real economy is not merely low operating cost, but low
maintenance costs —and there the Hupmobile leads. It
keeps out of the repair shop. It stays in commission, with
the fewest delays and lay-ups.
And that means quality in the car.
SO Hupmobile owners are satisfied. They expected
economy when they bought. They get what they'
expected.
And satisfied owners are conceded to be a pretty valuable
asset for any motor-car nianufacturer.
Our records prove that more than fifty per cent, of our yearly
output is sold to former Hupmobile owners who find our car
best for the cost.
BRIEF HUPMOBIIiE SPECIFICATIONS.
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater, sedan, and 5-seater and 2-seater with detachable winter tops. Motor: Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (32in. x s Jin.).
Transmission: Three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch. Rear Axle floating; type, spiral bevel gear. Cam shaft and crank shaft hearings bronze shell, babbitt
lined. Fong wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on 7-seater). Tyres 875 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 4Jin. on 7-seater. Electric
Startin'*- and lighting; ventilating, rain vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting side curtains; door curtain carriers; deep upholstery; speedometer; ammeter; robe rail, foot
rail and carpet in tonneau; non-skid tyres on rear; five demountable rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full set of tools. Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki
hood and seat covers at small additional cost over list price of car.
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Papier: s tn Ausiffilte find New Zealand —
I. PHIZ ACKERLE Y, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A, HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


HOYT’S PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—S to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-•
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6. *
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
CAE
A 1;
•»SSi
■ ,
Sve
Diggs
!«•••£
*i
Sr'
tOHOO^-"
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Disorders
of Digestion.
Catarrhal, Fermentative, Ulcerative.
Angier’s Emulsion exercises soothing, lubricating,
antifermentative effects throughout the entire digestive
tract. That is why it is so valuable in affections of the
stomach and intestines. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, fermentation,
catarrh, ulceration. It restores tone to all the digestive
functions and it promotes normal healthy action of the
bowels. Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-four years, it has proved its value in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The short and simple story of what lias
happened during the year to the Common-
wealth cashbox:
A surplus of £ 3,000,000 \vas carried forward from
1916. Ordinary revenue (partly estimated) amounted
to £ 32,576,300. This shows £35,075,300 avail-
aide. Expenditure (also partly estimated) ran to
£35,448,414. The surplus to start again with is
thus £120,886.
Which means that the Commonwealth will
have to set about securing an additional
£2,57.‘>,114 to make good the shortage of
revenue (or in the alternative spend tlfat
much less), and five or six more millions for
interest. By the time that lot has been
dredged out of the taxpayers' pocket, the
public will begin to understand what
economy means.
E. .T. Holloway, president of the Central
Executive of the Victorian Political Labor
Council, has tried to. explain in a printed
statement why organised Labor opposes Con-
scription :—•
The Labor movement all the world over has been
opposed to Conscription. It feels that under it
civil law would Tx^jiupplanted. by military law, and
with the death of civil law all the ethics, morals
and liberty that civil law represents would cease to
exist.
That is quite true. Ask Belgium. It opposed
Conscription. Germany didn’t. So Bel-
gium’s civil law has been supplanted by
German military law, and all the ethics,
morals and liberty of Belgium have departed.
Is that what the Australian Labor move-
ment aims at?
WILLING TO BE INSTRUCTED.
OFFICER: “Two-up seems to me hardly the
right thing for the Holy Land. Couldn't
you think of some better way of passing
the time?”
TROOPER: “ We're stuck, sir; but if you could
lay us on ter it I'd be willin’ ter make
one ter risk a few bob on it.”
Premier Holman is telling London that
he is there to see about aeroplanes. He
means kites.
It is time we made up our minds about it
one way or the other. Either strikes are
lawful and the recognised thing or they are
not. At present the lawbreaker has all the
best of it; for he gets a bit both ways. This
is about the last thing the law can afford to
•tolerate. And things are getting worse
instead of better. Within the last few days
two big union amalgamations have been
effected. In one case 11 bodies have formed
the Mercantile Employees’ Union of Aus-
tralia, at the instance of the Storemen and
Packers; in the other the Broken Hill miners
have thrown in with an amalgamation cover-
ing practically all underground workers in
Australia, bar politicians. The latter body
is openly and frankly militant, and boasts
that it can lay up every big coal and metal
mine in Australia within 24 hours. Let us
get rid of the current humbug. If we
either will not or can not prevent strikes
and lock-outs, then let us stop pretending to.
That merely penalises the person, employer
or employee who trusts to the law.
OUTCLASSED.
THE USURDKR: “No. It's no use, Nick. I
skull have to get rid of you. You ure
not fit even to black my boots.”
( “Send the hulks to sea !’’ is the latest cry.
Hut the responsible Navigation Department
should be indicted if it permits so much as
one coffin-ship to leave an Australian port.
We have gone quite far enough already. The
other day the little Meeiriderrv started
round the coast after being two years idle
•at Melbourne. She soon sprang a leak and
had to put back. Next she waddled in to
I'alen in distress and short of coal. By this
time it looked as if her name should be
Mcandavy. _ Yet that uncertain traveller is
a mere infant compared with some of the
old stagers which they talk of combing out
of the backwaters.
Anapsthctie administered by the Annus: —
. The French found thrift extremely useful to them
helping; them to pay their war indemnity after
IS/1.. \X o do not contemplate paying war indemni-
ties, but while there is a war of unprecedented eost-
lniess being- waged we cannot afford to waste
anything at home.
If defeat is not averted, it will not he for
ns to say whether we shall pay indemnities
or not. The nation which exacted an un-
paralleled indemnity from. France after 1871
is the nation that will dictate terms to us
it we are beaten. The sooner, therefore, we
consider the pleasantness (or otherwise) of
paying a war indemnity, the better.
The new junta has appointed Alligator
Johnson Speaker of the Iteps. and .1. M.
Chanter Chairman of Committees. Parlia-
ment is not invited to have a voice in the
matter of these jobs. As Sydney Tele-
oraph says ( 14/6/Y7), “This was a natural
division of the. spoils." Just so —the spoils
to the tricksters!
The war borrowings of the Commonwealth
havq amounted to £128.-816,814, and the
expenditure is given thus;—
1914- . .. £ 14,471,118
1915- . .. 37,423,568
1916- .. '51,207,434
Total (three years) .. £103,102,120
But the £01,207,484 does not include
£32,000,000 due to J. Bull for maintaining
Australian troops in the field, and now being
liquidated at the rate of £2,000,000 a month.
On the borrowings and debts incurred to
date the Commonwealth is astern to the
extent of the difference between £l2B 816 SI 4
and £185,102,120; yet judging by the way
money is being flung about one would reason-
ably think that John Forrest had just found
Ivalgoorlie and made the Federal Govern-
ment a present of it.
The Phewsion didn't worry about morals
or decency when it was snaring the soldier’s
vote any more than it did when it was out
after the votes of the people who stayed at
home. It ran an election paper, All . for
Australia, and across the top of it was
traded in large black type this bait: “The
National ("Ministerial) Government proposes
to raise £12:2,000,000 for the purpose of
settling soldiers on the land and to raise an
additional £30.000,000 for other forms of
repatriation.” No beastly argument was
wasted on Billjim—he was simply and un-
ashamedly promised a bribe of £82,000,000.
Current cable messages:—
Joseph Ward: “The way to win this war is,” etc.
Premier Massey: “I am satisfied that to win the
war we have only to,” etc,
\\\ A. Holman: “We are bound to win this war
if,” etc.
Several similar authorities: “All we have to do to
win the war is,” etc.
The Hun's poison-gas is good stuff—if imita-
tion is any proof of it.
. Tlxe A'ic. People’s Party
proposes to move for the re-
duction of some of the existing
Protective duties. It has- an
idea that the farmer doesn’t
want any population in Aus-
tralia—that it will always be
best for him to have his
market 12.000 miles away.
In case of war it is a speci-
ally great advantage to have
only a foreign market. For
one tiling, it prevents the
farmer getting more than one-
third the world’s-market price
for his crop. If he got the
whole price he would probably
die of apoplexy. Also, the
market being remote, the
grain can’t be shifted in case
of war; and that gives the
mice a chance. They would
starve otherwise, poor things.
Altogether, tlmn. it seems a
most suitable time for the
People’s Party to talk to the
farmer of (Ik 1 advantages of
keeping people away from this
country.
Just as well to remember
that Germany never yet talked
“no indemnities or annexa-
tions.” The anti-conscrip-
tionist who says we would be
as well off under German rule
might think better of it if the
Gorman rule began with a thumping cash
levy on the conquered race.
Last, week, under the Federal Arbitration
law, the members .of the Glass Bottle
Makers’ Union were fined £5 apiece for
striking and continuing to strike. Com-
pare that with the treatment of the coal-
miners when they struck, and the only con-
clusion possible is that when up against a
poor, weak little crowd the law is a lion, but
a mouse when it faces a strong, militant
army of workers. In those circumstances
who pan wonder at the steady disappear-
ance of the little craft unions and the rapid
growth of the industrialist section V
The N. S. Wales Government which col-
lected a small super-tax on incomes two
years ago and increased it last year,
announces that the larger tax will be im-
posed again for the current year. 'A super-
tax is essentially a special impost to meet
special needs. But the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment has no special needs that are in any
sense legitimate. It pays no part of the cost
of the war. On the contrary, it benefits very
largely by the war; for manufacturing and
trading profits have been increased by the
expenditure of millions of war loan and the
purchase of millions of pounds’ worth of our
wool, etc., at war prices. In view of this,
bad reasonable economy been practised, the
State, should have been able, not. merely to
do without a super-tax, but even to reduce
the amount of the ordinary tax. Sneaked
through under cover of the war,, the super-
tax really pays in part for the gross extrava-
gance of the'date Labor Government and the
scarcely more unrestrained, extravagance of
the present Government. The other day it
was announced that a business-man of high
standing would be commissioned to report
on the public service. What is far more
important is that three business-men of high
standing should be commissioned to report
on the . whole financial position and recent
and present conduct of the State.
The Vic. Presbyterian Assembly has been
hearing something about the manner of life
of some members of the congregation. A
woman with eight children lets rooms: she
has 10 rooms and 31 tenants. In another
place a father, mother, son (14) and daugh-
ter (12) live in one room. The trouble with
these places is that they are not slums that
can be demolished by the municipal authority.
In most cases the people are immigrants
who have brought their bad habits to a
country where a high level of wages is
officially insisted upon for the express pur-
pose of making it unnecessary for people to
herd in this fashion. That throws an obli-
gation upon Health authorities to see that
they don’t do it; and it ought to be the duty
of Labor Departments to see that Health
Departments don’t neglect this job. For the
offence of these people is. not merely against
health: it is against the whole industrial
policy of the Commonwealth.
From a front-rank Australian doctor
working in London : —-
If only it were possible to leg'-bite on the subject
of war babies for the next few rears, what a boon
it would be—what a great thing for our country I
We lift our hands in horror it such a sane sugges-
tion; jet here in London v.e are shutting our eyes
to the fact that part of our manhood is being ruined
beyond possibility of repair by tin- great diseased
multitude of women from other nations, driven from
their own lands by a wise Govei mnent desirous of
keeping its army free iron' disease! God help Aus-
tralia if it palters with the necessity of detaining
and treating every returned man who has this
plague.
What happened last week in the matter
of Christian Benzing reflected little credit
ou anybody, llenzing was to be hanged for
a most abominable outrage, and the hanging
was fixed for Thursday morning. Half, an
hour before the time he was told that the
execution was postponed. Further inquiries
were made, and (lie hanging duly took place
on Saturday. This was the very refinement
of torture and it was all due to the mid-
night arrival of a deputation from the Trades
Hall at the Acting-Premier’s home with a
rumor that Benzing wasn’t sane enough to
be responsible for his actions. That the
deputation should have moved then without
more evidence than it had was had enough ;
that the Government should not have fully
satisfied itself on the point beforehand was
worse. The inevitable comment now is:
,r Why, .this Government will even hang a
man without being sure that lie was respon-
sible for his crime!” If it wanted to play
into the hands of its friends the I.WAY. it
couldn’t have behaved better.
The recent police canvass of persons
entitled to vote at Victorian elections dis-
closes the solemn fact that while metropoli-
tan electors increased by 47.000 since the
previous canvass was taken a few years ago.
country electors added only 5000 to their
number. Melbourne, in fact, now has
430,769 electors, while the rest of the State,
including Ballarat, Bendigo. Geelong, etc.,
shelters but 889,070! And the position will
grow steadily worse unless we make life less
unendurable for the man on the land and the
country dweller in general. At present we
are busy squeezing him dry to make things
pleasant for city parasites. And Govern-
ments are the principal instruments employed
in doing it.
Under the Premiership of Peacock, the
mining man. there seems to be always a
danger of Victoria suffering further devasta-
tion from the dredging fiends. .lust now they
are applying for a lease of hundreds of acres
near Wangaratta, and there is a loophole in
the Act, of course, through which the dis-
trusted Sludge Abatement Board can push a
BACK-OF-THE-LINES COURTESIES.
OFFICER: “Fall?”
AVIATOR : "What d’yer think? Come down
for a spell and a look around?”
permission of the proposed outrage. Vic-
toria is not so rich in watercourses that
dredging ought to be permitted anywhere,
especially as the financial results are gener-
ally wretched. Last year 900 able-bodied
men were employed in producing £30,000 in
dividends, and the short-lived dredging plants
of the div.-paying companies had cost a
quarter of a million.
IT IS THE LEADERS WHO BETRAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We who have watched with hopeful eyes
To see our laud emerge in light,"
And stand in glory 'gainst the skies
To lead all other lands aright,
\\ hat have we seen but sudden fire,
And one man marking out the way,
Who seemed a moment to aspire,
Then trailed hfs banner in the mire?
it is the leaders who betray.
They come to us with shining brows,
Their hearts attuned to one true song,
Their tongues all eloquent to rouse
And sweep the lighting line along;
"llut ere the clearer course is traced,
In pride and dalliance they stray;
’I hey see soft luxury, and taste
Of sugared ease, and die abased,
It is the leaders who betray.
\Ve held them in our hearts a while;
We give them of our strength elate;
llut Circe hath a cunning smile,
Her eyes are dusk and passionate.
So, though the dawn flare rosily,
Comes not for us the radiant day.
A Judas must there ever he
For our fair Christ Democracy.
It is the leaders who betray!
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.


Have You Read
MAJESTY
SERVICE
BY EOT BHIIXiba
of
"BY HIS EXCELLENCES
COMMAND
South Sea
Shipmates
[,■:.. Af Qua
jUunyip
• DON
DELANEY
-
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE.” By ROY BRIDGES.
An excellent historical romance of early Tasmania.
“TN RACING SILK.” By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
A powerful story of the Australian turf.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA.” By NORMAN LINDSAY.
The side-splitting adventures of a curate, with many illus-
trations by the famous black-and-white artist.
‘‘ABORIGINALITIE S.’ ’ From The Bulletin.
Gems from The Bulletin’s popular “Aboriginalities” pages.
“FOR TURON GOLD.” By DON DELANEY.
A brilliant goldfields tale.
“THE SPORT FROM HOLLOWLOG FLAT.”.
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
A first-class Australian sporting novel.
“THE PYJAMA MAN.” By RALFII STOCK.-
A splendid romance by the author of “A Recipe for
Rubber.”
“THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN RANGE.”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
A vivid account of the Ben Hall gang.
“LOVES OF LANCELOT.” By EDWARD DYSON.
A rollicking series of love adventures by Australia’s best
humorist.
“DAD IN POLITICS.” By STEELE RUDD.
One of the best of the famous Selection series.
“SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES.” By ARTI I UR JOHN BARRY.
A series of splendid sea stories.
“THE SIGN OF THE SERPENT.” By J. 11. M. ABBOTT.
A capital smuggling and secret-society story.
These are a few of the Favorites in
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES OF
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
NINETY VOLUMES—
All If- each (1/1 posted).
THE WORK OF AUSTRALIA'S MOST POPULAR AUTHORS.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
Some Really Good “REGAL” RECORDS at 2/- each.
REGAL RECORDS.
10-inch. Double-sided.
6738
f This is the Rife S. Kirkby.
I In Wear Old Romany ~ ~
6798
j Never Mind
| Love Me as You Used to Love Me
Doris Disui.
<>B2o
\ Here We Are, Here We Are, Here We Are Again S. Kirkby
(The I'lag That Never Comes Down Latimer
6830
S Watching- the Boat Come In Carter & Carter.
[ There’s a (treat. Bis Buff Buff Steam ins Along- to Me
6831
f Do They Love It?
i When You’re All Dressed Ul> and N<> l’lace to Go
William Halley
0833
s Never Mind Stanley Kirkli.v.
I We All Come fra’ Lancashire ... ~ ~
0834
{Algernon, Go Hon! Stanley Kirkhy.
I The AVeddfng of the Joy Hiiie Girl ~ ~
G 837
J The Minstrel Boy Itoert Miller
( A Life on the Ocean Wave I>. Dudley
(iB4O
f X.et ’em
| March <
All Come, We’re Kea<ly
n to Berlin
11. liiitimer
S. Kirkhy
(1843
\ Tlie Charge of the London Scottish
(Nobby Clark, V.C.
Descriptive.
68-14
J Tipperaryland” l'anto Overture
\ “Tipperaryland” Overture, 55 ..
Kegfal Orchestra.
6845
I “.Tipperarylaml”
j Chicago Tickle ,
Overture, No. 3
.... ltegal Orchestra
ltegal Military Band
0846
( We’re Irish, and Proud of it, too
(I do like s’niee s’minee Pies ....
F. W. Ramsey.
r. 848
j The Gobble’ums Will Get You F. W. Ramsey
l Johnny Morgan on Hiis Little Mouth Organ S. Kirkby
6851 ;
S It’s the Same Ol<l Tommy and the Same Old Jack S
1 John Hull's Catechism Harrison
. Klrltby
Latimer
«853
f When We’ve Wound Up the Watch on the Rhine Duet.
{The Goose Step S. Kirkby.
g
sdfg
sd
S. Kirklty
Frank Lindley
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR _REGAL RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Waking House, Rawson Plaee. '
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd.,' 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. li. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan. Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Wehley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. J
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
1
0
m
m
( JM
rs
>
Charters T(
V s
wen
13*7.
3ckd
win ton
T
Sffia
Kannine
Cunnatnuila
H
walia
£
t
Qoolgard‘e
Ar/nj
Port
Pirie
o**
AUCKLAN
K
New Ply
<?o°
0
MJW*
MELBOURNE
telsort
%
&
Si?
NEW
M
r
ZEALAND.
BAR
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD-SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
A SAFE, SURE, AND RELIABLE SPECIFIC FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
The general symptoms of worms are a,
tendency to pick the nose and a sensation of
itching in the anus. Other symptoms are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness,- irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, and grind-
ing the teeth, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infre-
quent in children, and symptoms resembling
water in the head have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
The long round or stomach worm is the
commonest kind of worm from which man-
kind suffers, and is of a light, transparent
color, resembling the ordinary ground worm,
except that the extremities are more sharply
pointed than the ground worm.
Young people are more subject to these
worms than middle-aged or elderly people.
They live in the bowels, and sometimes make
their way into the stomach and throat, caus-
ing sickness, vomiting and choking. Gener-
ally one or two would be the most a person
would be afflicted with, but sometimes a
much larger number is met with. The length
varies from four to eight inches, but young
ones an inch to two inches long are also
found. The first thing to do is to rid the
system of the worms, and Comstock s Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according to
directions, are an effective remedy for the
thorough eradication of the long round 01
stomach worm —the common enemy of the
child, the youth, the middle-aged and aged.
A light, nourishing diet, out-of-door exercise,
and, if possible, a change of air, will greatly
improve the general health.
Threadworms or pinworms are of very
common occurrence in children. 3 hey are
very small, from one-sixth of an inch to lialf-
an-ineli in length, and resemble cotton
thread—they are sometimes called seat
worms, and reside in the lower bowels. 3. he
chief symptom of this worm is severe local
itching, restlessnesp and irritability, and a
frequent desire to urinate, picking at the
nose;. loss of appetite and anaemia are also
observed. To get rid of the worms and their
eggs their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according
to directions, on an empty stomach, followed
by a dose of opening medicine, will succeed
where others fail.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
a purely vegetable medicinal preparation for
the eradication of worms in children and adults.
Prom chemists and storekeepers, 3s. Gd. per
packet, or Dost paid by The W. II. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang St., Church Hill, Sydney.


The Russians may be faithful to their
Allies, but faith without deeds cannot win
them their heaven of victory. Thus inspireth
that wise and royal spirit King George IV.
topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special
foie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS 00 ROUNLD?
zCCtd& /
LEWIS &WHITTY MAKERS
No one can afford to waste.
Spend only what is necessary
and then always with an eye
to saving. Men, be practical
economise shave your-
selves.
NO STROPPING NO HONING
One bought to-day will save many a
shilling in a year, and hours of your
valuable time. Many styles to
choose from. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. B»£fnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
gsd
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
CATARRH
Sir Joshua Bartlett’s Book.
This book, reprinted in Australia from the Eng-
lish edition by Sir Joshua Bartlett’s Sole
Licensees, will be sent FREE to all sufferers
from that dreaded disease, Catarrh, who fill in
and post to us the coupon given below, enclosing
Sd. in stamps to pay for postage, etc.
This work explains in detail Sir Joshua Bartlett’s
New Treatment for Nose, Throat and Chest
Diseases, and shows how they may be CURED
by a New Method, at home, quickly, easily and
pleasantly.
FREE to-day I
If you suffer from breathing troubles, Catarrh,
Bronchial Disorders, Deafness, Asthma, Discharges
from the Nose,’ Phlegm in the Throat, Noises in
the Head and Ears, Hay Fever, you will be.
surprised and delighted at your rapid progress
under the Treatment within the first fortnight,
and your PERMANENT return to health within
a few weeks.
Cut this advt. out and send it with 3d. in
we will post you a copy of “The Home
stamps and your name and address, and
Doctor.”
KUNEROL LABORATORIES PROPRIETARY, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
But. 21/6/’l7.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The good money that has been fooled away
and the good horses that have been ruined by the
knocking-about most of the 2-year-olds get in N. S.
Wales ought to be measured up by the A.J.C. and
other racing clubs concerned. Many of these young
liqrses are raced week after week, and most of the
others every fortnight or so. The juveniles which
came on early in the Spring were kept hard at it
until they were played out. Then another crop
developed, and these are being kept busy until next
birthday arrives. Heaven knows hotv many will
survive and be of any use, but it is 100 to 1 that
a fair proportion are not going to be heard of except
among the “also ran” brigade. Lately this page
saw two or three of the earlier hard-worked lot. The
chaSe after the big money on offer for young ’uns
lias left them in a state of wreck. And it is easy
to pick out others running now that have been
galloped to a standstill. The idea that the rich
prizes hung up for 2-year-olds is good for breeders
is a delusion held only by those who cannot see
beyond .the end of their noses. That it is bad for
the Australian horse is beyond doubt. The business
badly wants an overhaul.
Warwick Faun punters collapsed in their
seats when Canzone rushed past the judge’s box in
advance of five other runners in the Flying on
Saturday. The reason for all this palpitation was
that Canzone had come to be regarded purely as a
stayer and not much chop at that, seeing that a
year had elapsed since his number was hoisted in
first place. As Canzone, an imported prad, was the
outsider of the small party, on Saturday, Abrahams
kilts flapped about in merriment as the public
disgustedly flung away their useless tickets. When
Canzone first arrived from the Cold Country he was
looked upon as a sprinter, and solidly backed two or
three times in six-furlong events at Rundwick. But
he may do better that way in his old age. Anyway,
at Mooreficld a couple of weeks ago he was close up
to the place-getters in a field of a dozen when the
end of a short journey was reached.
, * * * *' '
For some unknown reason there lias been
a boom in Sydney on Black Earl, and in the last
three starts he has been a solid favorite. This was
probably due to the nag’s forward running at
the last but one Warwick Farm meeting, when, after
being bumped about, he arrived close to a winner.
When produced at llandwick in novice class he was
made favorite, led into the straight, was caught, and
subsided like a hunted dog. Next time he appeared
at a near-country meeting, and the same thing
happened. On Saturday he was favorite for the
Warwick Farm Stakes, and never looked a winner.
Besides losing, the only thing Black Earl has so far
done happened at Menangle about a year ago, when
lie won a maiden event. There must have been
something wrong with the brute that day.
* * * tc-
It was up to “Jumbo” Barnett, one-time
owner of A.J.C. Derby winner Cetigne, to have a
change of luck ; so his colt Lambourne annexed the
Warwick Farm Stakes on Saturday, winning by
three lengths. Lambourne is by the defunct sire
Grafton, and prior to Saturday had been a poor in-
vestment —-be cost 600 guineas as a yearling. How-
ever, the people behind him deposited solid wads
with Ike at a nice price this time, and are no
doubt sanguine that the horse will win some more in
future. Lambourne is out of an imported mare,
Shuffle, and ran in the A.J.C. Derby won by Kilbov.
He was well up for a mile and a quarter, but then
took up a position at the tail. In the Novice Han-
dicap won by Sobrina at Randwick recently Lam-
bourne also decorated the wrong end.
* * * #
Punters have been pleased to hear that
Spurn is pot going to race again. For a year she
was under a cloud; since emerging she has proved
horribly expensive, having won only the Railway
Stakes at Rosehill in March. She is beautifully bred
and goes to the mysterious job of producing winners
with the o-reat advantage of not having been exces-
sively raced.
» * * *
“Five Bob” : My friend the small book-
maker complains of a racecourse joke of “Baron”
Brown’s. When my friend is trying to catch the silver
minnows, up comes the financial whale covered with
coal-mines, asks the price of a horse and pretends
to be disgusted when the small penciller respectfully
declines to bet in hundreds, pleading in extenuation
that he isn’t the great Moses Loudodds or the
immense Patrick Yellbag. Apparently even book-
makers have their secret sorrows.
* * * *
The Sydney pony Haut Special was asked
to give an imitation of a. Clydesdale at Morpeth
(N.S.W.) on Saturday. First he captured the hiv-
ing Handicap, three furlongs, with 14? t. 71b. in the
saddle. Later in the afternoon, with lewt. Sor.
14lb. aboard, he secured the Morpeth Handicap, also
three furlongs. The little beast of burden started at
6 to 4 on in the first dash and 5 to 4 on in the
second. It was a day of mighty tests. Three of the
alleged races were over three furlongs, and another
over one less. Other events were “bridle” races.
Incidentally, this misuse of dumb animals was called
“sport.”
“Creh Egdur” : Clapator’s three wins (B.
24/5/’l7) in one day at Mudgee (N.S.W.) has a
competitor in British Colors. At Cobar (N.S.W.)
on Easter Monday last B.C. won the opening (lOst.
91b.), Club Handicap (lOst. 121 b.) and Farewell
(list. 41b.). His best price through the day was
5 to 1 “on.” The other two races went to a local
crack, Euchre Billy, owiiig to the favorite bolting
round the course four times, thus giving Bill about
four miles start.
“Chal”: The spieler lmd a Greek in
hand. Prior to the last race the trusting Dago
handed over his quid for investment on River Prince,
which moke duly arrived a winner. The crook
assumed a despondent attitude. “Bad luck again,
he said, “another third.” Just then the placed
numbers flew up and the Greek became excitable.
“My horse win ! My horse win ! See —number tight.”
The spieler turned on him witheringly. “My Gawd,”
he said, “don’t you know that much 1 They’re the
scratchin’s for the next meetin’!”
“Fax” : It says much for the astuteness of
citizen John Wren, whose fortunes were founded by
a private tote and established by proprietary pony-
meetings, that he gets so much advertisement for his
benefactions in Melbourne. A little bit of roofing
shelter for recruiting orators, aguinst. the front of
the Town Hall, is labelled “Erected by John Wren,
•Esq.,” which is a fine ad. for- the money. Just now
John is figuring in connection with the latest of
St. Vincent Hospital devices for raising the wind.
The Hospital is selling shilling tickets which differ
from ordinary bits of numbered paper in having
miniature copies of famous putures printed thereon.
Wren promises £lOOO to the person holding a certain
selected miniature picture—in other words, a certain
numbered ticket —to be selected on the sweep sys-
tem]. And if half a million tickets be sold at a
shilling each he will give £5OOO to the holder of
the lucky number. The chances are that John
Wren, Esq., will get through with a donation of
£lOOO, of course. It is all in the way of chanty,
but it disreminds one of the philanthropy which
doesn’t let its left hand know what its right hand
doeth.
» * * *
“Musketoon” • Mow about adopting my
patent tote, which 1 have invented at "Forbes
(N.S.W.)? Get sufficient kerosene-tins and label
each with the name of a starter. The investor puts
his cash in the tin bearing the name of the horse
he fancies, and when the race is won, the money is
pooled and a dividend declared. The contraption is
simple und cheap, and can be installed for about
one (1) quid. I give every bush dub the right to
use this machine free of royalty. If the A.J.C. or
suburban clul s take it on 1 want to be put in charge.
P.S. —The A.J.C. should use 400 gal. tanks instead
of oil-cans, in order to accomrfiodate any defaulting
tellers who might arrive with a few thousand for a
single race.
Trophies presented by the different
Generals for the Desert Column race meet-
ing held at Rafa in March, 1017. The
figure is Lt.-Col. (Padre) Woods, chaplain
to the Anzac Mounted Division.
“Billjimmy” : The Desert Column Spring
Race Meeting was held at Rafa a few days before the
Battle of Gaza. Great affair. There were three
brass and one pipe (Scotties’) bands in action; large
field in each event, 20 the smallest. Programme and
results:—•
Rafa Cun: Burrawang, 1; Khedive, 2; Piastre, 3.
Syrian Derby: El Arish, 1; Desert Chief, 2;
Bidgee, 3.
Anzac Steeplechase: Tarawera, 1; Abdul, 2;
Dryazell, 3.
Promised Land Handicap: Ginger Mick, 1 ;
Huglieselier, 2; The Prophet, 3.
Sinai Grand National: The Banjo, 1; Minesabeer,
2 ; Tipperary, 3.
Jerusalem Scurry: Y’emma, 1; Te Kooti, 2;
Clancy, 3.
There were several minor events as well. Austra-
lian mokes accounted for five races, English for two
and a Maorilander for one. Among riders and horses
were several that had faced the barrier at Rand-
wick. Some have since weighed in for the Eternity
Stakes. May the sands rest lightly on them!
* * * *
“Black Wattle”: Not all the baby bonuses
go into the jeweller’s till. A Victorian wife and
mother recently sued the local produce dealer for the
recovery of two racehorses which he had collared in
payment of an account contracted in her husband’s
name. The missus said that the boss never really
owned the nags, as they were purchased by her
with the proceeds of a wedding present and three
baby bonuses.
* * * *
That accomplished exponent of Bash, Mr.
Eddie McGoorty, emerged from retirement on Satur-
day and had a scrap at Sydney Stadium. The other
party was that hefty young Australian, Mr. Albert
Lloyd. As they are a pair of good, solid punchers
the crowd saw something worth while. McGoorty
owns too much meat these days to be as formidable
as he was in the long ago, but he is still a very
harmful American citizen. Probably he reckoned
that Lloyd, who had been tastefully trimmed by Dave
Smith a few weeks before, was easy. It turned out
that Lloyd was something else. He brought more
intelligence to bear on McGoorty than he did on
David, and hit with a greater emphasis. The Ameri-
can was never particularly good as an in-fighter, and
Lloyd frequently obliged him with what he didn’t
want. In return, McGoorty handed out heavy bom-
bardment to the body, and also made occasional
efforts to connect up with the old reliable swing, but
failed. There was no question about the result; not
only was the American heavily punished, but he was
clearly outpointed. Nevertheless, McGoorty took
Scctt s verdict for Lloyd very badly. He hasn't got
into the habit of losing well, though, no doubt, if
the winner had treated Smith as disrespectfully, the
verdict would have been easier to swallow.
Flyweights had the limelight at Brisbane
on Saturday. Mr. William Woods came up from
Sydney, and was presented with a ferocious punch
oil the- ncse by Mr. James Taylor. At times it looked
as if Willie’s boxing would make a difference, but
the little Bananalander so ardently prosecuted the
attack that Willie’s boxing didn’t amount to a row
of pins. The referee did the visitor a favor in the
thirteenth round by postponing the slaughter. Jimmy
Taylor begins to look as if he is flyweight champion
because he deserves to be.
» * * *
A seldom-met-witli record got the k.o. at
Hobart (Tas.) the other day when Davey and Berris-
ford gQt through an 18in. log' with double-handed
saw in 22 4-ssec. L. Mclntosh and E. Higgins, of
Hornsby (N.S.W.), did the previous best at Sydney
Show in 1915; and in winning the N. S. Wales
championship a couple of months ago E. Higgins
and E. Harrington pushed the saw through as much
wood in 25Asec.
* * * *
Last time it was the champion boxer who
was dodging; this time it is the billiardist —-Mel-
bourne Inman, champion of the world. Melb. ap-
pealed last week against military service to an
English Board, and the chairman, in adjourning the
case for further medical evidence, said nastily, “Don’t
talk to me of international champions 1”
* •» * *
The end of N. S. Wales Rugby League’s
first round on Saturday left Balmain without defeat
in seven matches. In points Balmain has piled up
115 against 19; and only three times has an enemy
crossed its border. At present, therefore, Balmain
seems on the way to add another to the premiership
successes of the two previous seasons, in the last
two matches, against Glebe and South Sydney, all
the points for Balmain (18) were scored by R.
Miller, a hustling, broad-shouldered forward with a
(lever boot.
» * * *
“The ’limp”: The Premiership Competi-
tion Shield presented by Norwood (S.A.) Club to
the N.S.W. Australian Game League to go to any
team winning it three times (not necessarily in
succession) lias been bagged twice by the Sydney
Club. Paddington has done ditto, and other clubs
have each won once. At the last meeting of the
League, on a motion that the Shield be not further
played for until after the war, the Sydney Club’s
delegates voted affirmatively. Paddington voted in
the negative, and the division tied. Then the cast-
ing vote of the president decided that the competi-
tion should go on. Sydney Club has many players
at the Front, including several who enlisted since
last season’s competition. Paddington has not lost
any men (by enlisting) since last season. Further,
the team which presented the Shield, the Norwoods
—in fact, all of the teams in S. Aus. —are out of
competition football, till after the war. In deciding
to play on as usual, the Australian Game in Sydney
seems determined to commit suicide. .You can’t
have much respect for a crowd which persists in run-
ning a competition which it is really more disgraceful
to win than to lose.
* * * *
Rnbbo (N.S.W.) had a pleasant afternoon
recentlv, when two football matches yielded a
casualty-list of thirteen.
* * * *
H. D. L. Woods, dead at Sydney, was a
fine sportsman. He pulled on a jersey in the old
Wallaroo Rugby team —which included at times
Senator “Jupp” Gardiner, Stan Wickham and Sam
Spragg—and was a sterling forward. Both at cricket
and golf Woods did useful toil for Manlv (Sydney),
and as a delegate to N.S.W. Cricket Association and
in other ways gave up many spare hours to athletics.
11.D.L. was a brother of Sammy, who, while at
Cambridge, played ewht matches with Percv McDon-
nell's 1888 Australian XI. Two years later he took
all 10 wickets for 69 in a match Cambridge v. C. I.
Thornton’s XI.
* * * *
Having tried in vain to enter the artil-
lery, George W. Morris, the youngster who is Vic-
toria’s champion distance swimmer, has enlisted in
the infantry, in order to join his brother at the
Front. George W. has started in 52 races, and, has
been unplaced only nine times. His record includes
first in mile arid half-mile championships, first in the
earliest three-mile race down the Yarra, apd second-
fastest time on each subsequent occasion that this
event was swum. He is sec. of Albert Park Swim-
ming Club.
* * * *
Lieut.-Col. Lachlan Wilson, recently deco-
rated with the French War Cross, is growing old in
the war business. He exchanged cards with Kruger
in S'Africa; ard since August, 1914, he has been
happiest where the fighting was thickest. Just on a
quarter of a century ago, in Brisbane (Q.),.he pulled
an oar with the Commercial Club, and learned foot-
ball at the Grammar School. Brother “Bob” Wilson
(also a great athlete) is warming Fritz, up with the
artillery.
* * * *
Lpnce-Cornoral T. J\ B. Kenny, lately
awarded the V.C., is an Australian bantam of
6ft. 2in. He used to lead Christian Brothers’ College,
Waverley, at cricket and Rugby’.
* * * *
Sergeant J. W. Whittle, the latest Tas-
manian V.C., is a hefty sport. He weighs about
14st., mostly muscle, and before he started for
France, via Gallipoli, he won the amateur heavy-
weight boxing championship of the Speck. He still
holds it, for they don’t do any amateur boxing down
there now.
•**.**
R. G. Piffgott (East Sydney) made a haul
in the challenge match against St. Ignatius on
Saturday, winning: the 100yds. (10 4-ssec.), 220yds.
(2545ec.), and 90yds. hurdles (Hisec.).. He also
finished second in the 880vds. (2min. 26 l-ssec.).
Piggott arrived first in the East Sydney club cham-
pionsliip sprints this season; and in last years
440vds. Dunn chamniorshio filled second place to
J. J. Walshe (now in khaki) in 53 3-ssec. But,
despite Piggott, St. Ignatius won the challenge with
40 noints against East Sydney’s 32. The rest were
as slow as snails.
When Les Darcy's body is brought back to
Australia it will cot be the first time an athlete s
remains have been carried from oversea for burial in
his home land. About 15 years ago Charlie Cavili,
second eldest of the world-famed family of swimmers,
was drowned at Stockton (U.S.A.) while performing
an under-water feat he had successfully accomplished
many times previously. Cavili in this stunt had
been accustomed to use a bell which had previously
been lowered into the water charged with oxygen,
lie used to retreat into this for several minutes
while the watchers above marvelled at his remarkable
lung-power. On the last day Cavili stayed in the
bell too long, became exhausted and was asphyxiated.
His body was brought back to Sydney.
* * * *
The Lamington Golf Cup (Bananaland),
competed for in a knock-out tournament, was won
this year by Bartley Fahey, a member of the Ancient
House, and P. .1. Symes. The last stroke at the
last hole settled it. The Hon. Bartley is a mere
fledgling of SI, who simply won't have it that the
Bananaland climate is unfit for white men. _
“Me-Tax”: My two young Australians (I
live at Casino, N.S.W.) went forth with one .22-
calibre miniature rifle between them. The resulting
bag was: One black duck, two black moor-hens, three
pigeons, one heron (or blue crane), 12 rosella parrots
and a crow (scalp worth sixpence). Total victims,
20; cartridges used, 55. Incidentally, ever tried
blue crane as a table bird? Roasted, it would pass
for young chicken.
* * * *
“Merrigal” : Forties (N.S.W.) has a freak
in 17-year-old “Curly” Brewer, who prefers a rifle
to a shot-gun when potting feathered game. Using
a 22-calibre Winchester, loaded with its smallest
pellet, he top-scored at a recent duck-shooting excur-
sion, securing several of his birds when they were
well on the wing. Later I saw him with the same
weapon stop 17 out of 20 bronzewing pigeons, distant
from 00 to 90 paces, and be didn’t seem to think
much of the performance. His elder brother is snip-
ing Germans.
* * * *
“Peg-Log”: I've adorned the two-up
schools around Manly mentioned by “W.J.H.” (B.
7/0/'l7), but thev were tame affairs compared with
the games that flourished on the site of the Little
Theatre, Sydney, a few years ago. Hands up the
mob that remembers the old bloque who sat at the
side of the main ring, with his trousers tucked up
to his knees, and reckoned himself the mascot of
anyone who happened to be winning a few pounds !
He used to present his bill this way: “ 'Ow arc yeh,
Brownie?” “Never better in me life.” “I'm not
arskin’ about y’r bleedin’ ’ealfh I ’Ow about my
rake-off?” It was an understood thing that the
old finger should get something out of every m&n’s
winnings. They were gentlemen in that school. A
player could knock off when he liked, even if he
were winning 50 or 70 pounds. In that event,
however, no one else was allowed to leave the joint
till 10 minutes had passed. This gave the luck-
child time to tear up Castlereagh-street for a tram
before the toreadors swooped out.
“Trot”: Anyone ever hear of an individual
being charged with cruelty to a fish? Well, it hap-
pened not long since at Colombo, where three of
the population were fined. They had conveyed a
7cwt. sunfish to the markets in a live condition,
bleeding copiously. Their yarn was that as they
did not have with them large enough cutlery to slay
the catch, there was nothing for it but to convey
the animal to the cutlery. As the beak wouldn’t
accept this as an excuse, it seems as if those who
go fishing for half-ton cod in the Lachlan had better
arm themselves with a cutlass in case of emergency.


ARE YOU ABLE TO PROPERLY
DEFEND YOURSELF?
Suppose, for instance, some fellow insulted you, what would be jom
position ?
Would you have to suffer such an insult to go unavenged, tee
your prestige—your manliness in the eyes of youi fello\ . , npii+tle
be able to deliver a sound thrashing to the man who endeavors to belittle
you in the eyes of your fellow-men ?
There are times in every man’s life when he has occasio
himself. Are you prepared for such emergencies? Then why i
teach you the noble art of self-defence?
I Teach Boxing by Post.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily
understood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates
every serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experience
and keen observation of the moves of the world s
best boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your
natural ability—of making good use of the means
Nature gave you for protecting yourself. You win
surely be fair to yourself and learn Scientific Boxing 1 .
Write to-day for mv interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods,
terms, etc. Send three penny stamps for postage.'
Just write your name and address across this advt.
’ *■ T will know what vou mean.
and spnd it to
L
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“The all-round Champion
Australia,”
621 BELMONT BUILDINGS,
Athlete of
SYDNEY.
Siris Cigars
mm
Sr
1111
The equal of
smokes often
soldatdouble
the price.
Boxes of 50
Postage 9d.
11/6
Boxes of 100
Postage 1/3 22/6
A Sample Cedar
Cabinet of 5 will
be forwarded any=
where on receipt
of 1/6.
Actua! Size.
A. KEBBLEWHITE,
C*gar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House,”
19 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
safeguard your health
ptJ.Coltis Broiling
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
fg
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
sndim
Catalogue " D " with pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. C™:
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
dsf
Wm»
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CIIAUM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, SJ-, BJ-.
Made in England.
RIGNEY SHOES
The fine style, perfect fit and high quality of
Rigney Shoes give distinction to the wearer.
They have a character and individuality that
lift them above “ordinary” footwear.
We illustrate a choice All-Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike “perfect.”
The famous Paris Last. Patents or Tans.
Price - 40|-
Postage 9d. extra.
gdsf
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
I
6
n
(■■■■■lll
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Jh Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
lIHMI
(■■■■■ill
%
.V *
• yjrp
i
'v~s*
£2
v- - >.
W
22
-
r
Pure Australian Wool
Australian-made T weed
Australian-made Trousers
These Trousers were made in Australia. The Tweeds
used in their manufacture were made in Australia. The
Wool used in making the Tweeds was grown on the backs
of sheep “born and bred” in Australia, so it only remains
for you to buy and wear the finished Garments to provide
the keystone in the arch of an Australian industry.
But apart from Patriotic Reasons—the trousers them-
selves are sufficient reason for their purchase Perfectly
Tailored in All-Wool Tweeds in Smart Medium Grey
Shades —Neat Herringbone Patterns —Smart and with
wonderful capacity for service Obtainable with cross or
side pockets—they’re rare value at our price
ni£* (plus half postage—Victoria 6d.,
/O Interstate lOd. Outsizes 1/- extra)
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
244-256 Flinders Street
Melbourne


Pleasant and
Easy to Take.
Cinnak
Quick & Certain
in its Action.
NO WATER TUMBLER
OR SPOON IS NEEDED.
Cinnak is a delightfully refresh-
ing powder with strong anti-
septic properties, which at once
relieve colds, huskiness and nasal
catarrh. Cinnak cures and pro-
tects. It ean he taken anywhere
at any time.
PER TUBE 1/6 ALL CHEMISTS.
I 53
Why hook Old?
You need not use hair dye to conceal grey hair.
Grey hair adds years to anyone’s appear-
ance. The objections to dyeing the hair are
too numerous and too obvious to mention.
Few people are aware that a simple, old-
fashioned recipe, that can he made up at
home, will quickly turn grey hair back to a
natural color without injuring the hair in
any way. One has only to get two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite from the chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
With a small sponge apply the lotion to the
hair for a few nights and the desired change
will have been neatly accomplished. This
simple formula has given great satisfac-
tion for generations to those in possession of
it. —A pvt. [3
THK GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
& BHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and AIUSCULAK RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
P’-rmt A: Co.. 220 Strand. London.
BEGIN
POULTRY
KEEPING
and Make Money
Poultry-keeping, properly conducted is one of
the most fascinating, healthful, profitable, and
useful occupations. There is no branch of Agri-
cu’ture and scarcely any industry to-day which
offers greater opportunities than the Poultry in-
dustry. No industry is growing faster than this
one.
Thousands of people in all parts of Australia
are makng £lOO to £3OO a year in their spare time
by Poultry-keeping, while those who have entered
into it as a business make from £.lOOO to £3OOO a
year in numbers of cases, and this is quite possible
if the business is conducted scientifically.
Scientific Poultry Farming can be learnt and
started by anyone —both men and women. The
business can be commenced on the sma lest scale
involving a very small outlay, and there is no
limit to what you can make out of it.
You Can Begin
in Your Own Back Yard.
You do not require a large block of land for
Poultry Farming. The modern intensive system
of Poultry Culture makes it possible for you to
rear a very large number of birds successfully and
with profit on a very limited space.
FREE
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET !
Money in Poultry” is the title of our Illus-
trated booklet which gives you an interesting in-
sight into the Poultry business, and which every
person interested in making money out of Poultry
should possess.
Send just your name and address— now— for
your copy, enclosing 3d. in stamps to cover cost
of postage and we will send it to you at once also
our interesting literature on Poultry Farming.
THE —l
Southern School of Poultry Culture
62 Exchange Corner,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street. Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
ES£c
if
Win
LY shiny
life less
a woman
sequent
a simple remedy
If you have no
need only get
Apersistent-
nose or a dull,
complexion drives many
to cosmetics and con-
despair. And all the time
lies at hand in the home.
eleminite in the house you _
ibout an ounce from your chemist and add
just sufficient water to dissolve it. A little
of this simple lotion is Nature’s own beauti-
fier. It is very good for the skin and in-
stantly gives the complexion a soft, velvety,
youthful bloom that any woman might envy.
It lasts all day or evening, renders powder-
ing entirely unnecessary, and absolutely
defies detection.
* * # *
COSMETICS can never really help a poor
complexion ; often they are positively
harmful. The sensible, rational way is to
actually remove the thin veil of stifling,
half-dead scarf skin from the face, and give
the fresh, vigorous and beautiful young skin
underneath a chance to show itself and to
breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way,
b.y merely applying mercolised wax at night,
like cold cream, and washing it off in the
morning. It absorbs- the disfiguring cuticle
gradually and. harmlessly, leaving a brilliant
natural complexion. Of course, this also
takes with it all such facial blemishes as
red blotches, tan, moth patches, sallowness,
liver spots, etc. As a freckle remover and
general complexion beautifier this old-
fashioned remedy is unequalled.
* * * *
BLACKHEADS, oily skins and enlarged
pores usually go together, but can be
nstantly corrected by a unique new process.
tablet of stymol, obtained from the chem-
st’s is dropped in a tumbler of hot water,
which will then of course “fizz” briskly.
Secrets of Beauty
The Cream of Modern Beauty Advice
By “MIMOSA.”
When the effervescence has subsided the face
is bathed with the stymol-charged water and
then dried with a towel. The offending
blackheads, of their own accord, Come right
off on the towel, the large oily pores imme-
diately contract and efface themselves natu-
rally/ There is no squeezing, forcing or any
drastic action. The skin is left uninjured,
smooth, soft and cool. ‘ A few such treat-
ments should be taken at intervals of three
or four days thereafter in order to ensure
the permanence of the pleasing result so
quickly obtained.
BEAUTIFUL hair adds immensely to
the personal magnetism 'of both men
and women. Actresses and smart women
are ever on the look-out for any harmless
thing that will increase the natural beauty
of their hair. The latest method is to use
pure stallax as a shampoo on account of
the peculiarly glossy, fluffy and wavy effect
which it leaves. As stallax has never been
used much for this purpose it comes to the
chemist only in sealed original packages,
enough for twenty-five or thirty shampoos.
A teaspoonful of the fragrant stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair, apart
from its beautifying effect.
IT is astonishing the number of -women
who suffer from the humiliating afflic-
tion of superfluous hair, and I am sorry to
say that through ignorance or wrong treat-
ment the majority of them have made matters
considerably worse by causing the hairs to
grow more quickly and stronger than before.
It only requires a little thought to realise
the folly of it all. Removing the surface
growth for a few days may give temporary
relief, but in order to obtain permanent
results the hair roots must be killed. Caustic
depilatories are worse than useless, and on
no account should the hairs be pulled out.
Apart from the electric needle, which is a
costly and painful process, any chemist will
tell you that the best home treatment is
pure powdered pheminol, which has a de-
vitalising effect upon the hair roots, in addi-
tion to which it removes all trace of the
objectionable hair in a few seconds, and the
recommended treatment gradually, but
surely, dissolves out the hair follicles, which
is the only method of permanently ridding
oneself of this terrible disfigurement. [6
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Eift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and
other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High-pressure Stocks
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, Sydney. A. MAYNE HERON, Manager.
©
BOOTS are the smart wear for the- season
—Dame Fashion has cast that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
- fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. . Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted- models
in the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try" it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to' feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
picnics and excursions in the most blazing
weather.
Bostock No.
<§>
,x
(i
Si
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
A charming selection of Bostoek shoes
always on view at all leading stores.
832
.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
ALWAYS SHINY and BRIGHT!•
That’s so. Your boots will always be shiny and bright if you polish them with
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSING.
It can be had in Paste or Cream, Od. and 1/-. Sold Everywhere.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, and White.
' BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., SYDNEY.
An old soldier who may have met Private
Stanley Ortheris in the flesh—for both
fought at Ahmed liheyl—is Captain W. N.
Holmes, now ending his days at Scottsdale
(Tas.). lie has named the place Dilkhoosha
(“Heart’s Delight”), after one of the palaces
so fiercely fought for in the Indian Mutiny.
The old boy, who is 85, retired in 1880 on a
pension, augmented by a grant for distin-
guished services. Ho was 30 year's with the
King’s Royal Rifles; Kaffir War, 1851-3
(medal) ; Mutiny, 1858 (medal) ; China,
1860 (medal with two clasps) ; Afghanistan,
1878-80 (medal with clasp, and bronze
star). He helped to drive the mutinous
Sepoys out of the .Tudispore jungles; saw the
fall of the Taku forts and Pekin, and the
burning of the Chinese Emperor’s palace;
marched with Roberts from Kabul to Kanda-
har. and witnessed the surrender of the
stronghold. He was a fellow officer with
Lord Gormanston, who renewed the old com-
radeship when he was Governor of Tas. 20
years ago.
“Chink” takes off his hat: —
A gilt-edged family history closed when .T. 0.
Simson passed out'at Claremont (W.A.) a few days
ago, at 75. His father was the pioneer squatter of
the Maryborough (Vic.) district, which in the
beginning figured as Sirnson’s Ranges. He and two
brothers came from the Monaro and spread their
mantle over a wide area. One of the brothers was
drowned while trying to save an employee from the
flooded Bet Bet Creek ; Donald Campbell Simson died
soon after; and his two sons, John Coghill Campbell
and David Dalgety, were sent to Europe to “finish
off” by their uncle, Hector Norman Simson. The
boys loomed large in Vic., society when they re-
turned, more so as .T.C. brought with him as his
wife the Baronne de Reibeld, daughter of a Bavarian
baron. In the early ’fiO’s the passing of the two
big, handsome lads made Melbourne crane its neck.
But their ideas of living and entertaining, together
with their attachment to the turf, started them on
the way downhill. The slump had well begun when,
in ’74, the Baroness Marie died at the age of 34,
as the result of an accident with her four-in-hand
when from races at Majorca. The star
of the Simsons ~set after that. D.D. drifted to Mel-
bourne, and finished up 10 years ago as a labor agent
m a small wav at Kirk's bazaar; J.C. married again,
pottered about arguing with Maryborough trades-
people for a while, and finally went West, where he
lived from, hand to mouth until the end came in a
retreat for the aged. . Bjit always he was the same
in spirft the same’ lofty. Simson who scattered
sovereigns from the'. Mclvor .Hotel balcony, followed
bis packs of hounds 1 over the countryside, and backed
his string of horses.
Captain Norman Brearley. D. 5.0., M.C.,
who made a name in the air above France, is
back in Perth on leave for six months with
a pair of bullet-punctured lungs. The Huns
nearly finished him,last time he interviewed
them.. He fell witlf 1 his vehicle into a shell-
hole in No Man’s Land, where he lay
wounded for hours. He is voting and very
modest, and before the war was with Hoskins
and Co., engineers. Now he gets special
compensation in his engagement to a daugh-
ter of Sydney Stubbs, M.L.A., erstwhile
Mayor of Perth,
Some loquacious patriots have lopsided
ideas of loyalty and duty. Ruth, a .Mel-
bourne Baptist parson, who never tires of
saving the Empire by abusing the Labor
party,, was asked by the Director-General of
Recruiting to address a meeting." He replied
that he was in favor of Conscription, pro-
ceeded to remark that “racing is still per-
mitted to make wastrels of men of military
age and fitness, Stadium fights are' continued
and disloyalty fostered.” and ended by re-
fusing the request. Whatever may be urged
against the voluntary system, it is the ofily
method of raising troops in Australia at
present, and will continue to be until after
another vote of the people. Men like Tudor
and Maloney—who oppose Conscription—are
always ready to address recruiting meetings
(although even this wins them the' dislike of
some of their supporters) ; yet they are con-
tinually being accused of “disloyalty.” while
men of the Ruth type, who adopt the atti-
tude that the war must be won only by the
methods they favor, have their partisan
blither featured approvingly by the “loyal-
ist” press. ' .
“8.J.” : Re the war record of St. Peter’s
College, Adelaide (B. 7/6/T7). Ballarat
College reckons it has as good. Decorations
acquired bv former students include one
C. 8., three C.M.G.’s, two D.S.O.’s, two Mill- ;
tary Crosses, one order of St. Anne of
Russia, one D.C.M. and one Military Medal.
“Fryisan”: Re “Hussar’s” statement (B.
31/5/T7) that his father, known as Muktah
Pasha, was the originator of the jinriksha
in Japan. In 1884 I travelled from Yoko-
hama to British Columbia with the Rev.
Gcble, an American missionary, who in-
formed me that lie introduced the vehicle to
Japan, as his wife was an invalid, and there
were no other means of conveyance.
F—A—T.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I'm four feet high,' ami soon must be
Four feet across. There is no place
In all this world for me.
I cannot take a good man’s knee
With any kind of dignity.
I have no shape, no comely grace.
A dame I had. We're sundered far.
Increasing ounces mar
My hopes. We utter strangers are
Since I outgrew his motor-car !
Caught out last eve in heavy rain,
I heard a jesting wretch who said:,
“Hi, Miss, that gamp won’t do.
It is no fit. It pinches you!”
But keener was the biting pain
When I was nursing William’s head
At Auntie’s dance. He reached a kiss;
And then to sear iny bliss
I heard: “Call up another, Miss.
’Twill take two men to cuddle this!”
A butt and scoff, a heart I own
As big and tender as my check.
In secret 1 adore
Of handsome men at least a score;
But never one a trace has shown
Of love for me. E’en if he seek
A better half, no single gent.
Will show himself content
To take me, though I represent
Not half but eighty-five per cent.!
VICTORIA.
F. A.


1 ' >,
iSS
\ /vV'- • "
.. 4'.<■>.' /
Vvjf»£ *.. • •-
**'
@s
»
V • XP 7
/ . ...'
'<*»
S>7 A
1-
H&yy
liu..
’ f : # .4 i
*
■ $ . i 4
M
it 4 ’ n»‘
V". > .>.4
.y
• ; SS?
W-i
1
A
-Of
■ **y f '
H
A*
■
i £,. • /
.-■ ; t
*<9 i
v •<■
$3B
« jr ■■;<:
*** *•
#P <«V ',
r.y:
mWmSm
I;
■Mwwwnmi
.;•>;‘ V
EMF 1
V//A
AmGlmmm
f
A:
<r.
•Mill
•SiA
m
•mil
Urf
r^s4,.**iS>n^
a
■**
r-Hv*-'
: r!i i
•V
1
■ 'i
nai
<* 2iF
i
C-j
jS&y=.._,
*ss& .977
g ~ g ■ -
J '*&
. ‘ pi.
■ ' t l '..^y
-•
#1
X .
>•
More Than
The “Beale is more than a mere Player-Piano
on which you can correctly out all the rhythm
and harmony oC a musical composition.
It i£ an instrument ofextreme sensitiveness and so
utterly responsive that you express your musical
emotions almost without volition - instinctively
And at any time it may he converted for hand -
when it is practically impossible to tell
)m a “straight Piano.
We hnow you will appreciate the superiority of
the“Bea!ellt is Australian made.
,eafe
' G’O? UP
2fX> GeorcfeSl
Sydney^
Factory: 41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, SYDNEY,
SHOWROOMS: 333 George Street, Sydney. And at Bathurst, Orange, Lisinore, Newcastle, Goulburn and Wagga.
VICTORIA: Maples, in all Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: Johu Evans, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen St., Brisbane. Kent St., Maryborough. Flinders St., Townsville. Rockhampton. Sydney St:, Mackay. Cairns.


TEETHBii
BY FAR THE
3
A
'JV
The Best is not
too good for Baby
There are many medicines for (he various ail-
ments of the Baby. A great number of these
ailments arise from one cause Teething. The
medicine that attacks all the symptoms of teeth-
ing is the best and only standby tne mother has
■at this troublesome time.
Fishers Teething
Powders
have been made in Sydney for the past forty
years and have become established as a most
efficacious and trustworthy remedy to employ
during dentition. They are the one medicine
v necessary to every home that has a baby. Give
Fishers Teething Powders should your baby
show any of the following symptoms: Restless
at night. Feverishness, Diarrhoea, Constipation,
Nervous Excitability, Flushed Face, or Pers-
peration about the head. We guarantee them
not to contain Opium, Morphia, Calomel, nor
any injurious ingredients. Sold in boxes, 20
Powders, 1/-; 60 powders, 2/6
Buy the Best for Baby
Homoeopathic and Dispensing; Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY, N.B,W._
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment-the Perfected New
g
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model Ninety-six degrees 'of sound in eight
’"Stanly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit tlie hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mearo Ear Phone Co. Ino. ,45 West 34th St. New York
yjUSTKALIAN
"'== PRODUCTS
&
K 22
m
m
f!U
iil
hsk
* :
S£eNAVY
PICKLES
That ProLiant
— Product
with the
FruityFlmJour
- For -
Quality
Uncqpalkd
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
Alanu/adure d iu
J £ C 2
food SpeclaMs Sydney
TheCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St„ Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
dsfg
The BULLETIN
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
Tlie two most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They both have
Pigskin Seat, the “GS” short panel with
leather points, long- flaps and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
Stirrups, Girth, Leathers and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle. 3/6 Less If Stirrups not required.
SHORTAGK OF STlRRUPS.—Customers
will help if they will use their old stirrups
until matters improve.
FREIGHT FREE FOR CASH TO ANY
PORT OR RAILWAY STATION in N. S.
Wales. For 3/0 extra for casing we will send
freight free to any direct port in Queensland,
Victoria, South Australia or N.Z.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 12/6, Post 1/-
SADDLECLOTH 6/6, Post 1/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS,
393 George Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
Vaseline
v !V«d« U*rk Registered
Pomade
A delicately perfum-
ed hair dressing
which stimulates the
roots of the hair and
prevents dandruff.
Sold in glass bottles
and tin tubes at all
chemists and general
stores. Refuse sub-
stitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
/.//
J)
CALOX is a
s c i e n t i fic
]> r e v e ntive
of decay. No
brush o r
ordi n a r y
d e n t if rices
can so eifec
tiv e 1 y do-
str o y the
germs and
free the teeth from the
fermenting food particles
that lodge in recesses and crevices.
I"'
McK
THE OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER,
when moistened, liberates Oxygen,, the most
powerful of all purifying forces. This oxygen,
coming in contact with the filmy deposit on
tiie teeth, oxidises and decomposes it. It
penetrates to all parts of the mouth, killing
germs and thus removing the primary cause
of decay.
It purifies the mouth and breath,
cleans, whitens and sterilises.
Calox is as dainty as it is efficacious
and is mo t refreshing to use.
GET A FREE SAMPLE.
Test Calox for yourself. A
big sample tin will be mailed
to you on receipt of name
and address attached to this
advertisement. Slip in two
penny stamps to cover post-
age—Write Calox Dept. GEO.
WILLS AND CO. LTD., 480
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Calox is procurable at
V
ALL CHEMISTS AND
LEADING STORES.
F. 7.6.17.
USStJSSS^
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER
McKesson &. robsiih
II mw TODK.U S* J
u
SC
Rim Fire Cartridges for Target
and Game SKooting
IN choosing your rim fire ]? cartridges, whether
small bulleted caps or larger calibers, ally your
firearm witb a name ’ and trade mark tbat is tbe
surest guarantee to accurate shooting and non-fouling.
Tbe Remington ) UMG brand ■will
prove worthy of your confidence.
Obtainable from leading dealers and
gunmakers.
Descriptive catalogue
free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS
UMC CO.
D. D. BRYANT. Manager
Box £B6, Melbourne
sfd
Remmpori
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
. Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (.except of a hostile character ) will be
tal:en of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
(1.L.H.; Quite right. But we were talk-
ing about money which is awaiting investment....
.T. A. Hamilton: Right; thanks. We arrive at the
same conclusion, but by a different route. .. .Kelleher:
Don't agree with you. Think the Defence Depart-
ment has shown too much forbearance in that matter.
....Richard Proctor: Yes; but hypocrisy and cant
are a hard double to beat.... Lyle Penn: What was
the date of the issue?... .Jimmar: Wherever did you
get that type? If you will use it you will have to
wide-spaee your lines... .Jas.’ A. (Vic.): All right;
but we don’t know everything that was “published in
London two years ago.” By the way there was a book
on hogs published in London a few years ago. Did
you see it?....La Soif: They don’t strike u 5....
Ato: Mirthful as a mouldered (ofttn.... J.McK.: It's
got us beaten, but let the others try it: —
Oil, that I might sing in me,
And sing the songs of my heart;
And say in me all that might be,
What the gods to me did impart.
Shall it be given me to speak my part,
My individuate soul to express ;
Too late! the world grows void and dark,
No hope, nevermore, hence.... nameless.
. ...H.H.M.: Can’t imagine any fire except that of
rage being stimulated by it....Y.G.: Yarn matches
(he inanity you describe... . A.D.: Didn't manage. .. .
•Lit.: The “monstrosities’’ are the best, but none
up. ... M : They’re slight things and want move
perfect craftsmanship... .C.L.M.: Brightly done, but
not enough yarn.... Tantalus: Not our style....
<LK.IL: “Applegarth” doesn’t. strike u 5....
W.C.: No thrill in it.... Sentimental Mac: Makes a
gabbling sound like a flock of young ducks. .. .R.0.A.:
The usual tripe with all the usual trimmings. . . .
LM.B.: Not up J.McC.: “Dingo” has points, but
not enough.... Alec: Machine-made. .. .E. 8.: “Hyp-
notic Suggestion'' too carelessly done. .. . Ballybofey :
Bally nearly... .J.C.: Good honest talk ; but Protec-
tion is the key of the whole, and you didn’t mention
it.... ILL.: An idea in “New Rosary,” but you don’t
work it out. Try... .112804 : Long way to get to a
small jest... . 5.1.5.: Unpleasant yarn that doesn't
convince. .. . K.G.L.: One sample:--
Away o’er the sea so distant.
Amid the cannons’ deadly firing shriek,
Shells make the sky look brilliant —
For a moment, then over the bleak,
Death seems to prefound.
I.T.: When did you see any rambling stuff of
that kind published in this paper?. . , .8.C.: “Pests”
well done, but not attractive. ... L.L.: Obstetric yarn
mi use. . . .Siri: Much ado about nothing. .. .L.P.8.:
Nothing to entourage....M.: Come on, make an
effort to get past the nearly and give us something
that is altogether up ? C.F.P.: Ideas good; verse
o bumpy it shakes the teeth out of one. . . .M.E.F.:
The solemn paucity of rhymes spoils a slight thing
like that.... Peggy: Same old tripe; same old
wobbles. .. .E.H.S. : Says nothing. . . .Margot: It made
great-grandpa smile N.F.: The “Half-Caste” is a
mechanical sort.... Riverina West: Nothing....
1f.W.R.11.: Neither better nor worse than most popu-
lar-song words, but no use here R.J.J.A.:
“Charlie’s” a dull person... .M.C.: It didn’t take
much to make those kids giggle T. 8.: Poor Mom
day. .. .G.M.H.: Horrible. ... D.Y.W.: Doesn't get
there... .C.F.W.: Seems plain insanity... . Rovert:
Yes, we accept poetry. Will you send us some 1... .
F.T.H.M.: No hope for slovenly verse of that kind.
... .Grain o’ Sand: Not up. .. .Tom R.: Wobbles too
much in metre and in thought.... Office Boy: Misses.
. ...A.G.J.: One held for inquest... .Ato: Can't get
it.... C. 11.5.: Must go back F.T.8.M.: Not up.
E.S.M.: Not our style, but some feeling in it.
. ...E.R.P.: You’re a superior sort of cove....
N.F.S.: “The Traitor” is machine-made. .. .M.A.:
Can’t say. Better buy the b00k... .E.M.W.: Your
bright criticism is a criticism of a Red'Page criti-
cism ; it is not a refutation of the books criticised.
Why not read the book itself?....J. Marks: Red
Page reviewed “The Sentimental Bloke” 14/10/”15,
and “Ginger Mick” 19/10/’l6.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.E.S.: Green art... .J.W.: The drawing also goes
0rt....A.M., Jr.: Your ambition must drive you
further. No visible reason why you shouldn’t get
there, either. .. .Indispensable: We don’t like men
whose knees are down where their ankles should be.
. ...0.E.: Home it goes... .R.W.C.: Too rough....
A.P.D.: About 35 years too late... .M.J.M.: Doesn’t
appeal. .. .D.W.G.: Sorry all too crude....H.B.H.:
Strained humor—poor drawing... .M.H.: All careful
copies, aren't they? Posted back.... D.Y.W.: Your
splendid defiance of the law of perspective stirs us.
. ...E.G.: The incident may have happened, but
the drawing is impossible.
“Caroline”: Yon can say what you like
about Japs, but—well, how about this? _ I
lived for some time in a Westralian hotel
where a Jap cook was employed, and a very
good cook he was. One dinner-time I Was
told that he had been “fired.” Why? “Well,
y’ know,” explained the waitress, “water is
half a crown a hundred here and Surni
wouldn’t wash up in the'water the baby had
its bath in!”
“J. 8.” on the newest coronet: —
Waldorf Astor is one of the Birthday viscounts.
When lie showed sig'ns, 20 years ago, of settling in
England, American papers spelt it “Walled
orf,” to suggest the difficulties he was going to strike
while pushing into English society. However, he
and his M.P. son have got in with both feet. The
Astors bought the Pali, Mall Gazette and the
Observer (the leading London Sunday paper) and
turned J. L. Garvin, loose on them 10 years back
to preach Protection, prophesy a German attack on
England, and advocate Conscription. It was a better
policy for England than most Englishmen were advo-
cating, anyway. Young Astor, M.P., was ever ready
to accommodate philanthropic meetings at his house.
I was onee turned on to “secretary” a committee
of this kind, and while two footmen were placing
blotting-pads and fixings around the library table,
previous to the first meeting, there floated in a ray
of loveliness, gowned and hatted as angel girls might
hope to be hereafter. She chatted about the par-
ticular bit of human effort this committee was on
to, told the footmen we’d want tea, and vanished.
This was young Astor’s missus, who was a hand-
some widow in Baltimore, with rafts of money,
when he met her. Before he became active in war
work, Astor, minor, now a major, was an authority
on tuberculosis and an enthusiast for establishing
sanatoria for treating the poor.


“Window Dressing'."
WE had known for quite a long while that we were showing a clean pair of heels
in the matter of bonuses to our old friend the Australian Mutual I rovident
Society. But we never could get definite enough proof.
On the suggestion of the late General Manager, Mr. Richard Teeee (the ( it,\
Mutual wishes Mr. Teece every happiness in his well-earned retirement), in July. 191 _.
it was proposed to institute for a period of five years a . comparison of our respective
bonuses.
Apparently the results of the first year did not please Mr. Teece. because he issued
a leaflet entitled, “True Comparisons of Bonuses.”
Therein Mr. Teece let himself go as follows:
“A comparison restricted to the bonuses allotted during the first year or two only
of the existence of a policy is a device in some offices in an endeavor to attract busi-
ness.... Window-dressing is a well-known business practice for the purpose of attracting
the indiscriminate buyer....
“We might reasonably ask the question whether the first bonus in the case of the
City Mutual is not of use primarily for advertising purposes.”
Thus spoke the wise and sapient Mr. Teece over three years ago.
Well, we have been waiting for three long years to have a look at the goods in
the cases inside. We have been endeavoring during that period to get some authoritative
statement of the A.M.P. bonuses all round.
Now and again we did get an occasional peep at the bonus certificate of some
policy-holder, but it was always with fear and trembling it was shown us. a finger to
the lips, a half-scared look over the shoulder and a significant “Hush! Hush!”
But everything comes to him who knows how to wait.
In the 68th Annual Report of the A.M.P., submitted to the members a few days
ago, there will be found an authentic and official statement of the bonuses payable for
1917.
We print them below. Underneath are the City Mutual Bonuses corresponding in
every particular. Let that be thoroughly understood.
Now, we have no feeling for our esteemed old contemporary other than a friendly
one, but this pagan worship of 40 years, this A.M.P. idolatry, must cease. Life
Assurance and the A.M.P. Society have been practically synonymous terms much too
long.
Talk about “Britain and the Bible,” they are not in it with “Australia and the
Why, we have known old friends come to us for a loan, or for a position for their
relatives, or for some other favor, and when we have casually suggested the wisdom of a
life policy for the protection of their family they have enthusiastically applauded our
advice in something like the following terms: —
“By Jove! That’s good advice. I ought to have had a policy on my life long ago.
I shall attend to the matter at once. I will see the A.M.P. Agent to-morrow morning.”
Well, this sort of thing must stop. The Australian public is not more stupid than
it is given credit for, and it will begin to learn slowly but surely that there is another
pebble on the beach. Not as big a pebble, perhaps, but it is never the size of the
pebble that counts —it is the gold in it.
The City Mutual has absolutely safely invested funds and reserves of over a million
and a quarter sterling, which, goodness knows, are ample enough security in all con-
science for a policy of £5OOO, the present limit of the Society, and, when it is fully realised
that the City Mutual issues the most liberal policy in the world and gives the largest
bonuses of any Life Office on earth, the Society will no doubt get a fair share of the
best class of Life Assurance in Australia.
SPECIMEN BONUSES in respect of the Year 1916, allotted to Policies of £lOO each, effected under TABLE A, for the Whole Term of Life.
POLICIES IN FORCE FOR
*Boimses in the City Mutual do not vest till 3 years in force.
POLICIES IN FORCE FOR
* These Policies were issued prior to January, 1902, and carry a much lower rate of Premium.
THESE ARE POLICIES FOR THE WHOLE OF LIFE. NOW LET US COMPARE THE BONUSES ON ENDOWMENT POLICIES.
SPECIMEN BONUSES in respect of the Year 1916, allotted to Policies of £lOO each, effected under TABLE -) j|°} ENDOWMENT ASSURANCES.
Payable on attaining Age 60 or sooner in the event of Death.
POLICIES IN FORCE FOR
POLICIES IN FORCE FOR
‘Policies issued prior to January, 1902, and carrying a -lower rate of premium.
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd.
OFFICES-
ESTABLISHED 1879.
NEW SOUTH WALES (Head Office) : Intersection Hunter, Bligli and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
GEO. CROWLEY, Chairman and Managing Director.
G. F. DIAMOND, A.T.A., Actuary and Accountant. C. GOSTELOW, A.1.A., Assistant Actuary.
N. IT. D. HOPSON, General Secretary. E. H. PARSONS, Secretary for New South Wales.
VICTORIA (Head Office) : The Olderfleet, 175 Collins Street, Melbourne. WM. BENNETT, Manager. With Agency in Tasmania.
QUEENSLAND (Head Office) : 36 and 38 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. C. GEANEY, Manager.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA (Head Office) : Cowra Chambers, Grenfell Street, Adelaide. .V. GRAHAM WALD, Manager.
A. WANS BROUGH) . . , , r
G. H. JOHNSTON ( Associate Mana S'
iters.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA (Head Office) : St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
The CITY MUTUAL LIFE is generally recognised as being the Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office in Australia.
THE INVESTED FUNDS AND ANNUAL INCOME EXCEED £1,250.000.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel - Cit y 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Biol Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BIiISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON I
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) }
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, June 23.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, June 27.
Leaves Sydney, June 30.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, July 4.
Leaves Sydney, July 7.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, June 30.
‘Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking:. Public Companies, &c.
THE AUSTRALIAN!™OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £95,000
Directors: Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman; George
J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ;
Herbert R. Lysauiit, Esq.; Georoe F. Todman,
Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
General Manager: O. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. BROWN.
Manager: G. 11. HOWELL.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. FINNEY.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. JENKINS.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, lit. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.U.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BAN 1(
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; AY. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Afrloa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking jjo.
of Sydney, [united.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY,
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of ||nui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinarv Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
CRANTS DRAFTS %£%£&*£££
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest Jor
fixed periods, and
transact* all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadiaiv-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (X.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.). RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Reluming by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific. ”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TUIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Ho I ‘day In the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PEUFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
'or illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP Ct). OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
HU
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers-
SEVEN WEEKS' TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD aJ 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,894.980
£2,800 000
£3,894,980
£10.589.960
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.U., M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Byc!ney. London Office—29 Threadneedlo St., E.C
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cablp remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
•T. miQstFLT. FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
I MEAD OFFICE
gsfd
JanMitffralta
SYDNEY. I
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
< / Minimum At a.II Branches, and over Interest at jy
■/" Deposit 2600 Agencies at Post Offices P er annum /0
in Australia and Papua. up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMBS KELL, Deputy Gorernor Juvr. 19t6 DENISON' MILLER, Gorernor
THE
lINITCn insurance
UNIIkI/ COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture,&c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
. of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN IIAIGH, General Manager.
AVON
/sL TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres:
•22
•280
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
MORI ALTA, Saturday, June 23.
RUPARA, Saturday, June 30.
PARINGA, Saturday, July 7.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Transhipping to all other Queensland Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUILL « CO.. LTD.,
Agents, C BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Wimmera,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Victoria.”
“Riverina,” “Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACFIARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
-THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumhah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEV UK A” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British AtjstbalasiaN
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tb*
fplenhone, and obtain information without
charge.


KodstK pictures of
enable you to recall
every interesting event .
Both you and your children will treasure the
pictures you can make around the home with
a Kodak.
You can take splendid pictures of the growth and
progress of your bovs and girls, pictures of your
friends, pictures of vour pets, your garden, favor-
ite nooks and corners, and a thousand and one
other interesting subjects.
Besides, you need a Kodak to carry with you on your holidays and to
make snapshots of home to send your soldier friends.
The No. 3a Folding- Autographic Kodak is extremely popular ;
ideal for groups, views, portraits and so on; takes fine postcard
pictures— 5i x 3£ inches. Price £5/10/-
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/ = to £l5/21=
Ask for YOUR copy of a Kodak booklet.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
350-252 Queen St., Brisbane. Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next Melba Theatre), Valley.
37 Bundle St., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Blinders St.,
Townsville. Denham St., Roekhampton. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. Dixon St., also corner
Lambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z. 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St.,
Dunedin, N.Z.
r
■H I
a
: V: ■
I m
•, T . .* -w«
HHNhSLj
sspp
v»>
ffl ?
m
m
A Corset That Keeps
You Young.
The past four seasons have seen many youthful-appearing women. Short skirts, small hats
and high shoes do much toward a youthful effect, but it is your corset that gives you a really youth-
ful figure.
Gossard corsets are all designed to make your figure look better —more youthful. Models with
natural waist lines, low bust and flat hip and back effects make the change for you.
In this city the greatest number of youthful-looking women wear Gossards. Tou can look as young
as you feel. You can look as young as you are —if you insist upon being fitted to a Gossard designed
for your own figure type.
Ideal Tall and Short
Heavy Figures
Models for these two types reduce the hip
line from two to four inches, confine upper,
and lower back, and their style is perfect.
An expert corsetiere, who understands your
figure requirements, will deem it a pleasure
to fit you. Re fitted to-day.
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women
of AUSTRALIA by
Allan & Stark, Ltd., Brisbane. Farmer & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd., Melbourne. A. W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Harry Davies & Co., Ballarat. James Marshall & Co., Adelaide.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
In NEW ZEALAND by
J. Ballantyne & Co., Christchurch. .T. Ballantyne & Co., Timaru.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Christchurch.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Lyttelton.
The Drapery and General Importing Co., of New Zealand, Wellington.
George & Kersley, Ltd., N.Z., “The Economic,” Wanganui.
Herbert Hayes & Co., Ltd., Dunedin.
g
Ideal
Tall Heavy
Figure.
W. Lewis & Co., Invercargill*
Milne & Choyce, Ltd., Auckland.
Ideal
Short Heavy
Figure.
mm
sdfg


RESIDE and DINE at
The
Austr&li&
*
Hotel,
SYDNEY
Suites
de luxe.
Rooms with
Bath & Balcony.
European or
American Plan.
Private
Safe Deposit.
Spacious
Winter Garden.
Cuisine
par excellence.
Grill Rooms
a la carte.
Afternoon Teas
and Suppers.
Recherche
Dinners.
Weddings
Catered for.
Address: THE MANAGER,
Why Drive
purchase a
a “Four” when you can
“SIX” for the same price?
The GRANT SIX
Price £365.
'**■&'*
THE GRANT SIX-CYLINDER 5-SEATER, 21h.p.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Garage 8 Showrooms —162 CA/iTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. 8862.
The New Six-cylinder GRANT is America’s
Last Word in Excellence.
The exceptional value of the NEW GRANT SIX
is clear and unmistakable. The GRANT SIX is
the first six at its price'.
The GRANT SIX for 1917 has the largest,
handsomest body ever offered in a car at anywhere
near its pried; full five-passenger capacity; U-
doors, very wide; soft, deep upholstery; occupants
sit deep in the car; knees do not show abbve the
side lines, doors flush, no mouldings, top rail smooth
and rounding. Overhead valve motor, exclusive
Grant design —enlargedrefined; quieter, more
powerful, more economical. more flexible.
Equipped with easily-adtinstable tappets —no oil
leaks. Electric starter; light and horn; Cantilever
spring; full floating reaF.axle.
20 MILES to THE GALLON OF PETROL,
and many users get more; 900 MILES to the
GALLON OF OIL is the average experience of
GRANT drivers.
DEMONSTRATIONS ARRANGED AND FULL
STOCKS OF SPARE PARTS CARRIED.
Price - - £365 complete,
including Spare Tyre, Tube and Rim.
IN BANANA LAND
Yeates, who was defeated by Jim Page for
Maranoa, pushed into some out-of-the-way
places when electioneering in that vast area.
In a couple of the fastnesses they hadn’t
seen a political candidate for well over 10
years. This will make a lot of people sad.
For 10 years there has been a refuge for
the politically-weary; and the politically-
weary didn’t know it!
Joseph Daniels, of Swan Hill, missed* the
century by only 10 months. Born in Bristol
(Eng.) he migrated to Australia in ’54 and
set up in business in Newcastle. Then,
weary of town life, he plunged into farming
with his sons at Pittsworth in his 64th year.
The effects of a fall a few months ago did
what the awful climate of the North hadn’t
been able to accomplish.
“R.” ; “F. 8.” (B. 14/6/T7) makes the
statement that the Queensland Government
has bought stations on debentures and then
put the proceeds of cattle sales into the
general revenue. This would entitle any
Treasurer to six months hard. The facts,
however, are that trust -funds are debited
with purchases and credited with the results
of sales, and the consolidated revenue
doesn’t know anything about either station
or cattle.
Next Saturday at Albion Talk, Brisbane.
1000 women dressed in black, all of them
with relatives at the Front, will “line the
approaches to the racecourse and form a
perfectly silent guard of dishonor for race-
goers to pass between, while 20 drums will
beat a steady tattoo.” And on their
first day off the men who go to the
races will line up at the tea-shop and
the millinery counter and the fur depot, and
provide the same women, or a majority of
them, with the same kind of guard. These
are great times to “compound for sins we
are inclined to by damning those we have
no mind to.”
"8.J.5.”: Strawberry gets the champion
ribbon, and whenT go to the cattle sale I pay
through the nose for Strawberry’s calf. I
buy on the ribbon, but wake up to find that
a ribbon doesn’t produce butter-fat. 1 forget
to curse the Show Society for the Queens-
land system of judging, and blame the old
cow. Why does the Government not
jump with hobnailed boots on those subsi-
dised societies? No stallion which cannot
I'hoduce a certificate of soundness can be
awarded a prize, yet there are no restric-
tion's on dairy cattle. The Agricultural
Department, if it is not asleep, should cry a
halt to cocky. Every show should be com-
FROM A MERE TRADESMAN. TOO!
CECIL: “Note, Chumley, I call that personal!"
pelled to judge the dairy cattle not alone on
handsome looks but on ability at the
bucket and physical soundness. For the
male exhibits, the records of their progeny
could be produced to prove their worth, or
if they are too young the records of the
dam. Australia has got to splash itself with
a bit of scientific breeding, and not blunder
along the high road to national poverty. The
remedy is herd-testing, and until that is in-
stituted throughout the length and breadth
of the State we will go on producing stock
that will not pay for its feed. The business
must be tackled seriously. And that means
completely changing our methods. We’re the
greatest playing nation in the world. We
play at everything, from politics down to
running a hen ranch.
“8..T.5.” : “Bumble’s” explanation (B.
7/6/T.7) of Bananaland’s bad roads is not
complete. Many shires do not employ even
an overseer, the councillors reckoning it their
privilege and duty to control all works. When
the jobs are carried out by contract and
ratepayers are the contractors, the system
is at its worst. A ratepayer secures a con-
tract, say, to form and gravel part of a road.
When lie is finished the supervising coun-
cillor measures the work, and, on the prin-
ciple that because the job looks all right on
top everything must be O.K. underneath,
passes it. If the councillor is too particular
and makes critical remarks he can depend
on hearing about it next time the ballot-box
is brought into use.
Dead at 84, John Arthur Macartney, of
Newstead. Ilfracombe, a figure of long stand-
ing in tlie Queensland pastoral world. De-
ceased was the eldest son of the late Hussey
Burgh Macartney, first Dean of Melbourne.
Associate to Justice Barry for a few years,
he gave that up to run Waverley station,
cut from Rockhampton. Later, be ex-
plored virgin country all over the State, ex-
tending his travels westward to the Victoria
River, northward to the Arafura, and round
to the Gulf. All these pilgrimages he made
on horsebaek; and he frequently rode into
Rockhampton from Waverley, 129 miles, one
day. and back the next. From first to last
the tireless old man had been owner or part-
owner of 33 different stations.
The Historical Society of Queensland is
spending much time just now gazing on a
supposed portrait of John Kent, commis-
sariat officer at Moreton Bay when Brisbane
was in swaddling clothes. Kent is shown in
a swanking outfit supposed to be that of a
“Deputy-Assistant Commissary General,” a
job probably analogous to that of Govern-
ment Resident of Brisbane. Later, he edited
the North Australian (since defunct),
published in Ipswich.
“Belladonna” : Parson F. de M. Tubman,
now in France with Billjim. was preaching
in Mackay when he noticed a couple canood-
ling in a back pew. After finishing he
announced that “if the two people who had
that night been turning God’s Holy Ground
into a park” did not apologise to him after
service he would announce their names in
church next Sunday. Tubman then retired
to the vestry, and a dozen of his flock
poured in to apologise!
Come North!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the bleak south wind comes blowing from tlie
icefields at the Pole.
And the huddled streets of Hobart feel the blast;
When the sound of dead leaves falling easts a gloom
upon the soul,
Do not let yourself believe that summer’s past.
For on lowland and on highland,
From the Tweed to Thursday Island,
'ijhe.v are saying that good weather’s come at last.
When the Melbourne lights are hidden in a mist ot
chilly rain,
And the leaden Straits are whipped to wrack and
foam,
\\ hen overcoats and mufflers are in fashion once
again,
Remember you’ve a continent for home!
For the winter never reaches
To the white Caloundra beaches
Where the long Pacific rollers curve and comb.
When Sydney skies are leaden and winter tires
are lit,
And the Manly boats slink homeward through the
grey,
Suburban folk in Brisbane in their sunhy gardens
sit,
And the white-winged yachts skim over Moreton
Bay,
In the pleasant autumn weather
Spring and harvest go together, ■ . ''
And autumn lasts till summer-time, they say.
Tlie crowded boats crawl northward through the
sparkling tropic spas,
Where tlie phosphorescent fish like opals glow.
And tlie rover finds a playground where the water
will not freeze,
And the gales from tlie Antarctic never blow.
Dreaming on the wide verandah
Of the Barron at Kuranda
Or tlie beauty of tlie Atherton plateau.
The oranges are ripening in the mellow sun of .Time,
'Through the scented groves at night the fireflies
sail. '
And tlie shop-gills of Rockhampton shoot the breakers
at Yeppoon,
And they’re harvesting the cane at Innisfail.
The loaded trains go rushing
To the little mills for crushing,
And you cast away molasses by the pail.
There are some who love the winter-time and never
feel the cold,
And they’re happy when the sun has ceased to
shine,
So the walrus and the Polar bear by Arctic regions
hold,
And the Eskimo thinks furs and blubber fine.
Well, the cobbler to his leather,
But give me sunny weather
And a loaf beneath a mango-tree for mine.
QUEENSLAND.
VANCE PALMER.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June IG, 1917.
My Dear Tuargomindah,
TattersaU’s Handicap was run at Uagle
Farm to-day in brilliant sunshine and a bit-
ing westerly. Fur coats clustered on the
lawn, and long boots and hats the size o
a baby pancake were every wb ei e. >u ie
stand wore a drab look.
A back-home captain tells a story
of a trench raid. 1"'0 of his bird,
had been drinking, so be left them
behind in charge of a g^ rd-
party (19 men in all) then sneaked into th.
darkness and did their job. The raid oyer,
the officer counted his men and found he had
19 The prisoners had prevailed upon the
guard to let them go, and he, faithful soul,
had accompanied them.
The Brisbane Operatic Players, with
Leonard Francis threatening tlie orchestra
with Ills baton and Mrs. Arthur Iluntei
“producing,” gave “Paul Jones an an mg
on Friday night, and will keep it up for a
week. The proceeds go to the Red Cross
funds. Arthur Crane and Mrs. S. B. Harris
have the principal parts. Good work is also
done by Gunner Los Edye, Eva ’Webber and
Sam Learmontli.
Miss Veness, eldest daughter of A. A.
Veness. of Glen Innes, has been booked by
the eldest son of the McDougalls, of Cooyar
station. The wedding is fixed for July 18.
Rita Martin, a popular Toowoomba girl,
wears the usual diamond ring. The man is
Major \V. G. Forde, of the A.A.M.C. He
hails from Cloyne, Ireland.
The Wattle Day committee has decided to
work with the French Red Cross people on
July IS, and have a day of its own later on.
Alderman and Mrs. Campbell (Mayor and
Mayoress of Hamilton) had a silver cradle
thrust on them during the week by the mem-
bers of the Council. A small new daughter
supplied the excuse.
“Rosna” throws a line from London: —
Mrs. Fenwick, wife of a one-time squatting
Queenslander, has gone into the wilds of Piccadilly
and borrowed a house for Lieut. Roo and Capt. Corn-
stalk. The residence had one of its rooms decorated
at a cost of £2OOO a yard or thereabouts; but the
quaint owner seems to imagine we are a civilised
people, for he has lent it to Mrs. Fenwick and the
boys free of charge. It is now a club for Austral-
asian officers, with fairy-godmother Fenwick to oil
the wheels,
A suggestion for the establishment of re-
search fellowships at Queensland Uni. is
being considered, and if the necessary £BOOO
is forthcoming three will be created. One
will be for the blowfly pest in sheep, another
for the cattle tick and redwater, and a third
for the banana borer. Later, when this State
becomes very affluent, a Chair .of Economic
Biology will be founded.
Lieut. Roy Berry is the third member of
the household of W. Iv. Berry, of Sherwood,
to pay the Big Price. His brother and a
near friend who resided with the family
“went West” some time ago.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


Ileolin
Better than Leather
Xeolin Soles wear much longer than leather
soles. How much longer?
That depends somewhat on the sort of leather
Xeolin Soles are called upon to compete
with.
They will outwear the .very best of leather.
So scarce is all leather now, and so many are the demands
on the very best, that few of us get really good leather
soles.
That is one reason why Xeolin Soles have proven such a
godsend.
They give longer service than the best of leather soles—*
and they are always the same.
There is only one quality of Xeolin.
Wherever you see that word Xeolin stamped on the sole—and be sure that you
do see it —no matter whether the shoe be high or moderate in price, you re
getting the same high grade of sole.
A lower-priced shoe does not mean a lower quality of Xeolin. A higher-priced
shoe does not mean a higher quality of Xeolin.
You’ll find Xeolin Soles on shoes of several grades and many prices.
And the shoe is always a better shoe because of the Xeolin Soles.
Besides, Xeolin is waterproof, which the best of leather is not.
Shoes with Xeolin Soles do not need to be broken in—they are yielding and
flexible from the very first. And Xeolin Soles are good for weak foot
muscles—they strengthen, by exercising them.
For youngsters, Xeolin Soles are not merely desirable —they are indispensable.
The shoe bill lessens automatically the day that Xeolin Soles come into the
home.
1
I
• V
The public demand calls for a bigger and bigger quantity of Yeolin Soles every
day. The people in Australia who tried it first are beginning to talk—
and the proof of the sole is in its wonderful wearing capability.
Meanwhile, your shoe stores and repair shops have them —though every new
supply is quickly exhausted.
You need have no hesitancy in asking your retailer for Yeolin. Practically
every shoeman in the land gladly recommends it.
If lie is out of stock just now, you will invariably find that his later-coming
shoe styles will be Neolin equipped.
Every Neolin Sole and Half=sole
bears the Registered Name
rieolm
Better than Leather
—the Trade Symbol for a changeless
quality product of Goodyear.
The Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co. of Australasia Ltd
231 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
122 FUNDERS STREET, MELBOURNE
6 CHESSER STREET, ADELAIDE
If you are unable to obtain Neolin-soled Footwear from your regular shoe store, write to the nearest Goodyear Branch, and you
will receive a full list of Boot and Shoe Stores, Universal Emporiums and Clothiers who can supply you.
&
.
I
m
Not Rubber
Not Leather
Not Rubberised Leather
but
Fleolm
Better then Leather
Has all the Advantages of
both without any of the
Disadvantages of either.
Makes One Pair of Soles
Do the Work of Two.


Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don't wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take." Children
prefer them, a
Purely
vegetable.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Doee—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS,
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12 - per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
dfs
—Rifle Sights
are more essential to a
sure shot than the gun it-
self. MARBLE’S Sights
will greatly increase your
accuracy.
MARBLES Flexible Rear Sight
Folds down when not in use
but springs instantly into pos-
ition at the slightest touch.
Alignment rigid. Elevation
quickly adjusted.
gsdf
g
dsfg
Vickers - Maxim Front Sight—
is a peep sight, the aperture being lined with
our lustrous Popes Island Gold so that the target
is quickly and steadily seen. Write for illustrat-
ed folder on Rifle Sights, sent prepaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. CO.
611 Delta Ave., Gladstone, Michigan, U, S. A.
Cable Address "Marble ” Gladstone
Australian and New Zealand Representatives (138)
HARRY MOLDEH, Box 1349, SYDNEY
dsf
Nokhind equals
FOXs
Series
fo r wear*
fasf Di/e
Brifis/i Made
Avoid Spurious lmifah’on9.
LooK for fhe above
Trade Marks on every yard.
Ausfrj/idf) fteprese/>/d/iyfs
Box 1802 G P O
- Sydney -
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out. and the chances, are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
i
%
1 you
&L
UK
1/h?
i
w.'/;///*/ ww
THREE
SCORE EVERY TIME
SHIRTS COLLAPSE PYJAMAS
Made By Pearson LawLt? Richmond, Victoria.
- /A
Give your patronage to British
Hosiery—made from Austra-
lasian Wool
gsdf
Quality Stockists and Sacks
for Ladies, Children & Med
No other make has So fine a finish—
Jason has a texture like silk, ahd Surprisihg
comfort to the skin —yet Costs less than
many inferior brands.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the
Jason Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters
everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
Jason Underwear Co,, Leicester, J£ng,
A a 62 <l>
05390. —High-grade Keyless Lever Watch, fully jewelled,
with Patent Expanding Bracelet. Price, 9ct. Gold,
£7/7/-. 15ct. Gold. £lO/10/-
OUR DESIGNS
are so well selected, and the prices so economically
regulated, that the taste and pocket of the many
are easily met when choosing the Gift at Stewart
Dawson’s establishment.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Stewart Dawson’s
New Catalogue
is an Ex-
c el 1 e n t
Handbook
for the
Selection
of Gifts at
Economic-
al Prices.
K47.—Fine Dia-
mond and Plati-
num set 18ct. Gold
Ring, £l7/10/-
C62B.— Fine Dia-
mond and Ruby
set luct. Gold
Ring, £5/10/-
C 6700. —Fine
Pearl and Peridot
or Pink Tourma-
line set 9ct. Gold
Necklet, with Case.
Price £4/4/-
ONE LATHERING ONLY.
So keen is the blade and so finely tempered is
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
that it remains keen for an indefinite- period. Requires
but little stropping, and one lathering of the face is
usually sufficient. Shaves in a quarter the usual time.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
tie keep it in perfect'order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
“Fair Cow”: All the bulls don't come
from Ireland. A friend wlio has a bachelor
flat fronting a dusty city street is also boss
of a North of England house-steward. As
the" man was tidying up the other morning
the boss looked up at the open ventilator
and remarked: “By Jove, it's dusty here.”
"Aye.” said the North of England sagely,
following the boss’s eye, “if aught goes past
it c-ooms in.”
Walter Kiugsmill. Chairman of Commit-
tees of Groperland’s Leg. Council, has goite
to the Malay States to collect tropical olants
and animals for the Zoo. lie did good work
as honorary director of the Gardens while
Ernest I.e Soeuf was away on active service.
Kingsmill hails from South Aus., hut has
been in W.A. politics for donkey's years,
lie is a cheery, humorous soul, and one of
the best speakers in the State. In the old
days he was a prospector.
Sydney Telegraph calls upon every true
Fusionist to go before the Luxuries Board
and stop any potential interference with Sup-
ply and demand. Germany is trying to Witt
the war by stopping waste. The TelegrAPil
demands that Australia shall win by keeping
the leak wide open. How many people want
two guesses at what the end of such lunacy
would be? Already the importing mania has
brought Australia a long way closer to
economic ruin than the infrequent sahsage
has brought Germany. » »
Tasmania has its example, too. of the
curse of borrowlng*orgie«—the insanity
which drives Australian States to go out ort
a wild borrowing spree and then khoek Off
suddenly when the bubble bursts, leaving
railway lines half-finished and ending
nowhere. Two months’ freight receipts from
the Preolenna branch, which was to serve a
coal-mine but never got there* amount to
£2B —about £2 per mile !
“.T.G.”: tic the action of Schubert, the
New York th eatrieal manager, in shoving
ultra-effeminate males into the chorus of
musical comedy (B. 24/5/M7). This is no
new thing. Years ago a number of men
were in the chorus and ballets of U.S.
theatres. There were scores who for years
had posed as chorus girls, and hardly anyone
was the wiser. I’m told (but this I don’t
know to be dinkum) that more than one
sprightly chorus fairy over whom Aus-
tralian baldheads raved during the run of an
imported American show at one time wore
trousers.
Captain Guilfoyle, whose M.C. was pinned
on by the King at a special investiture in
Hyde Park lately, is the linest sapling
ever grown by his father, the late Curator
Guilfoyle, of Melbourne Botanical Gardens.
Young Guilfoyle’s stars were all won in the
field, and he got into the Flying Corps early
through a lucky meeting with one of the
Cecils. He married his pretty Melbourne
fiancee during a spell of leave.
“G.D.M.”: On this visit to the tJ.S.A. I
am more profoundly impressed. The Wealth
of the country overwhelms the imagination,
Vaults and trouser-pockets hold one-third
of the world’s stock of gold—nearly
£000.000.000. The national assets approxi-
mate forty thousand millions sterling; the
yearly income ten thousand million pounds,
while the public debt per head is only
£2 ss. lOd. These figures are taken from a
statement by the American Bankers’ Associ-
ation. To day this country has two-and-a-
quarter times as much wealth as Great
Britain and four times as much as France.
It is easily the richest nation in all history.
The public debt is a trifling £220 000.000;
that of Australia about £500.000.000. In 31
months the foreign trade balance has
attained the huge total of five and three-
quarter billion dollars. And yet,
give me two rooms in Anzacland, and they
can keep their billions.
A remarkable show was that got up by the
painters of London at Chelsea, the artistic
suburb, for a war charity. Ellen Terry, as
the local Spirit, introduced celebrities con-
nected with the neighborhood—all played by
carefully-made-up professional actors. The
old partnership of Swinburne, Meredith, Ros-
setti. Morris and Watts-Dunton had Carlyle
added to it, and, of all men, Hall Caine.
Australia’s old friend Eille Norwood played
Watts-Dunton. Another scene showed
Whistler painting, interrupted by Connie
Gilchrist with a skipping-rope dance. The
moderns came in with a skit on George
Moore, and a scene involving Sargent and
others, with a special song-and-dance in
honor of Augustus John.
“Braax": The saphead who has £lB to
spend on fur and doesn’t know the difference
between rabbit and seal shouldn’t go out
alone. Dozens of robberies which are less
apparent are the daily duty of the softgoods
salesman. Eiderdown quilts containing only
kapok are sold by almost every firm. Half-
cotton blankets are “beautiful all-wool
goods.” But the deadly swindle —the one
with pneumonia in it-—is the all-cotton vest
or singlet, known sweetly to the trade as
“Merino,” a name which naturally, misleads
90 per cent, of the shoppers. The meanest
one concerns good old Billjim’s socks. “Fin-
gering” was worth about 40s. a spindle until
somebody called for a hundred thousand
pairs of socks for the boys at the Front.
The last invoice I saw for the stuff was
625. a spindle.
“Rustler”: The Methodies at Moonee
Ponds (Vic.) are making the best of this
sinful world. In front of the old church in
busy Puc-kle-street they built a row of fine
two-storey shops, leaving a narrow passage
to the tabernacle at the rear. The rents
rolled in, and presently a new church was
built on another site away from the main
street, and the old building is used as a
hall. The combined rents from the hall
and shops now furnish a nice steady income
which keeps a full head of steam on the
church, praise the landlord !
“German Caps” : It always amuses me to
find a newspaper denouncing everything Ger-
man in its reading columns while proclaim-
ing its title in German text. That puzzling
type should now be scrapped, and legible
British block type substituted.


ml ilium
o=s
iiiminmiiimimtoJ
imnnwnnnnnnnnnnnnnnrn
imiiuiammliuuuimmiumwj
C 7
m
n v
L t
HUDSON Prestige Extends Around the World.
THE Hudson Super-Six in sales and prestige stands first among front-rank cars. It is now the lioldei of
all worth-while records. All the stock car records for speed. The 24-hour record of 1819 miles. The
best time up Pike’s Peak in the world’s greatest hill-climbing event. The holder of the New York
to San Francisco record, the supreme endurance test. In a hundred tests it has proved supremacy
and now during the past twelve months our entire attention has been devoted to appearance. We determined
that the Super-Six should excel in beauty as well as performance. Phis method of building motoi-cais as
given Hudson the world-prestige that it now enjoys. In every country where motor-cars are used you will
find a Hudson Dealer.
Hudson Motor Car Company Largest makers of fine cars in the world.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
A m ■ E_l I I rtQAM AI? n FTROIT.
Dalgety &, Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Lane Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson & Co.. 851 Hay Street, Perth.
j t Qrien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.
The
MORAL
*
r&r
Ntsj'-es
?Mitk !
rOX
m
1
asoic
OftlC
Disappointed !
The MILK is SOUR
Satisfied !
•NEVER SOUR—I USE
N ESTLE’S Milk ’
ALWAYS USE
NESTLE'S
Purest
and Best
MILK
Purest
and Best


g
r YOUR
FOOTWEAR
plays a most important part in your
attire, therefore it’s worth while to
exercise the utmost care in its
selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are always correct in style, perfect
in fit. and give the utmost in long-
service.
They are made in half- and full-
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide.
We illusrate a choice patent
Oxford Bal. with dull calf legs.
Price - 47/-
In higliest-grade tan willow calf,
same price.
Postage , extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 7th June, 1017.
Tenders for the Construction of a
Launch for Quarantine Service,
Fremantle.
fIIENDERS will be received until 12 noon
I on Wednesday, 18th July, 1017, for
the construction of a Launch for Quarantine
Service, Fremantle. Separate tenders should
be submitted for (a) Hull, (b) Machinery
and Accessories.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette,
obtainable at any Post Office, or at the Office
of the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
ACCOUNTS DUE BY THE GOVERN-
MENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
ALT. persons who have claims against the
Government of the Commonwealth are
requested to apply to the Department which
incurred the liability, on or before Friday,
29th June, so as to avoid inconvenience to
themselves and the Department.
No accounts will be paid on Saturday, the
noth of June, after 11 a.m.
JOHN FORREST,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
C. J. CERUTHY,
Assistant Secretary.
R.A.N. Wireless & Electrical
Workshops, Randwick, N.S.W.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posi-
tion of Forejnan Armature Winder at
the above Workshops.
Applicants should have experience in A. C.
and D. C. Machines, be conversant with the
latest Workshops practice, and must be able
to efficiently organise and supervise the
armature winding department.
Salary to commence, £5 per week.
Applications, accompanied by copies of
testimonials, should be forwarded to the
Manager, Wireless and Electrical Work-
shops, Randwick, N.S.W., to reach him not
later than 15th July, 1917.
TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN DREDGING CO. N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
•\TOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
JLH Dividend (the 25th) of ten per cent., or
two shillings per share, amounting to £15.000,
has been declared, payable on 22nd July,
1917. and for this purpose the SHARE
REGISTER will be closed from 15th to
22nd July inclusive.
Bv Order of the Board.
11. J. WISE. Manager.
Dated at Hobart this 15th day of June, 1917.
Amusements.
Harry Itickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIV O 1.l T HEATH K. SVI) N E V
EVENINGS 8; MATINEES WEDS. AND SATS.
An Epoch in Vaudeville.
COLOSSAL SUCCESS OF MISS
ADA RUUV U,
World's most famous Comedienne and a brilliant
Vaudeville Co.
“I’IVOI.I THEATRE. M KLIIOCRNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MISS
NULL IE STUWART
as
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
In Serial Form. Vaudeville in Addition.
It I T E It lON T II E A T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
FOR EIGHT NIGHTS ONLY.
MARIE TEMPEST,
England’s Greatest Comedv Actress,
in SOMERSET MAUGHAM’S Witty Play,
PUN ULOPU,
GRAHAM BROWNE in association.
HE It M A .1 E S T Y ’ S. s V It N E Y.
Direction .1. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
THE MOST WONDERFUL DRESS DISPLAY EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
CANARY COTTA GU.
P
The last word in loveliness and liveliness.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales Callose’s.
A LAC E TIIE A T ItTc! SYI) N E Y
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
J. and N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY CO.
in
TURN TO THU RIGHT.
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
pAI. A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Commencing SATURDAY, JUNE 80.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES and JACK WALLER present
LOOK WHO’S HURU.
A KALEIDOSCOPIC INNOVATION.
Glowing with gladness of the season when the
heart is young.
Plans at Nicholson’s Tuesday, June 20.
V
TBIANGLE I’LAVS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporatins: West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You .haven’t seen_ S. v dney,,uutil you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
"CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/■
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Mji.i.kh, Managing Director.
Eli. MAJESTY’S TREAT RE, A! ERROL' RN E.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE PINK LADY.
The Greatest Triumph of the Royal Comic Opera Co.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
II K A T K E R O Y A U, AIELROL RN E.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
.1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
CYRIL MAUDE
in his world-famous production of
GRUMPY.
RING’S
THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
Direction J. k N. TATT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Australia of
THE WHITE CHRYSANTHEMUM.
A Musical Extravaganza from the Criterion
Theatre, Londdn.
Prices: Res. Stalls 6/-, Res. D.C. 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
If my illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements. ...
piiIXCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 23.
BEX 3. FILLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun;,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLA* WILKIE
THE STORY OF THE ROSARY.
The Success ot' Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and !/•■
I I) I T <) K I U M, M EI-BO C R X E.
Direction J. & X. TAIT.
NEXT SATURDAY, 23rd JUNE.
Reappearance of the World-Famous
CHEiiNIAVSKYS,
LEO, JAN and MTSCHEL,
in a series of Brilliant Xew Recitals.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plans at Allan’s.
|y| A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
WtLLtAM FOX'S
AuglltA FrEsentaTioN.
THIS HONOR SYSTEM,
IN TEN SEETHING REELS.
jyjELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, YITAGRAPH, PA THE,
WORLD, EOX and SELZNICK.
gRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, II a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and Gd.
PLEASURABLE
ONROAD
sfdg
is now Ob-
tainable fit
no cost of
energy alid
very small
one of
money, by
using a
Smith Auto Wheel,
the; instaiitl,vuietachable Motoi* Wheel.
Oh sale bj" :11l the folltM’ihft fii'ihsi
Write 01* call fob particulars.
Darby Auto supplies Co. i*ty. t Elizabeth
St., MelbottrOe; ft. ft. RUSSack, Ed#e-
eliffe,' Sydney: iMiilip Frdnket & Co.»
Edward St., Brisbane: Byes and Crowle
Etd., Pirie St., Adelaide i >tr. Oeo.
Carter. Western Australia.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of eases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Rox, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
/boug/i( them at
FawfaxG/tobert*
SOyears
si
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
Five Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l2.
Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
choicely cased,
£lB.
Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£B/8/-
Three Fine Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum, choicely
cased, £2O.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 (Si. 25 HUNTER STREET.
Business Notices.
tix^tfunxi
CURES ECZEMA.
THE VERY REVEREND FATHER TRaANU.
M.S.H., of Randwick Presbyter?-, in a letter to Mi.
S. Fielder, dated May 21, 1017, writes: I ambappv
to testify to the wonderful result of your Eczema
Cure. One of our missionaries from Papua came to
Sydney a few months ago suffering from a severe
attack of Eczema. 1 advised him to try vour remedy
—Exzerma —and tiie result has been beyond our
expectation. He lias now returned to the mission-
field of New Guinea quite cured.” ft
All Chemists & Druggists, or
6. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
51; 2/6
r-i
A £l4 Machine
feb. £8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
>
FOR
QUICK RESULTS
use:
(dPILUMINE
If you dei itle to shaVe yout
Moustache don’t leave off using
CAPILLAftISTE. It will strengthen
the hail-roots in the meantime*
and the Moustache will be more
luxuriant wheti you decide to grow
it agaiin
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FEEE.
CRAIG S AITKEN,
654 George St. ]
SYDNEY.
4
V
V.
m
t
3v
“Nerves”
Onr nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain —known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.”' Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump ”
—you get irritable —you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
dsf
The Wine of Life
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
‘ Wincarnis ’ for ‘ Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in K upland by
COLEMAN & CO.. Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney', N.S.W.


Healed fey Cuticura
Trial Free
"Some weeks ago my baby had an
eruption form on his head. As the week
/Ttrs-'
Si
went on I noticed he
had some more erup-
tions. They itched and
he scratched them very
much and they dis-
charged.
“I noticed cures by
the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment so I bought
some and in less than a
fortnight the eruptions were all gone.”
(Signed) Mrs. A. Childs, “St. Leon,”
Charles St., Greenwich, Aug. 21, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SP£CMUS£
TWO
LINE 3
s
# TS
-WOITF
FOP
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS^
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
gsfd
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY.
V /i4WTER S T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for-it.
CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable
m
i
ELEY Grand Prix
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
gd
ELEY
•450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
sfg
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L- LONDON
w 4
Mim
# m
wWf\\\
fio w 2
,"
avTO Westelox ■
X\\rK B,GBEN y|
®6M
Every Inch a Clock
Big Ben stands
erect —feet plan-
ted firmly—hands
in place —case
gleaming brightly,
face clean, honest,
alert.
Big Ben obeys
orders. Set him for
seven he rings on
the minute.
Sturdy, strong, lit for
service. A dependable
aide—an example of the
several virtues. A trust-
worthy alarm, a precise
timekeeper. Substantial
handsome, mechanic-
ally right. He is good
through and through.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily-read dial—a cheer-
ful, deep-toned voice—large, comfortable
winding keys—a light running movement
with watchlike escapement—an alarm
that calls steadily for live minutes or
intermittently for ten. 15/- at all clock
dealers.
La Salle, 111, U.S.A. Western Clock Co.
OtherWestclox: Baby Ben, iph; A merica, 6j-; Sleep-Meter, Bj6;
Makers of Westclox
Boy proof Watch, 616.
rri HE thing that the people should have
JL been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
«■
The Labour of
«■
/T
JBsxo"***
i£& 4s »;
ss^®
*as / •
pf;.
£
s w 1
ym
i*9r
or
. di?
/ J'3;’| f /■ i
\\!|f
) V f t;
■■ U P
JPP-1 i■£'
j I n
w
:-:•***
B
**
/>■: ■
i«wS»
■s&rpiF
K,
C, «</rjO
C 2
VW
c.*o
oeffi
m
P\:
■ ■■-.*
VOC 1
Plume
Benzine
is the clean, power-
ful Spirit that drives
your car farther and
fastest. Most Motor-
ists know that 'Plume 1
is a synonym for
“Easy Starting—Sweet
Running—More Mihs”
Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. Ltd.
P.R. I
The Inky Way.
“Harrison O.”: There dwells a motley
horde of pests upon the Inky Way, and over-
worked sub-editors still meet them day by
day. They do not write with fountain-pens,
but stencils use instead, and so in their
obitu’ries no one is ever dead. Their vic-
tims mostly “pass away,” or else they “cross
the bar,” or “join the great majority.” The
girls they write of are not ever, say, “good-
looking,”' “pretty,” anything like that;
they’re always “prepossessing,” and “embon-
point” ’s never “fat.” And oft a “conflagra-
tion” they describe, but ne’er a “fire.” Of
“bibulants” and such-like words they seldom
seem to tire. But persons branded “bibu-
lants” are never drunk, please note; “inebri-
ated” is the word on which their authors
dote. And e’en though writing “specials” is
his temporary game, the copy of the bloke
who uses stencils is the same. If set to
write an “intro.” to the Cup he’s bound to
say, right at the start, that “All roads led
to Flemington to-day.” And if a football
struggle he reports he’ll sell his soul before
he’ll tell the public that somebody kicked a
goal. A man may “notch a sixer,” or a
“major point” may score, or, mayhap, “find
the opening.” The same dull stencil bore
will never once be guilty of referring to the
“ball” ; it’s “leather,” “sphere” or “pigskin”
if he mentions it at all. Oh! I could keep
on going thus till 1 wore out my nib- —or, as
the stencillers would say, “extend the list
ad lib”; but “pressure on our space pre-
cludes” me now from doing so, yet ere I
stop I’d like to say one other thing I know:
The stencillers without a doubt will«nention
with a hiss that I’m a poor, “disgruntled”
cow for w'l'iting stuff like this!
* * * *
“Gallery Hand” : In the desperate struggle
to make ends meet since the Federal Arbi-
tration Court laid down a more reasonable
wage for pressmen, all sorts of expedients—
some very contemptible—are being resorted
to by proprietors. Most of them will bring
their own reward, and I expect any day to
hear bitter wails, particularly from Brisbane.
There the pooling system has been put into
operation. One paper makes itself responsi-
ble for certain courts (say), another repre-
sents the syndicate at some other stock job
and proofs are swapped. This allows a man
or two to be “fired,” but it doesn’t always save
trouble or money, as the bunch found out the
other day when they all fell into the same
error. The pool system, whether worked by
the employers or the staff men, is a fool sys-
tem. There’s no check ; and a check on copy is
just as important as getting copy. Pooling
used to be extensively used in Sydney in
court work, mostly because it was impossible
for men to cover their engagements. To be
handed out five, six and even seven courts
was common, and while it was supposed to
be an office sin for a reporter to take from
any other man’s copy, the offices knew that
that was the only way the work could be
done. Some of them paid through the nose
for their acquiescence. If the Brisbane
papers escape trouble they know a lot more
than I credit'them tvitli.
* * * *
It all depends on the hand that is pulling
the public’s leg at the moment. When, the
other night, Verbrugghen, of the N.S.W. Con-
servatorium, talked about Schubert’s
“Trout” Quintet, the Sydney Telegraph’s
soulful musical reporter got on to it like
this : -
Tlie song mirrors the mind of the poet contemplat-
ing the lively trout in a clear, sparkling brook in
the sunny morning. Then comes the ensnaring
angler and the inevitable tragedy.
Down the same column a food-consuming
Goth got on to a successful cruise of the
trawler Gunundaal; and this is how he did
it: —-
One haul alone produced over 70001 b. weight of
fish. Another large haul, consisting mostly of dog-
fish, was lost when the net was at the surface, as
the weight of the dogfish broke the belly r of the net.
* * -* *
“Xim” : The Parkes (N.S.W.) Examiner
holds the record of being the only country
paper in the Commonwealth which refuses to
accept liquor ads. For over 20 years it has
never inserted an appeal to cumanavanother.
* * * *
When, 12 months ago, the Y.M.C.A.
wanted a man to organise a press service
through Australia primarily in the interests
of its army and navy department, and in-
directly for the benefit of the lads at the
Front, it made no search of suburban taber-
nacles for a professing Christian. It took the
applicant whose claims appeared to meet its
practical requirements, and trusted to Provi-
dence for the rest. Thus it acquired D. G.
Macdougall, a pressman with 22 years at the
game as a chief credential. A score of years
back Macdougall was a protege of F. W.
Ward —of the beard —on Brisbane Courier,
and, later, in the shadow of the same whisk-
ers, he sub-edited the Observer until he
struck the track for Melbourne.
Bullant Mclntyre, of The Southern
Cross Times (W.A.), is a mere gentle
zephyr these days. For instance:
It strikes me that the officials of our Government
departments are taking a mean advantage of me
because I am paralysed; but they had better beware
and not drive me to murder, for as sure as I live
I shall murder either the buyer of my assets or the
Minister of the Crown who sanctions my persecution.
The time is ripe for a revolution in this country,
and I shall be in it, for bitter experience tells me
that the curse of our paltry Parliaments can only be
cured by bloody deeds.
* *
Busy little Sumner Locke, when last
heard' from, was in the wilds of Arizona
bottling local color for a Yank novel. Mum
Dawson, Boss.” her Australian play, is to
be produced in Melbourne later in the year.
IN WARTIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am knitting a sock,
So I can’t write a sonnet.
I have a new frock
And there's no time to don it
(Some hard may be shock-
Ed at that rhyme on “sonnet").
I'm knitting a sock
See my eye close upon it;
It’s eight of the clock
I must get cook to con it.
I am knitting a sock,
Will it turn out a sonnett
X.s.w.
F.F.


Of Interest
to All Users of
POWER
TRANSMISSION
APPLIANCES.
How easy it is to order your requirements
when you have a priced and illustrated
book of those requirements before you.
Our new illustrated and
priced book of
Power Transmission
Appliances
is just printed.
Free to all.
Shall we send you one ?
AFPliersons'
Proprietary Limited
MACHINERY, IRON & TOOL MERCHANTS,
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE,
Bathurst Street,
SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Est.
1860.
Edison BlueAmberol
Records for June
dfs
Julia Heinrich and Albert Spalding each contributes a
selection to this month’s Concert Records —and the
mention of their names is sufficient to convey to the
minds of phonograph owners- the exceptional quality of
these two records.
“Winter Song,” by the Criterion Quartet, is a delightful
piece. “Are You Half the Man Your Mother Thought
Ymu’d Be?” (W. Van Brunt) will prove highly popular,
as also will “Spirit Flower” (E. B. Randolph), “Baby
Shoes” (Eliz. Spencer) and “Marcia Roma” (Creatore
and his Band).
“Johnny Get a Girl,” sung by such a great favorite as
Billy Murray (and chorus), will get a big reception.
Every item is a good one. Get YOUR orders in early.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
28241—Gigue ( Rusto ) and Pieri'ot-Serenade
(Alberto Randegger, Jr.). Violin,
piano accompaniment by Andre -
Benoist. Albert Spalding.
28244 —Spring Morning (//. Lane Wilson)-.
Soprano, orchestra accompaniment.
Julia Heinrich.
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2900 —Babes . in the Wood—Very Good,
Eddie. Soprano and tenor, orchestra
accompaniment.
Gladys Rice and Walter Van'Bni'nt.
2921 —Arc You Half the Man Your Mother
Thought You’d Be? Tenor, orchestra
accompaniment. Walter Van Brunt.
2925—Kangaroo Hop—Fox Trot. Xylophone,
orchestra accompaniment
Lou Chiha “Frisco.”
293S —Johnny Get a Girl. Tenor, orchestra
accompaniment.
Billy Murray and Chorus.
2944 —-Keep Off the Grass. Banjo, orchestra
accompaniment. Vess L. Ossman.
2946 — My Bonnie, Bonnie Jean ( Harry
Lauder). Orchestra accompaniment.
Glen Ellison.
2947 Marcia Roma. Creatore and His Band.
2950 — Missouri AValtz. For Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
2951 My Grandfather’s Girl. Tenor,
orchestra accompaniment.
: George Wilton Ballard.
2952 — Winter Song. Male voices, unaceom- •
panied Criterion Quartet.
2958—There’s a Quaker Down in Quaker
Town. Baritone, orchestra accompani-
ment. Joseph A. Phillips.
2955—Spirit Flower. Tenor, orchestra
accompaniment. Emory B. Randolph.
2957 Baby Shoes. Soprano, orchestra*
accompaniment. Elizabeth Spencer.
2958 — Chateau Three-Step. For Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
2959 When Irish Eyes Are Smiling—-The
Isle o’ Dreams. Tenor, orchestra
accompaniment. Walter Van Burnt.
2961 On the Hoko Moko Isle Medley—
One-Step. For Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
2962 — Sweet Cider Time, When You Were
Mine. Baritone, orchestra accom-
paniment.
Joseph A. Phillips (introducing Helen
Clark in .the Refrain).
2965 —Oh! How She Could Yaeki Hacki
Wicki Wacki Woo (That’s Love in
Ilonolu). Orchestra accompaniment.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan.
27004 —Pot Pourri.
Garde Republicaine French Band.
27047 —En Pologne—Mazurka.
Garde Republicaine French Band.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting -Powers.
gs
84. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 4.10-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both- elioke; weight,
about 541 b Freight paid, £4/8/-
S 3
y :
836. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8X. Guns,
top lever, ease-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib,^j - ebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7J to 8 lb., 10-gauge 7i to 7$ lb.—
12- or 16-gauge, with, 30-inch barrels £2/9/6
Postage: 3/- N.S.W.. 5/8 Inter-State.
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels
Freight paid, £2/17/6
gdf
g
sdf
837. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt., high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders', weight of 12-gauge
7i to 8J lb., IG-gauge, to 8 lb. —-
12- or IG-gauge, with 30-inch barrels
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels
Freight paid, £3/10/-
Freight paid, £3/17/6
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., post free.
gsfdg
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.Li.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7Jlb Freight paid, £5/15/'
sdf
J 837. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2Jin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight, 7Jlb.
poo . . Freight paid, £B/15/-
838. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun, 12-gauge,
similar description to 837. Freight paid, £B/15/-
Si
100 yards; will kill at 500.
818. AVinchester Automatic Repeating Rifle,
1903 Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about s*lb.; sighted point blank to
Freight paid, £5/7/6
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE.
British=made.
Box of 5, 2/6 post free.
gsfd
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, 77/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, 80/-
.With i-Octagon Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, 85/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres,
central fire, full or half magazines, 20in% round barrel; weight, about 531 b. Freight paid, 70/-
g
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892
Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes
25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges; weight 511 b.—
Freight paid, 77/6
Same as above, with round barrel Freight paid, 72/6
We Repair All Kinds of Cuns and Rifles
New edition illustrated Firearms and Sports List ( Catalogue Bl), also ‘Sure Catch
Anglers' Guide (Catalogue B 2 ), Post Free to am address. Write for one or loth
lists. They are money savers.
1C
Australia's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS '■
AND TOBACCONISTS
sfdg
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane?


Ms
asm
WATCH THE
SMILES GROW
When you Banish
the Coughs and
Colds with
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
It won’t take the folks at home long
to notice the difference when they
start to use Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. For New Discovery is known
far and wide as an unequalled Cough
Remedy. It’s the finest remedy you
ever used—bar none. When you
use it you can be mighty sure that
Coughs and Colds will soon vanish.
No wonder, though, for Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery has been compiled on
scientific lines, and is designed to
relieve the cold without upsetting the digestive
organs. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the
quickest, safest, and best-known remedy for
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Bronchitis, and all
Throat and Chest troubles. It is a remedy
that can always be relied upon.
Don’t Forget to take a Bottle
Home to-night.
Price 1/6 and 3/-
fsdgfds
g
sfdg
D» Sheldons
NewDiscoveih
sdf
gsfd
’A tO
(.Pronounced Jell -Lloyds)
T\o YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —“ Impoverished f blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron Jelloids’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment.’’
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS No. 2A
For Ancemia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS No. 7.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3 h
NAZETHA
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive effert in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma (Si All Chest
Affections.
1/6 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
V\
I
p
%
KSjf \
[2
The Vigil.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rain is falling on the roof.
I And no sound else disturbs the wife,
Except the trees and winds at strife,
Now near at hand and now aloof;
But list’ning, leaning evermore,
She waits a knock upon the door.
Her hair is braided round her head;
Her eyes are large and fierce and bright,
Her shapely throat is soft and white ;
And on her mouth there burns the red
Of that rich, storied gem that shone
Upon the breast of Prester John.
Upon the couch her husband lies.
How is it that he lies so still ?
Why sleeps he there so pale and chill,
The lamplight on his lidded eyes?
Has she not fire and more than fire
To thrill his flesh with hot desire?
Anon she lifts her rounded arms
As though to joy that she is free;
And her large eyes exultantly
Light up, as when the dawn-glow charms
With roseate lights that gleam and glance
Twin lakes to sudden radiance.
The rain is falling on the roof,
Yet, though her ears are open wide,
There is no other sound outside —
No fall of foot, nor tramp of hoof.
And on his couch with lidded eyes
The husband, cold and pallid, lies.
The midnight sky is wild and black
And drenches earth with ceaseless tears;
And now it seems to her she hears
Hoof-strokes upon the sodden track;
And now she rises, sweet as sin,
To let the late night-strayer in.
The lamplight gleams upon his face,
And glistens on his reddened spur;
He stretches out his arms to her
And folds her in a rude embrace
How can it be the husband lies
So still, with heavy lidded eyes?
Perchance he neither sees nor hears,
And sleeps unmoved by chance or change,
And yet. .. .and yet, it seems so strange.
If he be dead there should be tears.
Not love nor smiles, nor midnight bliss,
Nor mbuths that marry in a kiss.
The loud winds thrust upon the door,
The raindrops drum upon the roof,
The trickles from a waterproof
Make little pools upon the floor;
But two in one—the world apart —
They stand, heart throbbing back to heart.
Anon she says: “He died this morn.
He did not die a whit too soon ;
Life’s day, alas, makes towards its noon.
He should have died when love was born.
He should have died long since. And now
Kiss me again—my mouth, my brow!”
The winds no more the woods arouse,
The rain has ceased, the night is still;
Her peaked chin resting on a hill,
The moon looks down upon the house.
Wherein, stiff-limbed, cold lies the dead
What time Love whispers by his bed.
Indifferent with marble brow
He lies while hour on hour goes by ;
He does not see the lovers nigh.
Nor hear the deathless love they vow.
Did he so heed perchance a smile
Would flit across his face the while.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Postponed Hour.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was five minutes to two on the
morning of New Year’s Day when
John Nisbet gingerly let himself into
the hall. He had fearfully noticed that the
light was still on in the bedroom. All the
way home from seeing the New Year in—
or two New Years in, John wasn’t
certain which—he had hoped that his wife
would be asleep. He had sworn off; he was
manfully, though in a rather wobbling way,
following the King; but this night he saw
so many tracks to folfow that he was slightly
confused. And now, as he hung up his
latch-key aud tried to insert his hat in the
keyhole, his last hope of a restful night
was gone. That light in the bedroom shone
with a baleful glare: it reminded him hor-
ribly of his wife’s accusing glance.
And then he dimly heard a curious sound.
It was not his wife snoring. It was a dull
noise, rather like the vague sound that pre-
cedes an earthquake. He braced himself
unsteadily; but there was no earthquake.
Then he" heard another curious sound, a
whizzing sound that reverberated through
the silence. It seemed to come from every-
where ; it filled the night with its eerie
whisper. He pulled out his watch; the
time was 2 a.m.
“Daylight Shaving Bill!” he muttered
thickly, and unsteadily switched the hour
hand round to 3. The faint noise that the
revolving hand made seemed like a ghostly
echo of the mysterious whisper in the air.
Then with nine explanations on his lips,
he carefully opened the bedroom door. The
room was in darkness! And when he
clumsily lit a match, he found his wife sound
asleep. , ,
/‘Shaved !” he thickly muttered. Shaved
by Daylight Shaving Bill!”
The same night Reggie Bithell was seeing
Lena Waistcoate home. It had been a jolly
dance, and Reggie had toasted the New
Year several times. So had Lena. During
that hilarious supper Reggie found himselt
contemplating Lena with a new interest.
He had always thought her a pretty girl,
nice and- cosy to flirt with. But Reggie
was a wise youth: he wasn’t going to tie
himself up in marriage for years yet; what
he was after was a good time. At the supper
everybody 7 had been intensely patriotic. Some
of the patriotism, or maybe it was some ot
the wine, had fired Reggie’s heart, and
during the extra “extras” that followed —
all of which Reggie had with Lena he said
things to her that might well have set the
brains of a clever little thing like Lena
Waistcoate thinking rosily about her future.
Yet when Reggie found that somehow it had
been arranged that he would walk home
with Lena, he felt a shudder of fear. In
that mood, and with such a nice girl as
Lena by his side, he would have to be caie-
ful, very careful, not to commit himself
The next thing, if he didn't take a pull
on himself, he would find himself proposing,
to her. So as they set out he summoned
all his resources to steer a straight course,
for safety. It was so late, too. As they
came to that lonely part of the road he
looked at his watch. It was a few minutes
to two. Then, suddenly, Lena stumbled
over a stone, and would have fallen if he
had not caught her in his arms. And while
he held her the Town Hall clock struck
two. Or was it three? In his muddled con-
dition he could not be sure.
The next thing that happened was a
whizzing sound in his ears, and then Lena
kissed him comprehensively on the mouth.
And, still with that buzzing noise in his
head —or was it in th§ stars? —he heard
Lena saving. “You’ve made me so happy,
Reggie, darling. I never knew you cared
for me.”
Strangely enough, he did care; and he
told her so. Ills kiss was even more com-
prehensive than hers. And with a strange
wonder in their hearts they went on. At
the door there was a prolonged farewell;
and Reggie as he turned away heard Lena s
mother sleepily saying:
“llow late you are, Lena! Why, it s
after three!”
* * * *
Constable John Chuck was on his beat
that same night. He had seen the hew
Year in without the assistance of any liquid.
The only happiness in his mind was the
thought that owing to all the clocks being
put on at 2 a.m. he would be relieved an
hour sooner. It was just a few minutes
before two that he saw a figure, bent beneath
a bulging sack, emerge unostentatiously
from a back gate and stroll casually down
the street. In an instant John Chuck had
started in pursuit, but the stranger evidently
preferred his own company, and began to
run.
The clock struck the hour, and with the
blood singing in his ears the policeman
stopped. His prey had vanished from his
sight. Curious! There was no doorway
into which he could have escaped. But there
was no sign of man or sack. “A clean
getaway!” he sighed, perplexed. He felt
dizzy and disgusted. Then his puzzled eyes
sought the face of a clock. “Past three!”
he muttered. “Be the saints, hev I been
chasin’ ’im fer an hour !” Then he laughed,
and taking out his watch, swung the hour
hand round to the new time.
That night, just on two o’clock, the young
wife of Herbert Smithers stirred in her
sleep. Her husband slept calmly on; but
her mother’s heart had heard her baby cry.
Half-asleep she leaned across to the dainty
cot beside her bed', to soothe her darling
and tuck the clothes about him. Then the
chime of the dining-room clock woke her
fvillv. Instinctively she counted the deep
bell-like strokes —one, two, three, And bend-
ing across her babe she found him peace-
fully. deeply asleep, with all the clothes
smooth and even. She paused an instant
in wonder. In her sleep she had distinctly
heard her baby cry—a lusty cry, a wide-
awake cry. But there was a curious buzz-
ing in her ears, and happily she laid her
head on the pillow again, with the thought
that she must have dreamed that her child
was awake.
* * * *
For all these persons, as for all Australia,
that hour had gone. Gone where? You
can’t snip an hour out of Time and expect
to find no hole left. True, the edges had
been evenly joined; everybody had put clocks
and watches on; but Time himself cannot
be deceived by such a childish .expedient
as that. Australia didn’t want that hour;
had deliberately refused to have that hour;
but even Australia couldn’t monkey with
such a slow and stately thing as Time..
“Very well,” said Time, hurt by this ill-
treatment of himself. “You think you can
get ahead of me by whizzing the hour hand
round ; but I won’t forget. Some day you’ll
want that hour back. Rll keep it somewhere
hidden from you ; I’ll wrap it up carefully
with moth-balls, and when you’re ready to
have it again I’ll hand it back just as it
was when you threw it out. And. remember,
it won’t be the hour you expect; but the
very hour you’ve refused to have. You pre-
tend that you haven’t missed that hour; but
you will. You think it comfortably mislaid
or conveniently destroyed; but you can’t
obliterate Time —not even so small a frac-
tion of it as GO seconds. That hour is safely
filed away; some day I’ll turn it up. It’s
not lost, merely postponed.”
John Nisbet was so grateful to the Day-
light Saving Bill for having let him off th<
wifely lecture on New Year morning that h(
swore off. His persistent sobriety amazec
his wife. After a couple of months of it it
began to annoy her. In the old year John’s
occasional jags had afforded her the oppor
tunity to go on a moral burst herself. She
got as drunk on moral indignation as John
had ever been on whisky. Every happily-
married woman needs such occasional emo-
tional outlets; arid, lacking the excuse for
wifely reproaches, married life becomes hor-
ribly decorous and horribly dull.
On the evening of March 24, John spent
a happy evening with his wife, discussing the
war. But at 3 a.m. he suddenly awoke.
There was a curious creaking noise in his
ears, as if somebody was winding a gigantic
clock backwards. He instantly remembered
that this was the extra hour provided in
order to switch back to solar time. Sleepily
he put his watch back to 2 a.m., comforting
himself with the reflection that he would have
an extra hour in bed. But the noise he
made —or was it the noise of a million
watches being similarly ill-treated? —woke his
wife.
“You’re drunk, John!” she indignantly
snorted. “Disgracefully drunk, again !”
“Nonshense, dearie,” John muttered
thickly. He was surprised to find that he
(Continued on next page,)


WEAR BACKS.
Backache is really kidney ache; the
ache comes from the kidneys, which
lie just beneath the small of the back.
When the back is weak and lame
when it “cricks” if you turn sharply,
or stoop—when it burns with a burn-
ing ache, and keeps you awake half
the night—when you cannot bend
without a stab-like pain taking von —
when it makes hard work of the least
task—when it sets the whole body,
every limb and muscle, aching —give
vour kidneys help at once in Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s Pills
are a special kidney and bladder
medicine; they give strength and
tone to the kidneys themselves, and
so cure the cause of backache.
Though backache is one of the
most common signs of kidney com-
plaint, there are other equally certain
symptoms, such as gravel, rheumatic
pains, watery swellings in the ankles
and beneath the eves, urinary
troubles, dizzy spells, pains in the
limbs, spots before the eyes, sallow
complexion, etc.
Doan’s Pills flush out the liquid
poison that causes these symptoms,
and so protect you from the fatal
Bright’s disease and dropsy.
"EveryHavre
TeUsMtor?
y
S»«r
r
rr
r
&
So^Tv
'S
v
a
•7 s * 5
MykcK ismyweaKesf spot*
Sydney Man’s Lasting
Cure.
BACKACHE, URINARY DISORDER AND
DROPSICAL SWELLINGS.
Mr. James C. Struck, Glen Ayr, 17 Clarence
Street, Sydney, says: “Seven years ago I was very
ill with a bad attack of disordered kidneys, caused,
I think, through me doing a lot of heavy work,
which in some way must have strained these deli-
cate organs. I suffered excruciating agony from
backache, and was at times so bad that I could
hardly move. Everything I had to do was a
trouble, and I was miserable and depressed. To
make matters worse, my rest at night was much
disturbed, and I used to get up in the morning
feeling worn out. The kidney secretions were thick
and cloudy, and contained a red sediment, and my
ankles swelled, to twice their usual size, being very
sore if I even touched them. I went on suffering in
this way for a long time, nothing I took doing me
any good, but at last I got the right remedy, and
that was Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. After
taking two bottles of these pills I felt much relieved,
and by the time I had finished eight bottles I was
completely cured and felt a different man. I am
never troubled with backache now, and my secre-
tions are in a healthy state. I attribute this to the
good Doan's Backache Kidney Pills did me nearly
seven years ago.”
Four years later Mr. Struck says: “The cure
referred to above has proved permanent. I need
say no more; the facts speak for themselves.”
Be Sure You Get “DOAN’S"
LIKE MR. STRUCK HAD.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per
bottle, or post free by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
gfds
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
g
had some difficulty iu expressing himself.
Jushd sheein’ goo’ ole New Year in !”
‘‘New Year ! Why. it’s the end of March !”
his wife exclaimed.
Somehow she felt a thrill of satisfaction.
Now r she knew what she had been missing
these last few mouths, the sensation of moral
superiority that only comes to a wife when
her husband is drunk.
John felt, strangely confused. He at-
tempted to explain that he wasn’t drunk,
couldn’t possibly be drunk. Yet he knew
that he was drunk. Delightfully,
drunk.' Too drunk to care what his wife
said. So for an hour—that heaven-sent
"Xtra hour—-he lay there and was pleasantly
lulled by his wife’s moral monologue.
Next morning his wife was her charming
s, 'Jf again ; she had had her emotional spree.
And John, seeing that whether he drank or
not he was liable *to become intoxicated,
decided that he would not get drunk without
a cause. lie made up his mind to follow
<Jeorge the Fifth some distance behind; and
his wife, at seemly intervals, wept over his
lapses, and was emotionally comforted.
* * * *
Reggie Bithell and Lena Waistcoate had
quarrelled. Their brief engagement had been
broken ; they swore never to speak to each
other again. When Reggie woke the next
morning lie recognised that Lena’s action in
kissing him before he had kissed her, was
hardly modest. Of course, he loved her, and all
that, and apparently he was engaged to her,
though, curiously enough, he could not re-
member having actually proposed. That
cloud on his happiness slowly spread, over-
shadowing all." And when he hinted to Lena
that lie had forgotten the details of their
actual engagement she had had to confess,
too, that the memory of that precious hour
bad also been obliterated from her memory.
When he had almost angrily accused her of
having given the first kiss, Lena hotly con-
tradicted him, though at the back of her
brain slie could not recall anything that had
happened before that fatal embrace. So they
parted in anger.
But one night in March it fell to his lot
again to see her home from a dance. When
they found themselves thus thrust upon each
other’s company by a hostess who was
ignorant of their changed relations, each was
too proud to refuse, and in angry silence
they started to walk to her home. 'But just
as they reached the fatal spot of the botched
proposal, Lena again stumbled, and Reggie,
catching her once again in his arms, sud-
denly felt all his unjust suspicions disappear.
Eagerly he poured out his love for her, and,
after a solemn interval, Lena happily mur-
mured: “Reggie, darling, this is so'sudden!”
It wasn’t, as a matter of fact; it was
three months later. But neither knew that.
To them it was a reconciliation, a wonder-
ful hour of reconciliation. And though,
when three o’clock struck, Reggie remem-
bered that he would have to put his watch
back, it was Lena who lovingly did it for
him.
. “9 Reggie,”• She whispered, “wouldn’t it be
lovely it we could only have this heavenly
hour again?”
But they couldn't. There had been quite
enough monkeying with Time. He had to
get on.
* * * -*
About the same time a prisoner in a cell,
convicted of a number of burglaries, woke in
the darkness. He guessed it must be some-
where about three o’clock, and then remem-
bered that the Judge,, or God, or somebody,
had meanly added an hour to his already
long sentence. Yes, owing to that blanky
Daylight Saving arrangement, he was going
to get an extra hour —in quod. If he could
only have had that extra hour outside!
He did. The warder, looking into the cell,
discovered that his prisoner was missing.
The door was locked : there was no sign of
his escape except the obvious one that the
man wasn’t there. He roused the gaol
authorities, and a thorough search was made
of the premises, without the slightest clue
being discovered. After an hour’s investiga-
tion they gave it up; and the warder, re-
turning to the cell to have a final look round,
discovered his prisoner there, iu bed. And
there was a happy, reminiscent smile on his
face.
At the same hour ex-Constable John
Chuck, now I*te. Chuck, was mounting guard
in camp. The officer for the day, making
his night inspection, found one sentry miss-
ing. It was Pte. Chuck. Search failed to
disclose his whereabouts, which wasn’t at all
remarkable, since just as he put Ids wrist-
watch back the extra hour, he found himself,
in a blue uniform, chasing a suspicious-look-
ing person down a suburban street. It was
a hot chase, lasting nearly an hour, but the
man got away. However, Constable Chuck
had got near enough to the man to identify
him; and he comforted himself with the
thought that some day the Law would catch
the man for one of his many burglaries.
Then he resumed the pacing of his beat, but
had some difficulty in refraining from pre-
senting arms to a palpable drunk. As the
clock struck three, for the second time that
night, he found himself back on sentry-go in
camp, this time in khaki. Next morning he
got the proud distinction of being able to
write C.B. after his name.
* * » «
As the dining-room clock struck three, for
the first time that night the wife of Herbert
Smithers woke. She thought she had heard
her baby cry. She leant over to the cot, and,
only half-awake, soothed the restless child.
But the baby wouldn’t be pacified until she
had taken him into her arms, and, crooning
old nursery rhymes, so as not to wake her
husband, lulled the little thing to sleep.
Lying there, happy with the feel of her baby
against her breast, she fell at last to sleep.
In the morning she turned instinctively to
her baby’s cot. But, of course, there was
no cot there. It had been taken away when
her baby had died. Her husband, seeing the
instinctive movement of the mother bereaved,
gently put his arms about her. And she
woke —to the bleak realisation of her irre-
parable loss.
“Dear,” she whispered through her slow
tears, “I had a beautiful dream last night.
I dreamed that baby was sleeping in his little
cot. And he was restless, and to soothe him
I had to take him into our bed. and I sang
him the old nursery rhymes he loved, and at
last I fell asleep with him in my arms.”
There was nothing her husband could say.
“But it was so real, dear,” she sobbed.
“Do you think the little chap could have
come back to me—-just for an hour—because
he knows how dreadfully I miss him?”
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
As It Was.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ST. JOHN of the pearling fleet was At
Home. All the Island was aboard his
schooner. The men (who one and all
hated St. John) came because it was “busi-
ness,” and the women because there was no-
where else to go.
All went merry as a marriage bell. The
scarlet-striped awnings and long white line
of decks were cool and inviting. The Filipino
Jboys made quaint music on their mandolins;
and no one had ever questioned St. John’s
qualification in giving the finest of foods
and drinks.
Tony Savoran lent over the rail beside the
girl he liked best, and helped her count the
forty-seven sapphires in the Strait.
Tony liked her best because she was dif-
ferent, and had brown little flecks in the
innocence of her eyes. And she, Denise
Wayne, loved Tony for being himself and a
dear, and because he was big and straight
and strong.
“Say those verses about Torres,” she
demanded. And Tony, obedient, began:
Valdez del Torres sailed the main,
He was a great grandee of Spain,
and told how disaster and hunger and
dread ghosts harassed him, till the Southern
Cross came a-comforting.
“Three years this day we’ve sailed the main,
We pray you take us back to Spain,”
the crew besought. Then the mutiny and
the scurvy-sickness and lastly:
When they laid them down to die
The starried cross rose in the sky.
Tony waxed rhetorical. He almost swore
when Ah Mat, Malay, in a fine new batik
turban, curved towards them with a salver
of caged sunshine in slender-stemmed glass.
A dinghy put off from the little stone
jetty. A nice dinghy it was, white with a
red rim. A Iviwai boy was pulling. A
Japanese sat, very straight, astern. As he
passed the schooner he bowed, the stiff-
necked bow of the High Nobility.
“He’s the best-looking Jap I’ve seen,” said
Denise, ineonsequentl.v.
“Saruma, the diver,” averred Tony. And
just then St. John carried Denise off to show
her some pearls, and didn’t include Tony.
* * * *
Night, and a week later. A drab miasma
swathed the island and lay like a tide-wave
from Horn to Prince o’ Wales.
Tony and this Girl he Liked Best wefe
gar-fishing off the reef. Two hours had
they fished and caught next to nothing. Then
a shark’s fin rising so close that Denise
could have touched it told them why. No
one cares to be off the reef when the great
sharks are out. So Tony and the Girl
stowed their fishing-gear and made for the
Sidela boat-house that stands straight and
strong (like Tony himself, thought Denise)
on the sand-beach.
Monsoon season was three moons past,
yet a sudden squall screamed over the edge
of Green Fort, seized the dinghy, and flung
it like a walnut shell half across the strait,
leaving it wallowing beside a lugger that
pitched like a thing possessed. When it
steadied down Denise and Tony went
aboard, to escape the rain that struck into
(?ie sea like spears. Saruma the diver in-
vited them.
His was a well-composed cabin. A red
silk rug lay neatly across the bunk, and a
beautifully-done crayon showed the Mikado
taking a salute.
“You will drink tea?” Saruma asked.
Denise just loved the little handleless cups
of porcelain, with storks in dead black ; the
quaint squat teapot; the flat wee jug. And
the purple iris above the swinging lamp was
good to look upon.
Tony laughed that she was so young and
so happy, and drank two cups.
He smiled over the bushikan (orange peel,
sugared) and kept on smiling in a silly sort
of way (which wasn’t a bit like TonV). Then,
suddenly, his head fell forward. Denise was
smiling, too, in the same witless way, from
afar. And an anchor-chain creaked on its
windlass.
Then Tony waked. lie stood up—with
unseen hands dragging him down—and
faced the diver.
“You!” —he gasped. “You” !
The diver bowed.
“Once,” he said, “five year ago, you swore
me, and you kicked. I called to her. I
take”
“Tony!” Denise cried in little convulsive
gasps. “Tony—save me !”
But the world had gone velvet-black, and
Tony was falling through.
Their dinghy was found floating bottom
up; and the good Padre of the Roman
Catholic Church jumped at conclusions and
read prayers for our dear brother and sister
now departed. Also for Saruma, a Japan-
ese, of the Lone Star lugger,- and his
crew, lost in the same squall.
Tony’s watch came back in the belly of
a shark.
Three moons later word came that a white
girl had been seen aboard a pearling lugger
in the Philippines. Investigation showed
that this white woman was very, very mad.
All the time she was singing something
about:
“Three years this day we’ve sailed the main,
We pray you take us back to Spain.”
Which proved she was. Spanish, not Aus-
tralian. One night she fell overboard and
was drowned.
•Which is a rotten yarn, but true.
S. S. SEVERN.


■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH,
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feathersto i Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Streetjjeibourne^^^^
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
em,
r
FIRE
EXTINGUISHER
Saves 5 per cent • on
Automobile
Fire Insurance.
Price 55/ - each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
sfdg
I.
a as
"MILLER”
Oil Heaters
Manufactured by the famous house
of "Miller” are known and appreci-
ated the world over for their Smoke-
less and Economical Qualities. They
are built upon solid lines and
noted for their sturdiness.
We also manufacture the famous
"Miller” Lighting Fixtures and Lamps
of Electric, Gas and Oil Variety.
Look over the "Miller” line it will pay
% you. Obtainable at all the best dealers.
Made by EDWARD MILLER 6C COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
Bcecham'sPills
may be relied upon, at all times, to exercise a tonic,
cleansing, healing influence upon the digestive organs.
A sensible use of this well-known specific is generally
all that is needed to relieve and remove those disorders
of the stomach liver and bowels, which are always
associated with dyspepsia in any form. Beechams Pills
are unfailing as a corrective and invaluable as a safe
stimulant of that important organ, the liver, upon the
efficient action of which so much depends. As a cure
for constipation and for removing its attendant discom-
forts and dangers there is no more reliable remedy. In
fact, as an aid to health generally, the judicious use of
Beechams Pills is strongly recommended. They are
A Boon to All
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10id (36 pills), 1/14 (56 pills) & 2/9 (IGB pills).
<4
A W % ft.
PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS an* U //
m> mI"JL afcrasr sksp' a
Marine, Stationary &. Portable Engines.
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON
'
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
DO □□□□□□□□
Msnnsns
VIOLET
TtfLEVJM
\3SRMfIRD risnUSW
Chcmicai Co.
fttwflßK.nj.y.s fl ,
Insist on the Genuine Mennen’s
Borated Talcum Powder. At
all Leading Chemists and Stores.
■
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
17 Victoria Street
W elliuuton, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney* N. S. W
Wise Women Buy
M^nn^rrs
Perfumed Talcum Powders
By the Half Dozen
The Perfect Complexion depends on the quality of the Toilet
Powder used. Inferior and impure powders are positively harmful.
Mennen’s Perfumed Talcum Powders are recognized everywhere as
the purest. Nothing so quickly destroys a woman s fresh an
delicate complexion as the constant daily use of toilet powders
containing injurious chemicals.
Mennen’s Scented Talcum Powders
Pure —refined —free, from foreign matter —deliciously perfumed are considered by an
increasing number of the fair sex as the safest and daintiest toilet powders. _Jbey
hp had m a variety of Tints and Perfumes.
Sen Yang- With a Seductive yet illusive odour of the Orient.
Fle»h Tint—Exquisitely perfumed with the odour of Roses, and
delicately tinted pink. , . , ...... ~
Violet With the damty scent of the delicate Violet ae
Cream Tint - A "Rachel" powder, cream-coloured and
scented with orange blossoms.
dsf


MANGROVITE
LEATHER K
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAN GKO VlfE” Kawhitle, which
differs from all other so-called Ilawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ask for “DOUBLE EXTRA” Steel
The Finest Grade of Steel for all ordinary purposes
that can be manufactured. Strongly
recommended for work where
High Speed Steel is
not employed.
gfds
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgooriie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
SUPPLIED
_ IN BARS SPECIALLY
ANNEALED for EASY MACHINING.
The Latest Addition to
“Made in Australia”
Goods is
Hardies “Fibrolitc”
FLAT SHEETS S CORRUGATED ROOFING.
“Fibrolite” is introduced in lieu of Ilardie’s
British-made Fibro-Cement. Its process of
manufacture is based on the valuable experi-
ence gained during 14 years of selling Fibro-
Cement Sheets.
Send for samples and full particulars of
“Fibrolite” (Corrugated and Flat). It proves
that Australia can compete with the beet
imported.
James Hardie & Co.,
Phone 0239. Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
WOLFE*
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNAPP
Tangye Portable Lampless Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Department
MILLER'S POINT, SYDNEY.
Handling? the following? High-grade and Well-known Agencies:—
TANGYE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers, Pumps of all descriptions.
TANGYE Suction Gas Plants, Winches, Lifting Jacks, Punching Bears, Chain Hoists, Etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam and Traction Engines. NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements.
JOHN BUNCLE & SONS Chaffcutters. E.R.B. Separator Engines. E.R.B. Farm Pump Outfits.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines and Cream Separators, GANE Milking Machines.
interesting descriptive Catalogues of any of above lines Posted Gratis to any add re:
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine,
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
for efficiency in operation
t"
To ensure smooth-running, the lowest-possible cost for upkeep, and best
results all-round—invest in the Wolseley machine—the finest the world
can produce.
The Wolseley is the world’s standard—and unbeaten in every respect.
Obtain full particulars and judge for yourself.
Address your enquiries to
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD., Australasian Agents ALL. BRANCHES.
■Mjea£«
.scdS . ■
if -
IsKSi
W:
We are now manufacturing and have in stock for
immediate delivery complete Laundry Equipment
of the latest English and American design
Power Washing Machines, Hydro Extractors, Steam
Mangles, Power Ironing Machines, Hand Ironers, etc.
And ALL SUPPLIES for the Laundry Trade.
Call and inspect or write for full descriptive catalog.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
JOHNSON & PHILLIPS LTD., London,
Contractors 'to BRITISH ADMIRALTY, WAR OFFICE, POST OFFICE, PRINCIPAL MUNICIPALITIES, etc.
CABLES
of every description.
COMPLETE PLANTS for CABLE MAKING.
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS for CABLE STEAMERS.
SWITCHGEAR, TRANSFORMERS, ARC LAMPS, INSTRUMENTS, etc.
SEND ENQUIRIES TO
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., EQUITABLE BUILDING, SYDNEY.
m
Three-core, Paper Insulated,
Lead Covered and Steel Tape
Armored Cable with three
pilot wires laid up.
