

The Whisky ot bxquisiW I ASM
LISTEN!
Our Brave Australian Boys are Galling for YOUR ■ HitiMp
The traditions of your race demand a willing and noble response.
Will vou fail them in this hour of need or will you enrol your name as a
DEFENDER OF YOUR COUNTRY?—a PRICELESS
HEIRLOOM when the history of this war is written.
ENLIST!
Gr, WATKINS (Sb CO., Iron and Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street,
Sydney.
sdfs
dfs
df
sd
fsd
fs
On all Classes of Security
biiXs discounted
Easy lermsoLiov/estInterest , m , m „
NSVMQNTDE PIETE-D&IC^Ir 9
HEAD OFFICE. 74 C ASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
Next to “Daily Telegraph’
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
plenty
Used
m
Makes forty look
like
twenty
VALUABLE FOR TAN
SUNBURN
AND
Made in Australia by y
FHEBIHICKSTIARHSeC?
SYDNEY.
iiTTmi
Ul
RAWSON MOODY ALL-STEEL FENCE
* built with powerful steel posts and wire, and
possessing wonderful advantages wooden
post fences, as it saves 80 per cent, iff erection
labor and weighs only 25 per cent, of the wood,
yet is stronger, and lasts a lifetime, and costs
only 15/- to £1 per chain complete.
For full particulars write to The Bawson Moody Mfg. Co., 343 Kent St.,
Svdnev. or send for an Illustrated Catalogue B.
df
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
unketj
—win-JL JILrIH
tablets
F or indigestion
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cabjes
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from _
THE SiLVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
sd
fsd
the roofing that stands every test.
Big buildings in the largest cities, fine suburban bungalows, modest country homes are
roofed with Malthoid —with the greatest possible success.
“NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS”
j n that it stands every climatic condition, positive proof against water; never rots,
cracks or leaks; fume-proof, spark-proof, vermin-proof. Recommended by prominent
architects and builders.
Obtain samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (D. 8. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chatlis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L
locomotive, general. 6c agricultural, engineers.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL. DESCRIPTIONS.
D ■ * \a/ IRON 6c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
ROAD METAL 8c FARM WAGGONS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
SHREDDER DISCS.
ENLIST!
fs
df
and thus assure a
contented old age.
Young CORNSTALKS, GUMSUCKERS, CROWS, SAND-
PIPERS, BANANALANOERS and TASMANIAN DEVILS
W« are “KEEPING ON—KEEPING ON*' witH married men and girls to conserve the
billets of the lads that left us to do tbeir bit for the Empire.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., Machinery Merchants. Head Office: “THE QUAY," SYDNEY.
sdf
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.38.—N0. 1950.]
[Thursday, June 28, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


LEE’S
PRICELESS RECIPES.
3000 SECRETS.
A valuable Collection of Tried Formulas and Simple Methods for Farmers, Housekeepers,
Mechanics, Manufacturers, Druggists, Chemists, Perfumers, Barbers, Chiropodists, Renovators, Dyers,
Confectioners, Bakers, Woodworkers, Decorators, Painters, Paper-hangers, Metal-workers, Hunters,
Trappers, Tanners, Taxidermists, Stockmen, etc., and all people in every department of human
endeavor. Alphabetically Indexed. Compiled by Dr. N. T. Oliver,
1/8 Post Free 1/8
COLE'S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George St., Sydney; and at Bourke St., Melbourne.
HUDSON'S EUHENTHOL JUJUBES
MOST POMTHrUV.
SAFI AMD PViASMfT OW>QW
. amo Mcnseroc ww«h Cb
rtf®
C.HUDSON .
**£££•
Suited for Old and Young, for
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
The large sale for EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
has led to a number of imitations being manu-
factured under the name of menthol and Other
jujubes. It is important, therefore, when buying
to be sure and get HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES. You may be asked to, buy other
Jujubes, and be told they are "just as good"
as Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves
that: these imitations and substitutes have no
reputation of their own, and can onlv be sold
on the good repute and high character of Hud-
son’s Eumenthol Jujubes. Sold by all Chemists.
Price Is. 6d. per tin. [5
The Red Page
Dixon Scott
Another of the valuable lives wiped out
by this impartial war is that of Dixon Scott,
the most brilliant literary critic —or para-
Bite-yin England, killed by dysentery at
Gallipoli. Scott was a provincial by choice:
all his best work was done for provincial
journals. He feared the lure of London,
jealously nursing his provincial view-point.
It was a brilliant essay upon Shaw, authen-
tically Shavian in its quality, that first at-
tracted this page to this critical genius. He
did not take his job too solemnly: he wrote
brilliant journalism for daily newspapers,
deliberately dipping lfis nib into paradoxes,
and doubtless causing G. K. Chesterton an
occasional perturbation. As Max Beerbohm,
in his introduction to Men of Letters, by
Dixon Scott (Hodder and Stoughton, per
Sydney Book Club), says: “Certainly, no
other English critic has had such an ear-
ns Dixon Scott had for the vibrations of
‘style’ in literature, or has been able to ana-
lyse so minutely, with such unerring science,
the technical peculiarities of this or that
man’s writing.” His subject titles are good
journalism: “The Innocence of Bernard
Shaw; The Meekness of Ml-. Rudyard
Kipling: The Artlessncss of Mr. H. G.
Wells; The Guilt of Mr. Chesterton; Beau
Beerbohm.” Dixon Scott probably afforded
Shaw .the unique experience of his literary
life, when he found himself the object of
criticism and satire absolutely Shavian in
quality and sting. Scott tells us, in demo-
. fishing the legend of Shaw as a fanatic, that
the world is being merely hoaxed by his
beard: it conceals a soft and charming chin.
Shaw’s whole life was wildly romantic. “The
lad’s fife was a voluptuous revel. He dreamed
and dawdled at school and at home, he
simply soaked himself lusciously in the
licensed orgies aud ecstasies of music.” What
else could this romantic youth do but: write
Plays for Puritans? Dixon Scott’s dis-
covery of the extraordinary perfection and
technical importance of Shaw’s prose—a
supreme .innovation that must henceforth
occupy an essential part of the history of
the development of English prose—already
quoted on this page—bears repetition:
“Lightened of all adjectives, nimble with
nouns, turning categories into keyboards, he
is wont to ripple us a run and, avoiding
vowels in order to get the snap of conso-
nants, it rattles past at a rate that makes
the best of Swift seem slow, and pelts the
brain with stinging drops like driving hail.
It is deliberately cold and colorless, but it
produces a kind of glow, an unusual warmth
that almost melts the icy argument, almost
turns it into something rich and wild. For
rapidity, poignancy, unanimity, promptness,
an exquisite timing and adjustment of its
parts, there is no prose to be compared with
it in English.”
The trouble with Shaw is that he senti-
mentally sees himself a satirist and harsh
realist; he thinks himself Cervantes when
he is really Don Quixote. This is due to
his suburban upbringing. His mind set early:
his stock of ideas was formed in the time of
the. Ibsen Society, the Fabian Society,
rational dress and the New Woman—whom
he oddly accepted as woman. “He got his
ideas of human society from the members of
his societies.. . .he honestly believed that a
brisk debate with Mr. Belfort Bax brought
him very near to the simple heart of human
nature.” He saw life steadily, but merely as
a Fabian meeting multiplied. “ .
J*
Here is Rudyard Kipling’s prose: “The
rhythms run with a snap from stop to stop;
every sentence is as straight as a string;
each has its self-contained tune. Prise one
of them out of its place and you feel it would
fall with a clink, leaving a slot that would
never close up as the holes do in woollier
work. Replace it. and it locks back like
type in a forme, fitting into the paragraph
as the paragraph fits into the tale. There
are.no glides or grace-notes or blown spray
oT sound.”
And the prose of Henry James: “It is the
most ‘universal’—the most republican—prose
in our literature—composed of more ele-
ments than any other, deriving from sources
more varied, maintaining its health and bal-
ance by an intricate system of counterpoise
and cross-fertilisation.” Henry James uses
a sort of celestial slang. “His is prose of a
superb strength and suppleness, a prose pro-
bably unsurpassed since Shakespeare’s—and
able, at its highest moments of passion,
when it is aflame with a beauty greater than
even that borne by most self-avowed poetry,
to maintain the serene carriage of the estate
to which it belongs, and deprecate any sug-
gestion of a ceremony.”
So Dixon Scott adventures among contem-
poraries, goes hunting through their books
to find and fix their souls. “It is the great-
est of games,” he says.
Here is his method:—
Here in your hand you hold a book—a little cabinet
of mimic scenes; it is a magic box into which, by
the aid of the talisman of letters, you can positively
creep and then go roaming through as in a world.
Well, all the sights that now spread round you, all
the landscapes, gardens, groves, and all the flitting
figures who pass to and fro and talk there, are simply
parts of a private kingdom, a sort of Xanadu retreat,
built by the artist for his prefect habitation —a secret
place where he can fling off all disguise and live
completely, with a sincerity impossible outside.
There alone his soul, escaped, can frame a world
to fit its needs; there only does he dare to be him-
self. And there only, accordingly, can you hope to
hunt him down, and catch him with his character
unmasked. From the clues of dropped metaphors—
by the trails of well-used rhythms—from scraps of
conversation heard by eavesdropping among liis char-
acters —in and out, ruthlessly, you track him through
the maze, until the last barrier breaks, and you are
on him.
A queer moment, thatl One never quite gets'hard-
ened—so staggering is it to discover how little he
resembles the tax-paying and be-photographed simu-
lacra who pass for him so plausibly outside. It
is on these differences that you fasten, marking,
measuring, comparing: your sketch-book has another
scalp. After that he can rejoin his imposing outside
proxies when he will —they will hover impose on you
again.
Brutal? Not a bit of it. It is at least quite cer-
tain that the true writer, in his ambuscade, simply
pines to be 'pursued and passionately hopes that you
may win. To be vanquished is his victory—to escape
is his defeat; for cryptic, till you capture him, must
still in part remain his work; enigmatic, all these
groves without a guide.
He makes the valuable discovery that Ches-
terton’s mission 'in life is as a master of a form
of art that he has never tried. This form of
art “calls for pageantry, poetry and puns
with an equal distinctness: it could both
tower up into great symbols and sprawl into
boisterous jokes; it ought to he as merry as
a Christmas party, and it is a true child
of the grim old moralities... .Come down, O
Chesterton, from yonder madcap height, and
write us—the perfect pantomime.”
Perhaps the secret of Dixon Scott’s ability
to pack himself so neatly inside the several
souls of his victims lies in his absolute iden-
tification of style with theirs. The reader
will note that each description of style
quoted above might have been written by
the author himself.
A Duty on Imported Words
“Vance Palmer”: Red Page (17/5/T7)
throws a small brick at the Authors ant
Writers’ Guild under the illusion that it is
asleep. Such is not the case. The said guile
has used every channel known to it to
impress the politicians with the fact that
(apart from any decent treatment due to the
craft of letters) a publishing industry is
necessary to Australia. It has brought all
its guns to bear on preceding Ministers foi
Customs. _ It has enlisted the co-operation o;
the printing trades. And if it hasn’t been
more effective that is because it is neces-
sarily a loose organisation, dependent a good
deal upon the individual initiative of its mem-
bers, who are rarely able to meet one
another.-
The position it has been calling attention
to is this. _ Australia cannot have a Copy-
right Act similar to the American one, since
we are included in the agreements Great
Britain entered into at the Berne Conven-
tion. We cannot demand that books shall
be printed in Australia in order to have
copyright here. The publishing industries Of
most small countries have the protection of
language as well as copyright. We have
neither, as far as Great Britain and the
U.S.A. are concerned, and the tariff is the
only protective instrument that remains to us
if we want to build up a publishing indus-
try here. Failing that, books written in
Australia will continue to be hawked to
London, and pass for approval before the
cold eye of a publisher’s reader who resides
at Brixton or Wimbledon, and is only in-
terested in Australia in so far as it lives
up to the serials in Chums. Art suffers:
the honest writer suffers. The only ones to
benefit are a few _ amateurish persons who
don’t mind butchering their country to make
a Brixton holiday.
Politicians, however, are not much con-
cerned with art or literature. This addi-
tional consideration has been pointed out to
them. A political community like ours lives
by public discussion of its affairs. Where
are the books and pamphlets that are to give
coherence to such discussion? Conspicu-
ously absent, of course, in a country that lets
all its publishing be done by outsiders. Our
bookstalls are cluttered with books on purely
English questions, but if I want to write a
serious work on (say) Australian Trades
Unionism or the Administration of Papua I
have to persude the publisher’s reader living
at Wimbledon, S W., that the subject is
important. Important not to us, mind you,
but to Mudie’s subscribers.
There are, of course, a hundred economic
reasons why our publishing should be done
here. The printing trades have put forward
these reasons in a pamphlet, but the spirit-
ual, ones are, on the whole, more important.
It is necessary for any civilised community
to have a class of independent writers. They
are the watchdogs of the nation, and even
the dog must have its bone. A very small
publishing industry would be sufficient to
supply the necessary bone, but in these days
such an industry requires complicated masses
of expensive machinery, and printing can be
done more cheaply in London and Tokio
than in Sydney. Well, why not enlist the
aid of the tariff for protection? The pic-
torial artists, with much less excuse, have
been able to use it, and Corot most pay a
guinea to enter this Commonwealth while
the undesirable Barclay and Corelli come in
Two Campaigns
Frederick Palmer, accredited American
correspondent with the British, is merely the
skilled war-correspondent; he has not the
brilliance of Phillip Gibbs, but he knows his
job. The value of With the Neiv Army on
the'Somme (Murray, per Dymock’s Library)
is due to Palmer’s nationality: he is the
unbiased foreign observer. He rightly
stresses the fact, the importance of which
we are apt to overlook, that the big push on
the Somme was the work of a practically
new and untried war-machine. Most of the
original Expeditionary Force had been wiped
out by January 1, 1915. The New Army
that had to carry on against the most power-
ful fighting machine in the world was actu-
ally an infant in arms: it had to crawl be-
fore it could charge. History will probably
regard the British part of the Somme Shove
as the most marvellous experiment in war-
fare. Yet as Palmer remarks, “As it had
never occurred to them that they could be
beaten, so they were not.” And this new
British pup had been well “blooded” by
means of what we now learn for the first
time was a Canadian invention, the trench
raid, adapted from the methods of warfare
employed by the Red Indians. The trench
raid was merely a practice stunt.
“Some tough !” remarked a Canadian when
he saw the Australians for the first time
marching along a French road. And for us
the chief interest in this volume is this for-
eign correspondent’s glowing appreciation of
Billjim: “I have never been in Australia or
New Zealand, but this I know, that when
the war is over lam going. I want to see
the land that breeds such men. They are
free men if ever there were such, whether
they come from town or from bush
Whenever I saw an Australian I thought:
‘Here is the very proud, individual man,’ but
also an Australian, particularly an Austra-
lian.... To put it in strong language, there
is a touch of.the ‘I don’t care a rap for any-
body who does not care a rap for me’ in their
extreme moments of independence. It is
refreshing that a whole population may have
an island continent to themselves and carry
on in this fashion... .Orientals might crave
the broad spaces of a new land, in which
event if they ever took Australia and Maori-
land, they would not be bothered by many sur-
vivors of the white population, because"most
of the Anzacs woud be dead Lucky Bird-
wood to have the Australians and lucky
Australians to have him for a commander!
What a test he put them to and they
put him to! He had to prove himself to
them before he could develop the Anzacs in
a war union worthy of their fighting quality.
....Quiet men the New Zealanders, bearing
themselves with the pride of Guardsmen
whose privates all belonged to superior old
families, and New Zealanders every minute
of every hour of the day, though you might
think that civil war was imminent if you
started them on a discussion about home
politics.” There’s a lot more “kidding,” as
Billjim calls it, but this page must spare his
feelings.
jt
The value of Major F. E. Whitten’s The
Marne Campaign (Constable, 10s. 6d. in
England) lies in its impartiality. We have
had explanations of the Battle of the Marne
by other experts; but these writers prove too
much: they present clear-cut theories of the
battle, and naturally seem to slight details
that do not fit neatly info their theories.
Major Whitton presents the battle as a
muddle, as all such modern battles of such
magnitude must be; and he evidences -vital
mistakes on both sides. The advance of the
Huns almost to the gates of Paris he com-
pares to the lightning thrusts of Napoleon’s
day, showing that modern masters of the art
oi war can handle, immense masses of men
with the freedom that was possible with the
tiny armies of those days. “The Battle of
the Marne furnishes a signal example of the-
.strategical counter-attack on a great scale
.... Joffre’s master-stroke was essentially
strategical rather than tactical.”
The author disposes, probably finally, of
the belief that the German objective was
Paris; Paris was to have been the ripe plum
waiting to be plucked once the French Army
was smashed. And Major Whitton directly
contradicts the assertion made by previous
commentators that the master-stroke of vic-
tory was the wedge driven into the Teutonic
line by General Focli: he proves that the
brilliant Foch stubbornly and consummately
withstood the tremendous blows of the des-
perate Huns, but did not execute any move-
ment in the least resembling ,>sueh a thrust.
Another misconception that the author shat-
ters is that the gallant resistance of Liege
‘retarded in any appreciable degree the ad-
vance of the bulk of the German horde. And
he admits “that England’s interest in the
neutrality of Belgium was military rather
than diplomatic, and a matter less of senti-
ment than of self-interest. The occupation
of the Belgian seaboard by an immensely
strong military power—-a power whose navy
was second only to that of England—would
obviously be a most serious menace to the
latter country.” Besides, from that base
Germany could have seized the northern
ports of France, which England, in return
for France’s naval control of the Mediter-
ranean, had guaranteed to protect.
Major Whitton quotes documents that
clearly prove that .Joffre’s retirement was
strategical, always with the definitely
announced intention of retaking the offen-
sive. It thus contrasts with the retirement
of the Huns to the Aisne, where, by digging
themselves in, the invaders deliberately re-
nounced the initiative. Joffre’s opportunity
was Von Kluck’s sudden flank march across
the face of the enemy in position. Such
chances do not often occur in war, and Jofifre
pounced. Major Whitton publishes the three
orders of the day issued by the French, Brit-
ish and German commanders —an interest-
ing comparison of the psychology of the
three nations. There is no doubt that Joffre
slightly miscalculated the distance that
Ivluck would have penetrated into his trap;
but there is no doubt about Kluck’s skill in
extricating himself.
Two interesting points touched upon by
the author deal respectively with the absence
of any general reserve under the immediate
control of the higher command on either
side; and the complete absence of shock
action on a large scale by the cavalry in
either army. It is doubtful whether a single
general reserve is any use in modern battles
fought on lines of great length ; but it is re-
markable that in country ideal for cavalry
work, and practically unwired, no use was
made of shock cavalry tactics. Major Whit-
ton seems to have forgotten the machine-
gun. _
Returning to Kluck, this commander is
rehabilitated by this’ English commentator.
There is no doubt that lie surprised Jofifre
by “his skilful and lightning-like withdrawal
and the conversion of the French Sixth
Army from an outflanking force to one
which was itself outflanked. It must be ad-
mitted that General von Ivluck showed con-
summate tactical ability in endeavoring to
retrieve the situation which had become full
of peril.” Major Whitton concludes that
Joffre’s victory was largely due to the errors
of his antagonist. But he had been waiting
and watching for just that weak joint in the
enemy’s armor; and the quickness and skill
with which he seized and utilised it stamp
him as a master of the art of war. Yet
but for the discovery of aviation it is prob-
able that Kluck would have made his danger-
ous move in safety.
The Battle of the Marne was decisive.
When the Allies fell back in their great
retreat it was after a fortnight of almost
unrelieved disaster, while when the Germans
withdrew to the Aisne it was after what
was really no more than a smart setback in
a course of hitherto uninterrupted victory.
Yet Joffre hit back, while the Hun surren-
dered the initiative, and sat down in his
entrenchments with the intention of staying
there. And he is there, or thereabouts, still.
The many large-scale maps are an indis-
pensable feature of the author’s analysis.
“Ato’s” opinion of the Australian Litera-
ture Society (Melb.) and its pup, the Mel-
bourne Literary Club: “I looked at the
syllabus for the half-year and found that
every speaker is at least an M.A.; and who
can mention an Australian writer with a
degree who has done anything worth read-
ing? The syllabus sounds highly instructive,
highly decorous and damned dull. The off-
shoot, the Melbourne Literary Club, is an
altogether different business. The Aust. Lit.
is mildewed, mouldy, out of date (imagine a
body of Australian people, educated and
sane, worshipping A. L. Gordon as the great-
est Australian poet!), a haven of literary
derelicts and non-creative panjandrums. The
Melb. Lit. Club is virile, joyous, inconse-
quent, without an M.A. to give it—haw! —
tone. Here bright young souls with literary
ambitions gather and • throw bouquets at
each other’s compositions—and, sometimes,
bricks. The secretary guarantees one row
per meeting. A row at the Aust. Lit. Society
is as unthinkable as a journalist in Heaven.”
The Story of the Geisha Girl , by T. Fuji-
moto, author of The Niyht Side of Japan
(Laurie; 7s. 6d. in London), is written in
Japanese English. The author in liis pre-
face is eager to disabuse the reader’s mind
of the belief that these girls are “equivalent
to those in a lower kind of the female pro-
fessions. .. .on the contrary, they are a kind
of artistes almost indispensable in the society
of Japan, if not for ever, at least in the
present age.” He admits that there may be
some exceptional groups among their circles
of low character and base conduct, but he
does not call them the true geisha girls. But,
once past his preface, he hardly troubles to
conceal the fact that though there are many
ceremonial duties for which geisha girls are
required, they have one job more Interest-
ing and more important in the national life.
Though he traces the history and develop-
ment of the geisha from earliest times, and
describes in detail their ceremonial duties,
accomplishments and recreations, he frankly
admits the fact of their official prostitution,
and treats fully of their rates of pay and
method of hiring. One chapter is entitled:
“Tall Talks of an Old Geisha Girl,” and is
subdivided as follows; Men liked by Geisha
Girls; Men disliked by Geisha Girls ; Kinds
of the Geisha Spree; Kinds of guests classi-
fied by Geisha Girls; Are men of what age
most liked by Geisha Girls: The waiting-
house. (or the Assignation-house) ; Learning
of Geisha Girls. And an appendix gives full
descriptions of the Geisha quarters in local
cities. The quaint English of the author is
artlessly attractive ; but the real value of the
book resides in the numerous Illustrations in
color and tone specially done for the book by
Japanese artists.


GatJjoat/fofderas/iye
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for WEN’S WEARABLES.
HuuiuiHWii'wHmc
N these days of
national as well as
individual economy
the well-dressed man
I —the man who prides him-
self upon his personal appear-
ance —gives more than usual
consideration to the subject
of clothes.
To such men the resources
of Anthony Horderns' de-
partments which outfit man
and boy from head to foot
offer facilities that are without
equal, facilities that enable
the average man to substan-
tially reduce his expenditure
on essential winter wearables
without unduly taxing his
purse.
Economy allied with excellence is the basic
principle which governs everything that comes
under the influence of Anthony Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices. City men and men from every part
of Australia consistently select their requirements
from the Suits and such-like available at the New
Palace Emporium, where the stocks axe so diversi-
fied that they meet the requirements of every
section of the community.
As an example we illustrate the AQTONTOSH
WATERPROOF COAT, created and made by
English tailors for the man who demands distinction
in his dress.
The AQTJINTOSH COAT is an ideal wet-weather gar-
mcnt —it is absolutely rain repellent and will not become stiff
and unyielding.
The AQTJINTOSH RAINCOAT is made from Alpacord,
a patented all-wool material which is rendered permanently
waterproof.
An AQHINTOSH COAT, owing to the excellence of the
proofing, has hygienic properties not possessed by many rain-
coats. The proofing is rubberless, within the fibre, conse-
quently it is real and permanent —it lets the air in but keeps
the rain out. This is a point in favor of Aquintosh Water-
proofs which wearers greatly appreciate.
AQUINTOSH RAINCOATS are distinctive in cut and
finish, and can be worn whenever an overcoat is needed.
Offered in sizes to fit the small man, the average-sized man
or the out-size man.
The AQUINTOSH COAT is made in Fawn, Light
Fawn, Light Brown, Green, and Navy, and may be had in
several shapes, with step or storm collar, vertical or cross
pockets, inside ticket pocket, strap cuffs, fly front or to button
through, half lined or lined throughout.
Prices: £4/4/-, £5 and £5/5/-
sd
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


When You
Follow The
Trail ' #
✓ - .
• Go
Equipped With
WINCHESTM
Guns ao 6 Ammunition
Made for all kinds
of shooting.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
ASK FOR THE
W
BRAND
■
P’-- )k 1
The Right Way
to Clean a Window
When you wash a window with plain
water, some of the dirt comes off and
some of it clings to the wet glass and
is merely moved around. The prob-
lem with any cleaner is to lift the dirt
off the glass.
Bon Ami is applied on the glass as a
wet, foamy lather to loosen and dis-
solve the dirt. The lather dries like a
metal-polish to a white, dry film, and
when you wipe this film away
with a dry cloth, the dirt comes away
easily with the dry lather, leaving the
glass immaculate.
Bon Ami is the only window cleaner
and its unique wet-and-dry method of
cleaning is the only perfect method.
It leaves no streaks or smears. It
takes only one minute.
At your Grocer’s.
§ an the
Fincr Kinds of
Special Offers in Guns & Rifles.
TRADE mark LOOK, SPORTSMEN !
NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY A MUZZLE-LOADING GUN. CONSIDER
YOUR OUTLAY ON CARTRIDGES! With a muzzle-loader you get the same
sport for 5/- 100, whereas cartridges will cost you 15/- 100.
D.B.M.L. GUN, best barrels, walnut stock. Usual Price, £4.
SALE PRICE, 40/-
S.B.M.L. GUN. Usual Price, 25/- SALE PRICE, 20/-
5.8.8. L. DUCK GUN, 12-bore, long distance, heavy breech, pistol grip, walnut
stock, steel barrel PRICE, £3/15/-
SPORTING RABBIT RIFLE PRICE, 15/-. Cartridges, 2/- 100.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARMS CO., 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
fs
rr
I
A Little Stick of
WRIGLEYS
Makes the Whole World Kin!
"The
Flavour Lasts”
All over the world this
famous chewing sweet
gives long-lasting refresh-
ment and comfort.
The soldiers and sailors in
the great war are cheered
by its benefits.
Send some to YOUR defender.
It aids appetite and digestion.
Quenches thirst.
3d. per packet of 5 big
bars at Chemists, Confec-
tioners and other
stores.
‘'o*
9o
s
SB
“After
every meal 99
Or send 3
penny
Stamps to
J. C. Gam-
bles & Coy,
Commerce
House,
Melbourne.
rsv
JS>
m £
Jv*
SOLDIERS IN EUROPE
rrip
JAPANESE GIRLS IN TOKYO
cs
w<rfA, j\\\x
|=^4L>^L/l}
ORKERS IN U.S.A
lQ
w.
OX DRIVER IN SINGAPORE
Made
in
AUSTRALIA
80
df
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins By all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FAILING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
■I ARE YOU n
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER.ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
i
w.
m.
wazd*
THE BEST
MOKE
is
ELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO


CELEBRATED
23
3
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
lias become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is fred from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Cd. each, °r posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdln & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart. [1
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Did It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process,
made the following statement: “Any lady
or gentleman can darken their grey or faded
hair, stimulate its growth and make it soft
and glossy with this simple recipe, which
they can mix at home. To a half-pint of water
add loz. of bay rum and 1 small box of
Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be purchased at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair every other day
until the grey hair is darkened sufficiently.
This mixture relieves itching and is excel-
lent for dandruff. It does not stain the
scalp, is not sticky or greasy and does not
rub off. It will make a grey-haired person
look 10 to 20 years younger.”— Advt. [3
CINNAS
Qpnak
™ *
fake
You
JUSI
like that-i
Cinnak is a pink powder,
which liquefies as soon as it
is placed on the tongue, and
throws off a gas which at
once penetrates the breathing
passages, sterilises the cold
germs, gives immediate relief,
and very quickly cures colds,
sore throats and nasal catarrh.
SEND IT TO THE. BOYS
AT THE FRONT.
It prevents as well as cures. An occa-
sional dose is an excellent protection against
meningitis, colds, laryngitis, etc.
ALL CHEMISTS SELL CINNAK,
per tube
per tube.
Tobacco
Kills!
*i
1
i
m
m.\
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, undet
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Q. CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
fl 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
sd
fs
In Grandpa’s Courting Days
—Yes, as long ago as that—there was a standard, safe-
and-sure, proved effective family remedy for
allthroat and chest troubles, and its name was
To-day it is still the safest, speediest,
surest Remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis Whooping Cough and
Influenza, relief of Asthma and a
preventive of Pneumonia. If it isn’t
Bonnington’s it isn t any good.
Large & Small Bottles, 1/6 & 2/6
df
If you must rear
baby by hand
Then there’s
his Bottle
Mellin’s Feed-
ing Bottle is
the perfect and
simple Feeder.
adopt a food which approaches most closely to
Mother’s Milk, and which yields positive results.
Mellin ? s Food is the tried and proved equivalent
to Mother’s Milk; its success is evidenced by
world-wide recommendation. Simple to prepare;
no tedious cooking —it is alike a boon to the
nursing mother and satisfying to the child.
Mellin's
Food
Write NOW for sample of Mellin’s Food and useful Handbook
for Mothers —“The Care of Infants in Australia”—post free.
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
ACCESSORIES
For Your Tool Kit
In times of emergency when repair shops
are miles away, you are not helpless,
provided you carry a Repair Ki|,
supplied with Firestone Accessories.
Hook-On Outside Gaiters for
straight side or clincher tyrds;
Lace-On Outside Gaiters for any
tyre; Elow-out Patches; Hold-
fast Cementless Tube Patches; *
Pumps; “Cure-Cut” Cement;
Firestone Tyre Tape;
Pressure Gauges; Tyre Mica;
Valve Parts, etc..
»Small things to carry, big '
things to have, when
troubles come.
Grimier, Ltd., Sydney, New Sou* Wale.
F. A. McCarty & Co., Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Victoria and Tasmania
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, Sou* Australia
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.,
Per*, Wi
astVi
Harvey Frost
estera Australia
Co., Ltd.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd;,
’"'-—‘-tSESa
Obtainable at alt
Garaget
Write for Illustrate
ed Literature j
urctslon*
CURE - CUT
'•WSToit tlit S
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Marigolds.
I’ve a secret I must tell you of these flaiing
yellow flowers ...
Doing penance in the sunshine through the
torrid noonday hours: ,
They are Cinderella’s sisters, Cinderella s
jealous sisters,
And they turned to yellow blossoms from the
jaundice in their hearts.
Though she sleeps long years in silence, in
the shady aisles of silence,
Scentless, stiff reincarnations, they must
play their weary parts.
Cinderella, with her slipper and her eyes ot
haunting wonder,
Lies these many dusty ages snugly tucked
the cool earth under ;
She who queened it. in some castle, place ot
ivied walls and casements,
With the purple pride of arras hiding doors
that led to basements
For a horde of hungry servants, men-at-arms
and sly-foot minions,
Groom to tend her dappled palfrey, page to
dress her kestrel’s pinions—
Not the modest Cinderella of the rags and
chimney corner.
But a prince’s wife triumphant o’er the
heads of every scorner !
Did they hang her breast with jewels when
her head grew bowed and hoary?
Was she happy in her castle? That is quite
another story.
To the breeze her jealous sisters might a
spiteful tale unfold.
They who were such social failures could
not even marry gold.
With their faded curls and faces, clawing
hate at one another,
Punished by the ready magic of the arrow-
eyed godmother,
They were changed to strident blossoms,
vernal morning finds them here,
Bringing flaunt of yellow envy to a green
world every year.
I’ve a secret I can tell you of these hard-
faced yellow flowers,
Boldly daring curious comment through the
torrid midday hours:
They are Cinderella’s sisters, Cinderella’s
jealous sisters,
And their faces show the malice stirring
through a small soul’s sleep.
She is dust who won the lover. So it seems
the wide world over
Love must die, and gentle beauty, but the
roots of Hate strike deep!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Merry Roseen.
There’s a little house where glad eyes shone
In the green bush-days of yore;
The light’s still there, but the eyes have
gone,
And I knock at its gate no more.
For a bird is dead and its song is mute,
And a hawk’s tense claws are red,
And Merry Roseen, with a name to* suit
The beat of her heart, has fled.
“Now, whether the mot . be bright or
blurred,”
Said Merry Roseen to me,
“I shall voice the joy of the singing bird
In the green of his leaf ’ tree.”
She was fresh as a flower in the early dew,
And sweet to her finger-tips,
And a laugh lurked there in her eyes of
blue,
And a smile on her rosebud lips.
“0 Merry Roseen,” I said, “ ’tis well
To prattle and laugh and sing,
But only the years themselves can tell
What the years themselves will bring.
“ ’Tis honey for some and gall for some
That eomes as the moments fleet;
And never a life, like a honeycomb,
Is altogether sweet.”
But Merry Roseen she tossed her head
And laughed in my eyes, forsooth ;
And went her way with a lightsome tread
On the rose-red paths of youth.
And her tale is the tale of a bird, I mind,
That sang as the hours went by,
Alive to the sun and alert to the wind,
Yet blind to the hawk in the sky.
For the air with a flutter of plumes grew
rife,
And a red rain sprinkled the srreen;
And the hawk was the brooding care of life,
And the bird was Merry Roseen.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Full Moon.
There is a woman silver-fair
A-swimming in a sapphire sea,
That softly lifts her streaming hair
To leave the pearl-pale shoulders bare,
The glimmering bosom free.
Like blade unsheathed, her gleaming side
And the soft radiance of her limbs
In bride-like splendor, quivering wide,
Lights all the darkly streaming tide
About her as she swims.
Frail garlands twine each floating tress
With gathered blooms of milky foam.;
Each wave a satin-smooth caress,
Born of the deep sea’s tenderness,
To bear her beauty home.
So in her slow, white grace she cleaves
The sparkling depths, to where afar,
’Neath the still spell her presence weaves,
Night’s tranquil ocean, whispering, heaves
. Low round a setting star.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


IWWMIJIiIiHMII!
iiime
nmnnnßni
Will
0m
«-
SS
3
*
»«k
»
WATER
Obtainable through all Chemists and Stores.
Manufactured by—
If you want a good Hot Water Bag—a bag that will give you reliable
wear a bag that is guaranteed by the manufacturers, then get a
“TITAN.” All seams are double solutioned and reinforced with an
extra strip of fabric and each “ TITAN ” Bag is fitted with a rubber
covered stopper and safety valve which allows the steam to escape
whilst being filled.
The following guarantee is attached to every “Titan Bag:—
This “TITAN” (Regd.)
HOT WATER BAG
is guaranteed for season 1917-1918
under the following conditions:—
Should this bag break through any
defect in manufacture before Sept.
23rd, 1918, it will be replaced with
a new one less proportionate allow-
ance for the unexpired period of
the guarantee.
The manufacturers’ responsibility
is limited to replacement only.
PRICES:
sdf
Three popular sizes- Many other
sizes made both smaller and
larger.
PERDRIAU Rubber Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisba
ne, Adelaide, PertH, Newcastle
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
OENYER
PRICES
Single Elastic Truss, 20/-
Double Elastic Truss, 27/6
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Brothers
George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
.1 V
V.
r n /»•
9 : A.
i /*<( ck fit ” ya
\ f ,>•■ '*& V W • f j\,
Sk
mi
m
wm
1W
The Strength of ATLAS in a drop of
PLUME BENZINE
THE ability of Atlas to carry the Globe on his
broad shoulders is positively outdone by the
ability of “Plume” to create power,
Fill up with “Plume” and you get a spirit so rich in
heat units, so full of energy, that the maximum of
horse power is developed in your qngine.
Every gallon of this popular Benzine is of the same
high quality—a quality that ensures “easy starting,
sweet running, more miles.’ * All garages sell it.
Vacuum Oil Go. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Pit. a
0
fj
A
mw.
m i
m
..
mm
FULL
SIZE
TYRES
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
DUVAL 8 CO.,
13 Castlereagh St M SYDNEY ; 145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., ADELAIDE; A. C. McCALLUM, PERTH ;
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, HOBART.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.- Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1950.
Tlll’llSDAV, JUNE 28, 1917.
Pkice 6d.
UM-M-M.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosinan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I'or £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christinas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Pest free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the term of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Titles or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, ivill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn-—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/J/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postagre Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 16oz.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 8oz., Id.; 8ioz. to 10oz., 2ld. ;
lOoz. to 12oz., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ffitTZßxvcZldfot.
THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 1917.
THE SEVEN PLAGUES OF
AUSTRALIA.
Every five minutes or so a voice is heard
announcing that something is a matter of
great importance and must be attended to
after the war. How many subjects are then
going to be promptly handled Heaven only
knows. At a low estimate the number is
7492, and the total on the schedule promises
to be 9497 before the first three have been
sorted out for treatment. The matters already
listed range from the Federal Constitution to
dry farming, from the tariff and organic Im-
perialism to the cost of living and technical
education. In some cases the postpone-
ment is, in the circumstances of the hour,
unavoidable. In others adjournment merely
represents a scuttle for cover. It is not
much good, for instance, asking that the Con-
stitution should be shifted at once into the
repair shop. Whether delay is liked or not
it must be endured. The tariff represents
the other extreme. Use of the ice-chest for
this is quite indefensible. Direct injury is
being done to the Commonwealth by evasion.
Meanwhile, as the mountain of adjourned
problems and issues goes on increasing in
height, it is just as well to remember that
when the war is over few if any of these
matters are going to be settled on the lines
which might have been followed a year or
two ago. If the world is not going to be
quite new, public controversies on many ques-
tions are, for a whole barrowload of fresh
factors have been wheeled on to the premises,
and the mouse and the weevil are abroad in
the land.
Take the Constitution. There have been
frequent arguments about its revision, and
much uproar and perjury have prevailed. As
a general thing the intention of the suggested
amendments was merely to bring the written
document into line with what the people
reckoned they had bargained for 18 or 20
years ago. The result has been to promote
violent conflicts of opinion about Unification
and the horrors thereof: about the preserva-
tion of State Rights; about the protection of
the people from “further interference” and
so on and so forth. In all of this the party
yell was uppermost. One side wanted change
—sometimes merely because it teas change.
The other objected to change—usually be-
cause the word was mentioned and the enemy
had suggested it. But that day has gone.
There may be differences about the particu-
lar direction in which the Constitution con-
ferred upon this bright young land should be
altered; but that it must be changed—and
radically, too —is a point on which there is
no room for talk. It is beyond the wit of
even the Argus to make out a case for leav-
ing the Constitution as it is; on the other
hand, all the I'.L.L.’s in the Commonwealth
would be gravelled if they had to show rea-
son why a verbal amendment of a clause,
giving the Federal Parliament authority ro
deal with trusts, would not be mere farcical
inadequacy.
Stand off and view the outfit for the govern-
ment of Australia —seven Parliaments each
of two Houses and provided with 65S mem-
bers; each Parliament carrying the cus-
tomary appurtenances of flunkeydom and
officialdom ; and every one of them engaged in
a wild competition with public money! The
national indebtedness is going up—up—up.
Every Parliament is adding to the pile. Tax-
ation moves steadily in the same direction
seven Parliaments dipping into the same poc-
ket, pawning the same asset, piling burdens
on the same shoulders, yet each acting inde-
pendently of the other. Legislation is cum-
brous, confused and ineffective. The public
estate is almost openly plundered. Waste
and muddle are rampant. Great national
issues are under this preposterous system let
go hang so long as attention from them can
be distracted by tossing money around. No
country could stand this. None ever has
stood it. To imagine that Australia can
fumble along indefinitely in such a way is
sheer madness. The load Australia is carry-
ing is mighty big. Every month makes it
greater; every day the Australian States are
allowed to go on wading into debt, crippling
the Federation, screwing taxation out of the
people, dropping money down their respec-
tive sinks and plastering the landscape with
mortgages, the future being more heavily
discounted and our democracy more seriously
imperilled. That the Commonwealth has not
curbed the States is a matter calling for
much regret. But anything it could do within
the limits of the Constitution would be more
or less futile. The basis of the thing must
be altered, for it has grown rotten. What-
ever change is made must be one that will
save the Commonwealth from being preyed
upon by half a dozen superfluous institu-
tions. If the war lasts much longer this pro-
blem will not stand over till the finish. It
may settle itself by falling in a heap.
THE CASE AGAINST COMPULSION.
Ex-Senator Arthur Rae puts the case
against compulsory service :
In The Bulletin article (14/6/’l7) suggesting
the taking of another Referendum on Compulsory
Military Service, you urge that it is grossly incon-
sistent for Labor supporters to object, when they
openly advocate submitting proposed amendments
of the Federal Constitution over and over again
until the people are educated up to their necessity.
You further assert that it cannot be wrong to take
the vote again if it was right to take it in the
first place. The latter contention must be agreed
with ; but was it right to take it the first time ? I
hold not.
The Referendum, like any other human instrumen-
tality, has its limitations and is capable of abuse.
I'hat it was an abuse of the principle to submit Con-
scription to a popular referendum I am convinced
for the following reasons:—
(1) At least two-thirds of the electors and pro-
bably a much larger proportion were by reason of
sex, old age or physical infirmity exempt from mili-
tary service, and could therefore easily out-vote those
who were liable. This is grossly undemocratic.
(2) The decision once made in favor of compul-
sory military service is irrevocable so far as the
fate of those enrolled by virtue of that decision is
concerned. It therefore amounts to sentence pf
death being passed upon some persons by the votes
of others, and not by judicial sentence for proved
wrong doing.
(3) The fact that the majority stood to gain
material benefits, such as greater security for their
lives, property, health and happiness, by condemning
the minority to exile, hardship, separation from home
and kindred, to wounds, sickness, disablement, dis-
ease and death, proves conclusively that it violates
every standard of fair-play and common decency,
and makes the claim for “equality of sacrifice” a
grim joke.
Of course it may be argued that the result of
any referendum —or Act of Parliament, for that
matter—will be to benefit some and injure others.
Admitted; but in ordinary circumstances, such for
instance as the imposition of a land tax by referen-
dum, the intention is to equalise conditions by
annulling a special privilege possessed by some to
the detriment of the many. Although the landless,
being in the majority, impose a burden upon the
minority, yet whenever one of the landless majority
becomes a land-owner he must bear his share of the
burden, and in like manner he who loses his land
ceases to pay the tax. This is but an illustration
of the operation of any ordinary popular decision
however arrived at. In the case of Conscription
these conditions are entirely absent. The women,
the old men and the unfit, who vote “Yes” for
others, have an eternal “No” recorded on their own
behalf, and even if they change their minds can
never reverse the decision which has certainly con-
demned some men’s wives to widowhood and many
children to be orphans. Other law-made mistakes
may be altered and innocent victims compensated.
The death sentence once carried out is beyond recall
or recompense.
It may be urged that compulsion for Home
Defence is no different in principle from compulsion
for service abroad. Theoretically that may be so,
but in practice there are differences, vital and many.
There can be no dispute as to the reality and extent
of the danger when an armed force invades our
country. There is then no alternative but to fight
or surrender. To attack an enemy on his own soil
to prevent him from attacking us on ours may be
good strategy, but it has been the hollow pretext
for every act of wanton aggression committed by
the Great European Powers for centuries past.
Again, the forfeiture of civil rights and submis-
sion to a military autocracy, frequently cruel and
tyrannical, is tempered and restrained in the sol-
dier’s own country, where press and Parliament may
right his wrongs. In a foreign land the military
hold absolute power over their forces, and redress
for wrongs suffered is practically impossible.
This characteristically fair and temperate
statement of the “anti’s” position calls for a
categorical answer; and here it is in as few
words as possible :
(X) It is true that those who are not liable for
service outnumber those who are liable. It is also
true that those who are not liable for income tax
outnumber those who are liable. But they all have
an equal say at the ballot-box. If it were put to the
vote whether a war-profits tax should be collected, it
would be grossly undemocratic to limit the vote to
those who would have to pay if it were passed.
(2) Mr. Rae was elected to the Senate a few
years ago. His opponents declared that it would
be nationally disastrous if he won. He did win:
and Mr. Rae no doubt said that, he having been
chosen by the majority, the minority must put up
with the consequences—that, in short, the conse-
quences would be more disastrous if the minority had
its way. Further, if a majority decides against universal
service it equally means sentence of death on some
others —on those, that is, who are not reinforced.
It may mean worse than sentence of death, too, on
those who, because they did not do their national
duty, allowed their country to be defeated and pos-
sibly over-run. The majority in Belgium voted down
Conscription; and what happened to the minority in
Belgium is too shocking to think about.
(3) In a national crisis every person called
upon to do for the State what the State decides that
he can do best. If the State says that some can best
pay, they must pay. If it decides that they can
best fight, they must fight. The majority in a
union decides on a strike. It may thereby, as
nobody knows belter than Mr. Rae, condemn the
minority to hardship; but if the minority decided
that it would not put up with the hardship, and
would keep on at work, Mr. Rae would be the first
to say that they did not know what either fair play
or decency was. If the State has not as much claim
on the people as a union has on its members, then
it is our democracy that is a grim joke.
(4) Mr. Rae says that a referendum on a land
tax, for instance, would be quite different, because
“although the landless, being in the majority, impose
a burden upon the minority, yet whenever one of
the landless majority becomes a landowner he must
bear his share of the burden, and in like manner he
who loses his land ceases to pay the tax.” Ten,
twenty, thirty years ago those males who are ineli-
gible for service to day would have been eligible.
Had Conscription been adopted then, they would
have been obliged to serve. Ten, twenty, thirty
years hence those who are liable to-day will be
ineligible. The position is thus exactly the same
with regard to Conscription as with regard to a land
tax. And Mr. Rae admits that a referendum on a
land tax is a fair thing.
(5) “A death sentence once carried out is beyond
recall or recompense.” This is true of a nation and
of a nation’s ideals as well as of an individual. If
a unit of a nation will not fight for a nation’s life
he has no right to enjoy the benefits which that
nation confers upon him. If a man will not pay
his union’s dues he has no right to membership of
that union. If he takes the benefits and refuses to
pay the dues Mr. Rae would call him a scab.
(6) Mr. Rae admits, or at least infers, that com-
pulsion for Home Service is right. “There can be
no dispute when an armed force invades our country.”
When Mr. Rae finds a man with a bag climbing
through his window he may also conclude that the
visitor is not coming in to deliver tracts. Mr. Rae says
that the tale that it is good strategy to attack a
nation on his own soil in order to prevent him
attacking us on ours has been the hollow pretext
for every act of wanton aggression committed by
the Great Powers for centuries. It is quite true. It
is true this time of Germany. That nation wantonly
over-ran Belgium and France. Is it right to go to
the rescue of the weak when it is over-run by the
wantonly aggressive? What did Mr. Rae say when
he was a union organiser ?
(7) If we are not to go out to meet the enemy
because the soldiers can’t take their civil rights
with them into another country, it means that we
must always wait at home to be attacked. If a
fiend is outraging Mr. Rae’s neighbor’s wife on'the
neighbor’s ground, Mr. Rae must not go to the
rescue. There is no social obligation on him to do
so. It would be unfair for society to require Mr.
Rae to go if Mr. Rae’s grandfather was not also
required to pick up his crutches and go. Besides, Mr.
Rae might get hurt; and society has no right, appar-
ently, to require Mr. Rae to go where he may get
hurt. On the neighbor’s property he has not the
same rights as he has at home. That is another
reason why the neighbor’s wife must do the best
she can for herself. The murderous fiend will be
over the fence presently into Mr. Rae’s backyard.
Then it will be time for Mr. Rae to act. If Mr. Rae
can't then manage the fiend single-handed, so much
the worse for Mr. Rae. That is how Mr. Rae’s theory
works out. But it isn’t a bit like Mr. Rae would act.
* * * *
And when Mr. Rae has said all that he can
say against the compulsory system, what has
he got to say for his alternative—the volun-
tary system? How can he defend the waste
of it, the social unfairness of it, the hap-
hazardness of it, and what excuses can he
make for those who “scab” on their coun-
try ? It is not necessary for any conscrip-
tionist to show that his system is a perfect
and beautiful thing. It is not anything of
the sort. It is a horrible thing. But it is
necessary for Mr. Rae to show that his sys-
tem is better. And he hasn’t even attempted
to do that. No voluntaryist ever does.
A CHANCE FOR THE SHIP IF JONAH
WILL STAY ASHORE.
The vague proposal for big industrial devel-
opments supported by Commonwealth capi-
tal—a scheme on which the win-the-war
party is supposed to look with favor—may
have something in it. Hitherto State ven-
tures in Australia have damned themselves
pretty thoroughly through the mismanage-
ment of the inexpert politicians who have
taken charge. Such public services as the
Post Office and the railway systems howl
aloud for business reform, while ventures in
fish, coal, pubs, bricks, wheat-growing and
timber have in most cases been highly-
flavored with failure. That it is the poli-
tician who is at fault is in most instances
clear enough. The man who bears the
alleged resoonsibility knows that disaster in-
volves no punishment and carries no parti
cular loss of repute in the only circles that
matter to the party man; and this amounts
to no responsibility at all. Still the plain
fact stands that an industry which the
people own, and which is therefore co-opera-
tive in the best sense, ought to make good.
But control by the vote-hungry politician is
from its very nature foredoomed; and, in
the light of that experience, even enthusi-
asts for national co-operation are forced to
look round for some method by which the
benefits of combination can be secured and
the evils of political control eliminated. In
America vast private combines have built up
industries on a gigantic scale and achieved
success. Some of these have shamelessly
exploited the people; some, in spite of the
millions passed along to their shareholders,
have been of great public benefit. On the
other hand, though States have had the popu-
lation and resources to attempt the largest
thing's, they have failed lamentably when the
politician instead of the business man has
had control. Take the case of electric power
in Great Britain, as instanced in a recent
number of the Edinburgh Review :
In 1870 the State acquired possession of the
electric-telegraph system of the country, which had
been built up by various private companies. Ihe
purchase was recommended to the House of Com-
mons as a splendid bargain for the State. Ihe
permanent officials who prepared the scheme assured
the House that the whole of the capital cost would
be repaid in 15 years out of profits, and that after
that period there would be an ever-increasing
revenue to relieve the burdens of the taxpayer. That
was the promise. What actually happened was that
the whole of the profit disappeared after the second
year of working by the State; that year by year the
financial position has grown worse, till in the last
years of peace the telegraphs were costing the tax-
payer a sum which cannot be put at less than
£1,400,000 per annum.
Meanwhile, the telephone had been invented. Dur-
ing many years the State, in order to protect its
telegraph monopoly, did its utmost to stifle the
development of the new invention. Finally, the
State bought up the telephones, completing the pur-
chase in the year 1911. Again there were prophe-
cies—though in a somewhat minor key—of a
lucrative bargain. These prophecies have gone the
way of the old ones. The whole of the handsome
tribute of over £350,000 a year, which the National
Telephone Company was gratuitously paying to the
State, vanished at once, and within three years the
income collected by the State barely covered out-
goings. After the war —unless telephone rates are
greatly raised—it will be found that the telephone
service, like the telegraph service, has become a
heavy drain upon the taxpayer.
So that the case of Australian political mis-
management does not stand alone; and the
problem still remains of how to secure for
public capital, under public control, a success
similar to that achieved by the great private
trusts.
* * * *
The weakness of Private Enterprise is its
greed; the bad spot in public undertakings
is the lack of real responsibility, on the part
of those in charge. The scheme now before
the Commonwealth might easily be of such a
nature as to combine and intensify both
evils; but there is a sporting chance that
something might be evolved that would give
the public a fair deal and secure the advan-
tage _of business management, even though
the industries remained under Government
regulation. Nothing is more certain than
costly failure if politicians make the under-
takings a means of corrupting the constitu-
encies ; but the success of the Commonwealth
Bank suggests that there is a means of side-
stepping such a calamity without losing the
opportunity which is undoubtedly offered by
the present mood of the people with regard
to Australian industries. About the best
results achieved in England, from the point
of view of the ordinary citizen, were those
which followed the restrictions placed upon
the railway and gas companies. These com-
panies were, and still are, entirely private
concerns; but they are limited as to divi-
dends and charges, and in other matters are
regulated by Acts of Parliament. The pub-
lic, through these simple checks upon the
rapacity of Private Enterprise, have good
services and a great deal of comfort at a
low cost. A comparison of the results with
those of the less-restricted American rail-
ways and gas cos. shows how great a thing
can be accomplished by a very simple
expedient. In a somewhat similar -way it
might be possible to call into being indus-
tries of the kind now suggested in which the
Commonwealth would be a direct share-
holder, but with which,- beyond laying down
the general lines on which business must be
conducted, no passing Ministry would have
any right to interfere. In this way the indus-
trial expert would stick to his job and the
political expert to his, and the calamity of
mixing things might be avoided.
One point well worth considering is the
effect that direct Commonwealth investments
in industrial concerns must have on the
tariff. It would be no longer possible to
sink the fiscal issue at the desire of a Free-
trader, when the public revenue was looking
for. dividends from concerns which were per-
ishing for lack of Protection. Hitherto suc-
cessive Treasurers have turned their eyes to
the Customs duties obtainable from foreign-
made goods and almost feared local industry.
A revenue tariff which failed to protect was
the sheet anchor of the man who presented
the annual budget; but, with the Common-
wealth a large shareholder in the new ven-
tures, this would be pleasantly changed and
a. tariff which really protected, and therefore
yielded little revenue in those lines, would
be the thing to be desired. Of course, the
natural and simple method of creating Aus-
tralian factories and inducing Australians to
make the things Australians require, is the
imposition of Customs duties which exclude
the wares of the foreigner; but Australia
has so long played with the issue and put
off the day of reform that it is now neces-
sary to do something drastic in order to make
up some of the leeway. Some such scheme
as that proposed certainly might help. On
the start almost everything depends. A wild
whirling of cash into a bog falsely labelled
industry might saddle the Australian future
with the cheerless job of trying to get some
of it out again. But there is a chance for
a good scheme if someone will sit down hard
and heavily on the interference of the party
noliticier.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
If Ivan
The soldier in the army of the late Czar
was kept in pretty solid ignorance of his
real place in the scheme of things, and it
was hardly to be expected that a few weeks
of revolution would give him the necessary
education to enable him to appreciate the
value of his own war service to the future
of his liberated nation. But by all accounts
he is discussing things at a great rate now,
and the w T hole line from Riga to Bessarabia
is one vast debating society. This is about


the best thing that coulcl be looked for. If
Ivan, the real fighting man, can get the hang
of things it will be bad for the Kaiser s
plans. Too much discussion among soldiers
may be bad for discipline in the eyes of hide-
bound persons of the old military order; but
understanding may be worth more than disci-
pline. It is on record that the armies of
the Parliament, which in smashing up the
tricks of Charles I. of England made their
name a terror to all fat and effete things in
Europe, knew nothing about discipline off
the field of battle, and the early armies of
the French Republic were much the same.
But the people who composed these forces
knew what they were fighting for with con-
siderable accuracy ; and that knowledge hard-
ened up into what was in reality the best
sort of discipline when they met the foe.
There is just a chance that the . Russian
soldiers may do the same; and if a big
forward move on the rapid and destructive
plan favored by Brusiloff should be the
result of the long debate, the German will
find a person climbing over into his trenches
whose make and style are entirely unfamiliar
to him, and whose bayonet is pushed for-
ward with a particularly virile republican
thrust. It is safe to say that if Ivan does
move, the British will be as far forward by
the close of the present year as they were
in September, 1914. Then with America
soaring in on countless flocks of aeroplanes,
Austria shattered and hopeless and France
all French, the end of the trouble may be in
sight. It all hangs on an If; and the key
of that indrawn monosyllable is Ivan and
the sort of man he really is.
The State Scramble for that Last
Shill ins'.
The story of the Commonwealth’s lendings
to the States is abominable. Prior to the war
they had secured £2,634,000 out of the Notes
Fund. Soon after the disturbance started
they got £18,000,000 from the same source,
so that at the beginning of this month 41 per
cent, of the “asset” created by the issue of
Commonwealth Notes had been mopped up
by the States! It looks like a weird mix-
ture of lunacy and burglary. What with
borrowings here and there and the diversion
of money from its rightful war purposes the
Commonwealth has emptied £31,134,000 out
of the Federal cashbox into the State recep-
tacles. For what? Simply to maintain a policy
of Shirk and Bloat while the nation has been
piling up a stupendous war debt, and is
likely to have to go on piling it. . In addition
the Commonwealth committed itself to an
undertaking to borrow for the States (other
than N. S. Wales) £7,450,000 a year till
12 months after the war. It may be possible
to continue this maniacal programme; but
that it can be carried out except at the cost
of serious trouble presently this paper firmly
declines to believe. Meanwhile a couple of
facts in connection with these loans and
promises are weighing heavily on the Federal
Government’s chest. One is that the afore-
said £18,000.000 is repayable during the
financial year commencing next week. Up
to the present none of the States have signi-
fied their intention of reimbursing the Com-
monwealth. They are not talking about that
part of the contract; but some of them are
making a song about the infamy of with-
holding their whack of the new £7,450,000.
The only way out for the States seems to
be to repay the Federal Treasury by convert-
ing the IOU into debt of longer currency.
This gives Bigjohn Forrest an opnortunity
to save the Commonwealth from further
spoliation ; for the price of this compromise
should be the cancellation of the undertaking
to provide the States with further loans.
But whether there is a set-off or not it would
be a discreditable thing for the States _to
hold the Commonwealth to an undertaking
given under very different conditions; and
it says little for the real patriotism of the
people that a State Government should even
think of daring to push the Commonwealth
for the money at such a time of national
crisis.
Holman’s Plea for What Australia Badly
Wants.
This paper sees no reason for girding at
Holman because he asked that Australians
should be allowed to know a little more of
the truth about the war. . Of course, it is
easy enough to ridicule him—to say
smartly that he is a mere speck on the land-
scape, that the British Cabinet has some-
thing more to do than run around keeping
him supplied with information, and that if
Lloyd George cannot save the Empire a
pert young man from Sydney is not to be
trusted to do it. But all this is mere frivolity.
As The Bulletin understands the cabled
report of Holman’s speech, he was suggest-
ing that, as a participant in the war, Aus-
tralia should be able to learn as much about
the innards of things as if the struggle were
going on in the neighborhood. What is there
to be jocose about in such a request as this?
It is indubitable that Australians have, gener-
ally speaking, been kept in profound igno-
rance about the war and everything inciden-
tal to it. For long over two years they were
stuffed with lying trash about pending vic-
tory. While Australian troops were hanging
on by their eyebrows to Gallipoli without a
thousand to one chance of doing what they
went to do, it is a solemn fact that the
people were almost to a man convinced that
Billjim was going to change his address to
Constantinople before the following Sunday.
No paper was permitted to suggest any
doubt of it. It was very much the same until
lately regarding France. To say that “Aus-
tralians get the same neivs as the people in
London” is to miss the target by a mile. If
the Englishman has to be fed on pap, that is
no reason why Australians should be. They
are entitled to the largest measure of naked
truth consistent with the safety of the army
and navy. To give them anything else is
indefensible. To suggest lies to them is a crime
against the Democracy. To color the news —
refusing publication to-day of what will be
permitted to-morrow in order to influence
some political movement —is beyond defence.
Holman’s protest against public policy hav-
ing to be determined by such scraps served
up to the man in the street by censored
newspapers is thoroughly well founded. The
debates in the Federal Parliament have been
just as trumpery. This paper can remember
no single occasion on which the Australian
Minister for Defence has made a statement
worth listening to about Australia’s war.
The attitude of numerous Hughes Minis-
ters has always been that “Australia must
do as she is told” —in other words, that the
population should go staggering along on the
blind. It is a doctrine this paper has always
repudiated, and repudiates again, as un-
worthy of the Commonwealth Parliament
and a cause of mental paralysis among the
people. From the point of view of Australian
nationalism it is no doubt a sorry business to
see a State Premier asking on behalf of Aus-
tralia for more light and leading ; but it is
a long way better to have even this than to
endure perpetual mystification without show-
ing resentment.
What Shall We Do with the Senate?
“Wealsman’s” contribution: —
Proportional representation and preference voting
for the Senate? Certainly, if we must have a Senate.
But why not abolish the useless absurdity right
away? It never was and never can be a preserver
of State Rights in any effective manner while par-
ties exist, and parties cannot fail to continue until
class differences disappear utterly, and that will not
happen while a vestige of the wage system remains.
And long before that State Rights will have become
as mythical as the color of Mahomet’s whiskers, so
the Senate might as well be got rid of at once,
before the world discovers that Australia is loony
enough to pay 36 undistinguished citizens some
£25,000 a year to say “ditto” to the remarks of
the Reps.
To argue that the Senate can say either more or
less than “ditto” is more foolish now than ever it
was. Once upon a time it was thought that the
G.-G. might stand between Ministers and a Senate
threatened with a double-dissolution for daring to
disobey orders, but that idea was punctured for ever
in, 1914 when the Gov. of Tasmania was ruled out
of order for declining to act on the advice of his
Ministers. This means that the Senate is dependent
for its existence on the goodwill of the Reps., and
dare not attempt to veto hasty or bad legislation,
whether affecting the whole Commonwealth or the
States as States. It is inconceivable that the democ-
racy of Australia will tolerate any long delay in the
statutory enactment of the Initiative-Referendum.
The people will then say their own “ditto,” or the
other thing, as they please, and the last shred of
excuse for the existence of the Senate will be no
more.
Although the abolition of the Senate is not yet
widely discussed in public (so far as I know, only
one candidate at the recent Federal elections men-
tioned it as a possibility) there is little doubt that
a referendum on' the question of amending the Con-
stitution by including the Initiative-Referendum
and Recall and excluding the Senate, would
be affirmed by a majority of Australian electors. It
is equally certain that any application of the pro-
portional voting system to the Senate would, by mak-
ing it a trifle less absurd-looking than it now is, give
that expensive luxury a longer lease of its useless
life, and indefinitely postpone Direct legislation.
To-day the Senate hasn’t a leg to stand on. It is
like a pyramid standing on its head and waving its
roots in the atmosphere. Give it a prop in the shape
of a fancy voting system, and it may not fall for
half a century; give it a push, and its shadow
departs from the earth at once. The imported
element in Australian politics, if it gets half a
chance at Senate “reform,” is pretty sure to give
play to the genius for compromise that has estab-
lished John Bull’s reputation as the world’s cham-
pion legislative muddler. It is up to the real nation-
alists in the Australian Parliament to remember that
the most obstructive and arrogant and violently
undemocratic and ineradicable Upper Houses in
these States are those which possess some sort of
fancy franchise —a compromise between freedom and
feudalism; something that looks a little like both
its parents but is a “worse than either” half-caste
outrage on Australian democracy. Nominee Upper
Houses, on the other hand, are so obviously mere
curios that they have ceased to take themselves
seriously, and may be swept aside without protest
whenever necessary. Let us hold the Senate in a
similar position until we are ready to push it off the
landscape.
That “Strategic Railway” Again.
TnE P.L.L. Conference in N. S. Wales
decided last week that it was up to Australia
to take steps, “long overdue, for its own
protection,” by immediately building the
strategic railways reported necessary under
Andrew Fisher’s Prime Ministership. This
resolution appears to be one of those vague
things put in the most general terms to save
thinking, and hitched to Fisher’s name
because in the general smash-up of the party
he alone remains holy in P.L.L. eyes, and the
things done in his reign are still to be re-
garded as beyond reproach. If the “strategic
railways” mean only the line across the
corner of Australia to link up Adelaide with
Fisher’s former backyard in Queensland, it
seems hardly worth while dragging the poor
thing out again for fresh ridicule. But if
included in the vague generality is the big,
national direct line from Oodnadatta to Pine
Creek, the P.L.L. is right in claiming that
the job is necessary and its carrying out
much overdue. To talk about strategic
railways in the merely military sense
indicates a poor appreciation of our
national position. , The truth is our
strategy must be the same for peace and
war: our great problem in peace is how to
populate the fertile northern portion of the
continent; and because that portion lies most
open to attack, its settlement is our greatest
need also for defence. As a population-
spreader Fisher’s proposed corkscrew could
amount to nothing; the south-to-north rail-
way, if pushed ahead, could, on the other
hand, add another State to the Common-
wealth —and perhaps its richest State —
within a generation. More than this, the
alleged strategic railway across N. S. Wales
could at best be valuable only for defence
against a foe which had already invaded Aus-
tralia, and which held three-fourths of the
continent in its grasp ; the other line would
be the best guarantee that no such invasion
would take place. There is a bitter sus-
picion that the whole Fisher “strategic”
absurdity was merely a bluff to prevent any
popular clamor for real developmental lines
which would make Australians masters of
their own heritage; and now that the poor
trap set for the electors in pre-war times has
been thrown aside as no longer needed to
catch an unimaginative public, it is a little
surprising to find the P.L.L. taking the
rusted thing from the dustheap and carefully
baiting it with more vague verbiage.
♦—
The “Tank” that Can Climb over the
Strongest Fort.
The keen Yankee eye for essentials has at
once detected the fact that, given plenty of
cash, the surest way to multiply the fighting
force of an army at this moment is to mount
it on aeroplanes. The flying corps is the
new cavalry; and just as a few hundred
horsemen sent down the hill of Watei-100 at
the right time were more than a match for 15
times their number of tiptop footmen, so the
airmen can to-day get in a blow that has
foi-ce out of all proportion to the count of
pilots’ heads. If, as is proposed, something
like 30,000 American machines are sent soar-
ing to the destruction of the German com-
munications, the war may therefore be much
briefer than some people think. It may be
hard to aim a bomb at one small object while
flying a mile or two above it; but it can’t be
so hard to lob explosives on an army of a
million or two while on the move. There
seems to bo a lesson somewhere about here
for Australia. This continent was late in
taking to wings, although both the principle
of the aeroplane and the engine to di-ive it
seem to have been first demonstrated along-
side Sydney; and when Wilhelm started his
war there were very few aviators at this
end of the planet who knew enough to offer
their sei-vices for work on the top side of the
battle-cloud. Had Australian thought moved
ahead of militai-y advice —always a slow
affair in peace time—and with the beginning
of its defence preparations introduced the
aeroplane to its senior cadets, we might
easily have sent abroad a trained force rid-
ing Australian-made machines which would
have enabled the fighting strength of the
Commonwealth to count equally with that of
the big European nations, while its numeri-
cal count need not have been one-fourth of
what it is at present. The successful defence
of any country in the future is likely to
depend upon the defenders being one
ahead of the attackers in munitions and
oi-ganisation. At present the aeroplane is
showing itself to be the most effective weapon
of war to be had at the price. It ought to be
essentially our weapon, because the oi-ganisa-
tion of an aircraft service lends itself to fill-
ing the needs of a country of scattered popu-
lation and wide spaces, and because it multi-
plies the strength of the few when opposed
to the many. Certainly, there is a chance of
the aeroplane being superseded by some other
and entirely different invention; but the
peculiar position of Australia makes it at
least likely that for a very long time to
come aerial defence is the defence with which
we will be able to make the best show with
our numbers.
+. .
Defective Recruits.
“M.G.”: Is it fair to Australia that recruits
should be accepted with such serious physical
and mental defects that they are able to
evade the trenches whenever they care to
strip for the medical-officer? Some of these
trippers get to Capetown, some to England,
more to the base in France, and an odd one
now and then to the lines. Of a small
batch of less than 200 that left a N. S.
Wales country town with the writer, one
with a toe growing skyward, as the result
of a burning accident, was sent back on arri-
val at Suez, and two were detained in France
with respectively a withered leg and a club
foot. Another on arrival at Tel-el-Kebir was
found to be rheumatic and was hospitalled
and returned —for the second time without
fighting! This beauty told us at Colombo
that he was going back when he. got to
Egypt. Another faced the music until Fritz
got unpleasant in his neighborhood, and next
day he put a toeless left foot (railway acci-
dent) before the harassed medico. On arri-
val in England he was clinked, but as he
simply declined to tackle any other toil he
was shipped home. Generosity and negli-
gence on the part of examining medicoes have
wasted thousands of pounds and caused end-
less trouble on the other side. Going on the
ricketty appearance of some recruits this
game is still being played. It should be
stopped at once.
Clowning to Victory—or Defeat.
The attention of Sydney City Council has
been called to the deplorable fact that re-
cruiting is now carried on by means of
buffoonery. On one occasion crowds were
collected by a troupe of patriotic workers
who dressed as clowns and acted the part,
while on another the centre of popular attrac-
tion was a bogus fight between waggon-
drivers and motor-men; and the Lord
Meagher doesn’t think thes“ things suffi-
ciently dignified when it comes to raising
armies in the cause of Empire. The Lora
Meagher is right; yet what else is to be.
expected? The whole business of citizen war-
service was left from the first to chance, and
an element of buffoonery entered into almost
every phase of the call to arms. The girls with,
their white feathers, the fat citizens waving,
paper flags, the sale of win-the-war buttons,
the vagaries of the censorship, the loud
air-wallopings of W. M. Hughes, the route-
marches of recruits from the centres —what,
were all these but clowning and play-acting ?
A nation that had taken the war seriously
would have gone to work in a very different
fashion. The men who could render best
service at the Front would have been sent to
the Front; the men who were needed at home
would have remained at home. The neces-
sary money for all purposes would have been
raised in a systematic manner. Not even
the comforts of the men in the firing-line
would have been left to chance alms-giving.
We chose, however, to work in a different
way. We deliberately decided to rely on
the appeal to the individual; and that inevit-
ably involves theatricalism and cheap-
jackery. Why complain, then? Or, at any
rate, why complain if we are not prepared to
follow up our complaint with a struggle to
get the better plan adopted?
♦
“Exile” from the U.S.A.: —•
I see that Dr. Leeper, of Trinity College, Mel-
bourne, lately advised the Victorian Council of Edu-
cation to petition some Government department or
other to qualify a number of young men for posi-
tions in the British consular service. There goes
Dr. Leeper again! Always agitating to do some-
thing for the benefit of people out in Europe. Why
not train young Australians for Australia’s shortly -
to-be-formed consular service? Because if we don’t
have such foreign representation soon we are going
to lose a lot of trade, especially around the Pacific
Ocean—lose it to foreigners who have consulates
everywhere, backed by private organisations. The trade
between Australasia and U.S.A. has grown five times
in five years, mainly owing to the active work of
the U.S.A. Bureau of Commerce. This concern is
manned by young business men chosen because they
speak French, German or Spanish, and know their
own country thoroughly and what it makes and
wants to sell. United States efficiency is nothing
more than the effect of teaching young students to
be business men first and pundits next. Why
should we Australians always rely on the British
consular service and agents abroad to represent us?
Why cannot we send our own sensibly-trained repre-
sentatives to gather trade and orders for domestic
merchants and traders? Why is the ugly fetich
not torn down and burnt that we Australians are
inferior to the other people who compose the
British Empire ? Dr. Leeper says his scheme would
strengthen the Imperial idea, bind us more closely,
etcetera, to the mother country, and so forth. Sup-
pose we get away from the sentimental palaver and
alter our teaching methods so that the young Aus-
tralian will be trained to believe that in reality his
and her country is the best of them all.
«
“Ivan P.”: Recruiting-officers should paste
iu their hats those Bulletin pars, which
show that Australians are fighting for Aus-
tralia. To urge enlistment for the sake of
Engl aml or “the Empire” is simply to supply
a' solid basis for the anti-conscriptionist
howl that “Australia has done enough.” She
would have done so if that were what she is
fighting for. Even shrieks for recruits to
redress the wrongs of Belgium, Servia and
France will appeal only to a sense of
chivalry; and theoretically admirable as
knight-errantry may be, only a small min-
ority feel called upon to ride abroad to pro-
tect the weak at the other side of the globe.
Self-interest, after all, is the strongest human
motive; and those who want to. attract Aus-
tralian recruits should put their lofty prin-
ciples in cold storage and go bald-headed on
the cry—as true as all the Gospels put
together—that Australian troops in this war
are fighting for Australia. It ought to be
plain enough by this time to any man who
stops to think what would happen to this
continent if the German came out of the
present disturbance on top ; but the frenzied
froth about “fighting for King and Empire”
is keeping a lot of good Australians from
realising that they are urgently needed to
fight for Australia. Take Les Darcy as an
example. Whatever his faults may have
been, no one ever charged Darcy with being
a bad Australian till he scuttled to the
U.S.A. to dodge Conscription. Coming of a
stock to which England is merely the ancient
oppressor and Home Rule for Ireland a
religion, it was not unnatural that he jibbed
at sacrificing a money-making career to risk
his life for a “King and Empire” which
meant less than -nothing to him and his
friends. If the call had been properly put to
him as a duty to defend Australia —his own
country—Darcy might be alive in Aus-
tralian khaki to-day ; or if death had come
to him he would have died as an Australian
patriot instead of as a renegade to Australia,
viewed sideways even in the country to
which he fled. And Darcy isn’t the only one.
It looks as though the too-frequent orator
about “King and Empire” will have to be
muzzled yet under the War Precautions Act
as prejudicial to recruiting.
A committee of business men is to advise
on the commercial side of the Defence
Department. But probably the commercial
side has been no more mismanaged than
any other. And while on the business side
the lax and incompetent administration has
cost us money, lax and incompetent admin-
istration elsewhere has cost us something
more important even than money. For
month after month there was no Dental
Corps. Who was responsible for that? At
least one chiropodist, with high credentials,
offered his sex-vices gratis at Liverpool.
There was no room for a chiropodist.
Months afterwai’ds chiropodists were em-
ployed. Who was responsible for that
delay? In 1914-15 the sanitary inspectors of
N. S. Wales, who are required to have cer-
tain qualifications, suggested that experi-
enced men should be chosen as warrant-offi-
cers to work in the camps, etc. The Depart-
ment pooh-poohed the idea. Months later,
after a vast amount of damage had been
done, a sanitary section was formed. Who
was responsible for that delay? Nobody,
apparently. At any rate, the one man who
was responsible to the people, the Minister
for Defence, is still Minister for Defence,
and still muddling through somehow.
Nationalism.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Negotiations to form a National Government in
South Aus. have failed. Mr. Peake said that the
Vaughan party wanted three portfolios out of six
and the Premiership. The Liberals could not agree
to that.”
Perish myself so that the Nation live!
Let my poor name to the abyss go down,
If but the future to Australia give
Glory and honor and a fair renown!
God ! let but Australia live to be
The white-souled Justicer of her wide sea.
Let my poor body be the food of kites.
Let my poor name be but a thing of
naught,
Let this poor hand that this poor line indites
Wither and crumple for the dingo’s sport!
Let but the Nation be —proud, glad, benign!
Let her worst be the best of me and mine!
God ! For that filthy foe who threatenest
Freedom that, once without, Australia dies,
Let but the asp and viper bite his breast!
Let him go down to Dis, as go all lies;
Let his best foes give all their love and blood
If but Australia tramples o’er the flood!
Such is my noble work as Nationalist.
Such are my dreams and my highborn
desires!
Shall I not die for Motherland that kist
Me consecrate unto her altar fires?
But for one thing I’d dare the tide of Styx!
But. dammit —three portfolios out of six!
Not on your life!
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


The Possibilities of Co-operation
are immense. In every country in the world there are striking examples of what can be attained when men with common interests join forces and
conduct their affairs without the assistance of middlemen. The advantages of co-operation are nowhere better demonstrated than in farmers’ co-opera-
tive companies. In New Zealand co-operation is retaining for the primary producer hundreds of thousands of pounds annually. Equally successful
results can be obtained by
CO-OPERATIVE INSURANCE -co-operating farmers undertaking their own insurance business,
and securing absolute protection at cost price.
T!l c Farmers’ U Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A u ! r ?!i a
was formed in the interests of tHe Australian farmers.
Write the Manager for full particulars.
Have you placed your WorKme
Compensation Insurance yet?
The F. & S. Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia is THE company for the
farmer.
Do not delay—the Act operates as from July 1.
HEAD OFFICE*. 14 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
War Possibilities.
According to Northcliffe, “the war is
only just beginning”; and taking the thing
as it stands to-day on the several Fronts,
what evidence is there that Northcliffe is
wrong V In south-eastern Europe proceed-
ings are more or less suspended in one direc-
tion, and about what is happening in another
the best to be said is that the allied army is
in a less dangerous position than it was. In
the eastern division nothing can be detected
except an additional accumulation of chaos.
If the Bear arrives back before the snow, it
will he through something like a miracle. On
the Western Front the French are heavily
assailed, and, though the British are still
struggling to get the enemy by the throat,
both of the Allies will feel better when
American troops get into the fray.
That on the Western Front the German is
stronger _ to-day than his opponents ex-
pected him to be is unquestionable. And that
the difficulties of the offensive against him
have been increased by the spell given him on
the east can be regarded as certain. What the
exact meaning of the recent fighting along
the Somme area and at Ypres may be is
shrouded in mystery. But there is no doubt
about this—that the enemy is still fighting
stoutly, and when beaten at some particular
point to-day hops astern to a new address,
where the whole business has to start again
as soon as the necessary hardware can be
dragged up. It is no longer any use pretending
that this is not a very serious affair we are
mixed up in or that there is any “must” about
our winning. We can only win by beating the
enemy. If we fail to do that, he wins; and
what will happen then the advocates of vol-
untaryism had better try to figure out. It
may help them if, for a start, they turn to a
recent inspired article in the German press
which affirmed that “peace without annexa-
tion and indemnity would be a German catas-
trophe.” That shows quite clearly what a
German victory would be followed by.
N.S.W. Labor-leader Storey, at the P.L.L.
Conference: —
He objected to the Labor movement being called
an Australian movement only. Australia, with its
large area, had a population of only 4£ millions.
A lady delegate: That is not our fault. (Laughter.)
Mr. Storey: It is the fault of some of us.
It is. And “some of us’’ include the party
Storey belongs to, which, while insisting on
high wages and short hours, has refused to
make a fight for the High Protection which
alone could make high wages and short
hours possible. So Australia has only 4£
million people; and most of them are merely
shifting mullock of one sort or another, or
loafing on loans.
Thus Treasurer Bigjohn the other day:—
It is not possible nor is it expedient to deal with
the estimated revenue and expenditure of the coming
year or to indicate the measures necessary in order
to provide the immense sum
Perhaps it isn’t —until the coming year,
has actually arrived on July 1. But
it is both possible and expedient for the
Federal Parliament to get down to business
immediately afterwards. The old habit of
passing revenue-producing measures and
stalling off consideration of details relating to
income and expenditure until near the end
of the financial year is neither sane nor
honest. This habit reduces Parliament to
the position of a mere automaton. It makes
criticism more or less impossible and wholly
futile. Not one penny of public money
should be spent until after Parliamentary
sanction has been given to the expenditure.
There were a few frowsy party reasons in
the past for dodging this good rule. With
a “National” Government in power no honest
men will even attempt to dodge it.
The citizens of Bendigo (Yic.) don’t fully
realise yet that their member now is the
Prime Minister of Australia, busily engaged
in winning a war. The other day they lis-
tened to a beautiful peroration on this and
cognate matters, and then, after handing out
liberal applause, got down to business. The
local bakers asked for relief of some sort
from the alleged losses they were making in
having to sell bread at the fixed price; and
a jam company wanted a rebate of 7s. a
case on tin plates used in supplying jam to
the British authorities. Hughes couldn’t
produce any enthusiasm, and part at least
of Bendigo went away with a suspicion that
it had made an error in swapping a “good
local member” for a great statesman.
When Webb, M.P. for Greymouth (M.L.),
was being tried lately for making an allegedly
seditious utterance, Eindlay, K.C., who
appeared for the defence, argued that the
construction which the Bench was asked by
the prosecution to put upon the law was
wrong. Findlay did not succeed, and Webb
was handed three months. Whereupon At-
torney-General Herdman got himself inter-
viewed by a newspaper and gibed at Findlay
for making a defence that was an “incite-
ment to agitators.” What Findlay had
particularly impressed upon the Court
was that it would be a gross scandal if the
War Precautions Act were used to limit
criticism of a Government’s administration.
This seems to have touched up Herd-
man ; wherefore in trying to speak to
the newspapers like a lawyer he only suc-
ceeded in talking like a politician frightened
of getting bowled out. In any case, the spec-
tacle of an Attorney-General attacking a
barrister for advancing in defence of a man
whose liberty was at stake a certain aspect
of law is one of great novelty. And one,
moreover, of almost incredible impropriety.
“Barcaldine”: Some London dailies run
an occasional column of “Anzac Notes.”
For the most part the news is crudely culled,
but now and then we find an interesting item
like this, from the Daily Mail, of March
27: —
There has been a most drastic “comb-out” at the
headquarters of the A.I.F. in Horseferry-road, where
over 80 per cent, of the staff have been declared fit
for active service. It is expected that the “comb-
out” will yield altogether somewhere about a bat-
talion of men.
That means 1000 or 1100. And the A.I.F.
Headquarters office at Horseferry-road is by
no means the only “funk-hole” in Blighty,
though it is the most audaciously colossal.
Many of the swanking young Ilorseferrymen
have never been near the firing-line, in
Gallipoli, Egypt or France. Yet dozens of
old and proved Australian soldiers —some of
them with upwards of two years’ service
abroad —have not been able to snatch even
the fugitive official 10 days’ furlough to
England. Evidently somebody has got on to
this twin scandal at last. Somebody is
shockingly to blame that it wasn’t got on to
long ago.
“Glen H.”: When Hughes was busy win-
ning the war in Bendigo his favorite method
of answering any arguments brought against
him was to allege that the person bringing
them was connected with the I.W.W. A
specific charge of the kind against Hickey,
organiser of the Railway Workers’ Union,
Hughes has now had to withdraw, by stating
publicly that evidence had been brought
under his notice which was “totally incom-
patible with the suggestion that Mr. Hickey
was, or ever had been, associated with the
1.W.W.” This tardy admission, forced from
the reckless spouter after the last votes had
been counted and the last election lie had
done its dirty work, was published by the
Akgus under the heading (this is the point
at which you smile or howl, according to
taste) “An Amende Honorable”!
C. C. Belcher. Adelaide’s chronic litigant,
speeded the going of the High Court, just as
he had welcomed its arrival. But this time
the Judges knew Belcher and did not waste
time. Barton was (almost) as courteous as
ever, but Isaacs was frank. Exit Belcher,
to be succeeded by another amateur. This
one had been condemned (unjustly, he said)
by a small court to a fine or a month’s impris-
onment, and he wanted jfistice. The Bench
naturally asked what he had been doing
meanwhile, and when he said he had “taken
out” the month it lost interest in him. The
High Court, said Barton, exists to do things,
not to “fire in the air.” So the man who, like
the Silver King, wanted the universe put
back, went away sorrowful. But at any rate
nobody can say that it is difficult or costly
for even the smallest litigant to approach
and get a hearing from Australia’s biggest
legal intellects.
“Crummle”: Glittering like a suburban
mayoress at the annual municipal ball, the
gilded wooden mace which the Labor Admin-
istration relegated to the lumber-room is back
in the House of Reps. It is the one used
on and off by Vic. Speakers before
Federation, and was provided in compliance
with a resolution passed in 1857. In 1866
it was superseded by one costing £800; but
when in 1891 the expensive bauble, which was
of gilded silver, was stolen, the wooden stick
came into use again. When the Federal Par-
liament took over the Vic. Parliament House,
it acquired the wooden knobkerrie on loan,
and at the solicitation of the late F. C.
Mason, a Speaker who was a stickler for
ancient form, the first Peacock Government
spent £3OO on the silver-gilt waddy now in
use in the State’s Assembly—a replica of
the gaud that so mysteriously disappeared.
It’s never too late to learn. Still, if the
prosecution is to be believed, a clumsy vet-
eran of 76, who was last week committed
for trial in Sydney on a charge of jemmying
his way into two shops and getting off
with underclothes and cigars, does seem to
have postponed it a bit long.
“The younger German soldiers seemed
humane, but the older ones baaed like a
sheep when they saw the Australians eating
grass and dandelions.” said the two Westra-
lians who escaped from the Hun lines be-
hind Bullecourt. The story is a reminder
of how the French revolutionists treated the
cynical member of the Old Noblesse who had
bidden the starving peasants go and eat
grass. Thev filled his mouth with pasturage
after he was guillotined.
The “Year Book of Australia” for 1917.
just published, maintains its reputation as a
handy, comprehensive, well-compiled and
reliable reference volume about nearly every-
thing that matters in the Commonwealth. It
is only 36 years old; but even Methuselah
d’dn’t know half as much.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING. WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s “Canary Cottage'’
Criterion “Good Gracious, Annabelie”
Palace “Look Who’s Here”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pink Lady”
Royal “Grumpy’’
King’s : “Peg o’ My Heart”
Princess’s “The Story of the Rosary”
Tivoli .... “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” and Vaudeville
Auditorium The Cherniavskys
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olymuia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
The Gonsalez Co. is back in the Sydney
Opera Mouse and flying through a four
weeks’ season. Opening with “II Trovatore”
—the standing dish of every hurried Italian
aviary since Maurico first warbled his love
to Leonora in 1853 —the dark-eyed songbirds
changed their plumage for “Ernani” on Mon-
day afternoon. Kilts and tartans saw Lucia
di Lammennoor through her troubles on the
holiday night. In Trovatore the marked im-
provement of the male chorus —due to
mouths of work as a going concern—has
softened the bad habit of missing the con-
ductor’s beat. For the rest the melodious
old opera rested on the lyric excellence of
tenor Cappelli, the vim of baritone Scamuzzi
and the rolling bass of Cacialli. Mrs. de
Revers shook the welkin with Leonora’s
frenzied top notes as of yore; and Miss Russ
flashed her black eyes under the tousled grey
locks of the gipsy Azucena. The Gonsalez
co. is as good as ever in its fat streaks, and
no worse in its lean vocal support.
The clever but rather quiet comedy,
“Penelope,” brilliantly presented by Marie
Tempest and Graham Browne at Sydney
Criterion, can be seen for only two more
nights. On Saturday something that is stated
to be very droll, and entitled, “Good
Gracious. Annabelie,” will be submitted by
these artists.
To-morrow the Tait company will make its
last “Turn to the Right” at Sydney Palace.
On Saturday Sydney James and Jack Waller
will ask all Sydney to “Look Who’s Here,”
an entertainment which is alleged to be new,
fresh, crisp and speedy. Doubtless Sydney
James would also have remarked that his
show is “full of pep”; but that sign is
already displayed on “Canary Cottage.”
The heavy rain that washed Sydney out of
the beginning of this week found no holes in
the roof of “Canary Cottage,” and Alfred
Dipso Frith wandered dryly across Her
Majesty’s stage with his faithful d.t.’s gam-
bolling round him while the stuff men mix
with whisky roared on the slates overhead.
There are other people at Sydney Tivoli
besides Ada Reeve, but the quiet singer dims
them all. While stringing one song after the
other, she artfully manages to present each
one as if it were the star item. But the
English comedy wherein a tearful futuristic
man speaks the lines of the usual neglected
stage female, while his heartless wife goes off
to her club leaving him to be abducted by a
vivid villainess, is poor stuff, and should be
scrapped. Nikola continues to interest with
his silhouette hand-portraits, and dancer
Lucie Linda is as much like thistledown as
ever.
The Fox Film people made an entertain-
ing sermon when they built the convict-
striped 10-reeler, “The Honor System,” now
showing under J.C.W. management at Syd-
ney Royal. The weak point is that the dear
old State Governor in the wideawake hat who
cleans up the pigsty prison is about 90 years
behind our Australian times. Regarded
simply as an entertainment, however. “The
Honor System” is vivid and interesting to
the disappointing end, when the handsome
convict-hero (Milton Sills) dies with his free
pardon in his hand and leaves pretty Miriam
Cooper grieving distractedly. The work of
both speechless stars is good throughout.
. $ sjc s):
The Shakspearian actor Allan Wilkie was
found wandering about the stage of the Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday in a state of
demented heroism due to indulgence in
Walter Howard. In the course of a dis-
jointed address the poor fellow declared that
he was an ex-officer of the Red Dragoons of
Strelsau, who had been sent to rescue a
beautiful princess named Venetia and an
escaped archangel known as Paul Romain
from the junior partner of Mephistopheles
and Co. Wilkie persisted in his hallucina-
tion for nearly three hours, and told a
strange story of a rosary presented to the
archangel by the Princess, subsequently try-
ing to give a weird verity to his fancy by
hiring an elderly pianist and several other
interrupters to massacre the melody of “The
Rosary” at unsuitab’e interval. The unfo“-
tunate actor also wore a khaki and red uni-
form suggestive of the Salv’army on a war-
footing, and once or twice attempted a
pathetic imitation of a helmet-hunting Anzac
in No Man's Land. It is understood that he
has now been detained for medical observa-
tion, while some other people who encour-
aged him in his delusion will probably be
"THE STORY OF THE ROSARY." AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Allan Wilkie as
Karl Laros e a sol-
dier and true friend.
Walter Hunt as the
nasty Captain
Romain.
arrested for imposition. A noticeable offender
was a young lady who gave the name of
Frediswyde Hunter-Watts and basely pre-
tended to be the Princess aforesaid, achiev-
ing in the end a masterpiece of fraud that
went to the length of heaving deep sighs
when the time of “The liosary” was vigor-
ously played. One Vivian Edwards, mas-
querading as the archangel, abetted the lady
in every way, bruiting about impossible sen-
timents fit only for gesticulation in a picture
play. Walter Hunt was the dealer in
wickedness, and made a bogus hate vocal in
a snarl that frequently threatened to break
his face in two. Robert Inman, as a colonel
of the Sanguinary Dragoon ; H. W. Varna,
drinking hard as Venetiahs old father; Henri
Dore, piffling gladly with Miss Elwyn
Harvey; Greenaway as a holy man; and
Landor as an aged absurdity named Winkle
were all compliant tools in the conspiracy to
make an eminent Shakspearian actor look
foolish. Scene-painter Grist was also an
accessory before the fact.
Good old “Grumpy” continues to do pretty
much as Cyril Maude chooses at Melbourne
Royal. He takes outrageous liberties with
the probabilities, even to the extent of ask-
ing for a little barley-water when he has
been nearly throttled, and pretending that he
regards that gentle beverage as a powerful
restorative. And when he gets neat brandy
instead of barley-water he just complains of
its alcoholic wickedness and takes another
swig at the poison, like a wowser in a farci-
cal comedy. Cyril Maude’s habit of intro-
ducing comic relief into the business at un-
likely moments seems to belie the assertion
that Grumpy was one of the cleverest crimi-
nal lawyers of his day. It suggests that he
would at any time have sacrificed a client
rather than lose his little joke. But in his
character of Grandad his jocularity is re-
freshingly original. He is the first stage
ancient—asthmatically ancient—to be per-
sistently funny (with two or three brief
lapses into pathos) instead of bourgeoisl.v
dismal. Other venerable antiques of the
stage have cultivated only one sort of wheeze
—the physical sort. Grumpy cultivates both
sorts. He is equally amusing and real in his
frivolling; and when ne talks to Susan,
with his back half-turned to the girl and his
eyes fixed on the other man in the room, he
is the shrewd cross-examiner to the life.
Susan and Virginia continue to be two of
the nicest girls in the world in their respec-
tive ways, and the person who is said to be
wanted by the police continues to live in con-
spicuous luxury, as though the police had no
possible means of satisfying their want until
Grumpy came to give them the clue.
“Peg o’ My Heart” returns to Melbourne
King’s on Saturday for an indefinitely brief
season. Millions of shells have exploded on
the Fronts since Peg went away, and her
return is not uncalled for. The Musical
Comedy Co. was to finish its season on
Wednesday with a revival of Eddie the Good,
the innings of “The White Chrysanthemum”
having been declared closed four days earlier.
“The Pink Lady,” which provides a local
habitation and a name, as it were, for sundry
strains of long-familiar dance-music, is pros-
pering as before at Melbourne Majesty’s.
When its popularity begins to show signs' of


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
auce
“Better
than Ei'ther”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia—
GET A BOTTLE.
For the Rider
A shady hat that is soft and pliant, yet
sufficiently stiff in the brim to prevent it
blowing back over the eyes. A hat that
will stand rough usage and exposure
under sun and rain—a reliable, resilient
rider’s-felt that has been specially de-
signed for service.
We Pay Postage. Please state size.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 8 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Mid Grey or Pawn—3 34 -inch
brim 15/6
Ask for “The Adapta.
wear and tear the management will perhaps
introduce a little foreign music for Florence
Young, who is too rarely heard in the tourna-
ment of song. If Dondidier didn’t salute
her on the cheek she would not be heard at
all, so the thanks of the congregation are
due to that audacious dealer in antiques for
his attempt to melt the ice. Gladys Mon-
crieff still warbles her high opinion of Love
in a pure soprano, and the busy Phil Smith
improves the shining hours with undimin-
ished fury. Also Minnie Love looks sweet in
pink, and the lightest-clad ladies of the co.
betray no anxiety as to catching cold.
The second act of “Sweet Nell,” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli on Saturday, further estab-
lished Nell Stewart in popular favor. Nellie
had visited the Court dressmaker since the
previous evening, and had been turned into a
pink decoration for the beguilement of her
Royal boy in his many off-hours. Miss
Stewart is as vivacious as ever; Charles
(Blakiston) maintains, on the other hand,
his attitude of languid melancholy. Also
Leslie Woods continues to wear Roger Fair-
fax’s appointments with obvious embarrass-
ment. Nell’s affection for this unsugary
young gallant is only explainable on the
supposition that she had a partiality for
lemons as well as oranges. Nell Stewart is
easily the public fancy at the Tivoli these
nights; Gwen Lewis, Billie Seaton and
Daisy and Sydney Yates struggle far in the
rear for the audience’s second preference
vote.
The three Clierniavskys gave three con-
certs at Melbourne Auditorium last week, and
are following on with another three this
week. To-night (Thursday) and Saturday
will be further opportunities for those gifted
brethren to be charmingly entertaining with-
out necessarily going to Germany for their
goods. As soloists or in trio the Cherni-
avskys are a delight to all sorts of admirers
of their art. They deal mostly in the high-
class things that everybody can understand.
They are always soulful yet never doleful;
conscientious but not conservative; interest-
ing without being too exacting. Moreover
they put on no airs which are not duly
stated on the programme or added by way
of encore.
* * 5jC *
Enid Bennett, in “The Little Brother,” and
William Desmond, in “The Last of the In-
grams,” have been granted the freedom of
the screen for one week at the Britannia,
Melbourne. At the Melba E. K. Lincoln and
Theda Bara are recent stars. Theda pub-
lished her seven kinds of midnight smile in
“The Vixen,” and caused a marked advance
in vampire stocks.
Frances Nelson, one of the prize mimes of
the Metro collection, is pictured in “The
Power of Decision,” at Hoyt’s, Melbourne,
this week. Frances appears as the wife of a
worthless husband, and heartily wreaks her
misery on the audience for five acts. Edith
Hallor provides the necessary feminine
allurements in “A Man and a Woman.” The
bones of this plot were stolen from Zola, but
the embezzlers have concealed their crime
under several loads of Amurkan scenery.
"THE STORY OF THE ROSARY." AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Arthur Greenaway
as Father Theodore.
Henri Dore as
Peterkin.
“Intolerance” has filled a solid fortnight
at Adelaide Royal, where “Fair and
Warmer” is just starting. The King’s
reopens for a return season of the jolly
“Waybacks,” and the Tivoli revives the
old Hansom Cab mystery, with its always
effective Melbourne setting. At the Majestic
the two comedians who are getting to prefer
the names of “Stiffy” and “Mo” to their
rightful ones of Phillips and Rene have an
absurdity which calls itself a joyous jam-
boree of jollity. It is very much like every-
thing else of the same kind, but it passes a
pleasant hour.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Johanna” calls on Cyril Maude:
Off stage he is absurdly young. So when he
tells you that he came to Australia “30 years ago
—as a boy,” the last remark doesn’t seem so far-
fetched. The voyage was for his health ; it was on a
sailing ship—Bs days out and 120 days home. Mel-
bourne struck him as being busier theh than it is
now. Probably because it was then working up for the
Boom and he was a boy fresh from sea. He stayed
down amongst the shipping on that far-back visit,
and intends wandering through the busy acres of docks
and wharves that now help the narrow old Yarra to
carry its burden of trade. After that, as the trip
did not altogether mend his health, he went to
Canada to work on a farm.
Daughter Margery is playing now in West
America. Father wanted to bring her here as his
leading lady, but she was too expensive and wouldn’t
come out as a bargain even for dad. Also, dad may
play “The Grand Lover,” and he felt he couldn’t
make stage love to his own daughter. It was
Margery who first sent along Dorothy Cumming for
inspection. F.lder daughter Pamela is the widow
of Congreve, V.C. —a descendant of the naughty
Congreve who wrote the comedies. Queen Mary
stood godmother to Mary Gloria Congreve—the
daughter born after her gallant father’s death.
Pamela was only six weeks a wife. Besides his two
daughters Maude has a boy of 14. They are a
good-looking family, according to their photographs.
What galleries he gets here—clean people with
intelligence! “You never get galleries like that
anywhere else.” “Why ?” I asked. “Goodness
knows!” piously replied the star, and added:
■“There are kangaroos in Australia and nowhere
else in the world. Who can fathom these strange
ways of Nature?”
But he wonders at the absence of matinee frenzy.
He got what local managers would call a good
matinee audience; but there were spare seats here
and there. In London and all over America they
matinee with terrific enthusiasm.
He has been once a year to America for a long
while now, and has grown to like the steam-heating
system; he thinks a real plumber would make his
fortune in wintry Melbourne. He had to coax and
argue with Mrs. Maude for months before she would
agree to have the innovation in their London home.
Now —well, she has been fonder of him ever since.
His health is still a worry. Last Thursday a
Melbourne doctor inoculated him against colds; he
is subject to a peculiarly severe one over the eyes.
And a very stiff right arm has just enough bend in
it to shoulder a gun. That’s some consolation: he is
fond of shooting' and some hospitable Australians
were taking him out quail-hunting next day.
“T. 0.1.”: Hugo Alpen, one of the oldest
identities in the musical life of Sydney, died
last week aged 75. He first waved his hair
in Sydney at the Garden Palace Exhibition,
where he gave pianoforte recitals, and his
first Sydney composition was a cantata for
the opening of the Glebe Town Hall. In
1910, after over half a century’s uninterrupted
work, mainly as teacher and director of
music in State schools, the old man revisited
his birthplace, near Hamburg, where he was
serenaded by the Liedertafel which his father
had conducted in the ’3o’s.
“Stargazer”: Considered as a work of art,
“Grumpy” is over-emphasised, and over-
loaded, and too profuse. But the individual
performance is wonderfully clever —too con-
spicuously clever. It is the whole show, and
other features, even when quite excellent in
themselves, are practically wiped out. The
story, too, is robbed of significance. What
the bad young man did does not matter:
what was done to the good young man is of
no earthly consequence; and the fate of the
nice heroine is a subject of no concern what-
ever. Only Grumpy and what Grumpy is say-
ing and doing for the moment has any
lasting reality to the people in the theatre.
Grumpy himself would be a better picture, a
more satisfactory memory, if he were not so
prodigally bestowed. “Too Much Grumpy”
should be the title of the comedy. To lavish
Grumpy upon the audience he is forced into
many repetitions, and compelled to dwell too
long on his jest here and there. He would
be a finer, clearer, bolder, freer etching on
the line in the gallery of dramatic memories
if Maude had not permitted the part to over-
grow the character.
“Harrison O.” : I would like to have seen
Cyril Maude in “Grumpy” before he had
played the part 120,398 times, or whatever
the number is. The picture he presents at
Melbourne Royal suffers from over-elabora-
tion; the canvas is too crowded. In the
three years in which he has been acting this
character, Maude has discovered 7941
methods—most of them legitimate enough in
their way—of raising a larf. Grumpy can’t
even dip "his spoon into the sugar-basin with-
out sending the sugar flying over his valet.
Maude has given Grumpy the tricks not of
one ancient, but of a dozen, all different; so
it is rarely his characterisation is not tinged
with caricature.
The sort of question the picture showman
asks Holy Adelaide :
WHAT
WOULD YOU DO
if you were handcuffed in a lonely mountain cabin
to the woman you loved, night creeping on, and a
compromising situation likely?
Well, a perfect gentleman might cough.
“Jwosp” : Charlie Berkeley, of Maoriland.
who dates back to the stranding of the first
dramatic ark and the subsequent wanderings
of the co. per boot, is talking of retiring. He
confesses to a yearage of about 60. But
that doesn’t prevent him being at least 35.
Berkeley celebrated his approaching ease in
Dunedin (M.L.) with the film show “Intoler-
ance.” In the Scotch capital he whispered
to a minister whom he knew that he re-
gretted having to show such a picture, but
that he had to do it or lose his job, and
what a Christian kindness it would be to get
the thing stopped. Next Sunday four pulpits
thundered, the newspapers roared in columns
and the theatre bulged with the righteous.
On the opening night Berkeley groaned with
his holy friend about the deplorable taste of
the public.
“303”: Some. Sydney flappers did a
“pyjama ballet” recently in a North Shore
hall! Hundreds of disappointed people were
turned away and the affair was a brilliant
success, over 1000 tickets being sold. You
see, though there is much scarcer clothing
at the Tiv., you don’t see the young lady
over the way as she is before turning out
the gas. A day or two before the exposure
two Anzacs gave a good show in the same
hall; result, 120 sad spectators and no
recruits. It is now suggested that the local
recruiting committee ask for the “pyjama”
dance. We’ve got to win the war somehow.
“Jwosp” : George Moore, with the help of
John Lloyd Balderston, a Yank war-corres-
pondent, is going to stage “The Brook
Iverith.” The play will differ from the book,
but the Christus will remain the chief charac-
ter, and the motif will again be his efforts to
stop the story of the Resurrection by prov-
ing to Paul that he did not die, but merely
swooned.
“Viator”: In front of me is the photo of
a ladies’ orchestra now playing in Hono-
lulu ; and talk about blood-mixtures, well —
Mary Saunders, Hawaiian; Violet Rue-
castle, English-Hawaiian; Amelia Bruna,
Porto Rico-Negro ; Alice Bradley, Hawaiian-
Italian; Ida Bush, Porto luco: Hannah
Holiohu, Hawaiian-Chinese; Annie Wong,
Chinese; Elizabeth Santiago, Porto Rico;
Mabel M.vdell. Norwegian-Hawaiian ; Angel-
etta Quinn. Porto Rico; Henrietta Ortez,
Portuguese-Porto Rico ; Charlotte de la Lux,
Hawaiian-French; Miss Sabine (conduc-
tor), Canadian; Ellamina Marteino. Porto
Rico; Lola Roderiques, Portuguese-Norwe-
gian; Pollyanna ivioro, Spanish ; Ray Payne,
Canadian ; Myrtle Brown, French-Canadian ;
Maggie Mardoniado, Spanish. gnat’s the
lot.
“0.1 v.” : The landlord of the hotel at Law-
son (N.S.W.) is Christie Simonsen, presum-
ably the long-time business manager for Bland
Holt. But he is not a son of the late Martin
and Fanny Simonsen (P>. 14/6/T7). One of
old Martin’s sons is a wholesale jeweller in
Melbourne, another is in America, three are
at the war. Slackers of a more desirable
fighting age may be interested to know that
the youngest of the three is about 35. By
the way, Christie S., of the Hotel Blue
Mountain, is not related to the family of
singers, though his connection with Bland
Holt always suggested that he must have
been born with a silvery tenor in his mouth.
As a matter of fact he did some race-riding
in his youth.
A baby gave the Russell-street (Melb.)
police office a busy hour on a recent winter
afternoon. The John Hops were ’phoned
by the Albert Club, which has its rooms
over a picture theatre, to the effect that it
had a stray infant on its hands. The
child had been found, blue with cold,
in its pram in front of the theatre,
where it had spent two freezing hours
while its female guardian was inside
gloating over “The Perils of Pater-
nity,” or some such drivel. The club took
the little stranger in and revived it with
hot milk. When its female appanage
emerged, she gave one startled look around,
and fled back to report the loss to the child’s
parents, visitors from Sydney, at their city
hotel. A frantic father got on to Russell-
street, and his message was followed by the
nurse, who quite failed to understand why
the father should be so irritated. “He abused
me something cruel,” she said. She took
delivery of the youngster, and, c&iefully
avoiding the movie shows en route , managed
to get it safely home.
“Bad Australian” (from Buenos Aires):
I saw the Passion Play last night at the
Avenida Theatre. As a spectacle .it
was wonderful, particularly the setting
of the Crucifixion and the Resurrec-
tion. The actin'?' of Senor Cordero
as Jesus and Senora Pestalardo as Mary
was of the finest order, and the last de-
spairing scene in the life of Judas about the
most realistic piece of stage-work I have ever
seen. In the semi-darkness, with the grand
strains of sacred music vibrating through, the
house. I felt that I was attending a religious
rite rather than a dramatic performance.
Not a sound broke the solemn silence except
the occasional sob of a woman or child.
Before seeing the play I was under the im-
pression that I would regard it as a more
or less irreverent exhibition. The actual
feeling was entirely and surprisingly
different.
“Floater”: Gregan McMahon and his com-
pany will probably be seen again at the Play-
house in two or three weeks—in a revival
of “The Pigeon.” Another little thing in the
shell is “The Dumb Wife,” written by the
naughty old sceptic Anatole France. This
dramatic curiosity has a Chaucerian atmo-
sphere which costumes designed by Hugh
McCrae will help to sustain.
“Glen Huntly” : Wherein lies the “uncon-
scious humor” discerned by “Fax” (B.
21/6/T7) in the opinion of the Melbourne
Age and Herald critics (and others not
quoted by “Fax”) that two musical numbers
in “The White Chrysanthemum”—“Three
Bad Boys” and “The House We’ve Come to
Search” —have much of Sullivan’s snap and
sprightliness? That the numbers quoted were
not the work of Howard Talbot (who is
accused by the programme pf being composer
of the opera) was not known to the critics
present on the opening night, although it has
since been announced on every theatrical
prattle-page; but the fact that these tunes
were selected as being of different quality to
the rest of the music at least shows that the
commentators had good ears for their jobs as
critics. “Fax” appears to imagine that by
just mentioning the now notorious fact that
the tunes were not by the English Howard
Talbot, but by Robert Keers (who has
chosen to be an Australian since he was
seven years old), he has shown the absurdity
of the claim that they resemble Sullivan’s
work. Also, it pains me to do it, but I must
correct “Fax” on another point. The words
of these songs were not by Barry Lupino,
but by actor Eardley Turner, who lately
celebrated the publication of his 100th
Bulletin rhyme.
“Snell” : Overheard two poor players on a
Melbourne street corner the other day, one a
performer on the portable piano, the other a
specialist in the pleasing art of thrusting
long needles through arms and legs. They
were discussing a pavement artist, and a
deplorably poor artist at that. Said one:
“Pore bloke, he’s come down in the world all
right! You’d never believe he once owned
performin’ dogs.”
“Futsac”: I grin when I hear the puff-
merchants saying that a movie-drama carries
more power than a stage-play. I have seen
a thousand so-called features, running from
five to ten reels, and few of them could come
up to the tattered version of “East Lynne”
or “The Silver King” you see in the cow-
country towns. None—not even “Intoler-
ance” or “Birth of a Nation” —could be com-
pared with “Within the Law” or “The Third
Degree” for dramatic thrill. A photoplay
never has been, and cannot ever be, more
than an illustrated story—well-illustrated, but
cold and irresponsive as a strumpet’s kiss.
There is never any need for a third act as it
is understood on the stage, because the pic-
ture story is obvious from the start, with no
attempt on the part of the writer to disguise
the intentions of the principals, or hold much
suspense. Of course, the absence of voice
and personality are tlie main reasons for the
apathetic state of the house when the pic-
torial climax is approaching; it’s hard to get
excited over dancing shadows. I know
enough about the business to be aware
that people don’t go to see a film because of
its story, but just to discover whether the
star’s hair is dark or fair this time. In the
matter of comedy, however, the pictures have
used up so many plots that stage writers,
trying to perpetrate something funny, don’t
know one situation that has not been
churned out in at least six films. Yesterday,
dialogue didn’t matter if the situation was
humorous. To-day, people are so tired of
being amused by phantoms that they are
yearning to hear something smart and clever.
That’s why the writer who is poor on dia-
logue adds a song and dance to his failures
and calls them revues.
“1.A.K.” : Our old friend Reid wasn’t the
original Yes-No. Call William Shakspeare:
Bo! i ng-broke: Are you contented to resign the
crown ?
Richard II.: Ay, No; No, Ay.
(Continued on page 34.)
SPLENDID—IN PARTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No navvy ever worked as hard
As Montmorency Todd,
When in the dramas of tie Bard
The stage he fiercely trod.
Perspiring at each pore, he made
His seem a badly-sweated trade.
One “first night,” to a critic came
Todd's business manager,
With bogus fervor to exclaim:
“Ah, there’s an actor, sir!”
The critic nodded. “Yes,’! said he,
“I think his pores act splendidly! ”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, in-
digestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.” For
the cause of all this distress lies in a torpid
liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs—-
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you are
drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely as
a robust man. It is a most harmless, effec-
tive stomach, liver and bowel regulator and
tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [6
TO DESTROY DANDRUFF
AND
MAKE THE HAIR GROW.
By an EMINENT SPECIALIST.
An eminent physician and specialist, who
has for years made a study of scalp and hair
troubles, states that practically all hair and
scalp trouble is primarily due to the dandruff
germ which eats«into the hair roots and
gradually destroys their vitality, making the
hair grow dry, grey and lifeless, until at last
it falls out and total baldness results. To
destroy the dandruff germ and restore the
glossy softness and natural color of youth,
he advises the regular application of a tonic
which can be put up by any chemist at a
small cost, consisting of 3 ounces of Bay
Rum, 1 ounce Lavona de Composee anil
J-dram Menthol Crystals; apply night and
morning, rubbing briskly into the scalp and
roots with the finger-tips. Do not wet the
hair more than is necessary. It won’t do
any harm ; but there is no need to waste the
tonic. The trouble —the dandruff germ—lies
in the roots, and cannot be cured by treating
the hair itself. The regular use of this tonic
once a day not only keeps the hair soft,
glossy and luxuriant, but is also a sure pre-
ventive of scalp and hair troubles.— Advt.
Society
MINCHINBUKY
“Elva V.” : The boys felt hurt when they
found out that a Y.M.C.A. man had brought
a revolver with him from Cairo to Itomani,
where he had £5O to guard. Billjiin said it
was not as if there were natives about the
place; he and his cobbers were the only
living beings for many miles around. One
•‘veiling, very soon after his arrival, the
Y.M.C.A. newchum placed his revolver and
money under the pillow and went to sleep.
In the morning his first thought was for the
"i<>ney, and his hand slid under the pillow.
The revolver was gone, but the money was
all there. That ambassador took the hint
and trusted Billjim thereafter.
* # * *
“Wyampa”: Billjim is the thinking
soldier. An officer and a number of men
were holding an isolated trench. No sup-
plies had reached them for three days, and
they were about starved when a parcel
of fiour arrived, without any trimmings
whatever. Now, Billjim doesn't relish a dam-
per of flour and water in the cold of France;
yet that’s what they were about to try
when some genius produced a bottle of fruit
salts and said “Bread!’’ Mixed with the
water the homely remedy made a splendid
batch.
RELIGIOUS DIFFERENCES.
THE PARSON ( gallantly ): “Miss Brown-
Jones, we don’t see nearly enough of you
at our social evenings.”
MISS BROWN-JONES ( sweetly ): “So nice of
you to say so. But — well, I’ve been
listening to some of the ladies on the
same subject, and I’m just scratches all
over.”
THE SURPASSING QUALITY OF THE HAT.
THE LITTLE LADY : “Don’t you like this Japanese hat? I do.”
THE ELONGATED GENT : “Well, no, I can’t see your face with it on.”
THE LITTLE LADY : “Yes, hut then I can’t see yours either.”
“L.T.”: A day or two ago I saw a very
lame pair, to all appearances husband and
wife, the latter wheeling a perambulator.
The woman had a badly misshapen hip, the
man a club-foot and possibly other non-
apparent defects; alongside trailed a poor
little specimen of man-child. With baby
clinics and universal fitness fresh in mind, 1
started to mourn for the race, and, in pass-
ing, sent a searching glance into the peram-
bulator. Thank Heaven! Instead of a
crooked baby it contained two bottles of
beer.
“1.P.” : Concern-
cerning the Colo-
nial Clergy Act
(8.7/6/T7), which
blocks Australian-
ordained parsons
from any ecclesi-
astical appoint-
ments in England.
The Anglican Gen-
eral Synod in Syd-
ney last year made
a belated pro-
test against the
Act (which has
been in force for
the best part of a
century) and asked Billy
Hughes, when he could spare
time from winning the war,
to request the British Gov-
ernment to repeal it. But
this doesn’t suit the snob-
bishness of those Anglican
clergy in this country who
happen to have been
ordained in England, and
they have been pulling wires
to keep things as they are.
While the London Guardian
demands its repeal, the local
denominational paper (the
Church Standard) lately
published an article arguing
that the Act is very neces-
sary to protect England
from mere “colonially”-
ordained parsons with little
education and “the manners
of the shearers’ hut.” Of
course, a willing scrap fol-
lowed in the correspondence column; but
not all the correspondents protested against
the foreign-trained clerics’ claim to superi-
ority. Some of them bawled stinking fish, and
quoted cases in which Australian bishops
had ordained men without either moral or
intellectual qualifications. Probably English
bishops are just as liable to make similar
bloomers —especially as most wearers of
Australian Anglican gaiters are imported.
Judging from some instances, instead of per-
petuating this libel on Australian parsons
there is need of a retaliatory measure com-
pelling English-ordained clergy to serve a
probation in this country before becoming
eligible for fat ecclesiastical jobs in Aus-
tralia.
When Billjim got to Bagdad :
At last, Bagdad ! On the trek up, hard going all
the time; up, at daylight, on the road all day, biv-
ouac, and on again next morning. But it was a great
life, and we fared all the better for starting with a
large consignment just received from the Australian
Comforts Fund.
Most of the way we followed the caravan route —
the road they took to Babylon—and camped each
night alongside the river. We had glorious weather
until the latter part of the trip; then a couple of
dust storms, great whirling devils, thicker than pea-
soup. One lasted all day and night.
The Turks beat a hurried retreat. All along the
track were little dumps of abandoned equipment—at
one place six guns, at another some howitzers run
into the river to prevent capture. Abdul and co.
made only one real stand, just across the river at Dir-
jalah, about 15 miles from Bagdad. Here they held
a strong position, and it took us three days and
nights to clear them out.
Entering Bagdad on the heels of the Turks, we
found the railway station burning and the wireless
station blown up, together with the famous bridge of
boats and all the Government buildings. The Turks
had ransacked the place for money and valuables, and
then cleared out after giving the Arabs the tip to
finish the looting. The Arabs didn’t miss a single
shop; in some cases they even took the doors off
the hinges. The non-Moslem population, mostly Chris-
tians (Armenians) and Jews, were nearly frantic with
joy when we arrived. They hadn’t been able to do
anything to stop the Arab looting, and were expect-
ing their houses to be invaded at any moment.
When war was declared the Turks commandeered
everything in the way of foodstuffs, etc., and paid
in paper money ; also they called upon males of
military age to enlist, exemptions being granted on
payment of £4O a year. On the backs of the
“money” they issued are engravings of the Darda-
nelles and Kut-el-Amara ; so you see they are “Vic-
tory notes. The writing is a promise to redeem
“after the war.”
We are in clover now, and settling down for the
summer. The ancient city was very disappointing
at first, but grows more interesting every day. The
shopkeepers are digging up old buried stores, and
the bazaars are starting to flourish again.
The Germans were erecting a high-powered wire-
less station, and had just about got it finished when
we came. Then they set to and smashed everything.
Two 400-feet towers had been erected. They
cut the guy ropes and let them fall. On the wall is
painted in foot letters, “GOTT STRAFE ENGLAND.
2 Tommies = 1 Asker.” And if they mean at any
job of destruction, I believe them. Their thorough-
ness as vandals almost commands our admiration.
BRICKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Ned, I now take up my pen to write you these
few lines,
And hopin’ how they find you fit. Gorbli’, it seems
an age
Since Jumbo ducked the Port, ’n’, drilled ’n’ polished
to the nines,
He walked his pork on Collins like a hero off the
stage,
Then hiked a rifle ’cross the sea this bleedin’ war to
wage.
The things what’s ’appened lately calls to Jumbo’s
mind that day
Our push took on the Peewees’ pack, ’n’ belted out
their lard,
With twenty cops to top it off. But now I’m stowed
away,
A bullet in me gizzard where I took it good and •
hard,
A-dealin’ stoush ’n’ mullock to the Prussian flamin’
Guard.
At Bullcoor mortal charnce had dumped a mutton-
truck of us
From good ole Port lcer-flummox where we didn’t
orter be.
All in a ’elpless hole —the Pug, ’n’ Sonny Haynes,
’n’ Gus,
Don, Steve, ’n’ Jack, ’n’ seven more, ’n’, as it
’appens, me,
With nothin’ in since breakfast, ’n’ a week to go for
tea.
Worked loose from Caddy’s bunch, we went it gay
until we found
We’d took to ’arf the ragin’ German Hempire on our
own.
Then down we went so ’umble, with our noses in the
ground,
Takin’ cover in the rubble. If a German head was
shown
It was fare-thee-well to Herman with a bullet through
the bone.
We slogged the cows remorseless, ’n’ they laid for
us a treat.
Wo held that stinkin’ cellar, though, ’n’ when the
day was done
Son pussied on his bingie where a Maxie trim ’n’
neat
Had spit out loaded lightnin’, and he slugged a
tubby Hun,
Then choked a Fritzie with his dukes, ’n’ pinched
the sooners’ gun !
We rigged her on her knuckle-bones. Cri’, how she
lapped ’em up!
We hosed ’em out with livin’ lead. That was the
second day.
Me left eye I’d ’ave give for jest a bubble in a cup,
Three fingers I’d ’ave parted for a bone I’ve flung
away;
But the butcher wasn’t callin’, ’n’ the fountain didn’t
play.
’Twas rotten mozzle, Neddo. We had blown out every
clip,
’N’ blooed the hammunition for the little box of
tricks.
Each took a batten in his fist. Sez Nosey: “Let ’er
rip !”
But Son he claws his stubble. Sez he: “Hold a
brace of ticks.”
Then “Yow!” he pipes ’n’ “Strewth !” he sez, “it’s
bricks, you blighters, bricks 1”
There’s more than arf a million spilt where some-
thin’ hit a pub;
We creeps among ’n’ sorts ’em, stack afore, ’n’ stack
behind ;
The Hun is cornin’ at us, with his napper like a tub —
You couldn’t ’ope to miss it, pickled, paralysed, ’n’
blind,
Sez Sonny: “Lay ’em open! Give ’em blotches on
the rind !”
Then bricks was flyin’ in the wind. Mine dinted
Otto’s chin ;
Ole Nosey got his brother, which he never more will
roam.
When Ulrich stopped a Port bookay he rolled his
alley in.
Their fire was somethin’ fierce. Poor Son was blow-
in’ blood ’n’ foam,
“Fill up,” he coughs, “ ’n’ plug ’em ! S'elp me Gord,
we’re goin’ ’ome!”
With bricks we drove right at ’em, ’n’ we wanged
’em best we could.
’Twas either bed ’n’ breakfast or a scribble and a
wreath.
Haynes bust a Prussian’s almond, took the bay’net
where he stood,
Then heaved his last ’arf-Brunswiek, split the
demon’s grinnin’ teeth,
And Son went down in glory, with a German under-
neath !
M e’d started out with gibbers in our clobber and our
’ats.
They gave us floatin’ lead enough to stop an army
cor.
We yelled like ’ell, ’n’ countered with a lovely flight
of bats,
Then rushed in close formation, heavin’ cottages, ’n’
tore
Through blinded, bleedin’ Bosches, ’n’, lor love veh,
it was war!
We came peltin’, headfirst, ’elpless, in a drain among
a lot
Of dirt}', damned old Tommies (Gord ! the best that
ever blew !)
Eight le.ft of us, all punctured, each man holdin’
what he’d got.
Me wild, a rat hole in me lung, but in me mauley,
too,
A bull-nosed brick with whiskers where no whiskers
ever grew.
There’s nothin’ doin’ now. 1 wear me blankets like
a toff.
The way this fat nurse pets me, strewth, it’s well to
be so sick,
A-dreamin’ of our contract ’n’ the way we pulled it
off.
I reckon Haig is phonin' Hughes: “Hello, there.
Billy. Quick —
A dozen of the pushes and a thousan’ tons of brick !”
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE. NURSE FRANCES, V.A.D., writes of Clements Tonic.
The proprietors of one of the leading weekly newspapers, Wellington, N.Z., whose letter can be seen if necessary, writes:
“ Nurse Frances has just returned from the firing-line in France and used your Clements Tonic there. I’m sure her
testimony is of very great public value.” Nurse Frances herself writes; “I should like to tell you how very
pleased I am with your Tonic as a nerve restorer. 1 have used it with very beneficial results. Several of our
nurses in France have also proved its worth. I can highly recommend it to any one suffering from brain-fag.”
(Signed) | (j/jf
uma ) f.d. i.
Get Clements Tonic and get good health at the same time. It is invaluable for Anaemia, Nerve Breakdown and Loss of Sleep.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere. It does good because it is gocd.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
“Loose Bag”: The new G.P.O. at Spen-
cer-street, Melbourne, which Webster,
P.M.G., was inclined to regard as a strong
point of some magnitude, has turned out to
be a dangerous salient, subject to all sorts of
counter-attacks by “Pro Bono Publico” and
other heavy artillery. The net result of its
establishment seems to be that mails close
earlier and arrive later. One epoch-marking
innovation was the instalment of a chute
which was to deliver mailbags with great ex-
pedition from the second floor to the waiting
vans in the courtyard below. It was a
Yank idea, built to Yank specifications,
apparently, the fact being overlooked that
the Australian mailbag is twice the size of
what a scientist would call its American
congener. Consequently jambs are frequent.
It then becomes necessary to lower down the
chute a man on the end of a rope, who kicks
the mailbags loose and speeds them on their
way. This is not a joke —it is the actual
departmental procedure in this year of grace
1917. Presumably there will soon be an
arbitration award for kickers.
“M.8.D.”: Mass this morning was to be
celebrated in a picturesque grotto in the
midst of a French wood by Father Gilbert,
who won the Military Cross for splendid
work during an awful action on another
front. While waiting we watched the ascent
of one of our observation balloons to its sta-
tion. Mass commenced and the sausage, with
its two officers, was forgotten, till the alarm
bell with which each is fitted began to ring.
At once the motor begaii to whir and the
winding-up drum commenced reeling in the
cable at a tremendous rate. I knew what was
happening, and what the next sound would
be —and the next. But I didn’t turn round,
much as I wanted to, because I knew that as
long as I stuck it unmoved the men would,
too. Presently came the peculiar boom of
the anti-aircraft guns. The Boche ’plane
had been sighted by the gunners and they
were working to save our helpless fat cater-
pillar from the hawk. But swiftly as the
drum was turning, it was no match for the
’plane, now nose-diving straight down above
the monstrous gas-bag. Then the dreaded
sound came—the vicious crackle of the
’plane’s machine-gun. The Padre turned to
me. “Is it an enemy ’plane?” “Yes,
Padre,” I whispered; “I may have to order
the men to scatter,” and I turned round just
in time to see the finale. The ’plane, swoop-
ing, ripped the balloon from end to end with
phosphorus bullets, dashed past, turned and
swept along her length once more, and so
set it ablaze. It was by this time only about
400 feet from the ground. One of the ofli-
cers leapt out; his parachute opened per-
fectly, and he commenced his swaying
STRANDED.
STRUGGLING SUITOR: “Do you know, my life
is very lonely!”
SHE : “Yes, I suppose it is—now that all
the fellows worth knowing are at the
Front.”
descent; then out leapt the other and his
parachute opened as successfully as the first.
The darting enemy dashed back and tried to
kill the two tiny figures in mid-air, the bullets
whistling and buzzing over the heads of the
congregation. Slowly the blaziing balloon
and the parachutists sank out of sight
behind the trees, and the ’plane, ignor-
ing us, turned homeward. “All right.
Padre,” I said, arid the mass was continued.
We heard afterwards that the two men
landed safely. One of them had a slight
scratch on the cheek and another on the neck
where a bullet had just grazed him.
Wellington (M.L.) is a bad place for any-
one to start a struggle with meningitis.
What happened to a citizen misguided
enough to make the experiment there
was explained the other day to a
coroner. A man staying at a local
hotel was discovered by a housemaid to be
ill in bed. A doctor was sent for, diagnosed
meningitis in the acute form manifested by
mania, and rang up the police to suggest the
removal of the patient to a mental hospital.
THE TOILET.
(Ladies’ beauty specialists please copy.)
INQUIRING PERSON : “However do you get
the tar off?”
TARRY DAN : “I’ll tell yeh! Turps and karo-
sine do be the ruination of the hands.
Now, a drop of oil an’ a rub in the sand
will lave them as white as the drippin'
snow.”
The reply was that the police could do
nothing unless the patient was deposited in
the street and information conveyed to it that
there was a lunatic at large. The staggered
Sawbones thereupon directed that the man’s
friends should acquire an ambulance and
have him removed to another hospital. This
job was duly commenced and turned out to
be one of the weariest pilgrimages ever made
by an ambulance driver on this earth. The
equipage was chased away from the district
hospital because the contents were noisy.
Then somebody had a brain-wave and de-
clared that the man inside was a returned
soldier—which he was not —and he was
driven to a military hospital. There he was
hunted away some more —and so it went on.
The journey had started about noon. When
darkness arrived the man was deposited in
a police station and was there viewed by
another doctor, who signed an emergency
order, and at last, somewhere towards mid-
night. the natient was handed into a mental
hospital, just in time to die. After hearing
this almost incredible story the Coroner said
everybody had acted according to rules and
regulations, and that the patient had suc-
cumbed to natural causes. Then he signed
27 documents, tied them up in red tape and
the undertaker did the rest.
* * * *
“Enrobso” : This is how Billjim mixes it
occasionally. Two stretcher-bearers, bring-
ing in a wounded comrade after Pozieres.
had an argument. Having asked “the bloke”
Whether he’d mind waiting a minute, and
the bloke agreeing, they put down the
stretcher, fought out their difference, shook,
picked up the luggage again and headed for
the clearing station.
“Wonga”: My young hopeful informs me
that at the local public school a “dummy”
is in use. This is the germ-collecting ind'a-
rubber affair that is jabbed in infants’
mouths to keep them quiet, a habit heartily
condemned by most doctors. At the school
it is used on boys or girls who are caught
sucking their pencils or thumbs, apparently
with the idea of ridiculing them out of the
practice. According to my youth the
“dummy” was sucked by some half-dozen
girls one morning without any washing.
Evidently the health course which wgs
boomed a couple of years ago by the N. S.
Wales Instruction Department was not
extended to all the teachers.
“0.K.”: The war being apparently an
occasion for festivity among non-combatants,
a group of American citizens in Melbourne
gave a gorgeous little dinner at Menzies’
Hotel lately to commemorate their country’s
arrival on the scene of bloodshed. A pros-
pectus had previously invited' subscriptions
from British-born managers of Yankee
houses, on the assurance that the damage
would not exceed £4 per head, and that their
help was needed to “make this dinner the
beginning of a new era in Australia and
the biggest affair of the kind ever held in
this part of the world.” Also it was stated
that the presence of vice-royalty would be
necessary to make the inaugu-
ration of the Era duly impres-
sive, and the G.-G. and State
Gov. were produced according
to contract. A message from
President Wilson came along in
answer to an earnest solicita-
tion, but the attempt to get
a few remarks by cable from
King George was not so success-
ful. It was “some dinner,” all
the same. The largest local
importers of ’Murkan goods
were there to meet their Exes.,
and a couple of American pro-
fessors lent national signifi-
cance to a gathering from
which the Allied Consuls and
representatives of other British
dominions were conspicuously
missing. Still, when the hosts
have to part up £3 15s. apiece
the list of guests has to be
limited somehow, otherwise the
subscription might run to a
fiver. The elaborate menu
card of this epoch-mak-
ing Feed seemed a bit
rough on the G.G. as the
guest of honor, all the
same. It presented the
Stars and Stripes above
the Union Jack and the flag
of Australia, whereas the
country giving the ban-
queters their protection
was certainly entitled to
have its emblem on top. If
a band of Britishers at Washington invited
of Australia, whereas the country giving the
banqueters their protection was certainly
entitled to have its emblem on top. If a
band of Britishers at Washington invited
the President to luncheon and gave the
Union Jack precedence of Old Glory—well,
anything might happen, especially in the
newspapers next morning.
* * * *
“Billzac”: The abridged history of Bill-
jim Jones, recited near the Gates of Gaza :
Jones was originally a member of the —th
Battalion, and fought with it on Gallipoli to the
end. Back once more in Egypt, he thought he would
try life with the Light Horse, so, being a bloke of
quiet ways, he decided to transfer to the —th L.H.
without all the usual bother and fuss. One evening
just when the battalion was embarking for France,
Jones presented himself in the lines of the —th, and
somehow or other got himself taken on the strength.
He remained till a chance of getting into the I.C.C.
turned up. His particular lot of camels got rather
entangled with things at Rafa on January 8, and
Jones, having done something special, was awarded
the Military Medal. On the strength of this he
asked for and obtained a week's leave to Cairo. On
arrival there he called at Headquarters to inquire
about his father, who is a prisoner of-war in Turkey.
Someone remembered Jones’s name, and turned him
up. He then informed the caller that he had been
awarded the French Croix de Guerre and the Medaille
Militaire for certain things that happened on Gal-
lipoli. Jones hadn’t heard a word of it, as the —th
Battalion had no trace of his whereabouts and no one
apparently spotted him in the —th L.H. On the
strength of this he managed to get a pass “till the
completion of duty” out of someone, and remained in
Cairo for two months. The Camels thought they had
lost him; but when Jones heard rumors of Gaza he
decided to “go home.” At Rafa he joined up with
the —rd Division, tramped with them to Gaza, and
charged with them on March 26. After the scrap
he found a horse wandering about, hoisted himself
aboard and proceeded to look for his Camels. When
he found them two days later they were on outpost,
and Jones’s equipment consisted of a rifle and several
pockets filled with ammunition. Next day Jones
was charged with being absent without leave. He
smiled, produced his “till the completion” pass, was
honorably acquitted, and boarded his camel again
amidst cheers.
WAR-TIME ECONOMY.
“I suppose you find it more economical now you do your own cooking.”
“Oh, much more! You see, my husband spares me all he can, so he dines more than
half the time in town now!"
THREE CHEERS FOR EVERYBODY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr Ward Price (official correspondent in the Bal-
kans) says that the Royalist Greeks are changing
their views with Oriental alacrity. Meetings appar-
ently spontaneous and enthusiastic were held through-
out Thessaly welcoming the new regime. Even
Larissa and Volo (which recently was a German
centre and submarine base) seem now a pent-up fur-
nace of pro-Ally enthusiasm. A trade has sprung up
in Venizelos brooches.”— Cables.
Demetrius Fishopolis, while still the east is grey,
Gets up and takes the dustbin in, and yawns a
Greek “Hooray!”
“Hooray!” he sighs, and totters in with shutters
laden down ;
Then, popping out, “Hooray!” he yells to wake the
Dago town.
He winks at old Demosthenes who trades across the
way,
And asks as softly as he can: “Which is top-dog to-
day ?”
The Greek’s a trader to the toes. He sits beside the
sea;
While trampling armies raise the dust he chaffers
warily.
His shop is open all the time, and boss and stock are
one;
The customer has only got to show the boss his gun,
Then anything the boss can do is done without delay ;
But somehow there’s a profit made on every Greek
“Hooray!”
He changes sides as chance may send, and does it
with such grace
That no man has the heart to kick or push his
Grecian face.
“Hooray! Hooray!” he shouts. “Hooray!” and
does it with a will,
And puts the threat and bribe away and plunks
them in the till.
Enthusiasm warms the hearts of warring nations
grey,
And he has cheers for everyone. {“Which is top-doq
to-day ?”)
N.s.w.
SENIOR OYSTER.


THE MAN WHO SLEW HIS GOD.


STILL ON THE MAT.
There is a growing dissatisfaction among members of the Government party in consequence of the habit of Ministers leaving Melbourne for the week-end
and staying away for lengthy periods. It is considered that while the war is on Ministers’ private business should wait. —Melbourne daily.


Why Have Grey Hair?
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless
recipe will correct it.
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it. with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few
nights with a small sponge and you will
soon have the pleasure of seeing the greyness
disappear. This recipe is perfectly harmless,
is neither sticky nor greasy, and has given
perfect satisfaction for many generations to
those in possession of the secret.— Advt. [4
BELLEVUE
HOTEL, F
The only Hotel
overlooking
the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now; in fact, it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNIOAN
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
/
The
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's* '
LEWIS &
WIiITTY
MAKERS
lIP
m
mm
.
3|S3^@V?’
- ■' • ■ ■
mwM
mm
m.
zmwmsm
■■■"■'.'S'yJW.
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
J nly Prof. W. H. Bragg (late
ot Adelaide), of radio-activity fame, 55, on
2nd; Federal Auditor-General J. W. Israel,
b 7, and novelist Helena Sumner Locke, on
4th; Canon Girdlestone (Adelaide!, 54, and
A. W. Piper, K.C. (S.A.), 52, on sth;
pianist Percy Grainger, 35, on Bth; H. E.
Barff (Sydney Uni.), 60, on 9th; E. J.
Stevens, M.L.C. (for many years managing-
director of Brisbane Courier), 72, on 10th-
John Perry, Sydney, 72, on 13th ; C. J. Dash-
wood, K.C. (late Crown Solicitor S.A.), 74,
IJth; musician Dr. Harold Davies
(S.A.), 50, on 18th; Tetley Gant, President
of the Speck’s Leg. Council, 61, on 19th; E.
F. Mitchell, K.C. (Melb.), 62, on 21st; Jus-
tice Gordon (S.A.), 67, on 26th; Justice
Crisp (Tas.), 43, on 27th; Dr. Carty Sal-
mon (Vic.), 56, on 29th; General W. D. C.
Williams (Australian A.M.C.), 61, and Mrs.
Ellis Rowan, on 30th; surgeon Alexander
MacCormick, 61, and geologist E. F. Pitt-
man (N.S.W.), 68, on 31st.
There is someone in the distant Orkney
Isles who remembers Gregor McGregor, the
stalwart Labor man who did good work in
the S. Aus. Legislative Council and Federal
Senate, in spite of
defective sight.
Lieut. Mears, of
the Australia,
lately visited the
graves of the
Hampshire sailors
—the few whose
bodies were washed
ashore and in
that lonely grave-
yard he noticed a
stone to the mem-
ory of one Lu Sing
Kang—“erected as
a memorial of a
kind act by a
Chinaman in nurs-
ing a blinded work-
ing - man (after-
wards Senator
McGregor, of the
Australian Com-
monwealth).”
J. M. RAAMS-
DONK, B.A., LL.B.
( Amsterdam ), Prof,
of Modern
Languages,
Tasmanian Uni.
Mfilb • Gone on, A. C. Macdonald, aged
/Vr ci was born in Campbelltown
(N.S.W.), the third son of one of the earli-
est settlers. There survive him an elder
brother, 93; sister, 91; and seven others,
the -youngest 70. The last death in this
family was in 1838, 79 years ago. What a
lesson upon inherited physique ! There could
not be a more industrious patriot than
Macdonald. His own business appeared to
be secondary to his concern for the affairs
of the Australian nation outside the poli-
tical dogfights. Sydney Smith might have
jocularly likened him to the apothecary who
sat up whole nights watching over the Brit-
ish Constitution. Macdonald was founder,
hon. secretary and hon. treasurer of the
Australian Geographical Society, he was a
walking history of our early days, and no-
body was better informed about black
brother.
S. Aus. Supreme Court has offered a sort
of decorous congratulation to the shade of
late Chief Justice Way. In his long career
of nearly 40 years he never had a decision
upset on appeal. His last outstanding
appealed-against decision, a taxation point
with which the Wallaroo and Moonta mines
were dissatisfied, has just been reviewed by
the Privy Council and upheld ; and present
Chief Justice Murray took an opportunity
of expressing his pleasure when the news
came before the Court in Adelaide.
THE RAVAGES OF WAR.
OLD LADY: “What! An old man like you
been to the Front! I can hardly credit
it.”
DIRTY DAN: “I suppose not, Mum! That's
the wunnerful part of this 'orrid war—
it ages one so!”
Just-dead Tom Thrower, who was chair-
man of committees while the Holman Labor-
ites were in power, was about the smartest
man (they have not been a very brilliant
lot) to graduate from Sydney Trades and
Labor Council since J. C. Watson’s day. At
the Trades Hall he had been pretty well
evei’ything—delegate, organiser, president,
secretary and secretary of the Eight-hour
committee. Before he became a paid union
officer he worked as a cabinet-maker and
was once a shopmate of Holman’s. It was
at the Trades Hall that he acquired the art
of accompanying speech with frowns. With
him frowning almost amounted to gesture.
When the Caucus selected him for the Chair
the Wadeites, who only knew the frown,
thought they wouldn’t be able to even get
their names in the paper. Soon, however,
they were being confronted from the table
with a placid brow: calls came their way
with scrupulous impartiality, and the de-
cisions from the Chair were quick, decisive
and sound.
John Dunlop Millen, general manager of
the Mount Bischoff tin mine (Tas.), carries
16st. of Irishman in his boots. During
Bischoff’s palmy days he gathered a staff of
masterly assistants, many of whom are now
in khaki. Among them is W. K. Mclntyre,
son of the late Justice Mclntyre (Tas.), who
after passing his engineering examinations
at Sydney was in 1910 Bischoff’s chief
assayer. He came to the conclusion that
medicine was surer than mining, so went to
Edinburgh, qualified, and on the outbreak of
war at once got to business in France. His
wife is the eldest daughter of Professor T.
W. E. David.
“Chevron”: When J. Carr Comyns, of
North Carlton (Vic.), sailed through the
Suez Canal on his way to Gallipoli he
passed a monument to his great-uncle, Lieut.
Waghorn, R.N., erected by a grateful Gov-
ernment at Port Tewfik, in recognition of
the old boy’s services in pioneering the
“overland route” to India, and impressing
Britain with the need for taking an interest
in the Canal. Comyns, having been photo-
graphed at the salute beside the monument
went on with his job, was at the Landing’
and his services with the 2nd Field Ambu-
lance thereafter won him the French War
Cross with Palms. He is on his way home
now.
An Auckland (M.L.) surgeon had a bit
of bad luck the other day. He died. His
name was Hope Lewis, and he was a very
skilful performer. He had lately operated
on a young man afflicted with certain crimi-
nal impulses and a pressure of the skull on
part of the brain. With the permission of
the Government Hope Lewis removed a piece
of bone, thus reducing the suspected cause
of the youth’s misfortune. Whether this
will lead to reformation Lewis will never
know—at any rate, not until the former
proprietor of the excessive bone follows him
over the Styx.
C. R. Pye, lieut.-colonel in Prance, who
won a D.S.O. at Harlincourt lately, was
born in Windsor (N.S.W.) only 26 years
ago. But Pye made an early start. He got
his medical degree at Sydney before he was
21, and at 24 he was 0.0. at Quinn’s Post.
New Papal Delegate Cattaneo will not
be absolutely friendless when he reaches
N. S. Wales. The Rev. Dr. T. Farrelly,
now with Bishop Carroll, of Lismore, is a
young Australian who succeeded in winning
the D.D. degree last year at the College of
Propaganda, Rome, under the rectorship of
Monsignor Cattaneo; so he, at least, has a
welcome awaiting the rep. of St. Peter.
Young Farrelly commenced as a pupil of
the Presentation Convent School at Lismore
and is the youngest Levite in Australia to
hold the degree.
From an ex-Australian in Petrograd:—
One of the most interesting- of the personalities
lifted into prominence by recent events is Lvoff, a
prince of hoary descent and a visionary democrat who
out-Tolstoys Tolstoy in humility. Lvoff, who has
affirmed his hankerings for equality by toiling with
the peasants on his huge estates at Tula, was a com-
missariat-officer in the Russo-Jap war, has been
Mayor of Moscow, and once worked in a railway
yard in America. His popularity as a reformer
earnt him the bitter dislike of the late bureaucracy,
which he further incensed by railing against the
virulence of hair-dye among the ex-Czar’s supporters.
To a man of Lvoff’s quixotic honor hair-dye was in-
compatible with honest behavior, and he censured it
accordingly. Kerensky, the Socialist War Minister,
is a dreamer turned active patriot by a
national emergency. Had not the revolution
happened he would have continued to recall
one of the aimless nitchevo types v?ho have
exhausted every emotion in Tehekov’s plays. But
the smash of the Romanoffs inspired him. He
became the Voice of Nationalism, and his flaming
rhetoric was employed to warm Ivan’s cold feet from
Riga to the Pruth. He is only in his thirties, and
is big and beautiful. One gets the contemplative
mind in Miliukov, the ex-Foreign Minister, destined
yet, perhaps, to be a useful brake. Miliukov is 60,
white-haired, white-moustached, and looks at life
benevolently through gold-rimmed eyeglasses. He is
the leader of the Constitutional Democrats, and (at
times) the most influential man in Russia. He has
a great friendship for the U.S.A., where he lectured
freely a few years ago. Tcheidze, the powerful head of
the Progressives, is violently unlike any of the former
in appearance, being gaunt and somewhat forbidding;
but he differs little from them in ideas and inten-
tions. He has the distinction of being the first
deputy to drive a Premier out of 'the Duma by the
ferocity of his invective. It was Tcheidze who fin-
ished the regime of the Germanophile Premier
Sturmer. He attacked the slimy courtier directly
in the Duma, called him “a snake in the grass,” an
enemy of Russia and other things that would not
DOING HIS BIT TO WIN THE WAR.
TAILOR : "Shall I put in the usual number of
pockets in the trousers, sir?”
CUSTOMER: “No! Only one. My wife is a
busy woman with her war work now,
and I don't want to take up too much
of her time.”
look pretty in English. The bulk of the House
roared its applause, while President Rodzianko tried
to keep order with his little tea-bell, and eventually
Stunner ignominiously fled—never to return to the
councils of the nation. The future will hear more of
Tcheidze. He is one of the few disinterested ideal-
ists who won’t be quiet.
Captain J. H. Butters, of Tasmania’s
Hydro-Electric Department, is the shiniest
apple in the Speck just at present. Fifteen
years ago he was serving his apprenticeship
in Siemen’s workshops. A twin-cylinder brain
has enabled him to get a first-class ticket
ror both engineering and business knowledge
and there s a bit of swank to carry him
through when the others fail. He is the onlv
departmental head
in the Speck’s pub-
lic service who
suffers from insom-
nia during working-
hours, and he is the
only one who wears
now what will be
the fashion next
week. In addition
to generating elec-
tricity he teaches
both its principles
and its necessity.
In his lectures he
enters into the
psychology of sales-
manship, and. the
first lesson which
he teaches is self-
belief and enthusi-
asm.
J. H. BETTERS,
chief engineer and
manager of Tas-
mania's Hydro-
Electric Dept.
Captain W. R. Aspinall, one of the latest
to win a Military Cross in France, got his
medical degree at Sydney Uni. last year. He
was captain of the ’Varsity football team for
three years, and played also in inter-State
Rugby matches. Of his three brothers, two
are still wearing khaki, and the third re-
cently returned invalided from active service.
Their father is Presbyterian parson A. A.
Aspinall, founder and first headmaster of
Scots’ College, Sydney.
B. C. J. Rose, now M.C. as well as
D.C.M., was in the landing as a private, and
hung on for four months in spite of two
wounds until dysentery gave him the knock-
out. By that time he was a sergeant. After
a spell in hospital he was back in time to
take a hand in the capture of Pozieres, where
he got a D.C.M. and a star for taking charge
of his company after its officers had been
killed. A second brother died of pneumonia
in Gallipoli, and the youngest, a sergeant,
was lately wounded in France. Rose’s
father, Anglican rector at Strathfield
(N.S.W.), was senior chaplain in N. S.
Wales before Federation, and went with Ma
State troops to the Soudan and S’Africa.
Passed at 73, Dr. Harry Benjafield, of
Hobart, who brought his Edinburgh degree
and a young family to Australia in the early
’7o’s. Reputed a bit of a faddist, he never-
theless scored marks as a useful citzen. In
the days before deep sewerage, when Hobart
smelt of cesspits and flung its
house-slops into the cobble-
gutters, the doctor pushed his
energetic personality into the
formation of a dairy co. to
supply Hobart with pure
milk as an antidote to the
then cruelly-prevalent typhoid
scourge. As medico, orchard-
ist, land-jobber, company-pro-
moter, cool-storage pioneer,
etc., “Old Benjy” was always
in the lead or thereabouts, and
never permitted the prevail-
ing rust of the Island to eat
into his tug-chains. Two sons
(one a Sydney doctor) are
at the Front, two other sons
are on the land, and the rest
of the family of nine (mostly
girls) are giving a good
account of themselves. The
old doctor was proud of the
fact that he worked his pas-
sage through the University by acting as
amanuensis for one of the professors.
A. C. Macdonald, the head and front of
the Geographical Society, who died the other
day in Melbourne, started his explorations
in 1847 —just 70 years back. He made
then the first of three overland trips from
Sydney to Port Phillip with stock. At the
close of 1849 he joined a survey party, and
in the following year settled in Geelong,
where he was in partnership with Charles
Rowand. For 20 years he dragged a theod-
olite about that district. Nobody who only
knew him of late years would suspect it, but
actually he once stood for Parliament. How-
ever, he lived that down during the next
half-century.
The Australian lumper who drives to his
job in a motor-car has arrived. This pioneer
is re-bagging wheat at Gidginbung
(N.S.W.).
THE BARRACKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An envoy from General Carranza is reported to
be on his way to Washington to announce that Mexico
is ready to enter the war against Germany.”— Cable.
Fierce, in the centre of the noisy ring,
The large contestants smite or pause for breath.
The little ones in desperate valor cling
To failing hopes, at bitter holts with death.
Outside, beyond the reach of scathe or wrong,
The distant nations barrack for a side—
Jeers for the weakling, homage to the strong—
As floods or ebbs the battle’s crimson tide.
Last year the Kaiser smiled to hear the sound
Of voices wondering at his doughty fist.
They hailed him victor on the third red round
When Russia reeled and Britain’s wallop missed.
They laughed to see Roumania flicker out;
The fall of Kut appeared a pleasant jest;
Fiance and world-freedom soon might break in rout
And Italy be hammered with the rest.
A year ago the Kaiser felt that din
Strike like kind music his imperial gar.
So many held the view that he must win
He could not heed the warnings loud and near.
But where are all those barrackers to-day?
The key is changed. The watching peoples know.
No bustling bookie has a cent to lay
On Basher Bill —not even Mexico!
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


■
m
wmm
a
mm
izr~zs
■ ■ ■
?, 1
Mi
■ ■
Nelson's "VICTORY
AS SHE FLOATS TO-DAY
ENGLAND
EXPECTS EVERY MAN
WILL
DO
HIS
U
ENGLAND
EXPECTS
EVERY
MAN
WILL
SIGNAL COLORS.
1. White Square on Blue field.
2. Yellow, Red, Yellow.
3. Yellow Cross on Blue field.
1. White Square on Blue field.
2. Blue, White, Red bands.
3. Yellow and Blue.
1. White Square on Blue field.
2. Blue, White, Red bands.
3. Blue Cross on White field.
1. White and Red squares.
2. Blue, White, Blue.
3. Blue Cross on White field.
1. Yellow and Blue.
2. Yellow, Red, Yellow.
3. Black Clubs on White field.
THE T. C. WILLIAMS'
VICTORY TOBACCO
SIGNAL COLORS.
DO 1. White Square on Blue field.
2. Black, Yellow, Black.
3. White, Blue.
HIS 1. Yellow Cross on Blue field.
2. Blue, White, Blue.
3. White, Blue.
D 1. White and Bed squares.
U 1. White Square on Blue field.
2. Blue Cross on White field.
1 1. Blue Cross on White field.
2. Yellow, Blue.
Y 1. White Square on Blue field.
2. White and Bed squares.
“VICTORY” CUT and “VICTORY” PLUG are well Known
throughout the whole of Australia as the leading Aromatic
or Brig'ht Tobacco.
it
VICTORY Flake-cut. VICTORY Special
Sealed
Tins.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of: —
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
You can get a Durable Roofing if you Demand It.
You can have rust-resisting and acid-defying, water-proof and vermin-proof roofing for your
buildings. There are mine buildings, dwellings, dairies, stables, barns, hog-pens and poultry-houses
roofed with ADAMAX, and water-tanks, culverts and gutterings made of ADAMAX The
next time you buy a roofing stop paying a tribute to rust, to decay and to the destroyers of’wood.
Buy ADAMAX ROOFING. It is only one-third the price, and costs one-third as much for
freight as galvanised-iron. ADAMAX was selected after exhaustive tests bv the West Austra-
lian Government for use on the Wyndham Freezing Works. The value of these’ works is approxi-
mately £600,000. If you are interested in better roofing with lower upkeep costs, write for free
samples and booklet, “The Adamax Series.” WM. ADAMS & CO. LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited, the
wool people:—
Debenture
Interest.
{‘ "A” Stock }
4p c. I Added
“B” Stock j to Re- Re-
-5 p.c. J Dividend. serves, serves.
1906.. £181,817 £85,102 5 p.c. = £27,950 £68,705 £98,158
1907.. 220,675 83,282 10 ~ ~ 55,900 81,493 179,651
1908.. 160,147 79,365 10 ~ „ 55,900 24,882 204,533
1909.. 162,390 78,440 12 6-7,, 71,871 12,079 216,612
1910.. 241,916 76,840 15 ~ ~ 83,849 81,227 297,839
Transferred to Capital .. £79.856 .. 217,983
1911.. 345,929 73,274 20 p.c. =» 127,770 144,885 362,868
Transferred to Capital .. £63,885 .. 298,983
1912.. 382,101 73,825 20 p.c. = 140,548 167,728 466,711
1913.. 202,499 73,147 15 „ ~105,411 23,941 490,652
1914.. 224,359 73,014 20 ~ ~140,548 10,797 501,449
1915.. 178,127 71,422 10 „ ~ 70,274 36,431 537,880
1916.. 194,950 70,418 12£ ~ „ 87,842 36,690 574,570
1917.. 225,566 69,686 15 „ ~ 105,411 60,469 625,039
The profit for the past year is subject to a
charge sufficient to pay a 10 p.c. bonus to
station managers and other employees. A
similar bonus paid for the previous year
absorbed £3499. The co. has had an excel-
lent season. Profits certainly are not equal
to some shown in the table; but in those
very fat years there was a large profit on
the sale of pastoral properties which had
been written down in the co.’s black days.
After the smash of the boom of the late ’Bo's
the co. had a very large number of such pro-
perties on its hands. As these were realised
some of the old debt was repaid, but most of
the money has been used in new finance
business —some of it, of course, to assist the
purchasers of the co.’s own properties.
The more important changes in recent
years are shown in the next table :
1906. 1916. 1917.
Capital .. .. £558,995 £702,737 £702,737
Reserves .. .. 133,385 630,774 695,313
Debentures . . . . 1,940,107 1,591,973 1,571,823
Other liabilities . . 167,575 159,309 173,685
Liquid assets .. 508,128 587,209 753,800
Advances .. . . 986,364 1,949,137 1,879,807
Properties and stock 965,667 260,771 252,601
Premises, etc. .. 339,903 287,676 257,350
The capital is now all in ordinary shares
fully paid to £l. The reserves are made up
as follows: Primary reserve, £100,000;
secondary reserve, £75,000; reserve fund,
£260,000 ; equalisation reserve, £50,000 ; pro-
vident fund reserve (which is as much a
liability as a reserve), £10,000; Brisbane
premises reserve, £20,000; unappropriated
profit, £110,039. The primary reserve was
created, under one of the numerous re-
arrangements, to assure interest on the
debentures; and the secondary reserve is
a second line of defence in the interest of the
same creditors. The debentures are: “A,”
£933,930; “B,” £637,893. The interest on
the “A’s” are a first charge on profits; they
carry only 4 p.c.—a fine lot of money to have
at the price these times. “B’s” carry 5 p.c.
Practically these are the co.’s only fixed
liabilities : most of the miscellaneous £173,685
shown in the table is money owing on open
accounts. This is the only safe financing for
a co. in this line of business. No doubt there
was violent overvaluation of assets 25 years
ago; but most of the trouble that occurred
then was due to the inability of the finance
cos. to nurse their pastoral securities through
a period of temporary gloom, in which
drought and rabbits and low prices made a
sort of nightmare. Yet it is doubtful whether
even on the violent over-valuation of the
late ’Bo’s this co. wrnuld have lost any money
on pastoral properties in Western N. S.
Wales and Queensland if it had been able to
nurse them until recent years.
That, of course, raises the question
whether the purchasers at recent prices and
those who have financed them are not going
to get into trouble presently. They may ; it
depends upon what happens to prices of wool
and other station produce in the next few
years. In 1895 N.S.W. merino (good) got
down to an average of 6d. The last man in
may have a bad time; but prices have been
so wonderfully good during the last few
years that only very recent purchasers are
likely to feel uneasy. And that makes things
more comfortable for this and other pastoral
finance cos. Meantime, owing to the high
prices, their own commission earnings have
been so large that they have been writing
down their own assets and building up large
visible reserves. This co.’s liquid assets are
now £753,800, which is something in excess
of the share capital; and there are severely
written-down station properties and ware-
house premises nearly equal to the reserves.
Future earnings of course depend very
largely on wool and other prices, metals in-
cluded ; but so far as security for principal
is concerned, the co. has worked itself into
just about as snug a position as any such co.
can be.
* * » •
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (Wes-
tralia) :
Dividends and
Dividend Tax
Pref. Written Re-
PijDfits. 6p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
Sept.,’lo.. £17,350 £4-16 24p.c. = £12,783£1167£217,133
Mar.,’ll.. 35,424 827 24 ~ ~ 12,783 2972 235,975
Sept.,’ll.. 21,004 827 24 ~ „ 12,783 1037 242,932
Transferred to capital, £101,450 .. 141,482
Mar.,’l2.. 36,460 827 16p.c.= 17,043 734 159,338
Sept.,’l2.. 18,326 827 16 „ „ 17,043 917 158,877
Mar.,’l3.. 38,114 988 16 „ „ 17,043 416 178,544
Sept.,’l3.. 21,407 1576 16 „ „ 17,043 837 180,495
Mar., ’l4 .. 40.718 1576 16 ~ ~ 17,043 6208 196,386
Sept.,’l4.. 22,973 1576 16 „ „ 17,043 1162 199,578
Mar.,’ls . 37,748 1500 16 ~ „ 16,232 824 218,770
Sept.,’ls.. 15,628 1500 16 ~ „ 16,232 2122 214,544
Mar.,’l6.. 33,505 1500 16 ~ ~ 16,232 1632 228,685
Sept.,’l6.. 18,431 1500 16 „ „ 16,232 399 228,985
Mar., 17.. 19,494 1500 16 „ ~ 16,232 676 230,071
That is a better profit than the previous half
showed ; but unfortunately the proper com-
parison is not with the previous half. Run
down the figures for the summer periods—
£4o,7lB, £37,748, £33,505, £lo,494—and if
you are a shareholder there will be iced
ginger-beer trickling down your back. Still,
perhaps things are really not as bad as that
comparison looks, because an exceptional
amount has lately been written off profits to
cover depreciation. For the summer half
the expenditure on repairs and maintenance
plus provision for depreciation has been:
1014, £7636; 1015, £7208; 1016, £6128;
1017, £13,710. So, had only an average
amount been struck off the working profit
last half-year, the net profit would have been
about £6OOO better. Even then, though, there
would be a nasty bump.
The trouble is that the co. is getting hit
both fore and aft. The working account
shows a smaller profit; either labor and
other costs are higher or sales are lower,
or maybe there is some of both. On the
other side general charges have increased.
“Trade exes.” •were £2664 at March, 1014;
now £3070. It costs a bit to keep the wild
water-waggoners at bay. Add the £4058
which has been bitten out of the past half-
year’s income to provide for taxes, and the
awful slump in profits is at least partly ex-
plained. The question is, “Are things going
to get better?” This paper lias its suspicions
that they may get worse. The early-closer
seems to have just as good chances now in
the West as he has anywhere. It didn’t look
like that at one time; it does now—
perhaps because the Devil, feeling sick, is
also feeling saintly. Anyway, the campaign
is going to cost the Trade a lot of money;
and taxes will do the same\ for years to
come. Meantime it is probable that the
co. will have to go on writing down assets —
providing, as it is called, for depreciation.
For a long while it was assumed that the
hotel properties retained their original value.
They remained in the balance-sheet at cost.
Now, however, this asset is being written
down. Last half-year’s profit is reduced by
£3OOO on that account; the previous half-
year’s by £2OOO. Hotel properties still repre-
sent £271,687 of the capital; and as most of
this money has been invested since West-
ralian town properties had their big rise,
there may be a lot of room for depreciation
there. For pub property has been appraised
hitherto not on the value of the land and the
bricks and mortar, but largely on the poten-
tial earnings of the bar. And those earnings
are shrinking with the hours of trading.
Luckily this co. never went into debt to buy
pubs at inflated prices. Its liabilities alto-
gether amount to only £20,708, and apart
from pubs and brewery and plant, it has
£136,967 of assets. Capital is £202,900 in
ordinaries (255. paid) and £50,000 in prefs.
(20s. fully paid).
* * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth!
Dividendsand Written Toße- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Oct., 1909. .£1557 10 p.c.= £525 £1032 £12,008
Apl., 1910.. 1831 20 „„ 1050 £268 513 12,521
Oct., 1910.. 1616 20 „ „ 1050 66 500 13,021
Apl., 1911.. 1892 30 ~ ~ 1575 317 13,338
Oct., 1911.. 1898 20 „ .. 1155 743 14,081
Apl., 1912.. 1691 28 „ „ 1628 63 14,144
Oct., 1912.. 1461 18i „ „ 1155 306 14,450
Apl., 1913.. 1888 26S „ „ 1680 219 14,439
Oct., 1913.. 1757 173,,,, 1150 607 15,046
Apl., 1914.. 1587 251 „ „ 1650 14,983
Oct., 1914.. 881 10 „„ 700 181 15,164
Apl., 1915.. 1267 10 „ „ 700 567 15,731
Oct., 1915.. 1573 10 „„ 700 873 16,604
Apl., 1916.. 1698 241 „,, 1700 16,602
Oct., 1916.. 1102 10 „ „ 750 352 16,954
Apl., 1917. . 1721 23J „ „ 1750 16,925
The co. pays one of its frequent shilling
bonuses, at the same time making a shilling
call. The 50s. shares will then be 16s. paid.
One thing should not be overlooked in a
case of this kind: every such addition to
capital makes the usual 10 p.c. dividend call
for a trifle more money. Seven years ago
it ran to £lOOO a year; now it will be
£l6OO. So, unless profits increase, the
bonus must be a much rarer bird in the
future than it has been in the past. And
profits are not increasing to any extent
worth mentioning. It isn’t easy come easy
go in the West like it was a while back.
Ten years ago the trusts in hand were valued
at £882,848 and the net profit was £1416.
Now the trusts are valued at £1,961,119 and
the net profit for the last term was £1721.
True, there are a few extra outgoings just
now. But even if there weren’t the co.
would not have much cause for complaint.
It still takes less than half the average profit
to pay alO p.c. div.; the assets, apparently
a very sound lot, are more than double the
assiduously watered capital; and the trustee
business is steadily growing and, with re-
spectable management, is likely to keep on
doing it.
* * * *
John Bridge and Co., Limited, wool and
pastoral produce salesmen, of Sydney and
elsewhere: —
, Dividends. N
Piet. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1910.. -- £3,602
Premiuir. on new shares ..£29,660 33,262
1911. .£18,885 £1320 20p.c.= £15,000 1,965 36,227
Premium on new shares .. 7,675 42,902
1912.. 13,824 1320 10p.c.= 8,576 3,928 46,830
Assets written down, £14,000 .. 32,830
1913.. 11,779 1320 10p.c.= 8,807 1,652 34,482
1914.. 21,198 1320 121 „ „ 11.009 43,351
1915.. 16,762 1320 5 „„ 4,404 11,038 54,389
Written off securities, £6OOO .. 48,389
1916.. 10,608 1320 10p.c.= 8,808 480 48,869
Written off, £3869 .. .. 45,000
1917.. 17,281 1320 10 p.c.= 8,808 7,153 52,153
The long-threatened break between Bridges
and the Wool Soiling Brokers’ Association
happened lately. Bridges haven’t made
themselves a nice, affable member of the
circle. Possibly (though it ought to be
too ridiculous to say it) sectarian feeling
had something to do with the strained rela-
tions. Not all. of course. Bridges were
continually wanting to do things differently.
In 1912 they wanted various changes made
in order, they said, to avert a threatening
increase in the selling rate. Their competi-
tors in the Association merely sniffed. Later
on they did introduce some changes in
their own business —they abolished wool can-
vassing for instance, as they had wanted
others to do. The results, they say. are
entirely satisfactory. Meantime, however,
as they couldn’t get the Association to cou.c
over to their way of thinking, they gave
notice of withdrawal: but before their mem-
bership expired they were expelled, the direc-
tors refusing to attend the meeting and make
a defence unless they were told what the
charges were beforehand. They allege that
this information was refused them. So
Bridges are now out of the Association; but
that that isn’t necessarily fatal the success of
the Co-operative proves. This paper isn’t a bit
concerned in the quarrel. But it is con-
cerned in the charges which are making
the life of the man on the land almost in-
tolerable ; and the nation is very deeply con-
cerned, too. It certainly can’t afford to stand
by and see the land made any more unat-
tractive than it is.
Pretty big changes have occurred in soriie
of the figures:—
Liabilities.
1912. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Capital. . .. £107,675 £110,075 £110,075 £110,075
Mortgages, etc. 67,029 189,989 173,797 350,210
Assets.
Properties .. 131,856 165,586 165,315 164,989
Advances, etc. 88,110 183,331 155,835 315,257
Plant, etc. . . 10,026 11,106 13,766 23,851
Liquid assets.. 1,439 1,856 9,686 20,468
The directors say a lot, but they don’t ex-
plain the increase of “sundry creditors” from
£54,571 to £157.977 and overdrafts from
£24,367 to £90.451. This money is repre-
sented on the other side by “advances against
wool, produce, and sundry debtors’ accounts.”
£315,257; last year the item was £155,835.
Apparently—this is merely The Bulletin’s
guess—the extra money is represented by
wool which the British Government has
bought but not yet paid for —the appraise-
ment wasn’t all finished on March 31. If
this, is so the increase in the two items has
no significance. Mortgages are £45,000;
against that are freehold stores, £162,163—an
amount just equal to the capital plus reserves.
The co. thus has to depend wholly on outside
money to finance the business. The stores
include extensive premises at Brisbane. Here
there is a branch Board, now three years old.
The directors report “marked progress” in
Queensland, with the “best results to date.”
* * * •
The Maoriland Government Life In-
surance Department :—-
Provided Added
Claims against to In-
and Sur- Ex- Depre- surance
Dec., Revenue, renders, penses. ciation. Fund.
1904.. £480,716 £266,704 £60,490 £153,522
1905.. 490,924 263,148 63,829 £6,953 156,994
1906.. 507,070 270,220 67,828 169,022
1907.. 526,712 304,230 66,670 155,812
1908.. 534,440 328,763 68,403 20,000 117,274
1909.. 546,566 333,990 72,120 .. 140,456
1910.. 561,151 340,028 71,534 149,589
1911.. 594,410 344,957 74,213 30,000 145,240
1912.. 590,314 378,653 82,489 129,172
1913.. 600,068 367,673 81,405 150,990
1914.. 625,764 411,903 84,650 75,458 53,753
1915.. 636,185 490,610 89,590 55,985
1916.. 646,115 459,182 73,904 113,029
It isn’t a very cheerful table. Still in life
assurance all that glitters is not bonuses.
The Yankee offices glittered like real
eighteen-penny diamonds a few years ago;
then the Government said they had better
try to earn some plain ordinary profits for
policy-holders. This office makes a poor
showing in regard to the growth of revenue.
But it has to he remembered that its field is
small —it doesn’t pursue business outside
Maoriland. That makes it impossible to
pile up figures quickly. But, as the Ameri-
can experience showed, you can pile up
figures at an absurdly high cost. There were
few years, for instance, when the Equitable
didn’t actually spend in Australia more than
its total Australian revenue. That was when
it had King O’Malley and others out after
new business. This M.L. State office has
decided that about £25,000 in new premiums
is a fair annual performance. It might do
more; but to do it would bump up costs,
and they are high enough already. Assum-
ing that old (renewal) business is done for
7 p.c. and that single-premium business costs
3 p.c., then the new business last year cost
ISO p.c. of first-year premiums.
This is far too much, of course ; and be-
cause other offices can show much better
figures this office has difficulty in hanging
on to its business. Consider the appalling
number of lapses in the past four years:—
Death or
Maturity. Surrender. Lapse.
1913 .. £232,011 £158,912 £300,701
1914 .. 207,257 151,811 357,475
1915 .. 322,019 142,151 371,157
1910 . . 322,369 101,744 336,639
This is a lamentable record, and really
amounts to a serious reflection on Maori-
land’s business sanity. Either these people
don’t know what they can afford and take
out policies in excess of their means, or they
are unstable people who make a bargain
with one man and then are persuaded
by another that lie could have put them on
to a better thing. One feature is quite clear:
the average l amount of the lapsed policy is
always higher than the average amount of
the policy which is hung on to until death
or inatuMty. The figures are very striking:
Average Amount of Policy.
Death. Maturity. Lapse.
1915 .. £267 £lB3 £3lO
1916 . . 219 205 318
This gives the straight griffin to the office
to talk seriously to agents who are in the
habit (as many agents are) of persuading
clients to increase the amount they are pro-
posing to insure for. The wise plan is to
first get clients for a little and nail them
for a lot more when they have proved them-
selves good pays and have some surrender
value to come and go on. The office’s pre-
sent record of lapses is so bad that atten-
tion certainly ought to be given to this mat-
ter of discouraging over-large proposals.
If the M.L. State Office could work at a
better expense rate its bonuses would be
very luscious notwithstanding its very low
premium rates; for the death experience of
ALL. is almost if not quite the best in the
world, and the earnings of capital in Maori-
land are very good. Last year the average
funds earned £4 11s. lid. p.c. net—that is.
after providing for land and income taxes;
and they are no trifle at present. Indeed,
this is one respect in which M.L. handicaps
its own State office, since the Government
imposes on it tax-burdens much in excess
of those borne by competing offices having
a wider field. Of its funds far too much is
i nveste d in mortgages—just on the edge
of 60 p.c. But the total amount is being
reduced, and all current excess of revenue
* s i* e ing invested in war loans :
£190.000 has been thus put where it is most
wanted in the last couple of years, and there
is a nest-egg of current-account money pre-
sumably awaiting investment in the next
loan.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
ef 4. -_ - - Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1910.. £968 9 p.c.=£472 £496 £8,221
fc’ . . 950 9 „ „ 472 478 8,699
Sept., 1911.. 1009 9 ~ . 479 537 9
Mar 1912,. 1071 9” ” 472 599 I’fst
Sept, 1912.. 1014 10 „„ 561 453 10,288
Mar, 1913.. 996 10 „ „ 550 446 10,734
Sept, 1913.. \ 90 . 2 10 .... 545 357 11,091
. ( Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,591
Mar, 1914.. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,055
Sept, 1914.. > 92 £ 10 „ ».. 550 377 11,432
_ r ( Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,932
Mar, 1915.. 753 10 p.c. = 536 217 11,149
Sept, 1915. . j 891 15 868 23 11,172
, r l Written off, £ 500 .. .. 10,672
ar ;> 863 10 p.c. = 702 151 10,823
Sept., me- 882 15 „„ 850 32 10,855
Mar, 1917.. 986 15 „ „ 850 136 10,991
The capital is £10,000; so the 15 p.c. divi-
dend £7so and the other £lOO is tax. The
co. isn't piling up reserves fast, but every
little helps, and the total now exceeds the
capital. The funds are invested in mort-
gages, premises and saleable securities, and
bring in about £BOO a year—B p.c. on the
capital. The business, which is slowly but
steadily expanding, does the rest. It is a
nice, comfortable little investment, with no


The British Westinghouse Electric Si Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-prool attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even the highest speeds.
3?k\
SPECIAL FEATURES
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.^
Prevents motor “ flashing over.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the f ontroller,. and
materially reduces the strain on the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—TraSford Park, Manchester, England.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE.
263
, General Manager,
George Street, Sydney.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
THE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
-1 fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
The gas generated in the tanks can be used for
power in internal combustion engines, or for electric
lighting. Eliminates offensive odors. Gives perfectly
clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, Sydney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain
New Zealand..
3/- 1/6
4Jd.
9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada .. 2/4 1/2
7d. (minimum
11/8, 20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4-
/ 7d. (minimum
\ll/8,20 words)
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
JjlOR IMMEDIATE SALE.
MOUNT MILLER
MANGANESE MINE.
BEECHER,
Boyne Valley Line,
Queensland, Australia.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
prospect of a fortune in it, but with every
prospect of a tortoise’s sure progress if the
management continues sane.
From London Standard :
Inquiries in quarters that in view of their ex-
tensive interests should certainly have been con-
sulted failed to elicit any confirmation of yester-
day’s cable intimating that Mr. Hughes has sold
to* Great Britain the Australian Commonwealth s
metal output for the next 10 years at favorable prices.
The utter impossibility of foreshadowing what will
be the course of metals after the war was sufficient
to place cautious persons upon their guard. What,
however, is quite possible is that a tentative
arrangement has been entered into with the Im-
perial authorities whereby a market has been
secured for the products for the period named, thus
safeguarding the industry against foreign domina-
tion existing before the war The fixing of prices
is quite another thing, and one that could scarcely
be arranged until the fiscal policy of this country is
entirely changed.
Mr * * *
The proposed sale of the Union Steam
Ship Co. to the P. and O. isn’t being received
with a loud “Hallelujah” in Maoriland. The
Government doesn’t like it; very many of
the shareholders don’t like it; the country
is certainly mistrustful of it. The idea
is to buy out the million ordinary shares,
leaving the million 5i p.c. prefs. untouched.
For the million ordinaries the P. and O.
offers 80s. cash and 10s. deferred P. and O.
stock, the latter said to be worth 80s. at
present on account of the co.’s enhanced divi-
dend. Union shareholders don’t know wlmt
their property really is worth, because this
co. has always been notable for the size of
its inner and therefore unspecified reserves.
It is. however, alleged that the co. has a
million or thereabouts of liquid assets: if
so, the £1.500.000 they would get in cash
would be largely their own money. Taking
the P. and O. deferred stock at 305., the
shareholders would get £3,000,000. Add
£1.000,000 for the pref. shares. Total pur-
chase price, £4.000,000. The co. has 270,000
tons of shipping. If it had no other assets
whatever, the purchase price would be thus
equal to £l4 15s. per ton. This is a good
deal less than shipping without any goodwill
attached brings at present; and the share-
holders, if they sold at all, might reasonably
ask that much for the shipping plus the
goodwill. That, of course, would mean an
additional division among the ordinary
shareholders of the value of the assets apart
from shipping and goodwill. The offer, as
'it stands, is on the niggardly side.
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), has installed a
second furnace for working up matte. This
system of furnace concentration raises the
copper contents to 52 p.c., thereby .reducing
freight and other exes. One of the best runs
for 14 days was 1364 tons ore and basic
copper-bearing flux for 54 tons copper con-
tained in first matte. Subsequently 268 tons
of accumulated first matte were concentrated
in the second furnace to 129 tons shipping
matte containing about 60 tons copper. Fol-
lowing this 7844 tons ore were smelted in a
week for a return of first matte containing
26.34 tons of copper. Things are going well
at the mine, where the crosscut at No. 3
level is in 8 p.c. to 18 p.c. ore —one of the
numerous enrichments that occur in the
C.S.A^
The Junction, the poor relation of the
Broken Hill family, is in these days mostly
Sydney-owned; and the co., having made a
satisfactory contract with the Sulphide Cor-
poration, is steadily pulling itself out of the
bog it has been in for 15 years or more. Last
half it raised 18,098 tons; its actual revenue
was £30,834 and estimated surpluses, etc.,
carry the total to £34,926. After spending
£5231 on development and writing off £2070
against depreciation, there was a profit of
£6971. This and subsequent realisations
have enabled the co. to pay off the last of
the mortgage; and the only other debts on
March 31 totalled £lBl6. The ore is com-
paratively low-grade—last half-year’s aver-
age was 9.70 z. silver, 12.9 p.c. lead and 7.5
p.c. zinc—-and the bodies are irregular and
not cheaply worked ; but there are some good
blocks available, and with strong metal mar-
kets the mine looks much more like paying a
few dividends than it has at any time since
the long-ago days when a former co. got on
to a very fine patch, dragged it out and
then saw most of the workings cave in. There
are 72.567 shares fully paid to 10s. and
200,000 of 10s. paid to 6s. sd.
4 * * *
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.) is again
causing .T. E. Scantlebury some bother,
another application for suspension of labor
being booked for this week. The co. has not
yet given anything back for its expenditure
of £50.000 odd, and says it won't call up any
more until the Government hands over _a
subsidy. On present appearances, it will
have a long wait. Meanwhile the Amalga-
mated has driven 300 ft. into the adjoining
Hawkins Hill Central Co.’s territory on a
cash-payment and part-profit basis. The
drive lias now been taken under the old
Patriarch shaft, which, on being sent down a
bit further, will release a big body of water
and uncover some likely-looking ground. Cen-
tral has thus become a promising proposition.
It has a capital of £37.000 in a quarter-
million 3s. shares, 200,000 fully paid up, the
others paid to Is. 6d.
* * * *
“Oxhide” : A feeling of weird expectancy
pervades Sunny Corner (N.S.W.). At the
Verdun mine, whose discovery was announced
with a boom, progress has been hampered by
an infantile engine; but the plant seems to
have got over its teething troubles now and
the new shaft is down 30 feet and is in gold-
bearing country; so if there is anything to
hear it should be heard soon. Several other
shows are being prospected, but the owners
are not making a noise about the results thus
far. There are rumors of a resurrection at
the old Sunny Corner; a syndicate has taken
it over, together with some thousands ot
tons of ore and residues left by the old co.
and a parcel of about 800 tons taken out by
the Zinc Corporation. All this stuff carries
a big percentage of zinc, which, however, is
not allowed for at the present time. Yet it
seems to be a paying proposition to transport
this ore, 10 miles by road and 150 by rail,
for treatment by a concern that pays for
silver and lead only. It is over. 20 years
since the old co. suspended operations. For
15 years practically nothing was done to
work the mine or even comply with the labor
conditions; then a few local residents agi-
tated for the cancellation of the leases, and
after inquiry by the Warden this was done.
The mine was at once taken up by a syndi-
cate, which cleaned up the old workings and
exposed lafge bodies of ore in all the levels
above the waterline. Later on the Zinc Co.
took an option over the show, but the ore
bodies disclosed were not big enough to
satisfy the co. that it would pay to erect an
extensive plant, and the option was aban-
doned. No work has been done since till
the present owners came along. Whether
they will do any more than deal with the
Stuff at the surface remains to be seen.
» * * *
Tom Livingston. Vic. Minister for Mines,
has been doing his best to push the Govern-
ment brown-coal deposits in the direction of
ihe market. Besides giving those who own
gas-producing plants a chance of . observing
how cheaply results can be obtained from
the State product, he has miraculously pre-
vailed on his brethren in the Cabinet to
decree that nothing but brown coal shall be
used for heating State offices. This will
mean one fairly important item on the right
side of the ledger, against the spasmodic but
considerable expenditures of various Govern-
ments on opening up the brown-coal proper-
ties.
# * * *
Cathcart Central, Ararat (Vic.), puts up
the shutters this week after five years’ pros-
perity. On a capital of £17,083 the co. has
paid '£112.500 in divs. out of £211,440 gold
won. Of the balance, £131,970 went more
or less for labor thus:—
W’ages and salaries .. £98,460
Props, laths, etc. .. 13,287
Fuel . . .. .. 12,920
Stores and sundries .. 7,303
By the worst of luck the old Cathcart
crowd turned the lease down for a lot less
than £5OO, believing the gutter trended nor’-
east instead of south-east. Dead Jim
McCrorey and racer Riley thought other-
wise, and each made a pot through backing
the claim. The Murrays bought in later and
put W. A. Rain up as chairman. The
Bryants afterwards shouldered their way
into control, and will be at the wake. The
final six months’ work gave 55150 z. from
5123 fathoms, the average being a shade over
an ounce, against loz. 61dwt. for the previous
half-year. The mine therefore closes up with
an average of well over an ounce from a run
of wash of about 200 ft. in width. The last
2500 ft. of the gutter lies inside the New
Langi Logan, and is to be the sweetener
there until Bill Toole can dip his spade regu-
larly into the big Langi lead.
» * * *
Having got on to the call-list North Nug-
getty, Da.vlesford (Vic.), went one better
and borrowed £l5OO from George Buchanan.
Now the Board is waiting to see what turns
up at the Ajax Central next door, where
deep-sinking is going on. With £57,000 paid
in divs. this isn’t a fair thing; if the old
North Nuggetty crowd won’t part up cash to
spend on the mine they ought to be shunted
for a pluckier party.
* * * *
Ingliston Extended, a main-line Meeka-
tharra (W.A.) show in which Sydney sank
a bit of capital, has been sold with plant and
equipment to a machinery firm. A partly-
English co. had control for about 10 years,
but though nearly a quarter of a million ster-
ling was taken out of the property in that
time shareholders got nothing, and finally
the curtain was rung down. The same hap-
pened last year to the neighboring Queen of
the Hills, owned by the Oroya Exploration;
now another, the Marmont. is reported to be
in the same plight.
Ida H., a show outside Laverton (W.A.),
which produced over half a million sterling,
paid more than £lOO,OOO in divs. and then
shut up, is again being noticed. This time
tributors have struck a patch, out of which
£4OOO has already been taken. Al 2 months’
extension of the tribute has been secured,
and all hands are breaking out rich ore.
* * * *
Good reports are circulated locally about
Black Range Pinnacles (W.A.). The lode
is alleged to be looking well between the No.
1 and No. 2 levels, ample supplies of ore are
said to be available in the No. 1 level stopes,
and water scarcity is declared to have been
overcome. But what about the nature of the
ore at depth? The market sniffs and passes
by.
Last year’s work at Trong, Malaya, was
863,893 cub. yards dredged for 344.116 tons
tin oxide, or an average of 0.8921 b. per cub.
yard. This falls short of prospectus expec-
tations, which ran to l£lb. for the ground in
the northern valley. In the last year’s work
the ground has yielded lO.lld. That is with
tin oxide at £lO5 11s. Bd., and as dredging
has been a soft job costs have kept just
under 4d. per yd., leaving 6d. profit. Malaya
hits up its mines for royalty and super-tax,
as out of £43,000 gross got by the co. for its
tin the Government snapped £7OOO. What
Trong’s life is under the altered circum-
stances (especially with regard to values) is
left to the imagination. Probably dredge
and plant, now that poorer and stiffer ground
remains, is the best asset. It should be the
bait to draw a new lease into the fold. Per-
haps that is why Horton is settling down for
a while in Melbourne.
* * * *
S. Australia has now a metallurgical
laboratory attached to its Mines Depart-
ment, where it experiments with typical
ores from various mines and districts with a
view to developing payable or more economi-
cal processes of metal extraction. In a
letter covering the last-published technical
report (No. 2) of the laboratory the Direc-
tor of Mines remarks that the paper shows
“how the services of a trained metallurgist
may be advantageously used by various min-
ing cos. for the mutual benefit of the cos.
and the State.” It was through just such
research work that the Germans collared so
much of our smelting and other industries;
and in providing a substitute S. Aus. has
been guilty of a piece of practical patriotism.
• * * •
“Oof Bird” collects some information re-
garding nuggets found in Westralia: —
In 1890 John Doyle and others found a nugget of
3330 z. in Pantomime gully, Pilbarra, and called it
the “Little Hero.” Seven years later two brothers
named Martin rooted out from a few feet below
the surface of a Wiluna (Lake Way) show a 4630 z.
lump and christened it “The Monarch.” It was,
however, nothing more than a mass of quartz and
gold quite devoid of all traces of water action, and
in some respects resembled the “Joker” slug of
3031 oz. of practically pure gold broken out of a
small reef 6ft. below the surface at Black Flag two
years previously. Two big nuggets, the “Bobby
Dazzler” of 4870 z. and the “General Gordon” of
3720 z., were found on the Pilbarra field in 1899, and
several others ranging from lOOoz. to 170 oz. were
unearthed at Kurnalpi, Bulong, Coolgardie and else-
where during that year. Occasional ones of about
the same weight have since been discovered in vari-
ous parts of the State; but little or no precise infor-
mation concerning them is obtainable. Probably
the nugget that caused the most excitement was the
“Golden Sickle” or “Sacred” nugget, alleged to
have been picked up at Kanowna in July, 1898. It
was reported to be 15in. long, of the shape of a
sickle, and to weigh 16360 z. Its value was estimated
at £6500. The two finders and Father Long were
the only persons who knew where the discovery was
made, and for some days considerable discontent was
expressed among the thousands of alluvial diggers
then on the field at the spot being kept a secret.
Finally Father Long announced, from a hotel bal-
cony to a crowd of about 10,000, that the nugget
was found on the Kurnalpi road. A wild stampede
took place to the spot indicated, and the country
was pegged out in all directions. No gold, however,
was obtained, and this, combined with the mystery
surrounding the find, caused doubts to be expressed
as to the truth of the whole yarn. The nugget was
stated to have been lodged in the Union Bank, Kal-
goorlie; but as the bank declared it knew nothing
about the deposit, and as the nugget neither reached
the mint nor was entered for export, the whole
story of the find came to be finally regarded as a
hoax. Nothing further was heard of the “discov-
erers,” and Father Long died soon after.
« » * *
If you have a motor running in a very dirty or
dusty place, protect it by means of a Type “F” form
“IC”-20 totally-enclosed Oil Switch, which is provided
with no voltage, and instantaneous or time limit
over load protection, acting as an insurance against
costly repairs to your plant, thus increasing your
profits. These switches are especially manufactured
for mining and industrial serviej, and the Australian
General Electric Go. will be pleased to forward any
information desired on these switches or any
other control problem that may present itself to
you.— Advt.
* * » *
A new invention that is attracting marked atten-
tion is an all-steel fence made and designed in
Australia, by the Eawson Moody Manufacturing Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney. It is built with powerful
steel posts and droppers, in conjunction with which
is used a powerful non-stretch steel wire, and the
whole makes a dandy fence that is simple, strong
and cheap, as it costs only 15s. to £1 per chain
complete. Catalogue on request.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow lGin. x Din. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. — Advt. [2
* * * *
The weak point of metal pipe has been made the
strong point of Pioneer Wood Pipe. In which the
minimum amount of metal surface is exposed to rust
—a telling point when taken in conjunction with its
many other satisfactory features. Write for our
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company,
Limited (Head Office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Fac-
tories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W. ; Footscrav, Vic.;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State
Governments. — Advt.
*** * „
Go nap every time on Asbestolite as the sure
winning building material. There are five certain
tricks—economy, durability and workability, Ant- and
Fire-proof, and unexcelled, handsome, finished appear-
ance. It improves with age, is stocked in all handy
sizes. Atniwud and all finest Three-ply Veneers
stocked. Get instructive Booklet “B.” Spriggs’
Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt. [7
* . * * 11-
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Gyratory Rock Crusher from Australian stock: the
world-renowned “McCully.” No. 4 manganese-fitted.
Capacity 20 to 48 tons hourly. Apply sole represen-
tatives : Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, the
Quay, Sydney; or, The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd.", 130 Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oevtling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.


PAULINE et CIE
Announce that they have Greatly
Reduced all their Present Season’s
French, English and American Model Hats.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
Ceorge Street, Sydney.
HEtRIHGi
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
_ J\zk
ale the Cbffecfc'
Qgyt&ssion^
Produced entirely under
the British Flag
Underwear
Made in England from fine Australasian Wool, Jason Underwear
gives greater comfort than any other you ever wore.
New “Olympic’* Brand
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are
made, the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular iines.
Your dealer will supply you. Sole manufacturers
JASON UNDERWEAR CO., LEICESTER. ENG.
Abyi (J>
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVIN
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, June 25, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
Excitement over the sale of the boxes for
the gala matinge came to fever-heat when
the Rajah of Pudukota intimated his desire
to have one. Optimists hurriedly inquired
the sterling value of a lac of rupees and pre-
pared to collect a waggon-load of the coin.
But alas! all that was offered was a
cheque for £lO. A plain Australian citizen
having offered £lO 10s. for the same pen
there was nothing doing in rupees.
The Red Cross benefit for the French
League had a freezing night. But the Glaci-
arium, where the affair took place, is not so
cold as it sounds. Hot steam-pipes thread
through the big shed where Sydney belles
used to skate the figure 8. S. Victor, re-,
cently returned after 24 years’ service with
the Light Horse, now runs the place as a
movie palace, and he lent it, lock, stock and
lighting, to the committee. So exes, were
almost nil.
Tableaux arranged by Minnie Hooper
were specially good when “Australia,”
“Wales” (pretty Nell Riley held up her
empty hand, the harp having been forgotten
by some faithless Llewellyn who swore he’d
bring it) and “Ireland” showed their mettle.
In tlie big tableau, “England,” Miss Rodd,
with a head of raven hair flowing past her
waist, was a handsome Britannia. Elsie Simp-
son, the ’Murkan Economic lady, appeared at
the head of one brigade. “Italy” was supplied
by the Red Cross book depot. The French
Consul was in the crush. Eadith Walker
dodged the searchlight from the cinema
machine and found a seat in the gloom
beyond. Macarthurs, Mrs. John Fell, Enid
Bayley (well furred). Justice Sly and his
missus, and nearly every other Red Crosser
in town braved the breeze to back the show.
The Corsican soldier of fortune, Napoleon,
by a quaint whim, was the programme’s
frontispiece.
Sweet are the uses of advertisement. The
Tivoli gala matinde programme was worth
£9O to the fund for the relief of distress in
gallant France.
Two ladies, mother and daughter, connected
with the most valuable of old-time families,
passed out in London recently within three
days of one another. The mother was Eglan-
tine Julia, widow of William Robert Camp-
bell, daughter of Edward Deas Thomson,
Colonial Secretary under the old Imperial
system, and grand-daugliter of Governor
Bourke (1831-37). The second lady, her
eldest daughter, was wife of Captain Dudley
North, R.N., who is a son of Colonel Dudley
North, C. 8., and a grandson of Major Lock-
yer, father of Nicholas Lockyer, of the Inter-
State Commission. Mr. W. R. Campbell,
long-time an M.L.C., was son of that Robert
Campbell, Colonial Treasurer in the second
Cowper Ministry, who died in harness from
overwork in 1859, and grandson of Robert
Campbell, the “father of Australian com-
merce,” who founded a mercantile house in
1796 at Campbell Wharf, Sydney Cove, where
business was continued until the A.S.N. Co.
bought the premises.
The ivy-clad convalescent home at Moss
Vale, The Mill, dates back to 1836. As its
name suggests, there was a jolly miller there
in its youth. Then it evolved—with assist-
ance from hammer and saw —into a dwelling.
The Bridges family took root and held
it for about 30 years, and the late Major-
General, who led Billjim to Gallipoli, rode
past his old home during his last visit to
N. S. Wales. Now Frank Throsby, the
owner, has lent The Mill to the Red Cross
for returned soldiers and sailors, and the
V.A.D. under Matron Matthews does the
rest. Massage is one of the beautiful old
nook’s modern specialties.
When Duntroon Military College opened
four boys entered from the north side of
Sydney Harbor. They represented four
suburbs and four schools: Newmarch from
North Sydney and North Shore Grammar;
Biden, Neutral Bay and Sydney High ; Pain,
Cremorne and Sydney Grammar; Wootten,
Mosman and Fort-street High. When the Hun
broke loose, Newmarch was posted to Artil-
lery, Biden to Engineers, Wootten and Pain to
Infantry, and all were in the Gallipoli land-
ing. Poor Biden, after lasting almost to the
evacuation, died of pneumonia after being
promoted to captain. Newmarch was
wounded at Gallipoli, promoted captain,
wounded again in France, mentioned in
dispatches, awarded the M.C., and is now in
Australia. Pain was wounded, and earned
the M.C. at Lone Pine, promoted captain,
came home for a spell, returned to France,
promoted major, again wounded, and now
holds a staff appointment. Wootten has
been right through without figuring in a
casualty list. lie was a captain at 21.
major at 22, has been mentioned several
times in dispatches, and is now a D.S.O. *
When Ada Reeve flicks her eyelashes to
the gallery and warbles to a photo on an
adjacent table, she gets the same vociferous
encores as of old. Standing room only at
the front of the Tivoli, and not much more
in the little den where Ada is removing the
grease-paint after tearing herself from the
audience. Here the Anzac Buffet in London is
her text. About 8000 Australian soldiers
use it every week. “And I get letters still
from some of them calling it the only home
they know out of Australia. Think we
ought to let it close just for lack of money?
Victoria answered that question by giving me
£5OOO straight away. Now I’m going to
ask New South Wales to give the same —or
more. You’ve got a bigger population here.”
Then as her dresser laces up the other tan
boot, Ada delivers a financial statement.
“They were giving Australian soldiers at
the Anzac a good meal for 34d. —think of
that! And didn’t collect even the ha’penny.
There was a box for voluntary contributions.
If they feel able to give anything they do.
About £9OO a year came in that way. It
used to take £3OOO to run the place for 12
months. Now it must cost £4000.” So
that’s how the front door nearly slammed a
few weeks ago.
Here is Herbert R.
Curlewis, barrister-
at-law, just ap-
pointed to the In-
dustrial Court in
place of the late
Judge Pickburn. His
Honor is native-
born, and probably
the first sound he
heard was the boom
of the surf on Bondi
beach. A Sydney
Uni. graduate, he
bought his first brief-
bag in 1893. He
wields a facile pen
and has even plunged
into frivolous verse.
Mostly, however, he
sticks to the law
when he uses' his nib: it was he who used
to write those attractive “Mirror of Justice”
articles in the Telegraph. The new Judge
is still so youthful in appearance (for which
you can blame the blue-eyed lady, best known
as Ethel Turner, who pours out his tea)
that his 48 summers sit as lightly as canaries
on his horsehair.
Four members of the Curlewis family
were in the Landing on April 25, 1915.
Three paid the price of their valor, and
Captain Gordon, Sergeant Arthur and Cor-
poral Selwyn sleep in Turkish sod. The
fourth, Lieut. George, afterwards twice
wounded, has been invalided home. Since
that tragic day Lieut. Kenneth Curlewis
was killed in Gallipoli. Flight-Lieut.
Stephen, of the same clan, has just been
reported “prisoner of war in Germany.” So
if you congratulate the new Judge on his
wig, he’ll probably tell yon that he’s far
prouder of something else.
Though Mrs. Cur-
lewis protests that
she, not having been
elevated to the
bench, need not send
you her photo, here
is one I stole for the
occasion. Better
known to juveniles
on both sides of the
equator as “Ethel
Turner,” her first
book, “Seven Little
A u s t ralian s,”
brought her fame.
Since that happy
day, one doubts if
anything worse than
a caterpillar in a
lettuce-leaf has ever
troubled a literary
life which runs on velvet tyres. She
works hard with her pen, and is
persistently busy for every cause that
helps the Australian soldier. She can play
hard, too, as you’d soon find out if you
were on the opposite side of a tennis net.
Quite innocent of “swank” in any shape, the
sweet-natured little woman is easily one of
the most popular of Australia’s writer’s.
The Italian Opera Co. was so busy on Satur-
day unpacking its duds —the same old duds
—that it fell into action without concerning
itself much about mere house management.
Consequently some press people begged their
way from door to door, and were finally per-
mitted to take what they could get, pegging
out selections for themselvel at the back of the
cavernous d.c. Dr. Marano was a lone figure
in a desert of box. What might be in the
stalls couldn’t be told from the d.c. hinter-
land. The Gonsalez aviary has leased the
Opera House from the Fuller proprietary—
hence the muddle. Cappelli, under millinery
that waved a yard of ostrich feather, clasped
his Leonora rather gingerly to his bosom —
the lady, Mrs. de Revers, has lungs of 40
h.p., and needs space to let it go. Most of
“Trovatore,” Saturday night’s opera, is per-
formed in twilight gloom. Perhaps that is
why a wise management so often chooses it
for"a rushed opening performance.
Slim Tom Heney, who edits the Herald,
had the bad luck to break a bone in his leg
by simply stepping into a dry ditch. But
the thing has knitted quickly, and he comes
back to town this week. The Heneys’ Moss
Vale home* by the way, was built by the
late William Owen after the style of the old
Shropshire house where he was born. The
Heneys’ contribution has been the garden,
which they have made into the sort of thing
most people can’t even dream about.
Artist Gruner is back from his Barraba
painting excursion—for a week or two, any-
how. And now I want him (or somebody)
to go along the North Coast —right up to
Tweed Heads. Take the stile over the
border fence, and then loaf at Coolangatta
until a setting sun turns a wonderful beach
into a floor of burnished gold. There are
whole galleries of unpainted pictures from
Port Macquarie to the Queensland border —
and still more, I expect, past it.
There’s a wave of warm sympathy for
John Lane Mullins and his wife. They lost
their only son, a lieut. in the Royal Horse
Artillery, during the June offensive. The
young soldier was going to be an engineer
till the llun ran amok and blighted Europe.
He was only 23.
Dr. Anderson, Bishop of Riverina, lost one
of his boys, Gapt. Ralph, in the recent push,
lie had been over two years in khaki before
he got his fatal wound.
For long, long years the State school
kiddy watched the waving baton of Hugo
Alpen. About the hardest kind of choir
this is to conduct —the restless juvenile
array of knickerbockers and pinnies. But
Alpen had a way with the child, and it
piped its best when the old music-master’s
shock of whitening hair wagged in the fore-
ground. Now he has crossed to the Un-
known, and if there is no choir there to
handle he will feel horribly lonely.
Something off the beaten orange-blossom
track occurred at Menangle camp the other
day. The bride, a Mosman girl, Jean Miller,
accepted a plain gold ring from Lieut. Wise-
man, of the Camel Corps, in a tent decked
with flowers. It wasn’t all as smooth and
easy as it sounds. In the first place, bride
and ’groom rode to the altar on a camel, and
that gave rather a bumpy start to the pro-
ceedings. Chaplain Black tied the knot, and
bridesmaids Flo Laverty and Zelma Robert-
son were ready at the right moment. Cap-
tain Betts and Lieut. Gavin were in reserve.
The wedding-march was supplied by the
Light Horse band. The shortest of honey-
moons, and then the well-blazed trail to the
Front for one of them.
Major Alan Steele, of Duntroon, has won
a promise from a Sydney girl, Kathleen
Pooley. She is a niece of Austin Chapman,
M.11.R. The Queensland soldier is lately
back after two years’ service. He was one
of the first of the Duntroon cadets, and was
off and away with the first lot. Now he is
an instructor at his old college.
Lieut. Rollo Williams weds Enid Lloyd
some time in July. The bride is a daughter
of the assistant embarkation officer, Cap-
tain Lloyd. The ’groom hopes to return to
the Front later on.
Frank Downes, a handsome young Queens-
lander who was blinded in the first struggle
for Gallipoli, was married at Singleton the
other day. The girl, Marjory White, is a
daughter of late parson J. E. White, of those
parts.
Have you seen those delicate frivolities, col-
lapsible boxes for toilet things? They fold
flat for packing, and bound open when you
want them to house your complexion para-
phernalia. As money-spinners they count.
Mrs. Herbert Clarke, of Burradoo, with
Gladys Hay to help, has been lately sending
£lO a month to the War Chest —all the pro-
ceeds of country sales of these cardboard
vanities. On June 28-29 they have a show
at Beard-Watson’s.
Chaplain Baker, who used to read the
Word in St. Peter’s, Woolloomooloo, writes
from France about the alluring diversity of
War Chest comforts. The fund sent over
the Channel some fine gramophone records of
St. Paul’s Christmas carols. Australian
soldiers downed forks in the middle of their
last Christmas meal to listen to these London
choristers, and —typical of the lively Kanga-
roo—to cheer vociferously at the finish.
Half-a-erown will admit you to the d
rated motor-parade on July 13. Address t
joint hon. secs., Motor Competition, car
Red Cross, 4 Bridge-street, in the above
silvery language, if you want to win a uve-
guinea prize. The cars are to line up n
the Inner Domain. After rumbling rouna
the city they will pull up (oh. the subtlenes..
of these serpents!) at the Customs House,
Circular Quay. Will drop, that is to say,
into the jaws of the Red Cross lion, whic
rages here in the shape of a coffee-stall
Miss Eadith Walker in charge. Any motor
man who gets away with threepence will be
a millionaire. Rupert Minnett, of the Auto.
Club, is hon. sec.
June brings the second number of Art in
Australia, edited by Bertram Stevens and
Syd Ure Smith. The second number is
so much ahead of the first that it is worth
an extra half-crown instead of the shilling
more the publishers are asking. Hardy
Wilson’s flicker of light and shade in deli-
cate pencil drawings, a rare springtime
idyll by Conder (pink peach-blossom and
geese in thanksgiving attitude), B. E. Minns
represented by a beauty with her head tied
up in a pink scarf —besides these offerings
Streeton, Lionel Lindsay, Julian Ashton,
lleysen, Lloyd Rees (a Queenslander) and
Dave Low contribute to a glowing ensemble.
If ever you run out of names for your
heroines turn thankfully, my dear, to the
Victorian Government Gazette for June
21. It contains the list of 2000 barmaids
registered recentlv by our neighbor’s Secre-
tary for Labor, who harshly withholds the
damsels’ addresses. Here are some of “their
heart-remembered names”: —
Ursula, Estelle, Thyra, Rosetta, Valetta, Angelina,
Justina, Lorna, Paulina, Pansy, Pearl, Irene, Gwen,
Daisy, Ivy, Meta, Eugenie, Pecellia, Lynda, Violet,
Fayette, Nerada, Arabelle, Phyllis, Olive, Rheta,
Celesta, Clotilde, Winifred, W.vda, Daphne, Lavinia,
Sadie, Thelma, Frederica, Myrtle, Asta, Etna, Delvon,
Dominica, Alison, Nilla, Juanita, Sydia, Beulah,
Bodelia, Isa, Tulip, Easter, Bridie, Amanda, Anita,
Cynthia, Melanie.
“Etna” is evidently what the boys call “hot
stuff.” One girl, the unusualness of whose
surname called for comment, murmured with
a bewitching smile that she was open to
consider any reasonable offer to change it.
Mrs. Macneil Simpson blew back from
Brisbane just in time to be hit by the. news
that brother Harold Jaques had lost his left
leg and two fingers in France. His return
to this continent is arranged; but whether
his Parliamentary ambitions will grow again
isn’t known yet.
Two Australian women who fled to Nice
after the last English winter write out dole-
fully about the admirable kitchen economy
of the French. They admit that their
figures are benefiting, but add that they
haven’t “eaten hearty” for a long, long time.
The arrival of a food ship is a subject for
restrained rejoicing, even amongst the in-
habitants of tall and expensive hotels, and
the papers have clean forgotten the adver-
tiser with a cure for “that full feeling after
meals.”
The Ist and 53rd Battalion dames have
struck a new idea —a Village Fair to gather
Christinas comforts. Early in August St.
James’s Ilall will be as truly rural as cir-
cumstances permit. In that neighborhood it
should at least be easy to get plenty of
wigs for the green.
Neutral Bay will be invaded by a bat-
talion of the Knox family and Mrs. Colin
Stephen on July 13. Our Best People are
planning heavy counter-attacks against the
north side of the Harbor, and McMahon’s
Point will be aglitter with bright eyes, new
saucepans, and the same old money-getting
wiles.
In the Jap shop near Her Majesty’s Mrs.
Shimizu’s gift, two gorgeous kimonos, are
to be raffled at a shilling a time. You can
take your choice of going to the bath in
sky-blue silk embroidered in pink cherry
blossoms, or of out-Shebaing the late Queen
of Sheba in scarlet and gold flecked with
purple.
Organisers of patriotic shows have their
troubles. When the affair comes to a head
—like this week’s matinee, for instance—
and our Best People have graciously pro-
mised their presence, two-thirds of the dam-
sels more or less interested want to sell pro-
grammes. Failing that, flowers and sweets.
At the stern decree of a heartless manage-
ment, only a round dozen are chosen. Then
a disgruntled score or two spend the Sabbath
detailing their wrongs to the telephone and
the afternoon tea-cake.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
JEWELLERS.
WEDDING PRESENTS
IN THE HICHEST QUALITY SILVER-PLATE.
New Design Plain Oblong Entree Dish, with Handle
at end. The Lid can be used as Separate Dish.
Length, 9A>n.
£2 17 6
A COPY OF THE
COMPANY'S
11/LUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
SENT POST FREE
ON REQUEST.
SELECTIONS OF
GOODS CAN BE
SENT TO THE
COUNTRY ON
APPROVAL IF
DESIRED.
FIVE PER CENT.
DISCOUNT
ALLOWED ON
ALL CASH
PURCHASES.
Revolving Hot Water Dish, with Loose Dish ana
Strainer and Patent Handles. Can be used for soup,
fish or entree.
£8 0 O
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINCTON STREET, LONDON, W.
START PHOTOGRAPHY
with the BOX FORM ENSIGN
Daylight Loading for Roll Films.
Si
The outstanding feature of this grand little camera
is its extreme simplicity, a few minutes’ demonstra-
tion, which we will be pleased to give to any
purchaser, being all that is necessary in order to
enable the beginner—who may not have the slightest
knowledge of photography —to take photos.
There are no focussing troubles to contend with -
the focus is fixed —all you have to do is to hold
the camera towards the view or object to be photo-
graphed, see that it is shown in the view-finder, and
make the exposure.
It is made for use with Roll Films, which can be
loaded into the camera, or taken out of it, in broad
daylight, the body of the camera oeing of wood,
covered Black Leatherette, with Black Metal Fit-
tings. .
It has two view-finders —one for taking upright
pictures, the other for taking oblong, Rapid Achro-
matic Lens, and Kver-set bnrnter tor time and
instantaneous exposures. Made in three
No. 2 14 A takes photos 2] x2l in.
roll of 6 exposures.
No. takes photos 21 x 31 in.
roll of (> exposures.
No. z't>2 takes photos 2$ x 4] in.
sizes, as under :
Price, 6/-. Films to suit above, 7d. per
Price, 11/-. Films to suit above, lOd. per
Price, 14/-. Films to suit above, 1/1 per
roll of (i exposures.
No. 3U takes pbotos 3} x 4J in. Price, 19/6. Films to suit above, 1/0 per
roll of 0 exposures.
Call and let us show you how easy it is to use—if you live out of town send for
our illustrated catalogue and photographic handbook. It will be posted free tq any
address.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
and Other Metal Workers can depend on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical and Assay Department, 57-59 George Street North.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys, in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (3 lines).
LT?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 George St. 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
Look for the word
“PIANOLA”
IT is the Pianola that most people have in mind
when they set out to buy a player-piano. For
this is the only instrument of the type
approved by the music profession the world’s
leading musicians and music educators.
Yet, through a mere confusion of terms, it some-
times happens that people who think they are
buying the Pianola, actually secure, instead, a less
known and inferior instrument.
The Cause for Confusion
The word “Pianola” has become so well-known—
has attained such celebrity that many people
suppose it to be a term for all so-called “player-
pianos.”
Very few of the Pianola’s imitators care to correct
this mistake. Hence, if one does not learn the truth
before he buys, he may purchase any player-piano
and believe, until it is too late, that he has bought
the genuine Pianola.
Learn the Truth Now
"Pianola” does not mean any player-piano. It is a trade-
mark—the name of an instrument made only by the
Pianola Company—the largest manufacturers of musical
instruments in the world and pioneers of the player
industry.
The Pianola offers musical values and musical enjoyment
impossible with any other instrument.
It is not a “Pianola” unless the word “PIANOLA’ is
actually on it.
The genuine Pianola can be obtained only in the
following world-famous Pianos: The Steinway,
Steck, Stroud. Aeolian, and the English-made
Weber.
It is not necessary to pay cash to secure a Pianola, our
easy terms of payment consisting of a moderate deposit,
and monthly instalments, bring the Pianola within reach
of all buyers.
If unable to call, write for new
Pianola Catalog. We will gladly
mail a copy free of postage.
(BWj^
s
if 15
II
JfJ*
LIS
1
To the PIANOLA COMPANY,—
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
showing how I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can make on my present piano,
which is a
Bought about
Name
Address
The PIANOLA COMPANY
384 George Street, SYDNEY,
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and ADELAIDE.


Smart Felts at Farmer’s
for Comfort
and Service
S.R. 9 —SOFT FELTS, with cut edges;
brims IV\ in.; colors, light grey with black
band, slate, fawn, brown, green.
Prices - • • 12/6, 15/6, 25/-
STETSON'S, this shape. Price, 39/6
S.R. 10
SOFT FELT, with stitched turn overedges;
colors, light grey (black band), slate, brown,
fawn. Prices, 14/6. 16/6, 21/-
FARMER’S Pitt, Market, George Streets. SYDNEY
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy*
Melbourne, 21st June, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Secondhand
15in. to 18in. Gravel Pump, for
Flinders Naval Base, Victoria.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 18th July, 1917, for
the supply and delivery of one Secondhand
15in. to 18in. Gravel Pump, suitable for
direct coupling.
Tenderers are to forward with their ten-
der full particulars of pump offered.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Gravel
Pump” on top left-hand corner of envelope
and addressed to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts. Navy Office, Melbourne.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
fas
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY TO
APPOINTMENT H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE l/“ PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
df
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, June 25, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Federal Government House is thinking
seriously about private theatricals —just a
little show in the State drawing-room. The
idea may grow into an Ibsen or Shaw play,
and Lady Susan may act. She is quite good
at the game.
Lady Helen opened the fine new hall at
the Girls’ Grammar one day lately. All the
pupils, dressed in white, and trying hard to
look as innocent as their most virginal
aunt would like them to be, were in the
front seats, while mothers and people of that
sort herded at the back. The platform fairly
groaned beneath its sainted load, which in-
cluded Archbish. Wright, Archbisli. Clarke
(whose calves looked almost as beautiful as
Julius Knight’s used to), Dean Godby, Trin-
ity College Leeper and others who are paid
large salaries for being good. Headmistress
Gilwan Jones looked as good as any of them.
Lady Helen talked about the sort of super-
girl she hoped the school would produce,
made incidental references to Shakspeare,
Raleigh, Drake, J. Cade and others, and then
distributed last year’s prizes—which natu-
rally had to be imported, and were conse-
quently delayed. I didn’t hear Lady Helen
say anything about that.
The Stanleys have been entertaining Cyril
Maude. He had an introduction to her Ex.
from a mutual friend in England—one of the
Kembles. Lady Stanley, it seems), is a
descendant of Mrs. Siddons and the
Kembles. Curiously enough, Lady Helen
Ferguson has Sheridan in her family tree.
Mrs. Sep Miller is mourning the loss of
her brother, Lieut. A. P. Henderson, killed
in France. The young soldier was a partner
in the firm of Wilson, Bishop and Hender-
son. Dr. Leslie Henderson, of Wangaratta,
is a brother.
Corporal Allan Mackenzie, killed on June
7, was brother to the Jack Moffatt and
Bertie Austin (Western District) matrons,
both of whom have boys in khaki. Bob
Austin sends a coo-ee saying he has soared
to the rank of lieutenant.
Many will mourn for Lieut. Andy Reid,
the tall elder son of Newman Reid. Andy
carried off heaps of Melbourne Grammar’s
athletic laurels, won the ice-skating cham-
pionship and was a spoyt in every sense.
Lieut. Athol Teare, who got the Military
Cross lately, spent several years in England
and Amurka learning voice-production. His
only two brothers, Phil and Jack, are also
in khaki, and Jack has likewise landed a
Cross. The family, which originated in the
Isle of Man, seems to make a specialty of
these things. A sister, Lyn, in between her
painting practice, is an assiduous Red
Crosser.
Lieut. Patrick Maxwell, R.N., who has
gained the Cross of the Legion of Honor for
services rendered in the Cameroons, is well
known in these parts. The late Wigram
Allen was his grand-dad, and though the
young man (well, 30 is young, isn’t it?) was
born and educated in England, Australia has
had his best attention. Some years ago,
when the Admiralty was conducting a survey
of the Solomon Islands sea-neighborhood, and
now and again helping a missionary out of
trouble with the natives, Maxwell was among
those present, and used to come ashore at
Sydney for a good time. It was here he
married an Australian girl, his papa-in-law
being Dr. Leeper, warden of Trinity. Lieut.
Maxwell went river-navigating in the Cam-
eroons at the very beginning of the war, and
the French Cross is some recompense for a
long stay on a hot, nasty, dank, smelly job.
Nowadays he is in the North Sea.
Russel Chirnside, younger of the Hodges
matron’s sons, came down from his Western
District sheep acres last month to get into
khaki. Brother Gordon, who got away with
the first lot, now decorates General Bird-
wood’s staff. He wears the Military Medal
and the Legion of Honor.
Mrs. Rupert Downes, who voyaged to
Egypt to join her doctor husband, is steam-
ing homewards. Her trip was saddened by
the loss of only brother Jack, who was killed
in action the week she reached Cairo.
Effie Ball, one of the rich drapery family,
has bought a gilt Louis the something-or-
other suite for her Cliveden flat. The old
French vanity was used in the first magnifi-
cent Melbourne production of “Sweet Nell.”
The fashion of colored fabrics for brides
is in favor in London. Esther Fairbairn, of
S. Yarra, wore golden brocade trimmed with
ivory fur, and had a tulle veil over her
Titian hair, when she took the name of
Wheatley at Brompton lately.
11. J. Curie, author of “The Shadow
Show,” is in Melbourne after a keep-it-very-
quiet visit to Sydney. Curie took a leading
part in the Thrift campaign in England,
which resulted in 70 millions in small savings
being invested in Government stock, and he
has been talking about war finance here to
the war financiers. Of course, he is no
stranger to Australia. In the long past he
got some of his schooling at Geelong.
Flour-miller Gillespie and his wife gave
a dinner party lately at their Glenferrie
home. A guest of honor was Gunner Wall,
a Scotch soldier from Edinbro via the
Malay Straits. The Wellington Westleys,
who made a habit of mayoring Hawthorn
and Malvern, occupied two chairs, and im-
presario Fuller and his wife two more. The
lady was a slender young vision amongst
two acres of bunched glac6. The hostess
had her shell-pink chiffon embroidered with
silk-pink roses. Tenor Lois came late and
sang to Kirby’s accompaniment. Kirby sang
till the Italian arrived, and then gracefully
gave over the floor to the new man. Mrs.
Lois, in white net flounces and high-heeled
shoes, showed everybody a duck of an Italian
two-step. Mr. and Mrs. Busst were there,
and Mrs. Busst smote the piano.
Sam Maekay and wife had an excited and
talkative little luncheon party at Menzies’
the other day, when they entertained Mr.
Turner—the delightful stranger with the
wavy hair, who turns out to be Cyril Maude’s
partner and his stage manager. The
Mackays were particularly interested in his
news from abroad, because it was he who
(as stage manager) took daughter Elsie to
America for her tour in “Grumpy.” Elsie
is having such a good time abroad that she
had the heart to refuse the part of the grand-
daughter in “Grumpy” this trip. Mrs.
Turner is not travelling with her husband.
She is busy, like Mrs. Cyril Maude, on hos-
pital work in England.
The other Sunday afternoon, as a prelim-
inary to Thrift Week, Mrs. Herbert Power
hostessed a huge afternoon tea frivol for the
Best, with a judicious sprinkling of Second
Best. The little Beauchamp-Neil widow
and the Murray Jones girl sang in the best
parlor, and another of the first social battle
squadron raked the teeth of the grand piano.
Amongst the winter chiffonery fluttered a
handful of black-coated males (non-eligible,
of course), all wearing that dazed and apolo-
getic “What-the-deuce-am-I-here-for?” ex-
pression. Little Victor Hood and burly
Judge Johnston helped with the icecreams
and buns. The Judge has lost the anxious
frown he was wearing before his only son,
Medical-Captain Billy, M.C., was reported off
the sink-list.
Melbourne Hunt Club race-meeting, billed
for Moonee Valley, was removed from the
week’s programme by torrents of rain and
a wowser wind that shrieked across the
Valley.
The pretty, flame-haired Fitzpatrick girl,
daughter of the railway chieftain, with the
help of some of her pals gave a jolly little
dance at Gregoi’y Hall last week in aid of
the Anzac Buffet. It is the Cause of the
hour, and the Ross Soden widow is helping
it with a bridge party of 500 at Grong
Grong on July 5.
Melba is arranging a big Town Hall
party for the French National Day, July 14.
She herself will sing three songs, and the
G.-G. has promised to speak.
Sister Adelaide’s confessions :
The last batch of war honors brought pride to a
good number of S. Australian homes. There was a
bar to his D.S.O. for Major Loutit, a D.S.O. for Capt.
Somerville (who already had the Military Cross), a
bar to the M.C. for two of our lieutenants, and 15
additional Military Crosses. One of the last-named
was for Capt. H. Seager, who enlisted with his two
brothers in August, 1914, and was a transport-officer
at the Gallipoli landing. His mother was one of
the founders of the Cheer-Up Society, and still puts
in long hours a day at the Hut. Grandad was a
lieutenant in the Light Brigade when it made the
mad charge at Balaklava.
After much argument the State is to have a ChiL
dren’s Magistrate, and G. W. Halcombe is the man for
the billet. He is South Aus. by birth, the son of
Frederick Halcombe, Clerk of Parliaments. In 1893
he took his law degree with honors at Oxford, and on
returning to Adelaide was associate to the late
Judge Bundey. Since then he has been practising. He
is one of the founders of that useful institution the
Boys’ Brigade.
Gawler has decided that the Barossa electorate’s
memorial to the late Ephraim Coombe, M.L.A., shall
be an infectious-diseases section for the local hos-
pital. That reminds me of a rest-room for the
women teachers of the Marryatville school, which was
opened on Saturday. It is a memorial to the “old
scholars who made the supreme sacrifice in the
great war.” Mr. and Mrs. Fordham (one of their
sons was killed in France and the other died in
Egypt) were responsible for the idea, which was
promptly worked up by E. T. Smith, knight. A
pity that all memorials cannot take as practical a
form.
Pte. Russell Chaffey, second son of C. F. Chaffey,
who managed Renmark in the days of the Chaffey
Brothers, has been killed on the West Front. He
and two brothers enlisted from Vancouver. The
youngest was killed while charging with the Cana-
dians at Ypres; the eldest won the Military Cross.
That’s the awesome luck of it!
The anti-hatpin campaign has started again, and
the tram-travelling female has been warned for the
wth time that it will cost her £lO to display an
inch or so of unsheathed steel. Don’t talk to me
about the liberty of women, my dear 1
The Governor’s projected visit to Yorketown did
not come off. The official welcome was timed for
12.30, but as the Conqueror was then still in mid-
gulf, battling against head winds and big seas, it
was decided to turn tail and run to Glenelg, leaving
the Yorketown trip on the list of future excitements.
Lady Galway, still far from well, is to attend no
public meetings or functions till the end of August,
though she will go on with the routine of Red Cross
and other war work.
C. J. Dennis wasted no time on his Tuesday-to-
Thursday visit here. He said good-bye to his brother
who is bound for the Front, dashed up to Auburn
(which town claims him as a native), and had after-
noon tea at the Cheer-Up Hut, where he gave that
organisation some verses for its “Violet Day Book,’’
for which, by the way, Henry Lawson has written a
foreword.
That witch Rumor is pitter-pattering around the
tea-tables whispering of two thrilling engagements.
The principal of one is a gay clubman who paid us
periodic visits till the war took him to the other
side of the world; and the hero of the other is a
local bachelor who appears to have an ambition to
make a name for himself in public affairs. More
I dare not say at present.
The loyal Australian-German 1 T’other day the
recruiting committee reported that most of the
settlements on the Murray had been practically swept
clean of eligibles, but that in the German-infested
districts plenty of likely soldiers still remained.
Now the committee announces that the organiser of
another district has in several instances had to camp
out for the night, “as in some parts most of the
residents arc Germans, and will not accommodate
the organiser nor assist him.”
Pte. Richard Hanson, killed in France, was a
grandson of the late Chief Justice Hanson. The
soldier’s father died some months ago.
Kitty Tucker, the Professor’s elder daugh-
ter, has booked for the usual orange-blossom
ceremony with Jim, soldier-son of the West-
ern District Selwyn Stewarts. Jim is a
sergeant and wears the D.C.M. The bride-
elect is at present doing war work in
London.
Alison Smith- is just engaged to an old
and faithful admirer in the person of Arthur
Lease, scion of a good old Irish family. His
cousin, Lord Gormanston, was Governor of
Tasmania some years back. Prospective
mother-in-law is Mrs. William Smith, who
in company with Mrs. Bob Blackwood and
Dr. Helen Sexton ran a military hospital
in France for a few months. Their reign
was thrilling, and full of incident, and is
rumored to have had a dramatic ending.
Blue-eyed Hilda Grice (sister of the
handsome Elsa, who made a sensation as
Helen of Troy in patriotic tableaux) has said
“Yes” to Leo Miller, son of Mrs. Albert
Miller, who was wrecked in the Arabia. Date
for the ceremony not yet fixed.
The latest altar-rail recruits are Natalie
Crossman and Hugh Grice —one of the twin
sons of knight John. Natalie is a cousin of
Gordon Lyon, of Banyule. Her mother was
a daughter of the late Magistrate Panton.
A cable is through announcing, the mar-
riage of Mr. Ernest Watt (brother of
Oswald the flier) to a fair young Sydney
girl, widow of a naval man killed in the
Jutland battle. But until she sends me a
wedge of the cake I won’t mention her name.
Mrs. Hope Osborne, of the Sydney-side, a
smart widow with three children, has her
steamer ticket for Monte Video to marry
Captain Norton, a naval man.
Eleanor Leahy, daughter of John Leahy,
one-time Speaker of the Bananaland House,
changed her name recently to McMahon, and
is at present honeymooning at Menzies’. She
and her husband spend their days in a car
which is as new as the wedding-ring. Pre-
sently they are to take up housekeeping in
one of the new Clapp flats.
Melba entertained Cyril Maude at the
Eastern Hill Conservatorium last week.
When the modest actor reached the place he
found two flights of white-robed angels wait-
ing on the branched staircase to receive him.
Melba then demonstrated how she teaches
the girls and switched on the lovely voices
of some star pupils. Stella Power was, of
course, the show seraph. For her Melba
prophesies £lOO a week in a year pr two.
Harold Elvins has arranged a short pro-
gramme of exquisite quality for Friday even-
ing at the V.A.S. Galleries. The Melbourne
Music Club is responsible, and Melba has
given her blessing. English and French
composers only.
Doris Madden, pianiste, had an evening
recital at Melba Hall lately, and though
the weather was wet she drew everybody,
including the G.G. and Lady Helen. The
vice-regal pair toasted their feet at the radi-
ators while they listened. University big
guns came along to applaud and the Maddens
were present in force. They have “taken up”
niece Doi’is since her pronounced success.
She looks awfully like Uncle John about the
lower jaw when she gets wrestling with big
chords.
Melba is bestowing her blessing and pre-
sence upon home-made grand opera at The
Playhouse on Saturday, July 7, and Tues-
day, July 10. The first evening it is to be
“Ruth and Naomi” (composer Fritz Hart) ;
on the Tuesday, “Dido and JEneas.” The
Monday and Wednesday have been marked
off for Gluck’s “Iphigenia in Aulis.” There
will be a full orchestra and a chorus of 60
Conservatorium voices.
Betty Paterson carried off the coveted
D.M.S.V. for violin theory and harmony
some years ago, but is pinning her hopes of
a career to her voice. She makes her first
appearance at The Playhouse on Thursday.
July 26, in the presence of vice-royalty and
the most august Sassiety dames.
Anne Williams and Harold Smith gave a
joint recital in the cosy Melba Hall last
week. (Melbourne has been saturated with
music lately, and is still under the shower.)
Naiee people in correct dress came and
toasted their toes at the radiators. Anne
had on a champagne brocade gown with a
stiff belt of banked daisies and flimsy-looking
sleeves. She was presented with a canary
which immediately broke into ragtime and
was removed from the platform.
Cyril Maude is making a habit of the
curtain speech, though he remarks in his
most intensely-English mannah : “We don’t
do it in England.” Tittell Brune once
annoyed your Johanna by making the identi-
cal farewell speech in Sydney (big tears and
all) that she had made in Melbourne a few
weeks before. Cyril Maude goes one better.
He worked oft a racy speech on the first
night, and then made the inartistic mistake
of repeating it at further performances
during the week.
The Cherniavskys are maturing. There is
great body and flavor in their playing now,
and Leo has just acquired an old fiddle of
exceeding mellowness. Dolores was one of
a delighted audience on Thursday. Max
Selinsky also listened with joy, and the
Russian lecturess, Mrs. Grebin, sat with
Mrs. Ivanoff. The pretty little widow
Roberts made a glow where the light fell on
her auburn hair, and Dr. Ivlatcliko related
stories of the young musicians’ early youth
in Petrograd. (The old friend’s memory
never gives out and his stories have no time-
limit.)
Allan Wilkie and wife Frediswyde got a
warm welcome-back from a full house at
the Princess’s on Saturday night. The Pitts
had a box, the miller Gillespies had a party,
and the John Fullers had a pen. The Grants
from Warrnambool way were in town for
the week-end, so Mrs. Grant dangled some
diamond ear-rings to the envy of the dress-
circle. The Mills pair (Gippsland) looked
subdued in outdoor tweeds in the stalls.
(It had been a cold, blustery day for the
Caulfield try-out of Grand National starters
that afternoon.) Mrs. Talbot sat in the
midst of acres of passementerie trimming
and looked after a sweet little flapper in
pink and a Maoriland complexion. Miss
Nea was in front for a change. She lan-
guished in the circle in an ivory white gown
and brought her pet Japanese tortoise to the
show. It stood the test.
Miss Watts wears different clothes for
melodrama, but retains her Shakspearian
voice. As the Princess she bewails her
father’s harshness in a robe of three layers
of lily-white silk, heaps of pearls and a
rosary. She defies him in a magnificent
black cloak embroidered criss-cross in gold.
This also serves as the wedding-gown at
the midnight ceremony. Pretty little Elwyn
Harvey gets into some ducky flapper frocks
all pale pinks and blues. She always has shoes
and, isiik stockings to match, and weeps
noisily and naturally and with no apparent
reddening of her nose.
Anyone who has a spare piano or some
superfluous chairs can do a good deed by
sending them to the Braille Writers’ Asso-
ciation. Secretary Millicent Ritchie has
helped to organise some entertainments for
the blind, and if the piano and chairs are
forthcoming the little shows will take place
every fortnight.
At an auction sale in aid of the Anzac
Buffet Barney Allen caused great joy when
he bought tw r o hams for £ll. At the same
sale Barry Lupino also raised a roar by
buying a baby’s petticoat and working off
some very domestic patter. Lupino is in-
teresting Melbourne at present with advance-
agent jokes of this sort.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


BY ROYAL WARRANT
K 05
0L
MS


FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
1/6 ALL CHEMISTS.
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
%
asdf
asd
absolwtexyW
King
fieotgelV"
WHISKS'
The TOPNOTCHScotch
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
LEISURE.
TRAVELLER : “But think of all the time an
incubator would save you."
HEN COCKY: “Oh, them fowls ain't rushed
for time."
TIME AND TIDE.
WIFE: "Oh, George, George, what time of the morning is this to come home?"
GEORGE : “ Can’t help it, m’dear; it getsh late s'early thish time o' the year?"
“Rodent”: “Montalex” (B. 17/5/17) is
very much mistaken when he states that the blue-
black rat has not made good in Sydney. It has,
and for the last two outbreaks of plague in the Ma,
State it was mainly responsible. At present the
species is fairly numerous in the city stores and
warehouses. “Montalex” states that the blue-black
animal is nearly exterminated by the grey Norway.
1 can assure “Montalex” that in Sydney it is quite
i iie teverse. as the blue-black - and his brother the
black are slowly but surely wiping out the grey rat.
Any professional rat-catcher knows that.
“Musketoon” : The load of 330 bags of wheat
drawn into Gawnain, and mentioned by “Navvy” (1?.,
31/5/'l7), does not make me get under the home.
Has “Navvy” ever heard of Charlie Grieve, of
Mylandra, Forbes (N.S.W.) ? In February, 1909, he
stuck 331 bags on his waggon, “The Queenslander.”
and broke every culvert between Mylandra and
forties. Ihis lot weighed 33 tons, something better
than Arthur Hetherington’s 25 tons 7cwt 3qr., men-
tioned bv “Navvy.” In the Grenfell end of the
lorbes district that year was a carrier named
Tommy the Priest, who was the first to load more
than 200 bags on his waggon. It was when Tommy
made a claim for the big-load prize that Charlie
Grieve started on his culvert-breaking, road-destrov-
ing, beast-straining career. Later in the year Tommy
stacked 336 bags on his waggon and started after
Charlie s scalp j but just as his bullocks commenced
to test the jewellery his waggon collapsed. There-
fore Charlie Grieve is nominated by me as the grand
champion fool-load' carrier of Australia. Anyone
to beat him has to stack up over 33 tons, bearing in
mind that in 1909 they were all four-bushel bags,
and not Chapman sacks. The days of big-load
carrying are done at Forbes now 7 , because Jemalong
Shiie Council got tired of spending money every
month repairing the culverts that flash idiots hail
broken, and limited the weight of loads.
The Possum” ; Jan Grube, deaf as a post,
had a sluicing claim up Adelong way. The ground
was 10ft. in the face with 18 inches of payable
wash, a soft bottom and a sweet little “sugar-
vein” running north and south. Jan stood in his
gum-boots one June morning looking at a tall, dry
gum-tree dangerously near the bank, and partly
undermined in the last run of the nozzle. “Dot dree
must gome down,” mused Jan. “Mighd I ged a
uugged oonter him like pefore.” All sluicers regard
a tree as a mascot, strangely enough. Jan turned
right-about, and stood a few' minutes stocktaking,
with his eyes towards the tail-race. Presently down
came the great tree, and, when the splash and
general commotion were past, there stood the old
digger fairly in the centre of the first narrow fork,
trembling from the shock, but unscratched;
“Pick”: Two rare N. S. Wales snakes not
mentioned by “11.V.E.” (B. 17/5/T7) are the broad-
headed and the golden varieties, the former a swamp
denizen of the South Coast and the latter a river
snake of the Kydra and Kybean. The broadhead,
named from his abnormal width of javv and thin
neck, has an irregular pattern of black, grey and
green scales, and differs from other crawlers in the
stubbiness of his tail. He is venomous, alftl when he
NO PLACE LIKE HOME.
BROWN : “I lilcesh you, Jonesh; I likesj yon.
NO wunner you’re so hie-stremely pop'-
lar!”
JONES: "Hie ’smarrellous 'ow soon it ends,
though, Brown (hie) —shoonsh feller
getsh home.”
rears his threatening length among the reeds to dis-
pute the passage of the duck-hunter he is an ugly
obstruction. The golden snake belongs to the whip
species. When matured he spans over 6ft., but his
slimness permits him to hide in narrow rock fissures
f, 1 ' He > too > is aggressive and deadly.
H.V.E., ’ by the way, seems in doubt concerning the
harmlessness of some snakes he has met. It is a
matter easily decided. The venomous species invari-
ably has less than eight labial plates on either side—
that is, oblong scales surmounting the upper jaw.
the non-venomous always has eight or more. Now,
anybody can tell whether to go round a reptile or
merely kick him out of the track.
(Continued on page 24.;
BOGANDILLON'S SWEEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vou’ve never heard that yarn about old Bogandillon
Jack,
Ihe hardest case that ever cadged for hand-outs on
a track?
A\ ell, put the jack-shay on that stump and get vour
pipe alight,
And stir those yarran logs, because it’s fairly cold
to-night.
Now, Jack had folks in Ireland, and always once a
year
He’d get a big remittance that he’d promptly “blew”
in beer.
And all along the Lachlan, right from Booligul to
Parkes,
Kach publican would try to save him from the other
sharks
A week or so before his cheque was listed to arrive ;
And artful were the strategems these gentry would
contrive
To lure him to their shanties, and they’d travel hard
and far—•
There was fifty pounds clear profit when his cheque
flopped on the bar.
Now, strange to say, before he’d start to blew his
money up,
A fiver he’d invest with Tatt.’s in tickets for the
Oup,
Despite expostulations that ’twas money thrown
away.
Said Jack: “My luck is bound to changie. I’ll draw
a horse some day,”
And when his spree was ended down the track he’d
hump his swag,
AVith those tickets, and a bottle, stowed inside his
tucker-bag.
And in all the months that followed he would tramp
the shanties through,
And sometimes take a billet just to earn a pound or
two.
He’d “class” at Gunneguldrie, muster sheep on Bur-
rawang,
Or cook for old “King Sockem” till his “pois’ner”
came along.
And always in the hut at night old Jack would tell
the crowd
He’d some day win a sweep, and then he’d do the
Lachlan proud.
The drovers on the stock routes, every traveller on
the road,
Had heard of Jack, and on his boast no courtesy
bestowed.
The story of the sweep he’d win became a standing
joke;
But Jack kept buying tickets, getting tight and
going broke.
Then one hot Sunday morning, when Condobolin
tossed, awake,
And wondered, in the swelter, when the drought was
going to break,
AVe heard the Hillston mailman lash his horse? up
the ridge,
And swing his battered thoroughbrace across the
Lachlan bridge;
AVe heard the shanghai creaking as the horses fairlv
raced,
And marvelled at the reason for this most unusual
haste.
But soon we learned, for Buckley yelled: “You
scrouchers, here, get up,
Old Bogandillon Jack has drawn the favorite for the
Cup.”
AVe looked for Jack inside the coach, expecting him
to shout,
Considerably amazed at his reluctance to get out.
But our surprise was very quickly altered to dismay
To hear he was at Roto, and had said that there
he’d stay
Until he’d drawn his money—if by chance the
favorite won—
And that no alluring promises could make him leave
the run.
The startling news was circulated soon around the
town,
AVe talked of it in blankies as we tossed our liquor
down,
And as we speculated on the luck of this old wreck,
And wondered, too, what publican would chance to
catch his cheque,
Old Dalj', of the Shearers’ Arms, the roughest shanty
there,
Started racing down the river with a buggy and a
pair.
How he captured Bogandillon is a story on its own,
For all along the river were the gladsome tidings
known ;
And every shantv-keeper from Gilgunnia to the Lake
Had sent a man to get him, but old Daly grabbed
the stake.
Their entry to Condobolin was a triumph in its way,
I* ol ! crowd that went to meet them was a wonder-
ful array.
And Jack informed the gathering that, although his
cash just then
AV’as a non-existent item, he’d have full and plenty
when
The favorite proved successful, and because there
was no doubt
Of this, his friend and patron had agreed to let him
shout.
We had the drink, and learned of what the publican
had done;
How he'd agreed to stand to Jack until the race was
run.
Ihe weeks that followed after saw the biggest
jamboree
Ever known along the Lachlan, and as all the drinks
were free
The “whalers” from the Bogan hurried over with
their thirsts
In first-class working order for this daddy of all
bursts.
A score of “emu-bobbers” came a-tramping from the
Bland,
And “hatters” out from Fifield, where there's
platinum in the sand.
Every dead-beat on the stock.-routes, every “bagman”
on the road,
Came racing to Condobolin where the streams of
liquor flowed ;
The loony river campers left the bends they’d held
for years,
And gathered at the township, where they clamored
loud for beers ;
The shearing was suspended and the squatters cursed
and swore,
But Jack continued shouting, and old Daly chalked
the score.
At the other public-houses, too, when Jack would
wander in,
They’d give him credit on the strength of his ex-
pected win.
And when the race was over and the favorite duly
won,
Jack learned that it had cost him just a thousand
for his fun.
The day we got the telegram that told who’d won the
race
Saw scenes of wild excitement, and old Daly set the
pace;
And when that week came to its close we heard him
say to Jack:
“I’ll drive you down to Roto, and I’ll see you safely
back,
As you’ve got to get the ticket from the manager,
McPhail,
And post it down to Tassy by next Sunday morning’s
mail.”
They started out at sundown, and we gave them both
a cheer,
Seeing visions of the future and its seas of foaming
beer.
Well, after their departure we were full of pain and
woe—■
Dry-weather pelicans we were, all thirsting in a row.
Upon the third sad afternoon we watched a dust-
cloud rise
Across the plain on Merriwee, and as we strained our
eyes
We saw a knocked-up buggy team, we heard the
whiplash crack,
We saw old Daly in the trap, but not a sign of Jack.
We heard old Daly cursing long before he reached
the town,
And when he pulled up at the pub we had to lift him
down.
He groped his way into the bar, and from his curses
deep
We slowly learned the awful truth—it knocked us in
a heap-
Old Jack had drawn the favorite right enough, as he
had said,
1 hough not in Tatt.’s, but in a half-crown sweep at
Roto shed I
N.S.W.
GORDON BENNETT.


Murdoch’s
Red Spot
Sale
NOW in FULL SWING
Don't talk about war-time economy—come and practise it.
The Bed Spot General lias reduced prices to a level that makes
conquest easy.
Get into the bargain trendies —no fear of trench feet or cold
purses. The money savings will keep your heart light and
your purses heavy.
NOTE THESE RED SPOT OFFERINGS IN OUR TAILORING
DEPARTMENT. See that you take advantage.
63/ ° and 70/- Tweed Suitings NOW 5819
«
75 1- Cheviot Serge Suitings NOW 67/9
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch's in Park Street, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Please forward patterns of Red. Spot Suit-
ings—-also copy of Red Spot Catalogue at
your earliest.
NAME '
ADDRESS
Get your order in early.
Write for patterns of Bed
Spot Suitings and a copy of
Sale Catalogue—to-day.
FILL IN THIS COUPON
NOW.
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney,
“COMPLETE OUTFITTERS FOR MEN AND BOYS.”
HOTELKEEPERS!
fa
sdfa
When you taste the quality of Soda made
with the Victory Bar Arm, you marvel at
its sparkling brilliancy, clean flavor, and
thorough saturation. Drawn ice-cold on
draught; better than high-priced bottled
soda.
LEMONADE & GINGER ALE, of delici-
ously clean flavor. No sign of any twang,
as present with other makes of machines.
OUR PATENT WATER-FLUSHING
SYSTEM enables all pipes to be thor-
oughly flooded every night by simply turn-
ing on a tap. We absolutely guarantee
Lemonade and Gingerale free from objec-
tionable taste and smell.
SIMPLICITY.—THE VICTORY is the
result of years of experience and the
adaptation of the best Mechanical skill.
We have done away with all springs com-
ing in contact with Soda or Syrup.
We show our confidence in this machine
by covering same with a written guarantee.
PRICE.—Our large factory organisation enables us to offer this leading
Bar Arm at a lower price than any competitor.
On receipt of Postcard we will mail you full particulars.
Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.
219 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Queensland Agents: J. W. Palmer Ltd., Cork Manufacturers and Importers,
Qrey Street, South Brisbane.
Adelaide: Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street.
Perth: A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street.
New Zealand: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets, Wellington.
COOPER
-STAND PORTABLE OUTFIT.
“LITTLE
WONDER”
2-STAND
PORTABLE OUTFIT.
NOW IS THE TIME!
To order that Plant
for Your Coming Shearing
Every owner of 500 or more sheep should have a plant of shearing
machines.
This is the year to buy them.
The increased wool you will obtain with machines, as against
blade shears, at the price of wool this year, will practically pay for
the plant.
Hundreds of wool-growers are installing Cooper Machines after a
most thorough inspection of all other makes.
THERE IS A REASON.
As a result of more than a quarter of a century of constant efforts
towards higher efficiency and lower cost of upkeep, Cooper
Machines are pronounced to-day, by leading contractors
and wool-growers throughout the world, to be the most
practical and the most economical shearing machines pro-
curable.
Our line is complete in every detail. We make a special
machine for every puriJose.
For a 2-stand Portable Outfit the “little Wonder,”
illustrated, is the oldest and most efficient plant of
its kind in the world. More than 1000 are now in use in
Australia; many for more than 10 years.
The 4-stand Portable Outfit, illustrated, is a strong,
substantial, thoroughly practical plant. Dozens of them
are in use in every State in Australia.
If a fixed overhead plant is desired, for erecting, on the
shed, wall, the Cooper Improved Fast and loose Pulley Belt
Drive Machine is the machine to buy. There is absolutely
no possibility of uneven wear—noise or vibration, which is
possible with any Friction Machine after it has been in
use for a short while.
This machine is practically indestructible. It
will last for years, and the cost of upkeep is practi-
cally nil.
If you have sheep to shear write us to-day.
let us send you catalog and full particulars
of an outfit to suit your requirements.
w
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD..
129 Sussex Street, SYDNEY
486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
CLARK & FAUSET, Brisbane. W. HART & SONS,
SCARFE & CO., Perth. AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT
ton, Townsville and Hughenden.
Launceston. SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO., Rockhampton. GEO. P. HARRIS,
&H. F. CO., Adelaide. N. Z. LOAN & MERCANTILE CO., LTD., Rockhamp-


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplieate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSEAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGEE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
THE
see
*35?
i 5^55
- .*■=■-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £650,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: Sip. JOHN GRICE, Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
ACID STOMACHS ARE DANGEROUS.
Nl^'™ NTHS OF all stomach
ILOLBLES SAID TO BE DUE TO
ACIDITY.
A PHYSICIAN’S ADVICE ON CAUSE
AND CURE.
A. famous physician whose successful re-
searches into the cause and cure of stomach
and intestinal diseases have earned for him
an international reputation, said in the
course of a recent lecture, that nearly all in-
e tinal troubles, as well as many diseases of
le vital organs, were directly traceable to
a deranged condition of the stomach, which in
turn was due nine times out of 10 to excess-
aCl f I’ not only irritated and
inflamed the delicate lining of the stomach,
but also set up gastritis and stomach ulcers.
It is interesting to note that he and his col-
leagues have secured remarkable results by
t l e . nse or ordinary bisurated magnesia,
which, by neutralising the acidity of the
ood, removes the source of the trouble. He
contends that it is as foolish to treat the
stomach itself as it would be for a
man who stepped on a tack to rub liniment
on the toot without first removing the tack.
? ei £, ove le t a °k an d the foot will heal
itself—neutralise the acid and stomach
troubles will disappear. Irritating medi-
cines and medical treatments are useless,
so long as the contents of the stomach re-
main acid; remove the acidity and there will
be no need for medicine—the inflamed lining
of the stomach will then heal itself. Sufferers
from acidity should get a small bottle of
bisurated magnesia from their chemist and
take half a teaspoonful in a quarter of a
glass of hot or cold water after meals, re-
peating in fifteen minutes, if necessary, this
being the dose which the doctor has‘found
most efficacious in all cases. —Advt.
“Melos”: The dugong is in imminent
danger of being wiped out. At one time the waters
as far south as Botany Bay were included in his
itinerary; now only the northern and north-eastern
portions of Australia are visited. Having but little
intelligence and being practically without means of
defence, the animal falls an easy victim to the
hunter. White brother secures him by means of a
2ft. mesh-rope net, about 130yds. long by 12ft. deep,
which he moors at the entrance to rivers where the
dugong-grass and other marine herbage flourish.
Abo. does the trick with a wooden harpoon (usually
the black palm) attached to a rope made out of tree
fibre. Unfortunately food-economy does not worry
black brother, and there is often great waste of
valuable material after a successful hunt. The
dugong is a warm-blooded sea animal of ungainly
proportions, and when full-grown measures about Bft.
or 9ft. in length and weighs from lOcwt. to llcwt.
The female suckles her young in an almost human
way, holding the infant to her breast and regarding
it with an expression of great affection.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin” : A Murrunjbidgee dis-
trict trapper, when gutting a rabbit recently, found
in its stomach a medal awarded as a prize in a bicycle
road-race at Urana some years ago. One comes
across abnnnydance of such strange mysteries when
“drawing” game Outback. The most curious find I
ever made in an animal's interior was during my Big
Scrub days, when the foodbag of a cham-
pion chicken-stealing gohanna in Warded (then
known as Two-wharves) contained a work-ticket
from Duke Carter’s sawmill entitling George Cottee
to 17 hours’ pay. We helped George to spend his
curiously-recovered wealth in local beverages, and then
nicknamed him “Gohanner George.”
* * * *
“Ornis”: Gregory Mathews’s book will
never overshadow John Gould’s on Australian birds.
I possess the greater part of the latter’s master-
piece, and am, I regret, a subscriber to the former.
The pictures in Gould’s work not only accurately
depict the bird, but also the surrounding grasses,
etc. A botanist can without trouble identify the
component parts of the frame in which the bird is
set. The illustrations are a delight as pictures;
they are, in addition, scientifically correct for both
the botanist and the ornithologist. Mathews’s plates
are those of birds only, many good but some in-
different. The surroundings of many of the birds
have been put in without apparent thought. In part
I. vol. 1 the yellows and greens of the earth, sky
and “greenery” absolutely shriek at one. The flora
is a veritable hotch-potch. Gould’s plates are scien-
tifically accurate pictures of Australian plants and
atmosphere; Mathews’s are illustrations of birds
found in Australia. As regards letterpress, that of
John Gould is concise, accurate and firsthand. Greg.
Mathews, on the other hand, brings pastepot and
scissors too much into evidence, and wearies one
with pages of ancient arguments in Latin. He has,
INSUFFICIENT WOE.
OPTIMIST: “Cheer up, old chap. You've only got to die once.”
PESSIMIST: “Yes, I know; that's the worst of it!”
in addition, tied himself up in a knot on the scien-
tific side, and the process of disentangling himself is
painful both to him and to his readers. A good copy
of Gould is worth £3OO. G.M.M.’s will never be
worth half that. If you don’t believe what I say, ask
ornithologist Archie J. Campbell, of Melbourne.
“Hay”: The iguana varies greatly in color-
ing in different localities, matching his surroundings
pretty closely. The biggest specimens I have seen
were the dark-skinned ones of the Mt. Lofty Ranges
(S. Aus.). To hear one of these lizards skurrying
through the bush makes one fancy that some large
animal is on trek. The Central Australia go’ is not
so bulky. His skin there is almost red, and in
spring when the old coat is cast off he looks quite
handsome. I don t know how the big lizard shapes
as a rabbiter, but I know him to be a keen bird-
nester, fond of eggs and fledglings. He is very
easily tamed, and is a common pet about Outback
stations huts, attending regularly to pick the dinner
bones. I have only sampled the flesh when cooked
in a very rough style, but I believe a good chef
could make a dish from it that would pass as spring
chicken.
“Karuali ': “Werrimee’s” mention of
brumbies (B. 17/5/’l7) reminds me of the time
when old Billy Cummins, of Peel, near Bathurst
(N.S.W.), gave permission to one and all to rid his
run of the brumby pest. Sunday was a popular day
for us lads to go out and build a trapyard contiguous
to brumby haunts, run a mob in, rope and saddle up
the choicest, and steer them for home. In a couple
of days they were sufficiently mouthed to steer up
the Bathurst streets, and after doing a bit of street
“show” riding we put them in the hands of old
Jim Cassidy, Bathurst’s king auctioneer in those
days. But the specimen would have to be extra-
choice to bring more than five bob. By the
way, after one of Jim’s sales I saw him play a bloke
marbles (big-ring) for a fiver. The bloke lost.
“D.Y.W.”: I lutve met the little ll.ving-
mouse in two localities in N. S. Wales. At Pear-
son’s station, 10 or 12 miles south of
Wagga, 1 was able to study them, and am
convinced that they aro strictly arboreal, living
in the hollows of trees. They do not jump
like a ’roo, nor are they like that beast in any
respect. They are perfect mice, except that they
are webbed similar to the flying-squirrel, and their
mode of flight is precisely like the float of a squirrel.
I got a family of five in one tree, and Mrs. Mouse
had triplets in her pouch.
*,* * *
“N. 0.0.”: The chief difference, beside the
physical one, between Tommy and Billjim is that
the former doesn’t wear the universal happy Aus-
tralian grin. “Seven days’ C. 8.” or “seven days’ ship
fatigue,’ is the colonel’s sentence for defaulters.
Billjim only grins. Then the colonel cocks his eye
and grins, too; then the orderly-room officers grin,
and the provost-sergeant grins as lie locks the
defaulter up iii the cells; then they both grin
through the iron-laced wicket in the door. I believe
they grin in a bayonet charge: I know I am always
catching myself wearing the thing under all sorts of
circumstances.
“Eddyson”: Nutt and Hodges lived in a
slringybark hut at Barrel Flat, and fossicked indus-
triously along the ravished lead for patches of
wash, left by the pioneers of 1860. They were doing
pretty well on the whole, and saw at least two
years’ work before them. In these circumstances
they might have been quite comfortable but for
the propinquity of Mrs. Bell. Mrs. Bell was an
industrious widow of 40, not too fat, and pleasingly
THEY RECOGNISED IT.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER : "Yes, children, there's something that goes about making
work for idle hands to do. You've seen pictures of it—it has cloven hoofs, horns
and a tail.”
CHORUS OF BUSH KIDS: “Miss—a cow!”
fair, who farmed chickens, and washed, baked,
patched or scrubbed for an honest penny. Nutt
explained: “Here’s me ’n’ Ben bin mates since
eighteen-ninety, wet ’n’ shine, rough ’n’ smooth,
piggin’ in along a ole ’oiler log, or sorter swankin’
in a slap-up little hut as now, till we’ve growed t’
be sorter arm ’n’ leg with one another. I dunno
what I’d do without him. If he was t’ cut out
I’d be a lost dog, ’n’ I reckoned it was much the
same with him; but, struth! here’s the cow a-castin’
sheep’s eyes at that widder. I give him a father
iv a hidin’ fer that sorter thing once before, ’n’ I’ll
■ it agin. Jonathan Nutt ain’t goin’ t’ be turned
down ’n' cast adrift fer no blessed dame. Wot if
she has got dimples?” cried Nutt indignantly. “Blow
’er dimples!” A couple of days later Nutt indulged
in further comments. “Up at her ’ouse he was agin
lars night. Goadin’ me too fur, he is. Should hear
him crackin’ up her cookin’, ’n’ there ain’t a better
hut mate livin’ than Johnnie Nutt. I’ll cook her
’ead off. Suppose he marries her, wot of me? Ain’t
I got no rights ? After all these years I orter be
able to sue him for desertion. But let him look out.
Johnnie Nutt’s the boy to deal with' him, ’n’ well
he knows it.” At about 12 o’clock on the following'
night vve heard sounds of violent insurrection in the
hut of Nutt and Hodges. Nutt met us at the door ;
he was rather breathless. “It’s nothin’ V speak of,”
said he. “I just been trimmin’ his nibbs fer tailin’
after that widder. Damn young fool wants some
sense knockin’ into him.” Hodges, by the way, was
55, and considerably taller than Nutt, who, however,
W'as of a more combative and domineering disposi-
tion. On the following Sunday evening Nutt went
with an air of terrible resolution to Mrs. Bell’s
back door. “I want Ben,” said he, “ ’n’ what’s
more I’m goin’ to have him. Women like you orter
be dealt with, lurin’ away men’s mates. Ben Hodge,
come outer that, ’r I’ll blarsted well lug you out!”,
Ben came out, and Johnnie drove him home, lectur-
ing bitterly all the way like an irate parent dealing
with a disobedient offspring of tender years. The
struggle between Jonathan Nutt and the jocose widow
continued during out stay, and I was very reluctant
to leave before it had reached a crisis. But Billings
the grocer wrote to the effect that there had been
an attempted elopement on the part of Hodges and
the widow, which, however, was headed off the
Point by Johnnie Nutt, who drove his mate home in
their spring dray, sitting on him all the way, and
leaving the indignant widow the satisfaction of
walking back. Two years later I was again at
Barrel Flat, and Billings replied: “Oh, yes, Mrs.
Bell s married all right. She married four months
after that elopement I wrote you about.” “Hodges,
of course?” said I. “No blessed fear,” Billings
grinned; “Jonathan Nutt!”
“Wandi”: An old-time device for trapping
dingoes was a deep hole with a trapdoor, and the lure
was supplied by short-chaining a dog on it for
a while during the day. When settlements were few
on the upper part of the Richmond River a ehock-
and-log pen was built alongside a main track, and
in it a dingo was imprisoned so that his howls at
night would bring others around. Close by a deep
pit was dug, and covered with a heavy lid, which
was evenely balanced on a central axle. In trotting
round the pen, offering condolences to his unfor-
tunate brother, the visitor stepped on to the trap-
door, which promptly swung from under him, and
i eadjustcd itself immediately. One day an inquisi-
tive traveller was sidling round the pen, when he
was suddenly precipitated into the presence of an
emaciated dingo. For some anxious moments man
and dog watched each other from opposite corners.
Luckily a mate and I had seen the accident, and
with the aid of a vine we hauled the surprised per-
son out.
* * * *
Yalgun” : The blacks were in the habit,
in some parts of N. S. Wales, of naming the birds
b,\ their call. Instances are “boon boon,” a swamp
pheasant; “weelo,” a curlew; “marrah,” a wild
duck; and “dibba dibba,” a plover. The peewee’s
slaill ciy is associated with water, be it in creek,
river or lagoon. The nest is built of pellets of mucl
mixed with grass or feathers and is lined with dried
glass and feathers. These nests are placed near the
extremity of a limb, generally in a gum-tree, some-
times in an oak-tree, on a river or creek bank. The
proprietors earn the protection of pastoralists, farm-
ets and orchardists for valuable service in destroying
grubs, worms, snails and the hosts of sheep fluke.
The scissors-grinder invariably builds her nest on
the same tree as the peewee, only on a lower branch.
Anybody know why?
* * *
Oyo ’: Tell '‘Trooper Bluegum” that he
“ Sll> ' strafe and cure the jibbing camel (B.
~/ 6/ 17) by gathering a handful of fine dust and
throwing it up Stinker’s nostrils and into his mouth.
ut look out that the drom. does not scoot 100
miles or so before recovering from the surprise,
tve cured several horses and camels that way. If
there was ever any sign of jib after the first appli-
cation the mere sight of a thimbleful of dust in my
hand, or the action of stooping to gather some,
always made Cup-winners of the loafers.


,
'A
/a
V/y)
w
%
,
u
33*
mo
T
CfltC
Cigarettes should possess
individuality something
distinctive something
that lingers pleasantly in
the mind.
Once you have made the
acquaintance of
5t$TE (xprks
CIGARETTE
you will recognise their personality and their
claim on your loyalty for all time. You will never
reg'ret becoming' a smoker of these delightfully
“individual” cigarettes.
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
lO for 6d.
STANDARD WEIGHT NOT LESS THAN lO for 6d.
Obtainable of all good-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. Ltd., LONDON, ENGLAND.


LEO, JAN and MISCIIEL CIIERNIAVSKY, the three brothers whose playing of the
violin, ’cello and piano has won the rapturous enthusiasm of audiences all over the world .
As musicians of one family they are admittedly without peers.
There is no room left for doubt as to the superiority of
m
w.
mmm
m
M
'-G&Hj
sdf
Hi)
DESIGN AND TRADE MARK ADOPTED 1916 ■
THE FAMOUS MONEY-SAVING REMEDY for
Asthma,
Bronchitis,
Coughs, Colds, Croup, Catarrh,
Distress of the Throat and Kindred Ailments.
OVER 4000 USERS HAVE WRITTEN TESTIMONIALS FROM ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALASIA.
Among recent testimonials for HEENZO is one from the brilliantly-gifted CHERNIAVSKY BROTHERS, who wrote:
MB. G. W. HEAN,
Chemist,
Hotel Australia,
Sydney, June 11, 1917.
Dear Sir, —Please supply per bearer six bottles of Heenzo and one dozen boxes of Heenzo Cough Diamond. .
Dear Sir,—Please supply per bearer six bottles ot Heenzo anu one uozen sunnlv of
_ >T Ttiov (ro vp iic fiiinli pffeCtlV© FCllCl tUflt W G WISH lO u»VO » Supply
We may mention that vve used these remedies on our trip over from New Zealant . • ® . havinir made such valuable prepara-
them on our journey to America, whither we proceed shortly to fulfil concert engagements. We are grateful to you for having made such valuable p
tions available. Vom ' S faithfully *
WHAT OTHER CELEBRATED ARTISTS SAY
From among: Hundreds of Fetters received from Celebrated Artists we select a few:
MADAME ANTONIA DOLORES:
“T am delighted to acknowledge the value of Heenzo Cough Diamonds. I have found them
agreeable to take and very efficient. It gives me great pleasure to know that such a valuable remedy
is manufactured in Australia.”
MADAME KATE ROONEY:
“Having frequently used Heenzo Cough Diamonds, I am glad to be able to recommend them, as
I find them an excellent throat tonic.”
MISS DOROTHY BRTINTON:
“Just a line to tell you what wonderful benefit I have derived from your wonderful Heenzo and
Cough Diamonds for the throat. I shall certainly never venture on a tour without a plentiful
stock, and am at present busy recommending them to my friends.”
MISS LILI SHARP:
“You have at last solved that very questionable problem, ‘Can a cold be speedily cured?’ Heenzo
(Kean's Essence) is invaluable, being soothing and at the same time invigorating to the vocal
organs.”
MISS GLADYS L. MONCRIEFF:
“I have tried and proved the value of Heap’s Essence (Heenzo) for preserving the clearness of
the voice and overcoming the distressing effects of a cold, ft is splendid; in fact, it is a blessing
to singers, with whose throats the winter weather plays such havoc.
MR. ALBERT GOOSSENS,
Sinking Master at the N.S.W. Government Conservatorium of Music:
“I have much pleasure in stating that I have used Hean’s Essence > (Heenzo) with wonderful
effect for a cold from which I had been suffering for a considerable time.
MR. PETER DAWSON:
“I have had occasion to use Heenzo (Hean’s Essence), and am glad to say a few doses dispelled
a cold that had troubled me for several weeks.”
PROFESSOR RANDAL WOOD H OUSE, R.1.A.M.:
“I must congratulate you upon the excellent curative qualities of Heenzo (Hean’s Essence) I
a nastv attack of hoarseness, due to a cold, which interfered with my voice, for
which I used your remedy. To my pleasant astonishment I was quickly relieved from the trouble.’
HEENZO (Registered Name for Hean’s Essence) is a highly-concentrated compound oi; Whfopl Inflamed^Throate!
printed on the label, at once produces a pint of superior-quality mixture for Asthma, Bronchitis, Colds, Catarrh, Influenza, Croup, wnoopin B cou fe ,
A pint of ordinary remedies would cost at least 12s. HEENZO costs only 2s. (ty P ost 2s. . 3u.).
HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS are lozenges medicated with HEENZO. Prices: In cardboard boxes, 9d. sin tins (largerrfTTPENZO or, if you do not require a family supply
Do not wait till you are half dead with a cold before you start to take anything for it. Call on your Chemist or Store to-day an >
of cough mixture, ask for HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS. . . , 1?a rwtiereio-h Street Sydney.
If not obtainable in your locality, send price, and your order will be filled per return mail by G. W. HEAN, Manufactui mg j emis ,
Business, Robbery, etc
“Peg-Leg”: Re gohanna oil, can “Ses” (B.
31/5/T7) explain the origin of the rumor
that frequent application thereof rots the
bone? It is so widespread that a valuable
commercial asset is being ruined by its cur-
rency. You can’t get a city chap to touch
the oil, yet the only case I can find against
it is that a footballer complained that it
seemed to dry up the oil in his joints.
* * * *
“Bellambi”: “Adelaide” and “Double R.”
mention record prices for cows. At H. R.
Denison’s dispersal sale at Eumaralla
(N.S.W.) a year ago, Kenta’s Twilish
(imp.) brought 95 guineas, and another im-
ported Jersey 90 guineas. A female calf
from Kenta’s Twilish by Merry Mike fetched
27 guineas. The calf was 10 days old.
Twenty-five to 45 guineas was the usual
thing at that sale.
* * * *
“Eloc”: “Double R.” advances £35 as a
record price for an ordinary back-yard
variety of cow (B. 24/5/T7). “1.4. U.”
trumps that with £3B (B. 14/6/T7). I go
better. In February last, Ulumbarella sta-
tion, Barraba (N.S.W.), sold one cow for
50 guineas and 10 others from 36 to 49
guineas. They were well-bred, but not pedi-
greed. Also a few weeks ago Moses, of
Combadello, Moree (N.S.W.), sold 100 cows
at 30 guineas each. The buyer resold one
pen for 40 guineas. Not pedigreed, either.
Both lots were beef breed—Durham.
* * * *
“D.F.” : The‘Union S.S. Co., now being
gathered in by the P. and 0., has done some
“absorbing” itself in its time. Its biggest
meal was the old Tasmanian Steam Navi-
gation Co.’s seven vessels, bought in 1891.
One of these, the old Oonah, is still running
between Melbourne and the Speck’s North-
west Coast, though she retired for a bit
lately after trying to climb on to the wharf
at Burnie. Another was the Pateena, which
used to work the Melbourne-Launceston
ferry before the Loongana was built, and
then drifted away to run on the M.L. coast.
The old T.S.N. Co. looked like becom-
ing a good thing, but in the ’Bo’s one or two
of its ships were piled up on the rocks, and
when the borrowing boom burst it thought
the end of the world had come and went out.
Lots of people in the Speck have wished
since that it had been kept alive.
# * * *
“Wiliani”: I have a bone to pick with
“Te Babarantiko” (B. 7/6/T7). The rest-
house at Lautoka, Fiji, is not “run” by the
C.S.R., and there is nothing wrong with the
accommodation at the price. The housing
is excellent, and the table and attendance
first-class. The company certainly owns the
rest-house at Nadarivatu, but it can
scarcely be said to run it, inasmuch as rest-
seekers there have to take their own linen,
food and attendance. The C.S.R. has many
interests in Fiji, but this at least can be
said —whatever it has to do it does well.
The labor problem in this group is, I admit,
becoming acute. But deeper than that is
the land problem; and soon it will be the
biggest that Fiji has to face.
“Billy B.” : None of you know the mean-
est man. He’s a .Tew publican in Sydney.
Talked us blind until we had bought drinks
all round and finally shouted for him. “I’ll
have a cigar,” he said and reached down a
box. “These are pretty good,” he sniffed.
“A pal o’ mine gave them to me.” Then he
rang up the sixpence on the register!
* * * *
“Milled Grease”: Senator Russell suits us
fine! First he fixed the wholesale prices of
butter at Is. 5d., Is. 3d., and Is. Id. for first,
second and third grades respectively. This
was no good to us, so we buttermen deputa-
tionised him, and in a day or two he
gazetted pew prices., viz.. Is. ad., Is. 4d. and
Is. 2d. per lb. Everybody in the trade knows
that country factory butter is nearly all first
grade: what isn’t is third giade, axle-grease.
Second-grade, cowfat, which most of Mel-
bourne uses, is built, in privately-owned city
factories, of small lots of hand-separated and
dairy butter and of job lots of cream col-
lected from a thousand outer-suburban farm-
lets largely uninspected and often unhealthy.
This fat. compared with the country co-op-
erative factories’ product, is worth 3d. or 4d.
a lb. less. Wherefore we cordially approve
of Senator Russell, the pliant, sympathetic
member of the Win-the-War Ministry. As
for the country dairy farmer and his co-op.
factories —well, if people are fools enough
to live in the country, what do they deserve?
* * * *
The Vic. Sericulture Association, which
last year distributed among its members a
large quantity of graine imported from
France, is going to do with its raw product
what the Australian wool-grower mostly
does with his—ship it abroad, to be made up
in factories manned by people who have
brains and skill enough to do what the Aus-
tralian can’t or won’t do himself. The seri-
culturists, by the way, expect to be able to
wind off the silk from this year’s cocoon-
harvest very shortly, the French reeling-
machine which was ordered ages ago by the
Department of Agriculture being expected to
arrive within a few weeks. A stack of
cocoons is ready. The result in skeined silk,
if properly displayed to the public, should
give a fillip to what may be made a very
desirable industry, even if at present it only
goes as far as gathering the crop of silk.
Thomas Ilorobin, of Brighton, is lion. sec.
to the society.
“Te Babarantiko”: Very little coastal
sugar land is now available for settlers in
Fiji, and that little only in small areas.
All that stretch of country from Sigatoka,
through Lautoka and Ra to the Nadarivatu
Range at distant Tavua —say, 80 miles of
Viti Levu —-and, in the south-east, Nausori
on the Rewa, is under C.S.R. control. So
is Labasa on Vanua Levu. The small part
comprising Penang and FUerton, witli its
mill on Viti Levu’s north-east corner, is
owned by the Penang Sugar Estate —a Mel-
bourne concern. Penang mill crushes about
30,000 tons of cane in the season: the
C.S.R.’s Lautoka and Rarawai (Ba) mills
put through, during the season recently
closed, over 300,000 tons each. And there
is the Vancouver-Fiji Sugar Co.’s estate and
mill on the Navua River, crushing perhaps
twice as much as Penang. As small areas
become available they are eagerly taken up
from the native Fijians at staggering rentals
by “free” Indians. There are entire settle-
ments of Indian sugar-cane growers (one
of the largest is Tagi Tagi. midway between
Ba and Tavua), where Indians live in grass
lints, and many cultivate their holdings with
a pair of working bullocks. On February 26
this year small Indian cane-growers were at
the Rarawai mill office paid as much as
£3OOO for cane. All but a- trifle of it
went to the loafing Fiji landowners.
Two months ago, in the Ba district, a few
leases of cane lands, with from hve yc^ rs
upwards to run, were sold by auction, bor
some of the leases —crop and improvements
excluded —the amazing price of £24 per acre
was paid. The native Fijian landlord grows
lazier as his rentals go up —-there are small
Fiji villages in the sugar country having
an income from land leases of from i4UUU
to £6OOO per annum.
* * * *
“F.N.T.”: The poultry-for-soldiers enthu-
siast still continues to offer free advice to
the returned fighting man. In the women s
department of the Argus the other day the
industry was described as “interesting and
suitable for partially disabled men, and pro-
fitable if not neglected.” The hell’s advocate
stumbled over the chicken-coop, however,
when urging that every poultry-keeper
should patriotically send a pair of pure-bred
birds to a receiving-place, for starting re-
turned soldiers with stock. The lady care-
fully explained that birds had sometimes
been contributed to be sold on behalf of
the repatriation funds, but that the estab-
lishment of a receiving-place was the better
plan. Why? Well, “lately I sent a crate
of purebred Leghorns to market for the bene-
fit of this, scheme. They only brought 15d.
per head.” At the present price of wheat
and other fowl-food, what fat profits the
poultry-industry doesn’t offer the returned
soldier, when a quarter-dollar is the market;
price for A 1 ebooks!
'OPEFUL 'ERB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I prop me barrel' by the kerb,
Where fat ole dames me fruit can see
’N’ move-on John Hops won’t disturb.
Me cobbers call me ’Opeful 'Erb,
’N', struth, a bloke has got to be.
“Orange, mum ?
Two a thrum.
Ripe be-nanners? [Strike me dumb!]
Apples, mum ?”....
(Can I sell ’em ?
See her smell ’em—
Seems to think they orter hum !)
“Twopence a pound the golden pears;
They’re fat ’n’ sweet ez honey-bees.”
Ole mother comes, ’n’ sniffs ’n’ stares,
’N’ counts her money. Then she dares!
“A ’arf a pound, ’n’ pick 'em, please.
That's a speck!”
What a neck !
S'pose she’ll pay me with a cheque.
Snorts like sin,
Spends a copper,
Thinks it proper
I should chuck me bafrer in.
’Ere’s grandpa boldin’ close ’n’ tight
His battered thrummer; peerin’ round,
He paws a peach, ’n’ takes a bite;
lie thinks the gages isn’t right
When he has ate about a pound.
“Peaches, boss?
[Whoa, old boss!]
Straight, I'm soilin' at a loss.”
Ga rr, lie's gone.
Jest like many,
I Moos his penny
At a barrel - further on.
It’s ’Opeful ’Erb, ’n’ all the day
I got to sport me sunny smile,
’N’ pipe me little merry lay,
While John Hop pauses on his way,
’N’ spikes the ripest on the pile.
It’s “So-long,” then,
“Pay you when
Moochin’ round this way agen.”
“Do a hike 1
Ripe be-nanner
Ten a tanner,
Come 'n' pick ’em where you like !”
VICTORIA.
Y. Z.
OLD ROMANCE AND NEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They tell me that the world survives
In dullness of good order, and
We live but prim and seemly lives,
For legal meekness holds command.
The glamor of the olden day
Is gone, and all is trim and grey.
Yet still my grocer is, I fear,
A bold, ungodly buccaneer.
My draper, in his tall silk hat
And with his natty folded gamp,
Although he is so neat and fat
Is quite an enterprising scamp ;
Though crossbones do hot deck his sign,
He is a Captain Kidd, in fine,
Who e’er by proxy scours the sea
On business bent and robbery.
My baker’s coat is spick and span,
And no three-cornered hat he wears;
But he's a. roguish highwayman,
And any thing the rascal dares.
From me he takes his daily dole.
I pay the pirate milkman toll.
The butcher is a brigand dread,
But claps no pistol to my head.
Since setting up a home I’ve met
A life of great romance, and found
With privateers my store beset,
My house with bandits hemmed around.
Each errand run on simple biz
A wonderful adventure is,
’Twas “Money or your life,” they say....
True, no one wants our lives to-day.
VICTORIA.
B. T.


BRITISH
THOM SOM
HOUSTON C® l T .®
: RUGBY
S^ENGLAND^
m
1
3H
*
n
i
V
I
/I
>
///
1
si
W#
m
h.
utn
mey
mm
I
ill.
A
dtliu!
For GLOOM is FAILURE—and LIGHT SUCCESS,
And never the twain shall meet
While “Mazda” and “Edison” Lamps may shine
In office, home, or street!
For there is neither loss nor waste,
Extravagance, failure, or doom,
Where the “Allied Lights” fight, hand in hand.
Their Common Enemy, GLOOM ! !
—With apologies to Rudyard Kipling
(Australian • General - Electric- C?
Wentworth ay Sydney, Oof Queen & Little Collins St Melbourne.
[Representingßritish Thomson Houston, O? FnpJand
c 6 GENERAL ELECTRIC C 9, NEW YORK.U.S.A. °
GENERAL
ELECTRIC C?
NEW YORK y


I
j “ "u‘.
T
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Shoe Hook, Lift and
Glove Hook, in Silk-lined Morocco Case, 8/6.
With Shoe Lift and Button Hook only, 7/6.
...
A. Saunders’ Handkerchief Box, pure Silver-plated, At
quality, hand engraved, “Ribbon” design, with lock and key, Silk
lined, £3/10/-
Glove Box, to match, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Perfume
Bottle, plain,
Solid Silver Mount,
Crystal Cut Glass
Bottle, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver
Photo Frame, hand burnished,
plain design, Imperial size, \
£2/10/-
Cabinet size, 25/-
TOILET GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, 5 pieces,
hand burnished, plain design, 45/-
Other styles, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
W
W
¥
vm
m
i
*«<s
■%V‘
&
£
St**
Srr,
s
iiiiiiimiii
i
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Toilet Set, comprising
Lady’s Brush, Mirror and Comb, plain design, in Silk-lined
Case, £3/3/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney, opo 3,„ B ,“^ w “ y
A. Saunders’ Silver-plated Purse, beautifully bur-
nished, “Ribbon” design, with chain handle, inner frame
nicely lined, 21/-J plain, 15/6.
Solid Silver, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-, up to £5.
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar, hand engraved.
Pure Silver-plated Lid. Crystal fluted Glass Jar,
5/6.
Others, 7/6, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, “Ribbon”
design, with lock and key, silk lined, 35 /-
Other styles, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
asd
Then iose no time in buying at tin of
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Are made from a formula of the Liverpool Throat
Hospital. They are antiseptic and kill the germs.
BVANS, SONS, LBSCHBR & WBBB, Limited, LONDON.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OP NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-,
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Houses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
fas
HOME CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
tm~ BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prop. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His .Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDouuall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, II- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my
your cash.
prices with others and save
25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY,
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Thicks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Sd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, l/2*posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and 'Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete). 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR 9 cheap Book Depot, 67 §69 Market Street, Sydney (only*


Amusements.
Hurry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ud.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
yiVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS 8 ; MATINEES WEDS. AND SATS.
All Epoch in Vaudeville.
COLOSSAL SUCCESS OF MISS
ADA REEVE,
World’s most famous Comedienne and a brilliant
Vaudeville Co.
■IVOEI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MISS
NELLIE ST I?WART
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
In Serial Form. Vaudeville in Addition.
Qli ITKRI on THE a T re. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF PENELOPE.
SATURDAY NEXT.
MARIE TEMPEST,
England’s Greatest Comedy Actress, in
GOOD GRACIOUS, ANNABELLE.
GRAHAM BROWNE in association.
HER MAJESTY’S. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
THE MOST WONDERFUL DRESS DISPLAY EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
CAN ARY COTTA GE.
The last word in loveliness and liveliness.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Commencing SATURDAY, JUNE 30.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES and JACK WALLER present
LOOK WHO’S HERE.
A KALEIDOSCOPIC INNOVATION.
Glowing with gladness of the season when the
heart is young.
Plans at Nicholson’s Tuesday, June 26.
1
.
Triangle plays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d,
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited tne
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best iilms.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
Amusements.
LJER MAJESTV’S n MSmStBO IJRNE. l JRNE.
!■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LT
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
j. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE PINK LADY.
The Greatest Triumph of the Royal Comic Opera Co.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual
—... . ... y KOY A L, MELBOURNE.
T Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
CYRIL MAUDE
in his world-famous production of
GRUMPY.
LNG’S
Til EAT It Eh M E IBOUBN E.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
K
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT. JUNE 30.
W’elcome Reappearance for a brief season only ot
SARA ALLGOOD,
in
PtfGr O’ M Y HEART.
Prices: Res. Stalls G/-, Res. D.C. 5/-, Stalls 4/-,
Gallery 2/- (Late door 1/-).
pitiN CESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER and JOHN FULLER, Jun.,
present the Distinguished Favorite,
ALLAN WILKIE
in
THE STORY OF THE ROSARY.
The Success of Four Continents.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
A
U D I TORIUM, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
Reappearance of the World-Famous
CHERNIAVSKYS,
LEO, JAN and MISCIIEL,
in a series of Brilliant New Recitals.
MELBOURNE: To-night (Thurs.) and Sat. next.
ADELAIDE: July 3, 5 and 7. .
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plans at Allans.
Majestic theatre. Melbourne.
COMMENCING ON SATURDAY.
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS
in
THE AMERICANO.
And
SYLVIA BREMER and CHARLES RAY
in
THE PINCH-HITTER.
M
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK. .
B
RITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m; to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
If any illustration appearing in a'hk
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
D office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
„ Tj nTl a\v Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman, Hon. R..
DlßE ßlack TlTd.: Hon. S“ jk Burns, K.C.M.G.; M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe MLC. ; .Wm«
Knox,’ Esq , K.C. ; Samuel Hordern, Esq. Consulting Actuary: Richard leece, F.1.A., P.F.A., FJ3.S,
O. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,117,000.
Amount divided for
The Society issues e
Write for prospectus
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR,
ne year, 1916 . . £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed
erv desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards,
and full information without delay.
. . £21,560,000
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a ■feature of the business*
Offices : 44 BRIDGE STREET,
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Tooth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, ferabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
>
FOR
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(fIPILLfIRINE
If you decide to shave your
Moustache don't leave off
CAPILLARINE. It will strengthen
the hair-roots in the meantime,
and the Moustache will be more
luxuriant when you decide to grow
it again.
PRICE 10/C JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG S AITKEN,
654 Georg* St.
SYDNEY.
England Calls
for Soldiers
Officers require reliable watches.
We supplied them to men in South Africa,
Egypt, and even France, and many have
called and thanked us for the absolutely
reliable instruments supplied.
Worn on the wrist, they did not vary a
minute in a month.
They are 1-plate Levers, will stand Hard
Riding and knocking about, and are
guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
withe ut charge for two years (breakages
excepted).
Open-faced “Fx.&R.” Wristlet Watch, with luminous
figures and hands, complete, in regulation leather
wristlet, 70/-
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
■
- ' i ■ ■ ... „
amxAmmmMm
tt! ~ • ■
MaC.
rnT'': 3
<
MR!
.
Hi
. Ji
s/sSft '&-.■<-
■
f
f?”
<•«
-hi.
V
illl
■
.7//!
'i
i
w ■
*■*
kh.
_
Hi M \< ?'
; ;
Ofi
Flkl Belli
F*\
bixh
.
BARNET CLASS RUBBER CQ.
phIMDERSOF TIHE RUBBER INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALASIA.
MANUFACTURERS OF EVE! PACKING JOINTING
CYCLE & VEHICLE TYRES, GARDEN HOSE, ENGINE JOiwniW
BELTING AND ALL DOMESTIC
AND MECHANICAL RUBBER GOODS
SYDNEY PERTH
MELBOURNE LAUNCESTON
ADELAIDE HOBART
BRISBANE CHRISTCHURCH,N.Z.


HOYT’S PICTORES
Two features every night, 3 hours —12,000 feet of film 8 to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOORKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
til
JSSS
fo**s
£*<*
3S£
y)HO»^»
FREE
M TRIAL
m * JB bottle
Lung
Troubles.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Consumption.
For any weakness of throat or chest, or any tendency
to tuberculosis; for a troublesome cough, bronchitis or
any chest affection, the standard, approved treatment is a
course of Angier’s Emulsion. This remedy combines sooth-
ing and healing properties with exceptional tonic and
strengthening qualities. It heals and strengthens the lungs,
promotes appetite, greatly improves digestion, and exerts a
pronounced tonic, invigorating influence upon the general
health. No other Emulsion is so strongly recommended and
so largely prescribed by the medical profession, and no other
Emulsion can show so many testimonials to its efficacy.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
There is a significant line or two in the
half-yearly report of the big Mt. Lyell Co. :
“The quantity of superphosphate being used
this season in all States will probably show
a decrease for the first time for many years.
This hints at one of the most serious things
that could happen to Australia —a reduction
of even the wretchedly small area under cul-
tivation. It is doubtful whether even to
this moment the public realises that, though
the farmer has no more control over the wheat
in the stacks at the railway stations than
the doctors in Collins or Macquarie street
have, he has to stand the whole of the loss
through mice and the collapse of the stacks,
with the consequent destruction of millions of
bushels of wheat, and to pay for all the re-
bagging and the hire of men to do it at a
pound a day. To saddle him with this is a
national scandal ; and in the end, if it is
persisted in, it is going to be a national
disaster.
The Commonwealth Government lias
apparently got some idea of the discoveries
the Defence Inquiry Board has made, and a
committee is to- be appointed “to advise on
the business side of the Department.” The
Bulletin has no objection to an advisory
board; but it is about time the principle of
Ministerial responsibility was insisted upon.
There probably never has been a more awful
muddle and more shocking waste anywhere
than in the Defence Department; but every
suggestion wkth regard to the Minister is
met with : “Oh, but he wasn’t responsible —
that was dine to the head of this or that
branch.” Nobody who believes in Respon-
sible Government should tolerate such an
explanation. The Minister is responsible,
and so far as the people and Parliament are
concerned he alone.
N.S.W. .labor unions are greatly per-
turbed at the accumulation of stocks of
coal at Newcastle and elsewhere, and, scent-
ing an atta ck of some sort, are taking what
are described as “necessary steps for their
own protection.” This is very wrong of
them. What they ought to do is simply to
stay inside their own doors and talk of the
blessings <of peace.
Treasurer Forrest says the “public debt
of the Commonwealth” at April 30 was
£165.544.532. But the people who carry
this have something else on their back. The
real public debt looks like this:—
Federal. . . . £165,544,532
State . . . . 365,000,000
Total . . £530,544,532
And the total is growing at the rate of about
a million and a half a week. Cut this up
among five millions, add the reflection that
half the aggregate has been incurred during
the past five years, and there looks to be
enough in the situation to make any ordinary
citizen decide that the time is about ripe to
take a serious view of things.
Professor Macintyre, chairman of the
N.S.W. Recruiting Committee, exhorts us
to plug away with the voluntary system —
“it is unfair to say it has been a complete
failure.” Of course it hasn’t. But what
we need is a system that will be a complete
success.
The P.L.L. Conference in Sydney has de-
cided that it is time to improve State school
education by “placing before the children the
ideals of peace and the steps necessary to
realise the same.” What “the steps” are the
resolution didn’t disclose; but the speakers
had no doubt about it—you must leave off
preparing for war. It seems an excellent
idea and capable of wide application to pro-
duce enormous savings of life and labor.
To prevent burglary the State child will be
instructed to leave out locks and latches
when he builds his home. To prevent em-
THE BREED.
One: “ Mong ?”
bezzlements he will be taught that auditors
should be abolished. And of course to pro-
duce perfect peace in industrial enterprises
the unions will do away with fighting funds
and militant organisations.
Again there is talk about technical train-
ing and the national need of encouraging
apprentices to get scientific knowledge.
But, honestly, do the employers of Australia
—including State Governments—offer any
encouragement to technically-trained men?
One of the biggest Broken Hill dividend-
payers lately advertised for a man to take
charge of it's selective flotation plant and
offered £4 10s. per week. Miners in the
same mine, with no technical training, aver-
aged 19s. per shift last half-year. Foremen
get up to £7. A selective flotation man
should have a thorough knowledge of
chemistry, and a fair knowledge of drawing
and engineering, and of course must be able to
handle men, which is not the least item. As
the flotation process is in the transition stage
he must also have a brain capable of research
work. For all this'£4 10s.; for untrained
miners up to £lO, and a minimum of 12s. 3d.
daily. And everywhere through Australia it
is the same —-scientific training is ill-paid,
and the unskilled work is overpaid, often
ridiculously overpaid, with the result that
youth flocks to the mere wood-and-water
joey jobs. So Australia remains naturally
a country mostly of wood-and-water-joey
jobs.
Australia is still raising war loans, and
raising them on terms which are the most
likely to get her into trouble. Actually
money is being borrowed for as little as
three years; and even if new money can
be had then, it means spending a, lot to get it.
All the time there are unexploited ways of
raising money cheaply and on reasonably
long terms. On March 24 the Credit Foncier
de France opened snbscriptioii lists for a
loan of 600 million francs. Before evening
that loan had been applied for five times
over. The whole explanation of this aston-
ishing success was that, besides offering
moderate interest, the Credit Foncier under-
took to distribute various prizes by draw-
ings six times a year—including one annual
prize of 500.000 francs. Months ago a Syd-
ney woman, Airs. Alaclurcan, propounded a
somewhat similar scheme to the Australian
Government; but apparently nothing has
been done —except to loaf on Britain for the
money to pay our troops; and in the circum-
stances that is positively indecent.
Presumably vigilant Pearce is brooding
over the case of Robert Grimm, a Swiss-
German agent who was deputed to suggest a
separate peace between Germany and
Russia. Iloffman, a Swiss Federal Coun-
cillor, had the dirty job in hand, and oper-
ated through this Grimm, who had gone to
Petrograd in the middle of May, “and was
ostensibly acting as a guide to returning
Russian refugees.” This last sentence can
he specially commended to the notice of
Pearce. Have there been any persons in
Australia busying themselves about the re-
The Other : “Vo, Fusion."
turn of Russian refugees? If so, what has
Pearce done to make sure that they are not
Grimms, too? There was a time when we
had (officially, at any rate) to assume that
every Russian was our friend. Enough has
happened since then to justify us in suspect-
ing that occasionally a Russian may be
Wilhelm’s friend.
It was stated in the press last week that
the half-dozen chief distributing warehouses
in Melbourne had already sent orders to
Japan for hundreds of thousands of pounds’
worth of Christmas toys, and that the few
semi-disabled soldiers trained at the Colling-
wood school could not get work because of
that. It looks as if somebody is playing a
dirty trick on the soldiers in teaching them
toy-making while neglecting to give them a
tariff to assure them employment.
Brookfield, M.L.A., at the Sydney P.L.L.
Conference: —
There was too much waving of flags and pointing
out the glories of war. The children should also be
told of the blessings of peace. While the little boys
of Australia were being drilled the German boys
were being drilled to kill them.
Well, what is Brookfield going to do about
it? Tell the little boys of Australia to run
home and play, as Belgium told its little
boys a few years ago, and let the little
German boys continue their pleasant occupa-
tion of learning how to kill them?
“ J.T.D.”: Bigjohn Forrest’s Treasury
sprint after the pennies of picture gazers
has not reached expectations. There is one-
way of evading Bigjohn. Where I and the
girl gorge on silent drama, the proprietor
in the pay-box hands out; siuallev-pnced
tickets for the best seats. I tender two
shillings and twopence tax, and receive four
sixpenny tickets, which are exempt from
taxation. The ninepenny patrons, who pay
tenpence, are treated likewise to one sixpenny
and one threepenny ticket, and everyone is
satisfied bar Bigjohn. Of course the pro-
prietor is always careful to explain that
lie has run out of ninepenny and shilling
tickets. I quite believe him; he is a good
man—at figures.
Peacock produced a statement the other
day about what he had been doing with
Vic.’s cashbox, and after shifting a lot of
figures came to the conclusion that lie was
“£lOO.OOO better off than was expected.”
That is one way of saying that, after mak-
ing allowance for £143,000 in Treasury bills
issued to cover the last deficit, the State is
only £107,000 out, and during the last three
years has accumulated a shortage of
£1,000,000. making a total outstanding of
£1,791,000. This looks about as cheerful as
a funeral on a wet day ; yet Peacock seems
to be filled with a vast happiness. The rail-
way deficit for the year is put at £425,000.
To prevent any more of this the Ministry
proposes to raise railway charges by
£500,000. This will fill up the orifice that
would otherwise exist next year. The orifice
already in existence can be plastered over
with a p.n. or something.
The reorganisation of Labor in Tasmania,
initiated four or five years ago by ex-Speaker
Woods, is now in working order. The old
Trades Council (industrial) and
Workers’ League (political) have amalga-
mated under the name of the Labor Federa-
tion. Less friction and expense, with
greater efficiency, are among the advantages
claimed for the new method. As legislative
action is necessarily the chief weapon in
the trade-union armory nowadays, dual con-
trol of the weapon looks like an absurdity
calculated to lead to accidents. N. S. Wales.
Vic. and Queensland still adhere to the old
system, under which one section" of Labor’s
army is liable to march east while the other
section marches west, leaving the undivided
Employers’ Federation a clear run north and
south. In the Ala State recently the struggle
of the industrial-section leaders to obtain
full control of the army so as to check the
stampede of the political section nearly re-
sulted in uncivil war.
The only safe way seems to be to forget
that there ever was such a thing as peace,
and organise for war as if there had never
been anything else. Northcliffe on the Brit-
ish side says “the war is only just begin-
ning,” and the cable credits the Hungarian
Minister for Insulting Behavior with the
statement that the war will last for two
more winters—winters for which our alleg-
edly broken enemies are preparing.
“F.C.”: If I had the good fortune to hold
any land in Victoria with a “spotted title”
— i.e., under clause 69 of the Vici Closer Set-
tlement Act, which stipulates for residence
by the owner for eight months in the year
from three years after purchase—l would
refuse the best offer now going, secure in the
conviction that Premier Peacock and the
Rich Landlords will presently abolish that
clause. It matters not that the whole object
of closer settlement (or any other land set-
tlement.) is to keep landowners where they
ought to be, on their soil and cultivating it
to the utmost advantage. Nor does it matter
that the “spotted title” land-holders got their
blocks on specially easy terms in considera-
tion of the “spot.” All that really matters
is that a host of people besides these Closer
Settlers don’t want this permanent residence
policy continued. Once recognised it may
become a fixed habit, which would be dis-
astrous for land grabbers and jobbers and
even Rich Landlords.
The N. S. Wales Government Gazette
(22/6/T7) explains the facilities for put-
ting Billjim on the land : —•
Amended 'Regulation No. It under the “Returned
Soldiers-’ Settlement Act, 1916.”
11. The following provisions shall, mutatis mutan-
dis, and, except as may he otherwise provided in the
Act, or in these Regulations, or in the notification
in the Gazette setting apart the land, apply to
applicants for, holders of, and dealings with land set
apart under section 4 of the Act; and, in so apply-
ing such provisions, reference therein to any tenures
or to the applicants for or holders of any tenures
therein mentioned shall be read as references to
applicants for or holders of tenures under the said
section of the said Act: —“Crown Lands Consolida-
tion Act, 1913”: Sections 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 33, 50,
53, 54, 55, 56, 70 (subsection 3), 72, (subsection 7),
85 (subsection 4) [and so on for 10 lines] :
Provided that only such of the abovementioned
sections as relate to holdings within irrigation areas
shall apply to such holdings under the Act.
Should any ignorant Billjim require further
information all he has to do is» to forward his
address to the Department accompanied by a
four-horse lorry.
REPATRIATED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His shoulders bowed, perspiringly at work among
the peas,
The soldier earned his daily crust with soil upon his
knees,
And, striving for his proper share of shelter, smoke
and food,
He hastened on his crouching way as though grim
Fate pursued.
Tuppence a pound was his reward —and afterwards a
fat,
Gross, greasy old greengrocer made just twice as
much as that.
From dawn until the sun went down, upon the
poultry-farm
The soldier did his best to keep his bank-account
from harm.
He fattened up the culls, and sighed to see the feed-
bill grow,
And sold the lot. Each blessed bird brought one-
and-nine or so.
And when the shopman entered up his Sabbath-
poultry book,
He did the handsome thing and charged five boh for
every cliook.
At night, upon his simple couch, alarm-clock at his
ear,
The soldier lay and thought upon his profits for the
year;
And, on the darkness scrolled, he saw all sorts of
figures plain,
And totted up the columns, and did them through
again;
Then, sleepless, hearkened to an old, familiar noise
he knew,
The solemn, scarifying sound of interest falling due.
This is the man whose country called. He served
his country well,
And still he serves his native land by raising- stufl to
sell;
And daily does his country dear accept with cheer-
fulness
The sacrifice, nor ceases yet her battling sons to
bless.
But while she loads brave Billjim, with lip-blessings
to the brim,
Ills grateful country squeezes half his earnings out
of him !
VICTORIA.
O. L.


The Chappell
Bijou Grand.
m
Wi
*44
We sell Player Pianos, Pianos,
Organs, Violins, Banjos,
Cornets, Flutes, Concertinas,
Music and Musical Sundries,
Band and Orchestral Instru-
ments of all kinds, also “His
Master’s Voice” Gramophones,
Zonophones, Edison Diamond
Disc Phonographs and all the
latest and best Records.
sdf
The Victor
Player Piano.
THE SELECTION OF
THE RIGHT PIANO.
MUSIC in the Home certainly makes it attractive, and brightens up
the long winter evenings. Without music the education of young
people is not complete—and as music cannot find
proper expression without the help of a good piano,
the selection of the right piano is a most important
matter with the thoughtful and careful buyer.
Mothers realise more and more what a boon a pure-
toned piano is in the home.
Buy one of Paling’s pure-toned Pianos or Player Pianos and
you will be charmed and delighted. We have a magnificent stock
of exquisite Grands, Upright Grands of brilliant tone-quality, Bijou
Grands of artistic design, and sweet-toned cottage models, in various
styles and grades to choose from. Satisfaction Guaranteed. Easy Terms if desired.
Please write for particulars and Illustrated Catalogues-they are free. Write to-night.
S^MEs
The Sames Plano.
Made In England.
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
as
A REMARKABLE FEAT
BY OXY-ACETYLENE
demonstrated bv the illustration, which shows how an old and worthless boilei. for y yws
of age and of enormous dimensions, was cut into small pieces and earned - , I der
confined situation in the basement of a printing works. thou
the most difficult of situations, was finished in two days. Without
the work would have taken weeks, and the whole of the printing machinery and plant would
have been idle and disorganised for weeks m excavation and dismantling woik.
EVERY ENGINEER and all interested should write in for free catalogues, giving
pictures and detailed description of this and othef remarkable MgJMm* The
total length of cutting done in the two days, by one man. was 144 ft. bin. of a si g
thickness of lin. plate, and 18ft. Bin. of the double thickness of -in. plate.
THROUGHOUT GREAT BRITAIN, AMERICA AND THE CONTINENT the
OXY-ACETYLENE process is being more extensively msed day by day for cutting up
iron and steel structures, such as old boilers, tanks, bndgework, etc.
Every Australian Engineer should be able to speak with facility and confidence of the > OXY-ACETYLENE
Cutting and Welding Process.
Those workshops which are rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, contractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers,
repairshops, foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.
The Permanent Trustee Building,
iJ-t ,x
figW
§§££
&S
N>
-W ■
■
\ s :.t
j ■■: ■
- ■>- ■
i
••
; . '.»?■: A
KS
;. v o-
Cutting- up a Cornish
Multitubular Boiler.
ssl
S*v
r ? a
J V \;; - ■ .’ ' ‘ . v • \ v . - • ‘
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Agents— MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


After all it seems the Russians are going
to be inspired by their revolution with a
better fighting spirit than ever, opines that
wisely optimistic spirit King George IV.
topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
Shaving with an old-fashioned
razor is nothing but a habit.
Once try a Gillette and you
would not go back to the old
style for ten times its cost. The
NO STROPPING NO HONING
makes shaving easier, more
comfortable and cheaper.
Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. lac.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIFII-TED, Redfern, Sydney.
Liability under the Workmen’s Compensation Act
Commences from Ist Joly, 1917.
Any Employer of Labor can SECURE COVER AT ONCE from
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited,
THE LEADING ACCIDENT CO. OF AUSTRALASIA,
Te 15.—2404, 2405. 79-81 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
No wonder that veteran racegoers on the
Vie. side take a more sporting interest in winter
hurdles and steeples than in the flat-racing at other
seasons of the year. The crack jumpers are such very
old identities. They go on for ever. Weight for
age comes at last to be a diminishing quantity with
the oldest; but still they are possibles. Obi, for the
G. N. Hurdle Race, is a notable case in point. He
won the event seven years ago with a light weight
up, carried list. 51b. into third place the next
year, and won again in 1913 with list. 71b. to his
credit. And the ancient is still going strong. This
year lie is handicapped at list, lib., whilst such
as Jullunder and Van Homreigh, being comparatively
young horses, are asked to meet their old opponent
on at least 201 b. worse terms than before, Then
for the G. N. Steeple the old familiar Booligal is
reckoned to be one of the most likely at 12st. 21b.,
which is 211 i. less than his last year’s burden. Bool-
igal has been rushing to the front since the time
when the youngest ot modern young men were lads
in knickers. 11c is like the history that keeps on
repeating itself. People wonder when he will be old
enough to have lost all his dash. Then there’s Corad-
jill, who gave Rendrock 1811). and a beating over
the big jumps last July. The handieapper puts them
on level terms this time. Rendrock is still on the
up grade where age and experience count in his
favor, whilst Coradjill is fairly supposed to be get-
ting- the worse for wear. Still, he is probably a
safer jumper than ever he was. While there’s life
there’s hope with a long-seasoned ’chaser, whereas
the sprinter on the fiat begins to weaken at an ago
when the jumpers are making a reputation. All
things considered it is natural for the baldheads to
take a keener interest in racing over the sticks than
iri sprints down the straight.
■* * * *
The hurdle race at Caulfield last Satur-
day was an outing for 22 Grand National candidates
who will mostly go to the post a fortnight later;
but experience lias proved that the two miles at
Caulfield are only sometimes a test of what seem
to be the brightest G. N. chances. The journey at
Flemingthn is half as long again, and over the longer
course jumping ability matters twice as much. Still,
there was significance in the fact that the first, second
and fourth in the finish of the Toolambool Hurdle
were in the nine- to 10-stone division, whilst the top
weights were all behind. Merunqua (9st. 61b.) and
the warm favorite Bundong (9st. 111 b.) fought out
the final, and although the winner seemed to wear
down the runner-up in the last few strides it may he
that Bundong was unlucky to get beaten. He must
have lost a lot of ground by being always second to
Red Corn for a mile and a half. That handsome
horse ran wildly, and Bundong followed in his zig-
zag track.
This being admitted, it is still hard to believe
that Eric Connolly’s alleged “good thing” is certain
to turn tlio tallies on Merunqua at Flemington. They
are equally well-bred for stamina; they are of the
same ago. and will meet on the same terms as
before. Judging them on their looks anyone might
indeed prefer Merunqua, the son of Carbinier, whose
stock are mighty over the sticks when they happen
to bn very fit. Of the horses that shaped best among
the others, lied Corn, King Mostyn, Nick-a-. Tack, Gold.
Wave. Thaletas and Van Homreigh will meet the
two leaders on at least 71b. better terms over tiie
three miles. Were he a more reasonable and prac-
tised jumper Red Corn would be a favorite, but in
the light of Saturday’s erratic performance he lias
a poor show for tiie National. Fastolf, who was
going strong at the business,end of the job, will this
time meet Merunqua awl Bundong on only lib. better
terms, and Thaletas, the hope of Scobie’s stable,
shaped too badly to inspire confidence. Unless some-
thing happened to him in the race to accodnt for his
falling back, he will be only a forlorn hope at
Flemington.
The biggest surprise of a rather surprising day
was Icon’s brilliant victory in the Steeplechase.
Whereas Thaletas had been strongly fancied for tiie
other jumping event, stable-companion Icon was seem-
ingly unbacked for the Steeple. Yet lie ran beside
Booligal in the lead until the top-weight blundered
and lost liis rider, after which there was only Icon
in it. The runner-up. Oaibye, performed more than
respectably if, as stated, this was his first attempt
over big jumps. All the same, his performance didn’t
guarantee Caibye’s ability to get round the 25-fur-
longs course at Flemington. Which remark applies
also to Old Mungindi. whose jumping was labored.
In fact, the experts are almost unanimous in thinking
that, although the son of Poseidon could take the
brush fences at Randwiek safely enough, he will
surely come to grief at stiffer obstacles. Even two
miles at Caulfield seemed to trouble him. Rendrock.
who finished behind Old Mungindi on Saturday, will
be better worth backing for the Grand Nat. three
weeks later. He promises to be trained to the hour,
and only bad luck can stop him from getting a place
in the big Steeple, notwithstanding that he has been
penalised two stone for running- second last year.
*. * * *
Defence, the old imported son of Carbine,
ran a good race at Caulfield. The old chap, who
has often bloomed in the winter when the going
suits his poor feet, was a trifle better than old
Aleconner at a difference of 151 b. But the star per-
former of the afternoon on the flat was two-vear-old
St. Mira. This handsome youngster appears to have
improved a lot of late. He has wop four races in
convincing style, and may grow into a stayer rather
than a brilliant squib like liis lialf-brother Anttoil.
F. S. Meyers, who fought the V.R.C. so pluckily and
won some races with Golden Wire, is the owner of
St. Mira. Thusfar he has never raced a horse that
wasn’t worth while, which is more than a lot of
owners can say.
The conditions of the G. N. Hurdle Race
this year make a reasonable attempt to safeguard the
stake against surprise attacks from the light brigade.
In the first place the declaration of the handicap was
delayed until 16 days only before the event. Also
the penalties are to be imposed with some regard to
fairness. Gees handicapped at 9st. to 10st., inclusive,
are penalised 71b. for one win. or 121 b. for two
wins after declaration of weights, whereas the 1
penalties are diminished for the higlier-weiglited
battlers. This new and logical rule, by the way.
should be applied to flat races. Yet the object
thereof is defeated in a measure by the fact that the
winners of the hurdle and steeple at Caulfield
last Saturday, a fortnight previous to the National,
are allowed exemption from penalties. If this is
permissible in one case, why not in all ? It would
be to the interest of any club to attract the candi-
dates for an imminent big handicap by promising
that they would not be penalised for winning.
Whilst the entries for the Nationals are
fewer than usual, the strength of the visiting forces
looks greater than usual. True, there was not much
encouragement to back King Mostyn for the Hurdle
or Olil MUngiudi for the Steeple on their first prac-
tice over the Flemington sticks. The hurdler jumped
high enough to tire himself in competition with the
take-it-in-their-stride fellows over a long course,
while Old Mungindi, instead of acting up to his
Sydney reputation for leaping like a stag, shaped
rather clumsily and cut his stifle. But that was a
month previous to the G. N. Steeple, and the horse
was dead out of practice.
When initldie-ageij Maoriland punters hear
that 20 to 1 was on offer about Immortal for the
Nursery Handicap at Rosohill on Saturday they are
going to feel sorry they didn’t got a passport and take
a holiday. This Martian youngster is one of the
Greenwood string brought over to Sydney lately by
It. D. Mason. Though he had shown pace ii» a few
sprints at Randwiek since arrival it was generally
thought that he was not. forward enough to win. This
view was apparently shared by the stable. It was
all wrong, however, for tiie nag won with a good deal
to spare. But the field was a weak one and the
event a mere scramble over half a mile and 165
yards. Immortal was originally nominated for the
A.J.C'. Derby, but attention with a knife has made
him ineligible.
• # ♦ *
The racing year had a bad beginning for
MacShortodds, Ltd., but most of the coin that drifted
away while the favorites were winning around Sydney
every Saturday has moved back again. During the
last few months the firm has been doing very well
and continued to do it at Rosehill on Saturday. One
favorite, an even-money chance, put in an appear-
ance ; five others were delayed. Tiie winners were at
this rate —evens, 4's, 20’s (twice), 7’s and G’s. It
was quite a good day. There was a matter of £4400
diverted to the machine, £846 being the largest
investment on a race. These figures, as usual, give
Ike nothing to worry about.
* * * *
There was a run on Common Law for the
Rosehill Handicap on Saturday, though it would be
difficult to find a rational excuse for it. And once
again punters lost their money. This time it was
La Penna who won, and not out of her turn either,
tiie consistent Kenilera missing by half a length.
Or # V »
Few men knock
more joy out of their
pastimes than J. Felix
Booth. When not nib-
bing hands gleefully
at his horses flashing
past the judge, he
pulls on an ancient
hat and rolls ’em up
with Victoria Park
bowlers, or joins a
howling band that
travels with the label
of “The Knuts.” At
present this band is
roaming about the
Northern Rivers. As
a. magician Felix
Booth knocks dull care
to the winds; any
smoke-room is happy
that can get a move
on thi s am a teur
wizard. In calmer
moments he helps to
manage • the Hordern
estate.
FELIX BOOTH,
turf enthusiast and
“ Kurnrll ’ of the
“Knuts" (holders).
Acting-Premier Fuller lias been making
sad remarks about what he calls “captious criticism”
regarding, the way the totalisator has been worked on
X. S. Wales courses. Exception has been taken to
(I) the frequency of mistakes in calculating divi-
dends; (2) alteration of the figures denoting invest-
ments after the start of races; (3) muddle in the
issue of tickets ; (4) excessive dawdle in the pay-out
department; (5) the generally forbidding and hen-
house character of the arrangements ;• (6) a system
which makes the machine useless for revenue purposes
to racing clubs; and (7 and chiefly) the inaugura-
tion of the totalisator as a mere side-show, Mae-
Shortodds being retained on the premises. If this
criticism is captious it would be interesting to have
Fuller’s definition of cogency. What has been said
under these several headings is either true or false.
If the criticism rests on fact it repeals a state of
affairs that is objectionable, in which case Fuller
might employ his time much more profitably in de-
signing amendments of his wretched system than in
making vague excuses for it. The test of the thing
is simple. Can Fuller discover any racing man who
does not regard the performance up to date as an
exhibition of fatuous blundering?
At Warwick Farm on a recent Saturday £3682
was put into the totalisator on six races. Result:
£llO 9s. for the club to encourage racing with and
pay for running the machine: £260 for the Govern-
ment. At least, this would have been the result
if £175 too much had not been handed out to the
public on the first race. Holders of tickets on Rush-
cutter were presented with £3 13s. instead of
£2 18s. 6d., and backers of the second, Algous,
got £1 7s. 6d. instead of £l. This it transpired was
due to the arithmetic getting tied up in the cus-
tomary knot. The machine therefore started opera-
tions on the next race with a heavy deficit. There
are some captious individuals who look on totalisa-
tors afflicted like this with a sour eye.
* * * *
When it was noticed that a nag which
arrived next to the winner of a Sydney trot the other
day had been supported by 0 investors on the totali-
sator tiie problem of what should be done next was
suspended while the club considered the situation.
The result was that hackers of the winner divided
75 per cent, of the pool: backers of all the other
mokes cut up the remainder, less commish, of course,
in each case. Which was foolishness. What ought
to have been done was to pay out on the winner
alone, dividing all the money in hand between
holders of tickets on that horse.
The idea of making the war loan compete
with the totalisator was tried at Albion Park, Bris-
bane, on Saturday. Result—Ll put into war bonds;
L 11,000 put through the machine. What reason
there was for expecting that punters would suspend
their search for the winner and buy investment
securities this page could not detect. Punters go
to race-meetings to back horses, and it would be
just as reasonable to grumble about them not chang-
ing their minds as it would be to set up platforms
outside drapers’ shops and harangue the ingoing mul-
titude on the patriotism of remaining outside and
putting what they had in their purses into war bonds.
This method of trying to “encourage thrift” repre-
sents such an absurd waste of time and thriftless
dissipation of effort that it is hard to avoid the
suspicion that the people concerned are hunting for
some cheap advt.
It is no use producing figures about the
totalisator when it gets the kind of run it receives
in N. S. Wales. Here arc the divs. paid on first and
seqpnd horses at a recent meeting in Maoriland:
£3 os. 6d. and LI 11s. 6d.; L 4 10s. and L 2
7s. 6d.; LIC 6s. Gd. and L 3 Bs.; £29 Bs. 6d. and
L 4 55.; £4B 15s. and £l7 6s. 6d.; £6 11s. and
£2 15s. 6d.; £lB 9s. 6d. and 14s. If the N. S.
Wales Government wants to see what the tote can
do let it change the basis on which the commission
is divided for the A.J.C. Spring meeting at Rand-
wick, and, having done this, issue invitations, to
MacShortodds to attend a fishing excursion for that
week, attendance of every known or suspected odds-
merchant, relative, employee or scout to be com-
pulsory. This would give the machine a fair chance,
and if the results didn’t lead to a complete recon-
sideration of Israel, then the Israelite would be the
most surprised individual east of Bourkc.
* * * *
Henry Turner, an old Flemington identity,
retired from the V.R.C. service the other day. Turner,
more widely known to Melbourne as the original d.e.
doorkeeper' at the Princess’s Theatre, who migrated
to Her Majesty’s, had been in charge of the Birdcage
at Flemington for 29 years. The VtR.C. committee
didn’t let him go without its personal blessing and
a purse, which is in no danger of being invested on
a dead cert. Twenty-nine years of Flemington have
convinced Turner that although some gees are better
than others none are good enough to back. He is
still holding on to his gate-warden job at Caulfield,
because it provides something to sit down upon, and
is conveniently situated.
“0.1 v.” : Died the other day old Peter Par-
slow, of Ballarat, a trainer-jockey who gave the
immortal Tommy Corrigan his first winning mount
just 50 years ago; and old Peter’s memory shines in
the reflected glory of the wild Irish boy’s. Corrigan
was rale Oirish when he rode 8.A., wid a mother
who talked native Irish and sang it. All the same,
she was a Jewess, begorra! And, being a Jewess,
mother Corrigan was a shrewd business woman,
dealing in poultry and driving around in her old
spring cart wid the live goods aboard. Those were
the days when sport was sport, and steeplechasing
was almost as rough-and-ready as prizefighting.
There were fights in those days. Peter Parslow
could tell of the fight with the “raws” between
Joe Price and Jack Wilkinson (miners both) at
Milkmaid’s Flat, near Castlemaine, in 1863. Joe
and Jack settled an old feud by fighting for a £1
wager, the quid being thrown in for sport’s sake.
The battle lasted 96 rounds, and both men regretted
that it didn’t go the full 100. After round 50 had
ended in his disfavor Price was advised to quit with
the honors of war; tint he merely gazed heavenwards
and said: “What for? It's not near sundown yet!"’
“Enrobso” : That par. (B. 14/6/T7) about
the cove who got his five- and single-quid notes mixed,
and incidentally made a haul on the tote in S.A.,
chronicles a more cheerful experience than someone
I know had at Randwiek. Ho put his last bob on
Tapwater or something, and it romped home. Ex-
citedly flapping his wings, with the winning ticket
in one extremity, he steered for the collection-box
—and on the road a pirate grabbed it and got away.
There is no need to kiss the Book, for, if necessary,
I can produce the mug.
* # * *
It was .Timmy Hill and Benny Palmer at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday. But it will not be
Jimmy any more. The disturbance was quite polite
until the fifth round, when Benjamin smote .Timmy
on the neck. Ifill made no attempt to escape delivery,
and the smack had most amazing consequences. Hill
went down before it and took the count. It looked
red hot enough for the management to invite .Timmy
to attend a meeting. Result —disqualification for Hill
and donation of the end of the wad he was after to
a pati-iotie fund. Hill has always been a misguided
sort of citizen, but ho is a very accomplished boxer —
easily the most brilliant Australia has produced of
recent years—and the remaining feathers will now
be able to argue the matter among themselves in
greater security.
Ed. Lynngh showed up at Brisbane
Stadium again on Saturday for another helping of
Wave Geike. Edward had an idea of bashing friend
Geiko off the map early in the proceedings, but
Waverly had made other arrangements, and declined
to efface himself. The bother finished much in the
same way as the previous scrap. Lynngh had Geike
anyhow about the'twelfth session, but couldn’t quite
settle him, and then commenced to hit the mat
himself. And the last time was in the sixteenth,
when to break the monotony Lynagh rested for the
full term.
*»* ■ *
Kenneth Taylor, lieutenant of British
siege artillery, killed in France the other day, was
a son of P. T. Taylor, one of the recently-appointed
N.S.W. Leg. Councillors, and chairman of Sydney
Ferries. Young Taylor was one of the finest all-
round athletes produced by the C.E. Grammar
School a l North Sydney. For two years ho stroked
the school's champion eight-oar crew, and he was
also one of its Rugby football team.
Obit, .Tack Whittle, D.C.M., V.C.. the
Speck’s amateur heavyweight undefeated champion
for three years in succession. All his contests in
the ring were won by the other fellow hitting the
floor and staying there. Only on one occasion did
he train for a contest, and that was when North
Queensland's representatives visited Hobart some
years ago; and there was no wilder man than Jack
when he thought of the good things he had gone
without, for his opponent stopped a right swing in
the first round and took no further interest in the
evening’s entertainment. It was a treat to watch
Whittle trucking timid horses for field artillery.
Linking hands with the sergeant-major, and shoul-
ders under their rumps, they lifted the animals
bodily in. Three other brothers have seen active
service—one of them is dead.
Major C. .T. Tozer. A.A.M.C.. after serving
in Gallipoli and in France, has recovered sufficiently
from wounds received in the latter fire zone to take
charge of a military hospital in London. In tue
days before the Great Scuffle he was a member of
Sydney ’Varsity first-grade eleven. Another
cricketer to join the Army Medical Corps is R. J.
Park, once in the Vic. inter-State team.
Killed by an engine on the trans-
continental line a few weeks ago, Dan Shea, known
in almost every part of X. S. Wales. At one time
he was reputed to be Australia's best rough-and-
tumble tradesman. lie was an old opponent of Joe
Goddard and Dunn.
* * * *
“Kola”: The question whether the hare
objects £o being coursed is as old as the hills. I have
seen hundreds of matches in the open, but have not
yet grown fond of the business. Some dogs pick the
hare up by the neck, and run about shaking the
squealing animal to death. This is always horrible.
But once 1 saw a hare deliberately refuse to take
cover. She led the dogs a dance all over a big
paddock, and when at last they were very weary, she
laid her ears back and ran straight away from them.
At another place this happened. One dog gave up.
The other soon after had enough and lay down. The
hare crawled up a hill and went into camp. On
inspection the dog which remained longest and the
hare were both found to be dead. Exhaustion in
each case. Oh, yes, it is great sport this, and hares
are very fond of it 1
“The Wanderer” : It was recently recorded
that while shooting at Manly in a match competi-
tion, J. A. S. Balmain, at 500 yards, scored 35 con-
secutive bulls. Ilis next shot was an inner. That
is very good, but Wingham, on the Manning, has
the champion “scorer” of Australia. E. L. Row-
ling, local manager of the Commercial Bank, shoot-
ing at 500 yards in August, 1010, scored 02
consecutive bulls. The world’s alleged record for
the same range is held by a Yank who, at Wakefield,
Mass., registered 110 bulls. The marker said so,
anyway.
* * ♦ *
“Eryandcr”: Balmain’s recent remarkable
score at Manly, 35 consecutive hulls at 500 yards,
recalls some other figures. In the ’92 Elcho Shield
match, two of the U.S.A. team, at 1000 yards, scored
74 out of a possible 75. In '94, Captain Gibbs, at
1100 yards, made 71 out of 75, and at 1000, in pull-
ing off 248 out of a possible 250. he made 37 con-
secutive hulls. In ’9O, at Bisley, Sergeant Wood
made the h.p. at 2.00, 500 and 000 yards, making
also a bull with each sighting shot. With (lie 303
rifle, Sir Henry Halford, in ’O4, won the 000 yards
trial with all bulls. 'l’he best service-rifle 1000 yards
score is Sergeant Pulton’s 10 bulls in 11 shots. One
of the hulls was a sighter, and the only non-hull was
due to an unexpected gust of wind.
“C.J.W.”: Fish is it? Well, a few weeks
ago there were some to be seen at Byron Bay—a
shoal of mullet covering about 21 acres, shepherded
by a dozen sharks and some king-fisli. The shoal
came around the cape into the bay. and following
the beach round passed under the jetty. The fish
were in enormous numbers fully 10ft. deep and the
procession took half an hour to pass the wharf. When
last seen the 'shoal was near Brunswick Heads, still
patrolled by the shark and king-fish, which were
dining copiously off the edges. There are enough
mullet now running on the coast of N. S. Wales to
feed all Australia for a year.
* * * *
Otago (M.L.) Acclimatisation Society’s
shoulder gave M.L. trout industry another push along
last year. The trout division showed: Distribution,
449,288: ova sold, 425,500 ; retained for stock,
102,200—total, 976,983.
“B.B.” : The most exciting moment evc>r I
had as an angler was when, as a youngster, I was
fishing for “kingies” off Petane bridge, Napier
(M.L.) —a noted place for Ihese imperial gents. I
was sitting outside the rails on a girder and the
slack of my line was wound around a piece of stick
and jambed inside my coat pocket. All of a sudden
there was a jerk on the string, followed instantly by
a yell and a body hurtling through space. I was the
body. I think I went to the bottom; still my
trouble might have been worse. If the heavy-weight
at the hook end hadn’t broken the line the light-
weight at the opposite end would have been going
yet.


#
Do You Wish to Enjoy
Perfect Health?
Nature intended you to be strong, vigorous and healthy.
The various organs of your body have certain functions to
perform. It is your duty to see that these organs arc not
over-taxed or run down, which will prevent them from
properly fulfilling their respective functions. For instance,
constipation, indigestion and other disorders of the system
are the direct result of your internal muscles being much
below normal—tailing in their duty.
In order to enjov perfect health it is only necessary for you
to build up your internal muscles, strengthen your lungs,
digestive organs, etc.
My Postal Course of Health S Strength Exercises
will make you fit, and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen, and unseen,
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that drive
a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the system
—nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling waste
tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part of your
body.
The Baker Exercises consist entirely of good exercises based
on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
Let me send you a copy of my Booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE.” It tells all about my
health-giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send three
penny stamps for postage, dust write your name and address
across this advertisement. I’ll know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,’’
625 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
m
HOT SHOT w |
B ATT E RY j
FOR MOTOR IGNITION |
'"“sr.v.r^
For Heavy
Current Needs
COLUMBIA Batteries can be
used as the sole source
of ignition current for battery
systems or as an' auxiliary source
in connection with magnetos. They
are easily connected in the circuit.
Coliimbla
HOT SHOT
Batteries
are multiple-cell unit batteries partic-
ularly adapted where a number of cells
are needed. They may also be used for
ignition, for starting, for auxiliary, for
emergency and for<*lighting. Being
moisture-proof, they are especially
adaptable for motor boat use.
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are
packed in moisture-proof cartons and
guaranteed to give satisfactory results i
whatever climatic conditions may be.
Dealers: Immediate deliveries
can be made. Secure Cata-
logues and Terms from your 1
dealer or from us:
National Carbon Company ,
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A. j
Export Department
Cable Address: “Carbon Cleveland"
SfiiiKSe fi
# V# >
> • \
r
Jn Any 0
Condition
n
11
BENZINE
IS
U
THE SPIRIT"
OF THE WAR
THE ENEMY OF
BRITISHERS
ENEMIES.
SAMSON HORNS
Every Motorist Wants a Good Horn, and they
get it in the “SAMSON,” which can be used
in five different positions.
No. 35 “Samson-Tiger” (11" over all), 25/- each
No. 36 “Samson-Tiger" (Motor-cycle), 24/6 each
No. 45 “Samson-Lion” (9%" over all), 21/- each
No. 46 “Samson-Lion" (Motor-cycle), 21/- each
The above Hand Horns Post Free anywhere in
Australasia. Vibrator and Motor Horns from
16/-. Ask for Catalogue No. 3008.
RAMSAY SHARP & CO. LTD.,
217 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Write for Appointment as District Agent.
The Architect
saves time, and kei ps in
closer touch with his work
The Surveyor
covers more ground,
does a bigger day’s work
•The Rural Worker
has all Australia as a
market for his labour
The Doctor
gets there quicker,
raa.tes more calls
might be in your Profession, Business or Trade?
Catalogue “D" with Pleasure .
PATON
Have You Thought
How Valuable the
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd., 109-113
Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros., 166 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide
and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE : Eyes & Crowle Ltd.. 75-79 Pirie Street
LAUNCESTON : John King & Sons Ltd., Charles Street,
k PERTH : Armstrong Cycle sind Motor Agency, Hay Street.
E.DGAR ALLCN & C"L
* smrmm ' ;
1. *
Write tor Particulars and Quotations
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bali Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
The Big Vote was National
and
NATIONAL Benzine
is the Trustworthy Spirit of To-day.
For Economy, Cleanliness and Power it has
irrefutably proved its great superiority.
Obtainable from All Storekeepers and Garages.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
West Victoria Square, ADELAIDE, S.A.
SIIVIIIKKKI
■in
mm
%
mwtiHi,
mm $
Yju know this smile—but do you know-
EVERMORE
si#
dotted
Arrows shovy
Diagonal
R«jsor
io Demonstraleit
x.
o»»ed
Show
Diagonal
«-
iIF UNPROCUfiABLE WHITE BOX—IOOS <sJ>6> SYDNEY \
C . P O.
&
fivermore
Smile
STROPPER
Price 15/~
The only automatic Strapper
which g|ves the true Slijde-Stroke
so essential in sharpening any
razor.
Social adapters are provided
with each Stropper joc the,
sharpening of any make of
safety-razor blade both singJe
and double ec^ed.
(XHWi SOWN .
srigssr l ”
Ifas>r
m


Now is the time to buy
THE s ALL-BRITISH
ONOTO PEN!
dfas
BRITAIN
leads in
Fountain
Pens The
Pen that
does not
leak, that
fills itself
and cleans
itself in fil
ling, is Bri
tish made
It is the
Onoto — the
pen that ne
ver scratches
or splutters
that writes
readily and
o t h 1 y.
and isalways
ready to
write. Getan
Onoto now.
It is the best
pen made in
Britain o r
anywhere
throughout
the world,
insist on the
dfa
Onoto
Self-Filling - -|]UiM|
Safely Fountain M
PRICE, 1 4/6. Mild upwards of all
Stationers. Jewellers and Stores
Manufacturers—Thomas de la Rue
a Co. Ltd.. Bun hi 11 Row. London, E.C.
Managing Agents—Norman Baker Si
Longhurst. York Street. Sydney.
Ask for Onoto Ink the best for all Pens
Ball Bearings.
Radial Types.
it II
13,300 Series
Light Type
1200 Series
Light Type
SHED
2200 Series
Wide Type
1300 Series
Medium Type
2300 Series
Wide Type
400 Series
Heavy Type
1400 Series
Large, Extra Heavy Type
GARDNER, W£RN
& CO
Melbourne .. . . 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane 369 Queen Street.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
Quaf'ty,
Finish
The
TRESS,
reg? mark
guarantees
Character
CAPS
HATs
AND
Of ell First- c/ass hfatl&rs throughout the Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OfTRESSsC?L TD LONDON ENGLAND,
TEL.. U 7114.
T. PURCELL ®. CO..
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine-Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
He’s worthy of
the very best
Your boy at the Front needs
Cigarettes to smoke every day.
Are you keeping him regularly
supplied ? If not, send him
some “De Reszke” Cigar-
ettes — he's worthy of the very
best. Buy ihein yourself. Post
the parcel with your own
hands. Then you know they
arebouttdto reach him safely.
Sold Everywhere
[)«=*Retake
CICMKTTCS
r'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourna.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
safeguard yoor HealtH
qY J.Collis Srownes
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE «E»T MKOIC1AE 1014
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BJtONCHITIS and
•CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, S/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
v:
\ypr'l
V *•-X^/S’sV:®
r .' ■ w/.r-r \ k *}V.»t':?!;'*'i’”S?i
• 1 "•• ••■• •-■*■-"•••
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Proven Remedy
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitution*,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New l_i.e and h-nergy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes:
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Uebihty.
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D.. C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
ittHi
wenne
«“'*■ 'wsrJ.*.
“Stargazer”: We are told that j.C.W.,
Ltd., had “The Pink Lady” in possession
for some years before daring to try it on
the dingo in Sydney. Apparently J.C.W.,
Ltd., dreaded the consequences. Either they
did not think much of the opera or they
thought double-dashed little of the taste of
their patrons. I believe public taste was
vindicated by a successful season in Sydney.
I am hopinsr Melbourne will also express em-
phatic approval at the box office, as “The
Pink Lady” is at least a mile and a half up
the descending scale of artistic merit in the
class to which it belongs, whereas much of
the stuff produced while this cheerful show
was kept in the box was so low down that a
critic had to dig a hole to find the proper
place for it. “The Pink Lady” is compara-
tively neat and decent. True, it does bare
the backs of one ballet tfll there is some
danger of the dancers displaying a clean
pair of heels, but the entertainment gets
its effects in the main through the intrusive
merit of its people and its material. A frivol-
ous musical show in which the female
characters are not caterwauling with aggres-
sive abandonment in pursuit of the male is
quite a refreshing change.
“Circle” : Theadvantage of the picture show
is that it is there all the time at a price so
moderate that even the meanest is willing
to pay it to fill in the odd half-hour or hours.
Why can’t we get decent music in the same
way—cheap, comfortable halls attended by
strings of instrumentalists and singers who
would supply programmes of music ranging
from popular to good? I like good music
frequently, but (1) I don’t want too much
of it at a time, (2) don’t want to pay several
shillings, (3) don’t want to “dress,” (4)
can’t be bothered reserving a certain night
for Miss Piano’s concert two weeks hence. I
believe many good musicians are scratching
hard for money and publicity now. Seems
to me that nightly Is. and 6d. “pops” would
help them out and be a boon to thousands
of appreciative blokes who hardly know the
names of these artists.
“C. Blin”: “Madame Alda,” whom Aus-
tralia bred and knew as Frances J. Adler,
was the prize canary in the first production
of Zandonai’s latest opera, “Francesca da
Rimini,” in New York a while ago. The Aus-
tralian revealed the heartbreaks of Fran-
cesca in heaps of impassioned language put
into her mouth by Gabriele d’Annunzio, and
also warbled some enthralling music which,
in the opinion of the critics, was reminiscent
of Verdi at his melodious maturity. Con-
ductor Gatti-Casazza, Mrs. Alda’s husband;
made the large orchestra behave while his
missus was singing.
“Stargazer”: One contemptible feature of
the pictures from a pro.’s point of view is
that you need not be an actor or an actress
to be a big success. , Take Billy Bourke.
She is a tremendous popular favorite, and
films unfolding her airs and graces sell all
over creation at fancy prices. But Billy
Bourke is not in any sense an actress. She is
a picture actress only in the sense that she
makes pictures. She is always delightful as
a spectacle; as a machine for conveying
human emotions she is about as eloquent as
a wooden doll. She uses precisely the same
facial gymnastics for a murder as for a
canoodle. When her popularity in this line
fades, she should be utilised in kinemato-
graphic guessing competitions.
“0.K.” : I predict that the lurid and “in-
tense” melodrama at “the pictures” will
gradually fall out in favor of plays with
moral lessons in them. One or two of the
latest and most appreciated farcical comedies
have had excellent morals for domestic life,
and were calculated to make the missus
bring the old man or the man bring the wife
and kiddies. But the lurid melodramas!
At the worst they are horribly absurd, and
the craze for them is bound to pass. Film
plays of mild correction and gentle adjura-
tion will hold the screen presently. The
thing to be truly thankful for is that musical
comedy and revue can never come into
vogue. Nor theatrical farces of the sort
that live only on their rush of incident —the
pauses for printed explanation would kill
them.
Some adoring flappers, daughters of a
squattocrat, came down to town to flat for
a season and happened to strike the sacred
house that once sheltered a beloved star
tenor. “Which was his flat?” yearned the
youngest flapper to the soulless caretaker.
“That there,” growled the official. “Him
and his missus lived, and ate. and slept in
the one room. When they were gone there
was a bunch of onions and a piece of steak
hanging to tbe gas jet; and I’ve had a pretty
time gettin’ the grease and garlic out of
every corner of the room.” Young Romance
squeaked and recoiled.
The “house full” placard as an advt. has
its uses, but it was turned against one wise
proprietary in Melbourne on the night of
King’s Birthday. Some dozen too-eheerful
spirits in the stalls took over all the “house
full” cards they could seize, and when an
item on the stage displeased them—as often
happened—they jubilantly displayed the
large, printed admonition, brandishing
“House Full” persistently till the performer
desisted.
THE VERACIOUS SPRUIKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The ‘spruiker,’ associated chiefly with picture
theatres and side-shows, has invaded the domains oi
trade. In at least two of the industrial suburbs
butchers have employed these voluble publicity agents,
instead of modestly allowing their wares to speak for
themselves.’’— Argus.
An early winter morning found
The picture spruiker eloquent;
He was by Biggs, the butcher, bound
To roar in noble tones anent
Beef, mutton, lamb, frys, chops, pigs’ feet
And gaudy piles of sausage meat.
I found him far more than resigned ;
To him it was a life of ease ;
No longer need he comb his mind
For picturesque mendacities —•
The spruiker could in speeches vast
Talk “tripe’’ with perfect truth at last.
VICTORIA.
JEAN S.


A SHELL FOR YOUNG AUSTRALIA
UK (SE
w
\
Q
c>
a
m
m
*
©
op
w.
K
PP
rs
i
r?
um
Master-Painters Association Urges Everyone to Support the Big Australian Industry.
At the recent visit to Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Mills, at Parramatta, of forty-five representatives of the Master-Painters’ Association,
the President, Mr. R. Rnmsey, and the Secretary, Mr. W. Mason, emphasised in their speeches that but for Meggitt’s Mills the
trade to-day would be without supplies. Meggitt’s were standing by them splendidly ; they all realised that there was no better
oil on the world’s markets, and for the good of Australia and themselves all should loyally stand behind the big Australian industry.
From all Stores, or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne; Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers,
26 King Street,
Sydney,
N.S.W.


IT!
!!!i
i : /. :
h
\
He cannot bear the sight
of food
Eating produces Nausea, Heartburn, Acid
Risings in the Throat, Flatulence and Vomiting
undigested food. When he reads or applies
himself to business. his eyes ache and bum, and
he get pains in the head. His mind is listless
and memory impaired. The vigor of life has
departed—he sees no use in making an effort,
gives way to despair and is tired of life. But
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIO
at once attacks all these symptoms. One by one
they disappear and he feels a new man. Fishers
Phospherine energises the whole system and can
be taken with benefit by sufferers from Indigestion,
Aciditv, Muscular Rheumatism, Backache, Mal-
aria, Headache, Brain Fag, Nervousness and
Neuralgia.
All Chemists and Stores.
Iper Bottle. Four times the quantity, 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Meats Ear Phone '“any times as efficient
meaia Lai mane and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
yJUSTIJALIAN
PRODUCTS
*sS»»«rtS^
m
tm
m
' $3
9K
WM.
m
UtJ (?
WKO^TI
* lMt *''li»k,i y„
I*‘wic7UttD#' r
J pARRY&P
/V.3.W ;- *-
PICKLES
Thatftyucmt
with the
Fruiti/Flcalovj
- For m
Quality
Unequalled
hruM
I! WORCESTERSHIRE.
I SAUCE
AIanu/adijre</ by
J. PAOTY&C^
food Speciahsls Sydney
sdf
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
n
Zr.
>
t ‘*it
/
n
Vk
i
m
m
For the Roof
of Your Home
you want a roofing that will last and one that will keep your
home warm in winter and cool in summer —an attractive
roofing that cannot break, rust or leak. You get all this in
WfclMifcgO
COSTS MORE-WEARS LINGER
We recommend pU-BER-OIQ be-
cause we know that it will give you
lasting satisfaction. It costs more
than ordinary prepared roofings,
but it is cheaper by the year. Our
customers who have used it know
its worth and long life.
*U -BER-OIQ is solid through and
through. It is permanently water-
proofed with a compound of high-
grade animal and vegetable sub-
stances. It contains no coal-tar or
asphaltic oils that might crack in
cold weather or run in hot weather.
gtU-BER-OIQ Roofs applied more
than 20 years ago are still giving
perfect service without repairs. You
end roof troubles when you use it.
The U. S. Court of Appeals ha 3
enjoined imitators from using the
word “Rubberoid or any similar
name as the trade name or brand"
of their roofing.
There are many imitations of
Ru -BER-OIQ. We sell the genuine,
which has the “Ru-ber-oid Man’’
(shown above) on every roll. Come
in and examine it.
Agents: A. W. 8ANDFOKD & CO., LTl)., Adelaide.
E. KICH & CO. LTD,, Brisbane.
KINGROC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOK 8, ROBINSON & CO. L.TD., Melbourne.
as
dfa
7/;
fen*
N ZZ
War - work suits the super - efficient
SUNBEAM
to perfection. It emerges supreme from the stress
of it. Our unsurpassed experience of standardising
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
of unprecedented power and proved reliability in
such strenuous employ constitutes a guarantee alike
of our ability and intention to supply the public with
finer motor carriages than ever on the coming of peace.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - - 54-62. Oxford Street. London, England
WORKS ••••»•• Wolverhampton. England
A
w
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from th.e outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win ivithout
liftino a hand?
The “Swan-Safety' 5 is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made : may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage: with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience: the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
F©«HTf»EN.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
THE
SOLDIERS’
PEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
sdf
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A Jo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.C.: All right; we’ll correct old John
Wood Fleming, of Melbourne, this way—“he saw
three bushrangers in a cart, seated on their coffins,
being taken from gaol to be hanged and buried’’....
Diogenes: (1) We know more about that ex-gent, one
than you do; (2) generalisations won’t serve his
case.... Junction: Now, if you had made use of that
elaborate scheme to prevent the tide falling or the
cost of living rising it would have been of real
value... .L.H.: 104 is she? Pass over her birth cer-
tificate for a moment.... W.li.: Thanks for your
confidence, but can’t undertake to advise re mining
specs... .Cynical Cove: (1) Send the clipping; (21
MS. not signed; (3) think this is a free-for-all libel
agency ?.... Blank: Yes, if you don’t leave some
space between your lines... .Bondi (France):
Sorry, can’t read what it’s all about....
R.C.11. (A.L.H.) : Thanks. Luck! Miss Bega :
Three pages of strained description of alleged
scenery, filled with “Ah” and “Behold.” Prithee
avaunt!... .C.S.: For such a subject that metre
lends itself to wordiness, not feeling... .8.L.11.:
Not up M.A.8.: “Valediction” the best. Irish
verses are merely a fake... .G.J.: “Shadows” a
trifle thin. . . .1.F.: No.. . .H.M.F.: Not enough skill.
... .11.J.L.: “Memories” move heavily and jolt
harshly... .J.P.D.: Too crude. .. . A.P.V.: Pretty dull
preachment that. . . . Jokai: P.F.N. business is heavy
fooling. Cut out par. and send to accountant....
G. 5.11.: Verse fair, but makes dull reading... .Pot
Luck: No joy in it... .C.F.C.: You merely repeat
the commonplaces of the hour.... Kay: Well, the
sun goes down and the moon comes up—what more?
. ...C.K.: Lumps and bumps and bad grammar and
all about nothing... .S.X.: You say it’s the first
time you’ve “touched verse.” We can’t identify it.
. ...C.J.K.: No diploifia for the A.R.A. there....
C.J.W.: Transport doesn’t swing to much purpose....
Recruit: Need a lot of drilling yet....8.T.: The
“Emu” has to kick its way home. .. . W.C.: Not our
style. Try “The Coward” on some very “patriotic”
daily. You know the sort we mean—sings “Rule
Britannia” and “God save” and then thinks the
Empire’s safe....Bluegum: No skill... .Monty V.:
No wonder your “Spring” song goes hoarse in this
weather... .R.M.8.: Not our style.. . .G.S.: An ex-
citing ride with both thought and metre bucking. .. .
L. 8.: Held for inquest L.K.: N 0... .E.M.H.:
Words chucked down anyhow don’t make verse....
G.W.1).: Dream problem doesn’t grip. .. . W.G.D.:
“Constantine” wails feebly... .Sandgroper: Fearful,
incoherent sort of preach. .. .E.C.C.: Sometimes they
rhyme, sometimes I .ay only bump, but they never
mean anything worth while.... A.8.C.: Not here....
G. 8.: Unripe, with a hint of commonplace blight. . . .
G.S.: “Secret All” has points, but lacks all the fine-
ness of treatment that might make it possible....
Ishmael: Dirty copy and slovenly thought. Refuse
to give your love to anybody... .F.C.8.: Won’t do.
. . .Cestus: Either they didn’t know verse from a
wheelbarrow or they were pulling your leg. ...W.A.:
Can’t make head or tail of it... .J.G.: You’ve a long,
long way to travel A.C.T.: Verse not up. Yarn
wobbles. No writer with imagination would worry
about a feather in that fashion. Now a “Brown
Feather” telling how the girl got shell-shock through
receiving the thing dipped in his life’s beer would
have had a thrill in it. ...J.H.: Oh, you make us
tired. Look up the pronunciation of “contrary” in
a dictionary and see if it rhymes with “faery.” How
can we help it if you don’t speak decently?....
E.W.D.: “Widow” too raw... .W.D.: Fair sonnet
of the sort most writers could turn out at the rate
of six dozen a clay. .. .F.A.M.: Goes weakly with
many jolts T.W.: Nothing A.P.8.: Just what
you would expect of a man who sprawls verse over
an acre of unwieldy paper. . . .11. G.: Fall short by
several miles. .. .D.M.C.: But the verses don’t say
anything. .. ,Te Hutte: We don’t reprint; and, any-
how, the verses sent would have had no chance if
offered first hand. . . .M.A.: Horrible thing in poor
verse... .T.J.L.: Flying verse hopeless... .C.W.C.:
Make no mistake, The B. doesn’t hang its argument
for Conscription on the turn of affairs in Russia.
Conscription, it holds, is the better of two evils and
an alternative to one that is shamefully unfair and
grossly wasteful.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.J.8.: But you’ve made old Billjim the wrong
shape... .R.H.K.C.: The curate is flat and has only
one leg. .... J.P.: Study for a few years; may be
worth it. ...H.W.: Can’t use it....E.P.: No busi-
ness. .. ,P. A. B.: Returning it. ...K.A.: But you’ve
drawn a sick wolf. Why?... .L. 8.: The fruit is good
at the top of the tree, but the accommodation is
limited. No visible reason why you shouldn’t try
to climb.... G. 11. R.: Crude work.
“Duglio” hobnobs with the aristocracy:—
This is so-help-me dinkum. The other day a
message came to our camp from Lady Pembroke,
stating that she would be pleased to entertain 75
Australian soldiers at a reception to be held at
Wilton Park. The rush to get our names in was only
equalled by the Big Push over the way. I was one
of the lucky men picked to go, and our lot marched
five miles to the historic house. We arrived tired
but cheerful, and were met by the lodge-keeper, who
handed us over to William, the head-gardener. He
took us round the grounds and explained the differ-
ence between the pansies and the cabbage-trees, and
who they were planted by. One bonzer water-cress
tree was planted by King Edward, and another by
the Duke of Plaza-Toro. We were also shown the
spot on which Shakspeare played “As You Like It,”
but it just looked the same sort of ground as that
on which McDougall topped the score at Mulligan’s
Flat. We were then informed that if we peeped
through that window we would be able to see the
Earl’s library. It was a boshter library—at least,
William said it was, and he ought to know. We
were next taken back to the entrance-gate, and our
guide said: “That’s the lot, boys. Good afternoon.”
’Struth! We formed column and marched on the
cosy caf6 in Wilton, planked down two bob a head
and had a feed. To get home we hired seats in a
car at eighteenpence a time. Mrs. Pem.’s reception
thus cost us three-and-six each and made us waste
some dinkum Australian language that we were sav-
ing up for Fritz. Our consolation was that we were
not camped at Sutton-Manderville. The boys from
there marched in something like eight and a half
miles, and most of ’em had the same march back
again! There is another invitation from Lady Pem-
broke for to-day, but as it is so long since last pay
“we have much pleasure in regretting,” etc.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
A
Am
m
XJ
>c\^r,
S» '■■
ffz
m
vs
i
i»7K
%
A-c — -jr®... ....
r
X
'■■■•
&
n
%
ii^
£
4B
W‘
*s\
C
.f
!W
■V
a*
:J2
Jr w ’
K&
&1
vV. >
*ar *
:-j
r
%
<53?
v. ...A
*3
w*'*©
/
l«
Vri
t.i
■
§»ss
8i»
M
ft*
aSs
Its
gas?
M
}£>}
?<2*
AX
fl
.‘-•••: •.
BJW ‘
>5
ggl
S3SS
SW
A
..K
4
m
«t
'■V
4
i 4
\
RSB
'A®
/V
s»s?
5
T 3
«
® 8
,r
w
ft
SraS
St
ClS**!*
a** 1
**#*s
m'l
4* Si
si§t
fy
\
W®S»e
veS
..---•
«««
w***
A
f- r
m
k
S
f*? 1 *
HR>
«Tr
*u>
(Avf
&4S
f ->■
MW»
IB
Cobra,” Sfre Boot PolisH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Is a keen
Observer, too.
In a tree
Upon a height
Chunder watches
Day and night.
From his perch
A thin wire runs
To the ever-
Waitino- mins.
o o
If of foe men
There’s a sign
o
They will flash like
COBRA shine.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apnlv
ORIENT S/V. CO., Lid.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
4Sio.' Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABEBG
•ROCKHAMPTON I
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, June 30.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, .July 4.
Leaves Sydney, July 7.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, July 11.
Leaves Sydney, July 14.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A.andW.A.ports)
south.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, July
’Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fires, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Unliking. Public Companies. Jfcc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £95,000
Directors: Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman; George
J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwoo.d, Esq. ;
Herbert R. Lysaqht, Esq.; George F. Todman,
Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. BROWN.
Manager; G. 11. lIOWELL.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. FINNEY.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. JENKINS.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) :
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11. MACARTNEY, ML A
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager; J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 «'
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.09L669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—-Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) .
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; Janies Love, Esq.
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland.
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Ranking (Jo.
of Sydney, Limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dirbs.
General Manager: H. H- Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)eui. Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. Mew Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
a: Interest, lor
fixed periods, and
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
IX ' RED ” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
(AIL W AY, Across the Famous CANADIAN liOCKIES, PRAIRIES. GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH HOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), KARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours. Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Ho’ day in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
LNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
asdf
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting 1 Peoples and Comfortable Steamers-
SEVEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTO., 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Eatablishcd 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors :
as
£3,894.930
£2.800 000
£3.894.930
£10.589.960
The lion. Sir Charles li. Alackellar, Ji.C.M.G.,
JI.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion, .lames T. Walker.
1 ne lion. Kdmund W. Kosbery, C Ji.q...
'I ho lion, lieyinuid J. liiacK, ii.L.C.
Thomas Uuculaud. Ksq.
Itichard Binnm. Ksq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq. : W. TT. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Byonsy. London offi.e 29 Threadneedlo ct , E.C
337 Branches and Agencies, in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIB EOT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular .Votes issued, negotiable throughout the World
T prcc-T.T r-i.i-vrti, Gene-al Manager. ’
Commomvealtb
| HEAD OFFICE
dfa
£ank ot Australia
SYDNEY. 1
fS? e a n n General Banking Business princß*
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Btfeiness of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
At 3.11 Branches, and over
2600 Agencies a t Post Offices
w in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAM RS KELL. Deputy Governor.
June, 1916
DENISON* MILLER. Goveri
THRIFT SUGGESTIONS
Thrift does not require superior courage, nor superior intellect, nor any superhuman
virtue. It merely requires a little patient self-denial. “BEGIN” is its device.
Even 1/- a week deposited regularly in this Bank will amount to £2O/10/7 in
seven years.
This Bank Offers You Every Facility for Saving.
Deposits received from
1/- upwards.
132 Branches and 500
Agencies throughout
the State.
mMm
$
3
3
CP
4
iu
INTEREST
ca
ON
CP
DEPOSITS
°/>
s
N
Interest paid at
3 % per annum on
every £ up to £5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution. Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
RUPARA, Saturday, June 30.
PAR) XGA, Saturday, July 7.
MORIALTA, Saturday, July 14.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Transhipping to all other Queensland Ports.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Fort of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
g. s. viin, * co„ i/ri)..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamsliips
“ Zealandia,”
“ llimaroa,''
“Riverina,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
“ Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction,
fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
( OMMON WEAT/I'H & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS. .
HUDDART PARKER LIMITEO,
CoLins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
20 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:-OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
barge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
DIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON Si CO., Brisbane; McIIAVRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. I’TY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
i WEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; aiso to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumban,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
t earner. *: G S-. Od. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer.. £ 4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
sdf
is now ob-
tainable at
no cost of
energy and
very small
one of
money, by
using a
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detachable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth
St., Melbourne; R. R. Russack, Edge-
oliffe, Sydney; Philip Frankel & Co.,
Edward St., Brisbane; Eyes and Crowle
Etd., Pirie St., Adelaide; Mr. Geo.
Carter. Western Australia.
ALL ALSTRA LI AN S visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


asd
ABBEY
SHOES
You will always find it the truest
economy to buy high-quality
articles. Therefore it will pay you
to wear Abbey Shoes —the footwear
that is most distinctive in style
and gives the longest service.
We illustrate a special highest-
grade Patent Derby _ Shoe. A
smart, “made-to-order” style.
Price - 40/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Stocked in half- and full-sizes, and
in narrow, medium and wide
fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
SAUCE
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
§
mm
&u<M
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who'will quote you price for it.
t
LxyJima.
CURES ECZEMA.
THE VERY REVEREND FATHER TREAND,
M.S.H., of Randwick Presbytery, in a letter to Mr.
S. Fielder, dated May 21, 1017, writes: “I am happy
to testify to the wonderful result of your Eczema
Cure. One of our missionaries from Papua came to
Svdnev a few months ago suffering from a severe
attack of Eczema. I advised him to try your remedy
—Exzerma —and the result has been beyond our
expectation. He has now returned to the mission-
field of Ne.v Guinea quite cured.” [4
All Chemists & Druggists, or
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
it-. 2/6
A
VON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
u vv
« 40
lift
JSL
PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS an i WORKMANSH
jhl ~
Off
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
'mmm
ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF AUSTRALIA
and DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.
SUPPLY OF OIL FULL GUARANTEED-
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftvis Street
•SYDNEY.
innm^
worn
n
No. E 6244
"MILLER”
Lighting Fixtures
Manufactured by the famous house
of ” Miller” are known and appreci-
ated the World over, they are to
be found in almost every country
throughout the Universe.
A large variety of styles
ELECTRIC, GASandOIL
for all requirements are at
your disposal.
Ascessories of every description. Look
over the "Miller” line it will pay you.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
Meriden, Conn. U.S.A.
*s.
J
•sggp*
9
■
ML
m '
p
'*4r
w
m
llf** 111
li# J.
Keep the
home Fires
burninq.^
Gives a lasting
lather and a
smooth shave
WM/A
m
■
a?
n
Guaranteed
not to dru
on the face
From all Chemists & Stores.
>;V'
Agents:
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St., Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium icin without
lifting a hand?
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
RUDYARD KIPLING.
A Diversity of Creatures.
Stories by RUDYARD KIPLING.
Dominions Edition, 3s. Gd.
Uniform Edition. Extra Crown
Bvo. (is.
Pocket Edition. Fcap. Bvo. Cloth,
4s. Gd. net. Leather, os. net.
The New Pacific: British
Policy and German Aims
By C. BRUNSDON FLETCHER.
With Preface by Viscount Bryce,
0.M., and a Foreword by the Right
Hon. W. M. Hughes, Prime Minister
of Australia. With Portraits and
Map. 7s. Gd.
The Daily Mail : “Mr. C. B. Fletcher’s
illuminating b00k... .all the more valuable now
because it warns our statesmen of the difficul-
ties which presently they will have to sur-
mount.”
THE PROBLEM OF THE COM-
MONWEALTH. With four folded
Plates. Sewed. Is. 6d. net.
A HISTORY OF THE BRITISH
ARMY. By the Hon. J. W. FOR-
TESCUE. Vol. VIII. [lBll-1812].
With a separate volume of Maps.
30/- net.
THE COMMONWEALTH OF NA-
TIONS. Edited by L. CURTIS.
Part I. 6s. net.
THE LIFE OF ALGERNON
CHARLES SWINBURNE. P»y
EDMUND GOSSE, C.B. With por-
traits and other illustrations. 10s. 6d.
net.
J. LAURENCE RENTOUL.
AT VANCOUVER’S WELL, AND
OTHER POEMS OF SOUTH AND
NORTH. By J. LAURENCE
RENTOUL, Chaplain-General C.D.F.
and A.1.F., Author of “From Far
Lands: Poems of North and South.”
ss.
THE CYCLE OF SPRING: A PLAY.
By Sir RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
3s. Gd. net.
The World: “Full of the most beautiful
thoughts and poetical expressions.”
STRAY BIRDS POEMS. By Sir
R A B I N D R A N A TII TAGORE,
Author of “Gitanjali.” With Front-
ispiece in Color by Willy Pogany.
4s. Gd. net.
The Spectator: “The book resembles nothing
so much as the Hebrew Wisdom Literature. It
consists of disjointed sayings pregnant with
shrewd sense, interspersed with short flights
of wise rhetoric. Even those readers whom
the poetic prose leaves cold must be delighted,
we think, with the proverbial philosophy....
This delightful volume.”
PROVIDENCE AND FAITH. Ex-
tracts from a Diary. By WILLIAM
SCOTT PALMER. With an Intro-
ductory Essay by Rev. CHARLES
11. S. MATTHEWS, Editor of “Faith
or Fear?” 2s. Gd. net.
THOUGHTS ON RELIGION AT
THE FRONT. By the Rev. NEV-
ILLE S. TALBOT. 2s. net.
The Westminster Gazette: “This is not a
book on which one is disposed to write at
length. One’s desire rather is to commend it
with the greatest heartiness to ail, whether
clergy or laity, who wish to understand what
the pure metal Of the Christian religion is,
and what are the high ventures to which Chris-
tianity calls men in the coming time.”
STELLA BENSON’S NEW STORY.
THIS IS THE END. By STELLA
BENSON, Author of “I Pose.” 3s.
Gd. net.
(Being No. 658 in Macmillan’s
Empire Library.)
The Times: “There is an imaginative tender-
ness in what she writes about certain dead
soldiers which shows her sensibility to be deli-
cate, rare and true ; in one of the poems with
which her chapters are interspersed she finds
just the right music for this feeling, and when
she is describing coast scenery she makes us
see it with her own seeing eyes.”
NATURE AND ADVENTURE IN
AUSTRALASIA. For Boys and
Girls. By JANE ADA FLETCHER,
Author of “Stories from Nature.”
Illustrated. Is. 6d.
ENGLAND'S FINANCIAL SU-
PREMACY. A Translation of “Die
Englische Finanzvormaeht; England’s
Falsche Rechnung: Deutschland und
die Erbschaft der City,” from the
Frankfurter Zeitung. With Intro-
duction and Notes by the Translators.
3s. net.
Complete Catalogues of Macnvllan’s Empire
Library, eto., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


fas
A £l4 Machine
Drawers, £8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol Street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
Business Notices.
APPLICATIONS are invited from mining
engineers and others qualified by train-
ing and experience to undertake the general
management of a colliery. Business capa-
city and skill in the handling of men, as well
as technical mining and engineering qualifica-
tions, are called for.
Apply in the first instance, quoting train-
ing, experience, salary expected, etc., to
COLLIERY, Box 429, G.P.0., Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ANY person knowing the whev vabouts of
ARTHUR EDMUND FOSTER, for-
merly of Charters Towers but now believed
to be resident in Sydney, will please com-
municate with the undersigned.
MARSLAND & MARSLAND,
Solicitors and Notaries,
London Bank Chambers, Charters Towers.
THE “MAXWELL” MASTERPIECE
BIRTLES IN HIS “ MAXWELL,” with which he broke Brisbane to Sydney Record by 2 hours 35 minutes.
Yes!!! It has again demonstrated its right to this title by breaking Another Record.
A SEVERE TEST.
BRISBANE TO SYDNEY, in 29 hours 3o minutes.
PREVIOUS BEST RECORD 32 hours 10 minutes.
MAXWELL’S RECORD, 29 hours 35 minutes,
Mr. Francis Birtles, the well-known Australian explorer, left Brisbane at 8 a.m. Thursday Empire
Day, for Sydney, in a stock Maxwell Touring Oar in which he had just completed a journey of 5000
miles in the. Gulf Country. The Mayor of Brisbane was present to check the time and wish him and his
two companions God-speed. They arrived at Warwick 50 minutes ahead of time, in spite of the fact
that they went 18 miles out of their way on a wrong track. They passed Tenterfleld at 4.30 p.m. and
were considerably ahead of the Brisbane Express at Scone. Mr. Birtles estimates they were deia.yed at
least 2| hours at Railway and Station Gates, but the party drew up at the G.P.0., Sydney,
at 1.35 p.m., Friday, having completed the journey of 660-odd miles in 29 hours 35 minutes, thus break-
ing the previous record by 2 hours 35 minutes. When asked if he would like the car overhauled before
going on to Melbourne, Mr. Birtles replied, “No, the car is 0.K.; tyre-carrier wants to be a little more
firmly fixed, that’s all.” “How’s that for Reliability?”
FITTED WITH BARNET GLASS BOOMERANG TYRES.
CLUTTERBUCK BROS. LTD., 26-38 City Road, SYDNEY.
IN BANANA LAND
“R.”: The Queensland Government has
won in the insurance cos.’ appeal to the
Privy Council. The litigation was all due
to the stupidity of the Leg. Council, which
put ambiguities into the Workmen’s Com-
pensation Bill. In the attempt to baulk the
Government’s proposal to make workmen’s
compensation insurance a State monopoly
it made many amendments and introduced a
clause to the effect that the Governor-in-
Council “may” grant permits to insurance
cos. to do workmen’s compensation business,
and on the granting of such permits the
insurance companies “shall” make a deposit
of £5OOO for each permit with the Treasurer
as security for the proper carrying out of
the business. But the old men of the Coun-
oil were too fast asleep to notice that clause
8 made insurance of workmen with the State
obligatory on every employer. They let that
clause stand and returned the Bill to the
Assembly. Later, the Council discovered
its error and asked to have the Bill again,
but Fihelly, the Minister who fathered the
legislation, smiled and wouldn't return it.
So it became law and the insurance cos.,
47 of them, tendered £5OOO each, and asked
for a permit. The permits were refused.
The insurance c-os., through the Australian
Alliance, then sued the Government, and
the Queensland Court found that the Gover-
nor-in-Council could give a permit or with-
hold it whether the £5OOO deposit was made
or not. The State Full Court also found
against the cos. with costs, but granted an
injunction against the State, which it agreed
had a monopoly of Workmen’s Compensa-
tion Insurance, though it might not say so.
The cos. appealed direct to the Privy Coun-
cil, and the Privy Council has blown them out
and declared for the Government. This
decision disposes of the 40 cases which were
waiting the test, and, incidentally, the decision
helps the Government to lose the early repu-
tation it had for weakness in law. In point
of fact, the Government has been astonish-
ingly successful, having won all the big suits
brought against it.
“F. 8.”: Personal experience of returned
Billjim in Bananaland proves to me the
foolishness of most of the talk on the sub-
ject of settling Bill on the land in wholesale
quantities when he has finished the big job.
Not one out of three has any inclination
A PROFESSIONAL COINCIDENCE.
BARBER: “Are you singing at the concert on deck to-night, sir?”
PROFESSIONAL : “No; I make it a rule never to sing when travelling.”
BARBER: "Same with me, sir. I never touch the scissors or a razor when Pm ashore."
that way. The favorite request made to the
Patriotic Fund people in Brisbane is for
assistance to “get into a snug little business
in town.” That comes even from very
many who before the war lived country
lives. And it won’t be otherwise, either,
until Billjim is satisfied that cockying is to
be made infinitely more attractive than at
present. That it is, on the contrary, grow-
ing less and less attractive is proved by the
fact that Queensland land selection is badly
on the down-grade. During the past four
years the number of selectors during the
first five months of each year has been:
1914, 1206; 1915, 1002; 1916, 469; 1917,
384.
Dead at 78, Joseph Robinson, sec. of the
Maryborough Gas Go. and one of the pioneers
of that thriving town. Deceased started as
a printer at Manchester (Eng.), and struck
Bananaland in ’6l. After putting in a spell
on the Maryborough Chronicle he joined
W. S. Roberts in buying out C. H. Buza-
cott in ’63. Subsequently he went into gas,
and seeretaried the co. for 33 years.
The Last Great War.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the plesiosaurs were sated with the dinosaurs’
remains
And had picked their bones to pieces on the paleo-
lithic plains,
Came their kin and sang around them: “What a
battlefield was this!
How we drove the dinosauri till they couldn’t raise
a hiss!
How we choked them with a strangle-hold and fleshed
them with a claw,
And jabbed them with a right hook underneath the
nether jaw !
How we ground their ranks to powder wiping out
the ancient score !
Therefore, lift your tuneful praises,
For the foe has gone to blazes
And the land has seen the ending of the Last Great
War.”
When the mammoth in the forest got the pterodactyl
down
And proceeded straight to crunch him from his toe-
tips to his crown,
llow he grunted as he crushed him, squeezing out
his latest breath
In a mad unholy triumph that he’d done his foe to
death!
“Now the earth will be more peaceful and the mam-
moth clan shall rule
Undisturbed by curious capers from that crazy reptile
fool;
We’ll be bosses right from Zembla to the wild Kams-
chatka shore;
There’ll be peace both far and near
And no mortal thing shall fear,
For,” they said, “we’ve seen the finish of the Last
Great War.”
When the cave-men down by Como met the cave-men
of Lucerne
’Twas a long and bitter battle and a carnage grim
and stern;
Thrice ten thousand men of Como fell beneath the
axe of stone
(For the backward louts of Como wielded truncheons
made of bone) ;
So the victors marched exultant back to shining old
Lucerne
With the very choicest pickings, which they roasted
to a turn ;
And the bard struk up a chantey that would rip your
very core
Of the olden days of slaughter
By the reddened Como water.
“But,” they said, “this is the finish —'tis the Last
Great War! ”
In the damp and tangled forest of primeval Yucatan
Rang a wild infernal struggle ’mid the tribes of
early man;
They were battling for the right to hold a granite
pyramid
Where the relics of their rulers and their wizards old
were hid;
Half a million human midgets perished nobly in their
prime
That their fame might be emblazoned on the temple-
front of Time;
And the conqu’rors got their poet out to chant ’em
o’er and o’er
Their noble ancient story
Of blood and death and glory
That now was gone for ever—with the Last Great
War.
And to-day amid the clamor of the deadliest human
strife
That e’er impeached the Keeper of the of Death
and Life,
As soon as e’er the din dies and the cannons cease
awhile
The Wise Men get a-twittering with their smug,
omniscient smile,
And they tell us (they who told us such a war could
never be
For the world would never stand it, and it couldn’t
cross the sea)
That this is the very last time we shall hear the
battle’s roar,
That the lamb shall love the lion
In the dawning Land of Zion,
For the universe has polished off the Last Great War!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 23, 1917.
My Deab Thabgojiindah,—
Capt. Thomas Macleod, a local barrister
who has been flying over Fritz’s trenches,
has been rewarded with a French War
Cross. Another Queenslander who has won
the applause of “the heads" is Capt. Bruce
Mclntosh, now nursing his fourth wound in
hospital. M.C. for him.
Hied at Cairo on June 20, Lt.-Commander
W. B. Drury, R.N., son of the late Colonel
and Mrs. Drury, once well-known Brisbane
residents. W.B. was “Director of Steamers,
Dept, of Soudan.’’ He was the first Queens-
lander to be appointed to a cadetship in the
Royal Navy (18S9). After serving in vari-
ous ships with distinction, he was appointed
for special work in Egypt and the Soudan
under Kitchener. Latterly he had not been
in good health, but his death was unex-
pected.
Last Monday night, in St. Luke’s War
Chapel, Mrs. Le Fanu unveiled a “board”
in honor of those members of the Australian
Army Nursing Service who are busy in
France, Egypt and elsewhere. There are
240 names on the memorial, which, by the
way, was erected by the Soldiers’ C. of E.
Help Society.
The Mothers’ Union District Nursing
Assoc, has bought Marley, the old Bruce Xicol
home in South Brisbane, for a maternity hos-
pital. A coin tea was held on the premises
on Thursday to raise funds for the furnish-
ing.
Yesterday was Lavender Day, organised by
the C. of E. Soldiers’ Help Society to buy
huts for the men at the Front. Over £2OOO
flowed in.
On Thursday Mrs. Huxliam and Mrs. Len-
non motored a party up to Goodna Mental
Hospital to lunch with Dr. Ellerton and his
wife. Fifteen hundred mental patients are
housed at the Institute. Mrs. Huxham made
two presentations. One was to conductor
Lamb, who has led the orchestra at the
patients’ weekly concert for the last seven
years; the other was to attendant Davidson,
an upstanding youngster who is about to go
into camp. Both presentations came from
the staff.
In line with State meat-shops and fisher-
ies _ the Government intends to link State
fruiteries. In the coming session a Bill is
to be introduced with that object. And nearly
time something was done. We’ve just learned
that while the producer receives only 2|d. a
dozen for bananas, the suffering public pays
Young Zimmerle, the winner of the Golden
Casket Art Union in aid of the Repatria-
tion Fund, is only 17. He wanted to distri-
bute his lucky-bag lavishly among his rela-
tives, but as he is an infant an application to
allow him to do so had to be made to the
Supreme Court. Leave was refused, and the
money (less £llOO, which is deducted as
State and Federal tax) is to be invested for
the lad until he is 21.
Mrs. E. S. Homer, of Indooroopilly, lost
one son at Gallipoli, and now another. Lieut.
11. W., has been killed in France —aged 23. A
third is on the West Front, and the game
father of the brave family is on his way to
the same address.
A Queenslander with a good sporting and
all-round record has gone under in France—
Captain H. G. Selwyn Smith, of a Beau-
desert family. He abandoned a legal job to
enlist as a private in one of the early bat-
talions, pulled off his commission in Egypt
and earned further promotion on the field.
He had a spell in England after being
wounded at Moquet Farm, and then returned
to meet the end. An only brother is also on
the big job and a sister is with the third
A.G.11.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Rockhampton’s oldest inhabitant, and, in-
cidentally, one of the oldest of Australian
natives, passed out when Captain Cornelius
Norris died the other day at the age of 83.
He was born in Sydney, on the day his
parents arrived from the TJ.S.A. As a youth
he went to Hobart on a shipbuilding job, and
drifted to Ballarat in ’52. A few years
later he dropped into the lightering trade on
the Queensland coast, and from that time on
he was a busy trader with Northern ports.
He salved many a vessel which had stranded
on the Bunker and Capricorn groups.
As Bananaland got none of the
£18,000,000 distributed by the Federal Gov-
ernment from the Note Issue Fund, Treas-
urer Theodore is demanding that the Com-
monwealth shall stick to the bargain of
January and borrow a million or two for
that State, anyhow. Unless Theodore gets
the cash he threatens to cut the painter, or
something, and proceed to assert the sov-
ereign rights of Bananaland by dealing with
Cohen personally. Theodore’s attitude isn’t
quite clear; but apparently he believes
either (1) that Queensland can help Aus-
tralia to win the war by making it more
difficult for her to raise the necessary money,
or (2) that it is much more important that
the Queensland Government should have
money to spend than that the war should
be won. It would be just as well for
Theodore to be specific and explain which
of these two grounds he stands upon.
“Tantalus”: Up to 18 months ago bridge-
construction for the Bananaland Railways
was done by contract, and as much as £OO
per month was pocketed by the contractor
after paying all expenses. That ought to
have made the success of the day-labor sys-
tem easy ; instead, the cost has increased so
enormously that the Dept, lias now decided
to give the butty-gang system a trial. The
trouble is that day-labor on Public Works
in Bananaland has degenerated into a sys-
tem of corruption. Workers take practically
no interest in their job, and production is
of no moment to them. The day-labor sys-
tem has thus received the most deadly hurt
from the very men who should have striven
to make it a success. The Dept.’s newest
experiment is full of possibilities. The
butty-gang system is a kind of kindergarten
in which the workers will have a chance to
learn that the question of production is one
that vitally affects their own welfare.


The Judgment of tbe Expert
When so many motor-cars are offered, when so many advertisements are written,
when so many convincing stories are told by earnest salesmen —is there any
wonder that people say : “All cars are good ” ?
But are all cars, at a given price, equally
good? How can they be, when some
manufacturers have such great advan-
tages over others ? With a company
like Studebaker, with 65 years’ experi-
ence in manufacture, with one of the
largest and best-equipped Engineering
Laboratories in the industry, with fac-
tory facilities and engineering and
manufacturing experience second to
none, don’t you think that Studebaker
cars ought to be better ?
When we tell you thev are, you prob-
ably think we are prejudiced, but here
is the opinion of an expert. He is the
Assistant Chief Engineer of a great
tool-making company. He knows raw
materials and finished machines as few
people have the opportunity to know
them, and here is what he says :
“In purchasing a car one has to take
into consideration many things. He first
settles on the price which he is willing to
pay , and then tries to find the best car he
canfior the price. With me , the features of
construction played a very important part.
“In the first place , the Studebaker cat-
alog depicted the mechanical part of its
car in detail\ showing the features of the
car which were vital to its construction.
1 went into these things , one by one , and
satis fed my mechanical mind beyond the
question of a doubt that Studebaker con-
struction was good.
“Studebaker was one of the few com-
panies with representatives who zvere able
to answer intelligently and to my complete
satisfaction questions . about certain
mechanical features of the car. I had
no difficulty in checking up the truth of
their statements.
“After looking about and investigating
a great many different makes of auto-
mobiles in the price class of Studebaker
(and a great many above this class price)
/ decided that there was more automobile
for each pound in the Studebaker than
in any other car , and so I bought a four-
cylinder Touring Car.
‘ ‘ After running this car , Ifeel so pleased
that / want to write these facts to you
and explain the reasons why I bought a
Studebaker , and I am glad to say that
the performance of the car has proved that
my original judgment was corrects
By writing to Sydney, anyone who is interested can obtain the names and addresses of hundreds of people who have proven the
Studebaker. If you want to go over a Studebaker car point by poi nt, call at our showroom and state your wishes and we will be
glad to give you complete information without obligation to you.
fa
Touring Four, £395. Touring Six, £485.
Possesses high-tension magneto and full equipment, including extra tyre tube and rim, at no extra cost.
ELECTRICALLY LIGHTED AND STARTED.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.


Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins tc
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
Ban, woman
ind child.
dfa
CARTERS
MTTLE
iIVER
PILLS.
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
»nd true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS.
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LEGS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug' Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents :
ELLIOTT BROB. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
9
For Coughs & Colds!
WAWN’S
Wonder-Wool
“The Magic-wrap that CURES!”
Its genial, radiating warmth penetrates
and soon dispels Bronchial Inflamma-
tion. It soothes the cough-racked, lungs.
The phlegm-clogged throat and nasal
chambers are quickly cleared. Circula-
tion is restored, and fever allayed.
Try it when you get a cough !
It stands pre-eminent as the, most potent
GENERAL household curative so far
evolved by pharmaceutical science.
Equally effectual for Rheumatism and
all pains caused by uric acid and blood
congestion.
Place it where the pain is and the pain will stop!
Wrap him up in
WONDER-WOOL.
It cures Sciatica, Backache, Gout, Lum-
bago, Abdominal Pains, Sore Throat,
Sprains, Chilblains. Bronchitis. Try it
NOW!
All chemists and stores, 2/-; post free.
UROSAL
The Greatest Uric Acid
Solvent Prepared.
A certain alleviate and cure for Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout, etc.
Completely dissolves and thoroughly
eliminates all excess of Uric Acid from
the system. Acts also on the Liver,
Kidneys and Bladder.
All chemists, 2/6; posted, 2/6.
Use Wawn’s Wonder-Wool externally.
Take “ Urosal ” internally.
VA WA W V Manufacturing
. A. ffAffll, Chemist,
Grigror’s Pharmacy,
186 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.
JOIN up, young man, and you will help
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
siw Uou,
*
THREE
SCORE EVERY TIME
SHIRTS COIIARS& PYJAMAS
Made By Pearson LawLt? Richmond, Victoria.
SHOES are exquisitely cool and light in the
hottest weather, yet none of your dowdy,
canvas shoes either but smart, elegant, in
the fore-front of fashion. Most Australian
women will have sighed for such shoes, and here
they are in the latest shipment of Bostocks. The
model illustrated is delightful even in picture
form. But think of it in reality, a light, grace-
ful shoe of finest moire, built in that new, short-
fronted shape so thoroughly French, and made
with a dainty Louis heel. If ever there was
an ideal shoe for smart wear in hot weather, it
is certainly this one. Then for other tastes,
there are other shoes equally charming in this
Bostock selection. The shoes are unmistakable,
and have the name Bostock stamped on the soles.
Bostock No.
P 6458
/
/
'Mm
d
■
B
I ■
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
825
Do not miss the latest Bostock ship-
ments now on view at the leading stores.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
BOSTOGK’S DRY GLEANER BLOCKS
for dry cleaning white and colored footwear, canvas and suede shoes and cloth-
topped boots, has no equal.
It is easily applied, does not rub off, and is satisfactory in every way.
Colors —White, Black, Brown, Champagne, Buff, Light and Dark
Grey and Khaki. Price 6d. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
/Iquaperia
(HARR:CATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold bv all Chemists.
Distributing Agents'. —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Wov
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ectab. 1891.
There are two Vic. girls in the last list
of Royal Red Cross winners—Sister Ida
O’Dwyer, of Bendigo and St. Kilda; and
Sister Helen Tait, whose dad is Presby-
terian meenister at Kyneton. Sister O’Dwyer
is in charge of the 3rd Australian Casualty
Clearing Station just behind the French
trenches, and has to put through 300
patients every three days to make room for
the next batch. She left for Egypt on the
first hospital ship. Sister Tait, who has had
years’ service, was at Heliopolis, too; and
later on hospital-transport duty. After a spell
at Rouen she took over the First Casualty
Clearing Station at Estaires, and showed
them how they did things at Melbourne
Alfred Hospital when she was night super-
intendent.
Vida Goldstein’s brother, Selwyn, a lieut.
of Royal Engineers, was killed in action in
France on June 8. lie was a mining engi-
neer with experience in Australia, Mexico,
Asia Minor and Honduras. His father was
the late Lieut.-Colonel Goldstein, a slightly-
built old gentleman in the Victorian Forces,
whose principal campaigns of later years
were fought over the table of the Women’s
Hospital Committee in its stormy period.
Henry Hyde Champion, Bernard Shaw’s
pal, is a brother-in-law. Champion, though
few would suspect it, was one of the British
officers who was with Roberts on the march
to Kandahar.
John Gray, who represents the Mallee
irrigation district of Swan Hill in the Vic.
Assembly, is to be opposed this year by
Hugh McClelland, of Berriwillock. McClel-
land, who had a try at the seat at the last
election, is a local farmer and municipal
busy-bee of some influence, and he will pro-
bably get Gray’s scalp if he keeps long
enough on the trail. Gray was an hon.
Minister in the last Peacock Administration,
but—er—retired on the reshuffling of port-
folios, to become Government Whip. He is
a stock and station agent in his home-town.
“Asmodeus”: Thirty-eight years ago, when
the Kelly gang were scaring the State and
country bank officials were armed against a
possible surprise attack, a young clerk who
had only just come from headquarters at
Melbourne to the Kilmore branch was writ-
ing at his desk. A gentleman, finding the
bank’s side-door unlocked, walked in and
inquired for the manager. The youngster
answered “He’s not in,” and then sternly
commanded the inquirer to come no further —
a command which the gent, seemed to regard
with a mixture of amusement and pique. The
unknown parleyed, and again asked : “Where
is Mr. Mackenzie?” The wary young clerk
replied: “He is in the garden.” “Please go
and tell him I want to see him,” said the
visitor. But the clerk knew better, and the
visitor had himself to seek the manager.
Presently there were explanations. “Why,”
said the manager, sotto voce, to his new
assistant, “you were going to shoot our best
customer!” The assistant is now “Little
Doctor” Maloney, M.11.R. for Melbourne.
The customer he mistook for a possible out-
law is Thomas Hunt, ex-Minister, journalist,
founder of several provincial newspapers and
sitting M.L.A. for Kilmore and Anglesey.
What a casualty-list he would have made!
Little Sammy Allen, the Melbourne book-
maker, was conspicuous again at the Aider
Reeve matinee for the Anzac Buffet.
When . sundry goods were being knocked
down to Sammy at. fancy prices, the auction-
eer (Barry Lupino) said that he had totted
up the amount of the genial little Jew’s
payments for flags, etc., at the auctions he
knew of, and the total was nearly £BOOO. To
give the racing crowd their due, they are
mostly shining examples of open-handedness
to the capitalists who never gamble, never
borrow except from a bank, and never thank
their lucky stars for a heavy income-tax
assessment.
Dr. John Chute Ellis, killed in France,
was a rare adventurer. Born in S. Aus.
(where his father still lives), he was edu-
cated at Christchurch College and Otago
University, then went to London and took
his medical degree. But he soon threw up
medicine to become a squatter in the Hay
(N.S.W.) district. When the war began he
volunteered as a doctor; soon, however, he
demanded something more stirring, and it
was as a lieut. of artillery that lie was
killed—at 31.
Prickly-pear is the spiked Hun of Aus-
tralia. and Tenterfield, away up next the
Bananaland border, has sent an S.O.S. to
Sydney, reminding it that the enemy, ad-
vancing from Bananaland, already occupies
three million acres of the Ma State. But
why should Sydney bother? Is there an
easy job in it or a bit of commission? No?
Then don’t worry us.
“D.F.”: Here’s a Thrift Campaign idea
from Hobart Town in 1829. A citizen of
that time asked for a pound of tea in the
shop of a leading Elizabeth-street grocer,
but was told that he would have to provide
his own package, as they were economising
on brown paper. Just then a stout, greasy
woman came in for some sugar. When she
heard of the new order she pulled off her
stocking, shoved the sugar in it and waddled
(ait.
One of the best things the Vic. Government
lias done this year is to hand over £lOO for
research work in connection with the clay
deposits at Stawell. The local School of
Mines has been nosing around the clay-
patches for some time with definite results.
Art-director Trengrove is experimenting in
pottery-ware, and science-master Barker has
done something with clay-coloring for a
locally-produced whiting, a range of market-
able kalsomines being his contribution. The
Government’s £lOO will help to show if
something worth while can be done in fur-
nace work.
“Peter”: Obituarists of the late R. S.
Smythe have neglected to mention his
sprightly tongue. Once he visited a political
personage. The Much-Travelled was small
and inconspicuous in the great man’s ante-
room. and waited fully half an hour before
the usher deigned to notice him. Then
he ventured to whisper that he would be
glad to have the statesman’s ear if it were
immediately available. The watchdog visi-
bly stiffened as he inquired: “What is your
business?” Smythe beamed seraphically. “I
am a waiter,” he said in his sweetest
manner.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
con venient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to anv address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO..
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Svdnev.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
r-N
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have-tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure jour corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, j’ou will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to anv address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
Sam-Flush
Makes and Keeps
Toilet Bowls Clean
A little Sani-Flush sprinkled into
the bowl every few days will keep
it spotless and sanitary. It reaches
and cleans the trap.
The use of Sani-Flush means no
more dipping of water, no scrub-
bing. Sani-Flush is not a general
cleanser, but an unique preparation
m
■k
The
which you
cam clean
«c»pl with
to clean toilet
b owls and
keep them
clean.
Ask
Your Dealer
Yourdealer
has Sani-Flush
or can get it
quickly; or
writeusacard
givingyourdealer’s
name and we will
have you supplied.
S a ni - F lu s h
should be used wherever there are
toilet bowls in residences and all
other buildings.
Does not injure plumbing connections.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St., 109 Pitt St.,
Wellington, N. Z. Sydney, N. S. W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
r 3
<y
A
w
z'
'V
Es}
'w-'
Y
n
trri
ft
r _
bX
w
i*»»
7i
k
i — r y
=YYV\
W>x
i
\
4fS
£/
S 3
J
/
Whooping Cough nearly beat our Tom and I am sure we
would have lost him if it had not been for Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. This was
certainly a time when Granny Chamberlain was my best friend for I thought sure he
would be permanently injured by the awful straining of the cough, which was always
worse at night and used to nearly suffocate him. But I gave him
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
right away, and in frequent doses, and t
was surprising how t liquified the tough
mucus and made it easy for him to expec-
torate. Of course the whooping cough had
to run its course, but Chamberlain s Cough
Remedy saved him lots ol suffering and any
after effects.
Since then I have had several occasions
to use Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy for
whooping cough and although this disease
always scares me I know there is no danger
when Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is
freely given.
“ Nov> he sure
uou get
Chamberlain a"
sdf
DID YOU KNOW
That the manufacturers of Chamberlain's Cough Remedy, which is the
largest selling and most successful medicine of its kind in the world, also
make CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS for the Stomach and Liver? Chamberlain’s
Tablets are a new and improved remedy for Biliousness and Disorders of the Stomach, Diver and Bowels ; they have met
with the greatest success in the treatment of Constipation, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Impaired Digestion and Liver
Disorders. Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the bowels but improve the appetite and correct disorders of the stomach
and liver. Where Chamberlain’s Tablets have been used they are a most popular medicine and everyone w r ho has used them
is pleased with the prompt relief they afford. THEY ARE BETTER THAN PILLS and you would never wish to take another
dose of pills after having used Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they are easier and more pleasant to take, more mild and gentle in
their action and more reliable, as they can always be depended upon. Chamberlain's Tablets cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural condition, while pills are more harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. They are sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth at Is. 6d. per box.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For War Purposes only.
A DEPOBIT OF
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 O „ „ £5O
£B7 10 O „ „ £lOO
£875 O O „ „ £lOOO
Pa.ya.ble 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are transferable by delivery being payable to bearer, are exempt
from the Wealth Levy, free from Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty,
interest free of Commonwealth and State Income Tax.
Every Man
Every Woman
Every Child
Can help Win the War by participating in the War
Saving Certificates. Every Certificate purchased
helps to bring victory closer.
Application forms and all information at all Banks, State Savings Banks
and Money Order Post Offices.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. ihth March , 1917
“A Near Shave,”
one that leaves the face as smooth as a child’s, is
what
THE “PIAJM” RAZOR
will give you. All the science in the world can’t
make a keener blade or one that keeps its edge so
long.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line makes
a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, Post Free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
The Good Old
“PLUM.”
Edison
Storage Batteries
for Lighting and ignition of
Motor-cars and Launches,
[©] I©
wm [
M
Motorists and Motor-
launch proprietors ap-
preciate the conveni-
ence, cleanliness and
absolute reliability of
the Edison Storage
Batteries.
These splendid Bat-
teries give complete
satisfaction for a
number of years, do
not fail at a critical
time, and are different
from and altogether
superior to the ordi-
nary lead-acid kind.
Call for demonstration
or write for details,
post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street. Sydney.
ynf WeQr 7
fjossard
u CORsSETS
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
18/6
9/81 9/81 9/81
asd
DAYS instead
balance. This
Profit Price is
AN 8-DAY
LEVER
For Eighteen and Sixpence.
Stewart Dawson’s flasterpiece.
What a boon to the business man, the
traveller, the man on the land —the
shearer, the boundary-rider! Apart from
the advantage that it only requires winding
once a week, this wateh keeps splendid
time from month to month, and is built
to stand the roughest colonial usage. The
movement is similar to the ordinary High-
grade Watch, but with an extra-strong,
extra-long spring, which runs EIGHT
of one. Keyless wind, strong nickel case, compensation
watch is usually sold at 22/6. Stewart Dawson’s Single-
° n,y Post 18/6 Free.
Stewart Dawson’s Catalogue of Watches and Jewellery Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
,01'*
f
it?
26.
REPEATING AND
AUTOLOADING
SHOT GUNS
EMINGTON UMC
Autoloading Arms are
made under the famous Browning
r patents which are recognized as unex-
celled. Our Repeating Shot Guns are
fast gaining favour. Send for descriptive
[catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO.
D. D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
&
%Q o^.
A 1
emingtori
12
II:;; -vsn '•hoami*
liioa OiW MOfIOM9 3s
iVIOQiJVqi
lujgsgy
FIRST AID TREATMENT
FOR cuts, bruises, and skin irri-
tations of all kinds use
Vaseline
TVede Mark Registered
Carbolated
Petroleum Jelly
It lessens the risk of infection.
For sale at all chemists and general
stores, in glass bottles and tin tubes.
Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
London
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
Montreal
Moscow
MAJESTIC!
The mighty Caruso—monarch of song
—and many others world famous in
Grand Opera, sing EXCLUSIVELY
for
fa
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
CELEBRITY RECORDS.
Caiusos majestic voice is heard at its best in his delightful rendition
in French of D’Hardelot’s “Because” (7-32004).
\A****n C
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
Another noteworthy record is 2-034021, “Si tu
m’aimes ’ (CARMEN), by Amato and Geraldine
Farrar— Both are included in the new list for July
—now ready at all dealers.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
1-
The Motor Cycle of
Supreme and Unchallenged
Reliability
By Achievement
32-page Art Catalogue—gratis.
ARIEL WORKS LTD.
36 BOURNBROOX, BIRMINGHAM, ENG,
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street.
ADELAIDE: 152 Bundle Street.
.MELBOURNE: Elizabeth Street.
/
7
V
Sc
’V
3C
m
F
s&


CUTICURA SOAP
BATH FOR BABY
A
-<
Is Soothing,
Cooling and
Restful
If there is any
skin trouble,
touch it with Cu-
ticura Ointment
after the bath.
He can’t sleep
and eat if he has
skin troubles.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPECIALISE
TWO
L/NES
sdf
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
Tv STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Zf HOTTER S T NEWCASTLE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
asd
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
IH1H»
E
m
m
M
ISS
I
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL*
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and i& oz. of shot.
ELEY '3B
S&W Revolver
*3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L? LONDON
llllillMfiH
%
BEAUTY SECRETS
REVEALED.
By “MIMOSA/'
HAIR CULTURE.
DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
there is really no need to have poor or
impoverished hair if a few commonsense
rules are observed. First of all, hair tonics
must be freshly-made in order to obtain the
best results, and thousands of women, and
men, too, are now making up their own
lotions with most satisfactory results. For
this purpose they obtain from the chemist’s
one ounce of boranium and mix this with
i pint of bay rum, quite a simple formula,
and according to all accounts remarkably
effective. This simple home-made lotion
quickly removes all dandruff, and creates a
growth of new, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman. One word
in conclusion. Do not experiment with
your hair, long suffering though it may be.
Nature will surely revolt if you continue
to subject the hair and scalp to all kinds
of fanciful treatments. Employ a tonic by
all means if such is required, but having
found a satisfactory one use no other.
GOOD SHAMPOO IMPORTANT.
THE hair should be allowed to breathe,
and the greasy film around each strand
must be removed with a mild non-
alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be tabooed.
The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a tcaspoonful of stal-
lax granules in a cup of hot water. It
stimulates the scalp to healthy action, and
at the same time leaves the hair in that
soft, fluffy condition so much admired. Any
chemist can supply you with an original
packet of stallax, sufficient to make twenty-
five or thirty shampoos.
MAGIC FOR SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
IT is astounding the number of women
who suffer from unsightly growths of
hair on the face, and it will come as a
piece of good news to know that there is a
simple substance, known as powdered phe-
minol, which will remove it immediately
and permanently. Mix a small quantity
into a thin paste with a little water, and
apply to the objectional growths. In two
minutes all trace of the hair will have
entirely vanished, and your skin will be as
soft and smooth as a child’s.
RENEWING COMPLEXIONS.
THE average woman of to-day is usually
satisfied if her complexion is passably
pretty, little knowing that an exquisite
skin is now within her reach, providing she
has the good sense to stop using cheap made-
up preparations and adopt what has now
become known as the mercolised-wax habit.
It is a pity that every woman in the land
cannot be apprised of this simple method.
The few to whom its virtues are already
known have complexions that are the envy
of all their friends, and, as is usually the
case, the majority of them refuse to divulge
the secret. However, the formula has now>
been verified, and is known as mercolised
wax. Inquiry at several chemists’ shops
have resulted in ascertaining that this sub-
stance has been known to the select few for
some years as a complexion beautifier, but it
is only until quite recently that it has been
used to any extent for this purpose. It was
also explained how mercolised wax renews
the complexion, but as this is rather tech-
nical it is not proposed to repeat it here. It
will be sufficient to say that through some
peculiar action the wax absorbs the dead
and discolored outer cuticle, revealing the
fresh young complexion which every woman
has underneath. The process occupies about
ten days, and the change is so gradual and
imperceptible that no discomfort whatever
is caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less and the wax may be used as often as
desired.
BLACKHEADS FLY AWAY.
A PRACTICALLY instantaneous remedy
for blackheads, greasy skins and
enlarged pores, recently discovered, is
now coming into general use in the boudoir.
It is very simple, harmless and pleasant.
Drop a stymol tablet, obtained at the
chemist’s, in a tumbler full of hot water.
After the effervescence has subsided bathe
the face in the liquid, using a small sponge
or soft cloth. In a few minutes dry the
face and the offensive blackheads will come
right off on the towel. Also the large oily
pores immediately close up and efface them-
selves naturally. The greasiness disappears
and the skin is left smooth, soft and cool.
This simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days to
ensure the permanence of the result. [i
Uncerrua
BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If fon have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids* to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general "fitness” and well-being.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote :—“ ImOroverished blood can be made rich and good
•* by means of Iron 'Jeilo.ds,' the most effective and desirable treatment
A FORTNIGHT'S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS 1 No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON ’JELLOIDS 1 No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS 1 No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by The Jelloid’ Co.. 205, City Road, London. England.
%anMtciMm
taw F (Pronounced MWoydi)
&5S
M AOE
BRITISH
Genuine
FOX’S
se n«|»e
is always fashionable
Fasf Dye
See that every Yard bears Trade
narks as here llluslrabecl ••••
/losfra/ian fte/>resenSa//res
Box. 1802 G PO Sydney.
The Inky Way.
. “Quarter Single”: The other day Harri-
son Owen’s chief of staff, whose devotion to
poetry is the wonder and admiration of his
colleagues, reverently approached the young
genius, and suggested that it might be neces-
sary for him that week to help fill a hungry
mining column. “Sir,” replied Owen, with that
Chesterfieldian charm which robs insubordi-
nation of half its evil by depriving it of all
its grossness, “Sir, I am not a minor poet!
[Written, after hurried consultation with Jimmy
Lymer, to express the Views of the literary corridor,
by POINGDESTRE QUILLER-COUCH FAUXPAS DE I< AUX,
Indexer of Obituary Notices, the Morgue, Melbourne.]
* * * *
Henry F. Swords, one of the owners of
the Dandenong Advertiser, has finished a
long run of Vic. newspaper proprietorship
at the respectable age of 71. Deceased and
his brother, F.W., who helped to found the
’Tiser, were both early toddlers on the Inky
Way. Their father, owner of the Bacchus
Marsh Guardian, determined to beat the
young Swords into freelances, _ so to speak,
and started the process at his own anvil.
Later on, when the lads had sufficient cash
and experience, they left to look after a
child of their own. That was so long ago
that the ’Tiser aforesaid is now a rugged
veteran of 43.
* * * *
C. J. Dennis’s new book of Bulletin and
other verse, “The Glugs of Gosh,” has not
yet been published, but 20,000 copies have
already been sold.
* * * *
“Rustler”: That Samuel Goode who
printed the Illustrated _ Australian
Magazine, the first picture journal of the
Commonwealth, was concerned in most of
the printing of the early days. As an appren-
tice in England he claimed to have set up
the whole of Johnson’s “Pocket Dictionary”
in pearl. In 1841 he printed The Port
Phillip Gazette for the proprietor, G.
Arden, who languished in prison for libel.
In 1843 he printed and published Melbourne
Courier for Wm. Kerr, a famous editor of
those days. This was a tri-weekly, and it
was the first to use the Argus’s dubious
motto, “I am in the place,” etc. The
Courier lived only a few months, and Kerr
on June 1, 1846, started the Argus. Goode
was the first printer of the paper, and set
up the first stickful of type. He was first
Government Printer for Victoria, and. the
early Gazettes bear his name on the im-
print. His next publication was Melbourne
Albion, a weekly, in 1847; then the Weekly
Dispatch and the Illustrated Australian
Magazine. After having many ups and
downs with mining ventures the old inky
wayfarer finished his journey as proprietor
of the Buninyong Telegraph.
* * * *
“Pip” Schuler, who went off first as war
correspondent and wrote “Australia in
Arms,” the most complete history of our
Gallipoli adventure yet printed, later climbed
into khaki, and now has a shoulder decora-
tion. His father is editor of the Age.
* * * *
“Dryberra”: Nosing through some old
books recently, I came across “The Pickled
Pasquinade,” by Henry French Gillman,
who was an interesting personality around
Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) some years ago. His
booklets of doggerel verse (pretty bad) were
distributed gratis over the district. They
were mostly tirades against the local squat-
tocracy (amongst whom was Campbell, of
Duntroon), some verse on Charles Stewart
Parnell and the Jesuits (whom he loved no
better than he did the yellow pup), and an
ode on the death of his old bay mare (poi-
soned by an irate neighbor). > He lived
alone on a rabbit-infested selection of 80
acres at Tidbinbilla, 17 miles from Quean-
beyan, and was apparently in receipt of re-
mittances from the Cold Country. His prin-
cipal hobbies, apart from rhyme-plastering,
seemed to be pulling down rabbit-proof gates
where they crossed main roads. For this he
figured several times before the local courts.
He was believed locally to be Piggott. the
principal witness in Parnell v. The Times,
and his frequent references to Parnell lent
color to the belief. I last heard of him in
December, 1914; he was then in Paris.
* * * *
Over the signature of “C.,” the very
superior Earl Curzon has lately contributed
several obituaries to London Times. Drop-
ping a few well-bred tears over H. J. Cust,
a former editor of the Pall Mall Gazette,
Curzon is careful to mention that his sub-
ject “was well born and well connected,” and
remarks: —
To-day the ashes of the gifted and lovable man
who was known not merely to his friends, but to
the larger world, as Harry Cust, will be taken to
their last resting place at the stately home to which
he was expected to succeed, but which he has now
exchanged for another and more enduring inheritance.
On which the New Statesman comments:
“Lord Curzon’s heaven appears to be an
infinite country house with endless stables
and an immeasurable park. One is reminded
of the superb epitaph on the great Boyle:
‘He was first cousin to the Earl of Cork and
the Father of English Chymistry.’ ”
THE PETULANT POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let us run away
Into the glad day.
There’s lots of fun about
If only you’d come out.
The mushrooms blushing pink
Smile as the goblins wink ;
And every bird sings “tweet!
Each one to his sweet;
All the meadow grass
Spills jewels as you pass;
And little fishes gleam
Through rainbows of the stream;
The lupins on the hill
With fire begin to thrill;
The blowy cliffside way
Runs sheer to greet the day;
There’s laughter through the earth,
And loving, and great mirth.
There’s lots of fun about
If only you’d come out.
Well, if you won’t, I’ll get
Some other boy to pet.
N.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


!V n
.flk
€&
imii'L
o 7
#s
"/
**Before I Sit in a Chair / Like to Know Whether It Has
Been Polished with an Oily Substance or with
IV/TOST LIQUID POLISHES remain on the
surface, gathering every bit of dust and
dirt and soiling the hands and clothing. Dis-
criminating housewives add to the comfort of
family and guests by polishing their furniture
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax
“The Dust-Proof Polish”
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a perfectly hard,
dry, glasslike polish of great beauty and durability.
It never becomes soft or sticky in the hottest weather
or from the heat of the body. Consequently it does
not gather dust or show finger prints.
Polish All Your Furniture
—including the piano and organ with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. You will be surprised at the won-
derful improvement. It gives Craftsman Furniture
that soft, artistic polish so appropriate to this style.
It entirely removes the cloudiness from Mahogany,
restoring its original gloss.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes have no effect whatever on it.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Keep
a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos.
Floors
Piano
Furniture
Woodwork
Motor Car
JOHNSON
a SiL e , 10-
Obtainable from all good Dealers—o t
'-—•Use this Coupon for Trial Tin--
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
sufficient for a good test. Also send book
on Home Beautifying, free and postpaid.
Name
Address
I usually buy from
Fill Oat this Coupon and Pott to
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
fa
Don’t forget to use
Calvert's
loolh F@wier
to-night—and again
in the morning .
For the cleaner your teeth are
kept the longer they will last
and the better they look.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert <&■* CoManchester.\ En&
w
3
Si
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing„
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
British Made. Box of 5, 2/6 post free
3
m
mm
m
mwxm
AWJirAw
mm
mm
mm
■
B24. Boswell’s High-grade D.B.B.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, “The Reliable,”
]2-gauf?e, top lever, Anson and Deeley action, barrels both clioke, side clips, Greener X
Bolt, chambered for 2J cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip,
engraved; weight about 71b. 5oz
elaborately
Delivered
sdf
Send for our new edition
(B 1) Firearms and Sport-
ing Catalogue. Post Free.
asd
811. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.L. Gun,
top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel barrels,
Ureener cross-bolt, both cboke, rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
cuambered for 2Jin. cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders;
naif-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from 7ilb. to 7ilb. Delivered
£>7/10/-
WE REPAIR. GUNS and
RIFLES.
“SWEET CROP"
Cigarettes, really
delightful. 6d.
pkt., post free.
10 pkts. 5/-, post
free.
fa
818. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-incli steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end,
nut stock; weight about 71b
pistol grip, wa1,....
,.... Delivered
*B/7/0
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels
Delivered £B/12/6
sdf
Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
826. a H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; .weight of 12-gauge about
7ilb.; of 16-gauge, about 6ilb Delivered
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge, 30in. barrels, 7/6 extra.
£3151-
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
m
mm
• i
817. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L. Pigeon
Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitr.o steel, 32-inch barrels,
both choke. Greener cross-bolt, high file-cut rib, pistol-grip, chambered for
2Jm. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight, 71b. to 7Jlb. Delivered...
£7
We can supply the above gun in 16-gauge-
Delivered, £7/10/-
Durham Duplex Safety Razor,
complete with six blades 6/6,
post free.,
3 .v..
..y:
832. “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in, steel barrels,
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 71b
Postage on one Gun —2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State.
45/-
asd
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action,
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 631 b. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
bj-Non-Ejector, 23/6 ; 82-Auto-Ejector, 25/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.;
4/8 Inter-State.
mnrnnns R 4,
mSTRTILmS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
fa
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane


An Australian Actress Praises
Dr. Sheldons New Discovery
. , Ml , ss ,T len Hogue, one of the prettiest of our native-born actresses, comes of a family notable
U'aii ii j history. Her father was for many years Minister for Education in New South
Aggie L ynch in Within the Law,” and as Molly Preston, in “The Man That Stayed
has . endeared herself to Australian audiences. She has temperament'as
Well as beauty, and her voice has been likened to that of the great Bernhardt. Miss Hogue
I have been using' Dr.
Sheldon’s Jtew Discovery
during the last three
weeks, with most marvel-
lous results, and I have
decided that I would write
Und tell yoii, for it was
not until this year that I
ever had occasion to try it*
For many years, each
winter I was troubled with
throat trouble or colds. I
used to always have a
recipe at the chemist’s that
was given to me by a
friend of mine. This always
seemed to help me a good
deal, and I thought it
was about as good as any-
thing 1 could get.
Unfortunately (as I
thought at the time) I lost
this recipe, and when I
had the misfortune to con-
tract a bail cold this year
which affected my voice
seriously, I could not find
this recipe, and I was re-
commended to try Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery
by a friend, who said she
had used it with great
success. I obtained a
bottle, and the effect was
marvellous. It is simply
astonishing how quickly it
helps one, for in less than
two days the cold was en-
tirely cured, and my voice
improved With the first
dose that I took. Needless
to say, I shall never bother
about getting any recipes
put up again, for New
Discovery shall always be
my remedy for a cold. I
think it marvellous*
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) TIEN HOGUE*
ft
I, %
%
Wm HU
*-
*
IS
£
.1/m- TIEN lIQGUE (from a photo, from, Burr-Litz Studio ).
STOPS COUGHS
BAN/SHES COLDS .
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth of Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t delay, but buy a bottle at once, and be
ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes its appearance. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery is the ever-readv friend that should be in every household to protect you from
all winter ills. Price, 1/6 and 3/-
D? Sheldons
OUGHS
JVND
OLDS
“11
s i«i Begs s&Hgg 5
iffiiT j*.
;c
i
ilimn diid
liuumMii —. kk..iiliiiiun
t?
There are Smiles and
a Smacking of Lips
when* Mother brings in a steaming-hot dish of
“Rex” Lorraine Smoked Sausages. All the family
enjoy this nourishing food—there is nothing more
appetising or so easily prepared.
“Rex” Lorraine Smoked
Sausages
are made from the choicest meats,
carefully minced and seasoned,
then smoked to the pink of per-
fection.
They are ready to serve, even to a
fine gravy. Simply immerse the
tin in boiling water for 20
minutes. Buy a tin to-day.
Rex" Luncheon Cheese
has a p'quant flavor that
all enjoy. TRY IT.
Foggitt, Jones § Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Pood Products.
\\\ W\\\M\ u\\\\
i
rm l
l
life
2
XJJ
iiiullmk
nu I nun
The Ballad of Cathdara's
Plunder.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CATHDARA burned the people’s bread;
The harsh smoke blown along the hill
Told of the wheat-fields scorched and red
And barn and storehouse flaming still.
I blew upon the trysting horn .
The winding blast my people knew:
“The shipmen burn the valley corn
And here is work for swords to do!”
Full five score men of mountain .breed
Were at my hall by break of day,
My father’s men, that I must lead
Td test their swords in battle play.
“And wherefor would ye forth this morn?
No foeman’s heel is in the glen.
What scathe to us that valley corn
Is burned before the Northland men?”
Black Calu'rn spake. I answered high :
“No kin are they whose fields are black,
But strong Cathdara’s hosts are by
With heavy plunder at their back.
“A spoil of webs from Southland looms,
Red gold from off the necks of kings,
The strippings of gay palace rooms
And store of bracelets, gauds and rings.
“Their ships are drawn along the shore
A league beyond the Hazel Pool,
With scarce an arm to swing an oar
They lie with three years’ plunder full.
“At Inverlone the feast is set,
C&thflata sits beside the board,
His twelve Scote warriors’ beards ate wet
A day’s march from his treasure hoard."
My word seemed good. The ships Were
burned.
Back-bowed with spoil we climbed the glen,
And at the upper fall we turned
To meet and smite Cathdara's men.
Red-bearded to that strife they came,
The wrath before them cursed the wind,
The tempest of their pride and shame
Broke out upon us stark and blind.
The darkness fell upon the fight,
The black blood lay on moss and stone,
And knee to knee through all the night
Our hard swords hacked at foes unknown.
Old ghosts went wailing up the glen,
Old voices cried from rock and tree;
It seemed as if grave-weary men
Gripped at my hand and smote with me.
«
And when the fierce, red dawning broke
Above a wraith of death and woe
No friend to friend of courage spoke,
I stood alone with one tall foe.
Cathdara with his cloven shield,
His red sword broken at the hilt,
Spake gruffly in his beard, “I yield.
Enough good blood our hands have spilt.”
No ship had he to bear him thence,
No man had I to call me king;
AVe stood in weary impotence,
AA aiting the thing the day should bring.
Black Calum, in the pain of death,
Lifted on high a bloody hand,
And cursed me with his dying breath
AA T ith all the curses of the land.
Piled on the rocks the gold lay red,
Plunder of cities burned with flame....
lhe women came to keen the dead
And called the cold things by their name.
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
The Sergeant of the Guard.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPTAIN WILLIAM BLIGH, R.N.,
Captain : General and Governor-in-Chief
in and over his Majesty’s territory of
New South Wales, . was in a condition of
nervous irritability. Private Michael
Maguire, of the New South Wales Corps,
Observing him from a window of the guard-
room as he paced the verandah of Govern-
ment House in a short quarter-deck walk,
commented upon the fact, >«nd thereby drew
down upon himself the contumely of Charles
Mountain, the sergeant of the guard.
“He do be like a cat on hot bricks.
He’s madder than iver, an’ that’s damn like
to sayin’ what’s impossible. ’Tis a dozen
times he’s come out there —a-stumpin’ up an’
down like Springheel Jack, an’ lookin’ down
at th’ town as if he’d like to set afire to it —
a dozen times, at laste, since we mounted
guard this mornin’. Sure, he’s ragin’ wid
th’ bad timper of him —an’ someone’s goin’
to catch it. ’Tis wan consolation we may
have —this damn country isn’t a ship!”
“Micky Maguire, 'tis a fool ye are. If
this country was a ship, and Billy Bligh
was her captain, he’d know better what to
do with it, an’ them that’s in it, than he does
now. He’s a fish out of water, that’s what
he is—though he wouldn’t thank ye for
sayin’ so. They ought never have given him
this job. He’d make a better admiral than
a governor. ’Tis more his trade. This is a
job that’s only fit for some crawlin’ land-
lubber of a soldier.”
“Listen to him, b’ys ! Hark at him! Sure,
Sergeant, thin, what are ye y’silf but a
sojer? What fault have ye to find wid your
own breed?”
“Fault! None —they’ve got no faults,
have they?” laughed the sergeant bitterly.
“ ’Specially the collection of angels that’s in
the New South Wales Corps. Oh, yes, I’m
a soldier now, an’ I suppose I never was
anything else. But I was a sea-soldier
before I joined this gang—l was a seafarin’
man —an’ I know what’s worryin’ the Gover-
nor.”
“What is it, thin, Sergeant dear?”
“Havin’ to deal with a set of '■ jackals
like our officers and their friends, an’
knowin’ he can’t deal with ’em navy-fashion
An’ I daresay he’s half-afraid they’re goin’
to deal with him army-fashion—New South
Wales army-fashion.”
The other men, lounging in - the guard-
room in full dress—all scarlet and pipeclay
and with their shakoes on their heads in
readiness for the sudden turns-out that are
incidental to a Governor’s guard—listened to
this dialogue in silence. Perhaps, also, with
a little terror. The Corps found, as a rule,
that the topic of its officers was a dangerous
one. All Sydney was a trap for the unwary.
Your best* friend might seize upon your in-
discretion of speech as a means of his own
advancement —and half an hour at the hal-
berds, under the tender mercies of the drum-
mers, was not a form of recreation that was
popular in even so tough a regiment as the
102nd. But Sergeant Charles Mountain was
new to his present service. In the marines
a man might trust his comrades. He had
not yet realised that in New South Wales
it was almost as unsafe to trust a soldier as
a convict. lie went on.
“I was shipmaster with Billy in the
Director, at the Nore, in ’97. I seen how
he dealt with mutineers that time. An’ I
was with him in the Glatton at Copen-
hagen seven years ago. I know what sort of
a cove he is. But he’s out of his element
here. He’s used to honest sailor-men, not
land sharks in red coats. However, I
don’t doubt he’ll be able to deal with this
lot when he gives his mind to ’em. Billy
Bligh’s no chicken-heart, you take my word
for it.”
“ ’E’s a cranky, ole shellback, that's
wot ’e is,” growled the corporal, sitting with
his back to the open door, through which
there was a glimpse of the blue cove and the
sunlit houses over on the Itocks. “Warn’t
I on th’ guard over yonder at Dawes’ Bat-
tery w’en ’e comes down an’ damns us for a
set of ——- rascals. Says we was no use at
all, an’ calls us gaolbirds.' Grabs my piece
out of me ’ands, an’ pulls th’ flint out, an*
says we oughtn’t to be allowed with arms
at all. Calls us dirty bastards, an’ ”
“Guarrd—-thr-rn but!”
“Howly saints, ’tis himsilf!” gflsped
Private Maguire* Stumbling towards the
arm-rack. In a moment they Wete lined Up
outside, stiff and rigid, Sergeant Mountain
in their rear, with his long halberd by his
side. The Governor was close upon them,
and the sentry had already come to the
“present.”
“Guard —-present arms!” cried the ser-
geant, as the Governor, scowling and frown-
ing, halted in front of the line.
His Excellency’s way with his subordi-
nates was never a pleasant one. At the best
of times he displayed mannerisms that were
not winning. Now, when he was angry, and
harassed, and puzzled with a situation that
had almost grown too big for him, the Cor-
nish sailor looked his very worst. And it
was a bad worst. “Dismiss the rabble!”
he snorted to Sergeant Mountain. “Send
’em to their kennel. Sergeant, I wish to
speak with you.” Hastily issuing the neces-
sary orders, Mountain sent his men back to ,
the guard-room. Then lie took five regula-
tion paces that brought him immediately in
front of Bligh, saluted, and stood stiffly at
attention. The Governor eyed him sourly
for a few moments, then turned - and gazed
down at the town, frowning and muttering.
The sergeant awaited his pleasure, standing
like a wooden man, the sun sparkling on the
point of his long spear, and lighting up h s
scarlet jacket, so that it stood out startlingly
against the blue waters of Sydney Cove.
When Bligh turned round again, he became
aware that the sentry was passing close
beside them, as he marched “briskly and in
a soldierlike manner” up and down his beat.
Instantly he broke into one of those un-
reasonable outbursts of evil temper that had
been the curse of his career from master’s
mate to pro-consul.
“God —- and blast your ugly car-
case, ye stinking lobster !” he shouted at the
man,, his tanned, rather handsome face flush-
ing with passion. “Get about your busi-
ness, d—n ye!. Sergeant, send this.man out
of hearing—the eavesdropping son of a .
Send him to Hell! Damme, are they all
spies of John Macarthur?” he muttered
sulkily to himself.
“Order your arms outside the gate, Shan-
non, and stay there till I tell ye,” sai.d Ser-
geant Mountain. He observed that the man
spat in the dust as he marched down to
the gate. But he made allowance for such
an act of insolence under the circumstances,
and Bligh had not noticed it. He still stood
rigidly at attention—a fine figure of a man,
typical of Red Marines who stood often
under arms on shot-torn poops, rrtotiohless
and ready, “ per mare per terram,” through-
out those bloody years. The Governor was
staring intently into his face, as if trying
to recall features familiar somewhere before.
Presently he spoke, a little more quietly.
“Sergeant,” he said, “I seem to call your
looks to mind. Where have I seen vou
before?” J
“I have often been on the guard here, y’r
Honor” •
“Your Excellency, damn ye!” cried Bligh,
flaring up again. ,
“Your Excellency !” Mountain hastily cor-
rected himself. “I ask your Excellency’s
pardon—-a slip of the tongue. ’Tis on this
guard, no doubt, your Excellency has noticed
me.”
“Guard be d—d ! I’ve seen you elsewhere,
away from New South Wales. Where have
I seen you?”
“By your Excellency’s leave, I was with
you in the Director, and afterwards in the
Glatton—at Copenhagen.”
“Ah. damme, yes. I remember ye now.”
said Bligh, with almost a softening of his
harsh manner. “A marine?”
“Yes, your Excellency.”
“Good ! You’re a sailor, then—not one of
these accursed pirates of soldiers. What
caused ye to leave an honest service for this’
Surely the marines were better to serve with
than this collection of cutpurses and felons
they call a regiment!”
‘I exchanged, your Excellency. I wished
to see this new country. rNvanted to settle
here when I had served my time ”
u “The country’s all right,” growled Bligh.
Tis ruined by the scum that’s in it—bond
and free. But listen to me, Sergeant—what’s
your name?”
<‘w°n nt v ir i’ s ' r Charles Mountain.”
M ell, listen to me, Sergeant Mountain.”
He paused for a moment, and his eves
wandered again towards the sunlit capital
and sides U nf r ?hp S l>fi traSg n ns " P the bottom
anu sides ot the little valley below them rm
either bank of the Tank Stream. A look of
(Continued on next page.)


Piles
sdf
A Man’s Terrible Martyrdom—Suffering Always—
Life was a Misery—Other Remedies Prove Useless.
Zam-Buk Is In-
valuable for
stiff neck, cold
pains In limbs,
joints or back,
chapped
hands, chil-
blains, eczema,
barcoo, piles,
cuts, bruises,
and a'l injured,
diseased con-
ditions of the
skin. Prloe 1/6,
or 3/6 family
pot (containing
nearly four
times 1/6), from
aI I chemists
and stores.
One of the greatest living
physicians, referring to piles,
says The pain is often so
intense that the 'patient feels
he can neither walk nor lie,
while in some cases the loss
of blood is so great as to con-
stitute a grave danger
The way in which piles yield to Zam-Buk
is nothing short of remarkable. The con-
centrated and carefully combined ingredi-
ents of which Zam-Buk is composed take
away the inflammation; and the pain and irrita-
tion, which at times almost amounts to agony,
is relieved the moment the healing balm is
applied.
Confirmation of this statement is furnished by Mr. J.
A bond, of Albion Street, Warwick, Q., who says:—
“Three years ago I suffered all the agony incidental to
piles. At times I would pass nearly half a cupful of blood,
and became so distressed that life was perfect misery. I
suffered all the time when either standing or lying down. I
: tried all sorts of ways and means in my endeavor to rid
I myself of this miserable complaint, but the many so-called
| remedies I used proved fruitless. At last I thought I would
i give Zam-Buk a trial, and from the very first application of
' the balm I derived relief. The burning inflammation
gradually subsided and the terrible pains were subdued,
and ten days after the first applications of Zam-Buk I was
I completely cured of the piles. I feel convinced I had as bad
an attack of piles as any of my acquaintances, some of whom were
troubled for years, and they were astonished at the speedy cure Zam-
Buk. had effected in my case.
“I cannot speak too highly in favor of this wonderful balm, and
will never be without a pot. It is now three years since Zam-Buk
brought me ease and comfort, in place of .torture and distress, and as I
have not had the slightest symptoms of piles since, I feel quite satis-
fied the cure is permanent.”
amßu
*i*
3?7M,
m
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “7 o clock
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboar .
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in t e
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a singe
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and wit
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjuste
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, Ist D.C.L.1., writes:
“ Up to the time of first using a “7 o'clock"
Safety Razor out here shooing was a task
to be aOoided. Now it is a delight.”
Price in Australia
Price in New Zealand ...
126
13 G A
“7 O’CLOCK” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by If in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
fob. Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia,
m
mm
m
m
hate, and possibly of fear, was in them when
be brought them back to Mountain’s face.
■‘l’ve good reason to suppose, Sergeant
Mountain—bear in mind I talk to ye as to an
old shipmate—that those lousy rascals, the
officers of the Corps, intend to do me a
mischief- —to do the country and his Majesty
a mischief—if ’tis in their power. 1 don’t
know what the day may bring forth. I don’t
know wlnit’s going on over there” —he
pointed towards the barracks on the distant
hillside. “There is none whom I can trust —-
save those whom my enemies would immedi-
ately recognise as being of my party. This
place is full of spies—their spies—and I
have none. Look ye, Sergeant Mountain —
will ye do me a sarvice? Will ye do an old
shipmate a sarvice?”
Mountain stared at him in astonishment.
It was seldom that Billy Bligh asked a ser-
vice of anyone. It was rather liis habit to
demand unhesitating obedience than to seek
favors. Sergeant Mountain was puzzled.
“If ’tis in my power, your Excellency,” he
replied slowly. "I will do what I can.” *
“Well, then, Sergeant, I want ye to go to
the Ilawkesbury for me this day. You can
ride a horse?”
“But indiff’rently, y’r Excellency.”
“Well enough, I’ve no doubt, for Avhat I
want of you. I want you to take a horse
from my stable, and to ride to my farm near
the Green Hills, and find Andrew Thompson.
Tell him from me that there’s mutiny brew-
ing in Sydney, and that to-night I purpose
leaving here for the Ilawkesbury, and would
have him get together so many people as
are to be trusted. Tell him that I fear the
Macartliur faction may seek to lay hands
upon me—may design to upset the Govern-
ment. Sydney is no safe place for me to
stay in these days. Say that I intend to
carry on the Government from the Hawkes-
bury—where, at least, my person will be
secure, and I may gain time to decide upon
a course of action. You can go at once?”
“But, your Excellency, I dare not leave
my guard!”
Bligli’s face stiffened, and he seemed about
to break again into one of his furious
outbursts. However, he controlled himself
with an effort.
“The Governor is the Commander-in-Chief
of the forces. You have my orders. I will
see to it that you do not suffer. When does
the officer of the day visit you again?”
“Not until evening, your Excellency. He
has been his morning round. He will not be
here again until after dark.”
“Very well, then. You will take the horse
and ride round the Domain and the Brick-
fields, till you make the Parramatta-road
beyond the town. Avoid Major Johnston’s
place at Annandale, and if any demand your
business tell them ’tis the . Governor’s busi-
ness. I will give you a written pass which
you may show at the toll-bars. None need
know that you have left your guard. Tell
Andrew Thompson to expect me to-morrow
morning, and to make ready. I have a
letter written for him. Come to the house
with me.”
“But this uniform, your Excellency—
’twill excite comment!”
“Damme man,” flared Bligh, “are ye a
- soldier, after all!” He checked him-
self. “That will not matter. You may wear the
uniform of one of my mounted escort. One
of them is about your size. I will keep
him by me all day, in case his tongue- may
be given to wagging. Come with me. Stay
a moment, though. Go and tell your cor-
poral that I place him in charge of the
guard, and that no one is to enter the
grounds without being detained until he
ascertains my pleasure. Then follow me
to the house.” .
Sergeant Mountain saluted, wheeled about
and marched into the guard-room.
* * * •*
.Tust at dusk on that momentous day—-
the 26th of January, 1808—as his Majesty’s
102nd Regiment of Foot was marching
across from the barracks to Government
House to dispose of Governor Bligh—colors
flying at the head of the column, and drums
and fifes shrilling and rattling “The British
Grenadiers”—Sergeant Mountain came to
himself in a little back room of the
Travellers’ Rest, five miles out of Sydney
on the Parramatta-road. His head throbbed,
his limbs were heavy, his recollection was at
fault. In his soul was confusion, which
gradually cleared and gave place to the
bitter realisation that he was altogether
undone. He felt for the Governor’s letter
to Andrew Thompson. It was gone. He
groaned wearily and sat up. A slit of light
shone under the door. He staggered to it
and lifted the latch. At a little round table
he saw _ a woman sewing. She looked up
and smiled at him. He slpod staring at
her uncertainly, dry in the mouth and throat.
She was a handsome woman and there was
a look of a devil behind the glance of her
sombre eyes.
“Jenny!” he gasped. “What’s happened?”
She laughed.
“ ’Tis as I told ye seven years ago, Charlie
—in Portsmouth when ye pressed my man,
Tom Lacy. I said I’d get even with you.
Well —I have. By this time Billy Bligh is
a prisoner and you’re a deserter. That’s all
there is to it. Tom died at Copenhagen.
You’ll, wish you had died there, too. before
they finish with you at the Coal River. You
didn’t know I kept this place, did you? I
didn’t know you were here in New South
Wales till I saw you ride up this morning.
Y r our rum was hoc’sed —we always keep the
stuff ready. ’Tis part of the business. And
now, Charlie, will ye not have a hair of
the dog that bit ye?”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Zemmrich the Coward.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ADOLF ZEMMRICH was abruptly
awakened out of a soul-weary leth-
argy by a stinging pain in his back,
which coincided with a blow that seemed to
have shattered the bridge of his nose. The
blood that the in taken breath sucked down
into his lungs suffocated him for a second
and then made him violently sick. Some-
thing whirred viciously out of the mist in
front, tore off the lobe of his left ear, and
then struck a metal object behind him with
a reverberating whang. Immediately after-
wards there came another which skimmed
between two fingers of one outstretched hand
like a red-hot wire. The third gouged a
shallow path across his cheek, and the
fourth flacked into the mud and mottled his
face with slime.
Then his nausea ceased, and with its ces-
sation came the realisation of minor disturb-
ances. For a time he was convinced that
he had been bayoneted through the back;
then he was equally oertain that the upper
portion of his face had been smashed in by
a rifle butt. When the water produced by
the strain of vomiting no longer flooded his
eyes, lie discovered that his head and shoul-
ders were dangling sack-like and fully
exposed over the parapet. Without any
consciousness of volition his shoulders
heaved upwards and his body toppled. over
backwards into the trench, carrying with it
the machine-gun which the recent explosion
had flung on top of him.
For several minutes man and gun lay
together in a kind of grotesque embrace; the
one torpid and dishevelled and the other
silent and demure. Ten times in as
many half-minutes did the flying shrapnel
reach downwards with claws of steel, but
the prostrate two were untouched. At
length Zemmrich opened his eyes again,
spat forth half a mouthful of mud, and sat
up wearily on the floor of the trench, push-
ing the gun aside irritably as he moved.
Then he remembered the explosive blast
from behind which had heaved him out of
his position. The recollection of his ludi-
crous ejection made him furious. He stared
up at the serrated horizon of crumbling
parapet and cursed the flippant insolence of
a rat that peered down (.it him for a second
out of a crack near the top.
From just in front amongst the hellish
tangle of protective wiring there sounded
the shuddering grunt of high explosive and
a black cloud swirled upwards and back-
wards over his head. As he leaned forward
to protect his head from the earth-dripping
blackness, a hard and heavy object thudded
on the nape of his neck and rolled off his
back into the mud. Ilis first thought was of
a clod of earthy then it occurred to him that
an enemy bomber might be hidden outside
amongst the shell craters. He straightened
up hurriedly and glanced round. An old
filth-encrusted boot stood placidly beside his
left knee and mocked .his sudden fright. In
his relief Zemmrich grinned at his disrepu-
table companion. Then the grin was blotted
out in an instant —for the boot was occupied.
He hurled it back over the parapet and tried
to forget.
With a kind of detached interest he
observed the lieutenant shepherding his men
towards the communication trench.
“All out!” yelled the officer. “Quickly !”
The last man stumbled towards the
entrance and on his way trod clumsily upon
the upturned face of a dead gunner. Zemm-
rich, who was watching languidly, was
extraordinarily affected by the thoughtless
brutality and almost screamed as the heavy
boot slid sideways into the mud.
“Come—you fool!” shouted the retreating
officer, as he swung into the opening. “They
will be here in a minute!”
Zemmrich did not answer, but stared
fixedly at the disfigured face. Then he com-
menced to shiver, for he could not close the
eyes of his memory to that sliding boot.
As he looked along the deserted trench he
felt a strange exhilaration. Soon the French
would arrive, and with them the prospect of
rest; for they did not deal harshly with the
captured, and Zemmrich was very weary.
Every second the outlook grew more seduc-
tive. He began to compose a brief state-
ment for the critical moment when....
A momentary picture unveiled itself in his
subconsciousness. The parapet suddenly
bristled with gigantic figures. They ail
stood poised on the edge for an instant
before they—God in Heaven! No! Then
the bombardment increased in intensity. It
seemed to the cowering man that a troop of
invisible and monstrous horses shod with
lightning were galloping madly backwards
and forwards along the parapet, pounding
the elaborate defences into shapeless ruin
and flirting' huge masses of earth sideways
with their flying hoofs.
Upwards and downwards raced this mur-
derous troop until the whole 'trench seemed
to be alive with alternate excavations and
mighty upheavals. No ten yards of the tor-
tured ground preserved the same appearance
for more than a few seconds, and the
poisoned air throbbed and surged under that
grim stampede.
All at once, in between two shell-bursts, he
heard a faint whistle. Immediately after-
wards came the distant sound of a mob
shouting in unison, and the shout was
vibrant with menace. It galvanised the
weary Zemmrich into virility. He crawled
painfully up the slope and dragged the gun
beside him., hauling on its carrier chain. lie
jambed it into a gap in the crumbling para-
pet and whipped the chain round a splintered
balk of timber. Then he waited with the-
ammunition-boxes alongside for the French
line to emerge out of the haze in front.
Suddenly the base of the mist two
hundred yards away became blotched with
moving figures, and Zemmrich swore encour-
agingly at his weapon, for his fear was now
defined. Then machine and man merged into
each other—which is the perfection of train-
ing.
To his tortured mind the enemy had one
great and horrible significance. All that he
lived for was to stop them —for the feet of
the dead cannot tread!
For nearly two hours he beat back the
■advancing lines with fiendish skill. Then
the attacks ceased. .Tust as he leaned over
sideways beyond the protection of the gun-
shield, something- struck his chest like' the
blow of a hammer, and as he rolled back-
wards he heard the voices of his returning
comrades. . . .
The lieutenant unpinned his Cross and
fixed it on Zemmrich’s jacket.
“The bravest man in the division!” he
said, and stood rigidly erect.
The dying man shuddered convulsively and
strove to speak. For sixty seconds ho
fought with his agony, whilst the officer list-
ened curiously to catch the last message.
Then the lieutenant knew Zemmrich to be
delirious, for he gasped chokingly:
“They are coming! They are coming!
\vill no one bury me? Face downwards! ....
U God I.... Face downivards /”...,
HAROLD LINDSAY.


■ q-
m
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTtNCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office 93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
asd
EXTINGUISHER
Saves 5 per cent. on
Automobile
Fire Insurance.
Price 55/ ■ each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
Weight, 61b.; Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS., LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
fa
CAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
With Bossh High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse Vay to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4-CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Smarts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
sdf
•Sole Australasian Agents :
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Pruitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
&
j
QTU
HOR LICKS
MALTED
MILK
SEE THAT YOURS GETS IT.
You will be rewarded by the way
in which he (or she) responds to
its strengthening qualities.
Delicious. Palatable. Easily Digested.
Made in a Moment, No Cooking.
w
m
Full particulars and sample sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps by
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
' Jamieson St., Sydney.
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
as
0 a 111 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
Caille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
4 : Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Calfle Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
YOURSELF
■
*
&
fit
bene
the
you.
for
11 do
wi
J&S.V
y^L's^t
l5f»C
&*£s#
&**•£
'.v
■■■•
'•S-V
£ri
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge
the wonderful hinterland
ounshme, Palm Trees .
Troptcal Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
aria scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about,l
is yours for the asking
/’iff in fhts coupon •
JVorne .
Address
/o fAo Drrecfor of
Intelligence &Tounslßureau,
Brisbane, CtDEEN
'L JA
m
mm
-
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens!
Seven
f*»“i*e Medals.
df
Works i Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
asd
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER Carburetor
is made in probably
The Largest Carburetor Factory in the World.
The Plant at Indianapolis, U.S.A., employs 1500
workmen, and has a capacity of 4000 complete
instruments per day. „
The Schebler is noted for Economy, Dependability, Power —
and there are hundreds of Satisfied Local Users.
There is a Scheblei* designed for
engine, whether Land, Marine or Aero.
every
type of
■CAR TYPES (N.S.W. Prices).
‘TOED” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit ,
“20-h.p. HUPP” Combination, with Manifold ready to fit S
“BUICK LITTLE 6” Combination, with Manifold reaciy to'fit .!!!!!!! *.!!!!!! 1
v “a ” ( i JnB l l » eS eaS>y startm £ and Quick acceleration.)
For Bsxod, StAud&rdi * ” w it » >
(Carburetor only). For Mod 51 8-evl liglit cars. £2/12/6 each
£4/15/-; Mod. 254 “Maxwell.” 1914 £4A/ . T * 4 /15/-; Chalmers,” 6-cyl.
“Scripps-Booth,” 1915? 4cyL, £2/12/? each “Overland,”’ £4/5/-;
£4/6/-, £4/10/- each. ’ / 7 each - lor oth er 20-h.p. Cars, £4, f4/5/-; 30-h.p.,
MOTOR-CYCLE TYPES (N.S.W. Prices).
Pur 7-h.p. Indian Combination, with ,
For 7-h.p. “Douglas’' or “Enfield” Twins 11 rearty to flt
For 7-h.p. “Excelsior,” “Harley Davidson ”
ROBERT
Sole
£3/2/6 each
' ' £2/10/- (Carburetor only)
CORRFSPnvnpMm, Henderson, etc., Twins £2/12/6 each
CORRESPONDENCE cordially invited.
C. SWAN & CO. LTD,, 304 Pitt St., Svdnev
gents »n Australia for Messrs. Wheeler & Seheblor. V °?*


NGROYITE
LEATHER
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAN GKO VITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting:, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Priee List on application.
The Mine Manager’s Friend.
The Celebrated “An Eagle on a Globe” Brand Mining Steel.
Easy to Sharpen, Durable
and Efficient.
fasd
fa
sd
fas
df
pljjjjp
Supplied
in OCTAGON and
CRUCIFORM SOLID SECTIONS,
HEXAGON and ROUND HOLLOW SECTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J. Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:— - ,
JAMES HARD/E & CO
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & Git AY LTD., Newcastle. [1
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc,, are expensive and troublesome.
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS “REGRINDING VALVE,”
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd ■j 82 Pin STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
PERMASITE
■■■■
ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
PAINTS
HIQH
GRADE
/ Dry Colors
I Oxides
I Ochres
{.Whiting.
VARLINE
e
GLUE )
PERMASJTE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. [2
BARGAINS in OIL ENGINES
All Sizes. 1£ to 12£ h.p.
W —.V-
£.ci)TmE>3
B
&
“Big Chief.”
AMERICA’S BEST.
Field Type (W).
A HIGH-GRADE ENGINE.
2 to 5 h.p.
Fairbanks, stosh.p.
Obtain full particulars before ordering
elsewhere.
CASH OB EASY TEEMS.
R.L.SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
p-
<
c
(o*o*
V/
y
o
sp
snalS
&ON
«
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat neeessary to weld destroys east-iron.
Sold in tins: lib.. 50/-; lib., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
Send for illustrated, descriptive Booklet, free.
Cast-Iron Brazing Co. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Vidoria.
m
riimllP-'
!*>»
vm
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR
DELCO-UGHT-
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE AGENTS:
fci.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
PB ’*BANE.
\W
THE WORLD’S LATEST
FARM ENGINE
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
Type
r
1917
Model.
Sole Agents:
FEATURES— i
WORKS ON KEROSENE .... which means Fuel Economy.
STARTS ON PETROL which means Quick Start—No Waiting.
THROTTLE GOVERNED .... which means Uniform Speed—No “Cut Out.”
GEAR-DRIVEN MAGNETO . . which means Hot Spark—Nothing Better.
MECHANICAL SPARK PLUG which means Fewer Spark Pit"- Troubles.
SPEED REGULATOR which means the Speed You Want.
OUR PRICES which mean Best Engine Value ever offered,
ASK FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
DANGAR, GEDYE 8 CO. LTD.. 9- 13 Young Street, Sydney.
e LEADING AUSTRALIAN ORE CONCENTRATOR
is the CARD.
MODEL D is the only table mounted on Flat Supporting Springs
which impart an idea! progressive movement .
/ 3
Patent Undergear.
Is, Jigs, Gyral Screens, Agitators,
lcxene
LTD.
City Office: Equitable Building, 350 George St., Sydney
MANUFACTURERS.
