

-The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. <3r. WATKINS «Sfc CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 l£.eilt Street, Sydney,
Mining’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ °and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants al way savant e.
c
V
S
clfZ Qctvauce, <^MxrnML-
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY /J
BILLS DISCOUNTED w
EASY TERMS r, LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&I.C? LTP
HEAD OrriCE: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Bu
180 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Street West, Sydney.
A d t*
King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
5-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR 50- PAGE BOOK.
L OSCILLATING
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY,
WALLAH
■■beds
GOLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
Por In- and Out-door Sleeping.
American Wall Bed 'Co.,
300 George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney
mmmmi
BACOH
HAMS
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
J UXKKT made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
i nsmsm
sdgsd
gsd
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded ISO First-Class Prize Medals.
ĥ gsd
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE SiLVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney .
C.M.A.
}
I
Royal
Butch
30S
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
“Not the same as others*”
ħ gsd
gsd
h gsd
g
—for a satisfactory roof
Malthoid has a fine appearance that is ideal for bungalows, and remarkable
strength and endurance equal to the needs of a flat roof or a woolshed. Be
on the safe side. No matter what the structure is—roof it with Malthoid —
the roofing with every advantage of all other roofings combined.
Samples and illustrated booklet mailed post free on request.
’(Un£
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
sdg
GOLD 'LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECTAL
S .V. o.
• O .. '
a\bertZodae*Cb
GLOBE PNEUMATIC RIVETERS,
DRILLERS, and PNEUMATIC TOOLS OF ALL KINDS.
WE HAVE STOCKS ON HAND.
109 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
115-117 "William Street,
MELBOURNE,
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
» --
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol.3B—No. 1937 ]
[Thursday, March 29, 1917.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a iNewspaper.


s-to
C>£
j£v?*s3
V? 2
S3KN
bp
s«3
?sv
52
%
Siris Cut Gold Bars
A High-grade Virginian Tobacco that will
not bite the tongue.
Specially Prepared and Packed in Hermeti-
cally-sealed lib. and £lb. Tins, which ensures
delivery in perfect condition.
lib. Tins, 8/-; Postage, lid.
J£lb. Tins, 4/-; Postage, 6d.
An Ideal Smoke for the Troops Abroad. We
Pack as per G.P.O. Regulations FREE, and
forward same on receipt of address and P.N.
value 9/- for lib., or 4/7 for lb. tins.
A Sample 2oz. Tin forwarded anywhere Post Paid for 1/2,
A. KEBBLEWHITE, Cigar & Cigarette Merchant,
“The Old Established House,” 19 Hunter Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
dsg
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
RILL THAT FLY.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520,
G.P.0., Sydney, and a sample tin of “Must-
die” Powder will be sent post free, or
forward 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
“MUSTDIE”
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
13
T he Red Page
Fiction
Nathan Ivussy makes a remarkable firs
appearance in fiction with The Abyss (Ma
millan, New York, per Dymock’s Library
He proclaims that this big volume is only t
first part of a contemplated trilogy, dealin
with the life of his hero. If the c-ontinuatio
is as absorbing as the present instalmen
Nathan Kussy will have pulled off a ver;
big thing. The Abyss is the story of a poo'
Jewish boy who is cast into the abyss
the underworld of those United States. Auc
the picture that this long, detailed anc
grimly realistic narrative reveals of tl
horrors of that world of poverty and crim
is almost revolting in its cruelty and pe
simism. Kussy does not need the emphas
of style; he gets his effect by the impressio
his detail evokes of an abiding underlyin
truth. The reader must remember that th
author is treating of the world of the N.Y
crook some thirty years ago. Condition
may have changed since he painted this re
volting picture: the reader piously hopes so
But that picture remains, engraved on th
mind of the reader.
Samuel Gordin was brought up in New
York as a child as well as his hard-workin
mother, a widow, could manage; but sh
died, and the child, hearing that he is to b
sent to an asylum for orphans, and thinkin
in his ignorance that he is to be placed i
the mad-house, flees in terror. The home
less kid is “adopted” by a professiona
beggar, and taught his trade. Th
whole world of the professional begga
—blind men who aren’t blind, anc
dumb men who chafe under the professiona
restriction "of not speaking till they are o!
duty—is revealed to the kid ; but his edu
cation demands more than this knowledge
He has to play his part; and one detail o:
his preparation, the deliberate maiming o:
his hand by a fiend of a woman into whoso
clutches he comes, is but the first of the
horrors that surround him. One episode
that of the death of a monkey, eclipses ir
its pathos and horror almost any “thrill” in
English literature. The reader would like to
believe that such a thing could not have hap
pened, even in the environment in which the
author declares it took place. But one is
almost forced to believe it true.
“Before many days have passed I realise
that I am in a den where children are
maimed and crippled so that they may more
readily appeal to the sympathies of the
tender-hearted, when they are sent out to
solicit alms upon the public street.... One
evening a big, stout villain comes to us, anc
brings with him a boy of ten whose arm has
been broken and improperly set, causing ii
to be bent and deformed. And Mamma
Winnikin examines the arm critically
(though the child starts back in terror ai
her touch), and the big villain tells her
that she made a good job of it and that he’l
always advise jockers to bring their pru-
shuns (children adopted by professiona]
beggars) to her for repairs. On anothei
evening a man comes in with a boy of If
who is lame. Mamma Winnikin deplores
the fact that he was so careless as to fali
from the window; but he retorts with an
oath that he knows who pushed him, anc
looks so ferociously at her that his jocker
roars in amusement.”
The boy flees from the scene of indescrib-
able horror at the monkey’s death, and falls
again into the hands of his “jocker.” Then
follows a series of sordid experiences as a
hobo, in which, as always throughout this
book, the author displays a detailed know-
ledge of this particular department of life.
Ultimately he is arrested as a vagrant, and
he discovers that life within a gaol is just
as callous and unjust and cruel as life out-
side. A ferocious murder takes places in
his cell, and the boy is accused of it by the
murderers. But though warned by the war-
den, who fears for his job, to tell a prepared
tale, the boy had the truth dragged from him
by a lawyer. He is told that he is innocent,
but is detained in gaol on the pretext that
he is required as a witness for a trial of the
"'’irderers, who have been allowed to escape.
He makes his “getaway” from the warder
with a well-known pickpocket known as
Red Bill, and the two make their way to the
only world they know, the world of the New
York crooks. There the lad has a vague
stirring towards a life of honesty and work.
“I am not repelled by vice, for I, too,
have wallowed in the dirt with the other
beasts of my species; but of late there has
been a strange seething within me, a strange
murmur which I cannot define, or explain,
or understand. Something within me has
changed... .What ails me? What has come
over me? I do not know. I only know that
something binds me to my past; that the
ties which I thought broken were not broken
after all; that, whether I will or bo, I feel
the tug of my childhood upon my sleeves, and
cannot shake it off. And this after years of
degradation, of evil companionship and evil
ways! (And yet that tug ©f baby fingers
upon my sleeves: why can’t I shake it off?).”
He determines that he will not become a
pickpocket, for which trade Reel Bill decides
his slim fingers are specially designed. Like
the hero of romance he shakes off his environ-
ment, and sets forth to seek for honest work.
But he finds it much harder than stealing.
A chance gives him a situation with a good
employer, but the New York detectives, who
have seen him with Red Bill, and who appa-
rently never forget a face—this clichd of the
American crook drama takes on an aspect of
truth by the author’s detailed explanation of
the police methods of impressing a crook’s
features upon the detectives —turn up and
inform his employer of the character of his
employee. The result is the sack for Sam
Gordin. Follow more experiences of seeking
for work; but in every case a detective
arrives, and the lad is turned away. At last
Gordin finds an employer who is willing to
give him a chance, though knowing his
antecedents. This one “Christian” employer
is a Hebrew pawnbroker ; and the boy feels
his feet safely upon the upward path. But
the road is not quite as easy as the roman-
cers glibly assert. And the story closes with
the lad, helpless before the police theory:
“Once a crook, always a crook,” turning
again to the underworld of crime.
In the sequel, however, Ivussy promises to
tell how his hero “walked in darkness,” how
again he groped for light, and how he
acquired an education—for at the end of the
first book Gordin speaks the same ignorant
dialect with which he began—and how he
emerged from the abyss.
The only criticism that the reader will
make of this story is not a distrust of the
truth of the conditions revealed, but a feel-
ing that chance would not have struck so
heavily whenever an opportunity arose for
the boy to escape his fate. In the last
phase of the story, when accused of a theft,
surely he could have proved his innocence by
a frank statement! And it is a wonder that
the boy never thought of finding a way out
by shipping as a sailor.
After all, why not write an occasional
novel for men? There are men who read
novels. And Gappy Ricks, by Peter B.
Kyne (H. K. Fly, New York, per Sydney
Book Club), is just the sort of stuff that
that poor worm, the man who reads novels,
is yearning for. It is a story of the sea,
told as a seaman would tell it. It is also a
story of ship-broking told by a ship-broker.
And it is an absorbing yarn. There is a
girl in it, but the author mercifully omits
all the love-making, and after she marries
the hero the author forgets all about her.
Matt Peaseley, the hero, is a Yankee cap-
tain who is quite sure of himself. Cappy
Ricks, the owner of the shipping line, deter-
mines to fire this impertinent youth, but
Matt Peaseley is not the sort that can be
fired. The telegrams that the two exchange
are full of mordant humor, and the struggle
between Matt and the irascible but capable
Cappy is full of surprises and humor
Then, finding that this youth is a capable
seaman, too good to lose, Cappy decides to
educate him by giving him the worst jobs in
the shipping business. A cargo of creosote
piles, another of green hides, and other
abominations worry Matt, but he survives;
and for every trick of the ingenious Cappy
he has a winning trump. Then the old man
changes his tactics. He sees that this boy is
in love with his daughter, and determines
to educate him for the post of his successor.
Thus he cunningly disapproves of Matt’s
suit, and continues to make a heap of
trouble for the youth. In the end Matt is
educated just as Cappy had meant him to
be. The latter part of the book, dealing
with Matt’s experience's in the shipping busi-
ness ashore, is not too complicated for the
business man.
Peter B. Kyne writes with a keen sense
of humor, and his story is full of neat char-
acter studies, done with the slick touch of
this portrait of one of the chief characters:
“Every large business office has its Skinner
—a. queer combination of decency, honesty,
brains and brutality, a worshipper at the
shrine of Mammon in the temple of the
great god Business, a reactionary Republi-
can, treasurer of his church and eventually a
total loss from diabetes, brought on by lack
of exercise and worry over trifles.”
&
There is much thought and much honest
character-drawing in Mrs. Victor Rickard’s
The Light Above the Gross Roads (Duck-
worth, per Angus and Robertson). This
is a story of the war. The hero, like-so
many heroes conceived by women-writers, is
a hero. Educated by a wise father for the
diplomatic service, fate decides that he must
serve his country as a spy. The mere fact
that he was an Irishman, and educated in
Germany, and the pretence that he had been
dismissed and disgraced by the British Em-
bassy in Berlin, hardly seem to account for
the Germans taking him into their service;
but, though suspected, Marcus is much too
clever a spy to be found out. The situa-
tion of a man who has to appear to his
friends as disgraced and a traitor to his
country, especially as he is in love with an
Irish girl, is “worked” for all it is worth
by _ the author; but the final scenes, in
which the man and the girl and the delight-
ful German who also loves the girl are
brought together on the battlefield, savors
too much of the conventional melodrama.
The reader feels that he is reading fiction,
not viewing life; but it is excellent fiction.
The characters of the decent German officer,
of a typical Prussian general, and of a
demimondaine spy are triumphs of expert
delineation; but the author writes of the
glamor of war, not of its mlity.
AMERICAN VERSE.
You are calling upon me,
Fashionably clothed,
Properly prepared with small talk.
I sit sedately and help build up
The stone wall between us, with my little
bricks of yes and no.
There are hothouse flowers on the table,
Kelt' ' York is outside the window—and
inside —-
The housemaid has set the chairs as care-
fully in their spheres as God could ever
have placed the stars.
Within the grate
There is a fire burning;
It has nearly gone out.
It is only a smouldering red thing now.
But as we look at it
Suddenly ages crumple,
The room vanishes,
You and I are a man and a woman in a cave
With fire—
—Mary Carolyn Davies.
AMBITION.
Kenton and Deborah, Michael and Rose,
These are fine children, as all the world
knows.
Btit into my arms in my dreams every
night
Come Peter and Christopher, FaPh and
Delight.
Kenton is tropical, Rose is pure white,
Deborah shines like a star in the night,
Michael’s round eyes are as blue as the sea
And nothing on earth could be dearer to
me.
But tvhere is the baby with Faith can com-
pare?
What is the color of Peterkin’s hair?
Who can make Christopher clear to my
sight,
Or show me the eyes of my daughter
Delight?
When people inquire I always just state:
“/ have four nice children and hope to
have eight.
Though the first four tire pretty and certain
to please,
Who knows but the rest may be nicer than
these?”
—Aline Kilmer, in Philadelphia Ledgeb.
AN OPERA HOUSE.
Within the gold square of the proscenium
arch
A curtain of orange velvet hangs in stiff
folds,
Its tassels jarring slightly when someone
crosses the stage behind.
Gold carving edges the balconies,
Rims the boxes,
Runs up and down fluted pillar*.
Little Icnife-stabs of gold
Shine out ivhenever a box-door is opined,
Gold clusters
Flash in soft explosions
On the blue darkness,
Suck back to a point,
And disappear.
Hoops of gold
Circle necks, wrists, fingers,
Pierce ears,
Poise on heads,
And fly up above them in colored sparkle*.
Gold!
Gold!
The opera house is a treasure-box of gold.
Gold in a broad smear across the orchestra-
pit:
Gold of horns, trumpets, tubas.
Gold — spun-gold, twittering-gold, snapping-
gold
Of harps.
The conductor raises his baton,
The brass blares out
Crass, crude,
Parvenu, fat, poiverful,
Golden.
Rich as the fat, clapping hands in the boxes.
Cymbals, gigantic, coin-shaped,
Crash.
The orange curtain parts
And the prima donna steps forward.
One note,
A drop: transparent, iridescent,
A gold bubble,
It floats... .floats....
And bursts against the lips of a bank-
president
In the grand tier.
By Amy Lowell, in The Independent.
WHAT BILLZAC READS.
“Gunner Ginger” : Apparently the idea of
Billjim having a taste of his own never
occurs to those who send him reading matter.
Ponder this list taken at random from the
various institutes at Maribyrnong Artillery
Camp, Vic.: Horner's Sunday Stories, vari-
ous yellowbacks, Sunday Times, illustrated
war magazines. The last are as unsuitable
as any of the others.
Muddy View Dugout, somewhere in
France, records its votes thus: For the
war novel: Nil. For humor: nine votes.
And the residents ask for something of this
sort: Billy Hughes, the Dinkum Melbourne
Anzac.
Wanted: Vers Libre
Upon this page are printed some charac-
teristic examples of vers Hire, a form o
poetry that has possibilities, as yet almos
unexploited by our own bards. The rules o
this new form are few, but vague, and han
to define. The assistance of rime and
strict metrical form is denied the vers libret
tist; the appeal of this free verse lies solely
in the control of rhythm and in the ters
expression of emotion or thought. The tru
vers Hire is not prose chopped into arbitrary
lengths, nor is it unrimed metrical verse. I
functions between these two extremes, am
must prove its right to an independent exist
ence by its inherent appeal.
This page offers a guinea for the bes
piece of vers libre received by May 5 ; entrie
to be addressed to this page. The subject fo
this competition is War—this war in an;
of its innumerable aspects and repercussions
not necessarily written by one who ha
taken part in it. For those of our bards
who are somewhere in France or somewhere
in Sinai or somewhere on the North Sea
another guinea will be offered for the bes;
piece of vers libre dealing with war sub
mitted by August 1.
•
Though there is only one English humor
ous artist who has been taken to the Britisl
army’s heart, there are others beside Bairns
father who deserve mention. Angus anc
Robertson (Sydney) forward a cheerfu
batch of illustrated war-humor. Aus
tralians find W. Heath Robinson’s Huntikely
inventions rather childish; but Lawson
Wood’s Splinters (Is.) is delightful work
full of character and brilliant drawing
Some of his jokes are famous, and some were
famous before he illustrated them. In his
illustration to such a joke as this: “Officer
‘Really, Smithers, your figures are damnable
Just look at this 3, anyone would take it foi
a 5.’ Smithers: ‘lt is a 5, sir.’ Officer
‘Good God, I should have sworn it was a
8!’ ” the artist’s types are just those from
whom such a dialogue would be expected
The Bosch Boole , by Alfred Leete (Is.) is
more commonplace fooling: it is so much
easier for the English to discover absurdities
in the Hun than in the Tommy. In Al
the Rumors, Leete has the collaboration oi
Reginald Arkell, who writes a rather obvious
verse commentary. Ragamuffins, by G. L.
Stampa (2s. Gd.), is much more human
humor. Stampa’s understanding of the
London kid is remarkable, and his humor
hovers close to pathos. An instance is
the illuminative illustration of the little girl
standing in front of a huge wall that has
fallen down. Suddenly noticing a policeman,
she cries: “I fahnd it like that. I never
done it, Mister; straight I never!”
William Watson, grown more bitter with
the years, aptly titles his latest collection
of little verses, Retrogression and Other
Poems (Lane, per Sydney Book Club). He
still labors over those too-perfect lines
that wallow in their sonorousness and are
packed so neatly that they leave the mind
nothing to wonder over. Of Dryden he says:
Who tore from the entrails of the mine
The metal of his iron line —
Iron that oft all molten rolled,
Hec ed to a billow, and crashed to g01d...,
and this of Gray:—
Who on worn thoughts conferred
That second youth, the perfect word,
The elected and predestined phrase
That had lain bound, long nights and days,
To wear at last, when once set free,
Immortal pellucidity
and this of Nature:—
Nature! whose lapidary ceas
Labor a pebble without ease,
Till they unto perfection bring
That miracle of polishing:
Who never negligently yet
Fashioned an April violet,
Nor would forgive, did June disclose
Unceremoniously the rose....
All crisply done, but about as appealing
as cold buttered toast. In his quest for
form in poetry Watson has not had room to
put in the heart. And this book is dis-
figured by bitter snarls against his critics
and foolish epigrams on.his enemies.
According to Wilfrid Wilson Gibson, the
English poet, literary criticism in England is
now done by maiden aunts. All the young
reviewers, who are mostly poets trying to
make a living, have gone to the war. This
possibly explains the belief that the war has
changed _ the character of the poetry and
prose being written in England, stopping all
the new .movements and causing a reaction
to mid-Victorianism. It is not the poets who
have changed: it is the reviewers. Being
maiden aunts or maiden uncles they can see
no beauty in modernity; hence the early Vic-
torians have come again into their own, and
the new poets are quietly suppressed. Before
the war, as the reviewers were preponder-
young, they were always sympathetic
with new movements in art and literature.
Luckily Australasian literature is safe. Our
young reviewers stick close to their desks
and never go to see.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for Farmers’ Wants
Double-furrow, £23.
Canton
Disc Plough
Emperor Sulky Hay Rake, £6/10/-
Bentall’s GMF Kibbler, £B/10/
Pony Feed Cutter, 77/6.
ALL THE GOOD POINTS which the MAN ON
THE LAND DESIRES in AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS are CONTAINED in THOSE
ILLUSTRATED on this page.
The RENOWNED CANTON DISC PLOUGH, in
treble-, double- and single-furrow patterns, has 26in.
discs, and is a most reliable implement. Treble Furrow
(weight 9001 b), £2B; Double Furrow (weight 7801 b.),
i,23; Single Furrow (weight 6301 b), *lB.
The EMPEROR SULKY HAY RAKE is a well-tried
aid to efficiency. It has 24 steel teeth and covers Bft.
• Price *6/10/-
BEK TALL’S G.M.F. KIBBLER will grind 4801 b.
maize per hour - £,8 ; 10/"
BENTALL’S No. 4 GRINDING MILL is also useful
and reliable *5/17/0
The PONY FEED CUTTER, at 77/6, will cut
Hay, Cornstalks and all kinds of rough feed. One man
can cut one bushel of hay in 35 seconds. Cuts from
3-16 to 2in. Weight, 1651 b.
The No. 8 CORN SIIELLER is a dependable
machine which will 'deal with 20 bushels hourly.
Price 85- No. 15, a TWO-HOLE CORN
SIIELLER, has a capacity by hand of 25 bushels per
hour, and 60 bushels hourly if worked by power.
Price • *B/10/-
Tlie WIARD GANG PLOUGH makes a double
furrow 22in. wide, and from 4to 8 inches deep. Has
soft centre steel mouldboards *lO/5 ~
The OHIO STANDARD FEED AND ENSILAGE
CUTTER is invaluable where fodder is siloed. It is
equipped with blower elevator and requires but slight
power to run. With Plain Table, *2si with Travelling
Table, as shown, *oQ
«.'Hn«iE>i lt
. .|i!| in p; |
i :uJ
Ben tail’s No. 4 Grinding Mill, £5/17 /«.
:V:.r
No. 8 Corn Shelter, 85/-
Wiard Gang Plough, £lO/5/
Ohio Standard Feed and Ensilage Cutter.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


V3J.S3H3MM.
.32, .35, •351 and .401 Caliber
Self Loading Rifles
When you look over your sights and see an
animal like this silhouetted against the back-
ground, you like to feel certain that your
equipment is equal to the occasion. It is, if
you are armed with a Winchester Self-
Loader. Not only does this rifle shoot
surely, strongly and accurately, but it gives
you a chance to get in a number of shots
in quick succession. It is the rifle of rifles
FOR ALL KINDS OF HUNTING
After The Bath
“baby” should be well dried. To leave him partly dry
exposes him to colds. The towel is not enough, as
excessive rubbing chafes his tender skin.
nan
Borated Talcum Powder
Absorbs moisture and dries him thoroughly.
It fills the crevices and folds of his skin with a soft lubri-
cant that prevents chafing and irritation—it keeps his
skin smooth and promotes restful sleep.
MENNEN’S TALCUM POWDER
is the product of our own mines in Italy. It is today recog-
nized by Doctors, Nurses, and Mothers to be the finest in
texture, and freest from impurities than any. Properly
borated and faintly scented by “Mennen’s” secret process.
Insist on the Original—on the only Genuine MENNEN’S Borated Talcum
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
-ower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
Trade Mark
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
Joi** those f P™ ished b y Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
pe ? p eWI accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
t i hen r> Cle u D ' 9° d wa * er and soa P and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes. crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
ETJDENTA TO?™ PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
mTVPUvrnrui garden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
ELDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, l/o. Free sample posted. ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne
FEDERAL LORRIES =
Powerful I
Every FEDERAL lorry has plenty of reserve power to handle the
hardest haulage problem. No expense has been spared to make the
FEDERAL the best built motor truck.
FEDERALS are built in a factory that specialises in the manu-
facture of lorries. Years of experience and thousands of satisfied
owners have made the FEDERAL the standard the world over.
You will recognise the value of FEDERALS after they have
given you evidence of their strength.
FEDERALS are built in five capacities—l ton, ton, 2 ton.
ton, and 5 ton —worm drive exclusively.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative: BOX 635 Adelaide.
A warded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[4
Calvert's
Ointment
is just what you may
want any time, any day
a healing, soothing,
antiseptic ointment.
Keep a supply by you ready
for cuts, scalds, scratches and
chafed or sore skin.
In cases of insect bite, piles,
eczema, or ringworm it has
also been proved useful.
Sold by local Stored & Chemists.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
WAVERLEY
THE “ BOON AND BLESSING” NIB
HP*
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world - wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs Of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold & Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
A Resident of Richmond, N.S,W., writes of the Value of
CLEMENTS TONIC,
and the Letter Tells its Own Story.
William Street Richmond.
N.S.W., 8/10/’l5.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“A few words of thanks to you for the good your wonderful medicine has done
for me: I think that I have been one of the greatest of dyspeptics on record, suffering
with weakness, lassitude, bad headaches, and my nerves were in a very bad state.
“I tried many remedies, but they did not do me any good. My mother has great
faith in your wonderful tonic, and has used it on and off for years, with excellent
results.
“She advised me to give Clements Tonic a trial, and it was a happy day for me
that I bought three bottles, It increased my appetite and strengthened my nerves
and body. Every dose seems to make me feel stronger, and I can now eat and sleep
well. I sincerely trust that other sufferers will benefit by its timely aid.-
“You may-use this as you deem fit, as it is all the truth,
“(Signed) MARY. O’BKIEN.”
Mrs. MAY SWEENY, of Macquarie Street, Parramatta, writes, on 7/4/16, the story
of how she tested Clements Tonic in a recent illness. Here is what the test
proved:—
“In the latter end of 1914 I tested your medicine. The results were so good I feel
under a deep debt to Clements Tonic.
“My daughter, who is 17 years of age. appeared amemic, and she had lost all the
freshness that youth should possess.'
“She was listless, without energy, with unstrung nerves. Clements Tonic soon
transformed her to a bright, healthy girl.”
.Mrs. LOUISA JANE DALEY’, of 413 Church Street, Parramatta, writes a Clements
Tonic letter of interest to women (5/4/’l6).
“I am glad to relate what Clements Tonic has done for me.
“It was in December last I had occasion to take it. Through not weaning my
baby. I fell away in weight, my strength failed, until I was on the verge of collapse.
“Through the counsel of a friend I took Cleinents Tonic, and its effect on me was
a revelation. I have found it also invaluable for indigestion. Use this as you wish.”
THE NURSE ADVISED CLEMENTS TONIC.
In this case. Mrs. CATHERINE FREEMAN, of Short Street, North Parramatta,
suffered from nervous prostration. Here is her storv of recovery, written
5/4/’l6: —
“Your medicine has been a blessing to me: I could not have done without it. I
suffered from nervous prostration. I could scarcely keep on my feet. My head
whirled round continually.
“Finally I took to bed. I had a nurse to look after me. She advised,me to take
Clements Tonic. I took a good course of it. I was soon able to get out of bed and
perform my household duties again. Use this as you think best.”^
You cannot do better than keep this medicine handy. Use it when you feel
fatigued, listless and nervy. For want of sleep, poor appetite, sluggish liver and sick
headache it is invaluable. Try it. All Chemists and Stores sell it.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


MARK
Ideal Hunting Knife-
pand Safety Axe
Two articles indispensable to the
comfort and ofttimes the safety of outers.
Examples of the practical worth of
MARBLE’S "Sixty Sporting Specialties.”
Marble's Safety Axe
—the handiest tool a sportsman
ever carried. The nickle plated,
spring - hinged guard, lined
with soft lead, protects the blade
and folds down into the handle. Blade
of best tempered steel. Slips easily
into your side pocket where it is out
of the way but always at hand.
Marble’s Ideal Hunting Knife
19 just the all-round knife you need. Es-
pecially designed for all hunting uses.
Made from the finest cutlery steel, care-
fully ground and tempered. Every knife
guaranteed. See these goods at your dealer.
We will gladly tend you postpaid complete
illustrated catalog of MARBLE’S "Sixty Sport «
tng Specialties’* on request.
sd
Marble Arms & Mf g. Co.
611DeltaAr.,Gladstone,Mich.,U.S.A.
Cable Address “Marble" Gladstone
Australian and New Zealand
Representative
HARRY MOLOEN. Box 1349.
SYDNEY
\
Guarded
187
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Rarely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Pront & Co.. 22b Strand. London.
m
/
\
5S
Ji
&
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
IfICARBOLIcfI
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
Manchester, Eng.
TOBACCO KILLS!
'r
■/r
t&<P
at
•jZ
?
Face to Face with Deal *> I
thp SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
Intell & and , C) sarette Habits. It is abso-
effects, end c*;«7p“ ZS!j! n " “
Free Package Offer.
_ ®, end 2d - stamp and we will post you a trial
with g n„r° f r hlS ' vonderful reln etly, together
TRIAT PArrAf'v ßo ? lilet ’ Testimonials, etc.
iUIALi PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
ll ' Smith, of Pari; Farm, Jericho, Tas-
h?T J t : , l vas a hard smoker for SO
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
290XonnelT Street, Sydney. fB .
(PVO
A COOLING LOTION
FOR SUNBURN. BATHERS
MOTORISTS
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
OR POST FREE
raa.
V
'BONNINCTON & CO., LTD/
ty» HUBRIS ST„ SYDNEY
Mosquitobane
A friend in need for
Camping. Fishing, the
Bush. Etc. Will keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
ALL CHEMISTS
1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
t HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
[2
CELEBRATED
s
cw
CT-
-7T
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young:—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—•
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following;
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart [1
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
gsd
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will qupte you price for it.
"THE man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to his work refreshed, alert,
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always. He
gets the best out of himself and out of life —and keeps at
arm's length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation —the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
What, we call courage is
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual' nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
per bottle.
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sidney,
Sole Proprietors, E, GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade , Manchester, England.
VARIOS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Wind-Folk.
The wind-folk are casual —they scamper here
and there,
Plucking at a petticoat, dancing o’er a pate,
Stirring into gay pools all the heated air;
Swaying with a rose-spray, swinging with a
gate.
Oh, the jocund wind-folk perched upon the
slats!
Oh, the merry light legs a-dance because they
must,
Putting nimble white toes to sombre silken
hats
Rolling them and kicking and clouding them
with dust!
Flinging into hard eyes clouds of flying
leaves,
Roaring up an alley-way, whining down a
lane,
Dropping through the dim dust, scuffling in
the eaves,
Whistling through a front door and out the
back again!
Tramping up the steep hill where the horses
browse,
Tugging at their brown manes, toying with
their tails;
Down and up and down again to kiss a
maidep’s blouse,
Through a street and o’er a pier to punch
the sagging sails!
Stepping through a dim church, there to
snatch a prayer,
Teasing it and tossing it with many a merry
shout;
Sorting out the frail words and mixing them
with air ;
Dancing up the altar stairs and blowing
candles out!
Ballooning in the cassock of a prating,
rating priest;
Plucking at the orange-blossom of the
bridal-wreath ;
Preaching all the logic that the best is but
the least—
The robe but blinds the vision to the flesh
that is beneath.
And yet to-night-the wind-folk walk many a
darkened room,
Placing cool and pallid hands upon the
fevered cheek ;
They stroke the streaming hair of Grief all
dank within the gloom,
And lull to sleep the moaning word the lips
of Pain would speak.
Into dirty alley-ways, into garrets bare,
The wind-folk are busy folk and noisy with
commands,
They kick the buttocks of Disease down
many a reeking stair
And batter at the face of Grime with tiny
knuckled hands.
Grey doors and fastened doors, fumbling for
the latch,
Whimpering through keyholes, shouting
down the flue;
Tugging at a casement and lugging at the
catch,
Blowing up a drawn blind to let the world
come .through !
Dancing, prancing wind-folk, singing birds’
songs,
Tones that gird the harbor-side, tunes that
crown the hills,
Drowning with a blithe stave the sordid City
wrongs,
Mocking at the drab coins snared within the
till!
Swing the dusty door wide, lift the window
high ;
Draw the chair and palm the chin above the
window sill!
The wind-folk are frolicking between the
earth and sky
Bringing Life and Joy and Love and
Laughter when you will!
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Fairies’ Fair.
Who’s that dancing on the moonlit air,
Heel-toe tapping,
Toe-heel rapping?
Oberon opening the fairies’ fair
To jig away Sorrow on the grave of Care.
Come along, old folk, cold folk, bold folk,
Drop your shears at the midnight stroke.
Elves are crying:
“Who’ll come buying
Jugs of Joy from a fairy’s cloak?”
Mab is sitting on a silver shoe,
Bright eyes laughing,
Light lips quaffing
Airy bubbles from a cup of dew';
Her bracelets tinkle with delights for you.
Come along, tall folk, small folk, all folk.
Race the stream where the fat frogs croak.
Buy a bobbin !
There goes Robin
Tying Time to a daisy’s yoke!
What’s for sale at the fairies’ fair?
Tiny trumpets,
Nuts and crumpets,
Gossamer gowns that the spiders wear,
And w r ee red ribbons from the Poppy’s hair!
Coine, buy a moonbeam slender, tender,
Posset pans or a witch’s spur,
Pixie packets,
Goblin jackets,
Stifling Age in their elfin fur.
AH you pay is a dream or two.
Fancies reeling.
Toe and heeling,
Purchase the pleasures that the fairies woo,
For hone want money as the Grey-folk do.
Come for the wee ware, free ware, glee ware,
Holiday smiles in your loosened hair.
Take your fiddle,
Trip the middle.
Buy back Youth at the fairies’ fair.
jST.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


E?
/
Y/
WATERSHED— OILSKINS
The most protective coats ever invented. Suitable for Riding 1 ,
Driving, Walking and all classes of work that take men
out of doors during wet weather. Note these special features
1. Buttons down the side instead of in front, t hus providing a seamless
apron front for driving, motoring, walking or riding.
2. Seamless epaulet cape covering all shoulder seams and giving double
" protection where most wanted.
3. Overlapping sheath in front to cover the buttoning across the chest.
4. Saddle pleat in bach that can be unfastened when the coat is used for
riding.
5. Elastic inner cuffs. 6. Extra full shirt. 7. Guaranteed waterproof.
MADE IN TWO WEIGHTS:—
Dugong-Watershed
Light weight for general wear,
Rainbow-Watershed
Stout make for rough wear,
35/- 28/6
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STORES.
4ft
BRISBANE * /\DEZI_AIC>EH.- F^E-F^T^rl
m.
m
//// /
v/y
1
1
w
W-
VI
m
m\
■;!' I
>i ‘
gsd
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
t° Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
rV
Gather up your Lines and Hooks
Hie you off to shady nooks on river bank in-
viting. Take ample store of bait, for pals take
George and Kate. Make haste or you’ll be
late; the fish are freely biting.
/ There’ll be grub, of course, to buy; that’s easy.
“Rex” Camp Pie
' will prove the very tack.
It’s ready cooked to eat,
, • Every particle is meat,
It comes in tin so neat,
All vote it Crackerjack.
And here’s a word of caution, no bites may. be your portion,
Fishermen should be ready for a little adverse luck.
Don’t sit and curse and buck, but into Camp Pie tuck. Sold
by all Grocers steady.
NCH EON
L ,^
» _/
“NULLI SECUNDUS”
“Rex”
Luncheon Cheese
Try all these “Rex” Canned Delicacies:
“Rex” -Ham Pate.
"Rex” Veal and-Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausage, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, lilb. tins.
"Rex” Luncheon Cheese in soz.
decorated' tins and soz. enamel
jars.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Ox Tongues in Jelly, 1J
and 21b. tins.
“Rex” Lorraine Sausages.
Also “Rex” Brand Lard for cook-
ing purposes in lib. prints.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
C. 4
Forge Work a Pleasure
BILLETT’S PATENT HOT-AIR TUYE
aa
Works without
water.
Gives a Quick,
Clean Fire.
Thousands in use
throughout
Australia.
J
Now is the Time to Buy
No. 1, 30/-; No. 2
/Suitable for\
VQeneral Work/?
35/-; No. 3, 45/-
Purchase from your Hardware Merchant.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS-
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
350 George St., Sydney.
A reliable medicinal spirit
Martell’s, being particularly rich in higher
ethers, is of great value for use in hospitals
and in case of sickness.
Is a fine beverage, also.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.
The delectable flavor
of Thorne’s Whisky makes you
keenly relish it at all times.
«
Connoisseurs have preferred it
for over 80 years.
Call for Thorne’s —and enjoy
Scotch Whisky at its best.
THORNES
O.H.M. “INCOMPARABLE”
WHISKY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 3 3 .—No. 1937.
THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 1917.
Price 6d.
“ABOUT TIME I HAD A CLEAN-UPSKI.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Mail.”
Printed and published by William Maceeod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 fa’s. 6'd. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, .etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS . when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS., to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml. Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — -N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs Neics Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diegg, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —.Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
I-long Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherxoise: Boz., Id.; 81oz. to 10oz., 21d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/OZ-> Id-, and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 1917.
THE GREAT EVASION.
How much reliance can the Australian elec-
tors place in any promises the Liberals may
make to change the Commonwealth tariff
from being a mere instrument of taxation
into what it ought to be —-a wall against the
importation of manufactured goods which
should be produced by Australian workers?
By this tariff over £13,000,000 is being
raised in revenue each year. The search
for money by the seven Governments is now
so desperate, the Liberal habit of what it
calls “equally distributing the burdens of
responsibility” so deeply ingrained, that
hope of an effective tariff emerging from
that direction has not been causing the
importers any loss of sleep. What of the
promises that Labor may make?' Judged
by what happened to the promises it made
three years ago a further instalment would
be entitled to less admiration than a yarn
about a Fiji uncle were it not that the Free-
trade influences which controlled Labor
policy in the past have been tossed over-
board, and that Labor sees the certainty of
nearly all it stands for going to the scrap-
heap unless the tariff is put upon a proper
basis. Between the two parties in the last
Parliament Australia lias been badly dam-
aged. This paper, judging strictly on per-
formances, is not going to pretend to believe
that the present choice is all it should be.
But it believes that Labor is much less
likely than the other' crowd to sell the elec-
tors a gold brick.
Meanwhile there are a few things to be
said about a tariff. One is that the system
of flinging a schedule down in front of Par-
liament for parties to wrangle over like
hungry pups around a bone is an easy but
sure way of making a hash of the whole busi-
ness. Another is that .a wild lumping of
duties on anything and everything does not
constitute a Protection that is worth having,
A third fact incidental to the consideration
of a tariff is that, where the State offers pro-
tection to an industry, that industry must
make a responsive development. And, finally,
external borrowings amount to the same
thing as wholesale purchases of outside
manufactures. A continuation of borrowing
by Australia will therefore discount such
protection as the tariff may afford. It is to
this that the enormous imports of the last
few years are due. Our foreign loans have
been converted into goods. This must always
occur, tariff or no tariff; and anyone who
comes along with promises to “develop Aus-
tralian industries by the application of a
truly Protective tariff” and also to “main-
tain a vigorous policy of construction by
means of loans” is either a blockhead or a
sharper. Borrowing means Bloat. Protec-
tion means Work—the encouragement of
enterorise and skill. It contemolates an
Australia subsisting on production, not an
Australia loafing on the production of other
people. It means keeping out of debt, pay-
ing the bills, making a nation capable of
standing up on both feet —an Australia de-
pendent only on Australia and self-respect-
ing because self-reliant. If anyone imagines
that Australia can ever be this in reality
without the protection of her growing in-
dustries he imagines a vain thing. So does
the citizen who has the idea that a tariff
against imports can be effective - without
work. So also does the misguided person
who persists in believing that loans “bring
capital into the country” in the shape of
cash. Loans bring goods. Nothing but pro-
hibition would keep goods out; and if aspara-
gus and millinery were put on a black list,
double quantities of complexion powder and
scenic stockings' would arrive instead.
It is, of course, a tragedy that in a coun-
try like Australia —heavily in debt, sparsely
peopled and moth-eaten by party politics—
the tariff should be the sport of groups who
are on deck at one moment and overboard
the next. If the tariff could be taken out of
politics the benefits to the country would be
illimitable. As it is now, the tariff is framed
with one eye on the revenue and the other
half-shut unless there are votes to be cap-
tured. Consequently duties are imposed
upon many articles, not for purposes of pro-
tecting an industry, but to yield cash for the
Treasury—articles which no sane man or
woman believes anyone will even dream of
manufacturing in Australia within the life-
time of people now living. There is no justi-
fication for this —at any rate, when the goods
are such as enter into common use. Duties
are imposed on articles which are often
enough the raw material of another indus-
try, and industries which might reasonably
supplv the whole local market have to com-
pete against imported goods, of which the
raw material had been drawn to the country
of manufacture from /Australia. There is
chaos at almost every point—no concentra-
tion on the achievement of definite ends in
specified directiops; an abandonment of
everything to the off-chance of the public
getting through somehow; problems of the
greatest complexity, demanding continual in-
vestigation, left to be decided by the party
yell or the private wirepull. This sort of
thing is not Protection —scarcely even a bad
imitation of it. The sooner the tariff is
based on a clear conception of what the Aus-
tralian people want to have done instead of
what political parties conceive to be expedi-
ent for themselves, the better. The Com-
monwealth might then have Protection to
carry out the national policy, and protection
also against hot-air merchants who rant
about a tariff as if it were a new thing in
patent medicines.
The issue the Australian Parliament has
to deal with is not going to be determined by
the mere defeat of Freetraders and revenue-
tariffists at the polls. No intelligent Protec-
tionist believes that a Customs duty is a
cure-all, nor listens without 'a good deal of
contempt to much of the talk that flows from
the political mouth on this subject. Unless
the Protectionists returned to Parliament
abandon 90 per cent, of the commonplace
blither about Protection being “essential to
enable Australia to meet the competition of
cheap foreign labor” the electors will have
made a poor selection. All foreign labor is nqt
low-priced. Some of it is paid at a consider-
ably higher rate than Australian labor, and
when the local loan-mongers have done their
worst, and Australians get down to dealing
with the facts and realities of life, this will
probably apply more widely than it does to-
day. To the infant industrv of a new coun-
try the products of the highly-specialised labor
of an older country, working with the latest
technical equipment and receiving generous
rates of pay, are just as great a menace as
the goods issuing from places where the
worker is cheap. Australian engineers re-
quire to have their industry protected against
workers who are paid £1 a day as much as
against those who get 24d. Measured by the
purchasing power of money there are groups
of industrial workers in Europe whose pay
is as high as that of Australians; but unless
the Australian market is held for the local
inhabitant, the factory at the distance, because
of the size of its output and its bigger equip-
ment. will capture the local trade. The
simple question is whether Australia shall
manufacture for herself, people the country,
and work towards achieving an economic in-
dependence. Whether foreigners who are
doing this pay high or low wages has nothing
to do with the matter. That is their busi-
ness. The business of Australia is to produce
enough to live upon and pay her way; and
the standard of living must in the end
depend upon the ability of the Australian
people to make use of their opportunities, the
material at their hands and the market which
other people are now finding in their midst.
[S. H. Prior. F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George Street, Sidney.]
SOME INTERESTING EXPERIMENTS
IN PUB LEGISLATION.
After 10 years’ vigorous work the Victorian
Licenses Reduction Board has-had its job
changed. The State’s Act of 1906 was the
most scientific attempt yet made in Aus-
tralia to reduce the number of pubs and
improve the quality of those that remained
without doing violence to those men who
■were pushed out of the business. Under the
earlier Victorian law local option was given
a chance. But it was both uncertain and
unfair in its results. Under every licensing
law r which had thus far embodied the prin-
ciple of compensation, every closure made
it more difficult to close any other pub,
because the pub that was left became more
valuable. That difficulty was got over by
fixing the value of the license, both to the
owner and to the licensee, on the basis of
the pub’s position in 1903-4-5 in the case
of licensees and in 1904-5-6 in the case of
owners. The compensation to be paid might
be less than the figures thus arrived at, but
not more. Two other things were done:
the number of licenses to which any licens-
. ing district was entitled was fixed on the
basis of population, and a Compensation
Fund was created by an annual levy of 3
per cent, of the cost of the liquor purchased
by the hotelkeeper. At the end of 1906 there
were 3448 hotels open in Victoria, and this
was 1368 in excess of the number to which
the State was entitled on the population
basis adopted. The job of the Licensing
Reduction Board was to use the Compen-
sation Fund, year by year, to buy out as
many of that 1368 as the money in hand
would allow. The experiment was to be
tried for 10 years.
The 10 years were up on December 31,
and the results have astonished even those
who were responsible for the experiment. No
.less than £545,045 was paid into the Compen-
sation Fund; and with £540,851 of this
money 1054 hotels have been delicensed. In
the vast majority of cases the Reduction
Board has decided as between various pubs
which should be closed. The natural con-
sequence has been a competition among the
hotels in an overstocked district to so im-
prove themselves and their conduct that the
axe should not fall on their own necks. The
Board’s general policy has been to cut out
the pub that was a mere drinking shop;
and the importance of that incidental reform
can hardly be over-estimated. Yet because
of the cast-iron rigidity of the law, the
Board had no authority whatever over the
pubs, no matter how evil in themselves or
how badly conducted, in districts which
were not over-pubbed according to law. In
the few under-pubbed districts the position
was not improved by the difficulty of getting
authority through a poll of the electors to
increase the licenses. In only three districts
in 10 years was a poll successful.
* * * , #
An Act passed, last year, in view of the
pending expiry of the 10-year period, has
removed some of the comparatively few
defects exposed by the operation of the old
law. -On the expiry of the 10-year period
Parliament provided that local option
should come into use again, the first poll
to be taken at the first general election after
January 1, 1917. But once more there was
a score for Cold Tea, who has been fighting
his campaign with an intelligence and a
cunning quite unexpected; for, using the
war as a pretext, he pushed the first local
option poll on to the second general election
after January, 1917, the newly-created
Licensing Court being meantime entitled
to proceed “as if reduction had been carried
in every licensing district throughout the
State.” The possible, not to say highly
probable, effects of this are very far-reach-
ing. Again and again the old Board,
which has now been constituted a Licensing
Court for the entire State, has complained
Of its lack of authority over pubs in dis-
tricts either under-pubbed or owning just
the statutory number of beer pumps. JL'he
assumption that the district has voted for
reduction removes that grievance; and the
pub which has been disreputable because it
has felt safe may soon find itself sprawling
outside in the gutter. This dreadful possi-
bility is a whip that is going to, drive many a
pub in Victoria to call in the carpenter and
the painter in order to avoid a visit from
the undertaker. A lot can be done in regard
to the closure of such pubs at no great
cost, though so far as money is concerned
the Fund will be in a stronger position now,
probably, than ever it was. At any rate
a new basis of contribution has been estab-
lished. In Victoria, as in most other
States, there has been a fixed license fee,
having no relation to the business trans-
acted. Under the new law this fixed fee
is abolished, and a total contribution of 6
per cent, of the cost of liquor purchased is
payable, three-eighths of it by the owner
and five-eiglitlis by the licensee. This basing
of the license fee upon the liquor consumed
will admirably suit the useful little country
pub, which was so harshly treated under the
old law that many a license, desirable from
the point of view of public convenience, was
voluntarily surrendered.
* * * *
At the second general election after
January, 1917. the State will vote for reduc-
tion. continuance or no license; and if no
license is carried there may be a subsequent
vote for restoration. In the latter case
probably, and in connection ivith a special
brand of license that may be granted in
the Mallee certainly, a new principle of tre-
mendous consequence has been introduced.
It. was shown during the hearing of a case
in N. S. Wales the other day that for the
goodwill of a pub in a not-very-populous sub-
urb of Sydney £lO,OOO was paid to the lessor.
That was the value of the license for a
possible maximum of 21 years, and was
apart altogether from the heavy rent of the
premises. The new Victorian law lays
down the principle, in effect, that that
£lO,OOO belongs to the State which grants
the license. The Licensing Court has cast
upon it the duty of ascertaining the “added
value” given to the premises year by year;
and that monopoly value is to be paid to
the licensing fund. It is an interesting
attempt made to obtain for public or semi-
public purposes a little of that unearned
increment whose appropriation for private
purposes is one of the curses of the curious
thing we like to call our modern civilisation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Dardanelles Inquiry.
It is not only the friends of the pilloried
people who will feel resentment at the action
of the British Government in connection
with the report of the Dardanelles Commis-
sion. Any man who makes the Fair Deal a
rule of personal conduct must feel discom-
fort if not disgusted because of this crude
attempt to “disguise political rancor in the trap;
pings of public duty. The reflections upon and
allegations against Kitchener and AsquiTh
and Churchill and others may or may not
be deserved. That is not the point, for the
best of all reasons —that if it was there
are no means by which it can be tested. This
paper was always disposed to discount the
popular ideas about Kitchener and did so
many times. It has never been able to feel
enthusiastic over Asquith. But it has always
recognised that they were both remarkable
men and is prepared to believe now that,
taking all the circumstances of the hour into
consideration, their services to their country
were given with a singleness of purpose and
devotion to duty which more than condone
those minor errors that may be charged
against them. Whether this view or any
other will have to be revised in the light of
a greater knowledge matters nothing. The
certain thing is that to put these men in the
dock now, read a censored indictment against
them and on that alone pass a verdict of
condemnation is a monstrous abuse of the
Fair Thing. The dead Kitchener and the
living Asquith and Churchill and a
dozen others have been given a cooked deal.
Who is to know whether the evidence pro-
duced before the Commission justifies the
report? Where can a word be found to
answer Asquith’s protestation that to with-
hold the evidence on which a public report
is based is grossly unfair? This thing leaves
a nasty taste in the mouth. It will do
Lloyd George, ■ Carson and Bonar Law no
good. That the High Commissioner for
Australia should have been associated with
a Commission which appears to have been
used as a poison-gas retort is a lamentable
circumstance. The Bulletin permitted it-
self the luxury of several derisive words
when the Commission was appointed and
had the satisfaction of hearing later that
Fisher -was not appointed as a represenV-
tive of Australia. Had this not been made
clear there would be an immediate obliga-
tion on the Commonwealth Government to
disown Australia’s connection with the low
down trick of some venomous partisan of the
two-penny variety.
The Yearning of Hughes for Hush.
When Hughes was in Sydney last week a
Telegraph reporter put it to him: —
In the event of the Ministry being returned with a
majority at the elections, will the next delegation to
London be the same —yourself, Irvine, and Forrest?
Hughes : Of course, I will say nothing about that.
At the risk of being prosecuted under the
War Precautions Act for talking in a man-
ner calculated to prejudice recruiting, The
Bulletin interposes that this addition to
the things that Hughes wants to say noth-
ing about is not good enough. Weeks ago
Hughes told Australia that it was a matter
of “vital necessity” that the Commonwealth
should be represented at the Conference.
His fuglemen have been weeping tears of
blood that Australia is not represented.
Cook has been explaining once every 24
hours that the Labor party is to blame.
Brother Bean has forwarded dispatches
from the trenches announcing the disgust of
the army. Every issue of the S. M. Herald
has a sob over the situation “in which every
citizen is deeply interested.” This paper
agrees to some extent with all this. Every
Australian is interested in the representation
of Australia, and has a just cause of quarrel
with the Ministry for not appointing Fisher
to go on with. The representation of this
country—for there will be more Conference
after the one now sitting—enters sharply
into the issues to be decided at the election.
Is the spokesman to be Hughes alone or
Hughes fortified by Big.toiin and Irvine?
What is the Government’s policy on this
matter ? Hughes ought to say. It he does not,
the only possible conclusion is that he wants
to keep the subject covered up. In either case
the Australian citizen who objected to the
posturing wind-baggery of the last visit can
help to save his country from having to en-
dure any more of it. The opportunity will
come on May 5.
[S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 211
George Street, Sydney.]
♦
Neglected Millions.
Within less than a hundred miles of Syd-
ney Harbor there are the most important
known beds of oil-sliale in the world. They
are probably the largest; in view of then
exceptional richness they certainly contain
the greatest quantity of oils. The value of
the contents runs into tens of millions--
possibly hundreds of millions. Yet, though
no country in the world wants millions more
than Australia does, and though no countri
is so badly in need of the thousands of men
to whom these deposits might give employ-
ment, we continue to import all our fuel and
lubricating mineral oils, all our paraffin wax
and most of the other articles which the
Wolgan and Capertee shale-beds could sup-
ply. Though our requirements have enor-
mously increased, not only because of the
growth of our population but also because or
the vast multiplication of machines that use
liquid fuel, we actually do less with our
own resources than we did 30 years ago,
when little Hartley was made busy by the
N. S. Wales ShahTand Oil Co. Our great
misfortune was that that little co. was
bought put by the most scandalously mis-
managed concern that ever made a pretence
of developing this country with foreign capi-
tal. But that does not affect the essentials
of the matter. Here we have these vast
potentialities; we need population and work
for the people to do, and shall need it more
than ever when we have to meet our heavy
war expenditure; and we have a big market
which foreign' capital and labor are now
supplying. A few months ago the Tas-
manian Government was prepared to open
up comparatively small and poor shale
deposits on the island under an agreement
with the C jmmonwealth Government, which
is the lr gest individual consumer of fuel
oil in A itralia. That scheme lapsed because
the Sr ck’s Leg. Council was afraid to face
the ' rpital outlay. N. S. Wales can do
better; and the Government, having a pro-
blem of employing its people ahead of it,
ought to lose no time in seeing whether it
cannot find a way of doing this better thing.


Ryan Talks About Prices.
Blowing off tropical atmosphere at' Sydney
Town Hall last week about Conscription,
Bananaland Premier Ryan started arguing
about the efficiency of Labor Governments and
“quoted the figures of Statistician Knibbs
showing that the cost of living was less in
Bananaland than in any other State.” As
everyone in the audience had left Ivnibbs's
figures at home. Ryan had the calculations
to himself; and all hands burst into frantic
applause at the finish. Of course the “effici-
ency” of any Government is good to hear
about. So The Bulletin, thirsting after
joy, turns to the arithmetic of Knibbs. This
sets out the cost of goods and shelter at vari-
ous periods and discloses that what could be
acquired for £1 in 1911 could be bought in
the cities named during 1916 for the follow-
ing money:—•
Sydney .. .. 275. lOd.
Melbourne .. 265. 2d.
Adelaide .. .. 255. Bd.
Perth .. .. 255. 4d.
Hobart .. .. 255. 7d.
Brisbane .. .. 235. 9d.
All of which would at least seem to be a
useful story if Ryan had been getting his
■ efficiency to work over that period. He
might then claim that the Labor Govern-
ment in Sydney was more inefficient than
the Peacock outfit in Victoria, and that his
own efficiency in relation to the efficiency of
J. Scaddan had been as ss. 4d. is to 3s. 9d.
But even that dubious victory is forbidden
him. Ryan has only been in charge of the
cost of living and Imperial meat and im-
ported beetle-catchers since 1915, and the
story told by Knibbs of what has taken
place during the period of Ryan’s efficiency
is this: —
1914. 1916. Rise.
Sydney . . 245. Id. 275. lOd. 3s. 9d.
Melbourne . . 225. Id. 265. 2d. 4s. Id.
Adelaide . . 225. lOd. 255. Bd. 2s. lOd.
Perth . . 225. lOd. 255. 4d. 2s. 6d.
Hobart . . 21s. lOd. 255. 7d. 3s. 9d.
Brisbane .. 19s. lid. 235. 9d. 3s. lOd.
Thus under Ryan’s very efficient manage-
ment Knibbs has discovered a bigger rise
in the Bananaland figures than in those for
any other State except Victoria, which had
experienced a very horrible drought. Knibbs
finds also that the Bananaland figures have
the advantage of rent being lower in Bris-
bane than in any other of the cities. Ryan
ought to talk about something else. The
fact that in the two years before he came
into office there was a move upwards of
only 4d. and that since he has been there
the" advance is 3s. lOd. is hardly a matter to
cackle about.
«
Germany’s Smash in China.
“The Pariah’s” story of the Hun and the
Chow
It was not until 1861 that Germany, succeeded in
scouring a commercial treaty with China similar to
those concluded long before by Britain, France and
Russia. An amplification of this treaty, in 1880,
gave the Teuton advantages over his rivals; but he
was handicapped in trade by having no jumping-off
place of his very own. He proceeded to get one.
In 1897 the chance he was looking for came, when
two of his missionaries were murdered in Shantung.
The demands then served on China were more degrad-
ing and grasping than those which Austria made on
Servia in 1914, but the unhappy Manchu Court had to
agree to them all. Among them was the cession of
Kiauchau. What German officialdom thought of
Kiauchau can easily be gauged by a translation of
a report made by Lieut-colonel Wagner in 1898:
“No portion of the Chinese Empire can be so easily
acquired by an enemy as the Shantung Peninsula. Its
recapture, however, would be most difficult, while
whoever held it could make use of it for a further
advance. .. .No invasion of the country could be
attempted without the capture of Kiauchau.” The
Colonel also pointed out to his hungry countrymen
that the complete line of hills 400 to 600 feet high
and the narrow entrance “make a fortified Kiauchau
impossible of capture, and at the same time the
port mal;cs the positions of Port Arthur (.Jap) and
]Vei-hai-wei (British) precarious.”
Having thus “captured” Kiauchau, Germany began
a commercial war that was compounded of honest
and dishonest thoroughness. She encouraged by rich
prizes the study of Oriental conditions and languages,
and successful students were given posts at good
salaries in commercial houses in the “East.” Of the
“slim” tactics adopted, perhaps the most efficacious
were worked through the Imperial Customs. . This
service is of a peculiar texture, being carried on by,
and for, the benefit of European nations, which have
various claims on China. The - staff is polyglot, and
is scattered to the furthest limits of the Empire.
The German tidewaiters used every means to delay
in transit goods dispatched from British houses, thus
putting the British merchant under a serious disabil-
ity. Moreover, where railways existed the German
was again in evidence. His agents played upon the
superstitious natives of the districts served by Brit-
ish lines, with the result that exasperating delays,
etc., hampered operations.
- One way and another it is not therefore to be
wondered at that, in 15 years, from 1897 on-
wards, German trade increased enormously in volume,
while British business diminished. Not only in the
North was this so, but in the Middle and South as
well, though British influence predominates there.
Now the conservative Englishman gets a fresh start;
and if he springs off the mark and makes the pace a
welter, the good old days of “the merchant princes
of Canton” may return. But on present appearances
he will do nothing of the kind.
♦
The Eternal Prayer of Fat—“O Lord,
Let Me Shirk.”
At a meeting of the Associated Chambers
of Commerce at Adelaide last week it was
moved by Braddon, of Sydney :
That the proposed levy on wealth is subversive to
the well-recognised principles of equitable taxation.
Thereupon Brother Kerr, of Melbourne; —
The proposed levy is an insidious attack upon the
sacred security of capital. It is dangerous to let the
suggestion go forth that capital is insecure in Aus-
tralia.
“The sacred secuiyty of capital” ; the “sacred
security” of Kerr’s capital; the “sacred
security of the money-bags of every land-
shark and boodler and profiteer and interest-
monger on the continent—and Australia
heard this shocking proposition at the very
hour when her sons were fighting their way
into Bapaume, and while in agonised
Europe the security of human life was less
than that of a weed! There is a War Pre-
cautions Act in force in Australia, and it
has at times been used bowellessly against
obscure individuals and publications to meet
the use of language allegedly prejudicial to
recruiting. Yet in no .case that this papei
has heard of was the language so open to a
just censure as this. Where in _ the name
of the everlasting pawnshop is capital
“secure” in the sense of being kept on de-
posit underneath an altar which it . Avould
be impious to touch? The possession of
capital rests entirely upon, social consent.
Everywhere it is .called on to meet such
requirements of society as the wisdom or
lunacy of the State decides. To claim a
sacredness for capital is almost blas-
phemous. To give it out to the world that
capital is profane in Australia and sacred
everywhere else is almost criminal. Whether
the wealth levy was framed on lines that
were socially prudent is another thing. But
on general principles such a levy is indis-
putably legitimate. There were details of
it that The Bulletin objected to and will
continue to oppose. But that was not
because capital is sacred; it was because a
fair deal is.
Patriotism —and Other Things.
War-born industries don’t stop at the mak-
ing of businesses for Repatriation Commit-
tees to buy. There is another very flour-
ishing one in the founding of patriotic
leagues. Their objects, when not for the
elucidation of the obvious, are generally for
the augmentation of the superfluous, like
National Federations and Win-the-War Min-
istries. They are generally run by a sole
founder or an only-official organiser, and
the foundation-stone and the king-pin of all
of them is an annual subscription. Some
issue certificates of patriotism or British-
ness ; some “reject” badges or “relation”
buttons; some, the more Machiavellian, only
issue receipts for the subscriptions. At the,
start these affairs asked only., a shilling
entrance fee, a lot of faith and a rew prayers
for Allied victory ; but they are now grow-
ing up and reaching out with all the busi-
ness method of a new Yankee religion. The
latest asks a five-shiUings-a-month sub. and
proposes to issue “white lists” of its “oatri-
otic” subscribers. Now, these leagues and
such, whatever may sometimes be the high
motive of the founders, are nothing but
genteel blackmail. They practically say to
traders and others: “Be a patriot or we’ll
black-list you—a guinea, please.” They
serve no useful purpose; on the other hand
they deflect a lot of money from the genuine
amelioration funds. For sane people to sign
fool-declarations of patriotism is on a par
with expecting a decent woman to join a
Virtue League, and to go about Lagged with
a button inscribed: “No sir; I will NOT!”
But there’s the subscription—always the
subscription. That often smells a little.
(How deadly humorous it would be if the
cash went into the German secret-service
fund, or for the provision of gramophones
for the internment camps!) Apparently
until we tax directly to liquidate all
national obligations to the poor, the sick,
the needy, th(‘ feckless and the irreclaim-
able. we will have to do circus tricks to
raise money; but at least let us reduce
the societies for promoting circus tricks to
a minimum. And let us know a bit more
about the founders before they are allowed
to roam promiscuously through the country
with no better imprimatur than a receipt
block and a plausible story. Is any balance-
sheet ever issued in connection with this
great (and no doubt lucrative) business of
propping up the Empire? The woman with
the tale of a hypothetical husband and 12
kids works with the shadow of the vag. ever
hanging over her. A sick empire seems to
need no certificate at all.
When Prices Dropped.
A while ago a youth came into a bit of
property. It wanted clearing and develop-
ing, so he borrowed money to put up the
fences, more money to get it grubbed,
ploughed and graded, and still more money
to put up stables and sheds and buy imple-
ments. He saw that borrowing was easy,
so he eased off work and did not produce
enough to meet his interest bill and pay his
way ; and whenever he wanted a new plough
or a more modern cultivator he borrowed
additional money to get it. His overdraft was
fairly solid —£200, or it may have been
£200,000,000 —when a cantankerous neighbor
drove some bullocks through his fences,
devastated his crops and threatened to blot
him out altogether. The repairing of the
fences and the subsequent law cases meant
more borrowing, lashings of it; and though
he beat his opponent in the end that tricky
scoundrel went insolvent and the youth was
saddled with monumental bills of costs and
other dead-horses, so that he had to drag
between £2O and £3O a year—or it may have
been 20 or 30 millions—out of his little
property before he could get a loaf of bread
for himself. .He buckled down then to
solid graft, but a few years later there was
a spell of such prolific production by his
trade competitors that prices of wheat, but-
ter, vegetables, etc., fell 50 per cent, and he
had to bog in something tremendous, so that
even his cherished 8-hour day and minimum-
wage principles went smash. Just about
this time it dawned on him that the borrow-
ing business wasn’t what it was cracked up
to be, and if he could have met the men who
cracked it up he would probably have slain
them.
The Shirkers.
In 1914 Australia elected a Parliament to
which it returned a large majority of mem-
bers pledged individually, their party
organisations and through the leaders they
then were yelping for, to make reform of the
tariff one of t-lieir first undertakings. That
Parliament fell to pieces last week. It had
done nothing with the tariff; and in some
death-bod speeches it was made very clear
that there never was any honest intention
to redeem the pledge the public had been
doped with. Even those members who may
have been originally willing to make good
had to confess their own miserable weakness.
Because it suited the party to leave this sub-
ject alone —because the Cabinet was delud-
ing the public with words of promise in
w hich every syllable was false —these weak-
lings sat dumb. Perhaps they can find some
specious excuse for themselves that their
constituencies will swallow. This paper
does not know anything about that. What it
does know is that these people ought to be
ashamed of themselves —that the result of
their scandalous shirk has been to gravely
jeopardise the financial and industrial stabil-
ity of their country, and that if the next
Federal Parliament is comnosed of the same
material the Commonwealth will be found
disporting itself in the waves of disaster. All
the fumbling about with price-fixing and
wheat-pools and metal-exchanges and sugar
bargains and the prohibition of hide exports
has been mere quackery. While this has
been going on the nation has been bleeding
to death under an avalanche of imports
which in times of peace would have been of
calamitous dimensions, and when super-
iLoposed upon the financial strain of war
can only be accounted for on the basis of
government being in the hanus of madmen.
To say that interference with the tariff was
impossible because it would create trouble
with our Allies is too thin. None of our
Allies are fat-headed enough to squander
their wealth and credit in the way Aus-
tralia has been doing and is continuing fo
do to-day. The relationship between this
country and other peoples does not demand
that the Commonwealth should fling away
millions a year in purchasing goods the
country cannot pay for. No other country
does what Australia is doing, nor expects
Australia to do it. Though the trend of
prices for Australian products has been up-
ward since 1910, the imports to the country
have cost about £36,000-,000 in excess of
what the exports realised. Who is it de-
mands that these leaps and bounds towards
bankruptcy should continue? To say that
our Allies want it is to insult them. The
solemn truth is that nobody wants it con-
tinued except the tricksters and shirkers
who have been encouraging the performance
for their own small temporary gain.
[S. H. Prior, F. ,T. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George-street, Sydney.,]
♦
Australian war-correspondent Bean has
been at his politics again. The other day,
just on the eve of the taking of Bapaume, he
made some earnest remarks about the game-
ness of the Australian troops, “doing Aus-
tralia’s work in the old Australian way,”
with a few . details of attacks, counter-
attacks, shell-and-mortar work and assorted
fighting up and down the countryside. Then
suddenly he burst into tears and finished off
with this (printed by the Argus in bold-
faced type) :
The pitiful part of it is that, while half of Aus-
tralia is doing its work magnificently at the Front,
all they can see across the seas is the other half of
Australia running round distractedly wondering
which leader to follow.
But that’s where Bean goes wrong. “The
other half” of Australia isn’t running round
distractedly wondering which leader to fol-
low. “The other half” is writing paragraphs
and growing wheat and digging copper and
spuds and knitting socks and Balaclavas and
shearing sheep and making butter and jam
and going to picnics. But a little man
named Hughes is rushing round distractedly
telling all these people that if they don’t
knock off work to vote for him they won’t
win the war. If Bean can’t see what is
happening in France better than he sees
what is happening in Australia he’d better
come home.
[S. 11. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John Barr, 214
George Street, Sydney.]
At last week’s struggle for seats in Ma
State’s Assembly Labor was handed what it
expected, and what later on it is going to
feel very much better for getting. By put-
ting the party into opposition and by purg-
ing Parliament, the electors can look back
on a good day’s work. Labor was hungry
for correction. The party that threw into
place and power the men responsible for
the shocking administrative jobbery of the
last six years; that introduced the commu-
nity to Norton Griffiths and “lost money” ;
that tolerated a financial jag of almost in-
credible recklessness and sought to sustain
itself in office by throttling every decent
principle associated with Labor’s birth as
an organised political force—such a party
had no claim to handle the trust it had so
grossly betrayed. The objection that the
other Party is quite as frowsy-looking could
not meet the disinclination of the electors
to swallow the P.L.L. Had Holman gone
to the electors as a Labor man prior to the
happenings associated with the Referendum,
Labor would have been defeated just as it
was on Saturday ; and in this circumstance
alone the P.L.L. ought to be able to detect
several reasons for examining .itself from top
to bottom. While it is making this examina-
tion it may, as a critic of public policy,
again be of great service to the State, after
a period of administrative activity in which
if did the State very great injury.
Sydney Telegraph broke out into an im-
passioned oration on the morning of the
N. S. Wales State elections. It seemed to
lie in a condition of panic and spoke in terms
of remonstrance concerning citizens who
turned themselves into “unfranchised serfs”
and addressed pointed remarks to individuals
burdened with “the natural instinct of a
slave.” The worst of it, groaned the Tele-
graph, was that most of the mean-spirited
excuses for shirking a citizen’s duty were
sure to be on the National side. All of
which sounded strangely at variance with the
yarn put forward by the Telegraph several
times a day for several weeks past that
Liberalism represented the civic virtues of
the community and that around its standard
stood the accumulated social patriotism of a
people outraged by juntas and firebrands!
Yet if during the next month or two someone
proposes to make voting compulsory-—to
actually disfranchise the vote-shirker who
disfranchises himself —the Telegraph can
be depended on to publicly explode with
wrath, unless it is prepared to announce
that its previous 974 explosions were un-
called for. It is obvious enough, however,
that if a man or woman has the instincts of
a slave or prefers to be a serf, such person
is entitled to reformative treatment. People
with “the instincts of slaves” have no moral
right to a vote. They are a peril. If the
Telegraph has reason to suppose that the
Lib. constituencies are infested with them,
its obvious duty is to lead a crusade for
purging the rolls of such political wasters.
But what is the matter, anyhow? Can it
be that vast numbers of Libs, are unable to
get the taste of the Wade-Holm an deal out
of their mouths? If so, what sort of grim-
aces are there going to be when they are
asked to swallow Hughes and the deals he
has made?
“A.M.C.”: I enlisted to fight because my
country asked me to. But when I was safely
in camp I was summarily transferred to tlie
A.M.C., and here I am swearing in Sinai
with scores of other Red Crossers who only
want to be allowed to join a combatant
unit. For 12 months now we’ve been trying
to transfer, but we are politely blocked at
every turn by O.C.’s of units and the medi-
cal head serang. Their favorite excuse is lack
of A.M.C. personnel; but this is a mere suu-
terfuge. reinforcements being plentiful and
casualties small. Again, take the case of
an N.C.0., who to enable him to transfer
agrees to forfeit his rank; his application is
returned from the. medical chief with the
reply that it will be approved only on con-
dition that the applicant can improve his
present status. This on the face of it is
absurd and impossible. It is well known
that there is no promotion in the A.M.C.
beyond non-commissioned rank. Hence appli-
cations from these N.C.O.’s should receive
special consideration. It is only natural
that ambitious men should be eager to
transfer to units where promotion is to be
had.' Regarding promotion generally, why
does not Australia adopt the Maoriland sys-
tem, whereby N.C.O.’s may be sent back
from the Fronts to be trained as officers, to
return with new units or reinforcements?
Men who have had over two years’ active
service are'surely more entitled to a commis-
sion than men without experience who have
taken so long a time to hear their country
call!
T. J. McMahon writes; —
Of all the moral experiments ever tried by a
Government, the keeping of hotels as in the Northern
Territory is the most woeful failure. The object was
to stem the excessive drinking for which the Terri-
tory became notable, or, at least, for which Darwin
did; <but a whole dictionary of adjectives cannot
adequately describe the orgies which are still to
be seen in that town on far too many occasions.
The Commonwealth Government may be making
money out of its gropshops, but, if so, it is at the
expense of the nation’s health.
The leading house, though not the most popular,
is as cheerless as a catacomb. It is run on lines
that make a Chinese puzzle child’s play by compari-
son. At 10s. a day it is just about the limit for
what it does not supply. You get no morning tea,
no boots blacked, no shaving water brought; the staff
occupies the coolest and best rooms, and if you
want a square feed you go to the Dago’s in China-
town. When I was there fresh milk nourished the
staff whilst the boarders perished on tinned cow-
juice. You never knew when the bar would be
open or when it would be shut, and you paid dearly
for your thirst. The first thing the Government
did when going into this business was to raise the
tariff 100 per cent.
Another pub is a structure of galvanised-iron, so
dirty and shabby that no Licensing Board in a
southern State would give it a license. The roof is
just about 2 ft. away from the drinkers’ heads in
the bar, and the room is like a fiery furnace, no
doubt a good aid to persistent drinking, which is
one way of getting back the purchase money.
Vestey’s pay-day once a fortnight gives the cos-
mopolitan population of Darwin a grand chance for
letting itself go. The maddened foreigners, contending
with the few noisy-Britishers, make a show unparal-
leled in the Commonwealth. Police interference is para-
lysed by strange laws that protect hotel managers,
and tolerate drunks who sleep peacefully in the
weeds of the big vacant allotments in the heart of the
town. Occasionally a very obstreperous drunk is run
in, which leaves the Government of Australia in
the unenviable position of encouraging the trans-
gression and then punishing the transgressor—coin-
pound interest on its hotel expenditure.
These hotels “must pay” is the instruction, and
run on departmental lines per favor of union rules
and regulations they constitute about as contemptible
a venture as any Government might stoop to.
' »
If these Win-the-War politicians were not
far more anxious about winning their seats
they would drop the untruth that the Labor
party is opposed to recruiting, and would
put the War Precautions Act in operation
against these people. Because of the con-
stant reiteration of the lie there must be
hundreds of young Labor sympathisers who
begin to believe it; and if to make Labor
men believe that they can’t both enlist and
be loyal to the Labor party isn’t prejudicial
to recruiting, nothing is.
One of the titbits that fell into the maw of
the Commonwealth soon after it was estab-
lished was silver and copper coinage: previ-
ously Britain had allowed us to coin gold, on
which there is no profit, but kept for herself
the minting of silver and bronze “tokens’'
(the Royal Mint refuses to even think of
these things as “coins”). During last finan-
cial year the Commonwealth struck off silver
of a circulation value of £554.300 and
£15,500 worth of “browns” ; and as the cost
of the raw material in the one case was
£207,002, and in the other £3137, the gross
profit on the silver was 160 and oil the
bronze 320 p.c.. It looks good; but the
profit on paper-money is a lot more than
that. And, as Billjim has found—to his
surprise mostly—our silver and bronze are
not currency a bit further than our paper.
“Bile Bowyang” : I see that theorists are
suggesting that a million natives be brought
from Bull’s black colonies. This sort of non-
sense makes practical men tired. The origi-
nators of the idea advertise the past fighting
record of the Zulu and others; but they
forget that these races fought their best
battles on their own ground and under sim-
ple Stone Age conditions. The bit we got
even at Gallipoli made the best Indians curl
up. I have lived amongst and fought beside
colored troops recruited since the commence-
ment of the war, and in my opinion, what
with the cost of their transportation, train-
ing and upkeep (which last is greater than
the cost* of European troops), the employ-
ment of colored men on a big scale would be
a waste of the Empire's money. Although
the majority are of good physique, they
quickly succumb to the variations of tem-
perature experienced in France. In times of
peace recruits for the regular colored regi-
ments are enlisted for a period of 12 years, of
which it takes five to make them efficient
soldiers. We can’t spare five years to get
men ready for this war.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co.. Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
|3rand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE: STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
fire & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
ONE LATHERING ONLY.
So keen is the blade and so finely tempered is
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
that it remains keen for an indefinite period. Requires
but little stropping, and one lathering of the face is
usually sufficient. Shaves in a quarter the usual time.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of cha r o- e .
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/- , t
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY;
Established over SO years.
It’s a Masterpiece-
The“PLUM
Razor.
»
Where is Ivan Going.to be Found?
It had been all carefully figured out that
“decisive” events were to take place during
this European summer on the Western front.
They may. But the uproar in Russia is
not passing unnoticed at Potsdam, and, unless
the cable messages of a day or two ago were
more unreliable than usual, it seems quite
likely that something with a close resemblance
to decisiveness may happen in the vicinity of
the Bear before it occurs anywhere else.
Germans are reported to be assembling in
large numbers on the Dvinsk-Riga sector with
hostile intent, their object being to rush
through in the direction of Petrograd.
General Alexieff has reported that “the
position is serious.” If the Germans suc-
ceed in reaching the Russian capital it will,
of course, be announced that the incident is
of no importance, whereas if they fail the
world will hear that their dreams have again
been shattered. This will be in strict accord-
ance with our apparently settled policy of fool-
ing ourselves. Exactly what a German victory
opening the path to Petrograd would mean
in a military sense may be doubtful, but it
can be taken as highly probable that such an
incident would not lead to great rejoicing
anywhere outside the Fatherland. In the
judgment, then, of this paper the events of
the next month or two on the Eastern front
are going to be more important than the
occurrences in the West. The significance
of the Russian revolution can still hardly
be guessed at. If the result is to
sweep the “dark forces” into oblivion
and strengthen the national resolution
relating to the war, the defeat of Germany
is certain. If the opposite is the case—and
some very ominous news is being published—
the end of the war will be very different
from what the cocksure prophet of yesterday
was talking about. An entirely new factor
has been introduced into the disturbance.
Meanwhile Uncle Sam is still on the verge,
Italy is alleged to be expecting a big push,
and the retirement of Von Hindenberg on
the Somme Front had not, up to the begin-
ning of the week, been explained by the dis-
covery of where he had settled down. But
the ground there will be drying up now, and
as events will move more quickly, the next
phase of horror may arrive before the
hot-cross buns. Yet if the war is going to
reach the knock-out stage this year, the con-
centrated bash will have to be on a scale so
prodigious that it may scare the entire popu-
lation out of Hades.
D. E. Dicker. M.L.A., didn’t turn up at the
first two meetings of the Speck’s Public
Works Committee after the police-court case
against him for disloyal utterances. When
he did arrive it was tactfully suggested that
perhaps he would rather not sit in future.
But Dicker is not a sensitive person and he
lost no time in explaining that, if there was
going to be any resigning, somebody else
would have to do it. The rest of the picnic,
therefore, had to choose between carrying on
business as usual and “chucking” a job
which brings in pretty fair dividends with-
out causing anyone to sweat his collar limp.
At length someone made the interesting dis-
covery that there is nothing in the Act to
make the Committee sit at all if it doesn’t
want to, so proceedings were indefinitely
adjourned on the off-chance that Parliament
will do something at the beginning of next
session to bump Dicker from the pleasant
perch.
An obscure Heidelberg (Vic.) councillor
named May is reaching out for Frank
Anstey’s seat in the Reps. Membrey, who
represents the wit, beauty and intellect of
Northcote in the House of Peacock, was
asked to head the charge on Anstey’s en-
trenchements, but after looking round said
there was nothing doing. When an old poli-
tical warrior like Membrey shies at the pros-
pect of unseating Anstey, it is reasonable to
assume that May won’t be a merry month
for its namesake.
[Edmund Fisher, 369 Collins Street, Melbourne.]
“Edo”: Westralian Labor bosses have
stretched things so far that breaking-point
is near. This is a typical incident. The
manager of the Boulder Municipal electric-
light station with a view to economy dis-
placed a boy. Immediately two engine-
drivers stopped work because they had not
been consulted. To prevent a strike of
engine-drivers spreading all over Golden
Mile, perhaps the State, the two drivers and
the boy had to be reinstated, and a well-
intentioned manager had to eat coke—to
acknowledge, in fact, that he was not man-
ager. Nor is R. Hamilton of Great Boulder,
nor R. S. Black of the Kalgurli, nor ,T.
Darbyshire of the trans-Australian railway
line in W.A. These men and others like
them can only point out 'what work is to be
done. As to how and when and at what
price it shall be done they have no sav
worth mentioning. That is all done by the
real bosses, whose address is c/o the Trades
Hall.
[For any unsigned Plain English paragraphs
which require a signature under the Electoral Act,
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and John B.?rr, 214
George Street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pink Lady”
Palace “Very Good Eddie”
Tivoli Mel ntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Repertory “Jinker”
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Smart Set
White City Various Shows
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Canary Cottage”
Royal “Fair and Warmer”
Princess’s Gonsalez Opera Co.
King’s “Turn to the Right”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium Fisk Jubilee Singers
Majestic “Gloria’s Romance”
Melba ~ Moving Pictures
Britannia Triangle Plays
“Canary Cottage,” which lasted hours
at Melbourne Majesty’s on Saturday, is a
feast of color and a frisk of folly wherein
the dressmaker reigns supreme. The musical
numbers come and go, accompanied by a
chorus, and every time the chorus comes it
brings a change of costume with it. But never
an item leaves a haunting memory behind.
The music is factory-made and the material is
much of a pleasant sameness. Some of it
will probably be cut out before these remarks
art published, and judicious reduction will
improve the effect.
* * * •
The festive proceedings hang upon a thin
line of narrative, into which some common-
place threads of human character are woven.
A young man named Jerry has a set formula
for making love, in prose or verse, to all
the girls who come within the gleam of his
front teeth, and who “never knew what Love
could do till first their lips met his.” Of
three girls in particular Dorothy Brunton
is Jerry’s very best and least unreasonable,
whereas the passion of Connie Ediss burns
like a devouring flame until her lawful hus-
band (Frith) becomes duly qualified to blow
it out. Connie’s liege lord has meanwhile
been an incidental dipso., suffering from
visible and unseen jim-jams. A number of
infant gnomes dog his footsteps in full view
or the audience, but the pink spiders and
things are visible only to his bleary mind’s
eye. Jerry’s other girl is a flirtatious flapper
who has a grim mommer (Marie Eaton) in
attendance. The chorus maids and men have
no connection with the story except as sup-
ports. Without them it would fall as flat as
a table shorn of its legs.
The brightest lines are about equally
divided between the Brunton and Ediss
ladies. Dorothy, charmingly humorous as
usual, addresses some of her most pointed
remarks to Maude Fane, who is sweet and
tuneful as the flapper. Connie Ediss makes
a broad success of the abundant matron
with the devouring fondness for Jerry, so
her lack of adequate singing power is a
minor consideration. Frith has the crudest
of comedy notions concerning the husband
who happens around in pyjamas and a joyful
smile, as though jim-jams were a joke; and
Fisher and Maguire are minor unavailing
exponents of a grotesque face and an Irish
accent respectively. William Greene is the
young man with the kiss that makes hungry
where it most doth satisfy ; but although his
style is brisk and unaffected, apd his sing-
ing is passable, lie hardly accounts for the
sustained adoration of girls who are always
finding him out. A Canary and Cat dance,
by Madge Elliott and Jack Hooker, presents
an exceptional pussy who dies of remorse
after biting the bird. Such cases are rare
iu domestic life.
* H-- * H=
The skimpy little play that by the aid of
prolonged intervals is made to occupy the
whole of a short evening at Sydney Criterion
looks like reaching the flabby heart of the
female readers of the insipid sort of imported
fiction upon which it is founded. “Daddy
Long Legs” never strays for one instant from
the comfortable realms of stage convention.
Everything happens just as the audience
expects it to happen, except that it takes
such a long time to happen. The adopted
waif and the good, kind bachelor millionaire
with the sugary-sweet smile remind one of
the early days of the movies. Women who
haven’t more important to weep
over in these war times will enjoy the luxury
of an innocuous weep and a red nose in the
intervals between the intervals. The un-
mentioned author fails, however, to make the
title clear. Apparently Judy sees from a
window the shadow of the benevolent million-
aire so thrown upon a wall that the legs are
absurdly elongated : but all the audience sees
is a girl gazing out of a window. Surely it
would have been within the power of the
stage-manager to present this effect, import-
ant for the understanding of the story, to
the view of the audience? However, as long
as Kathlene MacDonell is on the stage noth-
ing else really matters.
When the horses had retired into the
wings and the musical elephant had played
himself to sleep on a mouth-organ tucked in
the extreme end of his trunk, the attendants
took up the matting on the floor of the ring
at Wirths’ New Hippodrome and laid a
silver trident in the centre. Then the orches-
tra away up in a box started to play “A
Hundred Fathoms Deep,’ 5 and the assembled
Sydneyites saw the great circular platform
sink, a couple of inches inside its concrete
barrier. There was a sound as if a giant
100 feet high had sucked in his breath, and
water gushed up all round the rim of the
sinking platform and met in a wave in the
centre. At the same time more water
gushed through hundreds of unguessed holes
in the sinking floor and soon there was a
great circular swimming pool, with waves
where horses had galloped and elephants
had posed. A clown fished from a hastily-
rigged spring-board and caught a live fox-
terrier. Then, of course, he fell in. From
now on all Wirths’ clowns will have to be
marine comedians. When the glistening
floor of the ring rose again and the water
drained away—all done in a couple of min-
utes—Neptune was standing on it. When he
trumpeted, eight tailless mermaids in black
TENOR PHILIP WILPON, of the N.P.W.
state Consercatorium, singing of the
weather and the birds.
neek-to-toe costumes and red caps appeared
and sank with him. Later they reappeared
in an undrowned condition and engaged in
fancy diving with “Professors” Cavill and
Scott. The latter dived twice from a plat-
form under the roof and for the first trip
Cavill told him in a loud voice that he hoped
God would be with him. Scott apparently
made the second trip unaccompanied.
* * * *
Bailey’s posing dogs and horses make an
artistic and well-lighted turn on the big stage
and the marble-white steed is excused for mov-
ing his ears. A horse must do that while his
brain works. The astonishing Riogoku troupe
of Jap acrobats, who throw one another about
with their feet, again appear; also Maximo,
the Wire Drunk, who sticks to the swaying
line as though he were a Morse message.
The seals with the educated noses did not
feel very spry on the opening night; but
Lindo’s team of young lions were fill there,
and the trainer with the whip was a figure
in a whirling ring of yellow when the lum-
bering comedy bear had made his exit and
the dangerous family did its final gallop.
The spotlight fell softly on the blushing-
elephant’s cheek and the red-coated “society
circus” turn was a great success—more par-
ticularly when one of the ladies making a
flying leap at a cantering horse landed in
the lap of a bronzed front-seater from the
bush. Some of the same front-row got well-
splashed when the engineers behind worked
their remarkable transformation and turned
the ring into a lake. A water-clown in search
of laughs kicks up the spray like a turning
liner. That sinking ring has cost the Wirths
a lot of money and trouble, but it is good
value. The only pity is that it can’t be
taken on tour.
Presently “The Pink Lady” will flash
round the corner from Sydney Majesty’s to
the Royal,, and so make way for the J.C.W.
panto. But she will be found out at Her
Majesty’s for a little while longer.
Seven weeks gone and “Very Good Eddie”
is still raking in the coin for the Taits at
Sydney Palace. The days of the cheerful
show are long in the land.
Business is brisk again at Sydney Tivoli
and the 1917 Follies are the responsible
parties. The new menu has 27 cream-puff
items on it, and the members of the co. who
are not engaged at the moment are away
changing their costumes. There are plenty
of striking and beautifully-eceentric dreams
in this year’s well-mounted show, and it is
plain that the revue girl is becoming heavily
wired. Sometimes she resembles an electric-
light installation ; at other moments she is an
imitation of an “art” lampshade. However,
they all work well and briskly together, and
are mixing more light burlesque with their
hurried songandance. Vera Pearce seems
to have lost none of her dash but a little of
her hard brilliancy. The black countenance
and quiet drawl of Walter Weems (gone
back to the States) are missed; but com-
edians Cannot, Welch and Rego manage to
get along without their old team-mate.
It's the scratch of the wolf at the box-
office that depresses the grittiest of mum-
mers ; and as the animal has not been seen
in the vicinity of the Darlinghurst house
nobody in the Smart Set is downhearted.
The Garden lias an attractiveness that is dis-
tinct ; the co.’s singing—particularly in the
concerted melodies —heals the ear after the
raucous politician has offended it, and the
fun-making is clean and not overdone. Per-
haps this week’s piogramme is the best that
the co. has offered in Sydney.
* * * *
The White City (Sydney) is preparing
for a big Eas y r week, when the carnival
managers exp ct to make the Wayback
family put another “blister” on the selection
and have the splash of their lives. Mean-
while Dentine is doing his “death ride”
nightly and winning by a head.
sis * s;s He
Sydney films this week: —
Lyceum : A 3000 ft. film-trip through Japan, the first
of the Dorsey “Mystic Orient” series; ami “The Iced
Bullet,” a. first-class Triangle • comedy-drama which
includes some illuminating glimpses of the methods
of movie production.
Crystal Palace; “His Sweetheart,” a true-to-life
tragedy, splendidly acted by George Beban and Sarah
Kerran, of a struggling Italian family in the cellars
of New York.
* He He He
The ancient story of Ernani was narrated
with full musical embellishments by the
Gonsalez Co. at Melbourne. Princess’s on
Saturday. “Ernani” is one of Giuseppe
Verdi’s earliest works, and reveals his
juvenile enthusiasm for melodiously decorat-
ing the primitive emotions. The tenor and
baritone lovers of Elvira are two of the
sweetest products of Giuseppe’s glucose fac-
tory. Even Elvira’s malignant old uncle
delivers threats like packets of confectionery,
and the chorus hardly mentions a dagger or
a dungeon without wrapping the information
in jam. Considering the saccharinity of
the music, therefore, none of the three lovers
should be otherwise than dulcet in their testi-
monies of affection. Yet Dagradi, who sang
the name part on Saturday, passed out the
marmalade like a food dictator, and was
three inches of Fahrenheit below the
requisite warmth. In a manner of
speaking, he seemed too green to burn.
He should have listened carefully to
Scamuzzi (Don Carlos), whose utterance
was choked with beautifully-phrased endear-
ments. Elvira’s coldness to such a tender
suppliant was only permissible on the ground
that she had no ear for music. Scamuzzi
sang throughout with fine fervor and ren-
dered the solo parts of the third-act finale
in a fashion that caused an unusual dis-
turbance. Cacialli appeared as Elvira’s
ruthless uncle, Don Gomez de Siha, who has
matrimonial designs on his niece. He plots
with the chorus against his rival, Don Carlos,
in Charlemagne’s tomb, and tricks Ernani
into suicide in a most guileful manner. De
Siha’s wickedness was only faintly felt, how-
ever, for Cacialli’s comfortable bass and
casual style dissembled much of the Don’s
malevolence. Cacialli is much too large and
contented for the exposition of operatic
diabolism. His villains are mixtures of suet
and somnolence who are almost too tired to
show their teeth. Miss de Revers was fre-
quently a scream as Elvira, and ransacked
her previous impersonations, as it were, to
provide a dramatic outfit for the character.
The result was the usual convulsed spectacle
all the familiar gestures gone through like
a calisthenic exercise. The chorus formed
itself into semi-circles as before, and the
male part of it sang with great abandon. The
orchestra was also artistically responsive to "
the eloquent baton of Giovanni Gonsalez.
To-night (Thursday) “Gioconda” will be
repeated, and “Lucia” and “Carmen” are on
the programmes for to-morrow and Saturday.


&
3 O Oiy
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
j
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
H
♦
Daniel Crawfords
Red Star WHISKY
“‘SSw £yfO **
&
-
m
si/
&
Peapes’ Outing Suits
for Easter and the Winter.
AVe quote one of many Outing styles appropriate to
the coming season —a warm-textured “No-A r este” suit
in Grey Donegal Tweed. For travel, lounge and
holiday wear it saves one’s best clothes, and gives a
smart appearance, whilst providing comfort and ease.
The coat has yoke, i-band and vent in back and
3- patch pockets ; trousers have side and hip pockets,
and permanent turn-up. _ |
•READY TO WEAR
AVe pay postage.
Please state height, chest and. waist measurements.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
The person who is led by popular talk and
press allusions to expect a flourish of
strumpets at Melbourne Royal continues to
be grievously disappointed. “Fair and
Warmer” is a farcical false-alarm wherein
all the innuendoes of feminine giddiness peter
out in harmless imbecilities. The demure
little wife of Jack Wheeler, who wants to be
compromised and consumes liquid rainbows
in a festive spirit, brings no blush to a Wes-
leyan cheek even when her deshabille is sug-
gestive of sultry weather. Likewise Mrs.
Billy Bartlett, who allows herself to be
caught in the embrace of the naughty Mr.
Evans, cheats the spectator of a prime Sas-
siety scandal. The spicy hopes that are
dashed by the two young wives are also
doomed to extinction by Tessie, the maid.
Tessie leads everyone to assume that the
head of the house is her victim ; but she only
amounts to a glad-eye display. Take it alto-
gether, “Fair and Warmer” ought to he sued
for breach of promise.
Something more than last week’s bill was
wanted at Melbourne Tivoli, and the
prayers of the audiences are already being
answered. Speaking of Saturday’s matinee,
when two of the advertised new arrivals
failed to arrive, The Bulletin would say
that the Takiness pair
of musical artists
fairly earned their
salary, whereas there
are others in the
vaudeville line of
business who ought
to be paid to go away.
Another competent re-
arrival is Clement
May, who gives
Dickens-character im-
personations and
knows how to stage
his turn. Malcolm
McEachern is vocalis-
ing with distinction
as before, and the
popular Bluett is delivering a parody-song
which partly atones for the inanity of his
other ditties. The arrival of Ada Reeve is
said to be imminent.
At Melbourne King’s the inordinate sweet-
ness of Mrs. Bascom’s nature continues to
glorify her peach preserves and purify her
human surroundings. Even Deacon .lillin-
ger, the hard-shell hypocrite of Peachville,
seems to Turn to the Right in the last act
under the prevailing influence of Mrs. Bas-
com’s goodness. The Deacon had known her
for some time before Muggs, Gilly and Joe
blew into the village, yet he remained wicked.
Apparently she was not a “carrier” of her
own virtues; but when she had imparted
reformation to the wandering crooks the
1 >eacon caught the prevailing epidemic and
became an angelic wowser, more or less. The
Taits’ farcical sentimental sermon threatens
to last over Easter. In the field of moral
endeavor no competitor can shake a stick at
"Turn to the Right.”
ITALIAN GRAND OPERA AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS'S.
“ ERNANI .”
Cacialli as Sica.
Dagradi as Ernani.
Pastor White continues to preside over the
harmonium at Melbourne Auditorium, and
his choir are still lifting > p their voices in
Darktown rejoicing. The Fisk Singers
change their programme once a week and
warble of many things. So far. however,
they have made no . reference to water-
melons or chickens, and that, thank de
Loard, am somethin’ to be grateful foah.
* * * *
Mae Marsh and Robert Harr on, who
were the hero and heroine in the modern
Amurkan section of “Intolerance,” lately
screened at Melbourne Royal, are facing one
another in “The Wharf Rat,” a Triangle
feature at Melbourne Majestic this week.
In the Triangle story, “The Missing Links,”
Harron is associated with Norma Talmadge,
the expressive little actress who was the
Mountain Girl in the Babylonian portion of
the Griffiths extravaganza. Next Saturday
the Majestic people promise another chapter
of “Gloria’s Romance,”- a much advertised
pictorial salad in which Billie Burke sup-
plies the dressing.
v •!* v v
“Avatar,” which Hoyt’s are unrolling in
Melbourne this week, comes from the Cines
Co., of Rome, and introduces theories about
soul-transmission in a picturesque and com-
plicated plot. The star of the film is a new
Italian screen-player, Amleto Novelli, while
a Polish heroine, Soava Gallone, is an almost
equally glittering constellation. Harold Lock-
wood and May Allison are the two big names
in the latest Metro fabrication, “PidgiD
Island.” The story deals with smuggling on
the St. Lawrence River, but the excitement
is never strenuous enough to keep Harold
and May from canoodling before the best of
the available backgrounds.
•** * *
The Williamson pantomime has had a
fortnight of heavy booking at the Adelaide
Royal. Stigant and Roxbury proved a
sound laugh-getting partnership, and Full-
brook got in some irrelevant but welcome
bits of “straight” acting. The ladies are
a good team, the kiddies delightful, and the
whole show merry. Manager Myers prom-
ises three weeks of Italian opera after
Easter. Teg and the Pup are just coming
into the little King’s, reopened in honor of
their visit. Into the programme at the
Four seconds on stage with a Grand Opera Prima Donna.
Majestic, very strong on the vocal side, the
Flemmings put variety by their clean athletic
work. Carrie Moore is most attractive
when serious, least so when she proceeds
on Daisy Jerome lines. The Strollers are
at the Tivoli. As of old, Sydney James
and Madeline - Rossiter are the two really
magnetic personalities; hut Desmond and
Gwen Lewis and Connie Milne all do .good
work. On the screen Billy Burke is at
West’s (also the eternal Chaplin), Betty
Nansen at Wondergraph, Clara K. Young
at the Pav.
Perhaps the most cantankerous vessel on
the Australian coast was the collier Yamba-
coona, whose demise was inquired into
recently by N. S. Wales Marine Court. She
used to ply in Tasmanian waters until she
was bought a few vears ago for the New-
castle-Sydney trade. Apparently disgusted
with the change, the ’Coona has bucked
against things ever since. On two occasions
she collided, nearly fatally, with vessels
much larger than herself; and 12 months
ago she flung herself right on to Big Ben,
witli Nobby’s Lighthouse staring at her in
astonishment. This was at the time put
down to a German being her skipper, but
the performance appears to have been just
cussedness, for a few weeks ago she ran
full butt in broad daylight upon fne Skillion,
the biggest and boldest headland between
Port Jackson and the Equator. She sank
like a stone and the Marine Court came to
the conclusion that she was no lady and
scratched her off its visiting list for good.
Just before leaving for the A.N.A. confer-
ence in the Mallee, chief-president Albert
Ostrom finished up his year’s service with
the association by joining the A.I.F. Ostrom
is from Echuca, where he runs a boot-store
and sits in the borough council.
The bulk result of a general election is
never to be trusted as an answer to any
specific question. Here and there an elec-
torate is bound to go its own way. For
example, in Gordoij, the seat long held by
N. S. Wales Liberal leader Wade, there
were three candidates —two front-rank law-
yers, Loxton and Bavin, and a third man
of the “good local member” type. Bavin
carried the “National” endorsement. But
in Gordon the woman vote is very strong ;
and the woman vote went very solidly for
Loxton because he is an uncompromising
six-o’clocker-for-all-time —or until he can
make it 5 o’clock most days and 1 o’clock
on Saturdays. Bavin would only go this far
—he would consent to ask the people after
the war whether they wanted six o’clock
pub-closing to continue. That lifted Bavin’s
pot on. As a woman put it frankly at one
of Loxton’s last metings: “I don’t under-
stand politics, but I do understand pubs, and
the man who satisfies me with regard to the
question I understand is going to have my
vote.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
THE WHOLE HOG.
[Foe The Bulletin.]
I wonder why they criticise
And vilify and ostracise
The gagger in the classic play.
I see no reason for dismay.
In fact, I wouldn’t care a jot
If someone gagged the blooming lot.
MAORILAND. LESLIE R. FREEMAN.
Off the road at last—Fred Duval, for
many years one of the best known visitors
to newspaper offices, hotels, railway stations
and wharves this side of the line. In the
long ago he rushed around most of the world
with circuses—went once with a big outfit
from N’York to Brazil and only three got
back, of whom Agratti, afterwards in Aus-
tralia with Chiarini, was one and Duval
another. Then he joined up with concert
cos. and marionettes. He first struck the
Commonwealth with the Soldene Opera Co.,
was subsequently with Dunning and the Cog-
liills, then became lessee of the Princess
Theatre at Brisbane, and spent nearly 10
years as advance man for Tom Pollard.
After the Pollards petered out he organised
an opera co. for George Stephenson, and
finally was hack with Pollard again in a
picture-show in Maoriland. His home had
been where he hung his hat since he was 10
years old. He finished at GB.
Thelma Raye, the red-haired English
actress who is sub-queen of the Tivoli Fol-
lies, married a whole jewellery business last
week. The bridegroom is Private Percy
Dawson, eldest son of a Sydney jeweller,
and when he goes to the Front presently his
wife will resume at the footlights. Hugh
Mclntosh acted as the generous father for
the occasion.
Peace has been declared in one war, at
any rate —that between the Adelaide amuse-
ment managers and the Advertiser. * It
has been waged all this year, ever since the
paper declined to join in the outcry against
an amusement tax. Some common-sense
influence at last got to work, and now the
’Tiser has'theatre ads. and the theatres no
longer screen appeals to the public to look
to the Register and Herald only.
“0.K.”: The recent conflict of picture
showmen was a short, sharp, decisive affair.
It started with a Note from the Associated
Theatres to the Co-operative Film Exchange,
threatening to withdraw their custom if the
Co-op. continued to supply films to Hoyt’s,
who, b.vjbe way, are large customers. The
idea, apparently, was to kill two birds with
one stone, for the Associated Theatres run
Film Exchanges of their own in competition
with the Co-operative Exchange, which
looks to Hoyt’s for a lot of its business.
Hoyt’s defeated the enemy at small expense.
It went at once to the Federal Crown Law
Department, explained the nature and reason
of the threatened boycott, and got an opinion
that, in attempting to prevent Hoyt’s from
paying the amusement tax instead of charg-
ing it to the public, the Associated show-
men were hampering the collection of war
taxes. Armed with this opinion Hoyt’s
manager proceeded to Sydney and gave the
enemy three hours in which to withdraw the
threat of boycott. It withdrew all right.
The voice of '£ i he Bulletin’s old friend
Eugenie Duggan is being heard again in Vic-
toria. She and brother Ned are doing a
country tour in a repertoire of old and popu-
lar plays. One of them is “Sunday,” wherein
Tilda Brune said “Hell!” with great empha-
sis in days gone by. Another is “My Mate,”
in the preparation whereof Ned is alleged to
have collaborated to the extent of supplying
some of the curses.
“C. Ockney” : I agree with “Cockaigne’s”
estimate of Tree (B. 15/8/T7) in the main ;
yet if the English mummer only shows Aus-
tralians his version of Falstaff, Malvolio.
Shyloek and Svengali, his visit will be worth
while. His Hamlet may be (as Gilbert said)
“funny without being vulgar,” but in his
true line of business his art is always worth
watching and his “production” unapproach-
able. Also he is a fine comedian .off the
stage.
“Cigarette”: During Wilkie’s 18 weeks’
season in Melbourne he staged six Shaks-
pearian plays, three classic comedies and
one hybrid (“The Bells”). This should be
a record for Australia, anyhow.
“Box Office”: On the charge against
Allan Wilkie of gagging in standard plays,
I go on the witness-stand with a 50-year-
old prompt book of Sheridan’s “School for
Scandal.” It has the identical gags used by
Wilkie in Melbourne. As for the gags put
into “She Stoops to Conquer,” I reckon
that they are the syrup served with an ex-
cellent suet pudding to make it palatable.
“Stargazer”: “Fair and Warmer” provides
a startlingly impressive lesson for producers
and players, warning them of comic inebria-
tion if they haven’t the capacity to deliver
the goods. Comic inebriation calls for very
capable acting. The man (and particularly
the woman) who starts out to be comically
intoxicated on the stage in the fierce white
limelight must have observed the humor-
some drunk frequently at close range and
with minute inspection and deep sympathy.
On top of that, he/she must possess an un-
common capacity for reproducing the quaint
effects while cautiously eliminating those
that are only provocative of moral distress.
In many years I have seen few men who
could be humorously and inoffensively drunk
on the boards, and but two women. Most of
the men were vaudeville specialists; so was
one of the women. In “Fair and Warmer”
the male ineb. has no more idea of what’s
wanted than a virtuous recluse who has
been reared by his 10 aunts; and the young
lady’s jag is hard and unseemly. Her move-
ments suggest the peregrinations of a sea-
sick spinster on the roughest pig-rooter that
ever hopped the waters, and her talk is a
spurious counterfeit that should never he
uttered. The amateurishness of the whole
business throws an effect of unripeness over
the show.
“V.P.”: The Dublin Abbey Theatre has
crashed upon a rock at last. A number of
the chief players, including Arthur Sinclair,
have struck against the management and
decided to form a co. of their own. Since
the days of the Fays, Maire O’Neill and Sara
Allgood the Abbey has had to weather some
bad storms, but this is the dead finish. Sin-
clair, who is to run the rival show, has been
the backbone of the Abbey for so long that a
performance without him will seem like a
wake without whisky. The trouble appar-
ently arose from the appointment of St.
John Ervine, the dramatist, as manager.
“Circle”: When is Australia going to
have open-air dancers? California (U.S.A.)
is quite used to them by now, and they frolic
barefooted in the East when the weather is
suitable —and sometimes when it isn’t. The
fine running Dance of the Nymphs in “The
Pink Lady” looks as if it had been inspired
by the classical cavorting of the graceful
open-air girls, who, because they dance on
the lawn or the sands, cannot indulge in any
machine-like toe-twiddlings. .The J.C.W.
dancers perform as part of a good indoor
show ; hut they could just as easily show on
a suburban lawn at a fete or on the smoothed
ocean sands. For open-air work one thing is
essential: the band musF be big enough to
make everybody hear the dance music. The
capers and attitudes of an unaccompanied
dancer are the silliest things in the world.
Remember the dancing ladies on the screen,
or the small Scotch kids leaping to the jingle
of an inaudible piano at the St. Andrew’s
Day revels?
“First Old Man”: The exclamatory play
title featuring the name of one of the princi-
pal characters is another tiling we may
thank Amurka for —if we feel like it. We
have had “So Long, Letty,” and “Very Good
Eddie,” and soon we are to sample Marie
Tempest in something equally scare-heady—
“ Good Gracious, Arabella!” There’s no
limit to this kind of cheap nomenclature,
though the Yankee playwright who chris-
tened his first piece “Believe Me, Xantippe,”
may find that effort difficult to live up to.
English authors are not doing much work
during the war, or no doubt they would be
in the movement. What’s wrong with
“What Cheer, ’Ria!” by Pinero, “Skip the
Gutter, Ermyntrude!” by Henry Arthur
.Tones; or “Great Heavens, Adolphus!” by
Barrie.
(Continued on page 1/2.)
During the A.N.A. conference at Iverang
lawyer George Moir, who spends a lot of his
spare time turning his eager face to the
Liberal sun, introduced a motion favoring
“the creation of an Imperial Parliament to
deal with foreign affairs and defence.” Moir
explained, somewhat ingenuously, that the
Imperial Parliament would be “two-thirds
Motherland.” and the Australia!! representa-
tion would carry with it certain taxation
responsibilities. The mover having thus
exposed the claws of the cat. the motion
received the clammy hand, and was presently
withdrawn in favor of an amendment, duly
carried with hardly a dissentient, giving
gentle approval to the Imperial Conference
at which (alas, poor William!) Australia is
not represented.
At the beginning of this year the can-
tankerous moulders of N. S. Wales declared
peace, and went back to work after a long
strike, having gained a wage increase that
will enable each man within a few years to
make good what he lost during the disturb-
ance. But that doesn’t clear up all the
ruins. In November last the Sydney trouble
brought the Melbourne moulders out, and
they are still there. The Melbourne men
demanded an assurance from the employers
that the castings they were employed upon
were not intended for blockaded N. S.
Wales. The employers refused to give it,
and work was stopped. There is no reason
now why the Victorians should fight on or
loaf off, but they’re still at it. It is on a
matter of principle, of course. Some of these
unionists are sturdy upholders of every prin-
ciple except respect for Arbitration.


LADIES ! EET NOT YOUR r IVAXS carry off all the honors.
DO NOT LET IT BE ON YOUR CONSCIENCE, YOU HAVE ALLOWED
YOUR BEAUTY TO FADE.
EVERY WOMAN CAN BE COMELY.
There is nothing: purer or more harmless than
J OHN S TRANCE TCnn
TOILET PREPARATIONS, used by ROYALTY.
Powder (3 tints), New Face Cream (2 colors), Pakslimi Cream and Potion, Soap, Hair
Foods (Oily and Non-Oil.y), Carmine, Dry Shampoo and Dental Cream. Ask for them
at the Civil Service, Washington H. Soul’s, Uassetter’s, McCathie’s, David .Tones’,
Horderns’, W. T. Waters’, Farmer & Co.’s, etc.
Send 2d. stamp for sample of Soap, or Powder, or Dental Cream, to John Strange Winter
(Pondon, Paris, Rome). Sydney Office: 32 Depot, 2G-30 Jamieson Street. Melbourne
Office: 331 Collins Street. Adelaide Office: Steamship Buildings, Currie Street.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“WAR IS HELL."
“ Don’t talk to me of your bally war. I’m
full! Why, since it’s been on, do you
know there’s been times when I didn’t
know where my next motor-car was
co[?]ing from!”
“Chal” : Let me recommend this scheme to
the Nark and other States. A few months
ago the South Aus. Government announced
that soldiers’ relatives and friends resident
in Britain would be promptly advised of
casualties that interested them. The names
and addresses of S. Aus. soldiers were called
for, together with a list of Billjim’s connec-
tions in Britain. The response was imme-
diate. The working of the scheme is sim-
plicity itself. The names and addresses
received are forwarded periodically to the
Agent-General, who indexes the information,
and immediately on the issue of a casualty
list by A.I.F. Headquarters, London, com-
pares it with the index. Should No.
9999, Private Bill Croweater, 10th Bat-
talion, be wounded, his fianc€e, Nurse Bill-
jimima, of the Australian General Hospital,
and his uncle, Mr. John Croweater. of Tot-
tenham, are at once advised that Bill is in
such and such a hospital. The need for
such a scheme was suggested by the number
of cables which were dispatched from South
Aus. advising people in the old land of
casualties to fighting men.
* * * *
“Trooper Iv.”: It was during the New
Year battle with the Turks near Raffa. An
Australian Light Horse regiment was ordered
to get round the enemy position and
prepare to make a rear attack. This en-
tailed an all-night ride and crossing the
border into Palestine. Having arrived at
the position we had to await the frontal
attack by the Yeomanry. The sun was just
clear of the horizon and stray shells were be-
ginning to burst among us, but every man
was too dead tired to take much notice. To
keep awake a number of the chaps started a
two-up school. The Colonel discovered it
just as a bet was being negotiated. “Look
at those he yelled, “not two minutes
in the Holy Land, Death staring ’em in the
face, and it’s ‘heads a pound.’ ” And turn-
ing to one of his officers, he added hastily :
“And it’s a quid he does ’em too !”
***■*■
“8.C.”: How their thoughts turn home-
ward ! I was marching down London Strand
when a desperate taxi-driver called me to
the kerb. Jerking his thumb at a sleeping
heap of uniform inside, “ ’Ere,” he said,
“ you’re an Orstralian, ain’t you? Well,
would you mind arsking that mate o’ yours
where ’e wants to go to? I can’t make out
th’ place.” I shook up the uniform and
called, “Here, wake up, and tell the driver
where you want to go!” One bleary eye
opened. “Flin’ers-street stash’n!” growled
the wandering Melbourne boy, and fell
asleep again.
* * * *
“8.T.”: This true tale explains how the
wiles of the wicked may come to naught,
and fn what manner the deceitful are caught
in their own nets. A well-known musician,
living on the outskirts of Melbourne, a
while ago dismissed the Bloods, a married
couple who hgd been with him for several
months. The musical Bohemian had become
annoyed at length by the persistent drunken-
ness of the pair. They had presumed on his
leniency in permitting them to go to bed
drunk so far as to make
it customary to get up
drunk. On the third
night following the dis-
missal, Beethoven was
bumped from his slum-
bers by a crash in an
adjoining room. Snatch-
ing up a two-foot brass
candlestick, and rushing
to the defence of his pos-
sessions, he stumbled on
an inexplicable situation.
Lying on the floor, with
a nasty bleeding dent in
his head, was the dis-
missed male Blood. By
him was a small sack
crammed with many of
Beethoven’s most cher-
ished belongings. By the
sack was a brick, a
corner •of which pro-
vided a perfect fit for the
roomy dent in Blood’s
cranium. One of the
front windows was
smashed. Blood had been
knocked out by the brick,
hurled by an unknown
hand, while seeking to
avenge himself on Bee-
thoven by prigging the
good musician’s silver.
Bill received a long sen-
tence. No allowance
was made for his rotten
luck. For the brick which
crippled Bill was thrown
through the dining-room window by Bill’s
missus, who,'being on an independent burst,
also sought to avenge the wrongs of the
Bloods in lamentable ignorance of the fact
that her Bill was within, burgling the side-
board.
“The Pariah”: No Europeans in China
have any hankering for the services of Dr.
Peng. The “Chinese doctor” requires no quali-
fications, no study and no stock-in-trade save
a couple of needles for acupuncture. Often he
becomes a doctor because he is no good for
anything else. Those who know their busi-
ness at all have some good drugs ; but they
use them in such quantities that after a dose
the patient has a bulge on his waistline.
Moreover, Pong’s choice of a drug depends
upon a weird diagnosis; so the victim is
lucky if the overdose he is sure to get is
of the right stuff. In addition to good
drugs, Pong is very fond of administering
powdered moths, silkworms and human ex-
cretions and secretions, hartshorn shavings
and anything, almost, that is disgusting and
nauseous. About eight years ago, at San-
choinhien, I was taken to a yellow medico
unconscious, as the result of a kick. I woke
up In what-I thought was Hell, very dim
and smelly, with a yellow demon, looking
owlishly wise behind the two-inch dark-glass
lens of his spectacles, just ready to acu-
puncture me for the second time with a hot
needle. Strict legislation should protect
trusting fools and their unfortunate children
against these quacks. I protected myself
with my feet.
QUITE OUT OF DATE.
WIFE: “ Are there any fashions in that paper, dear?”
JACK (who has just settled a dressmaker's bill): “Yes, hut they'd he of no use to you—
it's yesterday's paper."
“Padre” : Last niglit it was cold and foggy,
and we were crouched round the stove play-
ing euchre, when a shadowy transport-driver
stepped into the circle of light and thrust
a black mess-tin and a scrawled order at the
quartermaster:—
please give bearer 3 issues of rum for 3 men with
pains in there machine shed.
Did any of the congregation ever hear it
called that before?
“Corio” : Two more Anzacs in the making.
When the schooner Korora finished up off
the Camden Haven Bight (Northern N.S.W.)
the crew took to the boats and tried to land
on a shelving beach within view of the light-
house at Tacking Point. But the heavy seas
off-shore continually washed them back, and
when a lifebuoy attached to lines was
lowered, an undercurrent made it useless.
Then two lads in the knickerbocker stage,
buckling on lifelines, swam out through the
growling seas to the seamen. Considering
that this feat was undertaken at night-time
during incessant rain and on an ugly coast
with an evil name, it was worth the bronze
medal the Royal Humane Society is award-
ing. The winners got their men ashore safely.
The too-sudden infant got a further set-
back lately, when the High Court decided
that Arthur Hall, of Kerang (Vic.), was
entitled to a decree nisi from his wife, for
desertion. It appeared that Mrs. Hall,
shortly after her marriage,, told Arthur that
she was about to make someone else a happy
father. She thereupon retired to her parents’
home, and, after her little adventure, Hall
desired her to return to him, but not to
bring the infant. She declined. Justice
Cussen held that this did not constitute
desertion, and that, as mother and child
should not be separated, Hall should have
taken the lady back with all or any encum-
brances. The Vic. Full Court, on appeal,
said learned Brother Cussen was right; but
five High Court Judges unanimously said
“Nonsense,” or words to that effect. On the
whole, it seems best that way. For one
thing, if a man were compelled to keep
another man’s child or lose his wife, the in-
fant would have a rough time in most cases.
From Gerard Williams, who came this
way to look at Australian mines on behalf
of London Times, and is now with the Royal
Engineers:—
So Australians turned down “Yes”! Well, I
always did maintain that a democracy was the
least democratic of all Governments; but 1 am
sorry that Australia should confirm the idea'. Yet
how could you, how could anyone, expect to get
a real vote when every fit, able-bodied coward was
allowed to vote for his own exemption, and every
woman who has an idle son or a shirking “best boy”
was allowed to vote for his continuance in
cowardice!
In any case, the odds were against you—distance,
isolation, freedom from the hell of war: what did
your people really know of the women savaged, chil-
dren raped, homes destroyed—for Kultur? England
knows more about these things; yet, believe me,
in England (and I am English), if we had been set
to the same task of getting universal service by an
appeal to the people, we should have failed.
How short our memories are! Look at France!
Schooled in ’7O, yet forgetful in ’l4. But what a
wondrously glorious France she is to-day: a France
we who had often “done” Paris, toured Touraine
and wintered in Brittany never knew —won-
derful, glorious, reborn! A few weeks ago my
division came back to a rest area. I wandered into
he knew.
W IFE: “If fashion makes our dresses any
shorter, I don't know what we'll do."
HUSBAND: “I do — you’ll wear them."
a village with the advance guard and, hunting for
a meal, brought up at a little house wherein I had
arranged my billet. Whilst madame was getting
me some tucker —the mess-cart was a day’s march
behind—l looked at the photos in the room. “Your
sons, Madame?” I said, looking at a photo of three
young men. “They were,, M’sieur ; but now— mais
oui, c’est pour la France!” And she said it
proudly. “Yes, I have sons yet. They are not
dead while France lives!”
DESECRATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Across the twilit chancel the fitful tapers gleam,
Half-veiling - , half-revealing her majesty supreme,
White star of godless ages above a world defiled,
Thrice-blessed Marv, Mother of Christ the llolv
Child.
O matres dolorosa the hot-red road.is wet
With sweat of your travailing, with tears of your
regret!
On you the outcast stigma, the curse, the gibe, the
frown—■
O mothers of the women, the women of the town!
The city flaunts her splendor across the night of
Fate,
Her heart the heart of Judas, her smile the smile of
hate ;
Bed, blood-red are her altars, your tears have told
the cost,
0 matres dolorosa, O mothers of the lost!
Like ripe grain to the threshing forth speed the boys
ye wean
Lest bayonets fail their fleshing, or lag- the war-
machine.
The valley of the shadow ye rode for them in vain,
O matres dolorosa; —O mothers of the slain!
O’er half a world's black chaos the battle bale-fires
gleam,
Half-veiling, half-revealing her agony supreme—
Not Mary, queen of mothers, who bare the Holy
Child,
But Mary, queen of martyrs—bowed, broken, world-
defiled.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


jean
a pair of real
Gabardine Riding;
Trousers for 25/-
TO ORDER
>? a
THERE is no cloth better suited than REAL
Gabardine for Riding Pants.
The wear is there without undue weight,
whilst the texture is fine, allowing the garments
to make up and to look well.
This is an exceptional offer to secure the
real Gabardine at a price considerably low
than it can ever be offered at again
SHADES: GREEN. GREY. FAWN & CREAM.
SEND FOR FREE PATTERNS TO-DAY.
er •
.. 25j -
PIKE BROTHERS L IM ™
Brisbane.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 15th March, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Cordage to
H.M.A. Naval Establishments, Sydney.
r I TENDERS will be received, subject to
-L the conditions of tendering, untii 12
noon on Wednesday, 4th April, 1917, for the
supply and delivery of Cordage to H.M.A.
Naval Establishments, Sydney.
Tender form, Specification and full par-
ticulars may be obtained on application at
the Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office.. Melbourne ; and the Naval Store
Officer. Garden Island, Sydney.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Cord-
age” on top left-hand corner of envelope,
and addressed (if by post, prepaid) to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; -or the Director of Navy Con-
tracts. c/o Naval Store Officer, H.M.A.
Naval Establishments, Sydney.
Tenders to be, in all cases, on printed
forms, which can be obtained as above.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne. 2nd March, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of 20,000
Superficial Feet of Teak Timber for
the Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
AMENDED NOTICE.
riIENDEItS are invited, subject to the
JL conditions of tendering, until half-past
two p.ni. on Monday, 9th April, 1917. for the
supply of 20,000 superficial feet of Teak
Timber to the Commonwealth Naval Dock-
yard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
Tender forms, specifications, etc., may be
obtained on application to the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne;
General-Manager, Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney; and at
the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birken-
head (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed "Tender for Teak
Timber for Stock, Cockatoo Island,” on top
left-hand corner of envelope, and addressed
to the Director of Navy Contracts. Navy
Office, Melbourne ; or the Director of Navy
Contracts, care of one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
form, which can be obtained as above.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
“4240”: It was in the advanced dressing
station at what onr fellows call Bernafay
Wood—l don't know whether it’s on the
map like that. One hard-doer came in hor-
ribly smashed about the face. “They’ve had
a good go at me. Doc.,” he whispered when
he came round. “You’re right, lad —they
have,” said the doc. “But I beat ’em for
me teeth." Bill gently chuckled —“I had ’em
in me pocket!”
“Didymus” explains how we economise:—
Melbourne G.P.O. takes, its *hat off to the Depart-
ment’s latest scheme of “efficiency and economy.”
Some genius has got to work on a new system of
paying the telegraphists.
Under the old system a man signed the salary-
sheet, received a slip on which was written his name
and the amount due to him, presented the slip to
the paying officer about 2ft. distant and received his
money. This system was. quick and reduced the
liability to error to vanishing point. In branches
where various shifts are worked the paymaster and
his assistant, starting at about 10.30 a.m., had all
the morning staff paid by about 11.30 a.m. or noon,
and the afternoon and evening staffs occupied from
about 2.30 p.m. till 4. Meantime he had some
chance of attending to his ordinary duties, he being
also officer in charge of the receiving-room.
Hut that was much too simple for the “efficiency”
cranks; so now the ceremony has been • made far
more impressive. After receiving the money from
the bank, the paymaster and his assistant retire to a
secluded roost at the top of the G.P.O. There they
find, arranged in rows in a wooden frame-work, a
number of small tins, about 14 inch each way.
These tins fit tightly into the shelves. The tins are
numbered from 1 to about 450. The paymaster has the
paysheet on which are the names, the amounts due,
and the numbers of the staff. He calls out “J.
Smith, £lO, No. 15,” counts out the tenner from the
bulk supply, hands it to his assistant, who counts it
again, selects tin No. 15 and pots the dough. lie
then returns the tin to the shelf. This process takes
the two of them all the time that it formerly took
to pay the morning staff. They retire to lunch.
About 2.30 p.m. the framework —convoyed by a
guard—is taken down to the telegraph floor. Mean-
while the payee has not been idle. He has put in
time obtaining from his supervisor a slip of paper
with his name, number and amount due typed there-
on. He has to sign this slip and present it to the
paymaster. The paymaster then selects the corres-
ponding tin and levers it out with some instrument.
One of these days the paymaster will cut loose
and hammer those tins flat. Then the “efficiency”
crank will have to give us our money in fish-kettles.
* * * *
Presbyterian chaplain-general Larry Ren-
toul, back from bis tour of the hospitals and
among the Australian troops in Europe, re-
turned with at least one grievance which
looks like more than a mere grizzle. One of
the many things which soldiers talk about,
according to Itentoul, is the question
of how men who had never been to
the Front had gained the honor of
the D.S.O. They also serve, of course,
who only stand and wait; but it must take
a lot of standing and waiting for a man to
deserve what has always been considered
purely a powder-smeller’s decoration. The
irrepressible doctor should be encouraged to
'"’ l ail he knows—or take back his imputa-
tion,
THE MODERN WAY.
S HE: “He looks the sort that loves and rides
away.”
HE: “Not these times! He drives a car, and
the cute girl rides with him.”
“Copa”: This little world. • Billjim had
received a packet of home-views, and was
passing them round to a number of us casu-
ally picked up in billets. “Why, these came
from my shop in Melbourne 1” exclaimed one.
So-they did. Thev bore his name and the
familiar Australian legend: “ Printed in
Saxony!” The last bullet the Germans fired
at him was probably bought with his money.
The irony of it!
A FINAL REQUEST.
“And, dearest, promise me if you win a V.C. that you won't go and give it to some
other girl for a hatpin.”
For the national welfare another long-
distance jaunt was undertaken last week in
Victoria, when 250 A.N.A. delegates trav-
elled by special train clean across the State
to the Mallee. This year’s A.N.A. conference,
which began oh Tuesday, is being held at
Kerang, a hamlet in the midst of a large
irrigation area through which the Loddon
strolls down to the Murray. The quarter-
thousand gay nation-builders carried with
them a heavy load of politicians of big
calibre, plenty of smokes, eats, drinks, packs
of cards and prepared speeches, and 250
light hearts and carefree souls. No doubt
‘■bis sort of picnic is a highly beneficial busi-
ness for the Kerang pub-keepers and quick-
shavers, and a perfect godsend to the local
garage boss. But the present hardly seems a
suitable time for spending a lot of money,
either private or public, on travelling 180
miles to give the Australian Parliaments a
lead. A dozen accredited A.N.A. delegates
meeting in the cloak-room of a suburban
town-hall could probably perform a national
service of equal value.
“Montalex” : Stripped of legendary glamor
and robbed of all the glories of the days of
I laroun-al-Raschid, Dar-es-Selam (“Abode
of Peace,” as Bagdad is styled in Turkish
official documents) is to-day about the last
word in sordid and unromantic squalor. The
only water supply is what is carried from
the Tigris, and sewerage there is none ; hence
the vigor and variety of the stenches evolved
from a crowd of 180,000 badly washed
people, in a climate that gives often a mid-
day shade temperature of 120 deg. F. The
“streets” are a labyrinthine tangle of narrow
and filthy lanes, margined by a monotony of
grimy walls, unbroken save for here and
there a 'mean little doorway. Even the
bazaars, are dirty and dilapidated, though
they are kaleidoscopic with the costumes of
Turks, Persians. Armenians, Arabs, Kurds,
Afghans and Indians. The city is built of
bricks, mostly recovered from the abundant
prehistoric ruins of the neighborhood. But
the distant poets still rhyme fondly about
the old dust-heap. Having personally smelt
Bagdad (the poets haven’t), I have no sen-
timent to waste on it.
When will Labor leaders do their duty
and talk plain Australian to those fool-
followers of theirs who punish employers
for doing something more than they have to?
The latest case happened in Melbourne. Sar-
gents had been paying their waitresses more
than the standard: and when the Wages
Board raised the rates —largely because Sar-
gents had been paying 1 more —the damsels
conceived the idea that the firm ought to go
on paying extra. So there was a strike;
and the firm’s business was upended for a
few days. What sort of encouragement is
this for 'firms to pay more than an award
prescribes even when they think that the
award is less than a fair thing?
* *• * #
What a valuable collection of hints might
be got if every Judge was required, after 10
years of service, to write for Parliament a
report, reviewing his work in a judicial spirit,
with an eye to the removal of legal anom-
alies and injustices! Now and again a
Judge feels that he simply has to let himself
go—especially when he is a very human
Judge like Gordon, of S. Aus. He had a
young man in front of him the other day
for assault on a child of 10; and, full of
horror, he moralised on the “glaring incon-
sistency” of laws which told him that he
must not give more than two years for an
offence of this kind, yet permitted him to
inflict a life sentence for the forgery of a
cheque for a shilling.
* * * *
Britain’s moderately 7 new idea in letter-
addressing, evolved to overcome the shortage
of postal labor, looks the sort of thing that
may stay. As yet the system has been
applied only to London ; but it could easily be
extended to other large cities, and that is only
where it is needed. Briefly, the idea is the
numberinsr of districts, which loads to a sim-
plification of letter-sorting, and does away
with delays while sorters consider what a
particularly undecipherable or vague address
means. A letter directed to, say, dis-
trict “12” goes in with other letters for
district 12, and anybody can be put on to the
rough sorting of letters addressed in that
fashion. Though the system is quite new a
large proportion of London letters are
already numbered, and thus almost sort them-
selves, leaving the depleted staff more time
to handle the balance that are addressed in
the old fashion.
* * * *
In a commonplace Melbourne divorce case,
which' the Win-the-War press reported as
though it were a matter of grave national
importance, the husband stated that his
wife’s parents desired her to get a divorce
because, “under existing conditions, they could
never take her to Government House.” Of
course, that settled it. When the bonds of
matrimony restrain a lady from getting to
Government House they have plainly ceased
to be holy, and ought to be severed.
“A..T.8.” : The Chinese herbalist who tried
to cure a dreadfully-burned child with honey
and liquorice powder (B. 18//3/17) belongs
to a very privileged class. The Boards of
Health in the various States are emphatic
that even inspectors of nuisances should be
certificated. Yet they allow the herbalists to
practise and dispense medicine without any
qualification. Provided they keep clear of
the drugs prescribed under the Poisons Acts
they can go till Doomsday. Some of them
have passed the chemists’ • examination,
which entitles them to dispense any drug,
but they don’t bother to trade as ordinary
pill-pounders —that would loosen their hold
on the ignorant and morbid who love the
mystery that clings to the word “herbalist.”
I can’t believe that such dreadful ignorance
prevails in regard to anything else. For
example, what bricklayer, seeking for jobs
at bricklaying, would find it profitable to
hide the fact that he had “served his time”
learning the trade? Yet actually there are
people who will only hire a doctor provided
he can convince them that he isn’t qualified.
“Vemi Dominie”: Far be it from me to
ferment a yeasty argument on the merits of
the “religious instruction” imparted to
State School children by duly authorised
persons; but I think the privilege should be
reserved for persons of some sympathy and
intelligence. I am sitting in my school siz-
zling in silent protest at the stuff that is
being served out to my youngsters at this
moment. They are the overflow of a mining
town, and as primordial as chipped flint.
Their soul-needs require special understand-
ing. But he (or It) is a large oleaginous
mass, who ignores the essential thing and
fails to grasp all the welter of values in the
situation. He begins heavily like a beaten
tom-tom: “Next Sunday is Septuagesima
Sunday.” The kids look politely uninter-
ested. “I shall read the Collect for that
Sunday.” When he has finished they sigh
soullessly. He proceeds: “The lesson for
to-day is taken from the umptieth chapter of
Deuteronomy, beginning at the nth verse.”
Then follows a dusky discourse, and the
young miner listens with his tongue in both
cheeks—or mostly doesn’t listen. Outside,
the earth is newly washed, the sky is deli-
cate with clean greys and blues, the sun sifts
through the majestic blaze of a bougain-
villaea, and the air is heavy with the perfume
and the passionate life of everything. And
all the gods that are are Alive and Articulate
and Insistent. But this man, with his
gabble, makes of God a dead thing. And so
lie works out his half-hour, copfuses their
young souls with his jargon, and signs the
visitors’ book. I hereby place it to his
Debit Account.
THE FIRST TALKING-MACHINE.
“Wriggs”: Blame it on to our school-
masters who beat “The Village Blacksmith”
into us when we were young. Naturally, when
we were marched to the ancient village of
Figheldean, on Salisbury Plain (Eng.), and
saw the famous old spreading chestnut tree
leafless before us, we decided to knife a slip
of bark for the old folks at home. But so
many of us started that to-day wire-netting
surrounds it, while a notice remarks that
anyone further damaging the tree will be
prosecuted. Feeling sick and discouraged, we
trooped over the way to the church where
the Village Blacksmith heard his daughter
sing. I suppose we took our penknives with
us. What do vou think they did then?
Threatened to close the church to us! In
England they hate peonle who want to show
how much they appreciate poetry.


THE EMPIRE WAR CONFERENCE.
The newspapers hail the first Empire War Cabinet as marking a new epoch in Imperial history. The “Daily Express” deplores the pettiness which has prevented Australia having a representative present. — Coble.
[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]


THE MUTUAL BELT-TIGHTENING.


[If any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Bark and E. O’Ffrrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
NEUTRALISES STOMACH ACID, OR
MONEY BACIv.
Recently a well-known - authority on the
treatment of stomach troubles, who has
claimed that practically all stomach trouble
is due to acidity, decided to put his theory
to the test. Every sufferer from stomach
trouble was told to take half a teaspoonful
of hixiirated magnesia in a little water
immediately after eating or whenever pain
was felt. The test completely vindicated his
theory, for relief was indicated in each of
the first hundred reports received, showing
conclusively that the trouble had been due to
stomach acid which, as is well known by
physicians, is instantly neutralised by bisu-
rated magnesia. Since making known this
test, the well-known chemists who have
specialised in preparing bis urn ted magnesia
exclusively for stomach use have arranged to
place in every package of genuine bisurated
magnesia a binding guarantee contract of
satisfaction or # money back —proof positive
of their belief' that nearly every so-called
dyspeptic is really suffering from acidity—
and their confidence that genuine bisurated
magnesia will instantly neutralise stomach
arid and stop food fermentation. Always
look for the name “Bisurated” on the label
and the guarantee contract inside the pack
nge.—Aim’.
sd
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
v- ,'aring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's*
/,
<7850
Tm K'H
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROU
LEWIS&wnITTY MAKERS
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints,
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BRIGADIER-GEXERAL SELLHEIM,
State Commandant (Vic.).
The first officer to join up with the new
Australian Army Reserve, constituted as “a
national insurance for the future peace of
Australia,” was I.ieut. Arthur Ilenty. He
is a grandson of the late James Ilenty, who
founded the ancient Melbourne firm which
still bears his name. .Tames was one of the
Portland brotherhood which, a long neck in
front of Batman and Fawkner, first began
to populate what later on became the State
of Victoria.
Unless Edden can recover on a second
ballot there will not be left one survivor of
the first Labor brigade in the N. S. Wales
Parliament. McGowen’s personal popularity
couldn’t save him in Redfern; canny Gann,
of Broken Hill, saw the writing on the wall
and crept into a Railway Commissionership
a few months ago; big-hearted, rugged Alf
Edden, of Kahibah, finds himself at last
second on the poll; and so does J. B. Nichol-
son, .of Wollongong. All these got into
Parliament on the ’9l wave, and had been
there ever since—over 100 years of it among
the four of them.
April birthdays: Dr. Abrahams (Melb.
Hebrew Congregation), 62, and pastoralist
W. E. Abbott, of Wingen (N.S.W.), 73, on
Ist; A. M. Simpson (S.A.), 74, and Dr.
Jeflferis (S.A.), formerly of Pitt-street (Syd-
Congregational Church, 84, on 4th;
Edwin T Smith, S. Aus. philanthropist, 87,
on 6th; artist Streeton, 49, and Dr. Roseby,
of Sydney, 73, on Bth ; ex-Prime Minister J.
C. Watson, 49, on 9th ; Bernard O’Dowd, 51.
on 11th; Geo. Brookman (S.A.), 67, on
15th; Sydney’s ex-Mayor Tom Hughes, 54,
on 19th; L. A. Adamson (headmaster of
Wesley College, Melb.), 57, on 20th; Arthur
Robinson, Victorian solicitor-politician, 45,
on' 23rd.
WHAT DTD SHE EXPECT?
“How is Mr. Dauber getting on with your
portrait, dear ?”
"Oh, I’m not going to sit for him again.”
"Why? Is he too slow?"
"Slow! I should think he was. He wants to
just go on painting all the time."
A youth named Thomas Day, of Mount
Gambier (S.A.), anxious to enlist and hav-
ing a preference for a Melbourne depot,
started to walk there. lie did about 50
miles on foot, then struck a job as a drover.
After travelling with the sheen for three
days he had earned enough to pay for a
second-class ticket by rail from Serviceton.
Arrived in Melbourne, he made a beeline
for the Town Hall, and offered himself as a
recruit. The story ought to end with a
V.C. But the plot went wrong, ard the
gritty youngster failed to pass the doctor.
It wasn’t his heart that was wrong, though.
This has been a bad year for the Craw-
fords. There were two brothers, both of
them with brains and little else to start off
with. They both worked' hard. One got
into Parliament in Queensland, read law.
and was in practice in Clermont when the
recent flood arrived. He was drowned. The
other, taking to the Church, got his M.A. :
then he, too, was bitten by the political
insect, left the. Church, joined the Labor
party, got a seat in the N.SAV. Parliament,
and was presently admitted as a barrister.
On Saturday he was beaten at Marrickville :
and though there were four candidates the
P.L.L. man had such a lend that Crawford
hasn’t even the satisfaction of a second
ballot.
. An interesting sidelight is thrown on the
late Chief Justice Way, of S. Aus., by., the
settlement of a local four-year-old lawsuit.
The trouble was between some quarry people
and the nearest house-owner. Both sides
had money, there were complicated points of
Nuisance and Trespass, and the old Chief,
with the caution which became almost an
obsession in his latest days, “reserved” his
judgment. He had never, in all his long
career, had one upset on appeal. Appeal was
prettv certain in this case, whichever way lie
gave it; and he was tortured by the thought
that something might happen to spoil his
record. Hence he reserved judgment, and
went on reserving ■it month after month.
Judgment was still “reserved” when he died,
so the litigants found themselves faced with
the necessity of going through the costly
trial all over again. After thinking about
it for a year, one of them sensibly sold out
to the other.
Lawyer Davine, of Warragul (Vic.), beat
Vice-President Senator Albert Blakey in
running for the 1917 chief-presidency of the
A.N.A. As a rule, this office is filled in an
accepted rotation, and Blakey was the office-
bearer all ready to move up into the shoes
of the retiring president, Private Ostrom.
But Blakey’s views on Conscription made
him miss the step.
Adelaide has lost it£ veteran of military
veterans, William Mills. He claimed to be
94, and his fighting was over before most
grandfathers now living were born. It was
all against the Sikhs, at Sobraon, Chillian-
wallah, and so on, in the ’4o’s —so long ago
that his medals attracted special attention
from Kitchener when in Australia. Mills
lost an eye in that long-ago campaign, but he
told no thrilling yarns about it, explaining
modestly that it was done in a tent by the
spur of “a comrade of mine who was making
his bed.” The old warrior was given a
stirring military funeral'by the Veterans’’
Corps in Adelaide —founded 30 years ago by
actor Wybert Reeve.
Hr. Foley, the new R.C. Bishop of Bal-
larat, is a cousin of Dr. Mannix, the
Coadjutor-Archbishop of Melbourne, and they
.both coine from “the beautiful city called
Cork.” The Ballarat bishop does not seem
to have' anything like the warlike spirit of
his cousin. Archbishop Carr, of Melbourne,
told a deputation that waited on him a few
days ago to ask him to restrain his helpmate
that he couldn’t interfere with what Mannix
said in public. But things may alter a
bit. Dr. McCarthy, Dr. Carr’s Vicar-General,
has been made Bishop of Sandhurst (Bendi-
go), and Archbishop Mannix has been made
V.-G. in his place. Now, therefore, Dr.
Mannix will have a lot of “departmental”
work to do under his chief, and the chief
will have more direct and immediate control
over what he does and says.
P. .T. Minahan, the Labor M.L.A. who was
pushed out in the Belmore (Sydney) selection
ballot, and who preferred a martyr’s death
at Cootamundra at the hands of I-lolman
rather than an inglorious count out, was the
first and last man since the days of old Ed-
ward Terry to give away the whole of his
Parliamentary screw. This proved a marked
source of weakness to him ; in Parliament
because of its impossible example, in the
electorate because of the amount of sheer
mendicancy it induced, which grew on what
it fed and remained always hungry. If a
member spent £50.0 per annum judiciously
he should at least get a serviceable advt. out
of it. but let him not mention the amount of
his birdlime, otherwise in every district
tlierc_ will be about 9500 people and 49
associations asking why their dividend
wasn’t paid.
Recently-dead William Salmond, Professor
of Philosophy at Otago (M.L.) University,
went the whole pork when he tackled Pro-
hibition, as he frequently did. A few years
ago he put it this way :
Must the millions of honest, stalwart men be
thrust aside all for the problematical benefit of a
relatively small number of fools or weaklings with a
morbid streak in their blood and brains? We shall
never cure intemperance by drastic or compulsory
legislation so long as thousands and tens of thousands
are cold and hungry, can scarce find work and are
ill-paid when they get if. and live in dirt and foul
THE BROTHER HOOD OF MAY.
“We're bound to ’ave our differences, boys;
but, remember, there's no two of us
built exactly alike."
air. The cause of drunkenness in the United King-
dom is not the existence of drink so much as the
cheerless gloom of an empty existence in a miserable
climate. Under the conditions of life in Mnoriland
beneath our bright blue skies drunkenness can never
be so bad.
lie liked the return wallop, too; but no
hypocrisy! “I object to being prayed for and
prayed oyer.” he said on one occasion. “I
object to having holy hands held up over
me.” He was :i guid. Scotch Christian man
nnd was around the 82nd corner when the
light failed.
Two citizens of Melbourne have the right
to overlook the accounts of the City Corpo-
ration as honorary auditors on behalf of the
ratepayers, apart from the Council's paid
checker-up. Old John Stoup Chambers, Mel-
bourne’s mossiest ironmonger, has held a
half-share in the job for many years. Lately
he resigned the position, and butcher Biil
Angliss was chosen
in his stead. Pro-
bably nobody will
be a penny the
better or worse,
while the Council
will continue to
keep the Pink
Room up-to-date
with the ratepay-
ers’ money and
provide the ladies’
apartments, as of
yore, with scented
soap and hairpins
and rice-gowder.
CAPTAIN
EVANS, the
Speck's
Speaker.
Dead recently at Hay (N.S.W.) John
Bent, brother of the late Thomas, Premier,
etc., of Victoria. He was a native of the
Nepean-Penrith district; his father and
Henry Parkes were laborers on John Jami-
son’s Regent Ville estate contemporaneously.
Passed out at the Coast Hospital (N.S.AY.)
last week, Mrs. Clara Phillips, only surviv-
ing daughter of the last representative of
royalty in the Shoalhaven abo. tribe. Her
native name was Gunyeh. She went to the
La Perouse Mission Station when she was
about 21 and lived there for 20 years.
“Try Fluke” : Charles C. Dacre, the old-
time sport who died at Auckland the other
day, belonged to a family whose Maoriland
story goes back to within a few years of a
century. Charles C.’s father was an ex-
Royal Navy captain who had a Sydney-
registered schooner, the Royal Mail, with
which in 1824 or thereabouts he went hunt-
ing for kauri spars in God’s Own Country.
He ran M.L.’s first greenstone cargo. This
was in 1842. Early that year Dacre was in
Manila, when some Filipino agents for Chow
firms got sight of a beautiful greenstone
m6rd he had obtained in 1830, and fell over
one another in their excited inquiries as to
where the rest of the stuff was. The skipper
sold liis mere at a very big price, returned
to Sydney, fitted out the Royal Mail with
blasting powder and quarrying appliances
and sent her off to Milford Sound and other
M.L. bays to pick up a load of the jade. The
man he sent, in charge was blinded by a gun-
powder explosion, and when, with a lot of
trouble, two tons of the stone was shipped
off to Manila,/ it fetched scarcely anything.
It turned out to be the wrong kind—full of
black specks—and the Shanghai Chows for
whom it was wanted yelled that it was all
one-piecee no good.
With Josiah Thomas fighting shy of the
Reps.- seat for the Barrier, the last of the
men who led the big Broken Ilill strike of
24 years ago quitted politics. Sleuth and
Ferguson, the ablest of the lot. dropped out
long ago. Cann. who was the miners’ man
in the House at the time, took a. Railway
Commiss'onership a few mouths agb.
Thomas, who xvas the strikers’ delegate to
Sydney and Queensland, has had a comfort-
able job ever since—first in the Assembly
for the safest Labor seat in N. S. Wales, and
then in the Reps, for the easiest Labor seat
in that House. Now he has to go out into
a cruel world and battle for a Senate seat
with the Liberals; and the spectacle of
’Siah, the uncompromising Socialist, asking
for the confidence of the Win-the-War Fat-
man, and the Fatman pretending to give it
to him, is going to be one of the choicest
sights of the next few months.
Manager I*. Farquharson, of the State
metal quarry at Bombo (N.S.W.), has put
up a record of a sort by being the uncle of
five Victoria Cross winners in the present
war. llis own uncle won the Cross at Luck-
now in Mutiny days. Farquharson’s two
boys have got into khaki in the hope of add-
ing to the family collection of decorative
ironmongery.
JAM.
(A Hymn of Hate.)
LFon The Hulmutn.]
What is meant by active service
’Ere where Hell is leakin’ 100-e,
’N’ the oldest ’and's as nervis
As a dog-bedevilled goose,
Has bin writ be every poet
What can rhyme it worth a dam,
But the 'orror as we know it
Is jist jam, jam, JAM!
Oh, (he ’ymn of ’ate we owe it—
Stodgy, splodgv, seepy, soaky, sanguinary jam!
There’s (he “fearful roar iv battle,”
What gets underneath ver ’at,
Mooin’ like a million cattle
Each as big as Ararat;
There’s the red field green ’n’ slippy
(And I'm cleaner where 1 am),
But the thing that’s got me nippy
It is jam, jam, JAM !
Druv us sour it has, ’n' dippy,
Sticky, sicky, slimy, sloppy, stummick-strafm’ jam l
Of the mud that’s in the trenches
Writers make a solemn fuss;
For the vermin ’n’ the stenches
kittle ladies pity us ;
But the yearn that’s honest dinkum,
’N’ the prayer what ain’t a sham
Is that Fritz may bust ’n' sink em
Ships of jam, jam, JAM!
For we bolt 'em, chew ’em, drink ’em,
Million billion bar’ls of beastly, cloyin’, clammy jam 1
We are sorry-sick of peaches,
’N’ we’re full right up of plum,
’N’ our innards fairly screeches
When the tins of apple come.
Back of Blighty piled in cases,
Jist as close as they can cram,
Fillin' all the open spaces,
F the jam. jam, JAM!
Oh, the woe the soldiers face is,
Monday, Sunday, ruddy, muddy, boundless bogs of
jam.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


*
A
<asns
*«
4
/ \
&
£
I2IMB
w, t 7*1 7 7
I II '.I - i%, /f/zA V /Jfi r.
4v
v>
7
7\
1
5.-,.
Jfc
«nj
I
V?
A
4
H-fS.
MS
Tr
srt
4
T.)
I
«•
7
y\
" v
\A
V \ \\
4m 1
-
m.
THE EASTER SHOW
m
%\
m.
%
Whir*
S BO^ ,Or
.. —-•V'ff
»< 1
*»»
TirWir
Pp.o
me
484 b 490 GEORGE ST
3 to 17 ROYAL ARCAPE
STYLE
HEADQUARTERS
FOR ALL THAT
MEN WEAR.
New Branch Store
at 304 George St.
(near Hunter St).
0
the multitude of Show-time attractions which claim the attention of both City Residents and Country Visitors
during Easter Week, our Autumn Style Show of Apparel for Men is at once Striking and Unique.
Conspicuous for its wealth of interest and suggestion in the matter of correct dressing —a demonstration also of
the unusually keen values and outstanding good qualities which obtain through all departments of these Men’s
Wear Stores.
More particularly, we invite inspection and comparison of the New Suiting Fabrics for Autumn and
Winter Wear. Not only are the patterns and colorings of special interest, but to-day. and to most men,
the qualities of cloth—the unequalled choice of High-grade Fabrics, will make a strong appeal.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS SEND FOR PATTERNS.
“Austral” Sac Suits to Measure, 75/-, 85/-, 95/-, 105/-, 6 Guineas, 7 Guineas.
CARRIAGE /A PAID OX ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
•484-490 George Street,
3-17 Royal Arcade and
GOWING BROS. LTD.
304 George Street (near
Hunter Street), Sydney


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SIRVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia),
Ltd.
, Dividends. N
6 p.c. To Re- Re-
£ £ £ £ £
Jan., Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1915.. 532,824 89,084 12 p.c.= 438,618 5122 24,498
1916.. 538,532 89,084 12 „ ~443,495 5953 30,451
1917.. 536,974 89,084 12 ~ ~447,175 715 31,166
In 1903 the British Australasian Tobacco
Co. took over the Dixson and Cameron busi-
nesses ; and they, again, were amalgama-
tions. Subsequently other concerns were
brought in; and now there are apparently
three cos.—the British Australasian, the
States Tobacco and W. I). & H. O. Wills
(Aus.) —whose shares are held wholly by
this co. These subsidiary cos. have each an
independent existence; and, the. directors
say, the published figures of this co. “do
not include the co.’s interest in the undivided
profits of the subsidiary cos.” Nor, of course,
do the reserves of this co. include the
reserves of the subsidiary cos. Pre-
sumably. however, the profits of the subsi-
diaries don’t very greatly exceed their divi-
dends ; at any rate, there is no obvious rea-
son why any large amount of profit should
be laid by. The capital is hoav £5,219,256,
of which £1.484,727 is in 6 p.c. cumulative
pref. shares of £1 each and £3,734,529 in
fully paid £1 ordinaries. Of this £5,219,256
no less than £4,769,470 is represented by
“shares in subsidiary cos. (book value).”
As the balance-sheets of the latter cos. are
not published it is impossible to say how
much of the capital is represented by good-
will and other hypothetical assets. Certainly
there must be a large difference between the
book value of the shares and the value of
the premises, plant, stock and other tangible
assets. In a case of this kind, therefore, the
investor has to disregard the tangible secu-
rity for his principal, and consider only what
the chances are of the business being left
alone to make profits. The man who wants to
see gold for his money, or something that can
be converted into gold if the business stops,
must pass British Tobacco shares. The
market takes a sanguine view of the future,
and in normal time’s the ordinaries are
worth about £2. In other words the market
adds, say, £3,500,000 to the par value of the
shares; and it pays that mostly for goodwill,
in addition to whatever of goodwill may be
included in the book value of the shares in
the subsidiary cos.
Twelve months ago there were 3,702,244
ordinaries, and since then 32.285 have been
issued—to the trustees of the Employees’
Trust. During the/ past three years the
additions to capital in this way have been:
1914 .. .. £33,536
1915 .. .. 38,708
1916 .. .. 32,285
Total. . . . £104,529
The plan of co-partnership is worth some
attention ; for the British Tobacco Co. carries
profit-sharing further probably than any other
Australian co. The shares are allotted to
employees, male or female, who have been a
certain period with this or a subsidiary
co.—two years qualify in most cases. Salary
or wages are the basis of allotment; but for
the purposes of the allotment no salary of
over £250 a year is taken into account.
There are six trustees —four appointed by
the directors and two by the employees—
and they hold the shares in trust for the
employee to whom they have been allotted.
After the trustees have hqld them for five
years the employee is entitled to have them
sold, if he wants to sell them; but as he
gets the 12 p.c. dividend on them he mostly
doesn’t want to, especially as at the end of
eight years the trustee hands them over and
the employee goes on the register as an
ordinary shareholder, with full rights.
Assuming that all the 104,529 shares allotted
since the scheme was introduced are still
held on behalf of employees, the latter now
get an addition of £12,543 to their wages or
salary in a twelve-month. And they don’t
get the profit only; the principal is theirs
too. The co. does not, of course, bind itself
to go on distributing shares; that must de-
pend upon whether the co-partnership idea
gives practical results. In case the employee
dies within the five-year period the shares
are sold for the benefit of his dependants.
It is a fine scheme, not only for inducing the
employees to take an interest in their work
and for ridding the cos. of those wretched
little strikes that are so harassing and ruin-
ous, but also for minimising the risks of
political action against the trade.
Incidentally, and as part of the same
scheme, the co. has an insurance department,
embodying house-purchase and annuities. On
the house-purchase side the employee may,
by himself putting up 5 p.c. of the amount
he requires for building, borrow the balance
from the co. at the astonishingly low rate of
3 p.c.: and repayments may be spread over
a very long period—up to 29 years. The
life insurance premium is payable half by
the co. and half by tiie employee; it is one
of the A.M.P.’s ordinary endowment policies,
maturing at 60 or 65, according to the age of
the employee at entrance, and the benefits
are payable in either a lump sum of by w r ay
of annuity. If the employee cannot pass the
medical test, then the co. does the next best
thing to encourage the employee to be
thrifty— it will pay into the savings bank
the amount which it would otherwise pay
into the life office. There are other minor
benefits offered by the co.; and if. all to-
gether, they don’t get for the co. and its sub-
sidiaries a superior crowd of workpeople
who value their jobs, the directors have
every reason to feel hurt about it.
* * * *
The Emu Bay Railavay Co. (Tas-
mania) :
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Profit, dends. Assets).
1905. . £360,000 £214.668 £3,828 Nil £175,868
1906.. 360,000 210,546 9.191 Nil 166,677
Capital written off, £65,000 . . 101,677
1907.. 295,000 205,257 10,671 £8,750 99,750
1908.. 295,000 205,175 1,297 Nil 98,459
1909.. 295,000 205,109 6,090 Nil 92.369
Unexplained reserves, £ 1830 .. 90,539
1910.. 295,000 193,318 6,198 4,375 88,716
1911.. 295,000 190,711 6,081 4,375 87,010
1912.. 295,000 183,718 10,811 4,375 80,574
1913.. 295,000 190,714 10,195 18,687 89,066
Loss.
1914.. 295,000 191,172 7,261 Nil 96,327
1915.. 295,000 198,099 1,960 Nil 98,287
Profit.
1916.. 295,000 201,494 401 Nil 97,886
Revenue was £48,784; and working and
other expenses were £25,629. That looks
like a decent profit. But the trouble is
that the co. owes £172,000 on debentures and
also merely leases part of its line from the
Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Co.; wherefore
last year interest called for £10,083 and rent
£10,370. Usually, when a trifle is knocked
off for depreciation, there isn’t anything
left. In fact, there has often been less
than nothing; so that the co. owes £5OOO
on account of deferred rent and £6579 on
account of deferred interest. Also on
£lOO,OOO of pref. capital 4 p.c. dividend is
cumulative; and there is a dead horse of
£12,000 to be got rid of on that account.
Some years ago this particular dead horse
became so eloquent that the directors threw
out all but the bones. They “funded” the
debt, the understanding being that it would
be shovelled out at the rate of £5OO a year.
llow it is being shovelled out may be judged
from the fact that at the end of 1914 funded
dividends and interest (they were of course
to carry interest) amounted to £14,526. The
total is now £16,218. There are 260,000
ordinary shares which have been written
down from 20s. to 15s. To write them
down ss. seems to have been the directors’
little joke. The debentures are repayable
in 1924 ; or the co. can buy them up before
then at 110. That is another little joke.
The truth is that, without paying dividends
even on the pref. capital, the co. is not quite
holding its own. Here is a three-year com-
parison :
1913. 1916.
More or less liquid assets.. . . £15,572 £21,334
Liabilities (exclusive of debentures) . . 21,648 36,012
Excess liabilities .. £6,076 £14,678
If ordinaries, in those circumstances, take
a cheerful view of the future, they deserve
first prize for optimism.
* * * *
Stanmore Preserving Co., Ltd., Sydney,
jam manufacturers, fruit preservers, etc.
The co. began in 1914 with a deficit of
£9605, made up of goodwill, £8956, and pre-
liminary expenses, £649 :
—,
Pref. Ord. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. serves. Deficit.
£9605
1914.. £3693 £794 £l6OO £1299 -8306
1915.. 4571 1587 1600 1384 6922
1916.. 5390 1600 1600 2190 4732
The first Stanmore Preserving Co. was a
little private concern that was formed in
1906; and a few years later it had a capital
of £6OOO. Herbert Priestley looked after
the pounds; and a couple of Tates, practical
fruit-boilers, looked after the coppers. Early
in 1914 11. E. Pratten, who used to be con-
nected with Taylor Bros., became inter-
ested ; and a new co. was formed to build
something better than the little tin shed
which thus far had been the factory. To
provide the funds 20,000 8 p.c. pref. shares
were issued ; and 20,000 ordinaries were paid
for the business and net assets.
The first year was spent in building and
shifting camp, and the co. was just nicely
ready for the war ord,ers which then started
to pour in. Before the end of 1915 it had
“placed” 3,000,000 tins of jam; and the
directors now say: “The Stanmore jams
have given entire satisfaction to the Imperial
Government, and further large contracts
have been secured, upon which the co. is
operating.” This paper takes the directors’
word for it that the Imperial Government
likes their jam. It doesn’t know any
“Imperial” Government itself. But. it
does know that Billjim’s letters —especially
from Egypt—have made dreadful remarks
about “Imperial” jam, along with remarks
of quite another sort about the too-rare Stan-
more article.
The co. really wanted more than £20,000
of new capital to start with ; and by the end
of the first year it was £I4,SS3 iu debt.
Then the heavy war-orders fell in ; and. to
further strain the finances, tinplate and other
materials, including sugar, became rapidly
dearer. That meant much more money
sunk in the necessary stocks. By the end
of the second year the co. owed £31,003; and
this had moved up to £37,247 by the end
of last year. Several times the directors
have considered the issue of further capital,
but they have held off. It is the stock that
runs into the money: 1914. £12,655; 1915,
£28,025; 1916, £40,561. In ordinary cir-
cumstances you might wonder whether the
directors weren’t losing their heads ; but here
you have two reasonable explanations: (1)
high prices and (2) the fact that it is a long
way between the factory and the biggest
market. Altogether, then, recent figures are
quite abnormal; profit figures, perhaps, as
well as the others. The co. ought to do well; for
the market is as big almost as the world.
But don’t judge by what has been done
under the entirely unusual conditions —some
favorable, some unfavorable —of the past
couple of years.
The Praiiran and Malvern Tramways
Trust (Vic.) :
Net Amount Paid To Re- Re-
Profits. to Councils. serves. serves.
1910 .. £1,009 £1,009 £1,009
Premiums on Debentures . . 72 1,081
1911 .. 5,877 £3654 2,223 3,304
Premiums on Debentures .. 166 3,470
1912 . . 8,835 4164 4,671 8,141
Premiums on Debentures . . 49 8,190
1913 . . 11,099 4975 6,124 14,314
Discount on Debentures, £176 .. 14,138
1914 .. 10,678 2296 8,382 22,520
• Discount on Debentures. £6 .. 22,514
Net Loss Paid by
Councils on
Guaranteed Lines.
1915 .. 10,253 1977 12,230 34,744
AVritten off, £4326. . .. .. 30,418
Discount on Debentures, £ 7 .. 30,411
1916 .. 13,629 2172 15,801 46,212
This municipal trust got to business about
the middle of 1910. At that time only the
municipalities of Prahran and Malvern (both
“cities,” if you please) were interested.
Now cars also run in St. Kilda, Caulfield,
Kew, Hawthorn and city of Melbourne.
During 1914 the councils of the suburbs men-
tioned came to an agreement by which all
the lines operated by the Trust on behalf of
the councils were taken over as Trust lines,
subject to an indemnity against loss until
Sept. 30, 1916, in respect of the Caulfield
Extension lines. In the past two years under
that agreement Caulfield has paid out £5249
and St. Kilda £736. In the table the profits
are shown exclusive of these payments by
councils; and the payments to councils are
shown net.
At the beginning the Trust was financed
by the Melbourne Tramway Co., which lent
it £lOO,OOO at 4 p.c., on debentures issued at
par, and then £21,500 issued at 10s. p.c.
premium. This loan expired early in 1914.
The Commonwealth Bank subsequently came
into the business and is a large holder of
debentures. The Trust’s total liability is
now as follows :
Amount. Interest. Due.
£70,000 4J p.c. 1933
500,000 4| p.c. 1934
35,000 44 p.c. 1942
70,000 44 p.c. 1943
(Due to municipalities.)
20,185 4 p.c. 1941
28,591 4-J p.c. 1944
All except the first two are payable by instal-
ments, and the dates mentioned are the due-
dates of the last instalments. There is no
general sinking fund ; but in connection with
the big £500,000 loan floated early in 1914,
and known as Loan “D,” a special sinking
fund has been established. Subsequently,
when the Commonwealth Bank came in, it
required that 2 p.c. of the amount advanced
should be paid into the bank annually. This,
accumulated at compound interest, will ex-
tinguish the debt in 26| years. Apparently,
however, it is not incumbent upon the Trust
to pay this 2 p.c. out of profits. The bank’s
concern, of course, is. to get its money;
where it comes from is the Trust’s concern.
Perhaps 2 p.c. p.a. is a bit stiff, especially in
the early days of a line; but there ought to
be some sinking fund, anyway—the Trust
ought always to be doing something towards
making the lines its own, instead of really
Cohen’s. Down to the last couple of years
nothing whatever was done in this way; the
accumulations were practically all for
renewals. And because there were no
renewals worth mentioning the reserves grew
very fast. In one later year, however, the
fund was bitten into; and special war
expenditure (mostly payments to men on ser-
vice) affect the profits, and thus steady the
reserves.
Another way of putting the history of the
Trust would be as follows :
Expenditure
Revenue, (inc. Interest). Surplus.
1911 ..£26,314 £20,437 £5,877
1912 .. 37,576 30,212 “ 7,664
1913 .. 59,851 49,126 10,724
1914 .. 108,340 96,044 12,296
19.15 .. 121,016 110,493 . 10,523
1916 .. 151,121 135',887 15,234
And with that table this one may conveni-
ently be run in :
Length of Car Av. Revenue Working
Route Miles per Car Exes, per
Miles. Run. Mile. Car Mile.
1911.. 4.7 468,724 13.47 d. 8.51(1.
1912.. 7.2 705,551 13.22 d. 8.41 d.
1913.. 15.7 995,972 14.42 d. 9.56 d.
1914.. 23.0 1,781,515 14.59 d. 10.37 d.
1915.. 30.6 2,068,264 14.04 d. 10.04 d.
1916.. 32.1 2,590,692 14.0 d. 9.81 d.
In addition to the surplus on working
account there are earnings from interest;
for though the renewals fund is not invested
apart from the business, the business has
to pay the fund 4 p.c. Last year’s profit,
for instance, as shown in the first table,'is
arrived at this way
Surplus on working account ..£15,234
Renewals Fund interest . . • .. 1,163
Sinking Fund interest . . .. 143
Total .. .. ..£16,540
Less allowances made to BiU'im . . 2,911
Net profit .. .. £13,629
In addition councils had to part up £2172;
but that won’t be a permanent source of
revenue, even if the “Extension” doesn’t
pay. The undertaking to date has cost
just under £700,000, exclusive of stock in
hand ; and £15,000 a year is nothing out of
the way to put by for future renewals, without
taking the sinking fund into account at all.
It means only about £2 7s. Od. p;c. on the
capital actually borrowed. Nothing seems
plainer than that the Trust can’t afford to
work on a narrower margin. It is the
trouble with nearly all publicly-owned con-
cerns —there *is always the pressure to com-
pel them to give too much for the money.
London Stokes, Ltd., which bought a
men’s outfitting business .in Melbourne, and
started with various goodwill and other in-
tangible items representing £20,368 of the
capita]:—•
Writ- Towards Re-
ten ductionof
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
1911.. £26,368
1912.. Bp.c.= £4200 £3,093 23,275
£1666 added to goodwill items .. 24,941
1913.. 9,702 Bp.c.= 5600 £1596 2,506 22,435
1914.. 11,003 8 „ „ 5600 704 4,699 17,736
1915.. 15,132 9 „ „ 6300 645 8,187 9,549
1916.. 15,134 10 „,, 7000 604 7,530 2,019
Reserves.
1917.. 18,330 10 „ „ 7000 549 10,781 8,762
Or, if you like to include the building altera-
tion account and the leasehold account at
valuation, the reserves are £14,748. It is a
tale of remarkable success. The capital is
£70,000; and though £28,034 of that was
represented by goodwill, leasehold (at valu-
ation) and building additions on leasehold,
the co. has in six years put so much profit
back into the business that to-day it has in
book-debts, stock and cash no less than
£75,857, after providing for all liabilities.
And then it has its plant and fixtures to the
good. The items have moved like this: —
1912. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Sundry creditors . . £7,310 £3,062 £4,754 £5,410
Goodwill items . . 29,459 24,565 23,605 22,645
Sundry debtors . . 3,257 3,499 3,620 4,472
Stock . . . . 31,237 41,500 52,885 66,248
Plant and fittings.. 5,624 5,806 5,432 4,910
Cash, etc. .. ... 14,728 16,513 14,805 12,547
While the very small liabilities are even
smaller than they were five years ago, the
stock has been more than doubled, and is
now valued to within a few pounds of the
capital. Meantime a dividend averaging 0
p.c. has been paid. Three factors appear to
be responsible for the extraordinary profit.
(1) Cash trading. (2) The co. has no capital
(apart from what it has spent on the lease-
hold) locked up in real property. When a
co. has half or more of its capital invested
in city premises, it can’t expect to show a
big return. The security may no doubt be
better; but this isn’t a co. formed to invest
in city property —it is a trading concern.
(3) Management. Besides having a man
who knows the retail business up and down
as managing-director, it has one of the solid-
est accountants in the city as chairman and
a man who knows the wholesale rag trade
as his colleague. The maintenance of pro-
fits depends very largely upon the continu-
ance of such management. Apd, fortunately
or unfortunately, good managers are not
immortal. No doubt there are good man-
agers yet unborn. But the other fellow may
get them. That is the risk you must take
with a trading concern.
“Tekelo” from the Solomon Islands: —
Wild Cat (B. 26/10/’l6), reviewing the Solomon
Islands Rubber Plantation Co., said: “The bottom
having fallen out of the rubber boom, no more trees
have been planted ; but 891 acres are now growing
nuts.” Why? The Lord knows! Compare rubber
and copra. Rubber costs 9d. per lb. to produce in
Papua and Malaya. Add 33 p.c. to allow for more
expensive local conditions, and we get Is. per lb.
Tabulate:—-
Production Value Net Profit
per Acre. Cost, to Producer, per Acr e.
Rubber .. 3001 b. Is. per lb. 2s. per lb. £l5 0 0
Copra . . 12cwt. £8 per ton. £l7 per ton 5 8 0
My copra figures are those of a man looking after
his own estate. Level’s reckon copra costs them
between £9 and £lO per ton to produce. So where
those cos. that have from £40,000 to £lOO,OOO of
capital, and only 500 or 600 acres planted, are going


WRITE for BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be
obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
as
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
of
YOUR WILL.
Trust Funds now under the
Company’s control exceed
£12,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE. Manager.
SEPTIC TANKS.
Nuisance Eliminated. Power Produced Free.
A Modern Miracle.
'THE Walshaw Patent Process for Puri-
-1 fication of Sewage and the Walshaw
Patent Septic Tank can now be installed for
Public Authorities, Institutions and Private Houses.
Turns all sewage into gas, which can be used for
power or for electric lighting. Destroys all noxious
odors. Gives perfectly clean effluent.
For further particulars apply to
The Septic Gas Company of Australia, Limited,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King Street, S/dney;
and at Telegraph Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: City 4375. Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Negligible maintenance Co3ts are assured if you
specify British Thbmkm-Houston Direct and Alternat-
ing Current Generators for your power and lighting
supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators in opera-
tion in Australia than any other make. The reason
is reliability Write for further particulars and
quotations to the Australian General Electric Co.,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.—Aiivt.
St * * *
Knowledge is of two kinds. We know a subject
ourselves or we know where we can find information
upon it. Builders, mineowners, stationowners, etc.,
who have heard of the many merits of Adamax Roof-
ing, or who are desirous of learning more about its
many good points, should send to-day for a Free Copy
of the Adamax Booklet, “The Adamax Series.” It
is a neatly-designed booklet chockful of valuable
information upon Adamax Roofing and the other
Adamax lines. Mail your request to William Adams
& Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and
Adelaide. — Advt.
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
•‘The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
-:«■ * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the ideal pressure pipe,
is cheap to buy and to lay, and lasts indefinitely,
with practically no cost for unkeep. Catalogue free
upon application. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.
Ltd. (head office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Fac-
tories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; FoOtscray, Victoria; and
Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
The Hctton Coal Co. Ltd., 56 Pitt Street, Sydney,
have for sale a quantity of 37/16 and 37/12 Double
■ Armored Single-core Bitumen Cable for 600 volts
d.c., also 37/12 and 19/16 Single Armored Single-
core Bitumen Cable 600 volts d.c., particulars of
which they will be pleased to supply on application.
The above Cable is specially suitable for deep-sinking
and wet-mining.— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * # »
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
“Robey” high-class steam engines, earth-handling
and road-building machinery, “National” suction gas
and oil engines, modern conveying outfits, pumping
installations, stone-crushing plants, concrete mixers,
Nestable corrugated metal culverts. Specialised in
by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Head office: Circular
Quay, Sydney; and the Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — -Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars.- 11. -B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED,
insure in
Tl * 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital . 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
Branches in every Slate.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA & OUEEHSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 48 YOUNC STREET.
Directors:
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACIvELLAR,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman).
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL. Esq. R. M. PITT, Esq.
F. B. S. FALKINER, Esq.
Before making a Will or Settlement of pro-
pertv or appointing an Attorney write for book-
let giving the Company’s charges and setting
forth the advantages of appointing the Com-
pany to JOtTX MAIR. Manager.
to get their “fortunes” from beats me. No, there
is no champagne in cocoanuts, only plain, bro\Vn
beer.
People are dazzled with London copra prices. For
the two pre-war years copra averaged £lB per ton
in the Solomons. For the last two j'ears it has
averaged £l4 here. At moment of writing copra is
£4O in London and £l9 locally. What is the
remedy ? Co-operation, perhaps, but it can t come
yet.
We have been buoyed up in the past with the
belief that bigger prices would rule, owing to the
world washing itself more and eating margarine.
But the only prices that have risen so far have been
those for labor. Recruits cost £8 per head in
January, 1913: to-day they cost £l6, with a threat
of an early jump to £lB per head. All these
calamities do not make the big cos. so uncomfortable
as they do the smaller men. Levers, the soap people,
are in a position to pick up at the other end what
they lose at this. The Solomon Island Development
Co. is in the business to make cash for itself, but it
was projected in the first place to provide its
parent (8., P. and Co.) with certain freights for its
steamers, in view of possible future competition from
other shipping lines.
There are threats of a copra boom after the war.
Let investors study Solomon Island floats with their
eyes glued on the following points: —
Labor and copra prices. —Unless outside labor is
allowed to supplement the local supply, increased
competition will only mean that the enhanced cost ot
labor will balance any increase in copra prices.
Capitalisation. —Heavy capitalisation should be
shied at unless outside labor is allowed to come in.
As things are at present, cos. simply cannot get the
requisite labor to plant the area necessary to ensure
decent dividends on "big capital. Put it this way.
Granted the net return per acre is satisfactory, the
labor is not forthcoming to provide the turnover
required to pay the rosy divs. pictured in pro-
spectuses. ,
Length of waif.— Pictures are circulated showing
palms bearing hundreds of nuts at 44 years. True
enough—sometimes. But don’t build on that. 1 he
average palm takes from five to seven years to come
into bearing. Appreciable returns cannot be looked
for until the seventh or eighth year. Optimists
who blither about dividends within five years should
be chased.
These conclusions have been arrived at whilst
watching a block of scrub turn into a cocoa nut
plantation, and slowly climb towards maturity. I
have been told that I am “on a 1 of a good
thing.” I have offset the toil and sweat involved
against the figures produced, and fail to go fanti
with joy. People who discuss cocoanuts should put
ice on their heads. Rubber is looked upon as an
also-ran down here, yet on the face of it 1 would
swap a cocoanut estate for a rubber ditto any day ,
or, best of all, become a copra buyer in Sydney.
In dissecting the accounts of the Stan-
dard Fire and Marine (8/3/’l7) the fact
was overlooked that tin interim dividend
had been paid during the past year. There-
fore the profit was shown as £8026 and the
dividend as £6250, whereas the true figures
are £11,776 and £lO,OOO respectively. It
was a bad mistake, and there is no defence.
All hands responsible are fined 40s. or three
days.
* * *
It will surprise a good many people to
learn that the Commonwealth Oil Corpora-
tion property in the Wolgan i alley
(N.S.W.) is now again paying out at the
rate of £60,000 a year in wages and £->O,OOO
a year for stores, etc. The history of the
old C.O.C. is one long record of extrava-
gance, miscalculation and muddle. Nearly
a million and a half of money was spent;
but most of it was spent in doing the wrong
thing or doing the right thing in the wrong
place. When no more money could be
raised the co. found itself with retorts un-
suitable for handling the very rich shales
on the property, and a huge tunnel only
half completed into the Capertee Valley.
David Fell and Co. were then appointed
receivers in Sydney. They found they
could do practically nothing with the assets;
the only way out seemed to be to make an
attempt to provide suitable retorts. Mean-
time, in London, a scheme of reconstruction
was sanctioned involving the writing-off of
over a million of the capital.
John Fell, of a Sydney firm of oil-mer-
chants, then came into the business, and he
undertook “to build retorts which would
eventually re-establish the industry and place
it upon an economic business basis.” The
retorts were provided, and for some time
past large quantities of oil have been pro-
duced under an agreement by which Mr.
Fell undertook to work the concern for three
years, putting up most of the necessary capi-
tal himself. It has been and continues to
be a pretty tough job, however, partly on
account of keen foreign competition, partly
because the Inter-State Commission’s recom-
mendation of a bonus was never given effect
to, and partly because labor and other costs
have become more and more burdensome.
The development of the industry is therefore
still uncertain, and will remain so until
present conditions change.
Occidental. Cobar (N.S.W.), had its usual
half-yearly meeting lately. For the six months
it treated 6933 tons for 29880 z. gold, valued at
£12.669; hut as it cost about £14,000 to get,
there isn’t much turkey and champagne on
the shareholders’ table yet. A machinery
breakdown and the coal-strike were respon-
sible for a loss of two months of the time.
A new manager, A. S." Lilburn, was ap-
pointed last November, and in making a
special report to the shareholders on- Nov.
28 he said the usual nice things of the future
and found fault with practically everything
at present —except the mine. In a summary
he stated: “I consider the co. has a good
mine with an ample supply of ore, of payable
value, and it is only necessary to maintain
a constant output, increase the tonnage, im-
prove the extraction on lines mentioned, and
the directors can feel assured that profitable
results will follow.” But the same sweet
things have been written so many times
before that shareholders nowadays scarcely
wake up to listen. The reserves are esti-
mated at 65,000 tons worth from 40s. to 48s.
per ton, or two years’ crushing at 15,000 tons
a half-year. Lilburn thinks he can handle
that much.
* * * *
Frofits of the Carpathia (N.S.W.) for
last half-year are shown as £7O; but that is
hardly a fair way of putting it, as the cost
of mining 860 tons of milling ore in stock
at the end of the half-year was charged up.
There was already a credit balance of £3396,
put by to a dividend equalisation fund —-
£1791 from the half-year ended July 33,
1916, and the balance brought forward in
January of that year.
*****
Central Illawarra Coke and Coal Co.
(N.S.W.) has struck a 7ft seam with only
one clayband in a borehole south of Mount
Ivembla. The bore was put down three
miles from the outcrop, and the discovery of
such an extent of coking coal to the south is
highly important. The Hoskins firm, of
Lithgow and Sydney, is developing a large
coal area in the same locality.
T. J. THOMPSON.
Died last Saturday, aged 87, T. J. Thomp-
son, one of the fathers of the Sydney Stock
Exchange. The kindly old man with the
blue flower in his button-hole had been giv-
ing fatherly advice to investors for nearly
50 years. He had been 84 years in Aus-
tralia ; his father was a draper in business
in Pitt-street, and the son's first job was be-
hind the counter. His sons remain in the
sharebroking business.
Since it started its new plant on suppos-
edly lib. ground Y Water (N.S.W.) has
given its staff something to worry over.
Three runs have been recorded, but not one
has gone over fib. of tin oxide, so profits
aren’t being earned. Certainly it is given
out that the new plant is doing a bettor
yardage than was expected; but good yard-
age isn’t good tin. That, presumably, is the
reason why Moline ran up to do some
scratching on the tailings dump in order to
find out where the other ilb. is. A co. can’t
afford to waste quarter-pounds with tin at
£213. And it can still less afford to lose
quarter-pounds w T hen tin drops to £163. as
it may—though it doesn’t look as though it
will for a while.
* * * *
“Ore reserves are estimated at approxi-
mately 22,000 short tons, at a grade recover-
able by amalgamation of from 30s. to 325.
per short ton.” Thus N. E. Giblin, 8.E., in
liis first report on the Edna May Central.
Rough out the estimate this way; 22,000
tons at 325. = £35,200 gross return. Take the
tails as worth 9s. per ton. as per assay
results for the past six months, and £lO,OOO
can be added, making the total value of the
gold in sight £45,000. Deduct 225. per ton
for milling and mining, and put cyanide
charges and loss at ss. per ton. Thus £30,000
is mopped up. This leaves £15,000 profit in
sight for 60,000 shares of 10s. each. That
profit means ss. per share. As the market
price of scrip is 20s. the difference (155.) is
represented by faith in the next levels or by
a belief that the Consolidated bulge of stone
will meander into the Central at less than
450 ft. True, the Board has also £6OOO cash
in hand ; but the new cyanide plant and air-
compressor will mop that up and cause a bit
of the nest-egg supposedly hidden in the accu-
mulated dumps to disanpear.
Or work out the Edna Central position on
the records of the past. The co. put £7500
to the credit of working account, sold 9000
reserve 10s. shares at a premium of (sayl
£2500, and crushed 68.352 tons for gold
worth £83.717. The capital and the pro-
ceeds of the gold have gone—£ll,Boo of it on
plant, £950 on the main shaft, £9500 on
development, and all the. balance in wages,
stores, etc., except the cash in hand and 9s.
paid in divs. But even that watery record
does not deter the optimists on the Board from
declaring that appearances in the claim,
coupled with developments in the adjoining
mines, “justify great confidence in the
permanency and profitable prospects of the
company.” Does the man who got out this
screed claim that the Edna Deeps develop-
ments shows where or when the main Edna
shoot will make across the boundary into the
Central? Or is there Gd. worth of evidence
that the Consolidated find is more than a
local bulge in an otherwise low-grade reef?
Fortunately N. E. Giblin does not let
“bull” or any other market influence into his
mine reports. So he doesn’t give the mine a
lOoz. sample anywhere, and he puts the New
make of ore as worth 475. 6d. for 137 ft. to
the south and to ttie east 245. 6d. for 102 ft.
Beyond that the average is about 11s. per
ton, which won’t pay. All the same, there
must be something in the wind, or the crowd
that does it wouldn’t prop the stock so
readily whenever the 18s. mark is touched.
Melbourne-owned Mary Mac (W.A.) is in
need of money. The plant cost more than
had been estimated on account of the war,
and the prices of supplies and material have
advanced considerably. Owing to an intru-
sion the “25,000 tons of payable ore” about
which official reports had so much to say
have disappeared, and only a very limited
quantity can be shown for the heavy outlay
incurred in development. Had an expert
with a knowledge of the district furnished a
report the Board would not have fallen into
the error of imagining that 25,000 tons, or
anything like that quantity, would be avail-
able. An estimated 39,000 tons of slimes
stacked on the property are valued at
£20,000. but treatment costs will take a big
bite out of that.
# * * *
New Boddingtons (W.A.) have slumped.
Even the official announcement of the dis-
covery of a large reef in the bottom has not
influenced the market, and the trustful per-
sons who bought shares on the strength of
what was said in the prospectus are now
sorrowing. Knowing something about the
small, treacherous reefs of the locality. The
Bulletin urged caution at the time the
armful of rich specimens on. which the
flotation was engineered were exhibited < in
Kalgoorlie. Seeing the way things are going
the Golden Butterfly has hurriedly aban-
doned three adjacent blocks on which it
acquired an option while the boom-fires were
burning.
Some' Melbourne optimists have been in-
duced to take an interest in the Harbor
Lights, Gwalia (W.A.). Several option-
holders have had a go at this show in the
last 10 years, but all have retired hurt. The
Associated Northern did some drilling and
then left, and others who followed found
that the grade of ore and conditions of work-
ing did not promise success. The present
holders will probably pay for the same in-
formation.
After frittering away a good deal of cash
Golden Point (W.A.) has come to the con-
clusion, forecasted by The Bulletin, that
its Comet Yale option is valueless. When
the show was acquired it was said to have a
continuation of the Sand Queen shoot, but it
is alleged that when the 12 acres of ground
lying between it and the payable portion of
the Sand Queen reef were offered, the Board
lapsed into silence. Do shareholders know
anything about this?
General-manager Corbould, of Mt. Elliott
(Q.). which threatens to have its output of
copper stopped for want of coke, told the
Queensland Minister for Mines the other
day that he understood the shortage was
owing to exports. In any case, whether this
raw product of one of our most important
industries is being largely shipped away
or not, it seems certain that a new con-
sumer of considerable importance has come
into the local market. This is Sydney Per-
ries. Ltd. On account of the increase in
the price of coal this co. renewed its experi-
ments with the use of coke. They were so
successful, it is understood, that the output
of certain local gasworks has been secured.
This gas-coke is not suitable for smelting;
but it used to go to people who now have
to turn in other directions for their require-
ments.
* * * *
A recent message to The Bulletin about
the New Mount Lyell Consols was mangled.
This puts the facts as far as this paper can
ascertain them:—
The New Lyell Consols replaced the Lyell Consols,
which had worked out its Tasmanian mine. There
are in the New co. 200,000 paids and 300,000 con-
tribs. ; of the latter 150,000 have been underwritten
and about £7OOO is still available, lea vine; 150,000
shares in reserve. These carry a liability of 25., and
when issued will give £15,000 more working capi-
tal, less 3d. per share underwriting commission.
The co.’s property is in S. Aus., adjoining the
Wallaroo. Two lodes were located by thd drill, and
it was while crosscutting for these at the 250 ft.
level that the co. came on a body missed by the
drill. This body. Captain Hancock, of the Moonta
and Wallaroo, and Inspector of Mines Jones think is
the Wallaroo’s “Blue” lode. The two bodies cut by
the drill have yet to be reached. The management,
when it saw the end coming in Tasmania,, looked
round Australia for a promising show that wanted
capital for prospecting and development. It could
find nothing that looked, as good as this; and it is
satisfied now that it didn’t make a mistake.
f“Wild Cat” continued on page SJf.)


Under
Royal
Warrant
g
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsierk
lam
CHAMPACHt
o»arl£snpidsie*
Reims
*3
PELUSSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
xosic
CO
ALLAN
or/
LT 0
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/1
Norwegian Cradle Song — More/
Meditation - - Morel
A Resolve - - Kotlar
Question - - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blore
ALLAN S. 261 Collins St.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (SI CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, March 26, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
This time the date is a certainty. The
Stricklands pack up the pram, and the kin-
dergarten in May. After all, they’re going
by the Canadian route, and will see the snow
melting on the. Rockies.
Another departure is also imminent—and
Premier Holman's suit-case is being dusted
for the trip. He goes to England in May,
and will spend about four months whisper-
ing soft promises into the ear of Cohen.
One of the first batch of V.A.D.’s to be
sent to London mentions in a letter to a
girl-friend that she has been to our old
friend Lord Beauchamp’s place, Madresfield
Court, to see the new baby, who was born
last Christmas Day. This is Beauchamp’s
third son. He lias also four daughters. Not
a bad record for the noble pair who were
married as recently as 1902.
The same letter-writer mentions the
announcements of the London winter
fashions. “Dainty chemises for street wear,”
announces one journal. Reminds one of the
awful dreams most of us have experienced
of being in a public place at midday clad
in a bangle. Then there’s the “Conciliation”
boot. Leather being almost forbidden save
for military needs, the Conciliation has only
a tiny toecap of patent leather. The rest of
(lie boot (except, of course, a sole) is of
cloth.
Veteran Sam McCaughey’s infant great-
nephew had to bear a douche of cold water
in the Fog in bleak January. Mamma is
Airs. Cave-Clark, with a hubby at the Front.
Godpa Lieut. Frank Chesney, of Rosalie
station, Darling Downs, was attending to his
business at Salonika. So Major Cunning-
ham saw that the name Gordon Chesney was
duly mentioned during the incantations. A
lunch at Hyde Park Hotel, the tables gar-
nished with white blooms, settled the busi-
ness.
Last week’s private cables from France
t<dd of the death of Butler Wood, of Kirri-
billi, who went away with the sth Artillery
Brigade as a lieutenant, but later on won pro-
motion in a howitzer battery. “But.,” the
wealthy son of a squatting father, lately
dead, was a line horseman and a cheerful
young officer much favored by his men. He
bad been on leave in London, and was killed
within a week or so of his return to the mud.
Killed at the Somme, Owen Tuck, who left
las job as senior classical-master at The
King’s School, Parramatta, to wear a
private’s uniform last year. Tuck, who had
a first-class Oxford degree, left Australia as
sergeant, but had climbed up to a lieutenancy
in France.
Frank Leverrier, K.C., found it impossible
to tell the Thrift-ladies the exact relation be-
tween Science and Industry this week. So
his name melted from the programme. But
H. Y. Braddon, H. E. Pratten, Prof. Irvine
(who hands out stiff doses of Economics in
our _ ’Varsity), Ruth Beale, and Meredith
Atkinson are on the stump. March 30 is
the last date on which you can get a hint
that may reduce your indignant family to
tears and dripping.
Another Military Cross. This one goes
to Captain W. S. Bone, of our Army, who
was sworn into khaki on the first day of
war, and had a hand in the Rabaul fuss be-
fore stepping over to' France to see what
was doing. Mrs. Bone, who lives at Longue-
ville, is accepting congratulations in the
proper spirit.
Artist Rupert Bunny, one of Australia’s
greatest brush-men, writes, with frozen
hands, from Paris. “In rooms not heated
by the scanty handful of coal that ordinary
citizens can beg or borrow, the temperature
is_ seven degrees below zero. Outside it is
15 deg. below. We have had an Arctic winter,
and, so far as I know, the best chance of
getting almost warm is in the schools, so
all the artists are working there. Goodness
knows where they get thet coal, or how, but
they have it.” Hypersensitive and apt to
brood over spiteful criticism (the obscure
are never maligned, if he could but remem-
ber it!). Bunny writes bitterly of having
been called a deserter from Australia. “Yet
in Paris I am known everywhere as ‘Aus-
tralian Bunny.’ From France and Rome I
have had all the warmest encouragement—
very little in London since Millais and
Leighton passed out. Poynter, the present
R.A. President, has refused some of my
work which was not only hung in the famous
International Exhibition in Rome a few
years ago, but was singled out for praise
by the greatest art critics in Europe. So I
cannot find a place to-day in London, where
Australian artists abound and are not called
deserters.”
After five months’ incessant hard work for
tbe American Red Cross in Paris, the deli-
cate Bunny broke down. He refused to be-
come a naturalised French citizen, the only
bar to certain national commissions. Yet the
sensitive skin quivers still at the word
"deserter.” On March 15, by request, he
gave a one-man exhibition in the Georges
Petit Gallery. Gustave Geoffery, one of the
men that count in Europe’s Art circles,
offered to write the preface to the catalogue.
Perhaps, later, we shall get a copy in Aus-
tralia.
The Roumanian Miss Egresitz. who was
here last winter, is now teaching foreign
tongues in a Methodist Girls’ School in the
Malay States. It is a big academy with 200
pupils, partly supported by the Government,
otherwise by the American Mission. “We
prepare candidates for the Cambridge
(Eng.) University,” she says. “Though
three of the teachers belong to the Mission,
the others are, like myself, only common
mortals.” In Kuala-Lumpur, 600 feet above
the sea, architecture in the Byzantine style
faces streets that look as if housemaids had
just dusted them. “Malay bullock-carts and
a passing show of gorgeous Chinese and
Malay glad-rags, with Europeans bumping
past in rickshaws, make a vivid picture. Also
there is rain! This is the season for it. So
much of the railway line has been washed
away. The richest man in the Malay States,”
concludes the lady from Bucharest, “died
yesterday and left 27,000,000 dollars. Of
this 1| million was invested in the British
War Loan. It sounds like fiction, but this
Crcesus was a Chinese who began life as a
coolie.”
When the 2nd D.A.C. committee met to
consider final details of its tent at the
Show, hon. sec. Mrs. Ballantine made some
remarks about thieves. There were bat-
talions that lost (I think) eight dozen spoons
last year. So a night-watchman is one of
the exes, this year.
Australian authorities in Egypt snatched
thousands of pairs of socks from the burn-
ing. Don’t start, Arini. Sister Susie sent
too many to the heated desert. The surplus
reached 81,000; and when distracted O.C.’s
in France were trying to keep their men in
reasonably dry footgear, that A.I.F. sur-
plus was handed over. In Egypt men were
actually burning these comforts; as they
couldn’t stow extras away. “Send your
tinned stuff, fruit, vegetables, boiled lollies
and cigarettes to your own brigade or bat-
talion, and label it so that the boys know
you did send it,” said Mr. Budden to the
D.A.C. dames. “But don’t try to conserve
your socks and warm clothing.” It was upon
the D.A.C. that the War Chest committee
urged more concerted action ; but there’s no
reason why other more exclusive comforts-
dames shouldn’t listen.
The Vagabonds’ Club, having done so
much for the patriotic hat, might now do a
little for itself by putting a polish on its
productions. It needs the help of a good-
natured professional to give its stage business
a lift and cast an eye over the grease-paint
department before the show. With £lOOO
already earned for local war-funds, it started
for its second thou, with “What would a
Gentleman Do?” Ruby Coxhead. Hugh D.
Jennings and Peter Egan were in the lead
at Saturday’s performance. The cash goes
to the Fire Brigade’s Red Cross fund.
Dorothy Davenport’Hill, a Neutral Bay
charmer, accepted the usual token from Syd-
ney F. Harvey the other evening. Excuse
me if I mention the grand-daddy of the
penny stamn, Rowland Hill; but the girl is
his great-grand-niece, or something of the
kind. Dorothy was in white shimmer, with
clouds of tulle billowing over the train.
Bridesmaidens Violet Graham and Dorothy
Walford, in blush pink, had the latest notion
—silver lace caps—on their heads. Refresh-
ments at the Australia, and then Jenolan
Caves for two.
Yvonne Cliarvin, the slender lady who
teaches the right way with a piano at the
Conserve torium, is back from a long holiday.
She meant to have a pleasant outing and
return from Noumea with her husband, Cap-
tain Cliarvin, of the Pacifique. But he,
desolate sailor, had unexpectedly to spend
six weeks of grass-widowhood in Sydney
while the Pacifique had an overhaul in dock.
Stuck fast in Noumea for lack of a craft to
bring her home, the French-Australian did
the usual thing—organised a concert for the
benefit of their men at the Front.
The Trench Mortar folk have joined the
Comforts Funds struggle. Can’t you hear
your last threepence fall in the till? The
McMillan dame opened their show in St.
James’s. In a hall crowded to suffocation,
the übiquitous Budden talked socks and the
Cheero girls took the stage for song and
dance. Mrs. E. Mitchell was hon. organiser,
and hon. sec. Mrs. Mackay mentioned in a
soft whisper that the Trench Mortar Com-
forts baby was eight weeks old.
The Palace Theatre was crowded to the
keyhole for the' matinee to help the Went-
wo'rth Free Kindergarten. This has a
building debt that is going to melt when
£3UO (or not far off} passes into the
treasury from the Palace show. Mrs. Hugh
Mclntosh had such hefty workers as
Mrs. Ferrari Passmore and Mrs. Connolly
to push the show through. Mrs. Wilkinson,
another strenuous lady help, was one of the
bidders for a huge rose-bowl, given by little
Mrs. Shimizu, who beamed in a box when
the china brought nearly £4O. All the
bidders, including John Mackay, handed it
back to the auctioneer, Barry Lupino.
Before putting it up again, Barry expressed
his joy by turning a Catherine-wheel over a
grand piano. Minnie Love gurgled sweetly
about a Broken Doll, and Ethel Cadman
flashed a fine set of teeth when her turn
came. All the theatres “lent” somebody, and
the show was a topnotcher.
The Curnow-Earp wedding occurs this
week. The bride is a fair-haired daughter of
George Earp, M.L.C., of a Newcastle firm.
The ’groom has done his bit at the Front.
Vera Cree and her shepherdess, Ada Gee,
reached London without a war-time dip in
the sea. The girl is studying under Leonard
lies at the Royal Academy. He’s the man
who rounded Ella Caspers’s velvet voice.
Miss Gee is working for her A'.R.C.M. under
Hubert Parry, chief of the Royal College of
Music.
Leslie Platherly, a lieut. in the R.N.IL, a
son of W. Hatherly, of Newcastle (N.S.W.),
stepped out in London lately to the tune of’
the Wedding March. The bride is an Eng-
lish bud, Muriel Yardley, of Birkenhead, the
place where they count the wharves by the
mile.
Here is one of the enthusiasts of the N. S.
Wales Women’s Horticultural Guild —Miss
Marcia Brace. An Englishwoman of inde-
pendent means, she likes Australia so much
that with the exception of occasional jaunts
to her native drizzle she has lived on this
side for the last eight years or more. Talk
to her about chickens, cauliflowers or any
other kind of blooms, and she’ll answer back
in suitable terms. Gardening and the out-
door life have called her since she was a
youngster. In Eng-
land she took a
certificate which
gives her profes-
sional status
amongst bulbs and
seedlings. Chick-
ens are a later
hobby. If you
mention Rhode
Island Reds—she
owns a poultry-
farm in the Gran-
ville hinterland—
she’ll describe their
uttermost feather.
Miss Brace lec-
tures in this Thrift
week by special re-
quest. But she’s
not prepared to
draw any hard and fast lines 05 say where
Thrift ends and Mean Habits begin.
The Brian Pockley memorial window
was unveiled by Anglican Archbishop
Wright on Thursday. The young doctor was
the first Australian commissioned officer
killed in this war, being shot while attend-
ing to the wounded in New Guinea at the
landing there in 1914. Artist Norman
Carter has deftly worked the modern battle-
field incident into glass for the chapel of
the Church of England Grammar School.
St. George is shown in one light and the
other _ has St. Luke, as “the beloved
physician,” attending to a wounded soldier.
It is a complete all-Australian job, done
with the skilled co-operation of glass-painter
F. Tarrant.
The Returned Soldiers’ Society, started by
Svdney Maorilanders, continues to flourish.
At the recent annual meeting Owen Cox
was invited up to the chair; and the promise
of a suite qf furniture for the forthcoming
M.L. Club was the first sign of his active
interest. The Gould-Smitli lady and Miss
Parker are again secretaries. ' Lately the
wind has been raised by concerts held on the
steamers coming from and going to Ward’s
land. Judging by the results it has been
almost a gale.
Mosman Public School is giving a lead.
The first three recruits obtained by the
school (old boys preferred), over 21 in years,
are to be insured for £2OO and the pre-
miums paid up till six months after the war
ends. In addition, the youngsters of the
school guarantee to keep these special
knights well supplied in all the etceteras a
soldier looks for on the other side. Any
offers ?
A Sydney woman writer, who .prefers to
be anonymous, has broken out in a booklet
of verse. Proceeds go to the Y.M.C.A. War
Fund. “Rhymes at Random” are worth the
bob.
Ren6 Maxwell, a young Sydney song-bird,
got quite a large helping of butter from the
usually chilly critic in the Morning Post
(London). The affair was a Sunday con-
cert in the Royal Albert' Hall.
"Daddy hong-legs - ’ Waldron, his family
and suite are inhabiting Esclaroy, the Wil-
liam Sandford home ou Bellevue Hill, during
their sojourn at this port. The same roof
sheltered John McCormack and his train
when they were here a while ago.
A Duntroon boy writes me that the
Soudan donkey, mentioned a week or two
ago, died of exposure in July, 1914, through
straying from her stable on a cold, frosty
night. Mrs. Bridges (now the General's
widow) found the body next day, and it was
buried near the riding-school at the college.
“By the way,” he adds, “it is not generally
known that Jenny had a foal, born on the
voyage to Australia. The youngster
worked in the Sydney Botanic Gardens pull-
ing a lawn-mower for some time, but came
to an untimely end.”
The George Perrins gave a tea-party at
the Wentworth to say good-bye to daughter
Amy, monologue artist and nice girl. She
is off to the Malay States, where T. M. Phil-
son will be waiting on the shore. There was
music and a song or two —Eileen Mullen
warbled of red roses —with subdued feminine
purrs over Amy’s diamond ring.
From one of our Billjim brothers: -
It isn’t only our beautiful nursing sisters that
show our youngsters a fine tenderness. Next to me
there is a kiddie who enlisted at 17 and isn’t much
more now —a nit e, clear-eygd, clean-faced boy. The old
barber came his rounds yesterday, and the boy had
one of his first shaves. A few sweeps of the razor and it
was done. The weary lad put his hand under his
pillow and held up his little hoard of silver. “Help
yourself,” he said. “May I?” replied the kindly
old chap. “Then I’ll take this.” And he stooped
over our boy and kissed him on the lips.
Members of the Cavell Memorial Fund
Committee are going to take turns behind
the counter at 259 George-street. It is the
latest venture in the cake and jam trade.
On April 10 St. Vincent’s Hospital starts
a week’s campaign for its lean treasury.
Among other forms of attack there’s to be a
matinge at one of the J.C.W. theatres.
Carleon, at Bellevue Hill, for many
years the home of the C. B. Fairfaxes, is
now inhabited by the T, PI. Kellys, who have
just finished a three years’ rustication at
Bowral.
“Rosna’s” latest London tale of the Senti-
mental Bloke: —
On January 27 Dorothy, the eldest damsel of one
of the Melbourne Lempriere families, was married
to Frank Debenham, who is a majah in the Oxford
and Bucks Light Infantry. Day before that George
Irving, of Westralia, a captain in the Rifle Brigade,
married a nice doctor’s daughter (or a nice daughter,
anyway) named Olive Andrews, at Elstree, with the
bride’s bishop-uncle to see that all was shipshape.
On February 3 the Bishop of London firmly tied the
knot for Marjorie .Lawford, of the Bathurst elan ; she
married the Rev. H. R. B. Morgan, vicar of Windmill
Hill, Bristol, formerly chaplain to Mr. All;ins in
France. On February 6 Miss Yuille of Melbourne,
who has been war-nursing in Egypt, said all the
necessary things at Brompton Church, in the pre-
sence of D. Hume Turnbull, who is a son of the late
J. J. Turnbull, of Toorak. Also on January 31 Lydia
King, of Orange, became Mrs. H. G. Carter, her
benedict being a son of the 11. J. Carters, of Wah-
roonga.
Maoriland also had a word with Hymen. In Glas-
gow Eric Aubrey Hawkes Whitcomb, of the Christ-
church family, now a lieut. in the R.F.A., married
Nancy Templeton Young, of East Kilbride. At Hen-
don meantime John Rutherford Patterson, of Dunedin,
was shackled to Lucie Spencer; and at Brompton
Oratory, Mona Levin, one-time of Wellington, be-
came Mrs. J. D. C. Hawkins, bridegroom being a
captain in the R.F.A. and son of a brigadier-general.
Small, precipitous millinery is holding its
own with the wide flat hats of the new
autumn. The diminutive headgear turns
sharply off the face, in imitation of North
Head, and there’s a small veil to break the
fall to the nose. Pancake, crowns —-very flat
—with trimming gummed on, have come
along with a rush. You’ve got to look out
that they don’t go off in the same way, fur
the wide brims catch every squall.
Now that quite incompetent young house
maids can get from ISs. to £1 a week a sub-
urban dame who pleaded for a help at His.
asked why the steady increase in Diary
Jane’s demands. “Well, it’s this way,” said
that mistress of the situation. “I’m getting
my little sister taught the piano, and my
boots alone cost 275. 6d. a pair-—it’s hard
times for me!” “And for me,” sighed Mrs.
Subbubs, who wears shoe leather —half-soled
and frequently heeled—at about half the
money. Yet, I don’t know. Perhans merely
Mary earns more than her mistress. And if
she does, why shouldn’t she get it?
Beatrice Harraden and Elizabeth Robins,
the English novelists, are running a library
and ivaste-paper depot in a military hospital
entirely staffed by women. Our own Red
Cross can afford to brag about waste-paper.
It has taken £5BO cash for “waste” and
calendars during the past ll.months.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


PROGRESS!!
m
fc'
#
air
jpwpi
M
r#
es
i
-4
**
IS MAINTAINED ONLY BY UTILISING THE HIGHLY EFFICIENT.
THIS IS WHY MESSRS. FARHER & CO. INSTALLED
The First Complete Installation in Australia
designed and carried out under the supervision oj
X RAY
Messrs. A. C. F. Webb and B unless ,
o 7
Consulting Engineers, Cuhvulla Chambers.
REFLECTORS TO PERFECT THE WINDOW ILLUH (NATION.
AGENTS:
&
A
0
0
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. ot Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Etd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Clias. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Etd., Hay
Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Cnhehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie
Street.
‘Mazda House,
TELEPHONE—
CITY 3510 lines).
Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, Sydney.
“Mazda House,” Cr.
TELEPHONE—
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
Queen & Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Klectrical Jfc Engineering
Co. Etd., Auckland, Christchurch, Ounedin and
Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Till lock At Co., JAd., Launceston;
Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQnarie Street, Hobart.


ar m err
Our way of giving Correct Clothes Service is acknowledged by
all wearers of distinctive garments. Style that expresses
personality, and service that satisfies, will give you the desire
to wear Fanner’s Clothes always. We mention: —
PR93. Special-value medium-weight Rough Serge Suit,
guaranteed Indigo Dye. Two-button Model, soft roll Collar,
new Lapel, centre seam and vent. Vest, medium opening,
four Pockets. Trousers smartly cut; side and hip Pockets,
Cuff Bottoms. PRICE 75/-
Other values. PRICES 65 /-, 90/-
Men’s R.M. Clothing, Ground Floor, Market Street.
PITT, MARKET (SL
GEOROE STREETS,
SYDNEY
sdg
Wide Recognition
of
Our Distinctive Values
in
Made-to-Measure
Suits
follows naturally on our
Resourcefulness in
obtaining
BETTER FABRICS.
8.2931
Bright-hued Fabrics of Fresh and
. Pleasing Patterns: Indigo
Blue Serges of Pre-War
Dyes
m 75/-, 84/-. 105/-
And Higher Grades at other Prices.'
Ready for Service Suits
All tailored equal to Custom Made,
At 70/-, 75/-, 84/-
Riding Breeches
in Whipcords & Saddle Tweeds,
with Buckskin Strappings.
CUT BY MEN WHO KNOW.
- 631- ~
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE ST. 1 i MELBOURNE.
THE MAN’S STORE.
ORDER BY MAIL.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, March 26, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Prahran Red Cross Carnival started
with beat of drum on Saturday afternoon.
State Governor Stanley had swallowed a nice
speech beforehand, and when the time came
to orate he went up like a balloon in praise
of the work that is being done by the
Prahranese. Lady Stanley sat alongside his
Ex. on the platform and looked as pretty as
a flower in black with fine muslin petals
turned back from her chin and a large pearl
in either ear. Mrs. Young wore a pale face
and a gold bird in her black hat. Mayor
Embling was loaded with every available
bit of the local fur, chain and lace. His chest-
nut-haired wife supported a flat pale-lemon
hat; and a fearsome company of neighbor-
ing mayors and their womenfolk dressed the
stage and said a line or so apiece. The
grey-haired Miss Abrahams, whose name is
always on hospital-ward donations, had a
seat in the background. Several nurses in
white brightened the stage. Genthelp Conant
looked most lugubrious as he listened to the
speeches; the hall was a sea of pretty girls
and he was “skied” and silenced amongst
the talking mayors.
All the stall-helping girls were uniformly
dressed in cunningly-draped gowns of Dutch
blue, dull red and orange, and their hair
was bound in handkerchiefs of Dutch blue
and white. Even the small girls, who were
told off with sweets-baskets, were colored
miniatures of the bigger girls. The riot will
rage for a week.
Baronet Rupert Clarke is steaming home
with his medical discharge in his kitbag,
after more than a year’s work at the Front.
The good sport was not too fit and hardly
young enough for the job; but he scorned
the idea of a light Red Cross billet and did
his bit as pluckily as any 30-year-old. Fever
knocked him out of action at last.
All the Ross Munro clan (they squat
heavily in Bananaland) streamed down to
Melbourne to welcome home their son and
brother, who struck trouble while flying. He
looks none the worse for his active service
except for an honorable scar in the middle
of his forehead. The family put up at the
Oriental and held high jinks to welcome
him and his little English bride. Her first
name is Betty.
When the boys of Melbourne Grammar
School rolled into assembly last Thursday to
take the oath of allegiance to Acting-Chief
Girdlestone, Herring, the school captain,
climbed on to the platform laden with fare-
well trifles for the departing Franklin, who
is leaving to cane the Huns out of France.
The boys’ parting gifts were a special brand
of wrist watch, a pair of field-glasses, a
pocket camera and a siLer cigarette-case
just the size of a tunic pocket. The grati-
fied Head, finding he had no words and no
voice, got young Herring to thank the boys.
And didn’t they lift the roof with cheers!
Maude Harvie, the enthusiast who gave
the Purple Cross movement its first push in
Melbourne, engineered a crowded tea-party
for horse-lovers the other afternoon. The
administrators of the Purple Cross funds
claim a record of cut-to-the-bone economy,
and they are now asking, at the point of
their balance-sheet, for £20,000. They want
to start a horse-hospital in France, where
the native Australian gee-gee will get all the
home comforts he deserves.
Before the Australian Wireless Corps sailed
away, some 12 months ago, Sergeant George
Thompson had some valuable books stolen.
He was in the habit of giving lectures on
wireless theory to the boys of the unit, and
was trying to purchase more text-books in
Melbourne when he came across one of his
own in Cole’s secondhand department. That
set him inquiring, and he found they had
been purchased from a man.in uniform. Old
King Cole himself was shortly on the scene and
gave the sergeant not only his own treasured
books, but the run of the whole “wireless”
stock. The unit has done good work in
Mesopotamia, and that’s how the old book-
man did his bit towards it.
Major Hurst has been made a lieut.-
colonel. He is a clever and enterprising
Australian who was sent to Aldershot before
the war to study heavy gunnery. Then he
came back to Australia and took a lot of
heavy ironmongery away with him. The
news of the promotion comes from France.
Mrs. Mackworth (late Leonie Peterson)
is having—well, not too dull a time in
Egypt. She is one of the officers’ wives
who have been there since the earliest fight-
ing and has endured two Egyptian summers
to be within coo-ee of her husband. Mack-
worth now has short furlough and they have
gone wandering into Abyssinia or some-
where for a holiday. Leonie is all right
in Cairo because the latest demigod sent to
Egypt by Great Britain is a cousin to her
tall soldier.
From “Rosna,” in London: —
Dr. Francis Mueeke, Ada Crossley’s S. Aus.-born
husband, has been over on leave after strenuous
work with the R.A.M.G. He has been out at the
sundry Fronts since the early days of the war, and
now wears a lieut.-col.’s crown and star. Ada
meanwhile sings to wounded Anzacs and Bilzacs
in hospital, and when they are convalescent has
them to tea and introduces them to the gum-trees in
her garden.
The Anzac Fair at Selfridge’s on Australia Day
captured about £4OO for the useful Anzac Buffet.
Considering that the thing was rushed together in a
few weeks, the result is Al. Among various
useful and decorative articles offered for sale was
a Zeppelin engine, quite a good one as white ele-
phants go, but not to be recommended as a family
pet. As the Buffet entertains and feeds over 5000
of the boys weekly, all gratis, it needs more cash
than it has got. At the A.N.A. Corroboree at the
Connaught rooms on the same festival night, the
girls of the youngest army, or as many of them
as could get away from hospitals and troopships,
were the guests of the Australian Colony in N’Yark.
A musical engagement, just announced, is that
of Olive Bassnett, who used to lift her fine voice
at the Adelaide Conservatorium, to George Pearce,
pianist, of the same city, now with the A.I.F. He’s
the son of a parson at Brighton (S.A.). The lady
an’d her mother and her sisters have been for some
years in London and are now looking for a chance
to slip home, the singer girl having captured a
licentiateship and other honors at the Royal Academy.
At moment of writing a younger sister, Dorothy, is
being married to another South Aus. warrior, Alan
Reid. Dorothy is in the War Office (where the
she-minions are divided into Temporary Ladies and
Permanent Women), and she is going to continue
her job while she is needed and her Benedict is at
the Front. The Bassnetts’ Anzac son has a commis-
sion in the 8.E.F., and is big-game hunting in
Mesopotamia.
Norman Brookes’s proposed purchase of
the South Yarra Bodycombs’ humpy fell
through, so the tennis king has bo’ ght up
the Alfred Leveys’ domicile. Its reglorifica-
tion is, however, adjourned for the present,
as it is leased for a paying guesterie. Mean-
time the Emmertons have lent daughter
Mabel a more modest abode in Walsh-street
until husband Norman gets back from his
Red Crossing.
ITALIAN
GRAND OPERA
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S,
“IL
TROVATORE .”
De Revers in
tragic mood.
Mrs. Glenloth Peter gave an Australia
party before bolting for her country home.
Mrs. Stapely and Mrs. Sternberg and a jolly
group of Bananalanders, including the widow
Clifton, were among the guests.
A local fashioneer notes
There is much less in skirts than there has been
recently, and if war frugality continues we may look
for continuous diminution.
Just as well. After 30 we did wander away
from the Milo ideal.
Several women are making a strenuous
effort to raise funds for the Foundling Home
in Berry-street, East Melbourne. Mrs. Fan
Dango Mackay intended to have a fete at
her home, but hubby Sam Mackay hurriedly
offered a donation of £lOO to be rid of the
disturbance. So Mrs. Geoffrey Syme has
offered her house and garden for the show,
and Lady Stanley will probably go out and
say the opening incantations in the third
week in April.
Besides conducting miserable strays to
the death chamber, the Lost Dogs’ Home
receives paying guests. This part of the
business occasionally leads to trouble. Some
Melbourne people hired a kennel flat for
their adored mastiff while they went holi-
day-motoring. Before they departed. there
was a tearful discussion about food. “Dear
Lion” was used to this and that titbit and
must get it or he would die of grief and
stomach-ache. The chief attendant listened
with some impatience. “All are fed alike!”
he said—“the very best of horseflesh and
the best dog-biscuits.” No entreaties could
persuade him to promise more for the
fatted pet, and the motorists left, dazed
with grief. During their absence Lion
became acquainted (through a fence) with
a bulldog lodger, and as the fence wasn’t
300 ft. high, Bully sailed over and knocked a
lot of stuffing out of the star boarder, whose
owners returned to find their darling with
punctures in his nose and one tooth loose.
A woman dentist-vet. was called in and
repaired the family idol; but his worshippers
are still threatening to make trouble.
The William Baillieus’ Toorak place
buzzed with a flapper frivol last Friday
night, when son Tom, who is off to the
Front, was frantically farewelled by youth-
ful fox-trotters, including a soldierly group
of old schoolmates. Di Gilio’s matchless
fiddle squeaked out the final two-step at the
chill hour of two.
Dora, the Reggie Weigalls’ attractive
second daughter, has had her turn with
appendicitis, and is sending news of com-
plete recovery to her medico fiance, Hilary
Carlisle. He has just finished his term
of hospital after being wounded in the
trenches.
The Willie Grey Smiths’ only son, Lieut.-
Commander Jack, was washed overboard and
drowned last week. He had a delightful
personality and was the idol of his parents
and sisters.
Leslie Walford and his bride, pretty Dora
Alexander, have arrived in Melbourne from
Sydney. Dora is eagerly displaying a most
expensive trousseau; but the bridegroom
wears his usual nonchalance, as if marriage
were an everyday occurrence. *And when
you come to think of it, so it is.
A young Victorian took his mother by sur-
prise a few days ago and came into this
sunny world behind an impromptu screen of
coats and vests put up by some kindly sewer-
age men who were working on the road close
by. I regret to say that the sudden emer-
gency stampeded all the members of my own
s ? x . within call. Do you remember that
plaintive old song with the line, “I was born
on a Friday when my mother wasn’t at
home”?
Sister Adelaide’s assertions :
A Chamber of Commerce Conference and a Thrift
Campaign thrust themselves upon our attention
during- the week. The Thrift Campaign, organised
by the League of Honor, is a special appeal to
women, and was emphasised at two public meetings
at the Colton Hall on Thursday. Lady Galway pre-
sided at one and Mrs. Nutter Thomas (the Anglican
Bishop’s wife) at the other. The Governor at the
first roll-up led a discussion on abstruse commercial
and financial problems, which were beyond my com-
prehension, but I gathered that they meant war to
the bowie on German goods. On Monday evening the
Mayor and Mrs. Isaacs held a reception in the Town
Hall, at which the visiting delegates to the Commerce
Conference were chief guests.
Pte. Donald Kerr, a lawyer who won the Military
Medal at Pozieres, is home again. He was decorated
for leading 13 parties of stretcher-bearers to some
wounded machine-gunners who were actually in the
same trenches as the Germans. That was on a
Tuesday, and the injured were not all got to then-
own lines till the following Saturday. The South
Australian was recommended for honors by practically
every officer of the battalion who was in the trenches
at any time between August 12 and 15.
Mrs. Barton, who was married to the doctor of
the Osterley just before that ship left Melbourne, and
was stopped at the West by the embargo on women
and children travellers, has passed through on her
way back to Sydney. She intends to make for
America unless an easier way to England is opened.
An aviation accident has resulted in the death of
Dennys Fowler, son of the' late James Fowler.
Another R.F.C. man, Captain R. G. Hopwood, has
been reported missing since August last. He was
A.D.C. here when war broke out, and left promptly
to rejoin his regiment, subsequently getting a trans-
fer to the Flying Corps.
Dr. Gertrude Halley, who came here from Tas-
mania some time ago as medical inspector of schools,
has resigned, after doing some uncommonly good work
for the State.
Officially this year’s Easter is to be extended, and
Tuesday has been gazetted a bank holiday, so that
overworked clerks may get some of the rest they
need after the strain of the last couple of years.
Josiah Symon, K.C., has been made a vice-president
of the Royal Colonial Institute; he is the only S.
Australian to achieve the position. Samuel Griffith,
George Reid and ex-Prime Minister Deakin are the
other Australians on the V.P. list.
Died at Athelney, on Friday, Alfred Hughes, for-
merly manager of Kars station, in the Broken Hill
district, and brother of the late 11. W. Hughes, of
Booyoolie station.
How is this for the weaker vessel ? Merle Diener,
aged 16 and daughter of the captain of the Merle,
which recently sank in Lake Alexandrina, took the
wheel from her father while the other members of the
family were being transferred to a barge, and stuck
to it all through the storm and while the steamer
was actually sinking. Indeed, it was only when she
was practically washed out of the wheel-house that
she let go.
Artist Follen Bishop, R.8.A., has added another to
his list of successful pictures of this village and its
surroundings. This time it is “Our City Far Away,”
a view from the hills, over Adelaide and the plains, to
the sea.
C. W. Fowles, who died the other day, was a son
of the man who was in charge of the Cape Jervis
lighthouse when the Sorata went ashore, with the
late Duke of Manchester aboard. All the passengers,
including the ship’s cat, which was Persian, were
brought ashore and housed at the beacon. Subse-
quently the cat took up its residence in the bush,
and it is stated that felines with a dash of Persian
in them are now part of the fauna of the Cape.
Ruby Wilkie, a Toorak girl who can sport
a natural blush, is engaged to Edgar Lind-
say Rich, a gold-braided Englishman with
Australian relatives. They must have fixed
it up by wireless, because he is now on active
service in the Australian navy. But he was
here occasionally in the days when the navy
was a sociable, dancing, stay-at-home insti-
tution.
The Brighton Clauscens have given their
blessing to the engagement of grand-daughter
Beattie Forbes to Ellis Richards, a clever
young scientist whose dad was a well-known
Bananaland mining man. The fiance is a
Bendigonian now.
Mrs. Charles Fairbairn arrived in London
in time to give away her handsome tawny-
thatched daughter Esther in marriage to
Colonel Wheatley, D.S.O. The wedding took
place in London last week, but the breakfast
was clouded by the news from France that
the second son, Lieut. J. Fairbairn, of the
Flying Corps, was missing. All friends wish
her good news of the lad.
Prospective grandmother Melba has sent
from ’Frisco some of the most exquisite
baby-clothes ever seen in Australia. Other
infant garments of costly, misty quality are
being made by the Ladies’ Work Association
of Melbourne. Which reminds me that the
clever organiser of this workshop, Mrs.
McDevitt, was nearly killed in a motor
accident lately. She lias gone to Queens-
land to recuperate.
Irma Caron is going to Java for the sea-
son. A Dutch entrepreneur came here
searching for talent to entertain race visi-
tors, heard Irma and was conquered. Now
the young person is packing up for the
concert job. She gives a musical farewell
to Melbourne at the Masonic Hall on Thurs-
day,. March 29, with Biddy English (accom-
panist), Jessie Masson and flautist Amadio
helping.
Jennie Brenan came home from Colombo
in fear and trembling. The boat preceding
the one she travelled by was sunk when only
a few hours out, and her ship slipped away to
sea in a haze of rumors and fears. All the
passengers slept in their clothes, with life-
belts clutched in their hands, for several
nights. Hostess Rosie Musgrove saw her
off and did not return at once to the tea-
estate, in case of a prompt, shipwrecked
return. But, after all, they had a quite
uneventful trip.
_ Manager “Greg,” who is producing the
big film “Intolerance,” is a brother of Grif-
fiths, the maker of the monster. The
screen-name was evidently taken to avoid a
clash of Griffins —I mean Griffiths!
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


, a/
ir
7fl
•Si
\
r
«>
/
«
'*/jr'
A
?
8
N>
/
\
/
Vs
w
k
Sx
\
Jt
&
r,
/
7
\
1
k
n
/
lE© .
'-^CNtV^
$
Johnntf Walker: “‘lll blows the wind, that profits nobody/”
Jovial Friend; “ Yes! He rewards the urchin, catches a cold, and
so finds out the efficiency ot ‘Johnnie Walker.
JOHN 1 WALKER & SON, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Dtsttlleds. KILMARNOCK
Born- 1820
—Stilt going


I
1
I
1
i
I
i
i
i
i
§
i
§
I
§
i
i
i
§
i
I
I
§
§
i
§
i
i
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you.
44
Underwear
Is British through and through—the
Brand protects you against inferior
Oerman-made goods.
New ‘’Olympic" Brand.
the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton-bearing the same gu^antef
cnr,^i la i y as J h , e re S ular lines. Your dialer wfll
supply you. Sole manufacturers :
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
w
V
dg
I
The' TOP-NOTCH "ScotcM
t J
V>- Say WHEN ManU
>*OZ
T
yr
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“T.F.M.” : “Leo Lear” (B. 15/2/’l7) is
right in saying that the Austins of Barwon Park
were not actually the first to bring rabbits into Vic-
toria ; but he may dismiss the notion that the credit
of doing so belongs to the man and woman who, as
he says, landed at Geelong- in 1839. According- to
the award of a primitive Arbitration Court, which
sat at Melbourne in May, 1836, to settle certain dis-
putes between the rival houses of Batman and Fawk-
ner (the Montagus and Capulets of the infant
settlement), it would appear that bunny first arrived
in Victoria in 1835 under the auspices of Johnny
Fawkner. The judgment of the Court was to this
effect
We award in the dispute between Mr. Ilenrv
Batman and Mr. John Pascal Fawkener on the
hist claim, thirty shillings; on the second claim,
nothing, although a strong presumption is in our
minds that some hasty expressions of Mr. Batman
may have led Bullet [a Sydney aborigine] to destrov
the rabbits; on the third claim, damage five shillings
and a fine of twenty shillings; and in the fourth
claim, nothing, as it does not appear that Mr. Bat-
man set the dogs on the calf. We cannot omit re-
marknig that There has been a degree of forbearance
on ,t' le P al t Mr. hawkener highly gratifying to us,
and, if generally practised, very conducive to the
general good.— A. Thomson, John Aitkkv j* V es
Simpson. '
“Wancli” : As a matter of fact Bunny
came out with the First Fleet, and with careful
nursing by the authorities established himself on the
Parramatta. lie was included in stock returns every
year, each grazier being required to state, among
other live-stock, approximately how many rabbits lie
possessed. The happiest man on the river was the
one who had most cottontails on his estate. For a
long while it was feared that the creature wouldn’t
take to Australia, and it was only by unremitting-
care that the pioneers succeeded in establishing
warrens in their paddocks. Up to about 1880 bunny
was kept as a pet by farmers and pastoralists. Then
of a sudden he was anathema. He had become
established beyond eradication, and was a rapidly-
advancing- plague. Soon it was compulsory to pursue
and kill him continuously. He was a disaster, an
abomination, a nightmare, a national calamity. But
he is still going strong, and by the time the asinine
methods of destroying him have been put a stop to all
the insectirorous birds will have been wiped out and
the country will be swarming with flics and cater-
pillars.
* * * »
The Rook” : The largest congregation of
ibis I ever came across was about 18 years ago on
the flats near the Murray, 25 miles above the South
A us. border. The rookery covered an area of about
naif a square mile, and during the incubating season
theie weie thousands of brown, white and any other
species that existed, of all ages and sizes. The
nests were made among the grass tussocks and rushes,
and were so plentiful that the old people were bump-
ing each other for space like politicians for limelight.
Goodness only knows how each pair knew their own
little plantation, but I suppose they had some dis-
tinguishing mark.
“Sea-Tea”: On December 21, 1859, .six
teamsters with their waggons and 30 horses were
camped for dinner at “The Weatherboard,” now
Wentworth Falls, Bine Mountains (N.S.W.). In
those days there ’were no railways beyond Parra-
matta. Seeing a storm approaching the carriers
commenced to cover up. their loads, when a flash of
lightning struck the camp. livery man and horse
SUMMING HIM UP
A POLLO: “ Isn't Dave a ter-
rible fellow for the girls?
who's his particular one,
d'you know?”
VENS: “Oh, no particular one is any good
to David!”
*
fell. Two of the men, John Black and James Fer-
guson, were killed and the 30 horses were
also done for. Ferguson’s headstone is still to be
seen just inside the fence on the western side of the
railway enclosure. Black was buried at Parra-
matta. The keeper of “The Weatherboard,'’ who
was standing on his verandah at the time, said that
when the flash occurred a little blue blaze ran over
the camp and all within fell at once.
OUT OF BOUNDS.
PRESIDING GENIUS: “ What is the charge against Private Jones?"
SERGEANT: "If yer plate, 'e's been drunk, an Vs been breaking things, an’ ’e won't obey
no aiders. In fact, e’s been behavin’ gin'rally as though ’e wuz the bloomin’
Colonel himself!"
A very fair arrowroot can be
obtained from the nuts (orange-red when ripe) of
the burrawang, common in many coastal districts of
N. S. Wales. The aboriginals’ method was to break
up the iipe nuts and expose them in openwork
baskets to the flow of a stream. Result, a jelly-like
mass resembling cooked arrowroot. The flour from
the ground-up fruit was used by the blacks, and it is
still employed occasionally by bushmen. Bush rats,
too, appreciate the nuts, and" drag them into their
holes > while our aggressive friend the bulldog ant
often decorates his mound with them. The rotted
butts of burrawangs make first-rate humus for
gardens. 'those who find the burrawang nut disagree
"ith them are advised to try the wooden pear or
the gummy geebung, luxuries commonly available in
burrawang country. If neither of these prove satis-
factory, you'll just have to put up with steak and
onions.
“Bad Australian”: “Mitchell Grass” (B.
14/0/’l6) has the right grip on the lariat when he
observes that the best that can be said for its general
use is that it is cheap. Even that concedes too much.
The lariat was invented for use in open country
where yards could not be built for lack of proper and
sufficiently-cheap materials. The lasso in the hands
of those who swing it most is not cheap owing to
the large number of animals killed or maimed by its
use. Even the most careful vaquero or gaucho
cannot help “cruelling” a wild range animal when
getting in his work in the open where the animal
has room to make trouble; and as for the careless
and brutal operators, I have seen hundreds of
animals—horses, mules and cattle—killed or crip-
pled by that kind, and that kind is the rule rather
than the exception. There is no place to safely
handle wild animals like a good yard and crush. If
these had been readily available the lariat would
never have been divorced from its legitimate func-
tion—jerking the bandido and liorSe-thief to King-
dom Come. As a jerker to Kingdom Come the
lariat is unparalleled.
* * * *
“S.S.”: The man stood at his back
door and whistled twice, whereupon a powerful, dark-
complexioned tyke, half-retriever, half-collie, dashed
out of the grateful shade of the deserted pig pen,
jumped at the latch, sprung it dexterously, shoul-
dered the big gate wide open, and scampered off up
the paddock. Presently he came into view again
behind a herd of co\to. Meanwhile the boss had
seated himself on the grass with his back to a post,
and was slowly churning a pipe of tobacco. The
dog brought the cows up to the gate, weeded out two
or three, and headed off half a dozen heifers. “How
the deuce can he tell which are not wanted ?” I
asked. ‘Dunno,” replied the man on the grass.
The dog drove the cows through into the milking
yard, closed and relatched the gate, and smai'tly
schooled seven cows into seven bails. Then he
trotted down and barked at the tired man on the
grass. “Jimmy Gee! But that’s a clever dog,” 1
said. The man on the grass shook his head wearily.
Dunno,” he replied in hopeless accents, “the swine
couldn’t milk one of ’em to save his life. I suppose
I gotter get up.”
.** * *
I ick” : Talking of animal longevity, can
anyone tell what limit of age may keep the under-
taker from laying his hold upon a goose? At Thor-
wood, near Bungonia (N.S.AV.’), the other day I
attended the funeral of an old bird that had been
the property of three generations of the one family.
He was known to have been a' least 62 years old
and was related to the goose that raised trouble in
our boarding-house. The star boarder wiped the
perspiration from his brow and laid down the
carvers. “May I ask where you got this bird,
Madame?” he said to the landlady. “Oh, yes,”
gushed Mrs. Hashalott, “my son shot it.” “Ah,”
say s his jills, “he must have had a very powerful
pom-pom.
(Continued on page 24.)
STEVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He lies beneath the Syrian sand,
Away from all the tracks he knew ;
And now there's grass on the Paroo,
And heavy rains make fat the land.
'lhree miles across in roaring- flood
The Warrego comes rolling down,
And word goes forth from town to town
Of cattle bogged in seas of mud.
The black duck throng the brimming dams,
White pelicans come soaring east
And crows in legions make a feast
On floating carcases of lambs.
On plains that once were powdered dust
Knee-deep in lakes the mailman rides
With water pouring down bis sides,
. And takes the swollen fords on trust.
This year a great unrest will fall
On all who’ve known the Road’s decrees
Or felt a horse between their knees.
I wonder will he hear the call!
He was a man: lean-built, well-knit,
No braver rode on camp or track,
An artist on a horse's back,
A comrade when the fire was lit.
*
Whatever change the years may bring
They’ll never see his like again
At riding races on the plain
Or shooting wood-duck on the wing.
1 hough men may come and men may go
They’ll never find a man to beat
For pluck and horsemanship his feat
That morning on the old plateau.
In scrubs too thick to canter through
Some mavericks had their hiding-place,
Led by a lordly beast whose pace
Would beat a flying kangaroo.
It: swept through timber like a bird,
And on some quiet, moonlit night
The men would see a streak of white,
And fear would seize the sleeping herd.
This phantom beast had long defied
The hardiest dogs and horsemen tough,
And no one could get near enough
To send a bullet through its hide.
To Steve at last the challenge came.
He laughed and turned their jests aside,
But grinning faces stung his pride
And forped him to the reckless game.
At break of day the tracks he found,
And racing like a man possessed
He cut the leader from the rest,
And forced it to the open ground.
Where miulga stakes are spears of death
And emu-bush grew thick and rank
He stuck like plaster to its flank
Until it reeled with sobbing breath,
Red blood upon its glossy coat;
Then when its strength was nearly spent,
Across his saddle-bows he leant
And tied his scarf around its throat,
And sent it swinging back alone.
A scarf, a silken scarf was all
He flourished at Life’s carnival—
The oidy brand he called his own.
He lies beneath the Syrian sand,
At here from the sky a brassy sun
Blinks down unmoved on battles won:
I wonder can ho understand
How green his country looks to-day,
How sweet have grown the ways he knew,
With grass waist-high on the Paroo
And flowers along the Castlereagh!
I wonder will he wake and stir
A\ hen two by two the drovers pass
Through leagues of golden barley-grass,
With rattling bit and jingling spur.
Or hoar on quiet Syrian nights
The night-horse on its ceaseless tramp
Around the sleeping cattle-camp,
While faintly sounds a far-off bell.
He gave his life ungrudgingly,
But if Death makes his spirit free
I think it must come back to dwell
Amid the ways it loved so well.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


u
David Jones’
* .
Orient Underwear
from 5/11.
“Orient” Underwear is made
from pure wool to which has
been added a percentage of
cotton to prevent shrinkage.
Specially manufactured in
England for David Jones’.
These garments are guaranteed
unshrinkable and are typical
examples of our policy of com-
bining DEPENDABILITY and
SOUND VALUE.
flu.
w,
UNDERVESTS, half sleeves.
Sizes 34, 36, 40, 4'J
inches chest.
Price each,
5/11
UNDERPANTS. Sizes 34, 30,
40, 42 inches waist.
Price per pair,
6/11
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David Jones Ltd
OPP. G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
A
i
SB ■
Leviathan Tailoring
has been in Public
Favor for 65 years
We make Suits for hundreds of
men whom we never see, and
the invariable result is - COM-
PLETE SATISFACTION.
Write now for Free Patterns of
the new
AUTUMN-WINTER
SUITINGS at 63/-,
75/-, 901- to 147|-
(together with Tape and
Home-measurement Chart).
■ Make a selection in your own
home and send your order
by Post.
We will Tailor your Winter Suit
in such a way as will win your
patronage for all time.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Ask for New Illustrated
Catalog. '
Leviathan
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
9
4
*
■
: 1
Cl
“Tile Maxwell Masterpiece
World’s Record.
22,000 MILES NON-STOP RUN.
••fefcV: •
" • . .
A Stock Maxwell Car recently ran for 44 clays without stopping: the engine, covering
22,024 miles over all kinds of roads, in wet and fine weather, and averaged 27 miles to the
gallon. This run was checked and verified by the officials of the Automobile Association.
Easy on Tyres -Light on Petrol.
The Car of
Lowest
“First Cost”
There has been to date
no real full five-passen-
ger car with electric
starter, electric lights,
sliding gear transmis-
sion, high-tension mag-
neto, demountable rims,
elliptic type springs,
“One Man’’ khaki hood,
and every other feature
found in high-priced cars
to sell at so low a price
as
THE MAXWELL.
Sole Agents—
SPECIFICATIONS
are briefly.—4-cylinder, 351i.p. motor, 3jm. bore, M stroke, high-tension magneto ignition,
electric lights, electric starter, electric horn, automatic tell-tale oil gauge, demountable
rims, one extra, one-man khaki hood and envelope, weight 17cwt., floating rear axle, cone
clutch, lined with raybestos and running in oil, transmission gears up forward, three speed
forward and reverse, 2 elliptic rear springs, non-skid tyres on rear, double ventilating
wind screen, kit of tools, pump, jaek and spare-tyre carrier.
The Car of
Lowest
"After Cost”
THE MAXWELL
is lowering all economy
records for
Miles per set of Tyres.
Miles per gallon of
Petrol.
Miles per quart of
Lubricating Oil.
Lowest year-in and
year-out Repair Bill.
CLUTTERBUCK BROS. LTD..
26 to 38 City Road. SYDNEY.


MEGGITTS
JJNSEEDOIIME^
m
/A
PAR
■we
%
/
A
X'
%
v. /
MSTW
>
•X
'll
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.—Advt.
FARMERS!
Help to Make Australia Prosperous by using
MEGGITT’S LINSEED-OIL MEAL.
Pigs, calves, heifers, cows, horses and poultry thrive
on a daily ration of linseed-oil meal. It increases the
milking capacity and lifts the butter-fat test by One
Points
At every show in Australia Meggitt meal-fed cattle
catrj away all the prizes. Mr. H. McD. Livingstone,
Rosehill Farm, Kingaroy,- at the 1916 show won
seven first prizes with a pen of calves and won the
three butter-fat tests with a pair of Meggitt Linseed-
oil meal-fed cows. All Stores, and
MEGGITT LTD.,
iv
0)
sr
*
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers, Parramatta, N. S. Wales.
"Werrimee”: The hornet loves to build
its mud cells in the corners of drawers and open
cupboards, under shelves and behind curtains, over
doors and windows and in the top corners of rooms.
As. each cell is completed the builder deposits eggs
therein, and crams the cavity with spiders or a
miscellany of grubs, each of which it paralyses by
Planting its sting - in a particular spot. If they were
killed outright they would be useless for food by
the time the young hornet was ready for breakfast,
then the cell is carefully capped, arid the next one
proceeded with. A skilful worker is the hornet.
Each bit of mud is well moulded and rolled into
little pellets before being carried home. The insect
is his own bric-kmaker, bricklayer, hodcarrier, mortar-
mixer and architect, and he shows himself a finished
and painstaking tradesman in all departments.
“Billy T.’/: Lamb’s house was at the
foot of Winter Hill, and about 50 yards from his
front door was a tunnel which a hopeful and ener-
getic prospecting party had put in many years
ago. This tunnel was Lamb’s sanctuary. Three
of us were working a patch of surface dirt at the
creek below, and in five weeks we arrived at a
thorough understanding of the course of events in
the Lamb household. When we heard a shrill out-
burst of voices, and the crack of a plate smashing
against the chimney bricks, we looked to see Henry
Lamb burst from the front door and dart for the
hill at his most vigorous hobble, with Mary Lamb
in hot pursuit brandishing a broom handle, an iron
ladle, a stewpan or any weapon she might have
snatched at in the heat of debate. If luck was-
with Lamb, he dived into the tunnel and was lost
to view in the subterranean gloom. Sometimes
Mrs. Lamb followed in a few paces, but it was as
dark as the illimitable pit 30 yards in; and there
were tributary, drives, it was useless to pursue
Henry further. As a rule Mary contented herself
with hurling a few stones into the void, accom-
panied by many bitter and unladylike reflections
on Henry and Henry’s mother and all Henry’s
blood relations. An hour or so later Lamb would
reappear, very cautiously, and return by slow
stages to his duties as a tiller of the soil. If
Henry missed sanctuary by a hair’s breadth, which,
as he was rheumaticky, happened twice, it was
Heaven help him, and Heaven didn’t. “An angry
woman is hell on a horse,” runs the only Australian
proverb. She is worse on a husband. : This
domestic heresy hunt was the only amusement we
had in eight months at Winter,Hill; yet we were
sorry for the Lamb that Mary had. One day there
was the usual pursuit, but this time Mary followed
in and did not reappear. From the tunnel came
reports of a fearful belaboring, and the yells of
a strong man in his agony. We chased up, and fol-
lowed on. In the gloomy interior, about 15 yards
along, Mary was walking round her Lamb with an
enormous Kaffir mealie spoon that Henry had been
so unfortunate as to secure at the Boer war. She
was basting the life out of the hapless man. “Run,
HIS AWFUL LUCK.
"Yes, lady, a shell hurst right at my feet an’
wounded me in 1h places an’ blew me
uniform to rags.”
"But haven’t you any papers to show the
truth of your story?”
“Just me Inch, lady! They was in me pocket
an’ got blew to hits.”
you ochre idiot !” said Wilson. But Lamb couldn’t
or wouldn’t, so we hauled Mary off, and disarmed
her ; and then I lit a match, and we grasped the situa-
tion simultaneously. Lamb was caught by the shin
in a dog-trap his Mary had ingeniously .set in
pleasant anticipation of their next domestic differ-
ence.
EXPENSES O,F EDUCATION.
How long did you say it took him to learn to drive a car?”
"Three.”
"Months?”
"No, cars.”
L Fou’ : An insect I met among young
messmate timber in Gippsland (Vic.) must be near
the limit in protective coloring, shape and motion.
Known as “stick beetle,” it is built something on
the lines of the praying mantis, but is lankier.
My largest specimen was 18in. long. Of the exact
brown of the gum stems it lives among, its cylindri-
cal body is like a straightish twig or curled bit of
bark, with twiglet leg's branching off. It has a
casual ■ habit of standing round with its legs in
odd, angular attitudes, so that it seems no more
symmetrical than any other bit of wood. It has
no head or tail to speak of. When it walks it pro-
ceeds slowly and at the same time sways its body
fiom side to side like something blowing in the
wind, so that you hardly notice it is going forward.
I never heard it make a noise, but if it did, on the
strength of its other performances, I bet it would
make a rustle like a gumleaf. The next-hardest thing
to see is an insect pest that comes on mint. About
t\vice as big as rose aphis, and the exact purple of
mintstalk, it folds its wings square like a mint-
stalk and, sending- out a good mint smell, lies low
on the stalk and says nothing- while you peer and
wonder what’s become of the leaves that ought to
hate waited for lamb and geeon peas.
Nick Bottom”: None of the ban-ackers
fot Australian tannin-bearing substances seem to have
anything to say for ironbark. Yet this hide is specially
valuable for tanning fishing-nets and the like. Tweed
River (N.S.W.) fishermen use it in preference to
mangrove bark because it makes the net practically
pioof against salt-water rot. The method of 'pre-
pai ing the tan is simple. The bark is chopped into
small pieces and boiled in a tan-pot for about three
hours. 'Then the bark is taken out of the pot, the
Are extinguished and the dry net immersed in the
boiling liquid. It is allowed to remain in tan over
night and then taken out and dried. I have also
seen sails and tent-flies treated by this process; but
the resulting color, a dark brown, is reckoned a
drawback. Most people prefer the golden brown of
the she-oak, or the slightly darker mangrove tan,
ignoring the greater w-eather-resisting properties of
ironbark in their desire for a more effective color
scheme.
“Truthful James”: “Eryander,” “E.S.S.”
and other sages who have a weakness for the investi-
gation of the life, length, habits, etc., of the centi-
pede, should visit Ardlethan (N.S.W.). Armies of
these crawlers inhabit the drains and sand-dumps
near the batteries. Ten-ineh specimens are not
uncommon. An inquisitive pup came in conflict with
a big one the other day, and we had a defunct mon-
grel 20min. after hostilities ceased. I dissected a
9in. brute, and found in his carcase 137 grains of
sand and one grain of tin. I reckon these beasts
have devoured the enormous tin deposits that were
discovered at Ardlethan about four years ago.
“D.F.” : If an yone wants to try a cheap
and all-Australian cure for indigestion let him chew
the bark of the white wattle (Acacia dealbata). There
are bushmen in the southern part of Tasmania who
swear by this remedy, and in particular a most vera-
cious citizen of Dunalley claims that his long-stand-
ing and obstinate case of the disease has given way
in a marvellous manner since ho acquired the chewing
habit a few months ago.
“Wart” : Allow me to introduce my
family of aerial acrobats and loop-the-loop artists,
they are a family of fantail fly-catchers known
locally as cranky fans. The family consists of four
young birds and the two old ones. (This is the
second brood the old birds have reared this season).
Their nest is in a gumtree just at the end of my
verandah, and is one of the neatest pieces of bird
architecture I know’ of. It is shaped likb a wine-
glass broken off, the outside covered with spider-web
and the inside carefully lined with horsehair. The
eggs were a light buff with dark brown blotches. The
young birds have been taking their first flying lesson
the last day or two. They sit on the end of a limb
while the old birds beat round the leaves to start an
insect, and then we have an aerial coursing match.
Ihe four set out in chase of the fly: one moment
they go full speed ahead with tail straight out
behind and closed like one feather ; the next moment
the tail is opened out as a fan and used as a brake
or rudder, and the owner is performing spirals,
dives, circles, loop-the-loops and many other tricks
impossible to most birds. When the insect is cap-
tured, which is every time, they all come back to
the limb, and if, as is usually the case, it has been
caught by an old bird, the youngsters all vibrate
their wings and cheep until it is handed over. And
then the whole performance begins again.
\\ illie \Y: One of my best friends is
the big black garden spider whose job in fine
weather is to spin a lovely gossamer at night across
the garden path from an apricot tree on one side
to a rose bush on the other. From cricket-chirp
till the moon is well up lie weaves his trap, and
there is no guesswork about his pattern. Yet I don’t
think he takes in any of the standard knitting
periodicals. If the day promises to be warm ho
gets to work like smoke, and has the thread coiled
into his innards in a marvellously short time. But
if the sky is cloudy he loafs on the job, and seems
to be wirelessing messages to me as to what he
would like for the evening gorge. After the inner
pattern of the lace work has been wound in, the
spinner glides up to the topmost branch of th.e
apricot lookout, and in a twinkling the longer foun-
dation threads are brought in, and the garden pathway
is clear to friend and foe alike. When I get to
know him better I’m going to ask him why he takes
in his web every night instead of letting it brave
the breeze like other master builders of his race.
“Fast” : A fox-terrier belonging to a
Benalla (Vic.) resident very strenuously disappeared
"hen chasing a rabbit. It was a real vanishing
trick, for although diligent search was made for «
couple of days no trace of the animal could be dis-
covered. The other morning a neighbor of the owner
saw the hindquarters of what looked to be a deg
protruding from a log. Assuring himself that the
poor beast was alive, he liberated it with the help of
an axe. Sure enough, it was the lost terrier. It had
been a prisoner for 11 days without food or drink.
Though a bit lean, next day it was as well as ever.
“Ivuku Kuku" : The old Papuan resident
settled “down South’’ for good, away from * coral
•eefs and palms, remembers New Guinea with liking,
hut strangely seldom calls his house after anything
in the Territory. I have heard of an “Ela (Port
Moresby) and “Hanuabada” (Port Moresby’s native
village), but of no others, and none in any case from
the eastern end of the country. Here are a few
suggestions:—
Yegunuma—My house. Marana —Sunshine.
Lorona—-A good thing. Siai—Bird of Paradise.
Xumaloro—Fine house, Roni—Peace.
good house. Sana la—A storehouse.
Kaioni—Greeting. Ealasi—North-west wind.
They have a language for every district in Papua.
My cooky boy, who is nothing special in the way of
a linguist, speaks five fluently, and I know of a
Government interpreter (native) who speaks 18. But
Suau, from which the above are taken, is the cur-
rency over a very large area of the country.
“A.S.H.” : There’s a mistaken idea that
once a dingo has chewed a young beast nothing will
save it. For a time 1 believed the yarn, and let
several calves die, but recently when a poddy was
badly mauled I washed out the wounds (one of which
was a hole as big as one’s fist) with a solution of
permanganate of potash, and inserted some fine linen
soaked in carbolic oil. After a few days I repeated
the treatment and persisted for the next three weeks,
adding an occasional syringing with a solution of
phenyl, then applying Stockholm tar to discourage
flies. Result, calf is busy growing into good beef.
* * * #
“Haka”: Maorilaud’s champion all-round
cocky hails from the Mount Peel district. Some
time ago he acquired a small grazing run and 1800
jumbucks for the purpose of growing wool. Labor
being scarce, he acted as bis own cook, offsidfer and
musterer. He undressed the mob himself, 80 being
the lowest tally put through the porthole in one day,
did his own classing, pickin’-up, rolling and baling
and handed his war profits over to the patriotic
funds. If anyone is desirous of lending him a hand
his present address. is somewhere in front of the
German lines.
-X- * * # j
“Salex”: At Sackville (Ilawkesbury
River) there is a cave upon the walls of which
are hand-prints, ranging in size from a baby’s np to
a man’s. These prints are black and are embedded
in the rock face. As to liow they originated there
is much doubt, (Incidentally, there is much doubt
about the origin of most things, including mer-
maids.) On the top of the cliff near the. cave
referred to, there is a flat rock once carved in
squares similar to a. chessboard, and the late James
Holmes informed me that black brother used to
play a game there, somewhat similar to draughts.
There is no trace of the board now, the sandstone
having weathered away.
ALMOST HICLESS.
"Wozzy drunk?”
"Drunk! Why ’e could ’ardly say ’id”


m^jr
I
zm,
m.
j?
I
/i'll
rgum
//*
U
29%, < /
to
1
%
%
i
p
i
w.iWi
i
ir#
o
E
I
52
ill 0
,iii/o'tullliio
/Hill
z/tf'
w.
if/ i
»/ /
i
\
m
&
m
for
X
%
f
P 4
£
%m
rT
: < A
f$
P
gg
i
%
%
%
%
m
*
\
&
5*
mm
\
Dunlop
tyres
Give the
Best Service
m
/
7
>
f
r
')
Sis'
■7*
H
V
I
W/
1
&
2*
nwi
If
if
a
m
mu
a
r
/ %
%
t
////
4s
ir
H
f
/ /.
fU
w
'/y/r/VL' w/
v//"'
m
F'm
w
Test of Motor Tyres
HEN Balmain Bros. (Bega) Ltd., of N.S.W.,
instituted the Cooma-Bega Motor Mail Service,
they decided to test out the various makes
of Tyres, irrespective of nationality and price
—with a view to the equipment of their fleet.
THE AUSTRALIAN WHITE TREAD
DUNLOP
demonstrated its superiority by test against the leading im-
ported makes. Result—Dunlops were selected and fitted to
the fleet of heavy 35 h.p. Mail Cars, which besides passengers
invariably carry upwards of 2 tons of postal matter daily
over some of the most mountainous country in N.S.W. It’s
a route that soon demonstrates the merits of a tyre, its
strength and its dependability under the severest stresses.
In the first test “Dunlops” won —that’s 12 months ago. How
they lived up to that test is told in the following letter
The Manager, Dan lop Rubber Co. Ltd.
Dear Sir,—As we have now been shoeing our cars
almost exclusively with Dunlop Grooved White Tread
Covers for a period of 12 months we consider that
We are due to place on record our appreciation of
the good honest service which these tyres are
giving us. We know the mileage which each tyre
on each car has completed, owing to the fact
that we have embodied in our business system a
daily statistical record completed from drivers ’
daily reports, which must tally with the finan *
aal records of our business . In short, we can
talk facts about the Dunlop White Tread
Cover. On our Cooma-Bega mail cars, equip-
ped with 880 x 1.20 Dunlop Grooved White
Tread pneumatic covers (twin on rear
wheels), we exceed the average of 3,000
miles even on these heavy cars. Some of
the covers attain between 4,000 and 5,000
miles. Exceptional service when one realises
that we run a daily mail service up and down
Brown Mountain, rising more than 3,500 ft.
in a distance of 11 miles, climbing the whole
distance. The balance of our rolling stock con-
sists of heavy cars to carry passengers ( 8).
These are shod with standard sized covers, and we
have at present one tyre with its tread still perfect
after having completed a distance of 6,214 miles
as follows — 5,158 on rear wheel; 1,056 on front
wheel. Our services cover a distance of 160,000
miles per annum , and it can be readily understood
that we can only use the tyre which proves itself to be
the “ best miles for money” proposition, regardless of
the original cost price of the tyre. Fortunately for
ourselves we have found that the Dunlop is the only
possessor of virtues which go to make an economical
proposition, as its first cost is cheaper than most other
tyres on the market, and its mileage record equals the more expensive tyres now competing with it. You
are at liberty to publish any of the information supplied herein, as any excerpt from this letiei can be
authenticated by an examination of our office records. Yours faithfully,
BALMAIN BROS. (BEGA) LTD .
& & & W. H. BALM AIN, Managing Director.
All Motorists can have just the same satisfactory service, and at a running
cost per mile that no imported tyre can approach. There’s no need to send
your money out of the country for tyres —“Dunlops” will do everything
that is promised for imported tyres, and do it cheaper!
LIST ON APPLICATION. Stocked in GROOVED , THREE RIBBED & RUBBER NON-SKID.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States Sc N.Z.


Sensational Triumph
for Famous
De Witt’s puis
Kidney & Bladder
It is indeed a
weakness are
triumph when suffering', pain and
finally and completely overcome.
Regarding kidney and bladder troubles, many remedies claim
to cure, and do, without doubt, give relief for a time, but the one
remedy which will give you quick relief, and most probably a per-
manent cure, is De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, for when
imce cured by these wonderful little pills our readers say they are
cured for ever.
“My kidneys were weak right from childhood. As I got
older so they seemed to get worse; then rheumatism showed itself.
For over 14 years I suffered with this agonising complaint, and had
to go into hospital four times. Then, even worse than this, I had
rheumatic fever, when it was thought I could never recover.
Anyway I managed to pull round again, but last March (1912) I
ivent down again with my old complaint, and everyone once more
|;ave me up. We tried everything we knew of. No one could help
me. Nothing seemed to be of real use.
“While I was so ill and in such pain a small box of De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills was given to my mother. These pills
were so strongly recommended to her that she decided to give them
a fair trial. In two days, to everybody’s surprise, I was able to
move about a little. She sent and got me a larger box of De Mitt's
Pills, and I continued taking them. In six weeks I was able to go
to work. De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills had not only given
me quick relief—they had cured me. Now (July, 1912) I can lift
and easily handle half-a-hundredweight of metal, for I have been
working on a metal pot, running white metal. That is considered
one of the hardest jobs in our line.
“My name —Albert Carpenter—is well known, and if anyone
cares to refer to me at 17 Lambeth Walk. Westminster, S.AV., I
shall be pleased to confirm the above statement. Knowing as 1
do how invaluable these little pills are to those who suffer from
kidney and bladder complaints, in any form, I only hope that
people who are afflicted as I was will give De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills a fair trial. If they do I know they will get benefit
as I did, for I have recommended De Witt’s Pills to many people—
some of them very bad cases —and I have never known them fail.”
Writing to the proprietors two years afterwards, Mr. Carpenter
says: “I feel better than ever before. I think this is the best
proof I am cured, especially after taking into consideration the
awful weather we have had lately ; I have gone through it without
a cold or a twinge of pain, and am fit to work with anybody."
This is from a man who had been racked with rheumatism in its
two worst forms —chronic and acute —for years. Just reason it
out! How was it De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills cured him,
ir
a
✓
*
1/V. A. CARPENTER (from photo).
Weak and 111 for Years.
De Witt’s made me
a Strong Man.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold by Chemists and Storekeepers everywhere, 2/9 and o/b peibo^
size—most advantageous. TRIAL BOX FREE and plainly packed if you send 3d i 1 strS Ivduey,
With the blue seal on the cork— send your money to E. C. De Witt & Co., Ltd., 41-42 Pitt fetreet, uney,
when every other kind of treatment had utterly failed? Here is
the reason :—•
Rheumatism is caused by a curious poisonous acid in the
blood. This acid, just like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and causes that awful, agon-
ising pain of backache, rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the bladder, etc. In health
the kidneys pass out this poisonous acid through the bladder by
natural functions, but when weak or diseased they fail to do their
work. Hence illness and pain.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills strengthen the kidneys
and drive the poisonous, pain-causing acid right out of the system.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of kidney trouble you
must positively get rid of the cause —the poisonous uric _ acid.
Remember, to do this a real remedy must pass through the kidneys
and the bladder and not through the bowels, as most kidney pills
do. When you see the urine change to a muddy bluish color—a
feature which distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder I ills
from all others—you know beyond all doubt that they have put
their healing touch on the right spot—the kidneys and the bladder.
A wonderful pill straight to the kidneys—that is why De Witt s
Pills give such amazingly quick relief —every time. A permanent
cure follows in almost every case. Look out for that blue-colored
urine. It means so much.
Kidney disease is far commoner than most people would
imagine. It is reported that at least six out of every ten people
who “go sick” do so through kidney disease. And, moreover, five
out of every ten sufferers die from this same cause. If people
only knew how to tell whether their kidneys are diseased or not, it
would not be so bad. but thousands upon thousands of men and
women to-day are content to suffer and die in ignorance. * Weak
kidneys lead to deadly Bright’s Disease in many cases.
How are you to really recognise Kidney Trouble? Here is
the way:— Have you a nasty taste in the mouth the first thing in
the morning. puffiness under the eyes, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, aches and pains in various parts of the body? _ Have
you constipation, cloudy urine, or sharp stabbing or aching pains—a
pain “as though my back will break”? These are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble, and those who suffer from
backache, rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone, cystitis
(inflammation of the bladder), or pains in the muscles and joints,
are all suffering these pains through weak or diseased kidneys, for
these are positively the symptoms of kidney trouble.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills cure all these symptoms
by the only right and proper method. They cure by going straight
to the kidneys and removing the cause —-the poisonous uric acid—
right out of the blood through the bladder. And when the cause is
gone, commonsense says the pain, the weakness and the misery
must disappear, as it did in Mr. Carpenter’s case. _
Large size contains two-and-a-half times as many as the 2/9
If you have any difficulty in getting genuine De \\ itt s Pills
who' will gladly supply by. return.
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Wattle Bark”: “Barkers” earn every
penny of the 30s. or 355. a ton they get tor
stripping the black wattle of its overcoat;
for it is about the toughest of the many
tough jobs in the bush. The barker’s tools
are the stripping bar, a bit of round iron
about 35 inches long with a knob on one
end and a point on the other —a cross
between a chisel.and a spoon. It looks easy
to gouge the bark off the butt of the tree
with the bflr, but it is not as easy as it.
looks, and mostly you have to haul it off
with your hands. Stripping the limbs is
worse "work, with the addition that you have
to climb like a monkey and hang on with
your feet while you work with the bar and
your hands. You rip your clothes and your
skin getting up and down the trees, and it
there are any weak spots or cuts on your
hands the rough edges of the bark soon find
them out. Some barkers cut the trees down
to save climbing, but it doesn’t finish the job
any sooner, and the wattle-tops make such
an unholy mess on the ground that many
run-holders discourage the plan. As black-
wattle bark is worth £6 or £6 10s. per ton
there is good money in the business just
now. I have seen a good tree give well
over a cwt. of bark. If the trees are prime
and the bark is running well a good man
can get off over two tons a week. But at
best it isn't easy money.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Melbourne’s gas monopoly has
been safeguarded by the local politicians for
nearly 40 years.- As far back as 1870 a
select committee advocated a transfer of the
business to municipal control, but Private
Enterprise has managed to keep the reform
at a distance ever since. Five years ago a
Board fixed the standard price of gas at
4s. and the standard dividend at 10 per
cent.; but thus far the Peacock Government
has let this: household matter lip. The some-
what alarmed co. reduced its price to 4s. 4id.
when a larger reduction was threatened ; but
when the danger cloud had blown over it
raised the price to 4s. 7d. One of the Mel-
bourne suburban councils has formally pro-
tested against this further imposition, and
if the public is not top tired to combine for
its own protection the co. can be made to
sit up. It is fallaciously supposed that a
gas co. can do as it likes with its customers;
but if all the householders, with one accord,
met their next gas account with a refusal
to pay more than the standard price fixed
by the Board, it is certain that the co. would
not proceed to stop its business by cutting
everybody off at the meter.
Probably Justice a’Beckett (Vic.) meant
what he said the other day. but the sharks in
court merely grinned. His Honor was re-
proving a husband and wife who appealed
against a magistrate’s order against them
jointly for goods supplied. “Never mind
Lord Halsbury’s decisions,” he said, “they
are good friends of the lawyers. The sensi-
ble course would have been for the husband
to pay tin* money.” Then ’s Honor recol-
lected' that he was a lawyer and not a
sensible man. and upheld the point of
law taken. Also he “certified for costs in the
application.” That was why the sharks
grinned.
Shackleton’s ship, the Aurora, has been
sold to English buyers for a little over
£lO,OOO. Gear sold at auction in Welling-
ton (M L.) brought in another £9OO. The
old ship was a whaler before she was com-
mandeered for Polar work, and it is likely
that she will soon be away again nosing for
white water.
“Mnrkah”: “Bustler” (B. S/3/’l7) casts
aspersions on my knowledge of accumulators
in connection with the electric lighting of
trains. His first objection, re the evil effects
of possible over-charging, is easily re-
moved, for the Edis n cell which he men-
tions cannot be over-charged. Therefore
excessive train speed would not lead to the
over-charging of batteries. But conceding
“Rustler’s” point, it wouldn’t require “elab-
orate arrangements” to meet the trouble.
Auto, cut-out switches and over-load releases
are very simple affairs. “Rustler” ascribes
injurious effects to jolting. The accumula-
tors carried at sea in connection with wire-
less take no harm from years of battering.
Neither do those used in electric delivery-
cars, and they experience more jolting in a
_ week than would come their way in a year
on passenger trains. The fact that the
electric delivery-cars which are becoming so
common in our cities carry, in addition to
their load, accumulators that supply suffici-
ent energy to not only light them but also
drive them makes “Rustler’s” argument
that the weight of the apparatus is too great
look silly.
“Lee-oh”: The Norwegian barque Blen-
heim. just sunk by the Huns —without warn-
ing. as per Hun custom —was one of the very
last of the old-timers in the London-M.L.
trade. Forty years ago, when she made her
first run across the Roaring ’Forties to Auck-
land, she was a. full-rigged ship and her
name was the Wanganui. She was one of
the fleet of Sunderland-built iron ships
turned out for the N.Z. Shipping Co., and
when she got a decent quartering breeze
there were few windbags in this trade that
had the legs of her. When the Shaw-Savill
people bought her they changed her name to
Blenheim, and when the Scowegians got hold
of her and the old red ensign was hauled
down a Frederikstad firm set her a-lumber-
ing. There can’t be many of the old fleet
afloat now. One of the handful is the Agda,
c.v Waitangi, in her day a beautiful main-
skysail-yarder, now hauling piles and pit
props somewhere in the North Seas. Another
is the Euterpe, though they don’t call her
that now. She was one of Shaw-Savill s
clipper passenger-carriers, and Captain Tom
Bowling, now retired at Christchurch
(M.L.). was one of the skippers that trod
her poop. The splendid old liner has been
razee'd to barque rig. her classic name has
been altered to Star of India, and a Cap’n
Christiansen or a Svenson works her up and
down between Alaska and ’Frisco in the
salmon-packing biz.
The shuffling of the P. and O. arrange-
ments throughout Australasia has caused a
shudder to run down the spines of the local
stall's. The British India Co., for which
Macdonald. Hamilton and Co. act as general
agents, will take control. The live P. and O.
offices will be scrapped, in Melbourne the
A.U.S.X. Co. will be the local agents, both
companies being directed from one office.
The top dogs, such as Gordon Wesche and
Plummer, will have ail interest in the com-
bine. The frigid P. and O. manner has been
kept alive by beautiful imported young men;
and there will be shrill yelps of agony when
they have to sell their first tickets for a
Bay trip.
* - * * *
“D.F.” : Some of the timber used in the
Electrolytic Zinc Co.’s works at Risdon
(Tas.) is another object-lesson in the devel-
opment and conservation of our great
natural resources. A lot of the beams and
uprights are oregon, and manager Gepp says
they are used, not because the U.S.A. timber
is preferred to Australian hardwood, but
simply because decently-seasoned- hardwood
could not be got in time for the job. As a
matter of fact, the oregon is .a heap dearer
than the local wood and not as strong, but
the Tasmanian sawmillers are just like the
State Government —they live from hand to
mouth.
* * * #
“McSalt”: “McNorth” (B. 8/2/T7)
doesn’t know everything about the Inver
line. I sailed on the Inveresk and the Inver-
clyde, also on the ill-fated luverlochy that
piled herself up on the Victorian coast in
3902, and 1 can make an affidavit that so
far from being graceful vessels, built with
a special eye to speed, they were mostly
“Russell’s Coffins” built by the mile on the
Clyde and cut off in lengths to suit pur-
chasers, with a special eye to the economical
carriage of coal. After being in the old
Macquarie, which could and did travel, to
say nothing of the speedy Harbinger, the
Inverclyde was something like a canal barge.
At earning dividends for her Aberdeen
owners, the Inverclyde, which was originally
a stump-topgallant-mast barque and any-
thing but graceful, could no doubt give
points to the Macquarie; but when it came
to travelling, the Macquarie could sail rings
round her. As for “McNorth s” yarn about
the steamer that the . Inveresk ran a dead-
heat with, he doesn’t tell us what sort of
a steamer it was, and he should have men-
tinned that the barque was in ballast and on
the particular bit of this world’s snfface
that suits a windjammer better than any
other. If a packet can’t travel in ballast
running the Easting down, she’ll never get
a move on at all. The one good word I can
say for the Inver boats is that they didn t
feed you too badly, though they made up for
it by under-manning and extracting more
work per shellback than anything afloat, bar
a Not a Scotiainan.
* * *
Just before the war Sydney Harbor Trust
constructed a new wharf at Miller s 1 oint
to accommodate vessels like the Ceramic
and Niagara, and even bigger things. A
week or so ago the costly berth was accom-
modating a four-masted Yankee lumber
schooner. That and nothing more. If any-
one had asked old R. R. P. Hickson, ex-
president of the Trust, how long it would
be before his new wharf would berth a
Yankee lumber schooner he would have
leaped four feet and called for a strait
jacket.
* * *
“4217 Gunner”: Australia makes and
takes the biscuit. One day the bread ration
was missing and we got an issue of Aus-
tralian biscuits instead. They were so good
that the whole ammunition column hopped
out of its dugouts and kangarooed down the
hill to the quarter-master’s home to see it
there were any more. We preferred our own
country’s biscuits to the bread, and the
bread was good.
THE LANDMARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the mark of our history,
And token of our progression;
Pyramid of our mystery,
And warrant of our possession ;
Here in the ranges, a sentinel sign,
Poppet-heads of a ruined mine.
It rose in adventure’s hope and fear,
An Argo-ship for a quest of gold,
Handiwork of the pioneer—
Footprint left by the men of old;
There in the sunlight, romance's sign,
Poppet-heads of an olden mine. •
Relic of courage and industry—
This is the badge of our nationhood,
Parchment-stamp of our liberty,
Rickety fabric oi crumbling wood :
Worn of the sun and frost and wind,
Cracked and splintered and rusty-pinned.
Blazon it strong on our standard high:
Sound we its fame with loud insistence:
“This is the sign we have conquered by,
This is the reason of our existence!”
Mystic structure, heroic fame —
Poppet-heads of an ancient claim.
Over the ridges stern and grim,
Stands it starkly against the sky,
Shadowy -seeming as day grows dim,
Fading ghostly from sight of eye;
Gaunt and lonely, a spectral sign—
Poppetheads of a perished mine!
N.S.W.
JAS. P. McENROE.
THE WAY TO TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Up Woolcott-street to Darlinghurst
The noisy trams swing past,
From early morning when tlie “first”
Links ciosely with the “last.”
Now' past a home of other days
With dust-grimed skirts of green;
Here soulless eyes of tall flats gaze,
There terrace-houses lean.
Past all the shops of William-street,
Now open sky and park,
Good green things for the eye to meet,
And memory hears the lark
That sang and soared for you and me
One sweet boronia time;
A single hand-touch then was fee
To set the earth a-chime.
Grey, mother opposite, I know
Your brave eyes, stricken numb,
Vision the babe of long ago,
Now buried by the Somme.
The actor closes up his score,
And for a moment lives
The triumphs that he knew of yore.
To all the green space gives
Some message but to her who sits
Demure with wind-blown hair,
With rounded cheek where lurks and flits
A dimple here and there.
Of stiff park trees what need has she
To steal a wistful glance,
While youth and beauty make her free
The green fields of romance?
Up Woolcott-street the loud trams beat
With never pause or wait;
Through Darlinghurst, down William-street
They bear their human freight;
And some are sad while some are gay,
But all are thrall to town. ''
Grey William-street where night and day,
The trains ply up and down!
N.S.W.
JOHN EGAN.


11l
m
(lit!
M
Iffll
==
S^:
m
§f#*
— cr
-~—cs
.' „:£iX:i
&4HHI
fiTORHn
— -cs
Qi
mi
fMm
ec:
'V! M.n ,’
h±s
■■>■'■
“ -
■:cr.
mm
ss~—
IB
r. ~
: ™
: B
sa—
s»~—
=3 I
===?
gg
-rs=
:=«
=s=l
s—
j ~irr
!— C=
=3r—
S 3
n m m
:-:■« '■!
(ill II Hit
tliiflll
II tit
BIMIIIJIfI
HI!,!!
n
m ini
tin
1!
IIII:IH
m
' MAGNETIC TYPE
BSIOG HI
79
SEASON MILEAGE
TRIP
SUB
MILES PER HOUR
*-■
WARNER
"AUTO-METER,
£6.
An exceptionally fine
Speedometer for smart
cars.
. £&ssr
If
STEWART •
V=Ray Spark Plug
4/6.
Four sparking points.
Never fails in service.
Core is oil-proof, soot-
proof and fracture-
proof.
PRODUCTS
THE WORLD’S LEADING MOTOR-CAR ACCESSORIES.
The Stewart Speedometer is the only accessory on which
practically all Motor-car Manufacturers, Owners and Users agree.
With Tyres, Carburetters, Magnetos, Bearings, Axles and
other equipment for Motor-cars, no one seems to absolutely stand
out above and beyond all others. ' The opinion of Car Manufac-
turers and Users is divided; some choose this make, others that
make.
With Speedometers, it is different; here opinion unites. The
Stewart is THE favorite. It stands supreme throughout the world
for efficiency, reliability and long service.
And Each Stewart Product occupies an Equally Commanding Position.
The Stewart Vacuum system
now represents practically 70 p.c.
of all the feed systems in use. It
is rapidly replacing pressure and
gravity-feed systems the world
over.
The Stew-art Tyre Pump is now
included as standard equipment by
many of the manufacturers of
better-class Cars. Where not sup-
plied by the manufacturer, num-
berless purchasers instal it them-
selves. It saves your time and
saves that hard back-breaking work
of pumping by hand.
There is also the popular Stewart
Warning Signal—Motor-driven or
hand-operated. Its warning note
is heard everywhere, and is readily
distinguished above all others.
Then there is the Stewart V-Ray
Spark Plug—the original four-
pointer, which was awarded the
( odd Medal at the recent Panama
Exhibition after the keenest com-
petition with all makes.
See that your Car is equipped throughout Avith Stewart
Products. They can be secured from leading Storekeepers and
Motor-car Accessory Dealers Everywhere.
The Stewart Products are hacked by the Avorld-Avide Cooper
Organisation and Service.
COOPER ENGINEERING COMPANY LTD.,
129 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY :: :: 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Headquarters
Berkhamsted,
England.
Motor Accessories
Factories :
Chicago, U.S.A.
*
mwm®
STEWART
Speedometer for
Fords, £2/17/6.
Keeps tab on your
tyre mileage—petrol
and oil consumption,
etc.
Mounted on attractive
cowl board, ready to
attach to car for 10/-
extra.
tn
t
STEWART
Vacuum System,
£3/5 -
ensures even, positive
How of petrol on aji
grades. Saves 10 per
cent, to 15 per cent, on
petrol bills.
wrSA
§§piB
11
■I
i f
. ;
m
m
m ‘
; v'd
.
■•'s
STEWART HAND=OPERATED
WARNING SIGNAL,
£l/10/-
Will actually outlast any ear you put it on.
Easily attached to any motor-car or motor-
cycle. Kemember, your safety depends on a
good signal, and get a Stewart.
STEWART
TYRE PUMP,
£4.
I>et your motor do the tiresome work
of pumping:. The Stewart Tyre Pump
is always at your service, ready to
save you time and labor.
STEWART MOTOR-DRIVEN
WARNING SIGNAL,
£2/10/-
Xot an ordinary electric signal, but contains
a complete high-grade motor. A signal that
never fails—the one you ought to have.


A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Spoons and
Tongs, pure Silver-plated A 1 quality, 15/6.
Others, 8/6, 10/6 20/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Table Appointments
c
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, handsomely finished, £5/10/-
\ Saunders’ Inkstand and Pen Box, pure suver-
plated Cut Glass Bottles, “Stag” Design,' 35/_
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, pure Silver-plated, 26 pieces
in polished Oak Case, £2/15/-
A. Saunders’ Card Receiver, pure silver-plated, At quality,
handsome Floral Design, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure Silver-
plated, Al quality, handsomely engraved, 63/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-15 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite
Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Crackers, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, beautifully finished, with 2 pairs
' Crackers, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, A 1 quality, highly burnished, 55/-
m
A. Saunders’ Salad Howl and Servers, fine Crystal
Cut Glass, pure Silver-plated Mounts, 27/6.
A. Saunders’ Egg Frame and
Spoons, 4 Cups, pure Silver-plated, Gilt
Lined Cups and Spoons, 35/-
M
v?.
m
Ca? «
EVANS
Stop that Husky Croak!
lantisepticTH ROAT
Pastilles
Sore Throats quickly
yield to treatment which
removes the cause by killing
the germ.
Evans, Sons, Lescher & Webb,Ltd London.
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
Shipped in British vessels. H
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. 'Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown
Of All Storekeepers
tvana Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd. — Liverpool A London.
z
X
\
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRTAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over oO
engraving's, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. llow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine's Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly's Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book bv De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurstons Card
Tricks,* 1/2. All Zola's, including Nana, I’6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Sd., and all the Rationai. Press Re-
PRiNTS (send for list). .Toys of I,ife,_ 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
HandybOOK, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor InicKS
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/9 Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, -illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners' Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce 11/-. Practical Gas and. Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Sd. Britain for the British,
Sd How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/8. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
i
m
m
■
W“BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. "W
Prof. Fowler's Human Science, 10/G. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/G.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions. I/- posted,- Gamblersl Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3.' Metal-Working for
Amyteurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1 /-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. • Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
■po=ted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter. 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang op
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING'
THfe POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 3G Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and°old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their phvsieian. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning .marriage, which makes it a verv
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for TEN SHILLINGS.
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every .Man His Own School-
Master. 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougali,
Topped the Score, & Other \ erses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. Tiie Watbacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don't be
Compare my
your cash.
fooled into paying: more,
prices with others and save
SKTEstablishecl 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for ray
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
1/- posted. New Thicks with Carus, 1/- Sappuc
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees
New Edition. 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary
8d posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoli/s Works.
8d" 27-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
nosted Chevassf/s Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted
Bread’ and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Assistant. 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works,, all at 5/6. posted
Fruits of Philosophy, is. post. 100 New Recita
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/ post 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
romnlete). 1/6 ported. The Age of Reason, by
PaTne posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, cheap Book Depot, 67 #69 Market Street, Sydney <only>


HO PUCK'S
MALTED MILK
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. Horlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
(TRY IT AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN W
*
GRAMOPHONE
New Records for
APRIL
\A9***n u
7K
Ask for Lists.
Now Ready
April brings Easter —and . entertainments!
The new records would give the maximum of pleasure in any musical
programme.
We quote merely a selection :
4-2702. Little Red House on
the Hill.
05578. Norwegian Bridal
March,
Mark Hambourg (Piano).
Nora D’Argel (Soprano
7-54002. Li Marinari (Rossini),
McCormack and Sammarco.
02032. Lorraine, Lorraine,
Lorree,
Stewart Gardiner (Baritone).
From “Follow the Crowd” Revue:
02040. Father Wanted Me to
Learn a Trade,
Robert Hale and Chorus.
01132. That Honolulu Guide,
Robert Hale (Talking).
01133. The Wireless Scene,
Tom Walls and Robert Hale
(Talking).
Complete lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest accredited
dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE’
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET- -SYDNEY
SAFEGUARD your health
QrJ.Collis Brownes
CWorodywe
Tlie Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
' ACTS LIKE A CHARM. IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, lIS, 31-, 5/-.
Made in England.
sd
recommend
WE
HORROCKSES'
S 3
\N9
J / = Zan/ie*etfeA
for SAFETY WEAR
and COMFORT
BORROCKSES'BORROCKSES
HORROCKSES 1 * HQRROCKSES’I
SHORT NAR
WELL TWISTED'YARN
SEE
"HORROCKSES*
ON
SELVEDGE
ORROC
DESCRIPTION. —Lady's 15ct. Gold Keyless Lever
Watch, set with Fine White Pearls; 15ct. Gold
Patent Expanding Bracelet. Price £l3/10/-
Ditto, 9ct. Gold, £lO/10/-
Stewart Dawson’s
New Catalogue
is as good as a, shop-window to
Country Residents; it gives such
a comprehensive idea of our
Unrivalled Values. \\ rite for a
Post Free Copy.
OUR DESIGNS
are so well selected, and the prices so economically
regulated, that the taste and pocket of the many
are easily met when choosing the Gift at Stewart
Dawson’s establishment.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P 2087. —Turquoise
and Pearl or Pink
Tourmaline & Pearl
Set 9ct. ' Gold
Pendant.
1 Price 35 /-
K 179. —Fine Dia-
mond 2-stone
Crossover Bing,
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
Price £B/10/-
,72909. —Garnet,
Peridot and Pearl
Set 9ct Gold
Pendant.
Price 21 / -
D 9899. —Fine
Diamond Cross-
over Ring, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
gsd
The mark ofsuperior
motor carsert/tce
ai
gsd
The mar* o/ superior,
motor carservici
The World’s Viewpoint on the Hupmobile
BECAUSE motor-car buyers have learned keenly to
judge values, the world-wide approval of the Hupmobile
is both interesting and important.
The car that wins everywhere the high favor accorded to the
Hupmobile must be the best in its class and the Hupmobile
is that.
It must be comfortable to the point of luxury—and the
Hupmobile is that also.
It must afford the maximum in roominess, convenience and
easy riding—as the Hupmobile does.
IT must be fast in the getaway, flexible and easily handled,
powerful for speed and for the hills and heavy roads,
silent and smooth-running.
And the Hupmobile is all these to an unusual degree.
Last, it must be economical to run and to keep—and Hup-
mobile reputation on that score is flawless.
Any Hupmobile dealer is ready to submit the car to any
reasonable demonstration you may require to convince you
—as thousands already know—that it outpoints any car in
its class.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
, „ , ... , . winter tr>DS Motor: Tour-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (32in. x s Jin.).
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 3-seater, sedan, and 5-seater anil 2-seater with detac a t bevel gear. Cam shaft and crank shaft bearings bronze shell, babbitt
Transmission: Three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch. Bear' Axie floating *yp , P 4jn (m 2 _* and 3 _ sea ter, 930 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 4Jin. on 7-seater. Electric
lined. Eong wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on ,-seater). Tyres 8.0 x 100 m, mor . . - curtain ca rriers; deep upholstery: speedometer; ammeter; robe rail, foot
starting and lighting; ventilating, rain vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting side curia , tof tools . Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki
rail and carpet in tonneau; non-skid tyres on rear; five demountable rims; t>re corner, pump, jam a
hood and seat covers at small additional cost over list price of car.
Hupp Motor-Car Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourm? ajlfl Geelong.
PHOENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


HOYTS PICTURES
Two features every night, 3 hours —12,000 feet of film —S to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown one week at
Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and ' Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
The Picture Block, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
[lf any unsigned pars, on this page require a
signature under a dunderheaded Commonwealth elec-
toral law, S. H. Prior, John Barr and E. O’Ferrall,
of 214 George Street, Sydney, accept the responsi-
bility.]
a
©
©
aar®
w
WHEN the full story of the excellence of our Motor
Ambulances comes to be written, it will be found that
the Challiner Patent Detachable Rims and Tyres have
contributed —not a little—to their perfect organisation.
ADOPTED BY THE ALLIED EORCES—you could not have a
better testimony to their value. Fit them to your car and save
time and annoyance.
CHALLINERS
Patent
THE SHREWSBURY S.T. and
CHALLINER TYRE CO., LTD ,
Ardwick, Manchester & London.
Detachable Rims
Represented by T. A. MEIKLE, Australasian Agents, 556 George Street, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINST
The Win-the-War party is merely trying
to bluff the peoples that it is a party. The
men who are running it know better. That
of course is why Hughes and Cook each
fought for a majority of members in the
Ministry. And that is also why Hughes has
been struggling and scheming for direct
representation on the Senate ticket. Neither
section trusts the other; each is fighting for
its own hand. Hughes wants to be able to
hold the .whip over the other lot —wants to
be able to say: “All right! You throw us
over, and so many men will follow me.
Then where’s your majority?”
The S. M. Herald makes a perfectly true
statement (March 24), which may be worth
remembering:—•
The P.L.L. is making a great mistake if it imag-
ines that that vote [on Conscription] represented any
desire to make an end of the war before complete
victory is assured. Conscriptionists and Anti-Con-
scriptionists alike, taking them by and large, have
no illusions as to what defeat in this war would
mean for us in Australia.
In other words, the S. M. Herald admits
that the Anti-Conscriptionist bus no more
illusions about what defeat would mean for
Australia than the Conscriptionist has. and
he is, in the main, just as desirous of con-
tinuing the war till complete victory is
assured. Which is a plain confession that
nine-ffenths of the claims made on behalf of
the Win-the-War Government are dishonest
electioneering claptrap.
“PHEWr
FATTY: “Gripes! Somebody's blankets are
turnin’!”
HIS MATE : “That ain’t blankets. That’s
Bluey, V.C., smoking the cigars ’is tart
sent ’im.”
If the Censorship were not controlled by
party politicians who are fighting an elec-
tion, it would drop like a thousand elephants
upon the people who, like “Thomas K.
Brown,” write such things as this in the S.
M. Herald:—
Think of this, you fathers and mothers and rela-
tives of the boys at the front. Their lives depend on
reinforcements to relieve them from too long a stretch
in the trenches. Yet these men would withhold that
succor, and penalise those who would send it. Yet
they dare ask the relatives of these brave lads to
vote for them to place them in a position where it
is possible to do them even a greater injury. There
can only be one answer to this.
The simple fact is that the Federal Labor
party while in office (that is to say, from
the deposition of Joe Cook to the retirement
of Tudor, Higgs and Gardiner, Assistant
Minister for Defence) enlisted over four-
fifths- —over eighty out of every huudred—of
the men who have got into khaki. Suppose
it were announced that the Prime Minister,
the Minister of Defence, Sir Dougins Haig,
and General Birdwood were opposed to any
more men being enlisted in Australia, would
that be “prejudicial to recruiting”? Would
that be passed? If it wouldn’t, why should
the other monstrous lie?
RETIRED BEATEN.
PRIVATE (sadly) : “Excuse me, sir, could I
have a couple of hours off —to go and
see my dying father?”
OFFICER (sternly): “Dying father? Why, I
left him not ten minutes ago!”
PRIVATE (hastily) : “Ten minutes ago! Sir,
you take the ban — lie’s been dead seven
years.”
Up to the end of last year Vic. had dis-
charged 0117 Billjims, and 112 of them —one
in every 55 or thereabouts—had been -planted
on the land. Perhaps, after all, it is just as
good a proportion as “the land,” under pre-
sent conditions, deserves. But no State
which hopes to make a success of itself can
afford to leave it at that. If present condi-
tions on the land are so unattractive, either
they will have to be altered or the State will
go broke—nothing is surer.
Listen to Prime Minister Hughes assuring
his brother-legislators that the Government
will do nothing rash in restricting the im-
portation of luxuries:—
It is well known that thousands of people are
employed in this country in the manufacture of silk
garments. If the Government prohibited the import-
ation of silk, and these people were thrown out of
work, the matter would be even more serious.
How like a Freetrader! It suggests that
scores of thousands of women would go
gownless if they couldn’t rustle around in
cheap silks, and that the very best females,
not to mention the very worst, must have
either silk undies or none at all. The ‘“thou-
sands of workers” couldn’t possibly be em-
ployed in making up materials other than
silk —Australian tweed dress stuffs, or local
woollens, for instance. No, a thousand
times, No!
They cabled to McGrath, Labor M.11.R.
of Ballarat, asking him whether he wouldn’t
join the Win-the-War party. He replied
from the trenches that he wouldn’t care to
be seen dead with that crowd. Whereupon
the Win-the-War party decided to oppose
McGrath of Ballarat. They’ll teach him to
go oft' fighting! Suppose he won the war,
what does he think they’d do for dust to
blind archbishops and other dull electors
with?
From a report in the Sydney Telegraph :
The Papal Delegate struck the table with his
stick. The clamor went on. The Archbishop raised
his hand to restore order. He was taken no notice
of.
It knocks holes through the bottom of the
story which the dailies have been encourag-
ing others to tell, without having the pluck
to tell themselves. Michael, poor fellow,
was held in the hollow of the praste’s hand;
and the praste lmd sold him to the Labor
party for promises received. That was the
story. Now the crowd says: “Here’s a
politician—and we don’t like him!” And
when Papal Delegate and Archbishop inter-
vene, the crowd brushes them aside, with:
“None of your business this, if you please.
Keep to your place, like any other citizen!”
Slain at the Assembly polls and yelping
ever since, Richard Denis Meagher, Mayor
of Sydney, ex-Speaker and former president
of the P.L.L. Richard, who used to imagine
he held the Phillip Division of Sydney “in
his pocket,” stood this time as (1) an in-
dependent Laborite, or (2) a "sympathetic
Nationalist,” according to the company he
was in. But it mattered nothing, anyway.
The inhabitants of Phillip flung him and his
cigar and his "great services to the Democ-
racy” ifito the dustbin and banged down the
lid with the weight of a 2 to 1 majority. St.
Denis fits the bin much better than he did
the Speaker’s chair.
Disgusted with the Jokook crowd for
fusing with Hughes, Givens, W. G. Spence,
Josh Thomas and others whom the Argus
lias for years taught them to hate and mis-
trust, several Liberal leagues in Victoria
contemplate running candidates of their
own. instead of accepting anybody the Win-
the-Spoils party likes to foist upon them.
When the Argus —sturdy advocate of free-
dom of thought and action—heard of this it
remarked:—•
The vote-splitter must not be treated with gentle-
ness. lie forfeits all claim to consideration by reason
of his faithlessness. No heresy-hunting will be coun-
tenanced by Liberals, neither will they attempt to
punish men for acting according to conscience; but
the vote-splitter must not blame anyone but himself
if, as the penalty of his own perfidy, he is for ever
shunned as an enemy by the organised forces opposed
to the Caucus.
Of course! The Liberal who won't allow
that Josh Thomas, for instance, is a proper
Liberal candidate when the machine says lie
is, is a scab whose life must be made a hell
for him. And all the time a little man will
go around talking about the intolerable
tyranny of the Labor “junta,” and begging
for votes as a protest against it! And the
Archbishop of Sydney pollutes his cathedral
by giving his blessing in it to a crowd as
dirty as that.
The Liberal attitude, which bears a strong
family resemblance to the Labor attitude,
has been plainly stated by the Argus after
consideration of the situation at Ilenty,
Fawkner and Echuca, where there are three
or more candidates in the field :
There is no room to-day for the independent candi-
date. A candidate is either for the Win-the-War
Government or against it; and so are all the electors.
Independence is down and out, apparently,
with Labor sitting on its chest and Lib-
Labism patriotically squeezing its weasaud
lest the miserable creature get off some silly
shriek about Freedom.
What is there to be said in defence of a
Senate elected on the block-vote system,
whereby it is possible for 1,000,000 voters to
be "deprived of all representation in the “dem-
ocratic” House of Review by 1,000,000?
Phil Belirend, a good Australian with a
name that doesn’t matter, is up agaiust
Willy Watt, at Balaclava (Vic.). Jack Cur-
tain, now in charge of the Westbalian
Worker, failed to oust Willy last time.
Belirend is an electrician, and was sent to
Cockatoo Dock, Sydney, last year to do some
special work on the cruiser Brisbane and
the hospital ship Ivaroola. He unsuccess-
fully opposed Norman Bailleau for the
cream-puff dfcronghold of Toorak at last
State elections.
DANTE UP TO DATE.
“I found me in a gloomy wood, astray, gone from the path direct.” —The Inferno.
Everything or thereabouts that is ever
done by any Government of which Mr.
Hughes is Prime Minister is done by Mr.
Hughes. For instance, Mr. Hughes bought
the Commonwealth wheat-steamers in Eng-
land ; nobody else had apparently any say
in the matter. Now, however, the Auditor-
General’s report discloses that Ministers
considered the matter this end, and that it
was W. G. Higgs, then Treasurer, who
authorised the Commonwealth Bank to hold
at the disposal of the Prime Minister in
-f i pn kaa aaa /» «-» * ■ t> oc?
London f 0 ,500,000 for the purchase of — O
steamers for the Government.
Auditor-General Israel has dug out another
instance of the Defence Department’s busi-
ness methods. A soldier deserted —in Aus-
tralia—in October, 11)14, but this little detail
jvas overlooked, and the allotment money
was paid out regularly for 13 months. Pro-
bably that is why—but, no; we mustn’t men-
tion it. It might prejudice recruiting—the
recruiting of supporters for the new Con-
fusion Ministry.
QUITE SAFE.
MISS STRIPEY : “You sailors must run ter-
rible risks in war time!”
JACK: “Oh, no. We don't get so much shore
leave now, y’know.”
llow they do fear the people! No sooner
hud the first cable arrived regarding the
boil-over in Russia than a Confusion sup-
porter in the Reps. was put up to ask if in
view of the situation in Petrograd the Gov-
ernment would "reconsider its determination
to send the Parliament to the country at
such a serious juncture.” But it couldn't
be done; and the House was shut before
the Government had time to consider
whether, in view of a really serious dog-
fight in Collarendebri, it wasn’t an act of
madness and disloyalty to plunge the coun-
try into the turmoil of a general election.
The Lutherans of South Aus., a strong
religious body founded by the German
settlers of 70 years ago, are to have all then-
schools closed, under last year’s Act, before
the end of 1017. A deputation to the Pre-
mier, who is also Minister of Education, has
asked him to stay his hand till Parlia-
ment can have a chance to reconsider. They
accept (they said) the mandate that all
teaching must be in English; but for a Gov-
ernment to insist on more would be
“bigotry.” In other words, they put it that
it is a religious question, not a national one.
But Vaughan wasn’t taking any of that.
“No,” he syid, “Australia wants citizens
who don’t segregate themselves into factions,
but are members of a full and free democ-
racy.” And then he threw at them, to knock
them off the “religious” perch, the example
of the Methodists, who don’t ask for separate
schools. Which, of course, settles it; for
anything the Methodists do in S. Aus. is
right. ' __
THE VITAL ISSUES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Mr. George Fairliairn the people of Victoria
have the choice of a candidate for the Senate who
combines the qualities essential to a legislator in
these serious times. Mr. Fairbairn is one who has
always bec-n recognised, in athletics as a ‘‘good
sport.” Both tennis and golf have been played by
him, and every amateur sport has held his whole-
hearted support.—Aitovs, 22/3/’l7.
Look on that picture and on this,
Then say which you would choose.
Of tariffs and economy
This Labor person prates, but lie
Does not set forth his views
On “goff,” or say what he will do.
To help the tennis season through.
A quaint, misguided energy
Into the fight he flings,
And talks, with tongue that will not flag,
Of senators who’re “in the hag,”
And other smellful things.
But not a word ho speaks of subs
For any of our sporting clubs!
‘‘Do you desire to win the war ?”
“What have you done for sport?”
Ask of each candidate these two
Plain questions, and you’ll soon know who
Will best hold freedom's fort.
I mean*to vote, though critics scoff,
For Fairbairn, Liberty and—“ Goff” 1
[Typewritten by B. J. Harrison Owen', Elwood,
Vic., jwtt opposite the Methodist Church.]


NOVELS for the
loud b&gkjl
A.I.F.
The Editor of The Bulletin “Red
Page” set out some time ago to dis-
cover what Australians in the trenches
preferred to read. This is the reply
of a Lieut.-Colonel in command of an
Australian battalion (printed in
Bulletin. 1/3/’ 17) :
i-li-4 L
“There is a great hankering after anything Australian; and I
think the Bookstall Series would please Billjim more than
anything else.”
Many thousands of the famous shilling Bookstall novels have already been forwarded
to Australians on the various fronts. They are the ideal reading for the Australian
soldier—great novels of life in the continent they know so well.
1|- each. ALL ONE PRICE. 1/1 posted.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
The Best of Australian Writers Represented:
Write 'the Publishers, who will recommend the best novels to forward.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
4-76 George Street,
—— SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
JJEGAL
g
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N Z. 2/6.)
Some Excellent Regal Records
at 2/- each (double-sided).
6012
5 Boys of the Dardanelles Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
| What do You Think of Australia N0w?..... ~ ~ „
6440
Peg o’ My Heart ...* Irving Gillette, tenor.
You Have Always Been the Same Oltl Pal ~ » »
0804
f Farewell,
( Cheer Up,
Isabelle Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
Molly
6815
f Your King and Country Want You
I Fall In
Stanley Kirk by, baritone.
6820
Here We Are, Here We Are, Here We' Are Again . . Stanley. Kirkby, baritone.
The Flag that Never Comes Down Harrison Latimer, baritone.
«BG4
J We’re Really l’routl of You Stanley Klrkby, baritone.
(Tell My Daddy to Come Home Again •» » «
0807
( Here We Are Again, March
{Now, Are We All Here? Yew! March
King’s Military Baml.
0880
\ When I Dream of Old Erin
( Just a Little Bit of Breen
Walter van Brunt, tenor.
. John E. Meyer, baritone.
7011
It’s a Long, Long Way to Tipperary Alexander Prince, concertina.
La Marseillaise 1 » » »
7137
j Jeremiah Dlddler Fred Bluett, comedian.
I Boy Scout, Burlesque >. >. »
7105
f The Song That stole My Heart Away Harry McClaskey, tenor.
i Years Ago » » »
7202
I Blue Eyes
I A .Little Bit of Heaven
Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
7223
S Under the Union .lack, March
} Australian War Songs March
Jlanil of H.M. Scots Guards.
7237
National Emblem March
Distant Greeting March .
Silver Stars Band.
7268
The Story the Angelus Told Stanley Kirkby k baritone.
Swinging High, Swinging Low ~ »
7270
f Boys of the Dardenelles March
{ High School Cadets March .. .
Band of lI.M. Scots Guards.
Silver Stars Band.
7280
f Australia Will Be There Stanley Itirkby, baritone.
I Australia Will Be There, March .. Band ot H.M. Welsh Guards, vocal chorus.
<291
A Perfect Day Frank Webster, tenor.
Somewhere a Voice Is Calling, duet Grace Kerns & Herbert Stuart.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
gVDNEI', N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, IV.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. ,
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
Your car, as well as your Tyres, will last
longer when Tyres are Full-Sized.
WHEN Tyres are Under-sized they must be Over-
inflated- —in order to properly carry the Load.
Over-inflated Tyres “ride roughly,” trans-
mitting excessive Vibration from every pebble
and rut in the road.
The continuous strain of high Air-pressure on the
Fabric of such Tyres, while not in evidence when the
Tyres are new, in the end seek out the weakest snots,
developed through the heat of Friction, and through con-
tinual flexing of Tyre Walls in much Mileage.
Then, we have the Early “Burst” or the Premature
Puncture—with which all Motorists are familiar.
The needless expense of these could, in large
measure, be avoided by the logical use of Tyres which are
FULL-SIZED- —large enough to carry the Load without
need for excessive Inflation.
IT may here interest the Header to know that practi-
cally ALL Millimeter Tyres made (except Goodrich
Tyres) are much UNDER-SIZED.
If he doubts this he has only to measure the cross-
section Diameters of the Tyres, when new, on his Car,
and see.
He will find, for instance, that the so-called
“SI 5 x 105 m/m” Tyres measure only 00, 97, 98. 99 or
103 millimeters in diameter when new (according to
make) instead of the 105 m/m they are branded.
Since the Walls and Treads of these Under-sized
Tyres are just as thick as if they bad been made FULL-
SIZED (or up to their specified diameters) it will be
evident that the shortage in Tyre cross-section Diameter
is entirely a Shortage of Air-capacity.
And, since Air-capacity, in proportion to weight of
Car, is what determines RESILIENCE, it will be
apparent that any deficit in Tyre cross-section Diameter
:
results in such excessive vibration as to seriously tax the
longevity of the CAR, and the Comfort of its Occupants
—out of all proportion to the amount saved in making
Tyres UNDER-SIZED instead of FULL-SIZED.
THE Manufacturers of Goodrich Tyres now break
through tradition, and build all their rubber-tread
Goodrich Tyres FULL-SIZED.
This regardless of Trade Custom, or the greater cost
of supplying full-sized Tyres to the Public at prices that
compare favorably, for similar quality, with prices which
all other Makers charge for regular Millimeter (or
Under-sized) Tyres.
Such a marked difference exists between the PER-
FORMANCE of Full-sized Tyres and thrt of Under-
sized Tyres, on the same Cars, that the Public are
expected to promptly realise it, when Full-sized Tyres are
once offered by a reliable Maker.
Volume of Sales may then be expected to compensate
for the lesser profit, per Tyre.
Goodrich Tyres will therefore be found to measure
precisely the number of millimeters, in cross section
Diameter, that their “Size-classification” pretends to
have.
They will measure this while new, and unstretched.
CAR-OWNERS are invited to use, without charge,
the Goodrich Compensating Tyre Scale (to be
found at every Goodrich Dealers), and thereby
■find out whether or not THEIR Tyres ARE
UNDER-SIZED.
A revelation in Comfort and in Economy on Mileage-
Cost then awaits them, through use of Goodrich FULL-
SIZED Tyres.
Why accept less Resilience and Longevity than would
be delivered by the Air-capacity you PAY for?
GOODRICH
FULL-
SIZED
DUVAL <& CO.,
13 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
145 COLLINS STREET, MELBOLRNF.
300 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
Tyres


Although the Goddess of Right smiteth
not in full force until the eleventh hour, that
hour must now be striking, inspireth that
wise spirt King George IV. top-notch Scotch.
—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORUE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
UMP
r.
The Trusty Triumph is
a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
sdsg
Agents:
Bennett 8 Barkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
At the present time the whole of
our productions are requisitioned _ dj
the British War Office and the Bar
Offices of the Allies.
TOTALISAT OR.
Racing Clubs are advised that the Turnbull
and Jones, Ltd., of New Zealand, Totali-
sator can now be seen at W. G. Watson
and Co., Ltd., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Turnbull and Jones, Ltd., have supplied
Machines to all the principal clubs in New
Zealand, and their experience extends over
a period of 20 years. Mr. Seager, their
representative, will be pleased to make
appointments and supply full information.
SPOSTING
NOTIONS
Rosehill Racing Club’s Rawson Stakes
(9 furlongs, w.f.a.) run on Saturday was mainly
remarkable for the good performance registered by
Giru. There was a good field (Bombata, Lingle,
Quinologist, Harriet Graham and others ran) and
most of the money was for Cetigne, who was backed
down to 7 to 4. ' Giru was at 4’s, Melii King and
Lingle at 6’s and 7’s. Giru (9st. 21b.) beat Cetigne
(9st.) fair and square, and may perhaps have had a
little in hand. Lingle (9st.) came fast from the
lmckblocks over the last couple of furlongs and
finished third. Why the public rushed Cetigne was
not clear in view of his performance on the previous
Saturday and that he looked a trifle dull. Giru
was perhaps never better than he is just now, and
if this run cannot be taken as giving him a big
chance in tbe Doncaster Handicap with Bst. 131 b.
then form and condition go for nothing. A couple
of weeks, though, plight to put Cetigne well forward.
Quinologist ran on well for a mile. He, too, will
be a better-conditioned animal at Randwick than he
was last week..
* * * *
Of tbe horses engaged in big events
at Randwick two performed exceptionally well at
Jlosphill on Saturday—Spurn and Chantemerle,
winners of the Railway Stakes (7 furlongs) and the
Club Handicap (1 mile and 3 furlongs). Both
were backed at 3’s, a circumstance which made the
discerning individuals who mopped up 100’s to 4
from the double merchants when the early doors
opened feel happy and glad. Spurn after disquali-
fication last year was sent to the harem, but missed.
Puti into work again it seemed doubtful if she was
going to recover form, but Saturday’s gallop knocked
that idea clean over the ropes. She carried 9st. 21b.
and beat First Principle (9st. 31b.) by half a length.
Both mav be having something to say in the Don-
caster, and if First Principle is not arguing the point
somewhere near the end this page is going to bn
mildly surprised. Bonnie Plume was doing well
for six furiongs and then seemed to be satisfied that
the trip was far enough.
Chantemerle won with Bst. 131 b. in record time
for the course (2min. 201 sec.). The week had im-
proved him a lot. lie will be still brighter at Rand-
wick if all goes well. Whether he can appropriate
the -Cup is another matter. That he is a brilliant
horse admits of no doubt, but 9st. 51b. is a thump-
ing big weight to carry over two miles, and Chante-
merle had done nothing to deserve it.
* * * *
On the first day of the Rosehill meeting
the • stewards read the Riot Act to the mannikin
placed in charge of Dear Laddie and told him that
if he rode as bad a race again his name would be
Mud. On Saturday another youth was lifted aboard
this nag in the Parramatta Mile and persuaded
Dear Laddie to win from end to end. He carried
Bst. 811). and ran the distance in “411,” which was
a good enough spin to draw attention to the fact
that the horse has 7st. 71b. in the Doncaster. Dear
Laddie is well enough bred to do anything, being
by Ayr Laddie-Bright Alice, but seems to have been
annoyed that 1800 guineas was paid for him as a
yearling. He fell at Randwick a year ago and a
vet. cut away most of his lower jaw to make him
better.
* • * *
A moke that may be heard of again is the
two-year-old Prince Yiridis, the property of “Baron”
Brown, who bred him. Earlier in the year Prince
Viridis ran a good second to Lady Comely at Rand-
wick. On Saturday he landed the bacon at Rosehill
in the second Juvenile Handicap in a style which
suggested something later on. The unlucky King o’
Malt was second, and as the Prince gave him. 101 b.
tbe win was worth taking notice of. Incidentally
people prior to this race threw away their boots in
the rush to invest on Fight Ever, a recent winner
up Newcastle way. They didn’t see their coin any
more. Prince Yiridis is by the Baron’s old-time
champion Prince Foote from the imported mare La
Crosse.
* * * *
Until the Rosehill meeting finished, Ike
found business on the Doncaster and Sydney Cup as ,
lively as a drowned kitten. But there was some-
thing doing at the bargain-counter during the week,
and from this it transpired that Spurn, Giru, White-
field and Cetigne were looked on with greatest
favor by punters. There was also money for
Balarang, First Principle, King’s Bounty and Polv-
crates. Woorak has been going to a longer price,
and the stock of Bonny Plume and CPstello found ■
buyers in limited quantity. These, positions may
change a little before tbe day of the thud. Court
Jester has had most backing for the Cup. Harriet
Graham and Lingle come next.
* * * *
The A..T.C. notifies that conditions and
added cash for the Spring handicaps of 1917 and
the classic events up to 1919 will remain
as heretofore, with the exception that the
Sires’ Produce Stakes nominator gets a rise in
pocket-money from £lOO to £250. The embargo (in
operation since 1913) keeping geldings out of the
Derby is lifted. Next year, therefore, colts and
geldings will struggle under the same weight (Bst.
121 b.) for the £5OOO.
. - * *
“Trojus” : How is this for a series of coin-
cidences? On a recent Saturday at Caulfield, in the
South Yarra Handicap, the AVclkin horse Three was
No. 3 on the card, drew position No. 3, and though
quoted 7-2 and 4-1 in the papers, the best price the
writer heard at the start was 3-1. Finally the nag
finished third.
* * *
“Trot”: Take the absurd two or three
hundred pounds put through the machine at Kembla
Grange and Gosford (N.S.W.) and compare with the
figures for meetings in Maoriland if you want to
have a laugh. At meetings of similar size over
vonder £BOOO would be a small trunover. There
were races at Napier Park (M.L.) the other day, and
on the first afternoon £16,385 went through the tote.
Napier Park is not rushed by millions, either. There
would be about as many people at the meeting as
attend Rosehill, and not nearly so keen a betting
crowd, as a rule.' Now let the tote be operated
at Rosehill under the existing regulations,
which make the opposition of MacShortodds compul-
sory if there is to be any racing at all. Can any-
one imagine that £16,000 would be tinkled up? I
don’t want to bet, but would be ready to lay a
dollar to 2'd. that a fourth of that sum would not be
dealt with. But there are no Ikes at Napier Paik,
and the Government doesn’t kill the machine before
it starts to do business.
If the Australian horse has a bad time in
competition with the English nag, the animal born
hereabouts does well enough in Maoriland. Biplane
and Bimeter, acquired in Australia by G. D. Green-
wood, have this season won £4500 m stakes, and
may do more when the Spring comes. Achilles, one
of the best middle-distance horses ever raced in the
Windy Isles (G. G. Stead reckoned him the best),
was bred in N. S. Wales, and not only did he win
races but'he kept on doing it for a long time.
A weird yarn was published the other day
about a parsonical politician in Maoriland who,
wanting to give racing an uppercut, told a story of
a friend desiring to get a cavalry-charger for use in
the war, and being “told by an expert not to buy a
racehorse.” Therefore this simple soul believed he
had evidence that “racers are no good in time of
war.” Obviously the man who wanted to rush off to
the wars on Desert Gold or Sasanoff, or go prancing
away astride of Patrobas, ought to be provided with
a keeper. Racehorses are not chargers, and no one
ever thought they were. But they are thoroughbreds
—the foundation' of the remount in all countries on
earth “The better bred a horse is the better it is
for work of any kind. Than the thoroughbred horse
there is no gamer or more enduring animal. The
mongrel is—well, just a mongrel. Racing or no
racing, it is certain that without the thoroughbred
strain the horse goes back to a mere weed.
* * *
Watch out for the M.V.R.C. The old-
established Moonee Valley (Vic.) racecourse, run
hitherto as a proprietary concern, has decided to
become a properly-constituted club.
* * * *
“Mulruana”: During a race at the Mel-
bourne Trotting Club’s meeting at Richmond one
sulky came into contact with another and capsized.
Two others also turned turtle. One of the fallen
nags quickly extricated himself from half a sulky
and galloped off attached to the remainder in the
opposite direction to that taken by what was left of
the field. Things looked in apple-pie order for a
head-on collision till an official, Bert McCabe,
dashed at the runaway, caught the reins, and steered
the animal clear of the oncoming competitors. It
was a courageous thing to do, and swiftly done.
* * * *
Albert Lloyd is a hefty youth whom the
Sydney Stadium first took notice of as a middle-
weight. Owing to the young man’s habit of tying
himself up he got hurt and adjourned. He is back
now, bigger and wiser, and contending for the heavy-
weight championship. On Saturday lie had a dispute
with Colin Bell and within ssec. Colin found himself
contending with what seemed like 14 locomotives.
Lloyd hit him hard and often, and, powerful man
though Bell is, the other was the stronger m clinches.
The first round ended without a decisive smite. In
the second Llovd leaped at Bell like a hungry bear
and handed out such an assortment of bash that
Colin’s bald head was brought in sorrow to the
mat. Lloyd meets Dave Smith next, on which occa-
sion both parties will have to be on the alert for
contingencies. , #
Billy Monty, who had been helping to
biff Abdul, was severely biffed by Bobby Gfaham at
Brisbane on Saturday. It was a battle of giants,
one turning the scale at 7st. 111 b. and the otb.er at
Bst. Bobby knew too much about the fine points
of the business and -plastered William with straight
lefts wdiich turned the youth’s dial into something
like a sunset. There was always the chance that one
of Billjim’s swings would cause a sudden adjourn-
ment, but hopes of its arrival evaporated in the
19tli round when his hand turned dog on him. It
probably wouldn’t have made any difference,
So, according to a cable message received
the other day, it has come to this: “Darcy
is considering a match with George Chip, at Mil-
waukee.” Having knocked Chip cold in Sydney
the deed must be repeated on the other sicl.e of the
world. Darcy stock seems to be doing a slide.
* * * *
“Carfax” : Will nobody throw a banana or
something at these people who are always moaning
about the iniquity of “sport” while a war is on r
In the name of Heaven how will it help the war to
come our way if people, young' and old, start accumula-
ting fat and learning to play the guitar? Sport (of
course no one includes all these ridiculous little race
meetings which are to be objected to on grounds
altogether apart from war) is one of the nation s
greatest assets in relation to defence, and so far
from being decried ought to be encouraged more than
ever. If the war has shown anything at all it is
that from among footballers, swimmers, runners,
tennis players and so on —that great body of healthy,
vigorous manhood which keeps itself fit and eager——
the very finest military material has been secured.
Snort in Australia keeps thousands of young men in
good health lit an age when the value of this cannot
be estimated 'in terms of cash or anything else. Why
throw cold water on the kids who are coming to
maturity? Shut down on athletics and they will
take to pastimes they would be 100 per cent, better
for knowing nothing about. #
The annual report of the Metropolitan
Rugby Union (N.S.W.) is a mournful document.
Qn one page is a memorial table of .those affiliated
players who have died on active service. There are
101 names on the list. Over the line at last 1^
Lisle Lane, killed in France, came from
Orange (N.S.W.), where he was a crack footballer.
“Paddy” Lane, now deceased, one of the best-known
players for the Wallaroos in Sydney years ago, was
a brother. Young Lane joined the A.I.F. as private,
and worked up to two stars. He was in the Land-
ing, and was wounded next day. Fever sent him
back to hospital after he had rejoined his mates ; and
when he got over that the battalion had gone to
France. A bullet gave him a third spell in hospi-
tal; but be was back again in the Somme trenches
before the Last Post sounded. Age, 24.
* * * *
“Haka”: Passed up at Oafnaru (M.L.),
Chummy Noel, a once widely-known Maoriland toe-
baller. In the days of such famous players as
Taiaroa, Lvnch and Kehoe, Noel played wing three-
quarter for Otago Province, and was about the
speediest thing that ever wriggled into a jersey. One
of his matches was against the English team in ’BB.
•In more recent times Chummy converted himself
into a fielder, hut when the Act was passed nullify-
ing the legalisation of the bookmaking industry he
paid out and reached for his hat. He was 53 when
the whistle sounded.
* * * *
A . 13-year old youngster named Viney,
touring with Sydney schoolboys recently, bagged 22
wickets for 32 runs in two matches at Bathurst.
» * * *
When Sydney, playing against Western
Suburbs, closed their premiership innings on Satur-
day at 403 for nine wickets, Jimmy Taylor seized a
bat and proceeded to smite the Sydney bowling. The
Suburbs crumbled away at 277, but James was going
strong to the last, finishing with 126 not out. This
was his second century in the season, and brought his
average for 10 innings to 58. Last year he made 622
runs, averaging 41.66 per innings.
■* * * *
Richard Teece, who has just surrendered
the job of running the A.M.P. Society, was secre-
tary of the N. S. Wales Cricket Association half a
century ago. Joseph Clayton was in the chair before
Teece.' Both did much to get the Ass. up on its.
legs. Teece also had a hand in founding the Sydney
’Varsity oval, and was behind an oar in the first
inter-’Varsity boatrace in the early ’7o’s.
* * * *
E. S. Collins, Bananaland’s breast-stroke
champion for 1917, last week won the 100yds. in
lmin. 21 4-ssec. (2 2-ssec. outside the State record)
and the 220yds. in 3niin. 25 2-ssec. He was a com-
plete stranger to championship efforts before he
defeated Brett (last year’s champion), Springfield
and Thurlow ; but he seems to be a hustler who may
lie hard to separate from his title.
“Surf Bather”: Swimming is a most
democratic sport; yet if you start hunting amongst
the champions or near-champions for people named
Smith, or Brown, or Jones, or Robinson, you can t
find one of them. In England the great swimmers
have been E. C. Daniels, Nuttall, Tyers, Jarvis, 11.
and J. P. Taylor, Davenport, Billington and Bat-
tersby. The Jones family appears twice on the lists
in the remote past, when the sport was much less
democratic than it is now, W. Blew-Jones winning
the 100yds. in 1883, and T. Jones the 220yds. in
1889. On Australia’s roll of great swimmers are the
names of Cavil], Kieran, Beaurepaire, Hardwick,
Lane, Springfield, Wickham, Healey, H. Baker and
Solomon ; but no member of the numerous family of
Smith has put in an appearance. It is the same in
America. There are dozens of Smith boxers and
footballers, but the family seems to shy at the wet.
* * * *
Alone amongst ladies’ swimming clubs in
Victoria, N. S. Wales and Queensland, that of
Brighton (Vic.) bars men as spectators. Conse-
quently its “open” fixture the other day was not
open even to reporters. When the new Victorian
Ladies’ Amateur Swimming Association approved of
the trousered brigade attending, all meetings, the
Brighton club gathered its skirts about its lower
limbs and withdrew, fleciding henceforth to float “on
its own.” As a result, no Vic. female champions or
other leading swimmers competed at the recent
Brighton carnival. Nevertheless, according to the
treasurer, it was every way the most successful since
the club made its first splash. #
Successful lady bowlers are not generally
what the fashion reporter would call modish. But
a refreshing exception has just turned up under the
hat of Mrs. Arthur Paterson, of lvew (Vic.), who has
downed all other competitors for the coveted lady
“champion of champions” trophy in Melbourne. The
victorious young matron is plump, pretty and charm-
ing, and seems an absurd waste of good looks in a
bowling tournament. She would be an enormous
success selling tuppenny trifles for a shilling at a
charity carnival.
Ashfield beat City for the Sydney bowls
pennant by the quite unexpected margin of 38, the
suburbanites winning in every rink. A margin of
38 in a first-class bowls contest is equal to a 10
wickets’ victory at cricket, and the downfall of the
City cracks is still a cause of wonderment where
they live and rejoicing where the winners take
refreshment.
* * * »
Down at Blackman’s Bay (Tas.) the
fishermen don’t, as a rule, bother about barracouta ;
there’s more money in crayfish and trumpeter. But
lately they started to catch the ’couta. “You see,”
one of ’em explained, “the blamed things come into
the bay so thick they blocked us from, getting out,
and we had to fish lanes through.”
* * * *
“,T.G.”: Blackfish, although apparently a
different variety to that of the Monaro streams men-
tioned by “Wattle” (B. 15/3/’l7), are indigenous
to most Vic. creeks and rivers running south of the
Dividing Range. Like that of its N. S. Wales
cousin, the flesh is excellent eating. Unfortunately
it is being cleared out of its home by imported
(English and Scottish) trout. The fool Vic. Fish-
eries Department has introduced the energetic enemy
to nearly every stream in the State, all in the in-
terests of ’aughty tourists who arrive in crowds of
two or three a month.
* * * *
“Rodds”: What are these pikers talking
about with their tremendous struggles with 51b.
trout caught with “any old bait” and their jewfish
turning the scale at 71b. or lewt., or something?
Why, they don’t know what fish are, and the man
who says that the rainbow rises to any old grub
tossed in after him ought to be fined for perjury. The
rainbow or any other trout is as particular about his
meals as a lady’s poodle. I know, because I’ve
pursued the trout where he is a fish, not a smelt, and
that is iti Maoriland. There you can annex the rain-
bow running up to 161 b., 181 b. and 201 b. ; and on
these occasions he is worth looking at. I once took
an Australian fishing near Tokaanu, and when he had
caught two brown trout each as long as his leg he
knocked off, rushed away with his fish in pursuit of
a photographer, and had himself reduced to a picture
holding one in each hand. Then he spent the rest
of the day writing home about what had happened to
him. As for jewfish—well, nobody would go for jewy
who ever went after kingfish off Cape Brett.
* * * *
“T.F.” : An old-man tuna tackled a bather
in a Central Otago pool the other day and very
nearly got him under. The eel, explained the badly-
scared swimmer, secured a fighting-hold on the back
of the left ankle and shook the owner like a cat
worrying a mouse. The cannibal was kicked and
shaken off with difficulty. Maybe this explains some
mysterious drownings in the M.L. backblocks. A
4ft. eel is a powerful brute, with something of the
python in his build and strength. But this tuna
was small-fry compared with Jimmy Carroll’s cham-
pion of the Waikaremoana country. Timi’s yarn,
which no doubt he took with him to the Cold Coun-
try, to the envy of all pakeha anglers, is that it took
a hundred Maori braves, bare to the buff, to haul
this specimen into shallow water and make the line
fast to the scenery till the morning, and that when
daylight came the fish or devil had disappeared,
taking with him a quarter of a mile of the four-wire
fence with big straining-post attached. Some people
doubt the word of the ex-Minister for Native Affairs ;
but, then, some people would doubt the Miracles.
“Teacher” : Who can account for a cod
without eyes? He weighed 121 b. when I landed him.
but how he took the bait beats me. Have n-!i a
sense of smell ? *
* * * *
“Izaak’ f : Schnapper or snapper? Dampier
wrote of catching “snappers” in 1699, and took
mentioned capture of “the snapper kind in 1< iU.
Professor Morris, of Melbourne, in his Austral-English
dictionary, writes that “snapper” was the original
form derived from snapping- Fishermen, perhaps ol
Dutch origin, bagged “schnapper” (from schnapps ).
It was first printed thus, according to Morns, m
Tenison Wood’s “Fish of N. S. Males’ (188 i). A
search in old N. S. Wales Government Gazette shows
only “snapper.’ ,
“H.V.E.”: The rarest wild duck is, I
think, the freckled duck, who is but a casual
visitor to N. S. Wales from Westralia. I have twice
shot this bird on Monaro in wet seasons. It new in
company with black duck, and occurred but singli.
Color, dark brown, freckled minutely with grey, in
size it is about equal to a well-bred black duck.
The blue-winged shoveller and pink-ear are other
chance visitors to the tablelands. One dry season
out West I marked down a vast flock of shovel-bill-
in a Monaro waterhole. and with an ancient muzzle-
loading duck gun slew nine in one shot. Ihe
charge, four drams diamond-grain powder and 2oz.
shot, blew the nipple out of the somewhat rust-eaten
slow-flrer, and deposited the gunner on Ins back among
thistles; but there was a fine load of duck-meat to
supply the next meal or two. #
“Eryander” : Those “misguided gun-entlm-
siasts” * who told “Foolar” to aim in front of the
hurrying target (B. 22/3/’l7) were absolutely right
in principle, though either they were wrong in their
deductions or “Foolar” erred in the application ol
their advice. With 45 grains of smokeless powder
No, 6 shot travels 40 yards in l-20th of a second,
and in that time our “black-cheek falcon coveung,
at top-speed, 120 ft. in a second—would have moved
Oft The figures speak for themselves, and failuie
comes from the fact that few men can .judge cross-
distance as accurately as distance in the line of sight,
A try for this Oft. would in most cases mean an ami
of 12, 15 or even 20 feet ahead of the bird. Its the
eve that errs, not the mathematics. #
* * * *
11. J. Parsons’s attempt to fracture the
Sydnev-Melbourne motor-cycle record last, week was
a tussle between bad roads and the machine—and the
bad roads won. Parsons whizzed off from Sydney
GP O with a time schedule arranged to wipe out
.Tim’ Bolger’s 23hr. 41min., and seriously threaten
Boyd Edkins’s car record of'lGhr. 55min. But after
half a dozen smashes and the discovery of a broken
chain at Avenel (62 miles from Melbourne) the time
schedule fell in a heap. So did Parsons; and lie had
a few days in hospital to ruminate on whether it
was all worth while. „
* * *
“M PA”- Clarence Weber gave a show of
strength 'and agility at Melbourne Town Hall the
other night and astonished the house, with In-
fests. Never since his entry into the strong-man
business has this remarkable athlete looked more im-
pressive. He emptied his bellows down to 364 in.
and blew ’em up to slHn. ; incidentally he worked
bis lungs independently, breathing with one-and hold-
ing the other quite still—a feat in the business. To
illustrate strength and balance he spun a bar, with
a small boy clinging to each end, on the ball of his
foot while reclining oil his back. His high-kicking
reached 9ft., and other samples of nimbleness took
the form of leaping, a good-sized kitchen-table at a
standing jump, and hopping through the curve of Ins
]e | >’ while holding the toe of tlvc foot. This capri
was done backwards and forwards. Webei lias gbou
up the shifting of vast quantities of pig-iron—a
dull game at which he excelled some years ago. IDs
muscle-control is wonderful, and the muscles them-
selves are as soft and pliable as a child s. Clarence,
who was born at Brighton (Vic.), started as an
amateur foot runner and won many good pots. He
next tackled cycling, and won several championships,
besides riding a. mile in 2min., off scratch, in n
handicap. In weight-lifting he made some records,
and he collared the cateh-as-catch-can championship
at the same time. He is equal to better than. 20ft.
at a broad jump, besides winning-events at hammer-
throwing, shot-putting, high-jumping, vaulting, hurd-
ling, walking, sheaf-tossing and other minor caper-.
Given a good track he can lump his 14st. 41b. ovei a
hundred in five to six yards worse than evens.
Writer has watched this big Australian grow from
the first moment lie lifted a weight in public, and the
things he can do to-dav make’ some of the imported
athletes in vaudeville look cheap. Incidentally, Weber
is a good citizen with a family of six, very muon
after his own looks.


LEARN HOW TO BOX
I,
S
Jki ,
K.
TO-DAY—NOW!
The feav of getting- a thrashing prevents many a man from asserting his
manliness when the occasion for doing so arrives.
Have .YOU the necessary confidence in your ability to take your own
part in the world—to assert your manliness the moment you are called
upon to do so?
A knowledge of Boxing, such as I impart to you through my course of
Postal Instruction, will give you confidence in yourself and ability to
deliver a sound thrashing to any aggressive fellow who may cross your
path.
I Teach Boxing by Post.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable move in scientific boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years' experience
and keen observation of the moves of the world’s best
boxers.
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods,
terms, etc. Just write your name across this adver-
tisement, and send three penny stamps for postage.
I will know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
594 Belmont Buildings
SYDNEY.
My CIGARILLOS
are a Fine Smoke.
Send for a trial lot —you’re
SURE to enjoy them.
They are really small, good
cigars of shilling Havana
quality. They are mild and
delightful in flavor,
with a delicious
aroma.
They are made in
three sizes, but are
all the ONE
QUALITY. Excep-
tional value.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/6 2/3 2/-
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11/- 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Have you a
copy of my
catalog? If not
I should like
you to write
for one. It is
sure to interest
you.
i
*
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
y^VON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
■ mt
ON
UP
every day fill
SHELL
BENZINE
skat HUS
“ftnvHERE
ROUTE
P AT 09+
e 0.3 5
Find the Wonder Places
—the beauty spots that lie off the
beaten track Go touring on
<ondim
The Motorcycle of Supreme Comfort
Catalogue “ D " with Pleasure,
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. £&
109-113 Russell St., Melbourne.
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
Just the Style for You
with comfort such as you have never known.
This is the ideal combination you get in
RIGNEY SHOES. There’s a model to
suit every taste, and a shape for every foot.
We illustrate a very smart style in a high-
grade Box Calf Bal.
Price - - 30|-
In Choice Tan Willow
Calf, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
, IWI
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
I
lIHMI
A
1
lIHHHHIII
IHE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
III! Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
SI
J
/:'/■
'///
7//
M
i
'S
yy
'/sO.
yy
'V
y.
y
men#;
mi-
ms
M
m
*7L.
\?/s
&■
%
tiYy
US''
-IJB
m
m
iS
'M
#Ar
r
C
v
3®k \\
AAV • * '
■ ■ ■
Mr \...y' m'i
I
m-
■W
The “Stockman”
/ S
1616
:
ejrritrbhgf 'fully-
seasoned Calf, with EJas~
tic Sides' ’ and : Double
. Tags ; Dust and Water-
pVcof > lijgrht, comfortable,
t to puli...
“Stock^-
' "Australian ho rs e m a n .
-should be •without." Ob-
tainable in all sizes. ! ,
is dho obtqinabie fdi
fan WiilfijutCM at i&f 6. , Don't fail & -
order—We hav£ y “ Your" Size- 7 % . 'l
Lincoln, Stuart & Go. Pty.
• “ OutfittersbyMail f •
244-254 Flinders Street,. Melbourne.


' rtf r, i
°4i
r
X
My name is Simplicity
“ I am carried everywhere—”
“ even up to the clouds by the airmen. For 1
am Onoto—the pen that makes writing easy
everywhere
The Onoto fills itself instantly from any
ink supply and cleans itself in filling. Get
one to-day and save time, trouble and mess.
Onoto Pen
**>e self filling pen.
14/6 and upwards of all Stationers, Jewellers
ana ..tores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. DE LA RUE CO., Ltd.,
tyb, Bunhill Row, London, E.C.; or the Australasian
representatives, Norman Baker &r‘ Longhurst, jo
York Street, Sydney.
A*k for ONOTO INK— Best for all Pena.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that
will restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
he changed back to a natural color in a
few days’ time merely by the application
of a simple, old-fashioned and perfectly
harmless home-made lotion. Procure from
your chemist two ounces of tamtnalite con-
centrate and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply this to the hair a few times
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradu-
ally darkening to the desired shade. The
lotion is pleasant, not sticky "or greasy, and
does not injure the hair in any way. [1
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, {ust off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
Never be without the
GREAT BRITISH REMEDIES
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT and PILLS,
Testimonials for the undermentioned
Complaints are in our possession
BAD LECS POISONED HANDS INSECT & SNAKE
BARCOO ROT BUNIONS BITES, AND ALL
CARBUNCLES CORNS, PILES .SKIN TROUBLES
Prices: 1/3, 3/-, 5/- and 12/- per box.
Sold by all Drug Stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS. ANTHONY HORDERNS
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
CHRISTIE^
£P£CtAU3£
TWO
L //\,'£3
H
ill
bi
3
si#
u#^
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
K /10/MTER S T NEWCASTLE
’Y&rdleys
Shaving Stick
The Stickm the Glass Case
K UL
■/
l\2L\iW
\D
FOR REAL
SHAVING
COMFORT
Gives Ease and Speed In
Shaving. The ointment-like
lather is all working —it lies flat
on the face, soothing the skin*
lubricating the razor and soften-
ing the beard. Being Yardley’s
the perfume too is just right*
Made in England by
8 NEW BOND STREET, LONDON.
E-lder, Smith &. Co., Limited,
General Merchants, Importers <fc Exporters.
Special Department for Metals and Ores.
Head Office: Adelaide. Branches throughout South Australia, and
at Broken Hill and Wentworth, N.S.W.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: Queensland Building, 84-88 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE : 12 MARTIN PLACE.
PERTH A GENTS: ELDER, SHENTON & CO., LIMITED.
LONDON OFFICE: “Portland House,” 73 BASINGHALL BTREET, E.C.
AMJr/
MH
«
'\4
.V
3SB*
*'''
r ir i
Lias,
m
/
/v
a
010®
Tyres
The Best Value
in Square Treads
BARNET GLASS Square Tread
Tyres are of striking value. Test
their value—their thickness of
rubber and price with foreign, neutral
tyres. You save 40 to 75 per cent on
Barnet Glass Square Tread Tyres against
other imported tyres.
BARNET GLASS Tyres challenge
the world for sheer, honest Value
and Performance. 5 World’s
Records were recently put up on Barnet
Glass Tyres. Have these Australian-
made Tyres fitted to your car.
All Reputable Garage* throughout
Australasia stock them
“Miles cheaper
and Australian”
d
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Co-operative Film Exchange, Ltd., head
office in Melbourne and branches in other
States, which began with a deficit of £5489.
comprising preliminary expenses £439, and
flotation loading £5OOO :
To
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves Deficit.
£5439
1914.. £1504 Nil £1504 3935
1915.. 3128 9 p.c. = £930. 219 S 1737
1916.. 2773 10 „ „ 1165 1608 129
Oec., Reserves.
1916.. 632 632 503
Four of the big picture-show people having'
formed a combine to import films and show
them, some of the other people in the busi-
ness launched this little concern. The pro-
moter got 10,000 shares (£5000) and the
money put up was £0645 ; so this co. is over-
loaded, too. And under-capitalised—so
under-capitalised that it owed £17,28.1 on
December 31. As against this debt and the
co.’s own funds there is. in addition to a
few etceteras, stock-in-trade £9059, hire of
films paid in advance £6257; and “estimated
value of unexpired lease of hired films,”
£5184. These are all precarious assets. A
film is a gamble, just the same as a play;
and no self-respecting pawnbroker would
advance very much on a bushel of them. The
security for the principal being thus
wretchedly poor, nothing less than a 15 p.c.
dividend is a fair thing. This has never
been in sight yet, owing to the co.’s need of
trading capital: and for the past year the
directors say: “In spite of the continued
expansion of the business, owing to the in-
creased cost of supplies, coupled with the
heavy duty, it is becoming more difficult to
conduct the affairs of the co. at a reasonable
profit.” For the present the few big “pro-
ducing” cos. and their artists have the show-
men by the wool; and that is a blessed turn-
ing of the tables, for before the “pictures”
arrived the showmen had the artists by the
wool.
* * * *
At.buuy Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1909.. £731 10p.c.=£375 £356 £3037
•June, 1910.. 779 10 „ „ 375 404 3441
Dec.,' 1910.. 719 10 „,, 375 344 3785
June, 1911.. 663 10 „ „ 375 288 4073
Dec., 1911.. 512 10 ~ „ 375 137 4210
June, 1912.. 445 10 „,, 375 70 4280
Dec., 1912.. 645 10 „ „ 375 270 4550
June, 1913.. 618 10 ~ „* 375 243 4793
Dec., 1913.. 525 10 .. „ 375 160 4943
June, 1914.. 401 10 ~ ~ 375 26 4969
Dec., 1914.. 577 10 ~ .. 375 202 5171
June, 1915.. 527 10 .. 375 152 5323
Dec., 1915.. 736 10 .. .. 375 361 6684
■Tune, 1916.. 408 10 „ .. 375 33 5717
Dec., 1916.. 256 5 ~ „ 187 69 6786
This co. has learned lately to have a great
sympathy for Bildad’s friend Job, of the
land of tJz. For its trials have been these :
Increase of war taxation.
Arrival of electric competition and loss of the
street-lighting contract.
Increase of 3s. per ton in the price of .coal as a
result of Hughes’s usual brilliant settlement, of the
coal strike. • '
Daylight saving and decreased consumption of gas.
The sales of gas and residuals for the half-
year were £1747; for the corresponding half
of 1915, £2427; or, going back before the
war, £2221 for the latter half of 1913. And
as exes, haven’t been cut to correspond, there
was nothing for it but to reduce the div. and
make it p.c. for the year. Now the old
mortgage (£3000) has fallen in, and the co.
has had to get a bank overdraft to pay it
off; and that won’t help profits either. There
seems to be writing on the wall for more
than the Albury Co. to read.
* * * *
The Tasmania State mine at Argent Flat,
Zeehan, is holding out signals of distress.
The show was taken over by the Labor Gov-
ernment about three years ago. Up to the
present about £28,000 has been provided by
Parliament, in addition to £lO,OOO received
from ore sold and royalties. The shaft has
been sunk to 300 ft., and crosscuts put out to
intersect the different lodes. Flaherty’s
lode, Fulton’s lode and No. 8 lode have all
been passed, but none proved payable. No. 4
lode should be reached in a week or so. Un-
less that, or a rise being put up on Fulton’s
lode, proves payable, the mine will be closed
down, the last £2OOO voted by Parliament
having been made available on that condi-
tion. Not that the State would have got
anything directly out of the mine if it had
proved a New Broken Hill, because such a
bad bargain was made when it was taken
over that the leaseowners, by repaying tne
capital spent, could have resumed possession
at any time. «
* * * *
More from the chairman’s speech at the
Mount Elliott meeting in London:—
There are those who will remember the time when
any ore carrying less than 33 p.c. of copper
was unpayable at GToncurry. When roads were first
built the great achievement of shipping away at a
profit 25 p.c. ore was performed. When the rail-
way from Townsville cot through a considerable
quantity of ore assaying from 15 to 20 p.c. was
shipped away. When this company, in coniunction
with the Hampden, built the railway from Cloncurry
to Elliott there were those who said that the pro-
posal to treat 10 p.c. to 12 p.c. ore would leave no
profit at all. And 1 have no doubt there will be
some who will say the same thing about our policy of
treating 5 to 6 p.c. ore. However, we shall see.
To take things one step further and successfully treat
3 to 4 p.c. copper ore only requires cheap coal and
cheap transport, and if the Bowen coalfield can
supply the one, you need have no doubt whatever
that we shall get the other. The railway to the
Bowen coalfield from the coast is now' under con-
sideration. The estimates arc out, and I understand
that it is likely the work will be put irr hand very
soon.
*•*•*■-*
Since rain fell the Pioneer (Tas.) has
resumed sluicing with No. 2 electric plant.
The latest clean-up gave 66 tons of black
tin, and the average output with a full sup-
ply of water is over 10 tons per week. This
is the best done by any co. in Australia; but,
then, the Pioneer has 161,244 issued shares,
and the last four quarterly dividends of Is.
each required £32,248. To keep that up
regularly the net profit on a yearly- output
of 500 tons of black tin has to be £64 10s.
per ton. A high rate of profit is in fact
required to pay moderate dividends; and as
values are declining as the sluicing plants
work down the lead, there is a terrific
struggle to keep working costs below sd.
per yard. More than 40s. per share has
been distributed.


<OO
S
me
■*
sss
c
■
*?r
>-
U£
33
aga
;. '
ac
1
Hi
M
wm,
fyMmMffft
m
H«M4V
fpS
\ts
:l»i
r‘:
?*: >2O
■
u
" :-
:
$
8
, ».
• aS? ,; ■
to***
1
I
W
W:
■■■: i:
■ «
®s§
8
A <it A?’
—sag
m
reasiv.
~3**S F
■
/«r
£K
•'
/
5f
B*m
S.V
WSi
A
m
m.
/£
W,
i
a
2E
//
w
A
/
%
i
I
%
- w S
. ■■■•••
£KfU
&tn i 9
*sg^
/ V
)
Guests
is a simple matter with
<€& BEALE KALOPHONE
It is essentially an instrument that appeals to
cultivated tastes. The performers are artists with
world-wide reputations men and women of
genius who sing and play with consummate skill.
The Kalophone faithfully and realistically presents
their efforts —in touch, tone and temperament.
Informal concerts held daily from 1 0 till 4 ; 1 0 till
12.30 on Saturdays. Convenient terms arranged.
Head Office:
333 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle. Goulburn and Wagga
Victoria : Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs
Tasmania: Williams Bros, Hobart. Maples, Launceston.
South Australia : John Evans. Ltd.. Adelaide.
|^ecile
& C 9 LTV
333 GeordeSt.
__ Sydney
Factory:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.. ANNANDALE
Queensland : 90-92 Queen Street Brisbane
Kent Street. Maryborough Flinders Street. Townsville.
Rockhampton Sydney Street. Mackay
Cairns


■ <
5
Ti
fill!
nj
*
**
i'JB
Nervousness
When a sudden
fright makes you
jump or drop
things it is a sign
that the nerves
are unstrung and
probably the
whole system
run down. This
condition may be'induced by too much work,
insuflicient sleep, mental worries, an injury, or
the abuse of alcohol. As a preliminary, there
may be pains in the head, irritability, sleepless-
ness, general indisposition, headache, vomiting
and constipation.
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
at once braces and steadies the nerves, irritation
departs, sleep and restful nights follow, and in
a very short time the whole system is restored
to a normal condition. Fishers Phospherine is
also taken for Backache, Rheumatism, &c. It
is good for indigestion. All chemists and stores
1 - per Bottle
times the quantity. 2,6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. ,kp.
gsd
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Men Ear Phono man y times as efficient
media i-di ruune and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
BELLEVUE
The only Hot I
overlooking
HOTEL, the Botanical Gardens.
This is Brisbane’s leading Hotel now ; in fact', it is
publicly acknowledged to be the most refined and
comfortable Hotel in Australia. It is under the
personal supervision of the owner, A. FINNI HAN.
The Bellevue Hotel, opposite
the Queensland Club and
Parliament House.
BRISBANE
gsd
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You’ll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
Lighting
for Motors
Ordinary lead-acid batteries are inferior
because of the fundamental faults of their
construction. They can never be reliable.
Edison Storage
Batteries are best
because they are built to. give long, depend-
able service without expert attention. They
contain neither lead nor acid, consequently
there is no buckling or growing of plates;
may be left standing idle, either charged or
discharged, for months at a time without
injury and with no attention ; it gives off no
obnoxious fumes, and will not; corrode nearby
metal.
Call for demonstration or write for full parti-
culars, post free.
See exhibit in Hall of Industries at Sydney
Easter Show.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
3(14-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
1
\
The BULLETIN
STOCK SADDLE
AND
The BULLETIN
PARK SADDLE
The two most popular of our many
comfortable saddles. They both have
Pigskin Seat, the “GS” short panel with
leather points, long flaps and long girth
straps. They are BOTH fitted with
Stirrups, Girth, Leathers and Surcingle.
£6/16/6 each, or £6/10/- without
Surcingle.
Freight Free for Cash to Any Port or Rail-
way Station in N.S.W. For 3s. 6d. extra
for casing, we will send Freight Free to any
direct port in Queensland,' Victoria, South
Australia, N.Z. or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE 11/6, SADDLECLOTH 6/6,
BREASTPLATE 8/-
If Ordered with Saddle. Otherwise Is. each
Extra for Postage.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY
AND HARNESS.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS
393 Ceorge Street,
32 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
r
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake.
But such dreams of boots, up-to-date,
dainty, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and play in short-fronted, high-heeled, suede-
topped boots like the Bostock style here illus-
trated.
It is a smart little boot, there is no doubt
about that, and every hi£ as comfortable as it is
smart. The beautifully fitting last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who have
never imagined they could wear a short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is, how jolly it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range of
styles to select from, all as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model, and all safe to wear well and
feel as peculiarly one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6476
51 v*
(3 -
: m
«*
•
828
None genuine unless
stamped “Bostock.”
See that the name “Bostock”
is stamped on the soles.
gsd
g
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
MORE THAN A MERE SHOE POLISH.
That’s so. ROSTOCK’S Shoe Dressings are more than a mere polish—they’re
leather preservers as well.
Remember, a polish that only 'shines the leather makes it crack, and thus ruins
your shoes.
ROSTOCK’S POLISHES can be had in Cream and Paste, 6d. and 1/-
Sold everywhere. Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown and White.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
sdg
UMC
<*
V
AUTOLOADING
• SHOTGUNS*
FOR field shooting under any
conditions of wind or weather,
the Remington Autoloading Shot-
gun is a thoroughbred.
It has grace and beauty in its
__ lines and is mechanically correct. It
places at your command five shots without re-loading, which
may he fired with great rapidity or deliberately, as you may wish.
Constructed under the Browning Patents in seven grades and with
Solid Breech—Hammerless—Easily Detachable Barrel.
At Your Dealer's
THE REMINGTON ARMS UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
New York London
D. D. Bryant, Manager for Australia, G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
sdg
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xame and address must appear on the MSS. A'o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
John W. B.: Off The B.’s beat
Balclutha: Don’t think so. Presuming you want
sound sleep as well as something to buy bread and
cheese with, better put it in the War Loan. .. .
F.W.R. (France) : No need to thank us; take our
thanks instead. .. . Ring-G.: Make a good story if it
were condensed to about one-third. We only want the
meat... .Splendide: Thanks ; but we can't take the
responsibility of publishing it.... Sad Protectionist:
You were “in hopes that Prime Minister *Hughes
would have adopted a scientific tariff.” Hope on,
optimist, hope on ! That’s what optimises arc for.
. ...H.S.C.: Do we think that the time is ripe?
Yes, certainly, and you can pack the mandarins on
May 5.... U. U. Bbigh: (1) No space to answer
pars; don't remember the one you mention. (2)
Thanks. (3) Leave some space between the lines.
....It. Gough (London): Not our style; sorry. It’s
very difficult to say anything new on that subject.
Returning manuscript.... 22nd: “Australian leader-
ship” wouldn’t have a hope with the Censor... .
E.M.C.: Thanks.... T.A.8.: And besides being “de-
luded with the false idea that they are poetry,” you
have the equally false idea that we like our contri-
butions tightly r011ed.... Dvr. K.: Verse nearly as
sloppy as your dugout must be. L .Will C. K.: Not
here Judith W.: Both too young.... Max E. R.:
Enthusiastically, no !. . . .T.G.0.: Teach her to cook;
it is more important. . . .Stephen: Almost bad enough
to quote,.. .Whitelaw : Dislike most parodies; abhor
yours. .. .Mclntyre: Four lines :- 1
If ever a bloke deserves a poke
Right on the vital spark,
It’s the high-browed bloke who thinks you’re a joke,
The “Answers to Correspondents” nark.
.. . .Eatjfjf Dob: Quite hopeless. .. . Something-or-
otlier St; George: No thrill in it. .. .M.C.: Trivial.
... .Oorio : Neat but unnecessary I.McC. : Ditto.
.. . .Syd Ff'L.: Again ditto. .. .Le Noy : Our diagnosis
of your complaint is that you have only obvious
things to say, and insist on saying them obviously.
. ...C.Y.8.: Your hectic gush would make Bill jim
uncomfortable. Don’t knit him a sonnet; knit him a
sock....M. (Casino): Too much cranking up before
you get a move on.... Mary L. IT.: No g00d....
C.L;: P)*sant, but this sort of verse needs nowa-
days a more skilled hand.... Jack Plane: Thanks; a
well-meaning friend inflicted the chestnut on an
innocent artist, and the drawing was too good to let
g 0... .Barmedman: Sorry cannot suggest anything;
off our track....An Old Supporter: “Bobs” was born
at Cawnpore, India... .Corrimal: A billion is a
thousand million in the U.$.A. and France, but a
million million in England and Germany.... Curtius:
What’s your address?. .. .11. A.: Thanks; but the in-
formation cannot be published.... R.W.T.: You can
“Mister” or “Esquire” the gent, just as you please.
. ...F.G.L.: To be quite fr-aqk, Tiib Bulletin’s
worst infliction is the contributor who sends good
stuff enveloped in a mass of words which lie thinks
is BULLETiN-ish. The Bulletin wants, first of all,
ideas. Next it wants the ideas put into the fewest
words possible, and every statement made in the
most direct manner of which the language is capable.
... .R. 11.0.: But- that is the 4,592,118 th time of
\ saying it... .K. 8.: No use.. . .Wee Robbie: To make
that sort of thing interesting you must be a crafts-
man or a genius, and we. fancy you’re just a modest,
likeable bloke. .. .L.G.; Where’s the point?....
0.L.5.: Lost interest when we came to:
. He’s one of those British heroes
Who are always in the van!
. ...A.E.: Rather weary of languid lilac trees and
pansied paths. Why not become the sonneteer of
the golden butter-bean, the aspiring artichoke and
the virile vermilion carrot ?.... G.M.: Above all
things, if with infinite toil you have produced some-
thing smart, see that there are no marks of the
machine left about the effort.... Bluebush: Censored.
....Walter T.: Not in our line. .. . W.S.: Du 11....
Alfonso: Duller.... Rex: Dullest.... Cuckoo: Not in
this nest... .M.8.P.: Words, words.... 8.C.: Not up
to your standard. .. .J. Fanattie: Starts briskly but
gets corns on the feet. Have another shot at it....
Dodo: Not our style.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Mac: You’re in still water.... Graham S.: A bad
drawing and an old gag. . . .S.T. : An ABC idea.
How young are you ?. . . .G.S.: You're an optimist if
you thought that had a chance.... Fresco: Yes, this
market is always open for bright, fresh, young jokes
that‘will carry an illustration.... F.M.W. : Thanks.
Plainly a case of theft. Some of these days we
shall have to ask somebody to go to gaol for things
like that.
There was another revolution in a dusty
little office in Little Collins-street, when “His
Imperial Royal Majesty’s Consul-General”
for Australia, A. N. d’Abaza, Esq., turned
democrat, dashed the royal seal into the
safe, and signed himself plain “Consul-
General.” The daring fellow actually told a
Melbourne newspaper man that the revolu-
tion was “the best thing that had ever hap-
pened.” Then he resumed his job with his
coat turned inside out.
“0.K.”: Oue of Melbourne’s most useful
little charitable institutions that deserves an
annual dole from the Government, and
doesn’t get it, is the. Ragged Boys’ Home.
The first of the homes, opened in 1895 -by
Lady Brassey, grew out of the old Latrobe-
street Mission, which had already been deal-
ing with city waifs and strays for 30 years’.
The institution struggles along on a fluctuat-
ing income of considerably less than £2OOO a
year, derived mainly from small individual
subscriptions, gathered in by door-to-
door collectors whose, commissions amount
to more than a fourth of the total annual
outlay. The management otherwise is a pat-
tern in economy. Obviously the work it does
deserves Government and municipal support.
It is “rescue” work. Waifs are trained and
educated at the Homes in Melbourne and
Frankston, or are placed in good homes in
the country. 111-circumstanced urchins are
gathered in and moulded into men. More
than 50 of the, old boys are known to have
enlisted for the, war as soldiers, which sug-
gests that in the future the Homes should
be a steady source of supply for the Aus-
tralian navy. Charities of this sort show a
very clear profit to a country. Even from a
purely business point of view, they are worth
while.


Up-to-date Panamas.
Genuine Natives—up to the minute in
style—grand holiday hats,
21/-
post
free.
n
*
Smart
Soft
Felts.
latest shapes and popular colorings. A
wide variety of styles to choose from, at
prices to suit every purse.
6/6, 9/11, 14/6.
Postage
Bd.extra.
Stetson Velours.
Newest colorings,
35/-
post
free.
sdg
Hard
Hats.
Fashionable Derby shapes —smart and
serviceable,
6/11.
Post a re
Bd. extra.
sdg
Straw Boaters.
Cool, comfy hats—nice pearly bleach —
latest styles and well finished, .
4/6.
Postage
8(1. extra.
Easter Waats at MURDOCH’S
Whatever your programme for the coming Easter season you will need smart clothing to make your
appearance attractive. Murdoch’s offer goods of merit, supreme in value and economically price .
For the Show, the Races or for Holiday Wear in town or country, here are the goods you need.
Make your selection early, as Easter is now within coo-ee.
If you cannot call, write Desk R.
Murdoch’s
Sports Suits
3916.
These up-to-date, two-piece, Ready-to-Wear Suits are ideal for .
smart, stylish and comfortable. They are cut from good
popular sports style, with yoke shoulders, half-belt, and vent at ba .
have a size to fit every man. Call in and try on youi Size •’
height, chest, waist, sleeve and inside-leg measurements to Desk K.
~WQ. r
/"W
a
©
©
eU
Ready-to-Wear
Sac Suits,
45|-
These up-to-date Suits are
Murdoch-made from New Sea-
son’s Tweeds —smartly cut and
finished with that touch of style
which proclaims them Murdoch’s
distinctive standard.
Let us fit you with one of these
smart Suits. If you can’t call
send height, chest, w r aist, sleeve
and inside-leg measurements to
Desk R.
£ A i
K
MURDOCH’S for
TRAVELLING Requisites
Our selection includes just what you need, reliable,
dependable goods that will add to your comfort when
travelling.
MURDOCH’S BONSOR RUG, 25/- post free.
FIBRE SUIT CASES, 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
17/6 19/6 21/- 22/6
GLADSTONE BAGS, 22/6 24/6 26/6 28/6
WEEK-END KIT BAGS, Solid Hide —
12in. 14in. lGin. ISin. 20in.
13/11 16/3 18/6 21/- 23/6
Postage on Bags, 1/6 extra.
COUNTRY VISITORS
in town for Easter are cordially invited to inspect the
Mammoth Stores before returning to their homes.
Murdoch’s
Famous
Wallaby
Boots,
18/6
post
free.
Made for service and comfort,
uppers are soft pliable wallaby—■
soles of solid leather—every pair
guaranteed. Get a pair for holiday
wear.
IN DERBY AND BALMORAL
STYLES and a variety of toe
shapes.
Men’s sizes, 5 to 10, 18/0
post
free.
Youths’ sizes, 1 to 4, 15/6
post
free.
i»
SPLENDID VALUE
IN GOLF SHIRTS.
SMART GOLF
SHIRTS —
Neat, stniped materials,
shapely in cut and ex-
cellent in finish,
3/11.
En
MURDOCH’S in Park St. Ltd., SYDNEY,
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.* 9


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, etc-.,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Aim a Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 31.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, April 4.
Leaves Sydney, April 7.
BURWAH (Cargo Only).
Leaves Melbourne, April 10.
Leaves Sydney, April 14.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. arid W.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 31
* Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Oiiices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Com panics, &c.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
CAPITAL Subscribed and Paid Uo £1,198,679
RESERVE FUND £95,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & K ing Streets. Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Thread needle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Maim; Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. • Lysagiit, Esq.; Georoe F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, lit. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act' 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Di rectors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; TV. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking |)o.
, of Sydney, [imited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..'£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,900,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 ' 0 0
£5,900,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Coiien, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. IT. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman:
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
Honorary Director: Sir Thomas A. Dibbs.
General Manager: 11. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New .South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)nm Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transact? all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST. FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
Auckland suva (Fiji) and Honolulu (Hawaii).
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA I'ALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL RE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN. OK VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to honolulu,“:ks
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest. Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and K. 51.5. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
s-m.
: iar
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PIiILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NFW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
#7*
fm
Directors:
£3,705.320
£2,725.000
£3.705,320
£10,135.640
The Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, Iv.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.C., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas BucUland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadncedle St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
,T rt’qqft.t. FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
sd
J£ank ot ßuotralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Interest at
Minimum
At all Branches, and over
3%
Deposit
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
•\MES KELL. Depn'r Governor. June, 1916 DENISON' MILLER. Governor
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL. £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings,- Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
gsd
A £l4 Machine
With 5
Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 Years’ Written Guarantee.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
Errol street, North Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
•A-VVVM l' 1 !' 1 1*1 I *
mm
nggEEM
The
safest, surest and
purest polish you
can buy. Keeps
brass or silver musi-
cal instruments 1 ike
new. Does the work
gsd
Quickly
and easily. Sola
in two size cans by
all Grocery, Hard-
wa r e and Drug
Stores.
Look for Photo on Can
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
arfter suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold hy A. MURPHY, AYoj-
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORUD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Thursday
April 5 and Friday
.May 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
MORI ALT A, March 31.
RUPARA, April 7.
PARINGA, April 14.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
oti all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Olliee.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,” “Wimmera,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Victoria.”
“Riverina,” “Westralia,”
All of Modern Construction.
Kitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
a nd
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAM OA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
vppiy:— OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
14 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins- and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN k CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
i WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA. .
Combination Tickets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steam;r to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
-teamer. CO 8-. fl.d. : second-class rail and steerage
rm steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING, OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S.
T.S.S.
T.S.S.
S.S. “
“ INDARRA ”
“LEVUKA”
“ WYREEMA”
WYANDRA”
... 10,0C0 tons
... 6500 tons
... 6500 tons
... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade ;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian. 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hol-
born. London. W.C.. where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


On your Easter Holidays
—maKe KODAK pictures
:
JL
\
P
1
% 42
Your holidays are worth keeping in mind; they
are the best times of your life.
The only way to make the happiness of this
Easter last throughout your lifetime is to take
Kodak pictures of all that delights you.
Looking at the snapshots years hence you can
recall all the little incidents connected with your
good times.
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak is the most popular camera in the
world. It is easy to use being very simple —and meets the requirements
of experts. Takes the ever-popular postcard pictures x inches.
Price £5/10/=
There are other Autographic Kodaks from 30/= to £l5/2/=
Ask for YOUR copy of an interesting, finely-illustrated booklet: “Picture
Making with a Kodak.”
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart, Ruthven St., Toowoomba,
Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; 346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner
Lamhton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.; 3 Borne St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, „ ■
(Incorporating Baker 8 Rouse Prop. Ltd.)
Are You PROUD of
Your Figure?
YOUR gowns may be smart and expensive, but do they fit properly? You may
have a beautiful complexion, pretty eyes', exquisite hair, but is your figure
equally as charming?
Are you sure you are wearing the correct corset for your figure? Many a graceful
figure has been marred by an incorrect corset.
You can’t go wrong when you wear a Gossard. The simplified system of having
nine ideal figures as a guide, with dozens of Gossard models for each type, has
made the selection of Gossards the only sure way of buying the correct corset for
your individual figure requirements.
■■ f r
. I
M-
,
Ideal Arched-Back and
Short-Waisted Figures
Improper corseting with old-style
corsets is the chief cause of the arched-
back figure. Models to correct the
arched-back type have specially-designed
back—raise and reduce the abdomen,
and reduce the lower back perceptibly.
Short-waisted figures will find special
models giving long waist lines, making
the figure seem taller.
An expert corsetiere who understands
your figure requirements will deem it
a pleasure to fit you. Be fitted to-day.
Gossard Corsets are Supplied to Women of Australia
and New Zealand by
Allan & Stark, Ltd.,
Brisbane, Australia.
J. Ballantvne & Co.,
Cashel "Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Stafford Street, Timaru, N.Z.
Buckley & Xunn. Ltd.,
298-312 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Australia.
Harry Davies Co.,
Ballarat, Australia.
Drapery & General Importing Co. of
Xew Zealand, Ltd.,
Lyttelton, N.Z.
Wellington, N.Z.
Farmer & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Australia
James Marshall &<Co.,
Adelaide, Australia.
Milne & Choyce, Ltd.,
Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
- \ .. ■'
✓h ; *■v'j
\
,
sSgil
' W
Ideal
A relied-Back
Figure.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd.,
King and George Streets, Sydney, Australia
Ideal
Short- Wats ted
Figure.
g


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If j’our dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester.
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
Grant Six
Only
THE
LATEST
MODEL.
*
CASH,
OR ON
CREDIT.
Telephone: City 8802
SOLE AGENTS
Marcus ClarK &, Co. Ltd
GARAGE and
SHOWROOMS,
162 Castlereagh St., Sydney
IN BANANA LAND
During the recent deluge at Lyndon, near
Ilfracombe (C.Q. Railway), a record for an
inland downpour was established. The gauge
registered 17 inches in four hours. Then
the pressure in the watering-can eased, and
it 'only leaked four inches in the next 20
hours.
An ardent scientific plant-specialist, Cyril
T. White, has just been appointed to succeed
his uncle, J. F. Bailey, as Queensland Gov-
ernment botanist. Though only 26 White
has a very rare knowledge of Australian
vegetables. He got a good grounding under
his venerated grand-dad, F. Manson Bailey,
and the enthusiasm with which he has wooed
Flora in all parts of the State for the past
half-dozen years entitles him to the billet.
The Ryan Government in Bananaland is
having its fill of by-elections. Immediately
it came into office, Hamilton resigned his
seat to take over the leadership of the Gov-
ernment in the House of Fossils. Pollock
was elected to the vacancy, thus retaining
the seat for Labor. Then on the death of
Dave Bowman, Wilson secured the Vall(*y
seat for the Labor Party. At present Mary-
borough is agitated over a by-election,
caused by the elevation of Alf Jones to the
Leg. Council, in consequence of the appoint-
ment of Bill Hamilton to the Presidency of
that Chamber. Now John Adamson has lured
himself with hopes of a Seat in the Senate
into throwing up his Rockhampton seat,
and there will have to be a by-election for
that division.
John Adamson, who got out of the Queens-
land Labor party over Conscription, has
again forfeited substance for shadow. He
recently resigned his seat in the Assembly
under the impression that he was a certainty
as one of the “National” candidates for the
Senate. But when all the wire-pulling was
over it was found that T. W. Crawford
(president of the Sugar Producers’ Associa-
tion), Mat Reid and H. Spencer Foil (Re-
turned Soldiers and Patriots’ League) had
secured the selection. Foil, by the way, was
Adamson’s private secretary when he was
Minister for Railways.
“Lord Toothpick”: At Enoggera Camp
recently Canon Garland invited 40 Billjims
to tea at the Anzac Club, and 107 of them
rolled up. The popular parson was delighted.
After the spread he addressed the men and
told them that he expected them to stay for
the evening service. “Of course,” he added “the
R.C.’s may go away if they please.” Then
he took a walk. On his return he was
astonished to discover only five left. All the
rest bad suddenly ’verted to Rome.
“M. Jay”: A link in the pioneering
romance of early Queensland history was
severed with the death of William Guilfoyle
in Brisbane the other day. Born in Tipper-
ary 82 years ago, he migrated to Bananaland
in the late ’so’s, and not finding gold in the
streets commenced life with Matilda and
a cheerful disposition. lie was the driver
of the old coach between Ipswich and Bris-
bane when the former town was the metropo-
lis of the State nearly 50 years ago. He
was the ringer in the Jondaryan sheds in the
early ’6o’s, and when he got tired of the
rough-and-tumble of the Bush he settled down
in Brisbane and helped in the erection of the
old Victoria Bridge as a diver. In the first
athletic games held in Queensland over half
a century ago at the Botanical Gardens he
scooped the whole programme—high jump,
long- and short-distance sprints, throwing the
hammer —the lot without as much as half
an hour’s training. •
The Full Bench of the Arbitration
Court delivered an important judgment
in Brisbane last week, when it de-
clared that, under the 1916 Industrial
NOT APT.
BILL: “Say! What's up; Ginger? You look trashed out!"
Arbitration Act, male and female clerks
should receive the same wage if they do the
same WO rk or produce the same profit for
their employer. So, as far as Bananaland is
concerned, the possibility of cheap female
] akor displacing Billjim when he gets into a
high collar again has received an effective
knock . out But it is time the people
i ns j s ted on the unification of these industrial
rules> How unfair it is , for instance, that,
under an award of the Victorian Court, the
Victorian manufacturer should be able to
em p] oy female clerical labor at about half
the figure fixed for his Northern competitor
by the Queensland Court!
A . Cairns syndica te, with the scientific
n ,„ ’ ’
ex-parson Campbell at the helm, has got
busy producing paper-pulp from blady
grass, Chinese burr and sida retusa. The
present trouble is to dry the pulp. The
syndicate pays a royalty of Is..per ton to
the State Government, which gave the right
to harvest vegetable products from a strip
of country along the coast south of Cairns.
Memories' of a case that crawled through
Queensland courts on to the Privy Council
have been revived by the passing of Edwin
Charles Bacon, a stock-dealer in a big way.
Bacon, who was Australian-born, once
owned the Diamond Downs station. He was
badly hit by the drought of 1902, and also
by the local judgment in the Bacon v. Pur-
cell argument concerning the delivery of
stock under contract. However, Bacon won
when the dispute went to the Privy Coun-
cil. Of recent times he had lived a life of
meditation in Warwick.
“C.J.M.”: The desperate hunt for a food-
ruiner up North :—•
Cook and Gardener wanted for Gunnawarra
Station. £2 per week wages. White, Black or
Yellow.
Hunger and pains in the pinny drive some
people to revolution, others to colored labor.
“McNorth,” Queensland’s topmost settler:
Miss Beatrice Grimshaw (B. 15/3/T7) writes of
the luck of the man-on-the-land in Papua in being
able to grow, shoot or catch his tucker in these
days of scarce and high-priced food. When supplies_
are overdue and the pantry shows a deficit, the man
in Far Northern Australia needn’t despair either.
At my ranch on Cape York the scrubs abound with
turkeys, pigeons, ducks and other edible fowl, scrub
wallabies and wild pig. Fish of all kinds swarm in
the sea, and at low water fine oysters and crabs can
be bagged. With the aid of a dinghy, a rope, a spear
and a nigger you cun have real turtle soup and meat
every day, and dugong (which tastes like fillet steak
when fresh and like bacon when dried) as often as
you wish. For vegetable food there are wild fruits,
such as red and white “apples,” wangi and grapes,
all edible. If not too tired you can make a garden
by the simple process of sticking plants in a bit of
cleared ground and returning after three or four
months to collect the harvest. Sweet potatoes,
manioc, bananas, maize and a multitude of tropical
things bear quickly and magnificently. The sunny
weather thp.t follows the torrential rains of the
nor’-west season has the forcing effect of a hotbed.
On a piece of land I cleared some time ago-there are
hundreds of bearing paw-paw trees. I didn’t plant
one of them. The birds brought the seeds from
somewhere, and did it for me. After dinner, if you
want to get on the jag, there is abundant fire-
water to be extracted by a simple process from the
cocoanut trees. It’s the real stingo, too. And you
can grow your own tobacco for a smoke between
drinks. The trouble is, of course, that no white
man can live in this land of plenty with the best
climate in the world—that is, no white man except
me, and even I am expecting to be worn down within
the next 100 years or so.
In Queen’s Gardens.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gardens glowed beneath the sun,
And on the small white flowers
A butterfly had perched to sip
Its share of scented hours.
’Twas shaped of velvet, sable-hued,
And on each outspread wing
The round white discs were outlined with
A blue and royal ring.
And when it settled on a bud
Swift dying out of sight,
The blue fled, leaving it severe
In mourning black and white.
It was a radiant thing, when back
(The sable pricking through)
Came, like a binding troth with Joy,
Again that ring of blue.
A red hibiscus near the path
Lured it like a caress;
The variegated canna showed
In Oriental dress.
With delicate delights of mauve
The bloss’ming hedge was gay,
But underneath its shielding gloom
The turf seemed worn away.
And why those green and pointed blades
Were sere and crushed, 1 knew.
’Twas where a homeless woman lay
A long night through.
Queensland.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 24, 1917.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
On Thursday the Mayoress presided at a
meeting called to establish a Bush Nursing
Association. The scheme has been “in the
air” since August, 1914, but money has been
too scarce. Now the residents of Banana,
which is away up between Rockhampton and
Townsville, have been promised by the Home
Secretary a trained nurse for the district,
and with her the Association will make a
start.
Pretty Peggy Ferrier was married in Syd-
ney last week to Ross Philp, son of J.A., the
old newspaper-man. Young Philp was asso-
ciate to Justice Shand, but preferred khaki
to the black gown, and is now receiving con-
gratulations at the artillery camp at Liver-
pool.
Another wedding. Marian Hamilton
Baker and Corporal Claud Saunders com-
mitted it last Saturday, and they are now
showing one another Port Jackson. The
bride’s step-mother rationed about 50 guests
the day before the partnership was signed.
Lorna Dickson, daughter of the .Limes
Dicksons of Wynnum, is flashing the dia-
mond badge of impending servitude. It was
riveted upon her by Leonard Harwood, a
Toowoomba boy.
The girls of New Farm are strenuous and
business-like patriotic workers. Dne of their
efforts raised over 1400. Then they came to
the front with a cookery-book, and the
profits enabled them to buy two rowing-boats
for the use of convalescents at Kangaroo
Point military hospital.
Lena Hammond, our top-side local con-
tralto, was the star performer at the Irish
concert in Toowoomba on St. Pathrick’s
night. One of her pupils, Clarice Cox, sang
from the same rostrum. Miss Ive Norman,
another Hammond aspirant, made the “hit"
at St. Pat’s concert in Brisbane. Both the
young voices are contralto.
J. R. Crane, a popular Rockhampton man,
has dropped south to Hobart, where he will
manage the Union Bank The farewells were
frequent and free from bias.
Killed on February 25, Fred Barbour, son
of G. P. Barbour, headmaster of Toowoomba
Grammar School and formerly of Sydney
Grammar. He left Queensland in December.
1915, and was only 21 at the finish. Rank,
quarter-master-sergeant; a line scholar and
athlete.
H. E. Budden, commissioner for Aus-
tralian Comforts Funds, is in Brisbane. On
Monday the local committee of the Fund
expects some good advice from him at Par-
bury House in return for tea and thanks.
The -Wattle Day League is losing two of
its most energetic workers. The president.
.T. F. Bailey, this morning left for Adelaide
to take charge of the Botanical Gardens;
and the Rutledge lady, who has been the
vice-president, leaves for Melbourne next
month. The League farewelled the abscond-
ers at afternoon-tea on Wednesday.
The “house full” sign is up at the
Women’s College. One student has taken
the track for Sydney because she can’t get
even a shake-down. No one knows when the
permanent buildings are to be erected, and
about £4OO would be needed to make the
present habitation suitable for current needs.
I asked our baker this morning what he
thought should be done (he’s a member of
the P.W.W. or something), and he said:
“Take a thick-’un’s worth uv tickets in the
Eight-Hour Art Union.” I’m still dazed.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Nick” : Billjim’s wife can be as game as
Bill. Near Mount Morgan, a middle-aged
married man heard the call and went with
the Miners’ Corps to Gallipoli. He re-
turned broken in health, and with his wife
took up land. Ljiter Bill’s ailment con-
quered him, leaving his widow to struggle
with the farm. The block was infested with
pear; but Billjemima tackled the job of get-
ting rid of it. The next that was heard
of her was when she wrote to the Shire
Council Complaining that, though she had
got the pest off her own place, every time it
rained pear-leaves were washed down from
higher ground. An appreciative council
promptly remedied that trouble.


THe Little
The Price of This Car
Startled the World
Never in the history of the motor=car business has there appeared a car equal in
value to the new series Overland.
' « V • • ■
Its cost—both first cost and operating cost—was a revelation to the public.
It overshadows every other car in its price class for power and economy.
You can get from 25 to 30 miles on a gallon of petrol!
Moreover you get the comforts and advantages that heretofore were confined to
the higher=priced car.
For this newest Overland is completely equipped—there is not a thing to buy extra.
You get the finest Auto=Lite electric starting and lighting system, Tillotson car=
buretter, high=tension magneto, magnetic speedometer, one=man hood, demountable
rims, and practically every accessory found on the highest= priced cars.
No wonder this Overland startled the world.
We want you to see this new car—to ride in it. A demonstration will show you
how simple and easy to drive and how much enjoyment you can have at a very
small expense.
All Overland Cars have High-Tension Magneto Ignition.
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO,, Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
Willys-Overland (U S. A.) Australasia Ltd., 352 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
sdg
Carter’s
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
How I Darkened My
Grey Hair.
Lady Gives Simple Home Recipe That
She Used to Darken Her Grey Hair.
For years I tried to restore my grey hair
to its natural color with the prepared d.yes
and stains, but none of them gave satisfac-
tion and they were all expensive. I finally
came across a simple recipe which I mixed
at home that gives wonderful results. I
gave the recipe,' which is as follows, to a
number of my friends, and they are all
delighted with it. To 7oz. of water add a
small box of Orlex Compound and loz. of
bay rum. These ingredients can be bought
at any chemist’s at very little cost. Use
every other day until the hair becomes the
required shade. It will not only darken
the grey hair but removes dandruff and acts
as a tonic to the hair. It is not sticky or
tbc —Aqvt f 5
sdg
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
26(6
BUYS
THIS
£2/10/-
CHAIR.
%
■
New Tub Shape, Well Made, Good
Springs, and Nicely Upholstered in
Pretty and Serviceable Cretonnes. Only
26/6 —Worth Double. High Backs,
39/6. Add 3/- for carriage to station
and packing.
Chesterfields, etc., in ltexine Leather,
Fabricord, Shadow Tissue Tapestries, etc., at
proportionate prices. Made to order. Sub-
mit your own design for Factory Price
quotation; or, better still, come and see our
designs.
Do not confuse these cheap prices with
cheap work —we turn them out in quantity.
Quality first is our Motto. New designs,
from Grand Rapids, Michigan and New York
Galleries Furniture Companies just received.
BUY KNOCK-DOWN FURNITURE
sent from factory direct to you saves dealers’
profits, expenses and carriage charges.
■/ 6J/'£3
BUYS THIS SUITE, without Couch
with Couch, £5/19/"
sdg
Cost of packing is
6/-, delivered free
to the station. If
you .don’t think this
suite i s worth
double the amount
vve ask, for it, we
will cheerfully re-
fund vour money. Could we do more?
This illustration does not do justice to this
suite. They are all lift-out seats and well
upholstered.
NOW LOOK AT THESE PRICES,
and all sold on the money-back plan. We
can easily quote you prices, packed and deliv-
ered to station ; add the freight, and you will
find there is no comparison in our prices
with others that quote prices delivered and
other inducements.
SEND US YOUR ILLUSTRATIONS
to figure on before you buy another thing,
for this will give us your order without
fail, and wdll save you a lot of money.
£B/15/- BUYS a £l5 Bedroom Suite,
three pieces—Wardrobe, Dressing
Table and Washstand.
38/6 BUYS a 3ft. 6in. Iron Bedstead,
worth £3.
39/- BUY’S a 3ft. 6in. Oak Bedstead,
worth £3/10/-
19/- BUYS a 3ft. Gin. Mattress, worth
30/-. This is kapok.
13/6 BTJYS a 3ft. Gin. Flock or Fibre
Mattress, worth 25/-
£6/14/- BUYS a £9 Oak Sideboard.
Best Offer Takes Them.
sd
4 Gasoline En-
gines, 24h.p. to
6h.p. One is
portable air cooled,
the rest are water
cooled ; all Indent
Samples. Let us.
Indent _ the line
you need at wholesale prices.
Manufacturers Sales Service,
2nd Floor, 183 PITT ST., near King St.,.SYDNEY
Semitf/
Hints
7
I **
'4
V "
m
THE SECRET OF A
GOOD COMPLEXION.
By MME. ST. CLAIRE,
Any woman nowadays may quickly reju-
venate her complexion at home by a safe and
painless process of gentle absorption. The
days of expensive and dangerous “operations”
are past, and each woman can be her own
beauty doctor. It has been discovered that
ordinary mercolised wax, applied like cold
cream, at night, will cause the thin veil of
lifeless, sallow or blotchy cuticle to gradually
and gently flake off in invisible, flour-like
particles, revealing the fresh, vigorous and
beautiful young skin underneath. Mercolised
wax absorbs only the unhealthy and un-
sightly outer fi’m, and does not affect the
healthy tissue at all.
The process defies detection, and unveils
a lasting and beautiful complexion, which is,
of course, a perfectly natural one. For this
purpose thousands of women are now using
mercolised wax, which may be obtained at
any chemist’s. Naturally 'the process also
removes all such surface blemishes as
freckles, blotches, pimples, tan, liver spots,
etc. It makes the face look years younger
and prettier, and renders the use of face
creams unnecessary.
* * * *
Another valuable piece of information,
which many women will appreciate, concerns
the success of the new treatment for super-
fluous hair. A remedy, for permanently erad-
icating this ugly form of facial disfigurement
now seems to have been found. It is simpli-
city itself. About one ounce of ordinary pure
powdered pheminol, which can be obtained
at any chemist’s, is all that is needed to put
one in the way of completely ridding oneself
of superfluous hair. When applied to the
obnoxious growth this causes it to immedi-
ately disappear, and the continuance of the
recommended treatment is said to finally
destroy the hair roots, so that there will be
no renewal of the growth. [5
I-:--:
.it.--I-
-•*»
r.i’K
fcgfSs
&
• 7^“*^
wMlfe
/
i
<?
mwtiNrtM
iSU
:;•:». •• *;.*•<•>/
' • -V
W&MBS©
©* - >:s}fc3rA^
»*A»
B*PW»
•■ if
| MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been |
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Vhosferme
Proven Remedy
FOR
N eurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolu'e proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the pre maturely aged Ne w Li fe and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes:
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs Ashton
& Parsons’ Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.’
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES, M.D., C.M..
Scrseon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton \Sc Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your courtesy, if, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the cost of postage
j | refunded to you. |
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and
other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High-pressure Stocks
generally. Best workmanship and material. Quotations supplied.
14 Martin Place, Sydney. a. maine heron, Manager.
m
r7 #9B
L&,
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which yon
are interested and fall particulars will come to you by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS - ,
CLASS OF LAND -
To Director, Intellicence a Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
“Patter”: I don’t want to crab the musical
director, but Sydney Tivoli should take two or
three of his kerosene tins from the drummer.
He’s an energetic chap and wants to give
good value; but the result is that some of
the selections and accompaniments are less
like music than a travelling tinker being
thrown down a flight of steps. It is very
annoying when you want to interrupt a
singer yourself with an interim criticism to
have your remarks drowned by the artist
with the chopsticks.
“C. Ockney”: An English author, object-
ing to the maltreatment of his MS. at the
hands of the London actor-manager who had
accepted it, recently carried his objections
to the Law Courts with successful • results.
The manager was Charles Hawtrey and the
playwright the not entirely unknown Monck-
ton Hoffe. llawtrey had started rehearsals
and advertised the date of production of the
new piece. The title according to Charles
was to be “According to John.” But this
was not the view of the author, who some-
what unexpectedly applied for an injunction
to prevent Hawtrey producing the play,
alleging that the cast wasn’t suitable and
that the title had been altered without his
consent. The Law was sympathetic and
when a week or two later Hoffe’s offering
was staged it bore the author’s original
name, “Anthony in Wonderland.”
“M.P.A.”: Malini, the chubby little con-
jurer lately at Melbourne Athengeum, is a
somewhat different hanky-pankyist.. He is,
first of all, a carpet-bag magician and
secondly a master of suggestion. As a
matter of fact, the whole game is based on
suggestion, so personality plays a great part.
Malini has nothing new in the way of tricks,
and all of ’em are drawing-room wheezes at
that; but he gets more out of his items than
I had thought possible. He is the type of
magician who can simply spiflicate one in a
club or bar-parlor. In a hall his tricks,
being close-up stuff, are lost on the chap who
only parts a nimble bob and is too far aw r ay.
Working in a hall Malini should crowd more
items into the programme, otherwise his
audience will not get enough of him. He
has a tiny fat fist of the make that small
change won’t slip through, and he does the
cleanest work with it that I have seen. On
the other hand, he is the most audacious of
the many deceptionists I have seen at work
—in a different, class from men like Howard
Thurston and Allan Shaw. These are digi-
tal dexterity experts l, who really amount to
card and coin jugglers. Malini is the first
man in the game to pull after-dinner feats
into a hall-show with success, and get a
full 10 minutes out of turns that the aver-
age performer is finished with in a fifth of
the time.
Time was when Sarah Bernhardt suffered
considerable inconvenience from having ham-
pered herself with a husband, whose name,
by the way, was Damala. Thirty years ago
there were some legal proceedings in France
for the purpose of invalidating some theatri-
cal contracts which' Sarah had entered into.
The argument was that, under French law,
a married actress couldn’t make contracts
without her husband’s consent. Sarah over-
came the difficulty somehow. All her life
the masterful woman has had her own way.
When she came to Australia her way was to
have 100 golden sovereigns handed to her by
the management every morning before break-
fast. »
Percy Dix, vaudeville merchant, who
passed out at Newcastle (N.S.W.I lately,
threatened at one time to be a grand duke
in variety enterprise. Some 15 years ago he
ran a circuit in M.L., and dished up
a star programme for his patrons. But he
killed his show by making it too good for the
treasury; and when he tried to prune his
salary-list his public forsook him. Twelve
years ago he left M.L., and put up his sign
at the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle, where lie
compromised with his ideals and kept his
bread buttered.
“Anti-Rag”: I’m going to apply for a
Supreme Court injunction against Minnie
Love if she feeds us with any more musical
mo-lasses of the “Baby Doll” brand. In
“The Pink Lady,” at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney. she steps right outside her cheerful,
frothy part to wail something like this for
her worshipping gallery gifls:—
When you’re a long, long way from home,
You think you never more will roam ;
You cannot find a chum that’s true
That you can tell your troubles to.
And when you write a letter home
Your mother’s voice rings in your ear.
And you cross the t’s with kisses (Patented in the
U.S.).
Oh, what a strange world this is! (“Say, Bud,
that ought to hit ’em where they live!”)
And then you dot the i’s with tears. • (Picture
rights reserved.)
And all the world is filled with gloom
When you’re a long, long way from home!
I’m willing to bet that the line about
mother’s voice ringing in your ear could
not have been written seriously in any coun-
try but Wilson’s. In the inartistic Yankee’s
mind the drama of life is inextricably tangled
up with the ’phone.
A RECIPE FOR ROMEO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. .the right amount of temperament and
treacle into the part of Romeo.’’—B. S/3/’l7.
, Oh, sugary, e'en molassine
This Dago’s story! Potty
He is at first o’er Rosaline,
And then on Juliet dotty!
Looking as if he fed on tarts,
This most romantic freak’ll
Score all the tricks if he’ll but mix
His temperament with treacle.
In ev’ry scene our Romeo
Must gush with youthful ardor—•
The lolly-merchant of the show,
With no touch of the larder.
Then fresh young critics of to-day
As well as those antique’ll
Gladly admit that he is It —
True temperament and treacle!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


A
IP
M
w
I
——“On the way to the Station, stop
at the Chemist’s for your tube of
Orlyon's
PERFECT
Dental Cream
A. Standard Ethical Dentifrice
The twice-a-day use of DR. LYON’S Dental Cream with the twice-a-
year visit to the dentist has been established by time as the ideal method
of Good Teethkeeping . Your children cannot begin too early to
form this habit. For those who have a preference for a Tooth
Powder the use of Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder is suggested.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Dental Cream or Tooth Powder.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Victoria Street, Wellington, N. Z. 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CONDENSED
IS
PURE COWS’ MILK
CONDENSED AND
STERILIZED
WITH ONLY
PURE CANE SUGAR
ADDED.
MILK.
RICHEST IN CREAM.
,
y'lJy' l
' V
m
-j
__
fl'l
@33
111
1
m
EST
fa
ST
STU
ONDENSED
4lLfi
:.STLI
CONDENSED
a coN _°L N i
Hb
s 2
' T
NESTBR
m
ii!
M
Hr
mmm.
3?
LO-5W155C01
R L«no: LON DO/
T<i
jffIfFSWISSCONW
LONDON
and
P-SWISSCO:
■ -RLamd; londQ
sA
j LO-SWISSCONDE
[^|l
I# 1
m
M
tit
LONDON
as
VI
«?
w
. m
I
EVERY
TIN
GUARANTEED


Legal Notices.
"|~O HERBERT CONOLLY, who was born at Picton,
New Zealand, in 1865, and was last heard of at
South Yarra, Victoria, in 1909, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of the Honorable
Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.Q., Chief Justice of New
Zealand, under Section 25 of The Public Trust Office
Amendment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send in to the undersigned on or before the Ist
day of May, 1917, your claim to part of the estate
of Emily Conolly, late of Remuera, Auckland,
married woman, deceased, who died on the 27th
July, 1900, intestate, failing which such estate will
be distributed among the persons entitled thereto
disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 11th day of January,
1917.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
No. 1470.
IN DIVORCE.
Between CHARLES WILSON RIDLEY
Petitioner,
And ELIZABETH RIDLEY Respondent.
TO ELIZABETH RIDLEY formerly of
the City of Wellington but now of address
unknown.
WHEREAS Charles Wilson Ridley claim-
ing to have been lawfully married to you has
filed his Petition against you in the Supreme
Court at Wellington wherein the Petitioner
alleges that you have been guilty of deser-
tion of him for five years and upwards AND
WHEREAS by order of the said Court
made on the 16th day of March 3 017
it was ordered that service of the Citation
extracted with a copy of the Petition herein
be effected by publishing an advertisement
once in the Sydney Bulletin and twice in
a Melbourne Daily Evening Newspaper
containing a summary of the Citation
and Petition. You are therefore notified that
unless within thirty days from the date of
the last publication of this advertisement
you attend at the Registrar’s Office, Supreme
Court, Wellington, and file an answer to
the said Petition this cause will be dealt
with in your absence. A copy of the Citation
and Petition will be supplied on application
to the Supreme Court Office, Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 21st day of
March. 1917.
(1.5.) W. A. HAWKINS, Registrar.
Mr. C. 11. Treadwell is Solicitor to the
Petitioner whose address for service is at his
Office, No. 4 Panama Street, Wellington.
Note.— Should any person know the
Respondent’s address he is requested to send
this at once to her.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1“ IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS, 2.30.
TIVOLI TOLL I KS.
THE BIG FUN SHOW.
Plans: Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
-|"IVOLI MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
ALL VAUDEVILLE BILL.
MALCOLM .McEACHERN, FRED BLUETT,
NEVILLE-ROSE DUO, BELLE OLIVER, MARIE
KING-SCOTT, LONZO COX, THE TAKINESS, THE
FLYING WEAVERS, STEWART AND LORRAINE
AND CLEMENT MAY.
Plan at Glen’s.
UER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
1 ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY, including
FLORENCE YOUNG, in the London and New York
Brilliant Success,
[ THE PINK LADY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
pi AIACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. TAIT’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in
VERY GOOD LDDIE.
BARRY LUPINO as “EDDIE.”
Smartest and Brightest of Musical Comedy Successes,
p EPERTORY THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NEXT SATURDAY AND FOR TWO WEEKS.
NEW AUSTRALIAN SPORTING
COMEDY.
JUNKER,
from Con Drew’s successful book.
Bulletin: “These stories of the underworld of the
spieler are most realistically told.”
Complete specially selected cast headed by
FRED MACDONALD.
(Bert Bailey Co.).
Prices: '4/-, 3/-, 2!/-, 1/-. Direction Oswald Anderson.
\A/X RTH S ’ NEW HIPPODROME.
ww HAYMARKET.
i EVERY EVENING AT 8 p.m.
Maftinees Wednesda3's, Saturdays and all Holidays.
WIRTHS’ GREAT CIRCUS AND
! MENAGERIE OF PERFORMING
WILD ANIMALS.
Book your Reserved Seats at Nicholson's, Hotel
Australia and the Hippodrome, 5/-
Other seats 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, plus war tax.
’Phone 1234 City.
NLY TWO WORDS—BUT WHAT REAL
JOY.
WHITE CITY
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darling-hurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE SMART SET
(from LONDON).
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
Amusements.
Trryrw
TRIANGLE PLAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session ;
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
\V.‘ Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
Eli .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present the Saucy and
Piquant Musical Play,
CANARY COTTAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til EAT RE ROVA L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their new
English Comedy Co. in
FAIR AND WARMER.
A Play of Temperature and Temperament.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and !/■
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
THE GONSAL EZ OPER A CO.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), GIOCONDA.
FRIDAY, LUCIA.
SATURDAY, CARMEN.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBO U R N E.
Lessees Messrs. BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
For the'First Time in Australia.
J. & N. TAIT’S NEW COMEDY COMPANY in
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A Play of Mirth and Morals
by Winchell Smith and John E. Hazzard.
Box Plan Allan’s.
|M|AJESTIC THEATRE,
"■ Flinders St. (near Station), Jlelbourne.
BEGINNING ON SATURDAY.
THE SECOND FEATURE OF
BILLIE BURKE
in
GLORIA’S ROMANCE.
Entitled “The HARVEST OF SIN.”
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE'.
Showing the pick of the world's best films, in-
cluding the productions of Fox, Vitagraph, World,
Path#, Selznick and Mutual-Chaplin.
BRITANNIA THEATRE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
pAREWELL, ST. HILDA! FAREWELL!
SATURDAY, 31st MARCH.
POSITIVELY LAST APPEARANCE OF
THE HANDIES.
SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
Plans rapidly filling. Glen's and Haber's.
1“ HE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
SECOND WEEK. SECOND WEEK.
CONTINUOUS SUCCESS
of
THE WORLD-FAMED
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan at Allan’s.
MELBOURNE.
EASTER ATTRACTION.
Two Performances Daily, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
WILLIAM FOX presents
A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS,
Featuring
Miss ANNETTE KELLERMANN.
Popular Prices. Plans at Allan’s.
p I R C H & C A R7i O L L
° (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTIIWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.3.W.
Telephone 72G0,
4 lines.
P.O. Box 1610.
Telegrams—
Australia,
Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather' for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH. Manager.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 22nd March, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of an Electric Jib
Crane for Workshops, Henderson
Naval Base, W.A.
will fie received until 12 noon,
-L 16th May, 1917, for the supply and
delivery of an Electric Jib Crane for Work-
shops, Henderson Naval Base, W.A. Deliv-
ery to be made f.o.r. Fremantle.
Tender forms, specifications, etc., may be
obtained on application at the Office .of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; and at the Naval Staff Offices,
Brisbane. Edgecliff (Sydney), Birkenhead
(S.A.). Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for Jib
Crane” on top left-hand corner of envelope
and addressed (if by post pre-paid) to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office.
Melbourne; or the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, c/o one of the above-mentioned
addresses, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
. JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Missing Friends.
ILLIAM JOHN last heard
▼ v of by letter, written about liO years
ago, from G-Nalta Station, via Broken Hill, is
entitled to share with other relations in the
Estate of his Uncle, SAMUEL HAMMETT
BROWN, deceased. If living, please com-
municate at once with P. D. PHILLIPS,
FOX & OVEREND, Solicitors, 414 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
m
im
m
\\l ILLIAM ERNEST COOKE, who was recently in
vv ttiu employ of Mr. Buchanan, of Tallangatta,
Victoria, should communicate at once with Messrs.
LOWE & CO., of 2 Temple Gardens, London, England,
Solicitors, who have news to his advantage. .
INFORMATION WANTED regarding
the whereabouts of JOHN PEACOCK,
Motor Engineer, formerly of Girvan, Ayr-
shire, Scotland, who emigrated to Australia
in 1911 (arrived Sydney about April, 1911).
If he will communicate with the Subscribers
he will hear of something to his advantage.
MURRAY & TAIT,
Solicitors.
Girvan, Ayrshire.
BROWNE. —Information is required as
to GEORGE KENNY BROWNE, who
formerly lived at the Crescent, Clontarf,
Dublin, Ireland; later, 1909, in Townsville
Hospital; afterwards at Nelson, Cairns,
North Queensland, Australia. Reply to
ARTHUR GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor,
121 Stephen’s Green, W. Dublin, Ireland.
Re JOHN BARROW.
TF the CHILDREN of JOHN BARROW, who died
x in Australia, and who was the brother of SARAH
RACHEL BARROW', of Bath, in the County of
Somerset, England, and which said Children “were
believed to be at one time resident in Mount Gambier,
near Adelaide, will apply to the undersigned, they
will hear of something to their advantage.
MOSER & SONS, Solicitors,
59 Highgate, Kendal, Westmorland, England.
26th January, 1917.
Business Notices.
<?
>
for
QUICK RESULTS'
USE
(|PILLdRINE
If you decide to shave your
Moustache don’t leave off using
CAPILLARINE. It will strengthen
the hair-roots in the meantime,
and the Moustache will be more
luxuriant when you decide to grow
it again.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CPAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 Ceorgre St.
SYDNEY.
George hotel,
St. Kiida, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
gsd
Abbey Shoes
are made not only for smart appear-
ance, but for comfort and long
service. They are the very
highest grade in quality, design
and finish.
We illustrate a smart, AlLPatent
Oxford Shoe. Very highest grade,
30/- and 357-
Tan Willow Calf, 27/6 and 357-
Postage extra.
In hajf and full sizes, and narrow,
medium and wide fittings.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between 0.P.0. and hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Lxjc/una
CURES ECZEMA.
Exzerma is a liquid compound, non-poisonous, ami
cures eczema with amazing rapidity and thorough-
ness. The worst and most obstinate cases- yield to
its influence speedily and a permanent cure is
effected Numerous testimonials have been received
from all parts of Australia giving evidence of its
genuineness. No home in the bush should be without
it, and it is invaluable for burns, prickly heat, etc.,
in addition to eczema. [7
All Chemists & Druggists, or
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
SI: 2/6
Make Sure of a
Clean, Sanitary Bowl
by using Sani-Flush, the only
preparation that effectually
cleans the hidden trap, pre-
vents odors, makes dipping of
water and scrubbing unnec-
essary. Sprinkle a little in the
bowl every day.
Directions on every can of
Sam-Flash
»s
m
m
Thf trap^
Uniq u e
nothing else
like it. Not a
general clean-
ser, but made
only to clean
toilet bowls.
Does not
injure plumb-
ing connec-
tions.
Ask
Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani-Flush or can
get it quickly; or write us a card
giving your dealer’s name and we
will have you supplied.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St. t
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St.,
Sydney, N. S.W.
Obtainable from
JOHN DANKS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Trial Free by Post
:! A rash broke out on the back of my
baby and it began to spread down over
the legs. She suffered
very much with the rash
and could not bear the
clothes to touch her,
and the skin was so
irritating that she would
scratch until she made
it bleed. She could not
sleepandwasverycross.
ffn
She was ill for about twelve months.
4 ‘I determined to tiy the Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment. I used them
for about three months and now there is
not a sign of a mark on her.” (Signed)
Mrs. Maude Scott, 66 0 ? Grady St.,
Clilton Hill, Vic., August 7, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres :
•22
•280
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE*
The Standard Remedy which lias outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
ELIY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
ELEY .410 ‘‘Four-ten’’
Loaded with ifILE-Y Smokeless Powder
fans aa
gsd
ELEY .22 Long; Rifle
“E” Brand
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only :
ELEY BROS.L-LONDON
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. „
SUCCe S&EADOFFICE: .i n B hfpiTT STREET, SYDNEY
M *•<£
RICIIARD eI TEECE, n, F E I S .A., F.F.A., F.S.S.. General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,7 <O,OOO.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
. divided for one vear. 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £2o,GiU,uu .
1110 The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospee u*
and full information without delay.
—rough-road, hard-wear Tyres
—tyres that stand up under the worst conditions of road in the hottest
climates— the wonderful Palmer Cord Tyres 1
Palmer Cord Tyres lessen motoring troubles abroad.- They are cool at high speeJ. The friction-
eliminating cords ensure that. They rarely puncture and. with them, bursts are practically unknown.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are made for Light and Heavy
Motor Cars, Cycle Cars, Motor
Cycles, and Aeroplanes.
PALMER
FABRIC
forms the re-inforce-
ment of the lower-priced
Mo.or Cycle Tyres,
of all Cycle Tyres
and Tyres for Auto-
Wheels. The Palmer
Patent Cord is a deve-
lopment from it.
Palmer Fabric consists
of parallel threads insu-
lated from one another
in pure rubber. They
cannot cross, or chafe,
or sag.
in all
sizes, with
the three-
ribbed rub-
ber and the
steel studded
treads.
Palmer Patent Cords
follow the same idea, cords
replacing threads. Each
cord is built up of many
threads all insulated in pure
rubber.
A
saa*
O.
w
p?i
w&
mm
'•••:'•
.••-sP
H
IS*
ass
si?
W*
■V.'.vi
;... : r'-
««
The
PALMER TYRE LTD.,
Chief Offices & Showrooms,
119/123, Shaftesbury Ave.,
London, W. C., England.
(3) (|)
CALL FROM NEAREST AGENCY.
LITERATURE FREE BY POST OR
Agency for
Motor Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co., Ltd.,
279 Ceorge St.,
Sydney.
E
m*°THßcc'TfSa S rft£AJ> )
©orpTyme
Agency for
Motor Cycle and
Cycle Tyres.
The India Rubber,
Cutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co. i Ltd.,
279 Ceorge St.,
Sydney.
g
dsg
To York.
v
LOO T
(0
DICK TURPIN
Many a midnight ride is easier and safer
because the motorist has a tank full ot
“Plume” Spirit. Motoring by night means
a better pulling car, for the night air
contains a much greater percentage o
oxygen and the more oxygen the more
powerful the explosion.
Plume Motor Spirit
Easy Starting—Sweet Running—More Miles
A remarkable feature of “Plume is the
large amount of air it takes, Natura y,
the more air your Motor Spirit takes, t
cheaper the running cost, which accoun
for the great economy of Plume. iou
get more miles to the gallon, clean cylinders
and easy starting.
Correct Lubrication
Gargoyle Mobiloils seal the clearance of
the Piston arid give full lubrication. There
is a special grade of Mobiloil specially
manufactured for your car. Write for tree
Recommendation Chart, showing the oil
you should use in your car. A grade tor
each type of Motor.” For sale at all dealers
and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Z-ealan
Sg|Sl^
/.<vuV\
The Inky Way.
Passed out in the U.S.A., Luther Brad-
ley, one of the best-known cartoonists in the
Neutral States. Born in Connecticut in
1553, and educated at Yale, Bradley was
nearly 30 before he discovered that his pen-
cil could earn him a living. He was then
a free-lance on the inky way in Melbourne
■—that was some 30 years back. Afterwards
he was political cartoonist on Melbourne
Paunch. Early in the ’nineties he went back
to Uncle Sham’s country, and since 1899
had been chief artist on Chicago Daily
News. For the first two years of the pre-
sent European .earthquake, Bradley’s car-
toons supported President M ilson s view
that the pen is mightier than the sword as
well as a durn sight safer; but lus recent
work has whooped for America’s entrance
into the war.
* * *
The British “Bradshaw’s Guide,” which
recently reached its 1900th issue, announces
a rise in price from sixpence to a shilling as
the result of war conditions. The original
Bradshaw was a cute Quaker who in the
early years of railway development foresaw
that a handy guide to the various railway
lines would be good business. Its Quaker
origin is still stamped on its face. The
latest number to hand is dated‘T irst month,
1917.” Quakers object to the "pagan
names” of the months that are in common
use - . . *
“Wart”: On March 12 the Launceston
Examiner was three-quarters of a century
old. In its earliest days it appeared only
on Saturday afternoons; six months later a
Wednesday issue was added; in 185rf it
came out tri-weekly ; in December, 1N u, it
was printed daily. It is claimed to be one
of only about four papers in Australia that
can look back 75 years and see themselves
under the same names that they carry to-uay.
* * *
“Old Hand”: First published on March
12 1842 the 75-year-old Launceston Exam-
iner is easily the oldest of the Tasmanian
newspapers. Its first issue gave the news
of the birth of the late King Edward, which
had happened four months before; but it has
got a little more rapid since then. Though
a provincial sort of sheet, it has not beei
unprogressive. Seventeen years ago it began
to battle for the development of the Speck s
water-power, and editor Prichard never let
the subject sleep once it had been raised.
The Examiner’s offices, too, are as handy
and well-arranged, on a small scale, as any-
thing in Australia. # „
“S.T.S.”; A year or so ago someone writ-
ing iii The Bulletin called attention to the
snobbishness of English short-story writers,
who still pictured every officer a thoroughbred,
every private-an illiterate person, although
the rush into the ranks has made the modern
private quite likely to be the superior of Ins
officer in education, wealth and everything
else but “influence.” Surely this is at least
as true in the Australian army. Yet our
writers have settled down to make eveiy
Australian private call himself a bloke,
swear with every sentence, say wuz tor
“was,” and drop the letter h all over the
trenches. English writers are under no
such delusion. They tend to make every
Anzac an improbably godlike person, the
ideal short-story hero. But even that is
far better than the pride-of-the push theory.
Why should our stay-at-home humorists be
allowed to earn Is. 6d. by assuring the
world that all the better men than themselves
who have enlisted are illiterateV (This pro-
test is not intended for Dennis, whose Ginger
Mick is a line and recognisable type.. It is
meant for those who have got into the
careless habit of imagining a Ginger Mick
inside every suit of khaki that hasn t buttons
on the shoulder.) # #
It isn’t the sort of thing y#u expect of
Melbourne Argus : — 1
Young unmarried couple want unfurnished flat, or
small house; Hawksburn, .South Yarra, Hast Mel-
bourne ; must be select. Argus office.
The dear old thing must have forgiven
everything else on account of that reserva-
tion—“must be select.”
* * * *
“Copy Boy” : One ,of the most promising
of war babies is The Stretcher, born in
the camp of the Camel Brigade Field Ambu-
lance at Seymour (Vic.). The verse, photo-
graphs. articles and drawings are of quite
respectable merit, the bandaging of punctu-
ation wounds and rendering of first-aid to
rocky lines having been carefully attended
to by editor Charlie Barrett, who was a
Melbourne Herald sub-editor before turning
from the blue pencil to the Red Cross. It
is understood that the next number of The
Bulletin’s esteemed contemporary will be
brought out in Egypt.
* * ~ * *
IV. H. Mudford, the editor who raised Lon-
don Standard to the highest pinnacle of
prosperity and lived to see it extinguished
in gloom and disaster, accumulated a tidy
fortune of £65,288, He bequeathed four-
twentieths of his estate to the D°S S> Home
and three- twentieths to the Newspaper Press
doesn’t sound too complimen-
tary to his old journalistic colleagues. Hos-
pitals and the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals .will feed on most of
what is left.
* * * *
Thomas Flavell, who died the other day
in the Cold Country, aged 79, was an Angli-
can parson in Maoriland for a quarter of a
century— mostly at Merivale. He was also
inspector, of church schools in Christchurch
diocese, and ran an Anglican paper down
that way for some years. Since 1904 he
had been a.Devonshire vicar, following the
inky track in his spare time in Macmillan’s
and other English magazines.
****
A bright junior worked a good one. into
Brisbane Telegraph in ’9B. It was an inter-
view with Fison, Inspector of Fisheries, who
remarked to the cadet that oysters were
beginning to “spat”, in Moreton Bay. This
kind of language was altogether too coarse
for the cub, who made it that the bivalves
were commencing to “expectorate” in More-
ton Bar. And it got through.


ds
19
li
A
[PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIP!
0.
v/
Marine. Stationary & Portable Engines.
THE “SKANDIA” IN WEST AUSTRALIA
PEARLING SCHOONER—3O-h.p. “ SKANDIA.”
NELSON g ROBERTSON.
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
Safe to use on painted woodwork
Bon Ami looks like a scouring
soap but it is much softer and
finer, and won’t scratch. You can
use it to clean nice white paint
for instance.
The soft, porous, crumbly min-
eral in Bon Ami picks up the grime
and leaves the paint looking fresh
and new. It is a hundred times
better than soap and water and
just as harmless to the paint.
Also for windows and mirrors—
it won’t scratch even the most
delicate plate glass. And for bath
tubs, t’le and polished metal
For an the
Finer Kinds of
ng&Cleaning
At your grocers.
"There is nothing else like it.”
The Pen
v/ith the
t
reputation
CEOBC
KHv
*
\
A
<#/
*?* N> “
i/M?
v
ry «*
Watermans Udem) Fountain Pen
Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pen is the simplest and the
best. It is beautifully made, a pleasure to handle, a still
greater pleasure to use. With ordinary care it will last
a lifetime. Why not buy a Waterman’s Ideal to-day ?
No other pen will give you the same satisfaction.
Waterman’s Ideal is a perfect treasure to any writer.
Three types— Regular, Safety, and Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere,
L. G. Sloan, Oye^ienCorner, London, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105. Clarence Street, Sydney.
'*
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Lr l
0
D
gsd
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing c
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
British Made. Box of 5, 2/6 post free
M'
SB}
m
w.
mm
mViiii
m
m
■I
immi
mm
-
824. Boswell’s BUgh-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, ‘
12-gauge, top lever, Anson and Deeley action, barrels both clioke, side
noit, chambered for 2$ cartridges, nitro proved, pistol grip, elaborately
engraved; weight about 71b. soz Delivered
‘The Reliable,”
clips, Greener X
£l7/10/-
Serd for our new edition
(31 FI 3arms and Sport-
ing Cctilogue. Post Free.
m
811. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.L. Gun,
<h£ a nJ;. e, J 0p } ev ,! r V b ?J a chpn, 30in. real twist or steel barrels,
<^^o # ss ’ b f^ )lt • botb cboke > rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
half , . 2 Jin- cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders;
nan-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from 711 b. to 741 b. Delivered
£7/10'-
WE. REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
7
fc>
kV
“SWEET CROP”
Cigarettes, really
delightful. 6d.
pkt., post free.
10 pkts. 5/-, post
free.
818. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-incli steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal-
nut stock; weight about 71b Delivered
£B/7/6
£B/12/6
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels
Delivered
522!* Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
r
H
■
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or
IG-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about
7ilb.; of 16-gauge, about 611 b . Delivered
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge, 30in. barrels, 7/6 extra.
£.515/-
“SURE CATCH’’ANGLERS’ GUIDE
B 2), post free to any address.
g
817. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L. Pigeon
Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, dense l’rogan nitro steel, 32-inch barrels
both choke. Greener cross-bolt, high file-cut rib, pistol-grip ’ chambered for
2Jiu. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight, 71b. to 7ilb. Delivered....-
We can supply the above gun in 16-gauge Delivered, £7/10/*
£7
Durham Duplex Safety Razor,
complete with six blades 6/6,
post free.
sdg
832.
“The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels,
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 71b
45/-
Postage on one Gun —2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State.
)m
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12
gauge, top action,
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 6Jlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
bi-Non-Ejector, 22/0 ; 82-Auto-Ejector, 25/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.;
4/R Inter-State.
ac
msnwLm's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
and TOBACCONISTS
d
City Sports Depot
113 Kind St also at
Newcastle d Brisbane


A TRIBUTE TO REXONA
from Somewhere in France
TROOPER
BERT LYON
(from a photo).
£
It is with great pleasure that I sit
in my dug-out to write you a few
lines in praise of your wonderful
Ointment, Rexona. It was first intro-
duced to me by a friend many years
ago, while I was still a schoolboy.
I had met with an accident and had
a had leg for three years. It would
•not heal, no matter what I used. 1
was simply tired of buying things
when a mate of mine said. “You get
a tin of Rexona, it is a marvellous
ointment.” I did so, and never
regretted it. I have been a constant
user ever since, for it cured my leg
in six weeks, hardly leaving a scar.
I have recommended it to many,
and, when leaving W.A. for service
abroad, I took two tins with me,
and have always had a tin sent
out every month since. I have car-,
ried it through Egypt, Gallipoli,
and now I have it in France.
In Egypt and on Gallipoli It
was very good; one suffered many
sores owing to the septic poison
in the earth, and also to shortage
of washing water, but needless
to .say I suffered none of these,
owing to my carrying Rexona. Here
in France it does great work; when
one is in the wet for hours it is
very easy to get. chilblains, etc., but
Rexona soon banishes these. I met
a French girl who had a very bad
rash on her hand. It would not
heal, so I gave her some Rexona,
and it soon disappeared. She was
greatly pleased. I have since given
her a tin.
Many males have given It great
praise out here, so I thought it mj
duty to let you know this.
I am. Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.)
No. 2078 Trooper BERT LYON,
2nd Anznc Headquarters,
8.E.F., France
First at the Front and First at Home
The wonderful healing powers of Rexona have made
boys at the Front. For Cuts, Chafing: and Burns of all
Healer, is without an equal.
Don’t delay—make a wise investment by bu-inur two
your home use —the other for your friend at the Front.
Rexona is sold in two-size triangular tins, ni j <>, or
four times the quantity), at 3/-
it a password among the
kinds Rexona, the Rapid
tins of Rexona, one for
large size (holding nearly
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
» n *
YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘Jelloids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote Impoverished blood can be
'“made rich and good by means of Iron ‘Jelloids’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU.
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS' No. 2A.
For Ancemia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-.
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
'VO
(Pronounced Jell -Lloyds)
BOV Rf L
Gives
Stamina and
Staying
Power.
Increases
the Defensive
Forces of
the Body,
gd
r * any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Night on Our Continent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON sea-worn cliffs, thrust forward,
The twilight drops its cloak. „
As winging swiftly shoreward
The last gull seeks its folk.
The sky and sea seem blended.
Each merging into each ;
The waves, their journey ended,
Fall down upon the beach.
Brown arms steel-muscled, grimly
Their long sweeps landward ply :
A sail, greyed too, shines dimly
Against grey sea and sky.
A ceaseless dirge of waters
Sounds ever south and north:
And in the east Night’s daughters,
Come stealing shyly forth.
From realms of beauty speeding
In unseen chariot-cars
They come, Queen Venus leading
Her maid-of-honor stars.
The land and sea are kneeling
In love and reverence bent;
Star after star revealing
New realms of wonderment.
As when some royal rover
At length reclaims his own, •
Vast Night, his exile over,
Ascends his kingly throne.
On Toil that aches for leisure,
On hearts that long for calm,
He pours itt ample measure
The largesse of his balm.
With tender touch he closes
Tired eyes in sweet content;
And 'neath his sway reposes
Our mighty continent.
Oh, that some master-maker
Of pictured scenes once more
Would paint Night’s crested breaker
Upon Night’s mystic shore!
The little streams that prattle,
The full floods flaked with white ;
The herds of camping cattle,
Horns gleaming through the night;
Wild steers and heifers rushing
In swift, disordered ranks,
Fleet hoofs the dead leaves crushing.
Tall horsemen at their flanks ;
A drover by his camp-fire,
Red flames that sink and leap,
And on his breast a vampire
That will not let him sleep;
Wide spaces robed in sable,
Tall gumtrees, gaunt and dead ;
Fair children round a table.
Dark rafters overhead ;
Night-riders keenly eyeing
Tree-shadows, dense and black :
A hunted horseman flying
Along a mountain track :
A slush lamp dimly burning,
A woman weeping there,
Eyes wide, and grave, and yearning-
Near by a vacant chair;
Swart diggers worn and beaten.
Brown hands and buried head ;
A last, dry crust half eaten,
Hope done, and promise fled ;
Two lovers softly Wooing,
A sliprail gate, a creek
Its noiseless way pursuing,
Cheek lightly pressed on cheek.
Oh, that some great magician,
Sbme master-brush were sent
To paint with Rembrandt vision
Night on our continent!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Regarding “The Age.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PROFITS in groceries run in half-
pennies. It is the quantity that
tells. This is the difference between
the grocer and the chemist. The chemist’s
costs run in halfpennies, but people do not
buy medicine like they do sardines and
pickles, otherwise you would get your
“mixtures” cheaper.
Phupps, the grocer on the corner, had a
small customer in one early morning.
“Muvver says to gimme a Age. and not to
forget to say please”—putting a penny on
the counter.
Phupps silently handed over the morning
paper, and put the penny in the till. Busi-
ness went on in fits and starts for about an
hour, when a gentleman came in shirt-sleeves
and slippers for some middle-cut of bacon
and half a pound of butter, which Phupps
served with deference. While he was cutting
the bacon the small customer returned with
the crumpled-up Age.
“Muvver says it isn’t the Age she wants,
but an aig, and not to forget to say she’s
sorry.”
“Tell yer mother with my compliments ter
teach yer to speak correctly,” said Phupps
sarcastically. “And also tell ’er with my
compliments not ter keep the paper till she
gets the guts outer the war news before she
remembers it’s a egg she wants.”
Turning to the gentleman in shirt-sleeves
and slippers he commented : “The people in
this distric’ is full of points. If I might say,
it is not a selec’ neighborhood, with all due
respec’ to you. sir. We ’ave some rum ’uns
’ere, and that’s a fact; but the mother and
father of this child takes the biscuit.”
He handed an egg to the child, and the
child left. Phupps leaned his two hands on
top of the bacon knife, the front of which
rested on the counter.
“It’s ’ard enough to make a livin’ out of
groceries at any place, but there’s no points
in it in this part. The mother and father of
that little child is holy terrors, and there’s
no other word that fits ’em. This dodge of
a Age and a egg is, comparatively-speakin’,
a new one. Y’see, they’ve borrowed the paper
till people won’t stand ’em any more, and
now they’re gettin’ it on the egg dodge. This
is the third time they’ve come it on me. It
nseter be butter. The child comes in and
says: ‘ ’Alt' pound er the best butter, please.
When they say ‘please’ I ought ter be on me
guard. There’s always some point if they’re
extry polite. Well, later on in comes the kid
again, and says: ‘Mother says the best
butter.’ ‘Well,’ I says. 4 ’aven’t I give her
the best butter?’ ‘Mother says it’s only fit
for axle-grease, en if y’aven’t got any better
to give me the money back?’ When I weighs
the butter I finds it’s two ounces short.
Now, I puts it to you, sir, ’ow is it possible
to make a livin’ and keep respectable?"
“It’s hard, certainly,” admitted the cus-
tomer.
“It’s not on’y butter, but it’s spuds, too —
anything, in fact, that something can be
pinched from ; and that’s anything that’s not
in tins. And it’s worse if the man or the
Woman comes in themselves. They go round
tastin’ things till they've eaten a meal, en
liftin’ up the lids of the biscuit-tins, till I’ve
’ad to keep the biscuits in the back part of
the shop. That’s ’ow it is you don’t see any-
thing you can eat anywhere ’andy to cus-
tomers.
“The man is known to the ’awkers as‘The
Glutton.’ They live in that old red ’ouse —
No. 69. It is their own ’ouse, and they own
the place next door, which they let for six
shillin’s a week. They live on that. ’Ow .'
The Lord only knows. You see him sittin’
out at the front door all day lookin’ for
’awkers, and he shouts for ’em to come up in
a ’orrible voice you can hear five blocks
away. He eats one of everything on the
cart, and if his wife is near he calls her out
to eat a sample of each as well, and also give
some to the child, en then they won’t buy
anything. The ’awkers used to swear
’•orrible at first, till they found they was back-
numbers in swearin’, and now you never see
tt ’aAVker come near the street. They’re afraid
of him.
“It’s not on’y th’ ’awkers is afraid of him.
Everybody is afraid of ’im, and in conse-
quence property ain’t what it was. Once the
street was quite uppish, but now people lives
in the ’ouses who have to take things as they
find ’em, and most of them can’t pay their
way, and it’s made business bad, and the
places they live in bein’ their own property
there’s no way of gettin’ rid of them.”
At this point Mr. Phupps lowered his
voice to almost a whisper, and spoke in a
more earnest tone.
“All this is bad enough, but —I don’t like
to mention such things, but he’s a 1.W.W..
he is. I’m a broad-minded Wesleyan myself,
fly broad-minded I mean if you tells me
you go to a church I won’t ask you what
church you goes to. This man we’re just
discussin’ tries ter get into conversation with
men who pass his house so he can argue if
there’s a supreme Bein’, and if lie can’t make,
’em agree with ’im he wants to fight ’em. en
livin’ so close to my shop don’t tend to make
business any better. ’Alt' a pound of butter
I think you said, sir?” he broke off hurriedly.
A woman with hot hair and a vehement
manner entered the shop.
“A word with you, Mr. Phupps,” she said
in a determined voice.
“In a minute, ma’am, in a minute.” Mr.
Phupps’s manner had become distinctly
uneasy. “Is there anything else you require,
sir
“What’s this you’ve bin tollin’ me kid? I
want a immedjit answer.”
“Really, Mrs. ”
“None of yer missusing, Phupps. Do y
think becos y’ keeps a shop that yer a multi-
millionaire and .able to lord it over the rest
of us like serfs? Let me tell y’ me ’usband
is a property-owner in this street, and if [e
wants a Age he can give his penny for it
with the rest of ’em. I’m not in the ’abit of
saying ‘egg’ when I mean ‘Age.’ ”
“Nobody does, me good woman,” said
Phupps. “They always say ‘Age’ when they
mean ‘egg,’ en that’s what I object to.”
“Well, I won’t have insinuations thrown
up at me and me ’usband, and that’s straight.
When it comes to character, it’s an’ ’orse of
a different color. Nobody’s goin’ ter say
that toeVe not respectable without goin’ on
their bended knees an’ apologisin’.”
“I didn’t say you was not respectable,
ma’am.”
“No, not in words, but y’ meant it. It’s
bin said before, but never a second time be
the same person. And who are you, I’d like
to know, you bald-’eaded, snuffle-bustin’,
dampin’-the-sugar cheat! Everybody knows
what you are. You’re the talk of the street,
y’ old pot-bellied apology for a man !”
Mr. Phupps was beginning to get warm
under the personalities.
“There’s one thing, me good woman,” he
said with dignity—“l’m not a atheist.”
“Now you’ve done it, Phupps,” cried the
woman, jumping up and down with wrath.
“I quite expect to ’ave me own character
torn to shreds when I come into the shop to
defend myself, but don’t you dare to cast
reflections on me ’usband. Don’t you dare!
Don’t you dare!”
“Will you leave my shop, please?” asked
Mr. Phupps.
“Now you done it, Phupps,” screamed the
woman, with pointed finger. “I didn't come
into your shop to raise a row. but now I’ll
tell you what I think of you. You!”
“Kindly leave me shop,” said Phupps,
firmly, with a look of steel in his usually
mild eyes.
“Yes, I’ll go, never to put a foot in it
again,” and with one last jump up and down
she whirled from the premises.
“As I was sayin’.” remarked Mr. Phupps,
after a few seconds, “this is not a selec’
neighborhood, and when you ’ave to do busi-
ness in it unpleasant things will occasionally
occur. Let me see, ‘ ’Alf a pound of bacon,
middle cut, it was, if I made no mistake, and
’alf a pound of butter?’ That will be”
' A big man with a creased face suddenly
pushed against the air into the shop. The
creases showed more darkly for want of
washing, and the man himself seemed to
radiate combative energy.
“Wot’s the bother, Phupps?” he asked in a
grating voice.
Phupps wilted. You could see him wilt.
He took up the bacon-knife by force of habit
and stuck it point down and rested both
hands on top of the handle.
“If I might say it, Mr. Donkin, yer missus
just come in and got unreasonably excited,
but nothing to make a fuss about. This
gentleman was here, and will tell you”
“I want no talk, you little skunk! You
can talk to wbmen, you measly pimple; but
(Continued on next page.)


DID?
DO YOU LOOK SO WELL AS YOU 0
Do you look so well as you once did? Do you feel so well? If not, have you sus-
pected your kidneys as the cause?
The uric acid and poisonous matters, kept back in the system by disordered kidneys,
soon tell on the looks—soon age the sufferer; the skin becomes sallow, the. eyes, lose
their lustre and become bloated, the cheeks are sunken. The disposition, too, is quickly
affected by kidney poisons ; the sufferer grows moody, listless, irritable, feels in every-
body’s way, and can’t be cheered.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills succeed in all cases of Kidney and Bladder trouble
because they are a true kidney medicine —they don’t act on the bowels, but give all their
healing powers to the kidneys, helping them in their great blood-purifying work. Doan’s
Pills begin at once to strengthen and tone up the tired kidney membranes, and help the
kidneys to drive out the clogging kidney poisons that cause aching back and pains in the
loins, urinary troubles and gravel, nervousness, dizzy spells and heart trouble, dropsy,
and the fatal Bright’s disease. Our neighbor’s word, given here is good proof of how
truly the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will help the sufferer.
V>y
kr
m
;•!; !>.!; If*
'3s!?.
11 m t
: A v
is.
O ft
Every
Picture
Tells
A Story ~
ONE YEAR CURED.
Mrs. H. Sturgeon, 70 Marlborough Street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, says:—“lt gives me
great pleasure to say a few words in praise
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. For a
good while I was a martyr to kidney trouble,
the symptoms being backache, urinary dis-
order and dizzy attacks. My back ached
fearfully, and every movement was accom-
panied with a twinge like the stab of a
knife. The kidney secretions were cloudy,
and scalded a good deal in passing, this
symptom clearly showing my kidneys were
very much out of order. I heard good
reports of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so
decided to give them a trial. The first
bottle gave me relief, and by the time I had
used three bottles I was cured, and I have
been well ever since—a period of over twelve
' months.”
Sydney
Proof
for
Sydney
People.
1G YEARS CURED.
Mr. Mark May, 59 Hansard Street,
Waterloo, Sydney, says:—“Off and on for
years I suffered with my kidneys. One
symptom was constant trouble with the
secretions, which were very unhealthy and
painful. Backache also troubled me a lot,
the pain being at times very severe. I tried
a great many remedies in the hope of being
cured, but it proved only waste of time.
When I first saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised I decided to get some, and I
am very pleased that I did, for they drove
away the backache, regulated the secretions
and strengthened and toned up my kidneys,
and made me generally feel 0.K.”
Sixteen years later Mr. May says:—-“I
am still free of every symptom of kidney
trouble, and have been since Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured me sixteen years
ago. These are fine pills for the kidneys.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per
bottle, or post free by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
gd
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
sg
•say what you have to say to me. Come, out
with it!”
“Really, Mr. Donkin,” said Mr. Phupps,.
looking very pale.
“I’ve always let you alone because I
always thought you too mean and paltry, me
only havin’ to do ■with men; but when yoa
accuse me of readin’ me Age without payin’
for it like a man, you’re hittin’’ up against
trouble.” He was beginning to get the full
strength of his lungs now. “And you called
me an atheist. Let me tell you I’m not an.
atheist. I’m an agnostic.”
He leaned over the counter and took Mr.
I’hupps by the shoulder and shook him
violently. Mr. Phupps turned red at the
touch and looked excited.
“Now, what am I?” asked the big man.
Mr. Phupps was genuinely angry now. “I
know what sort of a ’nostic you are,” he
shouted. “You’re not a agnostic. You’re a
cross between a AGE-nostie and a egg-nostic.”
Donkin fell back with astonishment. It
seemed preparatory to actually exterminat-
ing the grocer. Before he recovered speech,
however, Phupps darted round the counter
wildly waving the bacon knife and shouting,
“Get outer me shop l Go on ! Get outer me
shop !”
Donkin looked as if he would if he could,
but Phupps had cut off his communications
by coming out by the end near the door.
One moment Donkin looked uncertain
whether he would bluff it or fight it out, but
the wild waving of the bacon knife decided
the question.
’Alt’ a pound, of the middle cut it was,
and ’alf a pound of butter, making- one-and-
tennence-’alfpenny. Thanks! Always glad
to ’ave your patronage, sir. Good-morning.”
ROBERT BROTHERS.
The Rising of the Moon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILL SMITH, casual Australian and
electrician at the Opera House,
slowly walked up the stage to a small
wooden box, holding an electric globe and
faced with a disc, which was sus-
pended betweeli two vertical wires that
reached the roof.
From the dressing-rooms, which abutted
on the stage, came the rumble of bass and
the clearness of soprano against the commo-
tion of voluble Tuscan and .unadorned Aus-
tralian ; and the noise of the scenery, moving
heavily into place, competed with the orches-
tra tuning its instruments under the stage.
A scene depicting a mountain-top, with a
ponderous cloud effect, was lowered from the
“flies” for use as a back cloth, as Bill, in-
different to the atmosphere of temperamental
excitement associated with the opening night
of Italian Grand Opera, casually inspected
the box, which played an important part as
the moon.
To conveniently assist a harmonious
bestowal of her hand upon that lover who
was capable of the more passionate serenade,
it was necessary to the action of the opera
that the moon should appear when melodi-
ously summoned by the soprano.
The work of slowly raising the moon was
Bill’s; and in the hope of smoother working
the Italian stage-manager had marked three
lines on the back of the scene, laboriously
explaining to Bill that, upon a certain pas-
sage in the soprano’s solo, the moon would
be raised to the first line,' level with the
mountain-top; then, when the basso (who
was the villain, naturally) pledged his troth,
the moon, raised to the next line, would be
obscured by the cloud; finally, lifted higher
still, it would cause the tenor to burst into
triumphant melody as the clear moonlight
flooded the betrothal scene.
A painted gauze transparency let into the
scene helped the illusion.
“Eet ees importe!” the stage-manager
warned.
“It’ll be right, cully,” responded Bill, who
nevertheless felt that much would be left in
the hands of the gods.
The not-unpleasant dissonance from
under the stage increased in volume, and
died down; and the expectant tension was
broken by a loud voice, declaring his in-
tention of “jobbin’ the Dago,” while an
infuriated stage-manager, handicapped by
limited Australian, consoled himself by
snapping his fingers at a grinning stage-
hand and calling him a “deenkum cow !”
A sudden silence, settling over the
theatre as the conductor took his stand,
was felt on the stage. Then a jangled burst
of harmony drew a reverent gasp from the
weirdly-attired singers.
A chubby figure in peasant costume,
walking past Bill, touched his arm, and,
blowing a kiss airwards, rapturously ex-
claimed : “Ah. dat ees museec!”
“My oath!” grinned Bill. He switched
on the illuminant in the moon box as the
little soprano rustled round the scene.
“Da moon—you char-rge of, signor?” she
smiled.
“Call me Bill, lady,” he smiled in return.
“Quando —eet go up, make I cantellera-
mente. Cosi” —— fixing her dark eyes on
Bill’s abashed gaze she trilled the cue that
brought the moon peeping above the moun-
tain.
“I c’d listen to yer all night,” he mur-
mured as the song finished.
His eyes followed her as she tripped
down the stage, leaving him vaguely dis-
turbed. He was conscious of a jumbling
effect of flowering gums, purple distances
and singing birds.
The heavy-moustached basso, dressed in
vari-colored garb as a brigand, clanked
imperiously to the moon, and, clutching his
sword, threw his cloak around him with a
long-drawn “Ah-h-h !”
“Good-night, mate,” Bill affably greeted
him.
Frowningly the basso emitted another
“Ah-h-h !”
“ ’Ow’s she bumpin’?” asked Bill, feeling
the need of conversation. /'
“Quando io fatto”
“Hey, wait a bit. Now come agen !”
“Leve dela lune. Dela lune”—he pointed
to the moon. “Quando”
“Oh-h, I got yer. Yer gimme the cue to
push ’er up!”
“Io fatto”
“Wot’s the cue, though?”
“Io cantelleramente”
“Gorstrewth, turn it up!” Bill was
befogged. Making signs of raising the
moon he yelled : “W’en-w’eno do moono go
up?”
“Va via— I-go—sing !” Breathing deeply,
he rumbled a few bars of his song. A
light broke in. upon Bill. “Righto, leave
it ter me, mate. . Up she goes, w’en yer sing
‘La da da diddle omp !’ ” Majestically bow-
ing his thanks, which Bill returned, the
basso clanked away.
A tense silence fell as the overture fin-
ished. The singers, moving restlessly about
the wings, awaited their call.
Then the sickening thought that he had
forgotten the cue that raised the moon for
the soprano flashed into Bill's mind. Rush-
ing round from behind the scene, in an
attempt to find her, he crashed into the
tenor, a glorious creature, with pink and
white cheeks, who fluently poured a string
of native maledictions on the head of the
cretino.
“Beg pardon, ’Orace.”
Regaining his poise, the tenor pointed to
the moon.
“You dela June—up, eh? Io fatto cantel-
lera”
“I know,” interrupted Bill. “All yous
blokes ’ave been puttin’ that over me.
Wot’s the cue?”
“Ah-h, da basso seeng—no good! La
lune eet under-r go da cloud. lo—me seeng.
Ah-h, beautiful!” He blew a kiss skywards.
“No cloud —eet shine.”
“Yes, but wot partic’lar ‘lum tiddely on
pom’ do yer sing?”
The tenor blankly gazed at Bill for a
moment, then caught the drift of his
question.
“Ah—beautiful!” He drew himself up,
and extending his hands, broke the silence
with an expressive “La Donna”
From all parts of the stage came angry
cries.
“Go on, ’Orace,” urged Bill. “Don’t let
’em bluff yer.”
The tenor, resenting an imperious sh-sh
from the stage-manager, engaged him in
animated altercation, which only ceased
when the bell signalling the curtain-rise
sounded.
Bill tensely listened when the applause
greeting the soprano died away. Every note
she sang seemed familiar with the air
trilled behind the scene.
“Might as well chance it now,” he
decided, raising the moon.
A wild-eyed stage-manager breathlessly
rushed from the prompt corner, and
besought Bill to “Pull eet down !” Down
came the moon !
“You ar-re so soon,” he cried. “Now I
wait —I tell you.”
As the moon reappeared a laugh came
from the auditorium. Clutching Bill’s arm
he hissed : “You keel a. dees scene—l keela
you. So !” He thumped his heart.
“I’ll ’ave to dot yuh one,” remarked Bill,
“if y’ get too fresh.”
The rumbling notes of the basso now
broke in upon the lighter voice, and mark-
ing the line that would bring the moon
under the cloud, Bill vainly sought to dis-
tinguish the “la da da diddle omp” that
had been impressed on him. An imperative
“Queek!” broke his indecision, and Bill
excitedly gave the moon a sudden jerk,
which sent it above the cloud. Realising
that if left in that position it would inter-
fere’ with the serenade that followed, he
pulled it downwards to the marked line.
The song suddenly ceased, and the audience
greeted the action with a roar of laughter
that disconcerted the basso. The rolling
eye and white teeth of the stage-manager
showed round the scene, and Bill, growing
desperate under the exacting circumstances,
rolled his sleeves in a threatening manner.
The frantic Italian, however, kept his dis-
tance, contenting himself with a heartfelt
fluency of curse.
“Look 'ere, lad,” warned Bill. “Some?
body’ll get a crack on the nose ter-night.”
The lilting melody of the tenor, desiring
a brighter operatic moon, was disregarded
by the muttering electrician, who grimly
eyed the invocating stage-manager.
“Up-a ! Up-a !! He seeng how briglit-a
da moon!” The stout peasant clutched
Bill in a fever of excitement. “Up-a, fool
—queek!” he shrilled, fumbling about the
wires in a vain endeavor to raise the
troublesome orb.
Above the crash of cymbal and blare of
brass a bedlam of excited Tuscan was
heard, and Bill dispassionately planted a
straight left on the chin of the
peasant. And how surrounded by a jabber-
ing chaos of alien tongue, he seized the
wires that controlled the raising and lower-
ing of the moon.
“Yer want ’er up?” lie jerked the wire.
“Well, up she goes! Now down she comes!
Up! Down!’’ lie suited the action to the
word. u Down! Up!"
The spectacle of an acrobatic moon
proved too much for the audience, which
let itself go.
The stage-manager rang down the curtain
and joined the infuriated singers, headed by
the basso with drawn sword, who were
advancing on Bill.
Seizing a brace —an iron rod, about four
feet in length, used for clamping heavily-
built scenery to the floor —Bill awaited the
onslaught.
“Gorblime, there’ll be a few white men
sellin’ de steak an’ de oyst’ after this.
Come on!” he yelled:—“if yer lookin’ for
trouble!”
The stage-manager, forcing his way
through the crowd, out of range of the
brace, gesticulated in stammering frenzy.
“Out-a ! Sack-a!. .. .DeeschaUgc—you—
you....porco!”
“Gretino!” shrieked the tenor.
“Cano!” roared the basso.
“So’s yer oV man!" replied Bill.
Holding the brace in a convenient posi-
tion he strolled through the opening made
by the scampering crowd, followed by dire-
ful threats. Reaching the stage-door, Bill
turned and delivered a homely address on
the circumscribed area of vocation—outside
the selling of fish—permitted the Latin races
generally.
RICHARD BELLAIRS.


> * a
4
mm
WESTINGHOUSE (Morse)
Rocker Joint Chain Drives
ft
The Rocker-Joint
by its rolling
action eliminates
rubbing friction;
the pins, being
dead hard, en-
sure long life.
H.,,
. " MU£u>'
Iti-h.p. Drive — - 9 Pitch x 2 iin. wide,
r.p.m 875/360.
The true me-
chanical move-
ments are verified
by THE SILENCE
whilst working.
Attention and
upkeep ARE
NIL.
Your power account will be decidedly reduced by the installation
of one of our drives, and your output greatly increased.
Wheels manufactured at our works and Chain supplied from
local Stocks.
Head Office —
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agrents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N 1. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SST, N.S.W.
erie
Saves sper cent, on
Automobile
Fire Insurance .
Price 55/- each.
Bracket for Motor-car, 5/- extra.
d
FIRE
Weight, 61b. j Height, 14".
WORMALD BROS. LTD.
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY ; 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Special Terms to Storekeepers and Agents. Please write.
m
Sam,;*®as i
gds
No
Saddle is
cheap that is
not comfortable. The
BROOKS
is always cheapest because
in comfort-giving qualities it
excels. of all dealers.
g
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Persona! attention to all consignments. ' Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
%
\
THREE-RIBBED TYRES
sdg
aususm
sds
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
milled on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO.. 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.B.— 70
gsd
g
flow To Keep jUaltby
Almost everybody requires at times a little medicine, that is at once
cleansing and strengthening in its action. Men and women, even of
the healthiest, occasionally need a reliable remedy which will relieve
and correct liver, stomach and bowel derangements and at the same
time, act as a general tonic. For these purposes there lis no family
medicine better than Beeeham’s Pills. So pronounced are the
benefits derived from the use of this famous preparation that many
people have come to regard Beecham’s Pills as indispensable to the
maintenance of health. Carefully compounded from specially
selected ingredients of great medicinal value. Beeeham’s Pills may
be confidently relied upon to correct to relieve strengthen and
restore. Any disorders of digestion or run-down condition of the
system should be treated at once with
Bedlam's pills
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10id (36 pills), 1/1 i (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
EASE
For easy tube screwing in cramped quarters,
for fast and accurately-cut work, use
sdg
OSTER
RATCHET
SCREWING
TACKLE
with the 5 famous Bulldog: features: (1) Self-locking:, adjustable guides,
(2) self-centring guides, (3) no running back over newly-cut threads,
(4) no loose bushings, (5) no small parts. Ask your ironmonger,
machinery, hardware or plumbing-supply maker, or write
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria,
Australasian Representative for
THE OSTER MFG. CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
[l
sdg
If any illustration appearing in Viie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
mam.
\
There are Three Marked
Advantages in the Use
of these Dies.
Dies.
The Dies are opened or closed by a single movement of the lever on the side of
the stock. When a thread has been cut to the required length, the operator
pushes the lever, thus throwing the Dies open, clear of the thread, and the whole
tool is quickly lifted off .the finished work. When free of the work, the reversing
of the lever closes the Dies exactly to size again, ready to cut another thread.
ADVANTAGES:—
(1) The time usually wasted in running back over the finished thread is saved
—about one-third of the total time.
(2.) The marring or stripping of the threads, caused by chips crowding into
the Die teeth in turning back, is avoided.
(3) The life of the Die is almost doubled, as turning back over the thread in the
old way causes much wear of the Dies.
SOLD IN SETS IN HANDSOME WOODEN CASES.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
WE SPECIALISE IN STOCKS AND DIES AND ALL SCREWING TOOLS.
c
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Machinery, Iron and Tool Merchants,
554=66 and 582=88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ESTABLISHED 56 YEARS.


“MANCROviTE ,T
LEATHER
sd
gsd
g
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGROVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to bv users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting-.
Manufactured only by
Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
THE HIGH-WATER MARKIN HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Suitable for L.athe Tools, Reamers, Drills,
Milling Cutters, Planing Tools and
all work where the highest
efficiency and speed
are required.
sdg
lV
ds
in Squares,
and Fiats.
ULTRA CAPITAL”
.LS.
AUSTRALIAN
OFFICES & STORES:
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kaigoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
C. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
J, Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
MAKES ANY BUILDING
FIREPROOF
and reduces insurance cost to the lowest
basis. For interior and exterior walls,
ceilings, partitions, etc.
Hardie’s (British-made)
Fibro - Cement
is being largely used all over the country.
Actually improves with age, does not crack or
chip, costs less to keep in repair.
W|rlTE FOR CATALOG “D”
Also enquire about “Fibro-C” Cold-water
Paint and Hardie’s Oak Cover Battens for use
with the above.
JAMES HARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West. Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide .
WOLFE’S
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
. -
E9
mm
Gang Milking Machines .—=Tai\gye Oil Engines.
The above well-known Combination has a great Reputation in all Dairying
districts and gives genuine satisfaction in each and every ir "ce.
DON’T Experiment with inferior machines—install one of our High-class and Fully
Guaranteed Milking Plants right away. It will solve all your JUabor difllculties.
e
ompany Limited,
iler’s Point,
SYDNEY.
afiltt
mu
2-Cow GANE Releaser Mr'lking Plant, driven by Tangye Oil Engine
AGENCIES:
J. A iinfeTE'y 5 o a,!nß,Sri^^^
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
Efficiency and low cost of upkeep
are two factors which have helped to make the “Wolseley” the most
popular Shearing Machine in the world.
Visitors to the Sydney Easter Show
should make a special point of inspecting the “Wolseley”—when a machine
can be seen in operation.
Australasian Agents: DALGET i COMPANY LTD. All Branches.
gsd
FOR THE PROSPECTOR.
HORSE-POWER HOISTING WHIM
The simplicity, facility for easy transport, and relative cheapness of these little Hoists
commend them to the Miner requiring a small, ellicient. Winding Plant. Designed principally
for Mining purposes, it will raise a bucket with 5u0-7001b. sivty to seventy feet per minute.
The Hoisting Drum is absolutely under the control of the man at the shaft, and can be thrown
in and out of gear, and he can land or lower the bucket on the brake as safely and conveniently
as by a steam-power hoist. An automatic safety device is attached to the end of the drum to
prevent accident, the dog always being in gear when the bucket is being raised*
Drum carries 500 feet or more of % Steel Wire Hope.
Total Shipping weight is 12001b., but no one piece weighs over 2501b.
If you are interested, allow us to send you full descriptive Circular, with Price*.
MAKERS:
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Hr
YOU can Run this Engine
NO BOTHERSOME IGNITION TROUBLES.
You turn on the Kerosene, give the Flywheel a couple of turns the Engine does the rest.
No Expensive Expert Repairs and Adjustments.
HOOE OIL ENGINES
Ideal Power for the Man on the Land, and Most Economical.
Sizes: 2 y 2 h.p., 5 h.p., 8 h.p. hand started (larger sizes with self-starter).
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building:,
350 Georgfe St., Sydney
