

DXSWAR’S —THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. Gr. WATStiaiTS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOE—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
THE REVIEW”
says:—
The Company is very well
managed, and the name is quite
a household word in Sydney. Its
reputation is excellent, and,
although the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a vampire, the
charge cannot be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de Piete D.
and I. Co. Limited.
dsg
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Easy Terms and Lowest Interest.
NSVMONTDE PIETE-D&l'C?!^
BEAD OFHCE74 CASTLEBESGH ST SYDNEY 74.
Next to "Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Genera!
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
The Standard Kemedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tlle Kemedy used by Army and Kavy men.
ghdf
Used since 1596. OUR£ S w »•? to for Tronic
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLING EYELASHES. WEAK SICHL
«• GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
DepSt, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
EST
B
THE
l
m
22
m
m
u
u
mu
m.
7/3
eapp
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S E N’S
Jr,
hsdsdgd
for INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
MALTHOID
“Not the same as others.”
MALTHOID is undoubtedly the finest roofing material so far
discovered, and it has been in use for a sufficient period to
answer all the tests which are required from a first-class roof
covering.
It never leaks, warps, rusts or cracks, and costs less than half
the price of galvanised iron.
Illustrated booklet and samples mailed post free on request.
The Paraffine Paint Co. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
Write to 8 Spring Street, Sydney,
for a free cqpy of “The Referee,” a
booklet containing much useful and
instructive information.
fcaViaJ'' 1 ® 4 %\\® eVs
Supplied to the Naval and
Military Authorities of
Great Britain and Australia.
WHITE HORSE Whisky
kt4vitklml9hi
m
m
REMINGTON U.M.C.
ARMS AND AMMUNITION.
NOYES BROS.
WmM
WtSA&JZMt
(SYDNEY) LTD.
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(Melbourne) pty. ltd.
499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
$0].39.—50. 1995.]
[Thursday, May 1918.
Registered at tne General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


m
&
IS a Hospital Brandy of incomparable purity and medicinal excellence. It is the consistently high
character of CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY which holds it on a pinnacle of widespread
popularity unequalled by any other Brandy in Australia to-day.
Insist on having “CHATEAU TANUNDA,” the Special Hospital Brandy. BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TucKer &. Co., Limited——Sydney Agents.
A. The Lar\'nx oi
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
w
C 3
C. Th c Bronchial
Tubes of. a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
for Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Hoarseness, etc.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.: The
Lancet, The Practitioner, The Medical R E ' IE >
The Medical Press and Circular, Practical Med *
cine (Delhi, India), The Australasian Medical
Gazette.
HUDSON’S EU MENTHOL JUJUBES
Are sold by all Chemists in tins. Price 1/6; or sent post free on receipt of stamps (any
State) by Manufacturers,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
In Memoriam. Billjim
Over 350 epitaphs for Billjim, deceased,
were submitted. This page asked for origi-
nal epitaphs; but many competitors quoted
verses that wqre apt. None, it seems, is"
more fitting than the scriptural verse:
Greater love hath no man than this, that
a man lap down his life for his friends;
and mourners have universally recognised
its appropriateness. Many of the other
quotations, though excellent in sentiment
and expression, are unsuitable for the occa-
sion. Exceptions are: —
From the contagion of the world's slow stain
Thou art secure. (Shelley.)
His life was gentle; and the elements
So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up
And say to all the world, “This was a man.”
( SIIAKSPEARE.)
Yet, with the setting sun,
Come, now and then, at eve,
And think of me as one
For whom thou shouldst not grieve.
(Bryant.)
Many quotations and original verses were
disallowed because of the use of the plural:
the epitaph in a Roll of Honor must be for
in individual Billjim, uot for a mob. It is
a personal grief. For this reason some
excellent In Memoriams, including one by
Mary Gilmore, had to be cast out: —
They are not dead; not even broken;
Only their dust has gone back to the earth;
For they—the essential they!—shall have
re-birth
Whenever a word of them is spoken.
Toasts to the dead are not drunk in a col-
umn of the press; nor is that column a tomb-
stone. “Here rests”.... or “Tread lightly”
.... are not admitted. Nor is the dead
man allowed to speak his own epitaph. All
that is necessary is that some individual
should express his or her personal feelings
at the death of a loved one.
It was to be expected that the Australian
would find humor even in an epitaph. One
correspondent writes that a young Billjim,
prior to his departure overseas, suggested
that if he were killed in action a suitable
inscription to his memory would be: “Our
little bud in heaven.” And there are others:
His face was open and his step was free;
There was biff about, so he went to see.
11. G. R.
He lived and died, a dinkum cove;
And fighting fell witli soul unshrove.
But what of that? Who knew him well,
Will back his chance of dodging Hell.
S. Ellison.
And it was to be expected that in this coun-
try of voluntarism an element of bitterness
would creep into many a sincere epitaph.
These sound sincere :
He was only a youth, but he heard the call,
And played a man’s part in this big world strife.
And it sure was nobler to strike and fall
Than to drag out a coward slacker’s life.
McMac.
He played the game. Is yours the shame?
’Bidgee.
He answered ! His all in khaki draped,
He lay upon the Shrine of Sacrifice
To save the Human Race.
He fell! We mourn ; yet we rejoice
He missed the tragedy of Martin-place!
M. J. Keek.
The fight is o’er: the guerdon’s won:
Allied soil holds an only son.
Australian bred: game, clean and brave,
Thank God he fills no coward’s grave!
J. F. Daly.
In memory of Billjim.
He died on 22nd December, 1917,
As the result of wounds inflicted
By Australia on 21st October, 1916.
O. S. Hall.
A miscellaneous assortment, f.a.q.:—•
He was just a private, it matters not —
When the world’s at war such things must be—
But —killed while landing, fired ne’er a shot!
Gallipoli! Gallipoli! !
Jack Arnott.
In deathless sleep he lies whose soul
Has gone to an immortal goal;
Where, shining in the blue abyss,
His epitaph for ever is
The Starry Cross implanted o’er
The land he fought and perished for.
Edwin A. Connolly.
Clear-eved, from knowing clear, blue skies,
He meets Old Death, and smiling dies.
Christina Creagh.
Whispering gum-trees breathe his name,
Golden wattles speak of him;
Lonely bush and sunlit plain
Bring back to me my cobber Jim.
A. Borig.
He fought.... and died ; and now the world
Seems strangely dark to me:
My heart, my thoughts lie buried in
A land across the sea.
Peter Faux.
He heard the call of duty,
Our beloved ;
Answered : and in life’s young beauty
Passed away.
Merle de Q. Belford.
Record that he untimely died,
His talent’s ripest work unwrought;
But grieve not —for it was for him
The death he wished, the gate he sought.
May Siede.
A man he lived, and like a soldier died:
In life, in death, he never failed a mate:
If you were one, let grief find room for pride;
If you were none, grieve now for grief too late.
Per Castra ad Astra.
‘ So-long, Billjim. The sun went down before we
reached the “Halfway,” but we’ll follow the track
you blazed and win out.— Riverina.
Honored liis name,
Glorious his memory,
He died for Australia.
E. M. B.
Death, no horror, but winged with glory and com-
passion carries her beloved, and ours, through those
sacred and mysterious portals where not even our
love can pass—let our prayers and remembrances
drift like leaves in the wind towards them. Who
knows, but unseen hands shall tenderly gather them
in the silences beyond.— A. Howe.
How did he live? His was a quiet life,
Emptv of glow and of all that’s grand.
How died he, then? Ah, but right smilingly,
Serving his native-land.
Catherine B. MacL.
You went because frank Duty nade
You go, not seeking fame.
Death took away his toll, but left
A priceless thing—your name.
Game from the first, when he fought his fights—and
won them, too,
Telling them o’er in the candle-lights as schoolboys
do.
Game when he shouldered a gun because his faith was
fast.
And Heaven knows, I am sure, he was game to the
last.
Enid Hills.
No mark may show where you are laid ;
Your name from others’ thoughts may fade,
Leaving no regret:
Enough to know that this is true—
That such us live and die like you
God will not forget.
N. Devek.
He lived, and loved this life;
He fought, to do his bit;
He died, and was content.
F. B. King.
But it is from these that the choice must
be made: —
Poor Bill, he hadn’t a chance.
Jack Arnott.
His wide eyes turned to stranger stars above,
His cold cheek blanching in a stranger dew,
Dead for the secret thing his spirit knew—
Faith in the land that bore him and her love.
R. L. Jamieson.
Now in the grave he lies —his life-blood given;
Something divine he had, his clay to leaven ;
Something of God there was—something of Heaven,
Weeroona.
“So-long!” you called, with cheerful smile;
You—stalwart, brown and strong.
Ah! how we hoped it would not be
So long—so long—so long !
Jeanong.
Each of her fallen soldier sons, overseas, is thus
mourned by his national mother—Australia.
Angela Kennedy.
Into thine hands, 0 Lord, the soul unsheathed;
The transient dust to the red fields of France;
His life to freedom’s altar, laurel-wreathed ;
To us* the pride and sorrow of remembrance.
Erle Cox.
But not in vain his blood is shed,
For we, who may his record scan,
Learn how a hero fought and bled,
And died as he had lived—a man!
Norman Campbell.
The foemen trample where your bones are laid,
And so we cannot place upon your grave
The customary tribute of a flower,
But daily on your grave within our hearts
We place a wreath whose flowers are tender thoughts.
H. W. Stewart.
We sometimes sat for hours and smoked in silence—
Our comradeship had little need to crave
From spoken words the comfort that they gave—
Shall comradeship be less now you are gathered
Into the greater silence of the grave?
11. W. Stewart.
Shed not for him the bitter tear,
Nor vex the heart with vain regret;
This but the rusty scabbard here:
The sword it once held glitters yet.
B. J.
Surely a true son of Australia —he died for her..
L. W.
He went at Duty’s call, nor deemed it less than
just that he should fight and die for fair Australia.
H. D.
Good-bye—and thanks !
Uckle.
Face that I’ve kissed and caressed,
Bone of my bone was he,
Fondled and fed at my breast,
Coming not back to me.
G. D.
Gone to his rest—a true Australian,
The finest thing God ever made.
Life blessed him with her choicest gifts,
A clean straight life, a soldier’s death.
Thrice.
He asks no grief, no praise, no poet’s pen,
Naught but his soldier’s grave, and so around
The place wherein he sleeps is holy ground—
Akin with Christ, in that he died for men.-
Pearl Page.
When Honor looked you squarely in the face
You met her eye to eye,
And true unto the birthright of your race,
Showed how the brave can die.
D. J, Lutton.
From the uttermost seas,
When honor called, he went.
Far from the ferny dells he loved,
In France his body lies.
On the moonbeam path across the sea
Hi 3 soul comes home.
Mabel N. Z.
Not then —in Gallipoli—•
When, boy-like matching life for high adventure,
He fell, staining the daisies’ white to red,
And his soul, elate, waiting the whisper of Death,
Touched like a soft wind the buds o'erhead.
But now —his life fulfilled, his latest breath
For honor spent—somewhere in France he lies.
Marjorie N. Z.
The jovous blue and gold of Austral skies
He bartered for a glorious grave in France;
With singing lips and steadfast, dauntless eyes
He died a hero in the Great Romance.
And I am glad and proud as when he left —■
He cannot now of honor be bereft.
Mari Marina.
He counted life as little worth
Save as he spent it for that earth
Dear loved, to which he owed his birth.
M. L. Lane.
“Gone west,” they say. “Gone west.” But no, ah no!
Lad of the brave bright eyes and merry month !
You will come home to where the gum-trees grow:
You were Australian through and through, and so
You will be coming south, lad ! coming south.
Bartlett Adamson.
Here goes!
Mark Lane.
Jt
In making a final choice of the best epitaph
submitted it must be noted that this is but
a personal and temporary preference. The
real judges will be the mourners of Aus-
tralia : the best epitaph will be the one chosen
most frequently and paid for for insertion in
the Roll of Honor columns of the press. But
with that final judgment this page has noth-
ing to do. The considerations affecting this
page’s choice are these: An epitaph upon
Billjim should have beauty and dignity of
thought and utterance; it should give evi-
dence of personal feeling—grief, gratitude,
pride, love, etc.; it should be capable of
being utilised by every mourner, and it
should be applicable only to the death of a
soldier fighting for our country.
G.D.'s sob of grief is only for mothers;
and 11. \V. Stewart's We sometimes sat for
hours and smoked in silence. . . .only for
cobbers. There is a literary element in the
epitaphs of Bartlett Adamson, Jeanong and
“8.. T.”: they are too clever. Here goes!
is admirably expressive, but it was Billjim
who made that characteristic remark, not
the person who mourns him. Good-bye—
and thanks! is characteristic, too; but lacks
dignity. Poor Bill — he hadn't, a chance! is
a universal Australian thought; but this
page will be surprised if many mourners
choose it.
Choice hesitates between the epitaphs sub-
mitted by R. L. Jamieson, Weeroona, Erie
Cox, 11. W. Stewart ( The foemen trample
....), L.W., Mari Marina and M. L. Lane
(He counted life as little worth....). The
award goes to Erie Cox, 9 Gisborne-street,
Elsternwick, Vic., for:
Into thine hands, O Lord, the soul un-
sheathed;
The transient dust to the red fields of
France,
His life to freedom's altar, laurel-wreathed;
To us, the iiride and sorrow of remembrance.
But R. L. Jamieson, 11. W. Stewart and
Mari Marina deserve the prize almost as
well.
Pacifist Fiction
A curious aspect of recent English fiction
is its pacifist sympathies. May Sinclair, in
The Tree of Heaven, throws all her limelight
upon the eldest son, who refuses to enlist.
He is her hero, and though on the death
of his younger brother he dons khaki, this
conclusion seems rather a concession to
public opinion than a logical outcome of the
plot. Now Douglas Goldring, in The For-
tune (Maunsel, per Dymock’s Library)
makes his strongest character a conscien-
tious objector and an Irishman. Goldring, in
a prefatory note, remarks that: “No doubt,
the book will be dubbed by many elderly
people as a mere pacifist tract masquerading
under a thin disguise of fiction....l have
tried to give a straightforward account of
the spiritual adventures of an average ‘in-
tellectual’ in the first years of the war.”
But he claims that his hero’s tragedy is
shared by many thousands of old public-
school boys.
This is the story of an engaging youth
whose only weakness is his need of depend-
ence upon a stronger character. All through
his life he looks for guidance to his
friend, James Murdoch; and to James he
owes all his success. The pictures of public-
school life and of Oxford are admirably
done; and for Australian readers there is
always an interest in well-written accounts
of those typical English institutions, so
strange to us. The hero has the astounding
fortune, so common in fiction, so rare in
real life, of getting his first play accepted
and produced. Also, it is a success. But
Goldring makes this miracle a little more
feasible by attributing it to James’s expert
revision of the manuscript and the personal
friendship existing between the remarkable
James and a leading London manager.
The outbreak of the war occurs in the
middle of the book; and Goldring states his
case for the pacifists in every succeeding
chapter. He rightly holds up to our ridicule
characters like Gwen : “The desire to smile
bravely—with just a hint of tears sup-
pressed—was now become a habit with her.
She went about all over London, ‘smiling
bravely,’ and all her friends said, ‘lsn’t she
splendid!' just before the door shut. She
Was so busy being splendid that she could
think of nothing else except how terribly
wicked were the people who were not splen-
did. These were the men who did not imme-
diately enlist: the women who still danced
instead of doing war-work; the girls who
bought new clothes; finally—and worst of
all —the people who dared to hold unconven-
tional views about the war.”
The weak but charming hero enlists, thus
for the first time in his life opposing
James’s advice. James, the conscientious
objector, is pained, but suffers in silence.
The hero’s experiences at the Front are not
put in a rosy light: “The ennui induced by
the nervous strain of mastering one’s emo-
tions during moments of intense and deadly
fear was always waiting to overwhelm one.
.... Horrible things happened. Sometimes a
man's nerves would suddenly give way....
Harold came across a number of men who
were ‘queer’; who would never be the same
again, men whom he had known and loved
for their humor, their quick intelligence and
charming ways. These were now morose
wrecks with voices sunk to a whisper, who
at any moment might suddenly begin to do
‘something odd.’ and who watched them-
selves with pitiful intentness for the moment
which they could not control.” But worse,
in the novelist’s view, was the change in
Harold. He grew a moustache, and got red
and beefy and acquired military slang: his
wife didn’t like it at all. Distressing, of
course, but he was fighting for his country.
Jt
More interesting is the author’s portrait
of the English professional military caste.
“They all had much the same appearance—
little, close-cropped moustaches, puckers
round the eyes, which were clear, clean and
simple ; fine hands and feet. Their clothes,
when they were in mufti, were not too smart
or too new, but perfectly cut, and their
manners were perhaps the best which the
human race at the present day has been
able to produce. No wonder they were
popular favorites, no wonder everyone re-
garded them as the ideal type of English-
man. But that was just where tin- trouble
came in.... The whole English public-school
system for generations had bent itself to
the task of producing and propagating this
type ; every popular newspaper wallowed in
adulation of it day after day, till at last
the national cult of the ‘gentleman’ had
reached its final expression in the present
war. .. .The conduct of the war had been
handed over to gentlemen. One defect of
the very best of the old military caste was an
inability to see that excellence could exist
in any' other type than their own The
Colonel would only be able to appreciate
Harold in so far as he conformed to the
regulations of the military type. . ..‘The
finest type’ -was not quite so unassailable as
the Englishman supposed him to be. Per-
haps that would be one of the lessons which
the war would teach.... At least they were
born leaders; even if owing to a certain
mental imperviousness they frequently led
in the wrong direction... .The Colonel be-
longed to the sword and cloak age, or to
the period of the Indian Mutiny. But the
Bosches opposite,; with their damnable effici-
ency and full-bloodedness; the French with
their mental orderliness and precision—
these had the indefinable something of mod-
ernity about them. They were realists, not
romantics; or, perhaps, rather, theirs was
the new romance.... Here was a great em-
pire hypnotised by its slavish adulation of
one decayed type.” Goldring is wrong
there; there is at least one Dominion that
is not hypnotised by that pathetic survival.
Billjim knows.
Meantime the conscientious objector is
brought before the tribunal and examined.
An extremely interesting picture of the work-
ing of these 'tribunals is given by the author,
who is quite indignant that in a conscnp-
tionist country such tribunals should exist,
and whose sympathy is entirely for the
shirker. The pacifist’s exemption from
service is refused; but he needn’t have
appealed at all, as he is an Irishman. He
goes back to Ireland, and so escapes. Gold-
ring does not point out the meanness of his
idol in evading the issue: he would not have
forfeited the reader’s sympathy if he had
gone to gaol for his opinions. Well,. Harold
is killed, but not in France. He is mur-
dered in the Dublin rebellion by a panicky
soldier. And his pacifist hero survives,
and tells the widow that the saddest thing
about Harold’s death lay in the. fact “that
not only was he on the wrong side but he
knew it.” That glib "comment from the
friend who never risked his own life appro-
priately closes a clever but unconvincing
pacifist appeal.
«
Two belated suggestions for a substitute
for Australasia are ingenious, but, m this
page’s opinion, not so apt as Amalia. It.A.M.
proposes Auzealia. “It allows the Australian
his ‘oss’ (aus) and doesn’t deprive the New
Zealander of his ‘zeal.’ ” Sam A. Browne
wants Austoria, the first part of Aust-raha
and the last part of Ma-ori. However.
Amalia seems to have met with general
approval.
The result of the £5O Photo-play Com-
petition will probably be announced in this
page next week.


A
'uae
The Home
conomy
! Maids* Smart (
Winter Frocks
THE Selection of Maids’ Autumn and Winter Apparel at the
New Palace Emporium affords Mothers an unequalled
opportunity of dressing their daughters fashionably, yet'
economically. The Portfolio of Winter Fashion will be posted
free on request.
' V.
SB*
O
\ C 9
■-
FX3I
§FX 32
FX 44'
FX34-
FX3S
No. Fx 31. College Coat Robe, in fine Coating Serge, Navy and Black, loose
flared, panel front, high-belted—
Size 48in., 79/6; 45in„ 79/6; 42in., 77/6; 39in., 75/6
No. Fx 32. Coat Robe, in fine Coating Serge, Navy and Black, flared and high-
belted, panel front, deep cape collar —
Size 48in., 87/6; 45in., 87/6; 42in., 85/6; 39in., 85/6
No. Fx 44.—Coat and Skirt, in Fawn Gabardine, flared sac, belted, shoulder
cape, collar, three-piece flared Skirt 90/-
Similar style in Navy Striped Cheviot 59/6
Also in Donegal Tweed 52 / 6
No. Fx 34. — Coat and Skirt, in fine Coating Na%'y Serge, loose fitting sac coat,
pleats at side, deep-pointed collar, three-piece flared Skirt —
Size 8, 95/-; size 7, 92/6
No. Fx 35. — Coat and Skirt, in fine-quality Gabardine, Fawn, Navy and Black ;
I Coat is cut in the new Empire style, forming deep pleats, side front and centre /
I back, deep collar,' three-piece flared Skirt Size 8, 99/6; size 7, 97/6 i
Similar style in fine Serge 87/6 \
I Perfedl-fitting'
Winter Skirts
THE skirts illustrated are but a selection of the unrivalled
assortment of the new season’s styles at the Hew Palace
Emporium, where Fashion and Economy always combine.
The materials, make and finish mark these skirts as satisfaction-
givers.
m
r
2032
212
5537
No. 2032.—Fine-quality Gabardine Skirt, pleated front, eased back, shaped
front belt and two narrow straps at back, finished buttons; Fawn, Bronze or
Navy 45/-
No. 5557. Smart Skirt, In Striped Tweed, gathered back, satchel pockets, belt
and buttons, Dark Grey 21/6
Also in outsize 37/6
No. 212. Neatly-CUt Skirt, in fine Coating Serge, pleated at sides with Braid
trimmings (as illustration), or without; Navy or Black 49/6
Also in out-size 58/6
-v:
»
~s>
4
ao
&Z 79
55Z2
5536
No. H 279. Riding Skirt, effective style in Fawn Gabardine, inverted pleat at
back, hip pockets, finished tabs and buttons iii fi’ont 29/6
Similar style in Black or Navy Serge 37/6
No. 5521.—Smart Skirt, in fine Serge, panel front, eased back, belt and pockets,
Navy or Black 23/6
No. 5536. —Fashionable Skirt, in Fawn Gabardine, eased back, pleated sides,
finished straps and buttons, Light or Dark Fawn shades, women’s 63/-
Also in out-sizes 70/-
pri SNOS NH3QHOH
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


They go Together: Beauty and Rexona.
ARE YOU A REXONA GIRL?
4
m
■
sdg
HAT natural beauty of skin and hair which
cannot be imitated can be obtained by regu-
lar use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap.
Ordinary Toilet Soaps do not assert this
influence. Many of them contain free
alkali, which tends to dry the skin and destroy its
delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only
cleanse: they cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona
Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic
balsams as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which
in the treatment of skin affections is known throughout
the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not
quickly soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency
to pimples, and leave the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety. Rexona Soap, price 1/- per tablet.
ft
;■ -
r-
If
Miss MABEL BATCHELOR (from a photo).
Miss Mabel Batchelor, who toured through Aus-
tralasia with the J. C. Williamson Comic Opera
Ltd. and the Lemmone Concert Companies, is the
popular professional lead for the Mosman,
Petersham, Railway and Tramway, Eastern Sub-
urbs, and many other N.S.W. and Inter-State
Musical Societies. Miss Batchelor writes us as
follows: —
“Dear Sirs, —
“I am writing to make a strange request—
it is that you will enrol me as one of your
Rexona girls. At our home we are devotees
of Rexona Soap and salve. I have all sorts
of soaps and perfumes sent me, because, I sup-
pose, of my constant public appearances, but
I love Rexona and use it only. Wishing
Rexona Soap and Rexona Balm continued suc-
cess,
“I am, yours sincerely,
“ (Sgd.) MABEL BATCHELOR”
Rexona —the Aristocrat of Soaps.
refreshing soothing
MEALING ANTISEPTIC SOAP
medicated on the SAME PH'NCIPLE
STHE FAMOUS REXONA OINTMENT^
Mm MADGE ELLIOTT ( from, a Tesla Studios photo).
Miss Madge Elliott is one of the most charming
artists of the J. C. Williamson Co. Ltd., and has
rapidly come tc the front as a clever and artistic
solo dancer. To see Miss Elliott is to love her.
She wrote us the following letter: —
“Dear Sirs, —
“Add me to your Rexona Club, please. If
anyone deserves election I do, for I use
nothing but Rexona Soap for my bath, my
complexion and my hair. If I knock myself
in hurrying on or off the stage, or get a little
stiff, I use Rexona. It is worth its weight in
gold in one’s medicine chest. Please notify
me when elected.
“I am,
“Yours sincerely,
“(Sgd.) MADGE ELLIOTT.’*
m o.
(k
Minn DAISY REVETTE (from a photo)
MORE CHARMING
REXONA GIRLS.
Miss Daisy Revette is a real de-
light. Australians love her. She
is the favorite light comedienne of
the J. & N. Tait Musical Comedy
Company, and is a versatile
actress. She came direct from Chas.
Frohman, New York, to Australia,
and joins the Rexona Club with
the following letter :
"Dear Sirs, —
“I anx a firm member of the
Rexona Club. Your Rexona
Soap and Ointment are toilet
requisites in ten thousand, and
I never want to look beyond
them. The soap is always in
my dressing-room, and I never
use any other. The ointment
gives the hands a velvet-like
softness, and is invaluable for
cuts or bruises.”
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) DAISY REVETTE.”
Miss MAISIE POLLARD, whose charm-
ing singing was a feature of the “Bunyip”
Pantomime, is a great favorite with Aus-
tralian audiences. Miss Pollard loves
Australia, and hastens to praise a good
Australian article. She writes: —
“A friend of mine uses your
Rexona for her little baby, the only
son. Watching her bathing him, and
knowing how particular she is about
everything she uses for him, I asked
her the name of the soap. That was
three years ago. Since that date I
have also become a Rexona devotee.
It is a perfect Skin Soap. It is as
fine for children as for the hair and
complexion of grown-ups. Rexona
Ointment is equally good—it will
heal anything.
“Wishing Rexona the success it
deserves. Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) MAISIE POLLARD.”
A:
l
l .l li
im
.1
i
Hiss MAISIE POLLARD (from a photo)
REXONA
EVERYONE’S FAVORITE.
All the worl<? over everyone likes the Rexona Remedies. They are universal favorites, and never disappoint you. Rexona is the Rapid Healer
and Rexona Soap is the facial soap of the century. Care for yourself by using Rexona and Rexona Soap, and your skin will reflect the improve-
ment from the first, and you will delight yourself as well as your friends.
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, has always been famous for its wonderful healing powers. Many people now
thank Rexona for skin health and comfort. It is a reliable remedy for Bad Legs, Cuts, Burns, and all
irritations and eruptions of the skin. Ho home can afford to be without Rexona, so take a tin home to-night.
Price 1/6 and 3/-
0
o
o
THE RAPID


m
I
; .
Hat by Mirette,
104, Ward our Street, I
London, W.
Photo: Miss Gina Paler me, j
by Wrather & Buys.
A WELL - KNOWN
West-end Milliner
writes : “If only ladies
knew, as I do, the world
of difference in durability,
they would never accept
any of the inferior imita-
tions or substitutes offered
in place of the genuine
Dynamo Rainproof
Tulle.”
If you really want
Tulle that moisture can-
not mar, that rain cannot
ruin, the only way to be
sure you get what you
want is to see that the
Tulle is cut from a card
bearing * the Dynamo
name and trade mark.
Dynamo Tulle is not only positively
rainproof. It is also sunproof. It is
colour-fast. It is fadeless.
Dynamo
Tulle Scarves
For Scarves, Dynamo is the one Tulle
which gives you that sheer, crisp,
fresh-looking effect and adds tliat
distinctive touch of smartness to a
hat or scarf which ladies so much
admire. It is wonderfully durable
—it can be worn over and over
again.
Ask for Dynamo Rainproof Tulle
—and see that you get it. Every
shop can supply.
a in'
RAINPROOF
Tulle
The best Milliners always u«e “ Dynamo
Rainproof Tulle. The best Stores sell it by
the vard. Ask for it by name and decline
to be put off with sO-called “ justas-good ”
kinds, which only cause annoyance and extra
expense.
36 ins. wide. In black and white and all
fashionable shades.
Sold at all Prices.
If any difficulty in obtaining send P.O.
stating: quantity, colour, and price per yard
to “Dynamo” Enquiry Dept.,
Lari ton House, York Street,
Sydney.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from
S. Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/ & 2/6.
If! OR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
wmmmmm
, ■ idS:? -IP . i
m
L hi &
m
fcU
rwm :
>:'A
7\
m
M
«
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
Sleep-Meter
This is Sleep-Meter
—another member of
the Westclox family—
right from the home
of Big Ben.
You’ll like Sleep-
Meter’s looks—you’ll like
his price—you’ll like him
as a time-keeper and as
an honest, on-the-minute
alarm.
Sleep-Meter will hold the re-
spect of your household because,
like Big Ben, this clock is made
to serve you faithfully. Sleep-
Meter is built in the patented
Westclox way the better
method of clock making.
Needle-fine pivots of polished steel
greatly reduce friction. This construc-
tion makes Westclox success clocks
and wins them many friends.
Sleep-Meter is five inches high; has
a clear, readable dial; a cheery-toned
back-hell which will call you on the dot.
There’s a big measure of value in this
sturdy clock designed to measure time
and sleep. Sleep-Meter is 10/6 at your
clock dealers.
Western Clock Co. —makers of Westclox
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
Big Ben JSI-, Baby Ben 151-, America 716, Sleep-Meter 1016, Boyproof Watch 716,
1
n
Right Makes Might
RIGHT ideals of building, the rule
which puts quality first; here is the
might that has built Firestone fame.
Right design, right materials, right work-
manship, right service; this has been
the Firestone standard for 16 years. It
is the secret of a success without rival in
sales-increase and industrial prestige.
Ride on Firestone Tyres for luxurious
comfort, insurance against delay or acci-
dent and the economy of Most Miles per
Shilling. Let your nearest dealer serve you.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
W ales.
Alexander Mair & Go., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing- Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatriek & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages
___ Write for Illustrated Literature
TYRES
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Woman.
I am not very patient;
Yet patient I must be
With him beside my pillow,
And the babe upon my knee.
I am not very patient;
I would have wings to fly;
Yet am I tied to cradles
Until the day I die.
One is a rocking cradle
(Sleep, babe, without alarms!)
But for the Other Baby
The cradle of my arms.
Strange that I was given
Thoughts that soar to Heaven,
Yet must I sit and keep
Children in their sleep!
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
Desire.
When the first dawn’s gold was falling
On the plumed and nodding sea,
From the shallows your voice w r as calling
With a measureless witchery.
You were ancient when earth, new-moulded,
Came superb from the shaping fire.
When the first young leaves unfolded
They turned to your altar, Desire.
From the flaming heights to the hollow,
From the high green land to the low,
When you call there is but to follow,
When you beckon all men must go;
Though they know that the sea’s blue stream-
ing
Is the mask of your cavern floor,
Where the bones of your dead lie gleaming
Afar from the sun-sweetened shore;
Though they know that you lie, they believe
you,
Though you poison their chalice of joy.
Though you vanish when mortals achieve
you,
Though the flames that you kindle destroy.
Yet your throne is the heart of the living;
You are sister, Desire, to the sun,
For Life is the gift of your giving,
Destroyer and Mother in one!
N.S.W.
P. E. QUINN.
Home of My Heart.
I pray, bent over my baby’s bed,
For one far off in the fight:
Heart of my heart, I am crying for you—
Heart of my heart, good-night.
And a whisper comes as the dawn grows grey,
And I dare not look at the light—
“ Heart of my heart, I am dying for y0u....
Home of my heart. . . .good-night.”
victoria.
ONE HUNDRED AND THREE.
A Journey Song.
Death puts a term to all our pains and
laughter,
And we fare forth into the enshrouding dark
That shuts us round through all the long
night after,
The night interminable that no spark
Of human prescience yet has pierced, nor
can,
The night that mocks the soaring dreams of
man.
We pass beyond the unceasing strain of
living,
The stress of fleeting joys and haunting
pains,
And so to full forgetfulness, forgiving,
Of what so made and marred us. There
remains
Dear sleep unbroken,'sleep of pure delight,
Inviolable silence and the night.
Life draws us subtly by a bait of pleasure,
A lure of lying kisses, to the grave,
Till Age brings in Despair to wreck at
leisure
Those last illusions that we fain would save,
Bruised fruits and sodden, mildewed at the
core,
That Time’s old treacherous ocean casts
ashore.
What matters it? Shall Death’s stale frip-
peries move us
To any fear, save that he come too late?
Life’s shams and shows are waiting still to
prove us,
And Love’s false witcheries croon at every
gate—
Poor woman-things who spice our tainted
blisses
With acrid savour of their hot fond kisses.
It may be He that formed and flawed us
knows
How best to spur the iaded appetites
That turned from delicate joys to feast on
those
That sting our barren days and feverish
nights.
Ah, Woman, till death find us (late or
quicker),
Queen of the Earth and Hell’s astutest
vicar!
Dear Woman, while dark fingers twist and
shove you
To work us woe, we know you, and we love
you!
We’ve still a little while for toys and
laughter.
To-night your lips! A fig for the night
after!
N.S.W.
SELWYN RIDER.


the: perdriau sign
is displayed by up-to-date garages throughout the Commonwealth.
are built to give the kind of hard service that our roads demand.
The Perdriau Super-tread is the crowning triumph of the Australian Tyre.
Its mileage results prove its right to first place as an Australian road
performer.
Obtainable through your local garage or from the manufacturers :
erdriau Rubber
&
G
O
*2
George Street, Sydney .
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gaw/er Place, Adelaide.
Flinders Street, Melbourne .
Keep the Home Tyres Turning.
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all BankS) Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Cert
ficate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ » £5O
£B7 lO O „ „ £lOO
£875 0 O „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Dufy, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6“ War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank op Australia. October, 1917
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth JBanh of Hustralla
AT 31st DECEMBER, ,1917
LIABILITIES.
£ 0 d
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Debate 30,773,195 0 9
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 1,716,904 6 7
Savings Bank Department—
Depositors’
Balances £13,575,234 3 1
With Interest
accrued.. £173.039 8 8
Capital—Debentures Issued
Deserve Fund .. ..
Redemption Fund .. ..
13,748,273 11 9
379,475 11 2
379,475 11 2
46,997,324 0 5
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits per Contra 195,810 7 0
£47,193,134 7 5
ASSETS.
£ s
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 5,820,349 1
Australian Notes 5,264,325 10
Money at Short Call in London 14,786,000 0
Investments —
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities (face value
£7,798,486 Is. lOd.) .. 7,677,895 13
Commonwealth Gov’ment Se-
curities (face value, £5,309,935) 5,248,146 8
Fixed Deposits of other Banks 1,089,000 0
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittancesin Transit .. 1,072,760 1
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers and
other sums due to the Bank .. 5,699,056 14
Bank Premises .. .. >■ 340,790 10
46,997,324 0
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra .. .. .. 195,810 7
£47,193,134 7
d
10
0
0
7
3
0
10
2
9
5
0
5
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Reserve Fund ..
„ Redemption Fund
£ s d
116,329 10 9
116,329 10 9
£232,659 1 6
By Profits for Half-year ended
31st December, 1917
£ s d
232,659 1 6
RESERVE FUND.
i,r.
£ s d
To Balance .. .. •• 379,475 IX 2
£379,475 11 2
By Balance..
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one half of the
Net Profits
£ - d
263,140 0 5
116,329 1. 9
£379,475 11 2
REDEMPTION FUND.
Cr.
Dr.
£ s d
To Balance ... » •• •• 3/9,475 11 2
£07:3 175 11 2
£ s d
Gold Coin held for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
Th e Sank also holds in Gold Coin for the Treasurer of the Common wealth
£9,1T9 0(54 0 0
-jVe certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
H. T: ARMITAGE,
D. B. MURDOCH,
DENISON MILLER,
Governor.
Sydney, 2nd April, 1918.
AUDITOR-GENERAL’S REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 20 of the Commonwealth Bank Act, 1911, I
no.ro f-n ronort that the Aggregate Balance Sheet of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the
have to report that uie = examined by officers under my direction, as well
ha »2 TheB?vera“ltemB of’the account, as above set forth, have been verified with the
books and vouchers, with the Securities held by the Bank, and with Statements certified by the
respective Managers and Accountants of the Bank. ,
P T have obtained all the information and explanations required by me. The said Balance Sheet
has been prepared in the form prescribed by the Regulations under the Act, and, in my opinion, it
exhibits Qf £9]17 9 )0C 4 above gefc for)h was held by the Bank in Gold
G ° ini ° f thS Gomm ° nWea j h w . ISRAEL, Auditor-General for the Commonwealth.
Marine Engines
A I LLS
For All Boats
Caille 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Startedi
Electric Lights
CalUe 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
ReversingGearonSame Basa as Engine
Callle Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clainps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 la 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete Hue of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- t o four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type o f
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock; also
Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers
Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY
71-75 Queen's Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE.
DodgeErothers
KOTOR CAR
DEMAND CONTINUALLY INCREASING.
abounding satisfaction to buyers.
Every increase in production is comfortably absorbed
in an increased market.
The works in which the car is produced have grown till
they are almost a city in themselves.
Deep and abounding satisfaction surrounds the sale and
the use of practically every car that leaves the works.
A more remarkable recognition of merit on the part of
the public it would be difficult to conceive.
dsg
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
-Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VoL, 39,-No. 1995.
THURSDAY, MAY 9, 1918.
Pbice 6d.
FOR DESERTING HIS MATE.
JUSTICE: “You sent this woman’s son, who was your mate, and 200,000 others, most of them your friends, to the war, and then you said the war was no
affair of yours, and you failed to send them reinforcements, with the result that many of them were killed. You stand charged, therefore, with desertion
of your mates in the face of the enemy. Speak, man—have you anything to say in your defence?”


FHGHF
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White 3Ian.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, 'Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at. the Offii e of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
Terms to subscribers.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. (id. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every iveek for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any admress abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., -which should be crossed, and
all Business Communicant ion s to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stampod letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of thin paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return nil unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotnh, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central Nenvs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/Ijl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley , News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City Nerve Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, ~6S Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.. —Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Hovng, Cairo, Egypt.
ITong Iyong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id,; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 16oz.,
Icl. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; 8ioz. to 10oz., Sid.:
iOoz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
'BuHeZzai.
THURSDAY, MAY -9, 1918.
WANDERING IN THE WILDERNESS.
Atjstbaltan Labor is allowing itself to be
made a fool of. Dexterous wire-pullers on
the other side are manoeuvring it into a posi-
tion where, no matter what the end of the
war may be, the party will be decorated
with a very unpleasant odium. Within it
influential coteries are at work manipulating
the machinery on lines suggestive of com-
promise between cunning and crankiness.
Why it should please Labor to contemplate
itself being dragged by the nose is a mystery;
equally is it a mystery why the organisation
having by far the greatest latent political
and. civic power in the Commonwealth should
be uncertain of where it is and what it
wants in relation to a matter of overwhelm-
ing importance to the nation. Perhaps Labor
is not lf so the sooner it changes
the tactics of sullen equivocation for those of
reasonable candor the sooner will it have
cause for satisfaction. There may be people
who understand what its war policy is. If
there are their method of explaining it is
horribly unfortunate. But this paper pre-
fers to "believe that there are none —that the
party as a political body has become demor-
alised by words and conflicting ideas, and is
gro.ping'about in the dark afraid to say what
it means and meaning something different
from what it says. At any rate, there is
not in all Australia a single man who will
come upon a public platform and define his
own and Labor’s attitude towards the Com-
monwealth war effort in plain terms. All
Hie. men who can claim to speak on behalf
of organised Labor are either sitting on a
rail or struggling to explain their explana-
tions or trying to make bargains or find the
line of least; resistance for the next 48
hours or qualifying as “Yes-No” specialists.
Yet the issues at stake involve the very
existence of everyone of them as free citi-
zens and of the country they call their home-
!iind - , '
It is no good trying to make out that taking
up a negative attitude towards Conscription
j s a war policy. That is a mere negation,
ending where it begins and leaving nothing
but a biank. Nor is it any use for Laborites
to pose as martyrs and imagine that there is
nothing else to do but criticise the Ministry
and groan about the horrors of war and
extol the beauties of peace. Where does
that lead to? Nowhere but into the wilder-
ness of futility. Let it be assumed as true
that the present Federal Government is
grossly incompetent for the job entrusted to
it. And for the sake of argument let it be
admitted that this Government deserves all
the hard things Labor has to say on the sub-
ject of its failure; let it be admitted, too,
that war is a monstrous institution from
which the world suffers inexpressible misery.
What then? The inescapable facts are that
war is raging almost at our door and that
this Government is the instrument through
which the country must work for the time
being. The war will not stop to allow the
people of Australia to make their system of
government better than it is. It is a war
that must be either won or lost now, for the
trial is not of what might be done under
different conditions but of what can be done
while the struggle goes on. There afe many
ways by which it can be lost. There is only
one way by which it will be won, no matter
on which side victory may rest at the finish,
and that is by bringing to bear upon the
ghastly task the fullest measure of purpose
and all the strength of soul there is in the
nation. Australia can derive no hope that
the Allies will benefit from hearing harsh
words used about someone named Hughes.
It makes resistance to the enemy no
stronger to know that the Labor party has
passed a comprehensive resolution about
what th(> peace should be like, or that there
is nothing in the Labor platform to prevent
a member of the party supporting enlist-
ment, or that one day the party is announced
to be in favor of an immediate cessation of
battle and on the next is said by Senator
Gardiner to be “in the fight to the finish.”
Criticism of the Ministry is all right in a
way. The Ministry richly deserves nearly
everything that has been said about it.
Horror of Hughes has sound justification.
The damage that individual has done to
the Commonwealth is almost beyond compu-
tation. But he is off the premises now, and
in any case there is no sense in assisting
him to do more harm by sulking in holes
and corners, and by mere inactivity and
camouflage doing that which the enemy
would sooner have us do than anything else.
Labor when in office during the first
couple of years of war sent thousands of
men away to the Front and took credit for
it It is too late now for it to start hedging
about the war without making itself look
worse than contemptible. Those men went
away to fight for a cause which Labor urged
them to defend, and that cause is in terrible
jeopardy. If the people who are left behind
owe a moral obligation to anything or any-
body, it is to support those whom they in-
duced to tackle the job. It is not a question
of supporting Governments but of standing
by our own blood—the blood we pushed to
the Front —and of supporting this Australia
of ours lest another hand drag it from our
feeble grasp. Had the Australian people
been mad enough to put a Ministry com-
posed of vipers in office, it would still be
their duty to help, so long as they were able,
to drag down the monster struggling to
break out of Europe in search of his prey.
What the public wants to know is how
Labor proposes to defend Australia —whether
it is going to be content to pass resolutions
and talk about defending something else, or
will it come out into the open and,
in proving the efficacy of voluntaryism,
justify its creed and its patriotism? The
mass of the people have no other wish than
to see the German held up. The Australian
soldier is almost without exception a work-
ing man. A great part of him is unionist,
and it is to hold the German up that he is
over yonder. But here there are influences
at work among unionists which are para-
lysing the men to whom Australia looks for
assistance in the defence of the nation and
incidentally of voluntaryism, which is
Labor’s own policy for the moment. If for
no other reason, then for that alone. Austra-
lian unionism should he the most powerful
factor in recruiting reinforcements. It is
to-day inert. Some of it is hostile. And all of
this plays in the political sense right into
the hands of its enemies and in the national
sense is equivalent to giving the Australian
army—to a very great extent its own army—
a stab in the back.
WE SHALL WIN.
The down _ tail) can ’ t -be-helped attitude of a
peop ie j n Australia during this Ger-
-r °rr. is , not ‘™ ; bu i
most depiessmg and disquieting-thing o
all is the persistent attempt to explain away
and excuse every defeat and set-back. To record
a German victory such as that represented
b Huns’ recent advance on the Somme
J
then assure the public that it was ita y
a German defeat goes a long way to take
the heart out of the patient person who has
hoped for the best, but who, not being an
absolute idiot, cannot be persuaded that
buttle triumphs are really won by retreating
and leaving guns and armies of prisoners
behind you. Had an honest method of
reporting land operations been adopted at
the start the public would now be capable
of a greater enthusiasm; and enthusiasm is
a weapon that counts for a great deal in
prolonged warfare. At the same time,
although the hammering and the continued
mauling is evident even to the right-thinker,
who would accept every excuse and explana-
tion of each successive “strategic retreat” if
it had anything like an appearance of truth,
there is still no need to throw down our
hands in helplessness. Despite the deep
wounds made in the Allies’ lines at the
Somme and in Flanders, there must be some
real sinking of the Teuton’s heart when he
comes to consider possibilities. The argu-
ment of, the pessimist is largely that the
enemy has retained his punch after years
of fighting, and that, even if we renew our
offensive with America’s aid, it will take
ages to push him back to any point at which
he can be mortally wounded. The plain
answer is that he is being mortally wounded
now by being shut up within his own bor-
ders, and that if Britain and France can
hold on long enough, even suffering defeats
like those of recent weeks, the German will
be forced to make terms. As to that holdmg-
on power, it is notable that in past wars
Germanv did, as a rule, collapse pretty sud-
denly and completely when the foe pushed
too hard, while England and France required
to be trodden on with a road-roller before
they would consider the possibility of being
really licked. As things now stand, Germany
has got about as good as she has given. The
stepping of all her trade, the taking of all
her colonies and the steady killing of German
soldiers on all fronts makes a fair balance
against the doubtful gains of European
territory and the success of the submarine.
The mere fact that by throwing huge Ger-
man armies into the- shambles the Allied
forces in France can still be pushed back a
few miles is no conclusive evidence that we
are not going to win and win right out.
* * * ‘ *
But. on the analogy of old wars, victory
is still some distance away* We are still
going through the stages which in struggles
such as those against Napoleon broke men’s
hearts with waiting. The force is ours to
use, the will to triumph is ours, the great
national sacrifices have been made, but we
are still waiting for the man and the way.
The outstanding feature of the terrific tumult
is its flatness. Both sides have steadily used
battering-ram tactics; but only once or twice
has there been a flash of war genius. The
tanks’ advance on Canjbrai without artillery
preparation was just such a stroke as might
have turned a whole campaign; but. unfor-
tunately, its big success was not anticipated
by the high command, and what might have
been a crowning success was turned into a
semi-failure. In the same way, Churchill’s
idea of a simultaneous land and sea attack
on the Dardanelles was altogether good and
must, if executed, have gained, us Constan-
tinople; but the work was muddled, the war-
ships signaled our intention to the enemy
and Australia lost much of her best blood in
trying to repair the damage. Still there
remain just as many ideas to be tried on
the battlefield as there are physical features
of the Flemish landscape. The enemy, with
long years of closest preparation, has shown
comparatively little initiative. Initiative
was never the German’s strong point; and
it seems at least reasonable to hope that in
the coming weeks or months somebody on
our side will think of something. Com-
paring the races engaged in the light of their
past achievements, there is little doubt that
the hanging-on power of the Allies is greater
and that their chances of producing a man
and an idea are distinctly better than
those of the enemy. Add to this the fact
that the resources of the Allies are more
abundant and that with America coming in
their man-power will be enormously in-
creased. and it seems not merely reasonable
to think that we have a good chance of
winning, but almost traitorous to imagine
that we can be licked. If we are licked it
will be because we lack staying power or
winning ideas; and in that event we shall
probably deserve what is coming to us.
But to win the war in a way that is worth
while we ought to get down to business.
The new armies are inspired with the spirit
of those little old armies which so often
plucked victory from despair. But war is
not now fought by armies alone; it is waged
by nations. The nation must be behind the
army. For this reason it is necessary that a
live interest in the war itself should be kept
up among the civilian population who stand
behind the fighting men. Such an interest
is not being maintained ; and it can only be
maintained by giving fuller information to
the people and allowing them free discussion.
Here and there men and women are going
about moaning that we are beaten. Can we
wonder at it? Would men who were win-
ning, they ask; not tell the truth? Deception
and defeat, they argue, go together. And
what can we answer them except this —that
the military machine is something apart;
that it has no regard for the public; that
it does not believe the public should be con-
sulted or informed; that really the proper
thing to do with the public is to chloroform
it until the job is finished? This quite
fairly, The Bulletin believes, puts the
military attitude; and because the politi-
cians who represent the people have not told
the military heads that this attitude is in-
tolerable they have failed terribly in their
duty. In Australia, more even than in most
other places, it is urgently necessary to get the
people filled with the liveliest belief that this
is their war. How can we succeed in that when
the politicians allow the military heads to
push the people aside —to treat them as
though this was nb concern of theirs at all;
as though it was nothing to them whether
this military leader or that was a fool or a
genius; as though discussion of the treat-
ment of soldiers— their soldiers —was no
concern of the people at all? How can we
get the man in the street to feel and say
“This is my war!” when the whole official
tendency is to show him that it isn’t? We
are not beaten; we do not intend to be
beaten. But if defeat could be brought
about it would be by the very methods we
have adopted.
THE PAPER MILL AND SOME
OBSERVATIONS ON PORK.
The great War Loan has closed after being
kept open two weeks beyond the date origi-
nally fixed, and the £40,000.000 asked for has
been over-subscribed. As the manager of the
Commonwealth Bank put the case, it was a
“stupendous achievement.” Still Australia
isn’t in a position to rest on its laurels, and
it has more to do than rub noses, Maori
fashion, in congratulation. The loan wasn’t
so very heavily over-subscribed, after all; in
fact, it appears that, but for the extension
of time, it would have been under-subscribed.
And a few other matters may profitably be
taken into account: —
(1) The biggest demand was for the 44 per cent,
securities which are free of Federal and State taxa-
tion: No one knows what this concession will amount
to when the bill has to be faced. The 8 per cent,
received from bank or insurance shares may be worth
only 4 per cent, net; and such profits are subject
to fluctuations. A guaranteed 4A per cent, is ah
insurance against a multitude of risks ; it is a tower
of strength and, barring public default, it is a protec-
tion against almost everything except sudden death.
(2) The whole business was only made possible by
the issue of paper money. It is about the best-
secured paper money in the world; still the fact
remains that if a Government issues, say,
£50,000,000 of paper (face value) and establishes a
perfectly sufficient gold reserve of, say, £18,000,000
behind it, there is £32,000,000 (face value) of
new money to play with —money that can’t go out
of the country because, it is of no value outside the
country. And by reason of the credit allowed on
instalments there wasn’t £32,000,000 of actual cash
put into the loan. And when the first instalment is
spent locally (being mostly paper it must, in the
main, be spent locally) it will get into circulation
and help to pay the second instalment, and the
second one will give a leg up to the third.
So the paper mill worked hard at printing
the bonds and the documents by which the
banks agreed to advance money at 4 p.c. on
44 p.c. or 5 p.c. securities.
* * » *
It was, as the manager of the Common-
wealth bank truly remarked, “a stupendous
achievement.” Still the next loan had better
step lightly and not step too suddenly, for
the present one has pawned the future
pretty heavily. But such are, after all, side
issues. The big issue is that a local loan,
under present conditions, is of less use to us
than a similar loan is to any of the big
Allies. In Britain, France and the United
States the public debt and the great mass of
private securities are almost entirely held
inside the country where the Governme,nt
paper money is good for the payment of prin-
cipal and interest. Owing to the insane
Freetrade policy of floating loans in London
and raising other forms of capital in London
to “develop the great natural resources,”
Australia is more heavily indebted abroad in
proportion to population than any other land
on God’s green and pawned earth ; and the
equally insane Freetrade policy of relying
more heavily on imports than on local manu-
factures has made it more dependent on goods
brought from outside than any other land
on the Almighty’s embarrassed footstool.
As all these outside liabilities must be paid in
gold , Australia, despite its “stupendous
achievement,” is in a worse position than
any other land of importance, especially as
both the gold output and the number of per-
sons employed in gold mining are little more
than one-third of what they were 17 years ago.
The “stupendous achievement” already men-
tioned throws no light worth mentioning on
this problem, yet it is the one problem that
must be faced if our people are to avert in-
solvency and disaster. Russia, which was
loaded with foreign debt just as we are,
cut the matter short by Bolsheviking and
repudiation. Australia doesn't want either
to Bolshevik or to repudiate. To put the
matter on the most sordid basis, these
methods don’t pay. The visible remedy is
real hard work accelerated by a real hard
tariff, so as to produce more goods that are
worth gold and thereby to diminish the drain
caused by paying for imports, that being the
only drain we can diminish without filing our
schedule. Unfortunately this country seems
to be working a little less than usual instead
of a little more, though the output of indus-
trial disputes is considerable. Pigs are not
an inspiriting thing, neither are bananas,
eggs or split peas. Still they are local pro-
ducts, and when the number of strikes beats
the number of pigs exported (figures for
191.6) by five to one, and also leaves bananas,
chilled pork and split peas hull down on the
horizon, and there are 17 times as many
labor upheavals as there are tons of kero-
sene shale sent away, affairs look lopsided.
In Canada, the United States and Britain
the drastic war device of compulsory labor
has been adopted in one form or another —
but that is a different matter.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Song and Dance and Snuffle.
Barnabas, who writes leading articles for
the S. M. Herald, was responsible for this
(Barnabas means “Son of Consolation,” so
if he doesn’t write for the Herald he ought
to) :
So far, however, we have managed to pay our way
out of revenue. As loan has been added to loan the
interest has been paid out of taxation. There has
been no notion of making one loan pay the interest
bill on the loan that preceded. That is what they
have been doing in Germany. .. .
It is all very kind and comforting, yet there
is about it a faint, musty odor of Bunkum.
It smells like the fruit of the Bosh-tree, a
frequent vegetable in this country. Let the
matter be considered further :—-
(1) We have always managed to pay our way out
of revenue—a lot of it borrowed revenue.
(2) When a loan was floated in London the money
either remained in London to pay interest on loans
and to meet other liabilities, or else it came out in
the shape of goods.
(3) When a big loan was floated there was a great
boom in imported goods—the kind we bought from
other people to prevent our own artisans having em-
ployment. That was “commerce,” and the Herald
said it proved that we were doing splendidly.
(4) A portion of the value of the goods bought
with borrowed money was intercepted at the Cus-
toms. In other words, a portion of the loan was in-
tercepted. It really looks like comic brigandage, this
process of waylaying and plundering our own lOU
on our own highway.
(5) The borrowed goods and the borrowed revenue
made a boom, and the Argus and the Daily Tele-
graph said that the general expansion of things was
quite remarkable.
(6) When a country floats its loans locally and
spends them on locally-made goods, instead of borrow-
ing abroad as Australia is so fond of doing, then it
doesn’t intercept part of the borrowings at the Cus-
toms and call it “revenue” and use it to pay interest
with, for the loans don’t go through the Customs. So
if it borrows openly to pay some of the interest it
gets there just the same as we do, only without the
“commerce” and the “revenue” and the boom and the
hypocrisy. Queensland and N. S. Wales have often
paid half the year’s interest out of loans, of which
fact the Brisbane Courier might make a note.
(7) There are also direct borrowings to cover
interest. Revenue' deficiencies £1,478,400 (Queens-
land) and the same item £146,871 (Tasmania) are
cases in point.
(8) And the statement of Barnabas of the S. M.
Herald that “the interest has been paid out of taxa-


tion” is too silly to impose on a lame pauper. In
the Herald’s own State of X. 8. XV ales fully t'vo-
thirds of the interest bill until 1901 was met by the
proceeds of land sales, and nearly a quarter of the
interest bill both in X. S. Wales and Queensland is
still covered by land sales. If the consolatory
Foreign-trade paper regards the jobbing away of a
national asset as “taxation” then it would probably
call the sale of its morning penn’orth “taxation’ also.
To put the matter shortly, between paying
interest out of foreign loans and paying in-
terest out of land-sale money, this casual,
credulous land of false prophets and be-
nighted shirks has only just begun to pay
a little interest out of taxation. It hasn’t
nearly got down to normal yet, but it is
getting there. Perhaps the old happy delu-
sion might be kept up a little while longer by
putting a 30 per cent, import duty on our
own paper money. Then a Government could
borrow, say, £3,000,0f)0 of it from its own
people, subscribing part of the loan itself if
necessary, and send it in Saratoga trunks to
Fiji, where the rich uncles grow, and bring
it back charging £9OO,O(X> of it as revenue at
the Customs, which sum would do a lot of
good. After that, the remaining £2.100,(L
could go to Fiji again and pay £630.000 to
the revenue on its re-entry, and so on till the
whole amount had been turned in a per-
fectly legitimate fashion into perfectly legi-
timate income, and a new loan was wanted.
It would only be doing with song and dance
and no snuffle what we have hitherto done
with snuffle and no song and dance
♦
Brushing Burrs out of Brains and
Wool.
When the day arrives for Australia to
make a start living upon what the nation
can earn instead of having a jamboree on
what it can- borrow, one of’ the first things
to be noticed will be; the expediency of
getting as much out of the local product as
other people can extract from it. In a
vague way this has already been learned
about metals, though not about coal. Now
some glimmerings of the truth about wool
are beginning to penetrate the public mind.
In its enormous annual harvest from the
jumbuck the Commonwealth has had the
material on which great industries might
have been built, the technical and scientific
skill of the people exercised and the earnings
of the community correspondingly increased.
The general habit has been to concentrate
on thinking out the most expeditious way of
shifting the wool from the shearing-shed to
the other side of the water, so that someone
else could get to work on it and send us
back the finished article. Whereupon the
country floated a loan to pay him for it, and
long, glad details were published to show
what a splendid asset Australia possessed in
its sheep and how if we increased the produc-
tion thereof we could borrow some more and
get continual supplies of tweed and hosiery
and mixtures of wool and rags from the
ends of the earth. Slowly a few woollen
mills came into being to compete against an
ignorant prejudice and shoddy imports and
the cheaper labor of other countries. Most
of them livgd precariously before the war; a
good many of them didn’t live at all; and
even now lamentations a-re to be heard that
supplies of imported woollens are running
short—in a. country producing about
1,800,000 bales of wool a year! The cold
fact about this mass of wool is that in ex-
porting it on the plans hitherto followed
Australians have been letting millions slip
through their fingers. The manufacture of
tops should be a great Australian industry.
The recovery from the wool of waste pro-
ducts such as lanoline is in other countries
highly profitable. Even the job of taking out
the burr and the dirt is one Australia leaves
to strangers. In Winchcombe-CaksON’s
review of the wool trade it is pointed out
that practically no attempt has been made
to establish wool carbonising works in the
Commonwealth, except in the case of a few
mills, to treat some of the very small quan-
tity of wool used in local manufactures.
Actually the average Yorkshireman knows
better than the Australian what the term
used in relation to w T ool means. Carbonising
is the process by which wool is separated
from the burr and other vegetables gathered
by the sheep. About 15 per cent, of the Aus-
tralian wool clip needs carbonising-—that is,
about 280.000 bales. With the burr, etc..
removed this wool appreciates in value about
25 per cent. Before the war the Belgians
and French and to some extent the Germans
were ready buyers of this class of clip.
Taking last year’s average of values 280,000
bales mean £5,000,000. Carbonised they
would mean £1,250,000 more—and that is
what Australia has been losing by burrs in
Australian fleeces and what the foreign
manufacturers and workers have been gain-
ing by burrs in Australian brains. But
there has also been a loss on freight, for 31b.
of uncleaned wool costs 15d. to ship abroad,
whereas if the wool were treated on the
premises only lib. of clean wool would be
left for a ship to carry and collect sd. on.
It also happens that most of the wool which
needs carbonising is specially sought after
for the manufacture of fabrics for under-
wear. There is a field, therefore, in three
directions for great industrial expansion
when Australia turns seriously to work. The
country will want every penny it can make
and save, too. There is no room for error
on that point. Not only must production go
on but the wit to handle what is produced
must be developed.
♦-J
The Wheat Wickedness.
One of these days The Bulletin intends
to publish a story about the profits made
out of wheat-growing in Australia by (1)
the man who ploughed and sowed and har-
vested ; (2) the individuals who were agents
for the numerous pools; and (3) the person
who got in on. the ground floor in the gamble
in wheat scrip. Meanwhile it is about time
the bodies called Wheat Boards issued a
statement as to whether they regard the
enormous accumulation of wheat in Aus-
tralia as an asset of any value, and, if so,
what they are doing to safeguard the grain
from the ravages of time and wild animals.
When the mice plague had reached the Stage
of being able to consume vast quantities of
wheat it was tackled. When the stacks
leghn to fall down they were lifted, up.
When the coverings blew away they were
replaced. When the Boards heard that the
weevil could he combated they did some-
thing small in the way of prevention. But
the information possessed by this paper is
that they are doing nothing to eradicate the
weevil from wheat already affected, and are
not getting into a position to grapple with
the enemy when the warm weather of sum-
mer stirs it into life again. They are simply
taking no notice of the fact that weevily
wheat can be converted into good shipping
or milling grain. A number of machines
have been devised at the expense of the
British Government for reconditioning
weevil-infested cereals. These apparently do
the work satisfactorily. Yet the weevils
remain undisturbed. It is possible that the
Wheat Boards'count on being able to unload
weevily wheat on someone who will clean it.
If so, they ought to say so. They may con-
sider it all in the game that the pest should
ruin a substantial portion of the wheat on
hand. They may even reckon that it doesn't
matter what happens, anyhow, and that
GockY, having been guaranteed 4s. a bushel,
is not interested in the possibility of getting
more or in the grain being fit for delivery.
But there is no reason why these views
should be kept secret or that the Boards
should hide their eccentric policies behind a
solemn pretence of great efficiency.
—— ♦
The Cost of Railways.
One cause of the immense shortage expected
in the N. >S. Wales accounts at June next is
the fact that railway revenue, despite in-
creased charges, is below expectations. Per-
haps the explanation of this trouble, both in
the Ma State and some other States, lies in
the fact thkt the cost per mile on which
interest has to be earned grows steadily
larger. Here are a few figures so far as
KnibbS’s statistics go :—•
Cost Pub Mile or Line.
1002. 1916. Increase per mile.
N. S. Wales'£l3,4os £16,434 £3029
Victoria. . . 12,300 13,266 966
Tasmania.. 8,313 8,539 226
Decrease per mi lc.
Queensland 7,183 7,004 179
Westvaliu. . 5,449 5,138 311
South Aus. 8,766 7,881 ‘ 885
The South Aus. figures in the first column are
not really for 1902, for the sale of a big line to
the Commonwealth disarranged the calcula-
tions, and it was necessary to start at a
later date. But the discrepancy of one date
in the case of one State doesn’t affect the
result. It was always understood that when
the principal lines in and around the cities,
where land is expensive, were built; when
N. S. Wales had finished its enormously
costly Hawkesbury Bridge, the biggest thing
of its kind south of the line; when it had
built over the mountains north and west and
south, and its biggest construction work was
out on the plains where land was dirt cheap
or was already Government property,
the cost of construction would fall materi-
ally. And it was to fall in like manner in
Victoria when the costly Melbourne subur-
ban system was completed. And there was
to be a special saving because railway build-
ing is now so largely a matter of machinery
instead of the primitive pick and shovel.
But the average cost per mile grows bigger
in three States, especially in N. S. Wales.
Apparently no matter how cheap the new
lines being constructed out on the plains
may look, they can be made to prove very
expensive. And no matter how many years
ago a line may have been finished (out of
loans) there is always excuse for spending
more loan money on it. But though N. S.
Wales managed to add £3029 per mile to the
average cost of its lines in 14 years it
wasn’t till the last year of the 14 that the
situation became really dazzling. Here is
the situation:—
Cost Peg Mile op N.S.W. Lines.
* Increase per year.
1902 .. £13,405
1912 .. 13,867 £46
1913 . . 14,505 638
1914 . . 15,157 652
1915 . . 15,483 326
1916 . . 16,434 951
If even the oldest, grandfather among rail-
ways is to go on increasing in capital cost
till the Day of Judgment—if no line ever
becomes so old that there isn’t an excuse for
charging something more to loans and adding
someth'ng to the interest bill —what sort of
a prospect is there?
♦
A Fair Deal for Billjiin.
There is a movement in Sydney, promoted
by the Mayor, “to show' a deeper apprecia-
tion of the services of the soldiers and a
fuller sense of obligation to them.” It is
about time. That the movement has been
delayed so long is, nevertheless, not the pub-
lic’s 'fault. The public, as a whole, does not
know how returning and' returned men are
treated. It is not allowed to know. The
press is muzzled. It must not do anything
“prejudicial to recruiting”—though, as the
recent Press Conference decided unani-
mously. this rule has “itself become highly
prejudicial to recruiting by hindering the
redress of grievances.” Since the press is
thus not permitted to show its own apprecia-
tion of the services of the soldiers and a
sense of obligation to them, and since it is
not permitted to show what the men’s griev-
ances are and thus arouse public interest to
demand and secure their redress, the only
course open is to have in every city a com-
mittee which, with a strong body of public
opinion behind it, may be able to enforce
some reforms—mainly in administration.
Apart from showing an appreciation of the
services of men who have already done their
bit. there is no more valuable recruiting work
outstanding that this ; which makes the new
movement doubly desirable at the present
moment.
♦
Harbors of One Sort and Another.
A feature of Premier Holman’s deliver-
ances, while being bogged on N. S. Wales
North Coast roads, concerned the advantages
of opening up by railway communication
those ports which ate really river mouths,
instead of the other variety. The first sam-
pie of port bas; a big stream behind it, and
along the stream are rich alluvial flats
capable of supporting a large population if
the railway charges are not faked to divert
trade to Sydney, as happened with the New-
castle wool exports. For these flats blossom
like the rose or the plausible green bay tree;
they are capable of growing potatoes, maize,
wheat, hav, straw, split peas, milk, pump-
kins, ensilage, fruit, pickles, cigars, millet,
etc., and thus they supply goods for ship-
ment. Also (but this wasn’t mentioned)
they supply floods, silt,- shifting bars and all
manner of difficulties, involving great and
constant expense, and when money and im-
ported dredges are scarce they are liable to
suffefl from economy and become temporarily
closed, and occasionally, in times of great
rain, they close on general principles. For
want of illimitable cash most N. S. Wales
river mouths are merely haunts of small
craft which carry their cargoes to Sydney for
transhipment, and don’t interfere with the
one big city’s hold on the over-sea trade;
also no great centres grow up there,to com-
pete as banking, insurance and general finan-
cial centres with the abundant metropolis.
On the other hand, the harbor like Jervis
Bay, Eden. Port Stephens or Sydney which
has no big river flowing into it, has much
natural deep water, no floods worth speak-
ing of, no silting up, no unmanageable bar,
no sudden closures, ho eternal bill for dredg-
ing and no big outlay for breakwaters. But
having no big river it lacks those rich adja-
cent flats where the haystack grows and the
smiling landscape brings forth abundantly.
Of course the smiling landscape is bunkum
so far as concerns the question of opening up
serviceable ports. The ocean steamer can't
go up and down the river collecting milk
and onions. The bulk of its cargo has to lie
brought to it by rail or otherwise just as in
the case of the vastly better and cheaper
port like Sydney, which hasn’t the alluvial
flats right on the wharf. Certainly such
places as Olasgow and London are situated
very much as Grafton is. But the cost has
been something that this country couldn’t
dream of, and even then Glasgow is inferior
to Sydney as a Shipping port, and London
doesn’t much more than hold its own against
upstart places like Liverpool and Cardiff,
which have less political pull and centuries
loss of a start, but which also have less silt.
Australia lias had a long experience of river
ports like Maryborough, Rockhampton (which
exists chiefly to divert attention from Glad-
stone), Innisfajl, Perth (which has to do its
shipping at Fremantle), Melbourne (which
has wasted an immense amount of its sub-
stance trying to make the Yarra a real
harbor while Westernport, which the
Almighty made a real harbor, is left a
blank) ; and it has found them all costly and
few of them profitable. Many places which
call themselves ports got their start because
(1) they had 3ft. or 4ft. of water, which
seemed enough in the early days for shipping-
purposes; (2) the river was consequently
fordable, and it was too early to think of
bridges; (3) they had alluvial flats handy,
and that was an advantage in the times when
the ship could call at the farm in passing and
load up with turnips; and (4) the river was
drinkable' owing to the distance from the sea,
and in the absence of waterworks the popula-
tion could fetch the fluid in a jug. Thus
some ill-selected spots accumulated enough
people and political pull to prevent the
development of much better places close at
hand, even when the old spots became out of
date. As a sort of saving clause Holman
proceeded to enthuse a little about the neg-
lected deep-water ports of his own State- —
Port Stephens, Twofold Bay and Jervis Bay.
He yearns, however, only now that the loan
money is giving out. But The Bulletin
recofds the yearn in case loan money should
some day resume and Holman may be still
available to spend it.
Some Words and the Liquor Question.
The Newcastle Anglican Synod has been
worrying itself over the question of liquor,
gambling and picture, films, and in the
report of its Civics and Morals Committee
explains the position with regard to alcohol :
We live in a hot climate, and the percentage of
alcohol even in our beers is intolerable. The chief
methods of reform proposed are State control and
prohibition. Just now we are less ready to worship
“State control” in general than was the tendency
of recent years. We have learnt that the State, even
when spelt with a large S, is not necessarily a
inoral power of any very high order.
Now the difference between prohibition and
State control is sufficiently wide to suggest
that the Synod might have given an opinion
one way or the other. Under prohibition all
the licensed trade goes out and beer fades
into the dens of the sly-grog seller or remains
in a cask under the bed in the home of the
thirsty. Under State control a reformed'
pub sells liquor of the best quality more
openly than ever before and with the
evils of drunkenness eliminated as far
as possible. There is no compromise
between the two systems, and the mere men-
tion of them in a report does not help the
controversy forward one step. The remark
about the State being not necessarily a high
moral power has therefore a quaint look
when coupled with the previous yes-no
observation. The moral- power of a State
on questions of this kind does not rest with
the Legislature nor with the policeman. It
is simply the force of public opinion ; and
if an Anglican civics and morals committee
hasn’t any more opinion than may be
summed up in the remark that it is too hot
for beer, and therefore there ought to be
no beer, or if there is beer then it ought to
be better beer, what decent hope is there
that the opinion of the rank and file should
be any more fixed or effective? If an
ecclesiastical body sets itself a definite task
of advising on a moral question and then
presents a report which is a mere camouflage
of _ words, why throw mud at the State for
being indefinite also?
♦
“For the Future.”
News of a projected German-Austrian com-
bine to control the import trade of “war pro-
ducts”—animals, vegetables, textiles, min-
erals, etc.—from Russia, Persia, China and
elsewhere can be accepted without any grain
of salt. The scheme came into Germany’s
dream of world-conquest as soon as the pre-
sent war had convinced the Kaiser that
something more than unlimited bloodshed
was essential to German victory. Baron von
Fre ytag-Lori nghoveJn, “the most distin-
guished soldier-writer of Prussia,” talks of
the necessity for it in his book, “Deductions
from the World War”:—
In the European wars up to 1870-71, when we were
still predominantly an agrarian State, questions of
world-policy and world-economics had played a com-
paratively subordinate r6le. It has been the develop-
ment of our trade, combined with the increase of our
population, which, in the course of this world war,
has thrown into special prominence the significance
of these questions in relation to our Fatherland. The
import of raw materials, foodstuffs and manufactured
articles, the export of the products of our industries,
had become essential conditions of our economic life.
In regard to these questions the outbreak of the world
war found us insufficiently prepared. Such measures
as we had taken were shown to be inadequate. . . .
This is not the place til examine how far, in view of
the all too rapid growth of her trade, worhl-policv
and world-economics may have been premature in
the case of Germany, inasmuch as our continental
position was still by no means sufficiently assured.
Even the power of prevision attributed to great men
is, after all, very limited. In every domain only the
war itself could be the great teacher in regal’d to
these hitherto unknown effects of world-economics
upon its range... .Without clear views and an
adequate understanding of the major sequences of the
War, not only as regards operations and tactics, hut
also as regards world-politics and world-economics,
tcc .tlinll nnt be in a position to draw accurate deduc-
tions for the future.
Tim Austro-Germau combine is more than
projected. It is already in operation, with
ils headquarters at Bremen, and is to be
“officially liquidated a year after peace is
signed, but will continue its operations un-
officially.' Practically it is a combine for the
purpose of winning the war next time, for,
"in th(> future as in the past,” says the cold-
blooded war-writer, “the German people will
have to seek firm cohesion in its glorious
army and in its helaurelled young fleet.” If
the Allies are driven to make a peace before
Germany is well beaten, we have at least
been forewarned as to the use to which the
truce will ho put.
Wild and Woolly Happenings.
As the good Australian goes to the war
front he loses his hold on his country’s
affairs, for the right to vote counts for
nothing worth mentioning when the organisa-
tion is left to the other man. So the bad
Australian, and the indifferent Australian,
and the person who isn’t any Australian to
speak of, but a linn or pro-Hun or Bolshe-
vik or Anarchist or I.W.W. or mere crank,
gain, more and more influence. Compulsory
service would send the men this country
requires to be rid of to the Front as well
as taose that it can ill spare; voluntaryism
leaves the worst elements a chance to govern
the community in the absence of better men.
Hence quite a number of remarkable things
are happening—small things, perhaps, but
many of them. The Geelong (Vic.) Trades
and Labor Council refused to support an
appeal by the wifi; of the Governor-General
for Red Cross funds, it being explained by
the local Federal member that the Red Cross
was used for the oppression of the “working
classes.” The Labor party, or some unde-
sirables who are allowed to use it for their
own cranky purposes, while nominating a
Labor candidate for Flinders (Vic.) took
the opportunity to remark that peace with
a British victory is impossible, and to recom-
mend an immediate cessation of hostilities.
If there is no British victory then the cessa-
tion can only be arrived at on the Hun’s
terms; either our side is to cease fighting
and let the Hun steal and kill as he pleases,
or else the Hun must be asked what he will
take to cease lighting likewise. TlTh condi-
tions, in his hunger for colonies, will doubt-
less include the handing over -of Australia.
So the authors of that Labor pronouncement
imply their willingness to give their country
to Prussian militarism, oppression, conscrip-
tion, plunder, murder and rape, even if they
are involved in the common destruction.
Whether this is treason or not, it is a
remarkably good imitation of madness. A
branch of the Labor party (Bendigo West)
has denounced enlistment for local defence as
an “artful dodge” on the part of the Defence
Department to get rid of superfluous uni-
forms. _ So apparently even a very small
and mild and purely voluntary effort to pro-
vide against a possible landing by the beloved
Ilun may fall under suspicion. A big Vic-
torian union (the Railways) has given a
straight-out vote for the repudiation of the
public debt —a debt which Labor Govern-
ments and Labor leaders have been most
active in incurring. Apparently the fact
that repudiation would make a bad wreck of
savings banks and I'fe insurance offices and
thus bring down the roof on the head of
Labor itself doesn’t matter so long as there
is the joy of smashing something. If Neb©
did burn Rome, which is uncertain, he is at
least alleged to have supplied an accompani-
ment of pleasant music, but these proposals
haven’t even a touch of melody to redeem
them. The representatives of Labor in N. S.
Wales have issued a blighting curse upon the
Holman Ministry for not finding still more
loan mqpey, and has incidentally stated that
money ought to be borrowed in abundance
without interest, and that it knows, but
doesn’t explain, how the marvel can be done.
The Labor leaders have decided' that if a
number of law-breakers are released they
may look with more favor on voluntary
enlistment to keep the Hun from their
doors and the doors of their wives' and
daughters’ bedrooms, but there was no wild
enthusiasm about the business. Labor-leader
Storey, of X. S. Wales Assembly, having
attended a P.L.L. meeting, found himself
called upon by a large and hostile party—
but not a majority—to "‘explain” his conduct
in delivering speeches in favor of voluntary
recruiting. Not compulsory recruiting, be
it noted, but the of Australians
without any eomnulsion to defend their
homes and their liberties. The advocate of
compulsory recruiting goes out of the politi-
cal Labor organisations on his ear, and there
is evidently a gang of tyrants in the move-
ment which would gladly send the voluntary
man after him ; for though free speech is a
priceless possession, the pricelessness only
applies when the speaker freely speaks the
way the gang wants him to.


&
C C. fie “yjusfralia.
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Horning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
IN THE HIMMi HAKE, A LA
CARTE ROOMS nr PRIVATE
ROOMS at Lutn-beod, Diuner or
Supper. Eateol MUsle.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
m*.
M
T s
&
■ i
The Insurance of Soldiers.
A bequest is made to the public to transfer
current insurance bonuses to a fund for
having policies for married men who will
g,»"to the Front. The Bulletin long ago
suggested that this should be done; but tne
time was then not ripe. It is now. The
time is ripe now for almost anything that will
bring in a few more volunteers. Rightly,
no doubt, an insurance office will not issue
at the old rate a new policy to a man wno
is just off to the trouble, it asks, as a rule,
a premium of 10 per cent.—that is to say,
a policy for £5OO costs £5O a year—and very
few married men can afford it out of their
military pay. In any case to ask a married
man either to go away uninsured or to pay
£lO per cent, for insurance is not a fair
thing. And because he knows it is not a
fair thing many a married man who is
thoroughly lit for military service stays at
home. We are, however, less concerned
about him than about the one who goes. It
is a crying shame that he and his family
.should be penalised. Surely he and they
suffer enough Without this! ‘lnsurance ought
to be provided, not only for the married men
with dependants who will go, but equally
for those who have gone: there certainly
should be no bonus paid for hanging back.
But who should pay? The hands of the
Government are full; and they have not
been skilful hands either. Besides, apart
from this, there is plenty yet for that autho-
rity to do: some of the pensions, for in-
stance, are a shameful travesty upon the
fair thing. If it is done at all this insur-
ance must be done by the citizens individu-
ally ; and there is no way in which it can
be done with less effort than by the transfer
of bonuses. These are moneys which are
not once in a hundred cases handled by the
policy-holder at the time they are declared ;
and, in the most literal way, nobody will
feel a penny the poorer for the sacrifice.
Apart from the most excellent patriotic work
which this disposition of bonuses will do, the
question arises whether surrender is not
merely a fair thing. Three-fourths of the
policies current in Australia are mutual;
the bulk of the others arc co-operative. Can
such policy-holders properly take advantage
of the fact that they insured before, their
society became aware of one of the great
pests of the world? As a matter of hard
fact, the net premium rates have been too
low all along. For years past, while the
preparations for war were in progress,
policy-holders should have been accumulat-
ing a great reserve so that men who go to
the Front, married or unmarried, might get
insurance at the ordinary rate. A nation
at war is one of the risks of the world that
had been overlooked by the actuaries; and,
as a result, their figures have been wrong,
arid either the gross premiums have been
too low or the bonuses distributed have been
too large. To-day we have to get out of a
difficulty thus created as best We can. Which
all means that it is very doubtful indeed
whether policy-holders are morally entitled
to their bonuses —even to some of the past
bonuses. If they compromise by surrender-
ing their current bonuses it is the least they
can do.
The Armies Go Into Dock.
The last seven days in France have been
rather tamer. The German machine has
been in the repair shop. But there seems to
be no doubt that it will soon be set rolling
again; and, meantime, the halt is not
at all unwelcome to the Allies. While one
side has been getting ready to punch and the
other to parry, the war c- rrespondents, offi-
cial commentators and politicians have been
busy making calculations of losses and of
the number of divisions available to the
enemy, and giving assurance of the army’s
complete confidence in its ability to hold the
German down. The arithmetic may be all
right, but similar statistical information in
the past has proved to have been so hope-
lessly unreliable that the safer thing to do
now is to prepare for something worse. If it be
true that the German losses in recent battles
have amounted to 500,000 and the Allies’ to
250,000, and i" it be also true that the fight-
ing is to,rage all summer, we may certainly
expect something to break soon afterwards.
The tale that there is confidence among
the Allied armies is probably more entitled
to belief than anything else. _ If there was
no confidence —well, the armies would not
be there. But the German is in all likeli-
hood being told the same thing with just as
much reason. So. long as Von llindenbukg
goes on delivering these fearsome blows and
gathering up shattered divisions and throw-
ing them back into the furnace it can be
taken as reasonably certain that the old
man is as confident as anyone else. What
this paper would like to bean something
from the inside about is whether behind the
confidence of the Allied armies there is satis-
faction with the rate of shipbuilding and
certainty of the submarine being licked by
the increase of tonnage. The hopes of the
Allies rest as much upon the sea as upon
land, and will continue to c&o so until Uncle
Sam gets right into the fray. The sooner
he is there the better. While they have been
waiting for him the Allied armies have been
asked to. carry almost more than flesh and
blood: can stand.
The price-fixing enthusiast h.as lately been
varying his yell. Mostly his trouble seems
to be that the fixing works tVie wrong way
and the consumer is getting smitten more
heavily than ever. The most noticeable
result is that the fixers are. busy all the
morning demanding that the price of some-
thing be "regulated” and all the afternoon
denouncing the .price that was "regulated”
for something else. Last week a lift was
officially given to the wholesale price of
butter in Victoria and the Speck from 14!)s.
4d. to 102 s. per cwt. The noise that fol-
lowed was like all the dairy utensils on earth
falling down a shaft. The explanation given
of this fixation was that as about a quarter
of the butter required weekly for consump-
tion in those two States has to be brought
from Bananaland, the cost of freight mint
be added. This means presenting the butter-
dealer with a bonus by allowing him to col-
lect freight on one box out of four and. get
away with bunce on the other three. As a
sample of how price-fixing can badly beat
the public these proceedings are enti tied to
admiration. Yet the p<H>ple who wer,<e most
noisily protesting against the increase were
frantically demanding that further experi-
ments in fixation should be started. The
B<sxetin takes the opportunity t.o again
protest against the public buing biuuboozled
by these rule-of-thumb economists. There
is only one way by which State pauce-fixing
can be anything except a. worse form of
robbery than the community has always
endured, and that is by the State taking
control at the point of production. This
has been proved all the world over. The
notion that the State can step in at any
stage and put prices on any idling and every-
thing without making a mesai is as grotesque
as the other one that bee: iuse s. shortage
exists in any commodity ti'ie State should
push up quotations.
“Platn Australian” : Irela ad. according to
“Ruraidi.e O’Conor” (B. 2/'5/’18), “stands
erect” against England "to diemand that the
military bullying to which she has always
been subjected shall now and for ever cease.
She knows that for the momen.t the strong arm
is hers and not England’s, and she has no
intention of being bullied or coerced.” Does
slit', and has she? "Now. v fill “Rxjraidle”
take a fresh breath and tell 1 js common Aus-
tralians who don’t care one jingle damn for
all the Irelands that ever co aspired together
and then ran to inform against each other
just how erect Ireland will, stand if the
Roche licks this hateful Ei igland that has
been bullying Ireland for UOO long years?
Germany wouldn’t fake alarm at 1500 Irish-
men armed with German we: tpons, and more-
over there would not be any weapons sup-
nlied. If they were supplied they would
be of the same unreliable k'md as were sup-
plied by Krupp’s to the Bel gian forts, cheap,
before the war. The fact is that with Ger-
man control Ireland would stand erect just
long enough to let the first Boche get near
enough to put in the boot.
From Petrograd :
Search of the Foreign. Office archives has afforded
some interesting reading. We. now learn that Russia
under the Czar had arranged a secret treaty with
Germany which practically abrogated the provisions
of Russia’s treaty with France. The person most
responsible for the treachery was the slimy but able
Von Tschirsky, who was the Hun Foreign Minister at
the time, and in August, 1914, was the Kaiser’s
Ambassador at Vienna. Von Tschirsky had a hand
in framing Austria’s ultimatum to Servia, and it was
probably Iris secret expectation that Russia would
not fight that influenced: him in having'the terms of
that document stiffened. New light is available, too,
on the late monarchy’s curious tolerance of Constan-
tine of Greece and its support of that traitor in his
refusal to participate in the Dardanelles attack. The
Czar’s Foreign Minister, Sazonoff, indeed, stipulated
that, should Greece go in (it would be against Russia’s
wishes if she did), the Greek troops, in the event of
victory, were not to be allowed near Constantinople.
Incidentally, the Eurasian Government’s advices make
it tolerably clear that the Gallipoli venture was
never nearer success than at the time of the evacua-
tion. Russia knew , (and the archives show it) that
the Turkish Government considered the situation so
desperate that it wras preparing to bolt with all its
papers, harems and other valuables to Asia Minor.
Winston Churchill was probably aware of this when
he made a prophecy of sudden victory qt the Dar-
danelles, which almost all the English papers ridi-
culed in strong language. But if Churchill knew
something, the Intelligence Department of the British
War Office was, as usual, profoundly ignorant; and
Russia was not at all anxious that it should be
anything else.
From- the Gallery : —-
AVith Watt at the helm, the Commonwealth is
behaving like a punt on a lagoon. There is hardly
a ripple on the surface, except when a Tudorite
swoons at the pleasure of being treated again like a
human being. Both Cook and Hughes were more
inclined to hand thistles and brambles than olive
branches to the Opposition; wherefore the change to
Watt, with an unwonted tact softening his natural
belligerence, is something to be profoundly grateful
for. That Watt is willing to conciliate and concede
in order to develop a desire for work is shown by
his readiness to afford information on subjects about
which Hughes pretended to be a Safe Deposit. More-
over, his gentle reproof of Nationalists who make
personal disparagements in brief exclamations is an
earnest of his desire to get ahead and do things. A
pity that some of the Opposition were not more
responsive to his overtures ! We still get jeers from
Brennan, fleers from Considine and fears from Higgs.
Higgs doubtless does much of his burrowing in the
public interest; but his elaborate air of suspicion,
which he mitigates with an apologetic manner, is
more dangerous to political serenity than the ordi-
nary jeering and fleering from the other side.
The sugar-growers have been getting £2l
per ton and they say that they won’t be able
to make ends meet for next crop at less than
£24 per ton. This is set down to a lot of
things—increased cost of imported machinery
being one and increased wages another.
Certainly the Queensland wages boards were
fairly liberal in the matter of wages. One
crowd says this was because of the increased
cost of living, which is quite obvious; and
another crowd says that in addition to this
the Queensland authorities felt gay and
cheerful about wages, seeing that the Fed-
eral Government, which is Australia, which
is mostly not Queensland, was paying for
the sugar. Anyhow, the Federal authority
has much surplus sugar on hand, and at
present rates it seems to have cost a good
deal more than the price outside. This
doesn’t prove that wages are too high, but
it does prove that it would be a good thing
to have a big manufacturing population here,
so that, machinery could be made locally
instead of costing almost its weight in silver,
and so that the sugar would have a bigger
local market.
S. Australia thinks it might build ships,
too ; but this is the position. The Federal
Government offers £2B per ton for new steel
ships—£2B,ooo for a thousand-ton vessel.
There is, however, no knowing what wages
will be, as the industrial laws are rather
helpless, and as for the cost of imported
materials no one knows what a day may
bring forth. The shipbuilders reckon that
bookmaking is a safer business, for the race
is over in three or four minutes, while they
are invited to bet on a 12 months’ race, the
odds being subject to any increase in jockeys'
remuneration and the price of horse-feed
while the animal is running. They there-
fore ask that they should be to some extent
on day labor like their employees, instead
of wholly on piecework. Hut no arrange-
ment has been arrived at. The Government,
whether Federal or State, puts its foot down
in most cases only to take it up again, but
in the matter of shipbuilding by Private
Enterprise its foot remains down, and in
the matter of shipbuilding by Public Enter-
prise its foot is up all the time.
Labor in Victoria, having at last decided
that a pledge is a pledge and no more, hopes
in future to avoid cataclysms within the
party owing to disagreements between the
head* and the tail. The recent State con-
ference firmly threw out a proposition which
sought to bind its candidates, if returned to
Parliament, to accept any later alteration to
the platform as part of the policy on which
they were elected. If they want anything
more than that they must adopt the principle
of the recall. They must, that is. if they
want men and not jellyfish to be their candi-
dates.
“Steel,” talking of the hold the German steel-
makers had on Australia, said (B. 25/4/’18)
that “the Silverton Tramway Co. bad a
number of truck bodies held up for months
awaiting axles to replace some ordered from
Germany, but undelivered owing to the
war.” The co. has made available corres-
pondence which shows that the axles were
ordered to British specification on July 13,
1914. and were placed for manufacture by
Taylor Bros, and Co., an English firm. The
co., The Bulletin is assured, lias used
nothing of Krupp’s manufacture for the past
20 years—which suggests that, unlike a lot
of other people, the Silverton Tramway Co.
didn’t need a war to make it decently
patriotic.
George Fitz Patrick. of the Voluntary
Workers’ Assoc, (Sydney) :
Anyone who wants to give away empty bottles of
any sort or clean tins with lids can find my place
dead easy. It is on the sth floor of Eastwood Cham-
bers, 19a Elizabeth-street. The empties are sold
for the benefit of the soldiers’ home-building scheme.
There is only one stipulation: they must be clean.
There is no substitute for hard work,
after all. As one ship after another quitted
the coast on war service those that remained
were spread out thinner; fast were
expected to be in two places at once and
decrepit ships were urged to renew their
youth. Now. Mackay (Q.) reports that,
with its immediate surroundings, it requires
500 tons of food weekly, that its scrap of
railway only connects with sugar-growing
districts like itself, that man can’t live by
sugar alone, and that the 25 tons of steam-
boat space allotted to it is a mockery. Other
places will doubtless be heard from shortly.
The same day that Mackay’s empty stomach
was published it transpired;—
That the U.S. had launched 41,105 tons of new
ships for the week.
That the launchings are now at the rate of 54,000
tons per week.
That Liverpool has just launched the biggest
wooden ship in the world, and is rushing the con-
struction of six other timber monsters.
That a Texas (U.S.) firm reckons to be able to
begin and finish a ship inside a month.
Also it transpired :
That “consideration is being given’’ (bv Acting
Navy Minister Povnton) to the construction of three
ships at Sydney.
That at Melbourne thd Shipbuilding Dispute Court
“has been sitting for some time considering the
application of the Ironworkers Assistants’ Union, - ’ and
is “now considering the decision.” The matter of the
Boilermakers Society comes next, and then the dis-
pute between the Engine Drivers and Firemen’s Assoc,
anil the Electrical Trades Employees Assoc, will be
dealt with.
Which is all glad news for Mackay.
Australia lost one of its oldest native-born
when George Richard Tuckwell shifted camp
the other day. He arrived in Parramatta
on January 10, 1825, his parents being also
native-born. His grandfather, Richard
Tuckwell. came to Botany Bay as Q.M.S.
iii the First Fleet and married a daughter
of Samuel a’Beckett, the surveyor who laid
out the village of Parramatta, then the seat
of government. George started to battle
with the wolf when he was eight years old,
and was still carrying on sturdily when he
was SO. For many years lie raised fruit
and a family in the Castle Hill district.
With the family he was so successful that
he left 53 grandchildren and 64 great-grand-
children.
Clarence Wallach. who died of wounds in
France lately, was the Hfth of six brothers
successively known as “Doss” at Sydney
Grammar, where they all made a name as
athletes. After leaving school, Clarence
played Rugby with Eastern Suburbs (Syd-
ney), and represented Mil State against
Queensland, and Australia against Maori-
land. He enlisted as a. private in time to
go through the Gallipoli tragedy, and got a
commission in France. Mention in despatches
and a Military Cross came later, and when
the Last Post sounded, at 28, he was wear-
ing a captain’s stars. The other five brothers
are all in khaki; one of them wears the
M.C., and another has just got back after
Spending nine months in a Ilun prison.
Tallied his last wether, Sydney Smith, of
Alavina, Vic. Western District —notable
chiefly because he was son of the late John
Thomas Smith, the Dick Whittington of
Melbourne. Sydney himself was a “sport-
ing” old lad who crammed a lot of lively
experiences into his generous span of years.
Gone out to wounds in France, Clarence
Daly, who Nvas 28, a D.S.O. and a lieut.-
eolonel. He was a captain in the City of
Melbourne infantry, joined the 6th, and was
at Gallipoli, where he acquired a wound and
his majority. In France he gained another
wound, his lieut.-colonelcy, mention in des-
patches and the D.S.O. He continued to
serve brilliantly until wounded a third time ;
then a brave soul went west.
At Sydney Quarter Sessions last week
James .Tones was awarded six months for
assaulting James Jones and robbing him of
15s. 4d. James .Tones missed the chance of
pleading that he really thought he was
reproving his own wicked flesh and helping
himself to his own small change.
In Queensland now they call Hughes’s
Egg Police the German Band. Because they
are playing “Der Watch on der Ryan.”
A chance revolver-shot has given Adelaide
a brief sensation. Hocking, a well-known
builder, noticed the window open in a next-
door house which he had been asked to keep
an eye upon. He armed himself, went in.
found a man under a bed and led him off.
At the gate the stranger shook off the hold
and bolted. Hocking, after calling to him
to stop, took a chance shot. The measured
distance was over 50 yards, yet the single
bullet went through his brain. The shooter
was detained by the police, but released by
the Coroner, who gave him complete exonera-
tion. There were, said Dr. Ramsay Smith,
the full elements of justifiable homicide:—
Deceased had committed a felony. Hocking had
legal authority to arrest him, and did 50....
Deceased escaped and fled....and. if not for the
firing, would have escaped.... It was killing in the
process of the legal duty required of a citizen in
carrying out his obligations towards the State.
It happened on Saturday at midday, and
the Saturday-night papers, which are a
feature of Adelaide, had the town humming
with the affair all next day. Obviously, what
they got was a version gleaned in a hurry by
a reporter from the friends of the shooter:
but they had the character of the deceased
nicely blackened as a burglar before his
case could be judged by any court.


r
w
pOORD 8l SOIV
lOHDON. ENGLAND.
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
to
DT
Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St.,
Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE: & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G, HOWARD POPE. General Manager.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
In the purpose of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
There’s nothing uncertain and nothing obscure ;
It will vanish a cough, it will banish a cold,
And its powers to comfort are manifold.
In gastric complaints it unfailingly brings
A soothing relief where the malady stings.
There are no narrow limfts of action, be sure
In the uses of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
The “WARRIGAL” GUINEA HAT.
Peapes’ latest, and best, innovation in super-quality
Australian Hats. The smooth, even, well-blocked
felt, the thick, smooth head-leathers, the quality of
the bands, all indicate fine workmanship. This hat
excels all previous Australian productions, and is in
fact better than any other hat obtainable at the
same price to-day. Brim 2Jin., turned edge, bow
at side or back. Colors: Mid-Grey and Steel.
PRICE .21/-
Peapes pay postage.
PEAPES & CO, LTD.,
MEN'S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 3 \\ George Street, Sydney,
Peapes’ “Warrigal” trade-mark is
stamped on the head-leather.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Bird of Paradise”
Her Majesty's Whittington
Palace J ?. e J iUXe », nnie ..
Tivoli ‘ Tj™ e , P1 ® ase „
Playhouse ........... The Scarlet Troubadours
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Are Here’’
Royal “Outcast”
King’s “The Masquerader
Bijou . Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli “Samples”
Hovt's Dk LuiE & Olymi-ia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Tchekoff, Tolstoi and the other Russian
dramatists must look to their laurels; John
Cosgrove in collaboration with Ben .1. Fuller
has given them something to think about.
“Rasputin,” produced at Sydney Opera
House on Saturday to an audience which
found the monk’s villainies humorous, be-
longs to the historical school of tragedy.
Historians of the future will no doubt learn-
edly discuss and annotate the origins of this
great tragedy: all that is apparent now is
that the two playwrights have examined
every history of the famous monk appearing
in the popular magazines, and have not dis-
dained to visit the picture-shows to gather
their material. On several occasions, how-
ever, the conscientious fellows have sacrificed
drama in order to preserve historical truth.
There are front scenes in which the char-
acters tell each other of happenings else-
where that would be much more exciting to
watch, while the monk Teofan’s frequent
libations and the Naked Believers are not
exciting at all. The Naked Believers scene
is about as startling and undraped as a
suburban wedding in a good Methodist
family. But the variety turn that follows —
living statuary groups—is both pleasing
and artistic. Though it seems like sacrilege
to suggest any mutilation of this pains-
taking masterpiece of John Cosgrove and
Ben J. Fuller, “Rasputin” would be a
greater popular success if 75 per cent, of the
talky front scenes was cut, if Teofan
(overplayed by John Cosgrove) was less
frequently drunk and refrained occasionally
from shouting his asides, if the Czar of
Russia (Arthur Orbell) grew a better beard,
if Rasputin (George Cross) occasionally
mislaid his chuckle and the dragging wail
in his voice and preached much less, and if
Tuffcheff (Harry McDonna) worked a
little less energetically to extract laughs
out of a part that is singularly lacking in
anything but barks. Roland Conway makes
a manly I’rinceski, Rutland Beckett an
excellent Sergeantski, and Collett Dobson .
a quite possible German spyski, who, out
of deference to the dramatists, wears his
German uniform and bis Kaiser whiskers
in Petrograd during the war. Dunstan Webb
is an ideal warder in the Siberian scenes.
Clare Duggan, Elsie Prince, Edna Waters
and the other ladies are efficient in colorless
parts. The stage settings and effects are
excellent.
* s!= * *
Emelie Polini. of the velvet voice, is per-
sonally responsibly for the continued success
o c “De Luxe Annie” at Sydney Palace.
The stage effects
of that talky melo-
drama, “The Bird
of Paradise.” at
Sydney Criterion,
are much better
than the drama.
The tropical rain-
storm, the fasci-
nating Hawaiian
refrain that runs
through the scenes,
the hula hula
dances, the faithful
volcano, and the
brown patches of
Muriel Starr are all
exceedingly attrac-
tive. They almost
make the audience
forget how thin the
play is.
* sk * *
“Dick Whitting-
ton” is six weeks
old at Sydney
Maj e s t y’s, and
shows signs o f
senile decay. The
The Scarlet Trouba-
dours, at Sydney
Playhouse.
Ronald Henry sings a
Coster song.
“Last Nights” signal is out.
sk sk * *
“Time, Please,” is at eight o’clock on
Saturday evening, at Sydney Tivoli. The
promising list of principals includes the ever-
reliable Barry Lupino and Espinosa, the
dancer from the World. Vaudeville holds
the stage until Friday.
That great and sincere reformer the mov-
ing-picture man knows how hungry people
are for the Great Moi-al Lesson. So we have
the Thaw tragedy hashed up at Sydney Royal
as “Redemption,” with Evelyn Thaw play-
ing Evelyn Thaw. The photography is good
and the religious picture-plotter makes what
he considers a happy ending by marrying
the son of the wronged lady to the daughter
o: the man who made all the trouble.
The Scarlet Troubadours are the third of
the series of entertainers who have come to
Sydney Playhouse to carry on its new tra-
ditions. The Scarlets, an essentially' Aus-
tralian company, arrive with a record of 25
weeks at Melbourne. They offer some bright
voices and dull moments. Hylda Shannon,
Linda Bradford, Maxine Mackenzie and Ivy
Davis are attractive comedians and good-to-
fair operatic singers; and Reg Hawthorne,
in light comedy and song, and Roland Henry,
in burlesque, lead a company that is larger
than usual in this class of entertainment. The
programme ranges from classical-opera selec-
tions to crude burlesque; but even at its
crudest the company dresses its scenes
attractively. A change of programme will
occur every Thursday.
Hi ;$c sfc &
Olga Petrova, having gone in for medi-
cine and obtained her degree, masquerades
as Laurie Carlisle, M.D., in the Sydney
Crystal Palace story called “The Light
Within.” Undisturbed by the possession of
a husband and a lover and beautiful clothes,
she pursues and runs to earth a meningitis
serum and another for the cure of anthrax
When she is not wrapped up in science she
“RASPUTIN,” AT SYDNEY OPERA
HOUSE.
Rasputin (George Cross) hypnotises the
Czar.
is looking after her little son, quarrelling in
dignified fashion with her husband, renew-
ing an old love and generally enjoying a
crowded hour. Julian Eitinge as “The
Clever Mrs. Carfax” scores a triumph. The
story is spirited, and Eitinge makes his
female quite a charming person to
meet. Hoyt’s and the Hay market harbor
this double. “The Hopper” is the Strand’s
trump for seven days. A Ming vase and a
Japanese plate form the groundwork for a
family quarrel, only patched up after many
years by calling in the services of a profes-
sional bqrglar with a nice manner.
Alexander Watson, with his tall, gaunt
dignity more marked, and his voice richer,
and more versatile than ever, recited all sorts
of lines for two hours at Melbourne Athe-
naeum Hall last Saturday. A formal arm-
chair on the platform and a pair of curtains
at the back were the only accessories to his
entertainment, to w’hieh a crowded audience
did honor as of old. Watson was stirringly
descriptive in “The Guard Came Through,”
by Conan Doyle, and a “Ballad of the War-
time Trawlers,” by Capt. Ilepworth. whose
verse is Kiplingesque. He dropped into
humorous blokeiness when giving ’em
Dennis’s “Singing Soldiers,” which is terse
in construction, and Kipling’s prose yarn of
“My Lord, the Elephant,” where the drollery
might be more condensed. And he was
grandly declamatory in Tennyson’s “Ode on
the Burial of Wellington.” But this
poem is not sufficiently informative to the
modern audience. It takes for granted (mat
everybody is acquainted with all the main
incidents of Wellington’s career—as in the
lines beginning “Who. is lie that cometh?”
where it assumes general knowledge of the
fact that the old Duke came to be placed
in the crypt of St. Paul next to Nelson. But,
as a subject for the reciter to spread his
talent on, the Ode left a deep impression. Alex-
ander Watson changes his programme every
night, and must keep Heaven knows how
many tens of thousands of lines green in his
memory. To-night (Thursday) he gives all
the Ddtheboys Hall scenes from “Nicholas
Nickleby.”
sk sk sk sk
At Melbourne Majesty’s the Bing Boys
are still There. Any other boys would
answer the purpose
of the dressy pro-
duction equally
well, but for advt.
purposes they have
to be Bing. They
started with a bang
and it will be a
long time ere they
are bung. Next
Thursday a Red
Cross matinee at
Her Majesty’s will
give employment to
all the chief per-
formers from all
the local theatres.
To-morrow (Fri-
day) an auction
sale of seats will
occur at the Royal.
5k s|: *
Guy Bates Post,
in spite of liis un-
happy name, ap-
pears to be a grow-
ing attraction at
Melbourne King’s.
“The Masquerader”
is an oddly inter-
esting play that
improves on ac-
“The Masquerader ,”
at Melbourne King’s.
Guy Bates as his
double, John Loder.
qunintanee, being full of matter and
crowded with acting opportunities. The
story becomes almost credible under Post-
treatment of the two characters —the
morphia-maniac and the Masquerader who
survives in his stead. With the aid of an
efficient “double” and some tricky stage-man-
agement the actor realises his dual imperso-
nation of the Chilcote who dies and the
man who lives to marry the widow of de-
ceased without letting the world know that
he wasn’t her own lawful Number 1, but
really her Number 2. For the success of
this pious fraud the drama and Miss Ruby
Gordon share credit with Guy. Miss Gordon
as the servant girl at Loder’s lodgings, seems
to have a genuine belief that the bedrugged
Chilcote is the lodger she had humbly
adored, and when at last she addresses his
corpse as ‘Mr. Loder” the idea of getting it
buried in the living man’s name strikes the
loyal Brock irresistibly. Brock’s simple
loyalty to the Chilcote dynasty is the main-
stay of the plot. To “preserve the family
honor ’ he rushes Loder into a masquerade
which is to be only temporary; and with
the blessed family honor still in view he
dictates the death certificate that will make
the masquerade a permanent institution. In
of its three acts “The Masquerader” is
a capital play when one gets used to the
audacity of the plot. And in the garden
scene it would be not too bad if Miss Ritchie
were the right sort of actress for the char-
acter of the minor morphia maniac who has
led Chilcote astray. But she isn’t. Chil-
cote’s evil-designing mistress amounts to a
big blot on the performance. Except that
she wears golden hair the fair impersonatress
of the difficult little part doesn’t offer one
a notion of it. _ On the other hand, Miss
Thais Lawton is persuasive in the very
difficult character of Chilcote’s wife, and
would be almost convincing if she spoke a
little faster and were less prone to the use
of an artificial tremor. A condition of sup-
pressed hysteria is natural to Mrs. Chilcote
under the circs., and every lovely woman
is expected to assume more emotion than she
feels when engaged in wheedling. But Mrs.
C. is a practical sort of person in some
respects, and after six years of disappoint-
ment with John she wouldn’t be always
tremoring in her speech with him.
5k * * *
At Melbourne Royal nobody will be able
to hang his harp on The Willow Tree after
Friday. It is a pretty little show with
beautiful, up-to-date lighting effects, and
only a little too much profusion of artificial
florality in the foreground. But the per-
formance never grips tin* public ilnagina-
tion. It never even catches fleeting fancy
by the toe. The figure first presented is an
unmistakable doll, and its association with 1
the live figure of Miss Macdonell is plainly
theatrical. The play is a very poor plagiar-
“Pygmalion and Galatea.” A revival
of “Outcast” on Saturday will run for a
week. And then “Peter Pan.”
5k 5k s[:
“Samples,” at Melbourne Tivoli, has
arrived at the last-nights period of its life,
when kind friends are expected to gather
round the bedside and soothe the end of the
dear old thing.
Billie Seaton, accompanied by her clever
pianist, is still laboring songfully at Mel-
bourne Bijou; also Bertram and Raymond
are persisting with their strange present-
ment of Australian up-country character.
Among the newcomers Leywood and Norell,
formerly of the Tiv., are bright and amusing
in a conventional kind of sketch. Baron
does well enough in the ventriloquial line,
whilst Plirozo, a figure introduced by a lady,
is alleged to be a mystery. A rather frosty
mystery, anyhow.
The brooding mystery of Egypt lingers
over “The Price Mark,” featuring Dorothy
Dalton, at Hoyt’s in Melbourne this week.
The yarn begins with a colored affaire in
Cairo, out of which springs an avenger with
a long-distance Hate who pokes his knife
opportunely into the conclusion. The second
film, “Clever Mrs. Carfax,” is mostly Julian
Eitinge in one of his adroit female imperso-
nations. Julian figures this time as a bogus
presswoman who lures a crook to his doom b r
a fraudulent smile.
“Shirley Kaye” is throwing Clara
Kimball Young into fashionable relief at
Melbourne Majestic this week. As a dash-
ing young debutante in High Finance, Clara
bests opponents with an ease that adds to
the sting of her victories. In “I Love You,”
which follows, Alma Rubens inspires love
in three men, only to discover that there is
n.i luck in odd numbers beyond one. Her
trouble is that an indiscreet past threatens
to lap over and submerge her present; but
Providence, which loves a cheerful liver,
saves her Good Name before the last reel
runs out.
** * *
A first-in-AuStralia trial has been given in
Adelaide to two plays that are fresh here
rather than new anywhere. “Her Wedding
Day,” at the Tivoli, is sound, old-fashioned
melodrama. Ida Gresham is the usual hero-
ine without a backbone, and the villainous
Fitzherbert finds two obstacles between them,
lie switches off Guy Hastings without much
difficulty, but the girl merely marries Dunbar
instead. However, he gambles, and is there-
fore easily ruined by any villain. After
which all the characters are removed to
Cuba, where ,the Spariish-American fight
straightens, things out. The other play is
on the screen at West’s, “The Zeppelin’s
Last Raid,” a thrilling thing. The bombing
scenes are wonderfully faked, and the up-
in-the-air details seem genuine.
How good a show-town Adelaide now is
may be judged by dropping in, any “off”
afternoon, at the Majestic and seeing the
house packed by the Fuller pantomime, as
it has been twice a day for a fortnight.
Where all the people come from during busi-
ness hours is their own business. The house
has now gone back to variety. The Royal
also has had three big weeks of “So Long.
Lctty,” the Boccaccio story with nearly all
its teeth drawn, and similar frivolities.
Maud Fane is always entertaining. Connie
Ediss is a fine actress underneath the exag-
gerations that get the easy laugh, Madge
Elliott a delightful dancer, and Harry
Wotton (a local man) a good actor who is
getting a chance at last. “Joan the Woman”
is a stirring picture at Wondergraph, and
Kipling and O. Henry make a good combi-
nation at the Pav.
Another widow is blessing the N. S.
Wales Testator’s Family Maintenance Act —
and probably bracketing with it the name of
Arthur Griffith, who never let this question
rest until there was a law on the subject.
When Thomas Howlett, grazier, of Bre-
warrina, died in 1916 he left an estate worth
£8894 and a will which cut it up amongst
his five children. For the good wife and
mother who had never had a health trip or
a holiday in all her 19 years of married life
or any money to spend on herself there was
this: “I have intentionally omitted my wife,
Margaret Howlett, from any benefit under
this my last will, owing to her having aban-
doned and neglected to take care of my
children, although I had made provision for
her doing so.” His Honor Street summed
it up as “an undeserved slur cast upon a
good mother by an ill-tempered husband.”
pointed out that she had helped to make the
money and made an order that the widow
should have £2OO for this year, with annual
rises of £25 until £3OO is reached. Memo
for the Dying: Do the decent thing; if you
don’t, the Law Will Do It for You.


lull
■
if
Km
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of purity of a freshly-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There,-is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
your own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any HotSl in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER, ,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
“Sliprail”: In the wild, roaring days of
the first week of Anzac half a dozen tearful
Turk prisoners were momentarily expecting
to he cooked for breakfast. Suddenly their
outlook on life brightened; their sentries
became affability itself and the grub was
such as a brigadier alight feel peckish at. In
GIVING IT A NAME.
“That silly ass persists In calling mg tur-
keese ring a toorquwaaz. What do you
call it, Ikenstein?"
“Veil, my poy, speakin' as an egspert, I call
it glass.”
the fulness of time—about three days—our
deep scheme was deemed mature and at dusk
the sentries hurriedly took the prisoners
around to one of the flanks and,
pointing the way back to their own
lines, gave them a start off. That
night the staff was jubilantly poking
itself in the ribs and gleefully making pre-
parations for a great influx 6f voluntary
prisoners. From-his dug-out one of the offi-
cers espied at daylight the next morning the
same old six prisoners laboriously trudging
towards their prison camp, each smilingly
carrying an enormous bundle of firewood!
“Mac-ko” : The first Sunday at sea on our
trooper, Meekun, the C. of E. padre, was
still unfit for duty. So the Colonel offered
to officiate., and all those of us who hadn’t
a valid excuse were lined up in the saloon.
The O.C. opened the prayer-book, twisted
the ends of his moustache, glared round at
the congregation and waded in: “ ‘Dearly
beloved, the Scripture movetli us’—Ser-
geant, who’s making that row at the back?
See to those men behind there, and keep ’em
quiet.” Some chaps who had escaped the
roping-in were having a small game of crown
and anchor on one of the hatches; and their
voices filtered through, and mingled with
the O.C.’s powerful exhortations: “What’s
the little di done? What’s the name of the
game done? Leaving the' little heart for
the old man? Two boh a tail—two bob a
tail. I’ll bet 10 bob he nobs ’em.” Any lull
in the proceedings was brisked up by another
card party: “I’ll make it two bob for cards”
—“four bob” —“what ’ave yer got? Take
it, Bill, the dog’s yours.” “Sergeant!”
roared the temporary parson, “what creed
are those men up there? Here am I tear-
ing my throat to ribbons preaching the Gos-
pel, while those illegitimates are disturbing
the Sunday peace. Go up. Sergeant, and
take their blanky names. They’ll fetch 10
bob each.” Then, catching an amused gleam
in the one and several eye of his congrega-
tion —“E-rrr-hup-rrr Dismiss !”
* * * •
The Board of a N. S. Wales country
hospital, two days drive from the nearest
railway and Sawbones, not long ago handed
the matron her travelling ticket. Minister-
ing angels are scarce in that vicinity and
this one had capably run the show single-
handed, converting herself several times a
day into everything from resident doctor to
scullerymaid. The chief witness against
her, when asked by the Board if the matron
habitually drank, guardedly replied: “She
may or may not.” Recently the Board got
hogged in trouble, and the late matron’s
genius was recalled. She was appealed to
and asked to advise if a certain course
would meet the difficulty. Back came the
reply: “It may nr may not.”
* * * *
“.Country Ped.” : The Bulletin (11/4/TS)
asks: “Should the child come within the
influence of professional
distributors of ‘know-
ledge’ before he reaches
the age at which the
great majority leave
school nowadays?” As
a “professional distri-
butor of ‘knowledge’ ” I
know that if a child
(what w r e teachers term
an' average child) comes
to school at eight in-
stead of the usual six,
that child takes 12
months to reach Grade
111 instead of two
years, and would very
likely reach Grade IV
within the period only
for the time wasted in
learning fripperies. I
have one such —a girl—
in my school at the pre-
sent time. She will be
in Grade IV in less
than six months’ time,
so reaching in 21
months what in the
ordinary course takes
three years. This one
example (and there are-
many similar) serves to
show that children can
start school later than usual and get through
the State-school programme by 14. Then
why should they have to start so young?
“Bion”: “Bombardier” (B. 25/4/T8)
makes a poise, rightly or wrongly, because
lie had to pay a proportion of the value of
stores, etc., lost and damaged on the voyage.
As a late member of the crew of a transport
I resent his implication that the blankets
found their way to the crew’s quarters, be-
cause they “could not possibly be stowed in
a man’s kitbag.” Blankets do disappear,
and there is no mystery about the cause. A
few are dumped with the idea of drowning
the inhabitants, and I have seen dozens torn
up to make mops for the hospital; but the
majority are blown overboard in windy
weather. As to whether the troops should
pay I say nothing, though I imagine fair
wear and tear is allowed the owners in the
price fixed under the charter. I doubt whether
there are more losses and breakages im a
ship when used as a transport than when
she is in the ordinary passenger trade, and
I never heard of a special bob a head being
collected from* passengers.
* * * *
The Assistant Adjutant-General has been
parading the staff at Victoria Barracks,
Sydney. The men in the pay office were
THE CONFESSIONS OF A CADDIE.
THE GOLFER: “Now, clear out or I’ll hit you with one of these clubs!”
THE IMP: “Garni You wouldn't know which one to use.”
lined up the other day and informed that
“whether employed actively or department-
ally the principle is the same. They are
soldiers, and as such are expected to be”
etc., etc. It is time this nonsense was
knocked on the head. Half the dreadful
muddle in the Department has this stupid
idea at the bottom of it. No private em-
ployer, requiring an efficient clerk, wants
him to be anything hot a clerk. He doesn’t
want him to be a butler, or to think of him-
self as an undertaker. When a commission
was appointed lately to inquire into the
business side of the Defence Department its
three members didn’t start (o think of them-
selves as field-marshals or colonels: they
kept in mind that they were business men,
and probably didn’t care two straws whether
they had the top button of their vest fas-
tened or not. If clerks have to be soldiers
you mus have a soldier in command of
them—and that’s where the trouble comes
in Also, that is where' inefficiency comes
in, with the muddle and waste that ineffi-
ciency means.
“8.M.”: Golonel Trivial was testing the
intelligence of his staff in his own quaint,
way and handed them the following question
(the answer to be written) : “What is’the
best way to communicate with the lines from
an aeroplane?” Captain Waratah was very
fed.up with everything, and wrote: —
As this war is likely to last some years, I suggest
that you mate a homing pigeon with a galah. The
offspring yvill have the homing instinct, and can be
taught to talk and convey the messages.
Nobody is- backing Waratah to win the M.C.
while he stays with Trivial.
“Copabella” : This inhuman speeding-up
pervades everything; even our local Metho-
■dist Bethel has started to taylorise itself.
A girl friend of mine who was married on
Easter Monday received a friendly note
from the church’s Mothers’ Society last week
telling her she ought to join !
* * * • *'
From a padre of very long service (he is
back at the Front again, after ai trip
home) :
I left my regiment in Flanders eight days before
my boat sailed. “Drinks all round” to wish me
luck. Then in a camp in England with its well-
run “wet” canteens. Then on a troopship sailing
under regulations framed at Australian “mothers’
meetings,” which meant that the ship was “dry.”
Men so restricted had been guilty of excesses on
previous ships at their first port of call. So every
hotel, w'as closed, just to give a monopoly to sly-
grog shops. The latter had their touts to meet
the soldiers, who had leave every day from 9 a.m.
till 11 p.m. Now a sly-grog shop makes those lads
pay dearly for their drink; the drink is usually
bad, maddening stuff; outside Australia an accom-
panying industry, of such a place is invariably a
brothel; everything is i n .favor of those brothels
being diseased brothels. Conclusion: The wowsers
of Australia are responsible for a large percentage
of the venereal disease among our soldiers. And a
Commission is sitting to determine whether the
Government, having closed the pubs, will open some
of its own and control them itself, as we do in France
and England. And some chaplains, with the
authority of their calling, backed by their pre-
sumed military experience “on active service,” are
giving evidence against at that Commission. The
military history of those persons should be known,
and it should be known if they were considered
over here to have been ever intended either by
nature or by grace to know, to influence, to help
men, Or were they considered merely “shirkers” in
khaki”? '
TIME AND PLACE.
“ Ai'm awfully glad the waw's ovah in
Fwance.”
“What are you talking about? The war
isn't even beginning to end.”
“Ai didn’t say it was. Ai merely said Ai was
glad it was ovah in Fwance.”
FRANCE— 1918.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tangled smoke-wreaths grovel on the plain ;
They weave fantastic patterns in the rain,
And ever seem to hurry in their train
Faint echoes of a distant convent bell,
Where some old priest, made bolder with the
night,
Crawls slowly from his devastated cell,
And keeps an only half-remembered rite,
With eye cocked wary for an errant shell,
And cassock girded for an instant flight.
The bell tolls slowly, in a sober vein ;
And yet it l ings a message through the rain
Which half blots out grey Death upon the plain.
Some say it rings the end of Wrong and Sin ;
Some say it is the Herald of God’s War;
To me it sends no thoughts but those of kin.. . .
A station on the Darling ; through the door
The mellow beat of horse-bells drifting in,
Which, hearing once, I did not think of more.
The convent bells have ceased their solemn strain;
The priest lias scuttled to his lair again....
But still the horse-bells murmur in the rain.
N.S.W.
KENNETH SLESSOR.


SHIRLEY
KHAKI
SHIRTS
to measure.
A lion for wear; practically untearable
and indestructible material. Just what
the man on the land needs for every-
day purposes. Made to special order
with two pockets, as picture, 9/- each;
or ONE pocket, 8/6. PATTERNS FREE, a
PIKE
BROTHERS
LIMITED,
BRISBANE.
?r
Though a cold in the head seems a simple thing
’Tis the cause of discomfort and suffering;
You have inflamed nostrils and aching eyes,
And incessant sneezing your temper tries;
Tis a weary affliction that all have endured.
It is easily caught and easily cured;
That is to say, quite easy and sure
Y lien using Woods' Great Peppermint Cure.
-Advt
sd
Electric FANS
All Standard Types
in Stock =====
l British General Electric Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE WELLINGTON, N.Z.
257 Clarence Street. 590 Bourke Street. 8 Willeston Street.
Some of Billjim’s matrimonial allies have
already reached Australia, while there are
many brides on the other side fran-
tically searching camps and interviewing
amused O.C’s. in their fruitless search for
the missing khaki owner Of an extensive emu
farm in Woolloomooloo. One of these dis-
tracted females recently found an O.C. will-
ing to listen to her tale of how she had
married an Australian soldier during his
four days’ leave. He had gone back to camp
and she insistently demanded maintenance.
To prove her story she produced a marriage
certificate verifying her story that she had
married Private Dinkum, and the ceremony
had been witnessed by Private Cobber!
“Pills”: My own experience of “barrack
room charges” is similar to “Bombardier’s.”
On our last transport over 1000 returned
soldiers were charged Is. each for shortages
and breakages on the voyage. Without com-
menting on the injustice of - this charge,
it may be of interest to the Australian pub-
lic to know that there is no record of this
transaction in the soldiers’ paybooks. The
soldier is asked to sign for 30s. received,
whereas he is handed only 295. I have
seen soldiers proffer their paybooks to have
this charge noted, but under no circumstance
apparently is it done. Now where is that
odd shilling per soldier (over £5O in this
case)recorded? The most charitable suspicion
amongst soldiers is that it is money screwed
out of troops (sick men often) to fatten fat
owners; the least charitable I won’t men-
tion. The most sinister aspect about the
whole affair is that under no circumstances
can the soldier secure a receipt; in fact, the
O.C. refuses to accept responsibility and
states that it is not a military charge,
but a shipping charge. If the latter is the
case, it is strange that the officers in com-
mand of troops risk a riot every time this
kind of charge is made, for on every occa-
sion there is opposition from the boys who
feel they are being taken down.
* * * *
“0.K.” : Melbourne Sabbatarians' are col-
lecting their forces for a conflict with the
Red Cross brigade. The Red Crossers are
mostly in favor of running picture-shows on
Sunday nights for the benefit of the Cause,
whilst the wowsers protest that no cause on
earth can justify gatherings of entertain-
ment-seekers on the Sabbath. ' They approve
of special Red Cross services in church, with
incidental * collections, but screen-pictures
and payments at the door are things of the
Devil —on the Sabbath. From the cheerful
sinners’ point of view the present moment
is opportune for restoring picture-shows to
the sphere of usefulness from which they
were ejected by Obadiah and the Brethren,
and it seems likely that most of the muni-
cipal councils in the Melbourne radius will
be sufficiently wicked to sanction the new
war-charity move. Then will the wowsers
have to threaten to withdraw their patron-
age and support from the Red Cross move-
mint, in which case Obadiah, who is an
unctuous Imperialist ns a rule, will have to
be told that his piety is unpatriotic in prac-
tice and his policy on all-fours with enemy
alienism.
SILENCE, PLEASE!
SHE: “I won't have you saying those awful
things about the 'Kaiser."
HE: “Why, you're not a pro-Hun, are you?”
SHE: “No, but you shan't say things behind
a person’s back that you don't dare say
to his face.”
TOO BAD.
“We had to have dear little Reggie's pretty golden curls cut off."
“Oh, that was too had.”
“Yes, I couldn't stand the little pet's language when l combed the tangles out.”
“Hamer” : Some, at least, of the girls in
Australia whose sweethearts have married
Englishwomen can thank the improvidence
that looks after a soldier’s mails for the
tragedy. Billjim went adventuring with a
heart that remained faithful in spite of any,
or only very infrequent, written word from
his beloved ; he lived patiently through days
when there were no regular mails, and didn't
expect much correspondence. But lie wanted
something to carry on with. “Tragedies of
the Letters That Did Not Come'’ would fill
a few volumes. I know one man who used
to talk of little except his wife and child.
The sickening disappointment of mails that
brought no letters at last got him down, and
•n “a scoot” he went far over the edge.
Write, write, write!
* * * #
The N.S.W. Congregational body has
unanimously denounced the draw-
ing of lots for prizes in connection
with the War Loan, the chief
denouncer suggesting that this sort
of thing would make Gladstone
turn in his grave. Which was an
impious thing to say, for Unless
the church doctrine is a baseless
dream the revolving power of
Gladstone isn’t in the grave but
in a better land. And it was
illogical. There is an interval
between death and burial—in some
cold countries quite a lengthy one.
During this interval the turning
over of the deceased when a lottery
happened must attract attention.
Some good people—quite as good
as Gladstone —are awaiting burial
when every great Melbourne Cup
sweep or other sin takes place,
and unless they make a point of
turning when unobserved and then
righting themselves in a hurry the
matter couldn’t escape mention in
the press. So it boils down to
this: the parson or other person
who says the dead turn over when
a gamble is in progress may be a
fraud or may not, but at any rate
he is a very reckless asserter. And
if he isn’t a fraud then the revolv-
ing corpse is an ass. The careful
concealment of its protest proves
that.
The way of the reformer is hard. A
Sydney butcher tried to put the nutritious
horse into circulation as heifer, just as so
many people have for years been putting
Austi’alian boots into circulation as “im-
ported.” But by hard luck an official
noticed that the animal had more ribs than
even a young cow should have, and the Law
started to prance on its hat.
“J.L.H.” : The queerest reason for voting
“No” came to light in Palestine. One young-
ster wouldn’t listen to reason. “No "hope,”
'he affirmed; “they’ll only send the old man
out, and he’ll be always trailin’ round after
me and jawin’ about one thing and another.”
“Algy R.”: Two
mules had strayed
from our lines here
on Salisbury Plain,
and Lance-jack Bill-
jim and I set out to
find them. We had
ridden for an hour
or more, and al-
though we made
numerous inquiries
from rustic “Jarges”
our search was
muleless. A ’plane
which had struck
trouble with its
engine spiralled
down to within a
ston e's-throw of
where we had pulled
up to consider. Bill
cantered over, out of
curiosity, I thought.
Then I heard him
open up: “You didiv
see a coupla mules
strayin’ about while
you were up, did
you?” The superiah
pilot looked up from
his engine, and after
a moment’s pause,
to suppress his sur-
prise and indigna-
tion at being ad-
dressed so familiarly
by a mere lance-
corporal, jerked out:
“No, Ai did not!”
and resumed his
search in the engine.
But Bill never
noticed a snub. “You
miarht have a look round when your rup agen,
will you?”
Gunner Someone from Somewhere :
We are “resting” behind the line in a little vil-
lage assisting of a church, a couple of estaminets,
a few farms and a graveyard. The graveyard con-
tains most of the population. We sleep in a barn,
rise early, feed and water the horses, have breakfast,
and at 9.30 hold a parade, which is easily the most
important function of the day. We line up -and the
sergeants report “All correct.” The Sergeant-Major
salutes the Orderly-Officer, and the Orderly-Officer
salutes the Sergeant-Major. Also he salutes the
Second-in-Command, and the Second-in-Command
salutes back. Next he salutes the Captain, and the
Captain salutes the Second, and tells him to carrv
on. Upon this the Second salutes the Orderly-
Officer, and the Orderly-Officer salutes the Second and
tells the Sergeant-Major to carry on. The Sergeant-
Major salutes the Orderly-Officer and the Orderlv-
Officer salutes the Sergeant-Major and then the
Sc-rgeant-Major tells the sergeants to carry on. Eventu-
ally the common lot do the carrying on; and so
we win the war. This saluting and springing to
attention and springing back again breaks the mono-
tony of things. When the day’s work is over we do
some more saluting and springing about, and then
we are free to leap about on our own account. If
we leap into an estaminet we buy a weird liquid
with a yellow taste. It is called beer, and is the
homely drink of the French. Nobody save a henr
would adopt it as a homely or any other kind of
drink. There is also sold the famous “vin blong,”
and every “vin blong” is worse than the last. But
there are other things to cheer us. We have a
\ .M.C.A. and a canteen. The canteen sometimes
sells good English beer; and the Y. Emma sells
candles and coffee, and the candles are not bad.
OUT OF EVIL, ETC.
“He is awfully rich, since his wife died.”
“Really! I didn't, know she had money."
"She hadn't. But his new wife has."
A DIRGE OF THE DEEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The boat went up and the boat went down on the
wet, wild, lonely sea.
“Well, Bill, me lad,’’ said Joe, “this looks a dashed
rum go to me!
Bust it!” he groaned in a ghastly voice, “me feet
are soaked right through,
And never in all me born days did 1 feel so frightful
blue!”
The boat went up and the bout went down, and Bill
he gave a groan.
“In nine more months more or so,” he said, in a
mournful monotone,
“They’ll launch a ship at Williamstown—one ship
at least,” he said.
“But then, o’ course, good gum!” growled Joe,
“we’ll both be drownded dead.”
Joe eased his burnt and blistered hands and scanned
. the heaving sea.
“They said you could ha’ built ’em long and long
ago,” said he.
“The thing’s a gross and callous lie!” snapped Bill.
“Malicious, too ! —•
Completely false and groundless, Joe. Besides, it
isn’t true!”
“1 -would,” said Joe, “a ship might come a-riding
down the main
To put us off this cockle-shell on dry land once
aga-a-ain!”
The great deep heaved them up, up, u-u-up and swung
them down, until
“I wish, oil how I wish,” said Joe, “you had ha’
built ’em, Bill!”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


THE SCOFFERS.
"The enlistment of volunteers for Australia’s Home Defence is looked upon in Labor sections as ‘an artful dodge.'" — News item.
THOSE WHO ABE ABOUT TO GET IT IN THE NECK: “Gam, you can’t kid us!"


WfPiv fgm
HMDr« Mom
h/gNyouCAH
Qt'R/'fctt
£y &r%wih 'Qisy.
Team $ y gaft :
I VHbtßsktjfify
L°
■mtdo p.
■
Th £" e^Tru f.
wsr p'a p u 1
I 4? s %
Wi
UHlt&rof j
?
;s
/pi i
“Look hew, hoes, £ hereby resign. I’m goto* to take up teaching cartooning;
P«pl^/* <iP<>ll^tnC * 1 • wa ® thinking I might put you at the head of my list of
This Is wot we calls in the trade the “He-—• She” stile of IS-colum comic.. . Any
old gag will «t it. 8m below. .
“The purooot of art under my correspondent system will not in the least
interfere with your other domestic dontles.’’
(Extract from Prospectus.)
MW^Un-
i 7? {wGHkt
A CRITICISM. —lour drawing called “Budding
Manhood” Is chockfult of promise. Don't put so
many hairs In the mostaah, and make the ears
longer.—See dotted lines. *
SHE: “If you are tired of me so soon
what made you propose to me?"
HE: “Drink. I took it to get my
courage up.”' .
HR: “I wonder what hrave fellow
will get those socks you are knit'
ting?"
SHE: “You never will, because you
ain’t game to Inlist. Y'ouTl die
," with eohi feet f”
A HINT TO MY STCBJ3NTS.
Now h&r*» is the stile at joke whot the JBditor at
“The Bulletin*' will always jump at.
(Sometimes he jumps at the teller
g| that, otters it as well.) See
Mow,
c/eS/ft e
H.S. : Your deskew for a fly-paper
poster is beneath criticism. There
wasn't no arf-erowu inclosed in
it.—H.f.
IKE HAM; Your cartoon, “Defence, Not
Defiance,” is humorous hut original. 1
would segest that you sign your pictures
more legibly, otherwise they might escape
the attention of the casual reader. —EU,
RECREATION IN ANATOMY.
Draw » body inside this shot of clothes and sec what you
can make of it, WT Anatomy is extra.—H.TJ.
THE EDITOR; “You know, of course, that o«r paper k Widely read?'*
DISAPPOINTED CONTRIBUTOR: “Yes, but it is not so widely red as your
noee!” ' < „ , ,;•
HIGH ART AT LONG RANGE.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England, It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
By Special Appointment to His Excellency Lord Islington, ex-Governor of New Zealand
Nurse Ellen Everett, Medical and Electrical Masseuse, writes her opinion to Clements Tonic:—
Wellington Electrical and Medical Institute,
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD Aitken Street, Wellington, ist May, igiy.
“Asa Specialist in Neurasthenia and Nerve Work I find Clements Tonic
one ofi my best nerve foods to recommend to my patients T
Yours truly ,
I (Nurse)
For the relief of Indigestion, Loss of Sleep, Anaemia, Constipation, Sick Headache, Brain=fag and Debility get it to=day.
All Chemists and Stores sell it throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Reported that the Ivaiser is now com-
pletely obsessed by'the notion that he is God.
The delusion seems to be rather common
among nersons named William.
Memories of the most successful perform-
ance ever staged in the Melbourne Divorce
Court were revived by the death the other
day of Vivian Parker, who had been a sick
man for a long time. He was very popular
among those who go down to the sea in
expensive yachts, and acted as skipper yf
many of the craft, including Governor
Brassey’s Helen and Charley Wallace’s
Sayonara.
Died, as he naturally would, in an Aus-
trian prison, Gabriel Princip, a man who
didn’t make history, though he was suspected
of doing it. He was the Austrian subject
who shot the Austrian heir-apparent in Aus-
trian territory, whereupon came the ultima-
tum to Servia and the war. If Princip had
never lived the war would probably have
started because the Hun didn’t like the way
King Peter wore his hair, or, as in Belgium,
it would have started whether the King had
hair or not. For the Hun thought the time
was ripe.
THE ONLY WAY.
THE LADY AT THE REGISTRY OƑICE : “Can
you let me have a maid that I can keep
in the country?"
THE DITTO OF THE DITTO : “Not unless you
keep her in irons!"
“Mulga” Taylor, who lately climbed to
the Speaker’s chair in the Westralian Assem-
bly, is a much mellower Mulga than he was
when he went to gaol for his part in the big
Queeensland shearers’ strike. He was the
arch-militant when he first went West. Once
when someone taunted him during a party
debate with the fact that Labor had even
got a barber into Parliament (meaning
Holman, whose sign hftng out at Cue),
Mulga reefed out through his whiskers:
“Yes, we have got a barber in, and we could
get his pole in as well if we wanted to.”
A busy little woman is Sara Lewis, secre-
tary of the Melbourne Female Hotel and
Caterers’ Employees’ Union. A “domestic”
before taking over the organising, she one
night stood up in the Trades Hall and called
her fellow-delegates a lot of old fossils.
Expulsion followed, but she bobbed up again
later. Sara is a regular soap-box orator
round Melbourne, and her latest activity will
take the Trades Hall into the dining-
room. She has just succeeded in persuading
that body to help her in the job of organis-
ing Mary Ann.
The first manufacturer of gunpowder in
Australia was Robert Cooper, of Sydney,
grandfather of the present Chief Justice of
Queensland. That was in 1829 or there-
abouts.
CAIN AND ABEL.
“And Australia brought forth two sons
called Cain and Abel. And in the process
of time they made a burnt offering, each of
the fruits of his labor. Now the smoke of
Cain’s offering ran along the ground, while
that of Abel’s ascended straight up. Where-
fore Cain was wroth and compassed the
death of his brother by refusing him help in
his need. And Cain became a slave and a
driller unto the Hun."
McGarvie Smith deserved very well of his
country when, some years back, he dis-
covered that good friend of the stockman—
anthrax vaccine. Now he earns more cheers
for making a present of the formula to the
Ma State. Not only will this good Aus-
tralian not accept a copper for the .recipe
which a war patriot would have felt justified
in asking half a million for, but he is bestow-
ing his time and experience (also without
fee) in showing the Agricultural Depart-
ment’s vets how to brew the stuff.
“Groper”: The recent mention in war
items of the Military Medal being awarded
Trooper Jack Francis in France for con-
spicuous bravery, regalls what was probably
the first court-martial held at Gal-
lipoli. Joining as a farrier in the
10th Light Horse, F raneis, who
came from Narrogin (W.A.), was
supposed to be an onlooker at the
Landing. The sight of so many
getting off in the boats was. how-
ever, too much for him. And he
was presently in the thick of it.
P’our days later he was escorted on
board again under arrest for being-
in the wrong place at the right
time, and was duly court-mar-
tialled. The O.C. nearly patted
him on the head as he advised him not to do
it again. Jack was then barely 21.
Colin McCulloch, killed in action the
other day, was an old boy of the Anglican
Grammar School at North Sydney, and had
nearly finished a law course at Sydney Uni.
when ejectment proceedings against the
Kaiser began. McCulloch and some of his
mates got the date of their final exam,
advanced in order to enlist; then, having
collected his LL.B. degree, he made one
formal appearance before the Supreme Court
to be admitted to the Bar, and hopped
aboard. His first fighting was against
pneumonia in a Cold Country training-camp;
but he routed that enemy and got to France
in time for Bullecourt, where hie won a com-
mission. Wounded at PPooge, he had not
long got back from hospital when the Last
Post sounded at 25.
Ilarry Holmes, one of the few survivors
from the torpedoing of the steamer Oronsa,
is a S’Australian. —one of Jack Virgo’s young
men —who bulks large in the Y.M.C.A. For
many years he was its General Sec. at Wel-
lington (M.L.). After an Australian tour
in 1913 he became National Sec. in S’Africa,
and had charge of the work behind Botha’s
lines in the German East-African campaign.
Later he toiled in France', and just before
he dodged D. Jones was expounding to Uncle
Sam concerning Y.M.C.A. matters and the
wah generally.
Lieut. Archie Fisken, a cousin of the late
Captain Harold Wanliss; a Ballarat boy
who won the D.S.O. in his first action, has
contributed a Military Cross to the family
record. He is a nephew of Chief Justice
Irvine, whose wife is a sister of the mothers
of these two soldiers. Archie Fisken is an
old Ballarat College and Geelong Grammar
boy.
“Is there never a Chink in the world
above?” Jean Ingelow twittered. Well, the
chances are in favor of it now that Louis
Ah Mouy has gone west at the age of 92.
A builder by trade,
he came in from
China in 1851 under
contract to erect
houses for Captain
Gle n d e nning, the
master of the ship
in which he trav-
elled, and he claimed
to be the first Chi-
nese to land in Vic-
toria. His were
among the earliest
buildings in South
Melbourne and Wil-
liamstown. A great,
speculator, Ah Mouy
opened many mines
in the Yea district.
Marrying a woman
of his own nation-
ality, he left seven
sons, three daugh-
ters and 12 grand-
children. One son
is a lawyer, another
an architect. A
grandson is an elec-
trical engineer. Though most of the family
remain in Melbourne, others are as far apart
as Hongkong. Calcutta and America.
Frank Rolland, now Scotchbyterian padre
with Billjim in France, had plenty of harden-
ing experience before he left with the ammu-
nition waggons. During his strenuous youth
he was with the Australian Inland Mission,
having Oodnadatta as his headquarters and
living most of the time on top of a horse.
Dad was old-timer W. S. Rolland, of the
Prahran (Vic.) tabernacle.
“Mustard Gold”; The Westralian Gold-
fields warden is a tame curate compared
with Finnerty and the others who adminis-
tered mining law a few years back. Now, in
the dual capacity of Warden and R.M., his
work is mostly dealing with the local drunk
or handing it out to the hard-to-convict gold
thief. Walter, of Ivalgoorlie, catches the
odium of the well-organised fraternity for
his sternness when dealing with an accused
“lifter.” But he is small in the limelight,
keeps up the tone of his English University,
and anchors off
duty among the
cronies of Plan-
nan’s Club, where
Finnerty improved
the shining hour
with tales won-
drous and strange
in other days.
Gibbons (North
Coolgardie), Croc-
kett (Murchison),
Geary (Gascoigne)
and Clifton
(Ravens tliorpe)
unobtrusively earn
fbeir stipends.
Nearly all of them
made a bid for the
job of Police Com-
miss i o n er, vice
Hare, retired; but
a plain, unimpres-
sive John in the
person of Connell
carried enough
guns to secure the
post.
JUSTICE
N. K. EWING,
Tas. Puisne Judge.
Gone west at 84, Michael Levy, said to be
the first regular drummer on the roads in
Australia. Pie came from London with a
shipment of merchandise 60 years ago. when
Parramatta was the terminus of the rail-
way.
“N or M’s” send-off to an old friend :
Dead at Hobart, aged 73, R. M. Johnston, Govern-
ment Statistician, a man of wide sympathies and
learning. Son of a crofter on Black Isle, Moray
Firth, he was born in a small fishing village, and
made his way with only such advantages as a strong
A SAVER.
MRS. FOOTLITES : “You don't give me
presents now like you used to before we
were married."
MR. FÒTLITES : “Now, look here, my dear,
did you ever hear tell of a fisherman
giving bait to the fish, he had caught?"
brain and a lovable disposition gave him. At the
village school the old dominie, who was proud of his
clever pupil, lent him books. Hugh Miller, stone-
mason of Cromarty, which is near by, became his
hero and exemplar in the business of winning
through; and Miller’s books had much to do with
Johnston’s early interest in geology. The ambitious
lad first became a telegraph-operator. Later he
worked on the Scottish railways, studying hard in the
evenings at the Andersonian, Glasgow. Coming to
Australia (the first vessel on which he started was
wrecked on the coast of Ireland), he was on the
railways in Victoria for a time. He crossed to Tas-
mania in ’7O, and there he found the niche from
which the offer of the position of Statistician, first
of N. S. Wales and then of the Commonwealth, could
not tempt him. Outside his bread-and-butter line he
did valuable work. Fisheries, technical education,
geology, music, sports—he was interested in all, and
was a Fellow of, many scientific societies, from the
Royal of Tasmania to the Linnsan of London. Among
his scientific, social and economic books, the “Sys-
tematic Account of the Geology of Tasmania,” pub-
lished by the State Government in ’BB, is the stan-
dard. But while this generation lasts he will be
remembered for his lovable personality as much as for
his achievements.
HIS BEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Thank God, I did my best to prevent these
atrocities.”I—The 1 — The Kaiser.
I did my best to stop them with a sword,
I called red flame to aid me in the task ;
It seemed that I had but to speak the word
And cringing nations must do all I ask.
If at the first loud warning that I gave
Armies had yielded tamely to my will,
There had not been this slaughter of the brave,
Nor all these graves behind the lines to fill.
I did my best. If they had let me" talk
And shape the world according to my plan,
These noble troops would but, have had to walk
Where lately, much to my dismay, they ran.
The world is too much with us, late and soon ;
It thrusts and bangs and will not be put out;
But had I owned the earth and sun and moon
We should have found it good without a doubt.
1 did my best. Atrocities abound
Wherever guns withstand me or the foe
Gets to close grips upon the shell-torn ground
With these'heroic souls who share my woe.
And more atrocities there yet shall be.
I feel them, feel them cold along the spine,
If these who bar our path get hold of Me
How long a rope, how short a shrift were mine!
I did my best. I yet will do my best.
Bring up the guns! Pour in the men to die!
Courage, strong souls! Within the grave is rest.
While one bold private lives we still must try.
Ach, these atrocities ! Add steel to steel!
Press home the charge no matter what the cost.
I did my best. Ach, Gott, how does it feel
To stand Chief Murderer when all is lost ?
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
AN ATTACK OF NERVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Captain von Salzmann, writing in the Vossische
Zeitung, mentions a few of the rumors that are
current in Berlin, and complains that the people are
beginning to lose their nerve.”
The arrogant Hun, the sneering Hun,
Who erst vos bound to vin,
And spoke of war as “lofely fun,”
Is waxing pale and thin ;
The swaggering Hun, the cheering Hun,
Has lost his fleshly curves;
Whilst thundering with his 10-mile gun
He’s wondering why the war’s not won—
The Hun who ghastly deeds has done
Has now “done in his nerves.”
The beautiful Day, the future Day,
Vhich English fools vill rue—
Der Day vhen dey der cost must pay—
Appears not yet in view.
The glorious Day, victorious Day,
Vhen Hindenburg’s reserves
Will march through London streets, and say
(Before they start to hack and slay) :
“Ve toldt you so!” in accents gay,
That promised Day has gone astray ;
The blundering Hun who vants the Sun,
And ne’er from duty sverves,
The thundering Hun we hate and shun,
Who killed the child and r.ped the nun,
Is wondering why the war’s not won—
The Hun who all things else has done
Has now “done in his nerves!”
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Ml
m
m
'Stt
sc*.
'w
m
m
m
%z
m
m
ry.
&
m
w
~-=y
—
E NO LONGER
anticipate the change
to Winter weather. It is
with us now, as evidence the
keenness of the early morn-
ing or the early evening air.
In either case, for wearing day or
night, man needs an overcoat to
ward off sudden storms of rain or
the wintry wind—both his comfort
and convenience are at stake.
And in an Austral Overcoat, under
all or any circumstances, is assured
not only the certain satisfaction of
man’s every need, but the realisation
also of his every expectation as to
perfect fit arid style.
Austral Overcoats
(READY-TO-WEAR)
45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 63/-, 75/-, 84/-, 95/-,
105/-, 125/, 136/-
MEN who live at a distance may judge the suitability
of an “Austral” Overcoat for their needs by sending for
“The Men’s Wear Book”—our new Art Catalogue for
the Autumn and Winter Season. All lines of Men’s
Wear are beautifully illustrated and described in eighty
pages. To any address throughout Australia we will
send “The Men’s Wear Book” post free on request.
Send for a copy to-day.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
TO
'id
484-490 GEORGE STREET
And 3-17 ROYAL ARCADE
New Branch Shop at 304-306 George Street
(Near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Dead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
BUYERS OX A SPECIAEEY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Eead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade*
s lag:s, etc., containing sold, silver, or lead
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
Registered
BHAS
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting
Ropes and other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and
High-pressure Stocks generally. Best Workmanship and material.
Quotations supplied.
A. MAYNE HERON, Manager.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
w
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society :
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Funds.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1904- 2,687,155 1,519,890 237,293 37,260 892,712
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 \ a( -c oi7
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 ) ’
1906- 2,932,755 1,645,681 259,769 29,818 ( QQn
Aid to Industrial Department 6,741 t ’
1907- 3,086,216 1,738,804 272,267 42,475 1,032,670
1908- 3,184,488 1,781,750 285,804 40,714 1,076,220
1909- 3,337,426 1,875,516 296,585 1,134,378
1910- 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
1911- 3,676,105 1,986,708 322,047 22,823 1,344,527
1912- 3,855,890 2,075,701 338,306 31,029 1,410,854
1913- 3,990,266 2,179,021 345,680 27,342 1,438,223
1914- 4,190,018 2,312.728 367,601 33,568 1,476,121
1915- 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374.595
1916.. 4,632,473 2,814,896 408,350 42,563 1,366,664
1917.. 4,863,710 3,436,591 434,986 37,566 954,567-
C. A. Elliott, who) has succeeded general-
manager Teece as actuary (11. W. Apperly
has followed him as general manager), puts
the most striking feature of the year in
two or three lines:—
The war claims amount to £945,507. For the
first time in the society’s history the total death
claims experienced have exceeded the amount pro-
vided for by the table used in estimating its lia-
bilities. The largest source of surplus has thus been
cut off.
Over 25 p.c. of the claims have arisen
through the war. But that is not the only
war charge. The outgoings on account of
taxes have moved this way:—
1913 . . £36,305 1916 . . £88,344
1914 .. 47,454 1917 .. 109,534
1915 . . 57,617
This, of course, affects another source of
surplus; and that means a further reduc-
tion of bonus. The custom of the A.M.P.
has been to include taxes among the exes.
Some other Australian offices, following the
plan pretty generally adopted in England, de-
duct taxes from interest and rent earnings. On
the A.M.P.’s plan its expense rate has
moved as follows :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905. .£8 15 6 p.c. 1912. .£8 15 5 p.c.
1907.. 8 16 5 „ 1913.. 8 13 3 „
1908. - 8 19 6 ~ 1914. . 8 15 5 „
1909.. 8 12 11 „ 1915.. 8 9 7 „
1910. .8 7 1,, 1916. . 8 16 3 „
1911. . 8 15 2 „ 1917. . 8 16 10 „ ■
Exclusive of taxes the exes, were £7 15s. Id.
in 1913 and £b 13s. lOd. last year; so that,
from this angle, the performance of last
year looks much better than that of four
years ago.
v But the expense rate calculated on the
basis of total income is open to various
objections, the most important being that
an expense rate may be improved by adopt-
ing a policy of doing little or nothing in the
pursuit of new business. Adopting the arbi-
trary method of charging renewal premiums
with 7 p.c. for management and single pre-
miums (annuities) with 3 p.c., and assum-
ing that the balance is the cost of new
business, we get these comparative results :
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiums. Premiums, penses. ness Cost.
1877 .. £353,345 £39,951 £58,905 99.6 p.c.
1887 .. 837,164 103,694 131,591 70.1 „
1897 .. 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87.4 „
1907 . . 1,791,403 163,348 272,267 85.6 „
1910 .. 2,022,470 185,559 291,775 79.8 ~
1913 . . 2,311,217 228,901 345,679 79.8 ~
1914 .. 2,421,995 219,570 367,601 89.6 „
1915 . . 2,521,634 232,768 369,172 82.5 „
1916 .. 2,634,290 276,803 408,350 80.6 „
1917 . . 2,777,533 261,363 434,986 91.7 „
In recent years 1013 showed the new busi-
ness got at the lowest cost, by this method
of reckoning. If taxes are excluded, for
that year the cost was 64 p.c., while for the
past year, on the same basis, it was only
40.7 p.c. Certainly there- was a small
amount of business which was got at a
much lower rate than usual; for policies
issued to men going on active service are
issued at a special rate of premium, the
usual thing being to charge 10 p.c. p.a.; and
the average premium in peace time is some-
where about 3i p.c. This means that where
the normal income would be £35 it is now
from this particular class of business £100;
and that tends to reduce the percentage cost
of getting new business. On the other (hand,
owing to the large number of young men
who are leaving the country in khaki, the
field for the insurance canvasser is reduced;
and the call for money for war purposes
has also contracted the insurance offering.
In 1913 this society issued 24,328 new
policies assuring £6.994,285; last year only
19.293 assuring £6,265,506. The average
premium in 1913 was £3 4s. 3d. p.c.; last
year it was £3 ss. Sd. p.c.
But while the society was hard hit by an
unfavorable death experience and greatly
increased taxation, it got a little back in
the shape of increased interest earnings:—
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1905.. £4 9 8 p.c. 1 1912. .£4 10 5 p.c.
1907.. 4 9 11 „ 1913.. 4 11 8 „
1908. . 4‘ 9 4 ~ I 1914. . 412 10 ~
1910. .4 9 8,. | 1916. . 417 5 „
1911.. 4 9 8 „ | 1917. . 419 4 „
That £4 19s. 4d. is 7s. Sd. p.c. better
than the 1913 figures; which means
that last year the society earned £138,000
more than it would have done with
the same funds in 1913. This more
than wiped out the increased taxation.
Further, the rapid increase in the holding
of public securities no doubt improved the
expense rate; for public securities don’t
require much managing.
The next table shows the distribution of
the funds (in this case the funds of the
Industrial Department —£1.296,116 —are in-
cluded ) :
1905. 1915. 1917.
Loans on mortgage.. 43.5 p.c. 36.7 p.c. 32.2 P.c.
Public securities . . 26.7 „ 41.3 ~ 47.8 ~
Premises . . . . 1.8 ~ 1.8 ~ 1.7 ~
Foreclosures .. .. 2.9 ~ 0.1 ~ 0.1 ~
Loans on policies .. 20.5 „ 16.3 ~ 14.8 ~
Other assets .. .. 4.6 „ 3.8 ~ 3.4 „
Before the end of the year the proportion
in public securities will be further increased;
for whereas the A.M.P. has subscribed for
£6,250 000 of War loans (including the
sixth), down to the end of 1917 it had paid
iqi only £3,545.842. It has also subscribed
£950,000 to Maoriland and British loans.
The divided surplus for the lasit full
year preceding the war was £975,881, an
amount only £30,000 in excess of the claims
that last year arose through the war. That
it should be possible to divide for the past
year £554.553, after putting by £120,000 for
contingencies, is thus a highly creditable per-
formance. A little of it. as shown above,
is due to improved earnings; but by far the
greater part comes from economies in man-
agement at a time when economies are very
difficult to make. The result is a bonus of
18.6 p.c. of the premiums. This compares
with the figures under normal conditions as
follows: —
188f?1893 (boomveavs). . 40.3 p.c. of premiums.
1893-1898 .. .. 34.1 „
1898-1903 .. .. 34.8 „
1903-1908 .. .. 36.0 „
1908-1913 .. .. 38.2 ~
1914 39.2 „
1915 30.8 ~
1916 30.1 „ ,
1917 18.6 ~
The Industrial Department, which was
financed in its babyhood by the Ordinary
Department, has made this substantial pro-
gress since it got on its feet:—
Industrial Department.
Ex- Added to Added to
Income. Claims, penses. Deficit. Funds.
1907.. £34,551 £1,689 £30,663 £2,199
1908.. 54,284 2.584 36.018 • 15,682
1909.. 77,723 2,821 43,488 31,414
1910.. 105,438 4,189 51,639 49,610
1911.. 140,560 5,775 67,555 67,230
1912.. 187,912 6.677 74,998 106.237
1913.. 230.388 8,829 86,776 134,783
1914.. 275,118 9,589 90,558 174,971
1915.. 313,303 15,760 94,016 203,527
1916.. 362,133 18,826 107,855 235,452
1917.. 432,038 29,635 127,432 274,971
Expenses absorb 33.7 p.c. of the premiums,
which is an exceptionally low rate, That
no doubt is partly due to the fact that the
aveiage premium. £2 ss. p.a.. is larger than
that of most Industrial offices. There is a
surplus of £18.824 for division—apparently
among policies in force five years and over.
As hitherto, the number of policies void from
all causes (including death) is unfortunately
too heavy. But. this shows a remarkable im-
provement in the experience during the last
few years;—
Policies Issued. Policies Void.
1914 .. 25,580 13,070
1915 .. 23,868 11,097
1916 . . 26,222 9,252
1917 . . 32,183 9,807
Insurance is one of the very few things
which it doesn’t cost more to buy than it did
a few years ago; and the higher gross earn-
ings of the people are no doubt responsible
not only for the larger number of policies
issued but the much smaller number that
are allowed to lapse.
* * * *
The Bank of Adelaide (S. Australia) :
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1906 . . £46,286 8 p.c. = £32,000 £14,286 £283,239
1907 . . 56,265 84 „ „ 34,000 22,265 305,504
1908.. 56,510 9 „ „ 36,000 20.510 326,014
1909.. 52,694 94 „ „ 38,000 14,694 340,708
1910 . . 66,130 10 „ „ 40,000 26,130 366,838
Premiums on new shares. . 50,000 416,838
1911 . . 79,648 10 p.e. = 45,000 34,648 451.486
1912.. 80,598 10 „ ~ 50,000 30,598 482,084
1913 . . 51,138 10 „ ~ 50,000 31,138 513,222
1914 . . 71,946 10 ~ „ 50,000 21,946 535,168
1915.. 53,023 9 ~ „ 45,000 8,023 543,191
1916 . . 49,806 8 ~ ~ 40,000 9,806 552,997
Written off, £12,997 .. 540,000
1917 .. 56,173 8 p.c. = 40,000 16,173 556,173
1918 .. 71,355 10 „ „ 50,000 21,355 ) r R 7 rna
Voted to Provident Fund, £lO,OOO ( ’
South Australia finds it rather difficult to
understand what has been happening in Syd-
ney and to some extent Melbourne. To
Adelaide war hasn’t meant boom. No con-
cern is more representative of South Aus.
than this bank; and look at these figures:
Liabilities.
1914. 1917. 1918.
Notes in circulation =£12,822 £8,517 £8,014
Bills, etc. .. 320,311 270,989 273,546
Deposits .. .. 4.834,739 3,759,455 4,591,817
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 2,988,615 2,302,632 2,851,659
Advances . . . . 3,128,104 2,710,842 3,023,097
Premises, etc. . . 111,321 114,658 101,149
Now compare them with those of a Sydney
bank of approximately the same size, the
A.B.C.: —
Dec., 1914. Dec., 1917.
Deposits, etc. .. £3,088,261 £4,280,794
Liquid assets . . 1,545,343 2,142,943
Advances . . . . 4,073,361 4,635,836
S. Australia has sold its wool and its copper
at very high prices and its wheat at a mod-
erate price, and for its wine it is command-
ing a figure that would have made it smack
its lips a few years ago. That has made up
for the real losses incurred through the stop-
page of production in other directions —
mostly through the departure of Billjim.
But few of the millions borrowed by the
Commonwealth have been spent in S. Aus-
tralia. Nobody has waved a lordly hand
there and said, “Do the thing properly!”
In the two years 1912-13 the direct oversea
exports from S. Aus. totalled £19,425,000;
in three years, June 1914-17. £18,237,000.
The corresponding figures for N. S. Wales,
which means Sydney and Newcastle and not
very much of Newcastle, are £65,846,000
and £119,355,000. It doesn’t mean, of course,
that S. Australia’s exports have been less
in the last three years than in the two years
immediately prior to the war. But it does
mean that the war, besides adding very
largely to the value of N. S. Wales’s own
production, has put a good deal of money
into Sydney’s pocket by making it a port
for the collection of Australian goods for
shipment overseas. For several years prior
to 1913 the cost of living was actually
heavier in Adelaide than in Sydney. Here
are Ivnibbs's index figures:—
1910. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Sydney .. 995 1323 1394 1407
Melbourne .. 942 1277 1309 1294
Adelaide .. 1008 1259 1285 1245
There has been no drought in Sydney to
account for the extraordinary inflation. On
the contrary, there has been great abundance
of supplies—except meat. The whole explan-
ation lies in the wholesale employment of
paper in Sydney and to a somewhat less
extent in Melbourne; it has meant a boom
—that is, a period of fictitious prices—from
which Adelaide may congratulate itself that
it is comparatively free.
So, though this bank’s recent progress has
seemed very poor compared with that of
banks on the Pacific slope, it can take com-
fort from the fact that there certainly is
less froth in its neighborhood. And that
means less likelihood of trouble in the
future. Its total liabilities at the end of
March were £4,873,377, and its liquid assets
were equal to no less than 58 p.c. of_the
debt; and in addition, there was £718,518,
or another 14 p.c., in Government-guaran-
teed wheat advances. This large liquid hold-
ing coupled with the fact that the public’s
money in the business isn’t much over four-
times* the shareholders’ funds makes big
profits out of the question. A 10 p.c. div.
looks all right, no doubt; but it is very
modest considering thaf the reserves largely
exceed the share capital. The holder in
the Bank of Adelaide used to shudder some-
times when he was told that his shares_were
£4 paid liable for £1 and a further £5 “in
case of emergency.” But with assets now
£4 10s. in excess of liabilities and capital,
the shareholder is entitled to feel a good
deal more comfortable.
Burns, Piiilp and Col, Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, Island traders, merchants,
etc.:— Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
March, £ £ £ £ £
1906.. 43,276 8 p.c. = 24,000 19,276 339,277
1907.. 55,637 10 „ „ 30,000 20,000 5,637 344,914
1908.. 69,787 10 „ ~ 30,000 10,000 29,787 374,701
1909.. 54,915 10 ~,,30,000 24,915 399,616
1910.. 70,167 10 „ „ 30,000 15,000 25,167 424,783
1911.. 79,890 10 „ „ 30,000 49,890 474,673
£350,000 of reserves transferred to capital 124,673
1912.. 99,704 5 p.c. = 35,000 64,704 189,377
Cash bonus of 74 p.c., £52,500 . . 136,877
1913.-109,389 5 p.c. = 40,000 69,389 206,266
Cash bonus of 5 p.c., £40,000 . . 166,266
1914.. 115,401 6lp.c.= 62,500 52,901 219,167
1915.. 98,317 6-1 „ „ 62,500 35,817 254,984
1916.. 118,583 74 „ „ 78,750 39,833 294,817
1917- 161,466 71 ~,, 78,750 82,716 377,533
1918- 199,747 74 „ „ 78,750 —■ 120,997 498,530
Following Upon the death of Adam Forsyth,
and probably also having some regard to the
fact that Colonel Burns has had his 72nd
birthday, there have been changes in this
co.’s organisation. P. G. Black becomes
general manager; L. Armstrong takes Black’s
place as chief inspector, and D. W. Cross,
lately an inspector, has gone to America to
represent the co., Burns-Philp Co. of San
Francisco having been incorporated to facil-
itate business. Over 12 months ago it was
announced that, the better to cater for the
islands trade from which the Ilun had been
shut out by the war, contracts had been
placed for a number of wooden vessels. Most
of them were ordered in America; but the
other day Sydney discovered that, while
Hughes had been talking (and talking and
talking), Burns-Philp, being people of
action, had built and launched an auxiliary
vessel in Sydney Harbor for the Gilbert and
Ellice Islands trade. The development of
the Islands business has led the co. to estab-
lish a branch also at Auckland.
While this expansion has been in progress
in the South Pacific the co. has been enjoy-
ing itself in the North. The Common-
wealth’s occupation of German New Guinea
was followed by the extension of 8.-P.’s
sphere of influence to Rabaul; and though
this cost the co. the Matunga, which was
captured on the run from Samarai and sunk
off the coast of Celebes, the accounts do not
indicate that the mishap spoiled the year’s
figures. “Insufficiency of tonnage during the
year was detrimental to the co.’s interests.”
the directors report. Perhaps. That is to
say, if the co. had somehow managed to
grow vessels while the Huns were sinking
everybody else’s. it would have made more
money. But the insufficiency of tonnage has
put up freights by 8.-P. vessels to heights
that could only have been dreamed of a few
years ago ; and the remarkable development
of the Malayan tin-dredging business with
Australian money and brains has provided
the co. with tonnage which hasn’t, been
afraid of high figures, owing to the abnormal
price of tin. There is a dredge under con-
struction at Ruwolt’s in Melbourne whose
owners know that they will not have much
left out of £20,000 by the time they have
paid freight, insurance and re-erection costs.
And the trade with Java has probably not
shrunk. The quantity of flour and other
things that Batavia was consuming a while
ago was simply astonishing!
So, though insufficiency of tonnage has
been “detrimental to the co.’s interests,”
8.-P. managed to show'a profit of just on
20 p.c. on its capital of a million and fifty
thousand. And of that capital, as the table
shows, £350,000 was issued by way of a
bonus. Since then, in seven years, an aver-
age of 7} p.c. has been paid on the increased
capital and £373.857 has been added to vis-
ible reserves. Other movements of the past
eight years:—
Liabilities.
1910. 1915. 1917. 1918.
£ £ V £
Capital . . 300,000 1,000,000 1,050,000 1,050,000
Reserves . . 479,783 347,484 466,283 588,780
Other debts 195,435 261,095 446,493 622,725
Assets.
Properties 155,000 177,000 175,000 176,000
Shipping . . 168,485 258,720 1
Cash and in- \ 456,438 556,731
vestments 84,340 187,088 J
Stock . . 180,551 250,808 400,062 450,586
Book debts 245,011 382,624 522,913 494,567
Other assets 141,831 322,339 408,363 583,621
That is at March 31 in each year, before
the dividend was paid. “Other debts” —
really the liabilities to the public—have been
rattling ahead lately ; but that is due mainly
to the extension of business; for the “other
assets,” which have rattled along, too. are
“copra, pearlshell and other Island produce
on hand and in trail sit, and shipping, con-
signment and other advances.” What is going
to happen after the war this paper doesn’t
know. Before the war’ the German, with
Government assistance, was pushing trade
very hard in the Pacific. What takes place
after the war will be governed largely by the
things that happen in the war; and even
Foeh couldn’t tell you what they are going
to be. But 8.-P. lias a future outside the
South Pacific: for our trade with the North
has vast possibilities. That way, indeed, lies
our natural market.
* * * *
Arthub Rickard and Co. Extended,
Ltd., property subdivisionists and salesmen.
Sydney. The co. acquired the business of
Arthur Rickard and Co., Ltd., and most of
the shares in the Haymarket Building and
Investment Co. The deficit of £1145 with
which the co. began represented flotation
expenses
Dividends.
r A To
Profit. Pref. Ordinarv. Reserves. Deficit.
£1,145
Dec., 74 p.c. Reserves.
1914. .£33,152 £4782 10 p.e.=£15,000 £13,370 £12,225
Deficit.
Haymarket Co.’s assets over-valued £15,051 2,826
3| p.c. Reserves.
1915.. 20,744 4717 Nil 16,027 13,201
1936.. 7,282 Nil Nil 7,282 20,483
1917.. 13,849 Nil Nil 13,849 34,332
Twelve months ago pref. shares were credited
with 12 months’ dividend to the end of June,
1916. “to be paid at the discretion of the
directors.” Now another 18 months’ divi-
dend has been credited to prefs.; but “the
co. is not yet in a position to pay in cash the
dividends accrued, but the directors have in
view a scheme for deferred payment.” There


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
We are instructed by the Commonwealth
Government to pay the following
Increased Prices at Prodiicing Centres
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- per
unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 per
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. JO Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-Houston Direct and Alter-
nating Current Generators for your power and
lighting supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators
in operation in Australia than any other make. The
reason is—reliability. Write for further particu-
lars and quotations to the Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
*** ’ »
Even the fellow who builds castles in the air
doesn’t have to be a “high flier” to avail himself of
a good roofing. The exorbitant price of galvanised-
iron can be avoided by roofing with “Adamax.”
“Adamax” Asphaltum Hoofing is not only about one-
third the cos!:, but it embodies many advantageous
features which galvanised-iron lacks. “Adamax” is
rust proof, fire resistant, and will not rot, pinhole nor
decay nor affect drinking water. If you have a
roofing problem to consider it will pay you to investi-
gate the merits of “Adamax” Asphaltum Roofing.
Writ 6 for the “Adamax” Booklet, containing full
particulars. William Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney; 521-523 Collins Street, Melbourne;
96 Currie Street, Adelaide; Cor. Edward and Marv
Streets, Brisbane; and 33-35 King Street, Perth.
—Advt.
* * * *
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming, more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.— Advt. n
* * * *
The claims of wood pipe. We claim for Pioneer
W odd Pipe that it has more points to recommend it
than any other water-supply pipe on the market in
the way of durability, large capacity, ease of installa-
tion and economy. Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns
Bay Hoad, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address: Box 1576
G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ;
Footsefay, Vic.; and Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors
to all State Governments.— Advt.
* * # *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
* * * *
The manufacture of the Australian “Skandia” Crude
Oil Engine continues apace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in-
dustries. The economy in the running cost of these
engines combined with the small arriount of labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the. stationary type
js unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
ail mining and general work.— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt
*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: flinders' Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
“National” English Engines immediately delivered
irorn ... dney of new stock of latest models. Gas
engines and suction-gas plant, 43 to 46 b.h.p. Towns’s
gas engines of following b.h.p.: 2|, 3£, 8, 101, Hi, 22.
Oil engines 3-1, 4, 7 b.h.p. Petrol engines, If and
3 b.h.p. Large suction-gas plant, suitable for .'-'is
anrf 1 fv> '“Th 10 Apply Arthur Leplastid er
and Co., The Quay,” Sydney.—Advt
*
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent,
obtained. Colijson & Co., 483 Collins “street Mel*
bouine, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice ’Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Vdvt “
* * ’* *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus
BkSnces 63 ’ Weight SUP M ieS ’ Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
inJlkm C „ eS ’ n W ® ls mts, Morgan s Crucibles, Braun’s
fowst raW Sh r S ’ii Furna ? es * Pure Chemicals, at
tS 11 o or '7 nte for Particulars. H. B
* P ’’ jAd., 8 P Connell Street, Sydney and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt. J ’
'E/«RE80»NTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tk * 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital ..
Income (Cross) 1917
Established
- £250,000
194,235
96,291
249,000
1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\\. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
is thus 2-J years’ pref. dividend to be deducted
from what in the foregoing table are called
reserves. If “reserves” mean tangible assets
in excess of the liabilities and capital, there
may or may not be any reserves at all. Ilns
Arthur Rickard and Co. Extended, Ltd., is a
holding co., the holdings consisting of the
150.000 £1 shares in Arthur Rickard and
Co., Ltd., and 49,407 out of 50,000 £2 shares
in the Haymarket Land, Building and Invest-
ment Co. Twelve months ago it was re-
marked here that, in those circumstances,
balance-sheets of the two subsidiary cos.
were necessary in order to allow of an
opinion of any value being formed about the
holding co. The directors have now issued
the three balance-sheets together, and they
are to be congratulated on doing a thing as
rare as it is necessary.
The co. stands something like this :
Liabilities.
Arthur Rickard Extended. —
Deferred dividends .. .. .. £23,588
Sundry creditors . . . . .. 266
Arthur Rickard & Co., Ltd. (less
£49,058 lent by A. R. Extended) 181,601
Haymarket P. L., B. and I. Co. .. 82,646
Total £288,101
Assets.
Arthur Rickard Extended .. .. £5
Arthur Rickard & Co., Ltd.—
Buyers’ balances and sundry debtors 168,186
Land unsold . . . . . . . . 75,684
Shares in other cos. and joint enterprises 89,530
City properties . . .. .. 67,959
Sundries .. .. .. .. 2,372
Haymarket P. L., B. & I. Co. —
Land and properties .. .. .. 64,203
Buyers and borrowers .. .. 119,506
Sundries.. .. .. .. .. 1,487
Total .. ..' .. ..£588,832
Less Haymarket interest not held .. 1,631
Net assets .. .. ..£587,201
That gives net assets £299,100, which are
represented as follows :
A. R. & Co. Extended, Ltd.—
Pref. shares .. .. .. ..£125,806
Ordinaries .. .. . . .. 150,000
Reserves.. . . . . . . .. 10,744
Arthur Rickard & Co. reserves .. 10,000
Haymarket net reserves . . . . .. 2,550
Total £299,100
That, of course, looks as though the co. has
all its capital intact and £23,294 after pro-
viding for the 2| years’ pref. dividend. But
that all depends upon the value of the land,
city properties, buyers’ and borrowers’ bal-
ances and “shares in othe.r cos. and joint
enterprises.” In this last vague item A. It.
and Co., Ltd., has no less than £89.530. Pro-
bably some of that is N.S.W. Realty Co.,
Ltd.; more, probably, is in Hotel Sydney,
Ltd.; some of the balance, no doubt, in vari-
ous land cos. and syndicates. There may thus
be a great deal more in unsold land than
appears in the list.
The very heavy liabilities may be sum-
marised this way:—
Mortgages and balances owing on properties £218,447
Debentures (Commonwealth Bank) . . 10,250
Deposits.. .. .. .. .. .. 10,732
Sundry creditors .. .. .. . . 25,084
Dividends .. .. .. ~ . • 23,588
Total £288,101
The buyers’ and borrowers’ balances plus a
few sundries and sundry book-debts amount
almost exactly to the liabilities, leaving the
capital and reserves to be represented by
unsold land, city properties and “shares in
other cos. and joint enterprises.” Plainly
almost everything depends upon the amount
which can be realised from the use and sale
of these assets; and that, again, depends
very largely upon how they were bought. It
looks as though the bulk of these assets were
acquired prior to the war; and whether land
is going to bring more after the war than it
did before the great trouble struck the world
is a question that nobody can answer defi-
nitely, though lots of people think they know.
With over £lOO,OOO of assets in excess of
liabilities the Haymarket has shown an aver-
age of 1 p.c. profit during the past two years;
yet A. R. and Co., Ltd., reckoned that this
capital was worth par and claims it as such
in its accounts. The Arthur Rickard and Co.
assets show up a bit better; yet there wasn’t
enough there to show p.c. on the ordi-
naries last year, and even that profit depends
upon whether enough has been set aside to
provide for ba® debts and depreciation. Pro-
bably nothing has been provided for deprecia-
tion of property, since it is assumed that
any shrinkage in values is due to abnormal
conditions. The point is whether conditions
were not abnormal when the assets were
secured, and whether they will for many years
be in the same state again.
* * * *
Carpathia, Ardlethan (N.S.W.), is feeling
on good terms with itself, mainly because
some consignments of fair-grade ore have
been made to the battery at Barmedman.
These parcels are expected to yield 18 tons
concentrates. For the last week in April 6|
tons of concentrates were sent to Sydney.
A small battery has been purchased at
Tumut, and is to be re-erected at Ardlethan.
The Lady Bevys, one of the old-time mines
on the Barrier, is owned now by the Mar-
shall’s Monarch Co., which, apparently
through lack of funds, lately got three
months’ suspension. The old co. found the
ore carried too much zinc to be profitable in
those days: but better grade silver-lead
has been found in a branch lode. This has
been driven on 41ft., the body running from
sft. to 7ft. wide, with only one wall show-
ing in the face. The mine is 11 or 12 miles
from Broken Hill, which isn’t much to
bridge if values are right. At present more
is said about measurements. But before the
prospect is abandoned some first-rate man
certainly ought to be engaged to run the rule
over recent developments.
Mount Hope (N.S.W.) was recently com-
pelled to suspend milling owing to shortage
of water. The co. has now equipped its
bore, and the production of concentrates has
been resumed. During the interval the
leaching of the tailings dumps proceeded as
usual. This co.’s copper precipitate aver-
ages about 75 p.c. copper, so that something
has been coming into the exchequer mean-
while. The railway from Matakana to the
mine is under construction by the New
South Wales Government. If this 10-mile
spur is to be finished by the end of June,
as originally contemplated, the officers of
the Department will have to get a move on.
It is pretty easy going, so they may succeed.
* * * *
The Jasper copper-mine, on the Forbes
Itiver (N.S.W.), abandoned years ago, is
being reopened by Marshall and Reynolds,
who worked the Mount Brown copper show,
up Coif’s Harbor way, until they sold out
recently. The abnormal price of copper,
together with cheaper cartage now that the
N.C. line is opened, gives the new men a big
advantage over the co. that opened the mine.
* * * *
The newly formed Perth Mining Associa-
tion has asked the Westralian Treasurer to
help in undoing some of the damage done to
mining by Hughes’s insane “settlement of
the metals problem” and other measures.
.V. E. Morgans and others who formed the
deputation claimed that not only are treat-
ment charges now excessive, but every ounce
of base metal has to be sent compulsorily to
N. S. Wales for refinement, and when re-
fined the owner is not allowed to sell except
through the Metal Exchange, or, if copper
or zinc, through an association formed in
Melbourne to handle these metals. It was
suggested that if the Federal Government
would not agree to exempt the metals men-
tioned from special taxation the present
exemption of £lOOO in respect of the profits
tax on new industries be increased to
£lO,OOO, or, alternatively, that the rate of
profit which was exempt should be increased
from 10 per cent, to not less than 15 per
cent. The Treasurer sympathised with the
deputation and promised to make strong
representations to the Federal authorities on
its behalf. But for the tax several lead
deposits at Northampton and copper shows
beyond Peak Hill, now idle, would certainly
be working.
* * * #
From Westonia :—-
A perusal of a comprehensive report by .A.
State Mining Engineer Montgomery on the water
difficulty at Westonia affords little comfort to in-
vestors. Montgomery estimates there is an inflow
of between 60,000 and 65,000 gallons per hour
threatening Edna May, Central and Consolidated,
and this has to be pumped by the three cos. either
jointly or severally. So far Edna May has borne
the burden, but apparently it is becoming tired of
the honor. Concerning Deeps, Montgomery says the
co. may or may not succeed in damming back the
water from Edna May. He points out also that
should Central persist in mining the Edna May reef
to a greater depth, Deeps will be threatened with
a flooding unless a block of ground is left solid in
Deeps ground on the boundary of Deeps and Central.
Montgomery adds that owners of Deeps should re-
member that they will have to face the necessity
of providing a second opening into the mine for
safety and ventilation.
Edna May and Central are installing additional
pumps in order to cope with the inflow, and it is
likely that these will enable the two mines to again
work their bottom levels, which have been aban
doned for some months. Edna May has about 12
months’ ore to work out in its lower levels, and
what will happen when the water is permitted to
rise in its workings after the ore reserves are ex-
hausted is not comforting. Consolidated, should
Edna May and Central pumping operations drain its
workings (which appears likely), will have one level
to work before its lode passes into Central ground,
and development work in connection with this level
is much behind.
About 65 feet of driving in Deeps has disclosed
thff reef to be from 3ft. to 10ft. in width at the lowest
level, which does not compare favorably with the
width at corresponding points above. Investors are
anxious to know how far the north face of the Deeps’
bottom level drive is from the Central boundary. It
must be very close, if not already there.
* * * *
No one could have expected Edna Mav
to show up with much of a yield for April:
nevertheless the tally of 150 oz. from 528
tons was a bit of a shock. Williams must
liave stripped his mine pretty well of decent-
grade ore above 300 ft. to have to put through
such a crushing. Cyanide (£1600) helps to
gild the figures. Even then the yield isn’t
worth more than £2300, or about half as
much as the March run and only one-third
of the February figures. Deeps sent in
llOOoz. from 1200 tons, with 3dwt. in the
sands. This really isn’t bad ; but the market
expected better. That is the penalty a man
has to pay for setting himself a high stan-
dard, as Stuckey did when he took to churn-
ing out £4OOO yields from SOO ton crushings.
At the Central Giblin has had to close the
bulkhead door, as water is again on the
make, so that it only needs a low return
from Consolidated to put the Westonia pot
off the boil for another month.
* * * *
Things at Hampden (Q.) aren’t too rosy,
as the row over manager Evans, of the
Duchess, is on again, and with greater vigor
than ever. Judge Macnaughton sent the
miners back after telling them that their
objection to Evans was too frivolous for
words. Peace lasted just as long as Evans
was absent; when he showed up the miners
downed tools again. To soften things a bit
Evans’s position was changed from that of
manager to superintendent; but it made
no difference. Earle Huntley is to ask the
union officers to play the game under
Macnaughton rules; but he hasn’t much
hope with the malcontents. If he can't fix
things the Hampden div. will probably be
dropped.
Gympie has had another serious blow —
the shutting down of the Scottish. There
have been 300 hands on the pay-sheet, and
the only work to be done in the show now
is the cyaniding of the tailings. Last year
the co. paid 2d. on its 660,000 £1 shares,
bringing the total distribution to £502,242.
* * # *
A conference at Ararat (Yic.) between
New Langi manager Mackay and Jude of
the F.M.E.A. over whether the miners should
go back to their jobs at the New Langi
Logan and South Langi has ended in smoke.
The fact Mackay had to present was that
calls come as regularly as butchers’ bills, and
that as £130,000 has been thrown into the
New Langi alone Jude ought not to stick
out for something that means a weekly ioss
of £5OO. But it was no go. Jude holds the
fat end of the stick because good miners
are, very scarce, and when he called out the
underground hands ne had places ready for
them elsewhere. To get them back lie' asks
rail fares from Broken Hill (estimated at
£800), a day-wage system, the resumption of
wash-extraction (no matter what the cost),
and shift bosses in the union. This last
would leave only the manager and the
underground man to represent the share-
holder ; and as a big alluvial mine can’t be
run without adequate supervision Mackay
reckoned further discussion waste of time.
Jude may have been putting up a big bluff,
but there is little chance of the Langi mines
applying the wage system ,to stoping work.
Macka.v's shareholders also are not going to
part up £5OO weekly to take out wash that
won’t pay as mining shapes to-day. So
Ararat looks groggier than it did even in
the days when B„ M. and Co. threw up the
sponge over the Cathc-art deal.
* * * *
The affairs of Trong tin are being straight-
ened out, but not in the way the Sydney crowd
desired. Their idea was to plant the Trong
dredge on the Austral Malay’s Ulu Yam
lease of 600 acres which on wide boring
worked out at about 0.751 b. tin oxide per
cubic yard. Trong shareholders were to have
a half-interest in the area in return for their
dredge. But chairman Meagher has another
proposition—the Kalumpan lease of 250
acres, of which 120 acres are alleged to be
lib. ground and about 80 acres 0.751 b. This
block had been bored by Lewis, of Kampong
Ivamunting. To check him 250 fresh bores
have been sunk by Betliune, sampler of
Freeman’s Bolivian property. As he verifies
Lewis, the Trong directors look like spurn-
ing the Sydney offer. If they summon up
pluck to buy Kalumpan, as they can do
under the articles, the vendors of the latter
show will get £lO,OOO cash and 20.000 paids
in a new 100,000 co. with a working capital
ot £20,000. Presumably Palfreyman will
underwrite the new co.
* * * *
J. E. Cocker has handed over his option
on the Alpine to the Umeari, which spent
three years and £50,000 in putting a dredge
to work in the Philippines to find that
ground represented as worth Is. a yard was
not worth Id. Alpine is on the old Cobun-
gra lead, on the highest point of the Aus-
tralian Alps, near Bright (Yic.). Tracey,
at one time old John Wallace’s head
man, and Morwood Thompson report it as
an alluvial deposit from 20ft. to 300 ft. thick
and 40 chains wide, worth Is. a yard, and
the control of the race gives the co. the con-
trol of the deposit. The Umeari co. has
issued 60,000 new shares, and is bogging into
the work. This paper doesn’t know any-
thing yet about the Alpine. It does know,
however, that three years back it showed
that the Umeari ground was so well proved
to be valueless that the Australians who
persisted in running the show must have
been something exceptional in optimists.
“M.C.”: As noted in last week’s
Bulletin, Canada is now enjoying the full
benefit of the high prices obtaining for ferro-
inolybdenum and molybdenite concentrates
in U.S.A. I£ is, however, only recently that
the embargo against the export of molyb-
denum from Canada to U.S.A. has been
removed, and these high prices have become
available to Canadian producers. There
sn ’t ? n y sound reason why Australian
molybdenite concentrates should not be ex-
ported to U.S.A., too. We want the monev
badly enough.
Some of the biggest men in Westralia
have petitioned the State Government to
suspend the labor condition of mining leases
and prospecting areas during the war and
for six months after. Continued efforts to
compel people to work their holdings under
present conditions have no doubt led to the
throw:ng-up of many leases; and unless the
Government moves in the direction asked,
many more, it is alleged, will follow suit.
There is something to be said for the peti-
tioners —more, anyway, than for the mora-
torium which was declared soon after the
war started.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 8 4.)


Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
»» .(Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast ~ 6/6
Management—E. T. CITEESEMAN.
| CIMRLES
HEIDSIECKS
;,,i Vintage 1906
lit PLUS DLTRfI
'<Hr
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
[ a reobt^ QcU Stops
nvvss^Vsv^
ia§^
\22 street- s | doe y
I
256 d^Bea' 1 ’ use t Syd« e ? «
6o« di „ tot , Vtouse- stfee t. =>J |
K*»#&*f** Arf ..*gSl
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET ■<& CHANDON,
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
Poircl
costs too much. Econorfiise by using “GASO-
LETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Fpll directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ It ALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
684 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, May 6, 1918.
My Dear Arini, —
Mayor Joynton Smith’s party in the Town
Hall was, to begin with, a stand-up-and-
deliver-your-hand affair. About 2000 people
of all shades of politics and none, with and
without red ties, with patent toes and corns
and easy leather boots, slowly wormed their
way from the bleak front steps to the vesti-
bule. Half an hour was about the time for
the pilgrimage. The vestibule was the
hitch. It had, with the best intentions, been
turned into a cloak-room. Hence when you
stopped to peg your coat or hat you blocked
progress as far back as George-street. Late
arrivals, learning wisdom, stuck to their
wraps, advanced like wardrobe-hangers,
found a few spare fingers for the Mayor, and
bustled forward. Dr. Fiaschi’s tall lean
figure (the man himself looks younger for
his war work), the beautifully curled
horsehair of Town Clerk Nesbitt, the sub-
regal party on the wallaby round the ,room,
lawyers, laborers in other vineyards, infants
placidly asleep in theft mothers’ arms,
official sec. Budge and his lady, a dash of
khaki, heads of Arbitration Courts and
“defendants, your Honor,” somebody without
a collar enjoying an apple alongside the
Governor’s decoration (his Ex. wears his
bauble over his left lung)—and all hands to
refreshments as soon as the hour struck.
There is one quite easy way of helping the
recruiter. Most men have insured their lives
for the benefit of their wives and families.
Every policy brings in a certain bonus every
year. Nobody outside the insurance office
handles the money—it is just added on to
the amount of the policy. Thousands of men
might feel more inclined to transfer this
year’s bonus to the fund for insuring
married men who will go to the Front if
their wives said a word in favor of it;
because, as I’ve told you already, the in-
surance policy is essentially the wife’s. Sup-
pose they talk it over, then, with hubby?
Dolores curtseyed to a Town Hall audi-
ence for the first time for three years on
Saturday night. Diamonds flashed on her
plump neck, and the soft smile is in the
same place. For the rest it’s just the same
Dolores —brilliant artist and sweet soprano.
French songs suit her best. The audience
demanded an encore for the souffle ending
with “Sous un ormeau.” Pianist Ilenri
Penn, from Melbourne, a sombre, raven-
haired musician, can hit hard when he likes.
But he knows how to tickle the keyboard
softly, too, and the first recall was a small
tumult for his attack on “Tarantelle.”
Louise Mack had an unpleasant experi-
ence at AVagga. Of course it was bound to
come some day. She had been lecturing
through the country on her war experiences,
handing 25 per cent, of the gross proceeds
to the local Red Orossers, who, as a rule,
worked up the show. Then came the fiat :
Any person who shall, without the authority of
the State War Council, organise any scheme for
raising money for any patriotic fund other than the
Repatriation Fund, shall be liable to....six months.
The AVagga lecture was cancelled, while the
Minister for Repatriation was appealed to
for the necessary authority.
Harry Burne, an old Julian Ashton pupil
who has been decorating New York with art
posters for some years, was wounded in
recent fighting in France. AVhen the war
began Harry put aside his brushes and made
for London and a rifle. lie enlisted as a
private in the Horse Guards Blues, later
transferred to the Field Artillery, obtained
a commission, and has been directing corres-
pondence to Fritz continuously for over
three years. In the 1916 offensive he was
A.D.C.-ing General Strong, apd is now a
captain. He is a son of Dr. and Mrs. Burne,
of Waverley.
After putting up a brave fight, Lily, wife
of Percy Ashton and daughter-in-law of
Julian, died in St. ATncent’s private hospital
on April 29. Percy enlisted early in
this year his wife intended to carry bn till
his return. The carrying-on included the
management of a plantation in the New
Hebrides, with only Fuzzy-Wuz as a helper.
Malaria intervened, and a very sick woman
came to Sydney a few weeks ago. She was
a widow when she married Percy, and there’s
a young daughter at school in Canada put-
ting on a black frock for a loved mother.
Flower-trimmed Alexandra Hospital seethed
with good wishes and discreet tabloids of
oratory the other afternoon with Gov. David-
son to listen to it all. The annual meeting
is always held on the premises—a simple
wile -which is good for the never-too-robust
finances. Dr. Clubbe, perennial president,
breathed in public the first whisper of the
Board’s latest aspiration. Above all things
else now it wants a convalescent home, pre-
ferably by the seaside. Hundreds of the
infants don’t need a hospital so much as a
spade and a heap of sand and the salt air
coming in upon their little pinched faces
from the big, clean ocean. It wouldn’t cost
much; and what a memorial it would be!
Red Cross Day brought all manner of
relics, given after a farewell hug, to help
grill another chicken for our wounded. But
there are still a few ancient rags their
owners love more than life. “Kenneth
McKenzie,” writes a country correspondent,
“has a strip of the silk dress worn by Flora
Macdonald in the days of Prince Charlie.
This is alleged to have landed in Australia
in 1835 in company with Isabella McKenzie.
The lady went first to Camden; then settled
at Brembin, Hastings River. Flora’s bit
skirt is now a wall-pocket, and in spite of its
age is in first-rate condition.”
Young artist Cayley, son of the late
Neville, sold £l5O worth of bird and bush in
his just-closed show. Amongst the buyers
who chose bush was Dr. Chisholm Ross.
Trees are a hobby of his.
An extra-cheerful Billjim occupied a motor
seat in tin* Anzac Day procession. He \vas
short of a leg, hut the stump of it remained,
and it proudly floated a small flag, which
waved in acknowledgment of the cheers en
route, and bowed now and then to extra-
special applause.
The John Waughs’ capable daughter goes
to Egypt as an 18-carat war-worker. She
has put in the usual ALA.I), term of washing-
up and scrubbing floors for Billjim, and was
a first-rate hon. cook for a while at the Mill
Convalescent Home, Moss Vale. Parra-
matta Croquet Club handed the local lass a
fountain-pen and its sincere esteem.
The second of the Waverley Playfair boys,
Capt. Strath, is back, with more shrapnel in
his limbs than is good for any boy’s comfort.
Matraville is on the road to Long Bay,
and the tram tosses out its passengers
amongst the sand hummocks of the new vil-
lage where voluntary workers are perspiring
over spade and pick. Mostly it’s spade, with
a barrow. On Saturday afternoon the
Davidsons, after a look at the AVar Chest
sports, hurried out to the voluntary diggers’
camp. Here his Ex. buckled to. after fife
and drum had played him in, and shovelled
a few peck's of sand from their long home,
finally laying the foundation-stone of a
home for a disabled soldier. Of such domi-
ciles 170 will gradually spring up, with
architects John Sulman arid Oscar Backhouse
as watchdogs. The company balanced on small
boulders round the platform while Dr.
Arthur had a tilt at more than windmills
and the Blue Gum girls made the tea.
Dr. Mary Booth, Mrs. Ethel Turner Cur-
lewis, Mrs. Cutner and the übiquitous opti-
mist Kettlewell were in the crush.
Matra had a finger in the earliest Botany
Bay pie. According to some authorities he
had as a youngster been a middy on the
Endeavor and saw the Promised Land. Any-
how, in 1779 he put before Lord Sydney his
scheme for hurling turbulent spirits into the
new Arcadia; and in 1786 the notion took
form.
This is the pic-
turesque head of
“Old Boomerang.”
At 96, within a week
or two of his recent
death at Hunter’s
Hill, its venerable
owner, J. R. Ilould-
ing, was still com-
paratively active.
Born in England in
1822 —the Fourth
George was King—
young Houlding was
articled to a London
lawyer. But the
world was wide, and
the Houlding family
wanted to see it; so
they chartered a
ship, in the old-
fashioned way, and chose Australia for the
great adventure. The crew mutinied on
the voyage. “And the lawyer’s clerk,” says
one Australian chronicler, “had to go aloft
in a storm and help to reef the main tops’l.”
He reefed so well that he was kept at the
hard and dizzy job till they reached Sydney
on- Anniversary Day, 1839. The experience
was, according to “Old Boomerang,” cheaply
bought: in after years he navigated his
own ships on the Australian coast. The
Ilouldings brought out valuable stock for a
station property. But the youth wanted
more excitement than “going on the land.”
Eventually he settled at Raymond Terrace,
made a fortune (with the assistance of a
start given by a legacy from England) and
took a trip to England. When he returned
the gold rush was over, business went to bits,
and, to add to his losses, he had endorsed
bills for a friend. As “Old Boomerang,”
whose busy pen pushed many articles into
the Sydney press of long ago. and writer of
“Christopher Cockle’s Colonial Experiences”
and many other stories of early Australia,
he will be remembered best. In his case
longevity was worth while. Surrounded by
a devoted circle of grandchildren (one of
his daughters married the late Dr.
Ivelynack), “Old Boomerang” retained his
love* for literature and his interest in life to
the end. Physically slender, almost
shadowy, he owned up to being an invalid
only about a fortnight before his death.
Gone where no
discords can disturb
his long rest, Syd-
ney’s wonderful old
music-master, Josef
Kretselimann. Born
80 years ago in the
once-pleasant land of
Bohemia, and with,
every sign of having
a wandering - gipsy
minstrel strain in his
blood, the story of
his studies in Leipsie
and his efforts (with
a grand duchess to
finance the scheme)
to contemplate the
remains of Babylon,
has already be e n
told. It sounds like
the opening chapter of a modern Don
Quixote’s adventures. Sydney knows him
better as its greatest and most unique music-
master. Two generations of infant phenom-
ena (all his ducklings were going to be
swans) learnt piano or violin from the
gifted child of nature. And very often they
paid nothing but the uncertain dole of grati-
tude for such infinite pains as would have
almost knocked harmony into a cabbage-
head.
ifis pupils’ concerts in happier days were
tremendous gatherings. The Town Hall
surged with ringlets, short muslin frocks and
dimples. The adored master, good man, with
usually just sufficient funds in hand for the
coming week or two, had always some pet
philanthropy to help with the profits. A
fund for the assistance of distressed
musicians was his favorite dream. To chil-
dren he was an eternal Santa Claus whose
baggy pockets bulged with toys all the year.
It was always Christmas 1 )ay with this
benign soul —till the war came. The horrors
of the Ilunnish methods of waging it became
a daily scourge to the gentle old man who,
having been born in Bohemia, had to be
called German. He died at 80, still too
young to give up teaching, after a week or
so of intangible illness —a tired child. To
one of his favorite pupils, Esther Kahn—-to
whom he bequeathed Ins pupils—he said:
“In a few days, my child, I will go. But
none of your ‘Dead Marches’ at my funeral.
Just ‘Home, Sweet Home.’ ” Of his impe-
cuniosity he had only one fear. “AVhen I
am gone,” he said to Southwell four years
ago, “no one shall have to dip the hand in
the pocket for me. See here, my friend. I
have just paid for my little bit of earth at
South Head—where we will hear the waves !
And for you, too; I have bought you a
grave beside me!” As “Southie” was very
ill at the time he was not wildly elated when
the dear old man, with the simplicity of the
child, thrust into his hand the receipt for
his six-feet of sod. “But this poor horse
must not drag us up the hill,” was Kretsch-
mann’s sudden exclamation when he and a
fellow-musician with a big ’cello had reached
the bottom of Bellevue in a cab. “We walk,
my friend ; the poor animal has the cab—it
is enough.” So out they got. The charac-
teristic photo is lent by J. S. Watkins. The
original portrait is in the National Art
Gallery.
A r eteran artist George Collingridge has
just closed his brief one-man show in the
Iklucation Gallery. The walls were wanted
for someone else’s frames, so Sydney’s old
friend had only a four days’ exhibition. In
his small water-color sketches Collingridge
piovides a good background for some chap-
ters of early N. S. Wales history. For in-
stance, “The Oldest Farm on the Ilawkes-
bnry” : Ben Boyd’s old “AVool Store,” built
in the ’forties on the shores of Neutral Bay;
and “The Oldest House in Sydney.” A more
concentrated attack on the historic side of
his work, put before the public later on.
would bring a queue of buyers. Not that
the aesthetic Collingridge worries about the
commercial fate of a sunset after he has
painted it.
l r oung Billyard Leake, who has been
“mentioned” for his part in the Zeebrugge
raid, is a son of that Charles Billyard of
this State who married a wealthy Miss
Leake and added the lady’s maiden name.
In the long ago the Billyards—grandpa and
grandma of the naval lieutenant —lived at
picturesque old Elizabeth Farm, on the
Parramatta River.
Local society lias folded the youthful
Aide Saltmarshe to its ninon bosom. He is
young and serious, fought in the retreat
from Mons, and has been at it almost ever
since. Damages- earned the present fur-
lough. So he has made an Impression, and
our most expensive people are, so to speak,
showering seats-in-motors on the nice new
boy.
Mary Moodie Heddle, Superintendent of
the Talbot Colony for Epileptics (Vic.),
passed this way recently. She is going to
Canada on a visit to one of her big brothers.
Two of these huge Scots are well known in
the inter-State ship-service, one being the
youngish skipper of the Katoomba. Before
coming to this sunny clime Mary Heddle
was one of the Queen’s Nurses, in Eng-
land—they do work similar to that of our
District Nurses.
The Flying Corps Comforts Depot has
bioken out in an orchestra. It wears no
wings—just carries its fiddle under its arm
and plays when required at patriotic func-
tions. The perch is at 59a AVentworth-
avenue, and thd Ladybirds want any semi*
detached girls who feel that way to come
along and lend their aid.
A brilliant show of English and American
posters, collected by C. Lloyd Jones, one of
the editors of “Art in Australia,” will be
opened on Saturday at the Education Gal-
lery. Admission, fid.; takings go to the
War Chest, the collector defraying all
expenses himself. Even before the war the
best English and American artists didn’t
consider it below them to paint posters.
Now, with the nations asking for their
patriotic best, the giants of pencil and paint
have turned out masterpieces for the hoard-
ings.
Master Painters, Decorators and Sign-
writers are having a corroboree. As part of
their week’s jubilation there’s an exhibition
of their craftsmanship in the Town Hall
basement. A notable section is the polished
wood; and alongside decorators get in a
fancy touch with effective imitations of old
tapestry squares. The modern craze for the
revival of the frieze is illustrated in moun-
tainous scenery entirely surrounded by lakes.
Altogether an interesting show.
The useful Bed Cross secretary, Miss
Chester, who is a permanent institution at
Dalton House, got a gold watch and an
autograph-book in recognition of her strenu-
ous labors for the Day.
The sixth reinforcements of the 17th Bat-
talion—the 17th that was so badly cut up at
Gallipoli—want to have a reunion of re-
turned men. Sergeant Woods, Bream-street,
Coogee, is the secretary.
A surplus of Red Cross Day goods, sold
in David Jones’s the other afternoon (Ser-
geant-Major Van Gilder was the lively auc-
tioneer), revealed the variety of stuff which
pours in for a patriotic cause. A most in-
dignant black orpington lady was dragged
out of a crate to kick her toes in mid-air as
the auctioneer ticked off her talents as pro-
vidore of the breakfast egg. Island bags
and kirtles, auto-harps, a new bicycle, an
oil, painting, crockery, cut glass and other
luxuries fell in turn to a circle of women-
bidders. The only thing missing w r as a
recipe for winning the war before its fourth
birthday.
Boots, in spite of the price of leather, are
still climbing. Sumptuary laws, to decide
who wants the tanner’s hides most, may yet
come into force. There is plenty of human
nature .in the best of women. And Sister
Susie becomes irritable when she sees her
self-abnegation discounted by senseless waste.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


JOE TAYLOR
—Creator of
“Supreme Value"
SUITS and
COSTUMES.
mm
)ALUE is the dominant note in my
tailoring. I am out after big
turnover rather than big profits.
I buy on a big scale that means low
prices. Taking huge consignments direct
from the manufacturers, cutting out middle-
men s profits, I am in a position to offer
values the ordinary tailor cannothope to touch.
Joe Taylor Suits
from £4 4Sa
Costumes from £5 ss.
I SELL for spot cash only —make no
bad debts —and have no outstanding
accounts. The credit tailor has both —
and he HAS to charge you enough to make
a profit in spite of them !
That’s all very well for him, but it’s
mighty bad business for you. Don’t stand
for it any longer.
Profit by my Spot Cash methods of buying and selling.
Every Suit or Costume I create is made in my own
workroom by a skilled staff of specialists and sold under my
ironclad guarantee “ Your money back if your Suit or
Costume is not right.” You cannot have a stronger
guarantee of satisfaction than that.
Patterns of Newest Suitings and Costume Cloths post
free on request. Use the Coupon !
Sr.
m
mm
IS
£si
TSSHS
Kgi
■»<! '.
»V/o
■;«. •
J.-'yxtSU
rVi?SJ
lb
VI
t's
lilt:
s
il
m
l IpV
IS
®3>
$1
fj
I!
Jab
mi:
WvISK
SM
■an
■*v*
H 5 fw
rail
iMSs
K
JSW
i ;: m
ty.i
"'.■.i::
•* •'■•■■
iffii
/ &
$3?
js£f««
IKK-'*!
M
wm
.1 .!
K*
I
es*
.«■:■*
pi
if#*
it
.Mi
i‘xf.
1111
«]
IS
Jfe
Ws4m
m
li
1
?:j\
€
v
i
Ta
lor
J ' ■■ . • . ■ , ■
“ Seven Busy Tailoring' Stores, **
95 King Street
(Between Pitt and
George Streets),
SYDNEY.
109 Bourke Street; 69 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
And at Brunswick, Footscray, Richmond and North Melbourne.
.
FILL IN, CUT OUT and POST
TO-DA Y.
Suit or Costume?
Shade
Price about
Same
Address
Bulletin. 9/.VIS.


\Aelionian
IT \ high-class
jSPE|CIALTIES
sdg
Creams
and
Pastes
1U«
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne. ‘
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER - THE • WORLD
farmery,
JG
,■ m 9 •
Siscfnet/.
HAIRDRESSING
SALON
MASSAGE E TC
E\RLORS
Plain . . . . . . .. ..26
With Marcel Waving . . .. ..00
Marcel Waving, 2s. 6d. and .. .. 3 6
After attendance .. . . ..10
Cutting or Trimming 16
Boston Cutting .. . • .'. 2 6
Singeing .. .. • • ..10
Shampooing, 2s. 6d.; Plain Dressing
3s. 6d.; Waving, 4s. 6d.; Marcel
Waving, 55.; Henna or Pine Tar.. 5 0
Dyeing and Tinting by arrangement.
Henna Applications from .. .. 10 6
Lessons in Hairdressing—•
Single Lesson, 55.; 5 for ..£llO
Special Children’s Hairdressing—-
Cutting and Trimming ..’ .. 16
Boston Cutting .. .. ..20
Face Massage: One treatment ■ • 3 6
Course of 7 . . . ■ . . £] 1 0
Scalp Massage, Hand or Electric Treatment.
One Treatment ... ■ • • • 50
Course of 5 .. .. .. £llO
Manicure .. • • • • ..16
Chiropody: One foot, 3s. 6d.; two., o 6
With Vibratory Treatment . • 7 6
Course of 5 sittings .. £l2 6
With Vibratory Treatment £1 10 0
Farmer’s Ladies’ Hairdressing Salon and
the new Children’s Barber Shop, rich in
appointments and hygienic appliances ,
number amongst the most modern of the
Southern Hemisphere.
IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up waste will
gently move out of the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as effective for gi’andpa as it is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers gan rest easy after giving
it because it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.”
For 30 years California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—has been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig"
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies; children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles
of two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9rL
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, May 6, 1918.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Sassiety has so many Red Cross bookings
for this month that the calendar hasn’t
enough days to go round. Two big shows
have therefore decided to collaborate. The
matinde at King’s ("which had been scheduled
for the 10th) joins up with the big show
engineered by the wives of Federal members.
Mrs. George Fairbairn, president of the
matinge affair, offered herself and all her
minions to President Mrs. Willie Watt, and
Mrs. Watt accepted. The matinee happens
on May 21, and the Federal kiosks do busi-
ness on Red Cross Day.
The two big committees fused on Friday
afternoon at the Oriental. It was like the
junction of two flooded rivers, across which
heroines disguised as maids swam repeatedly
with tea and eatables. Before the end of
the afternoon there was (comparative)
peace.
Lady Helen and Lady Stanley were both
interested, but neither could attend the tea
party. Mrs. George Fairbairn (president
of the matinge) led her side well. Mrs.
Groom (Q.) and Mrs. Flemming (N.S.W.),
the autocrats of the Federals’ effort, were
kept busy pouring oil on troubled waters.
Ex-mayoress Hennessy looked as if she was
thankful to be (officially) out of the argu-
ments. Bigjohn Forrest’s wife was at home
helping nurse her Bigjohn; but they are
both doing their best for this Red Cross
cause. Mrs. Shepherd, Mrs. Jack Scott and
Mrs. Sellheim were there, giving moral sup-
port to their good-tempered President Mrs.
Fairbairn. Bates Post attended in a lovely
striped heliotrope shirt, like wallpaper, a
check suit and sundries. He is offering a
one-man play of half an hour to the matinee.
Mrs. Post accompanied him, and the big,
languid leading lady wore a wonderful big
black shiny hat above droopy duds.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen have been for
a dash through the Western District by
motor. Welcomes by town and shire coun-
cils and Red Cross branches were numerous,
but what tickled his Ex. most was an im-
promptu welcome at Dennington, between
Warrnambool and Port Fairy, where a Kelly
Gang of school kids formed up across the
roadway, stopped the car and flocked round
with shouts of “Hi, Mister, we want a holi-
day !” The G.-G. was greatly touched by
this manifestation of loyalty and arranged to
have the demand granted.
As soon as seats for the big Red Cross
matinee at King’s were available, three of
the four boxes were snapped up at quite
ordinary rates. Then a man offered £lOO
for the remaining box, and his bid was thank-
fully taken. Wealthy pals of his came seeking
boxes, one offering £5O and another bidding
£25 a seat (four seats in a box). But the
pens were not available. The women who
had booked them at the usual six guineas
were sitting hard on their bargains at the
time of writing. And Red Cross enthusiasts
were thinking of all the money that was
being lost.
A thin haze of secrecy surrounds the Red
Cross effort made by Captain Conant, gent-
help. The blue-eyed broth of a boy has
• written a play for the movies, with sassiety’s
leaders and platoon commanders as actors
and actresses. The film will be seen first at
Ccombe and then, thrown on the Auditorium
screen on May 23 at a monster Red Cross
bushrange. The decorative Roma Clarke and
Mavis Thiel are stars —the necessary' dark
and fair heroines. Eily Hughes says she is
the bundle that falls out of the motor-car.
Then she claps her hand over her mouth
and says she can tell No More. Conant
wants his play to be a mystery until it
bursts on Melbourne. One of the released
“secrets” is that a scene is to show Portsea
pier with all the sensational bathing-dresses
of last season and inspirations for next
summer thrown in.
The Quamby Clubbers had their big Red
Cross party last week. Roma Clarke, the
decorative secretary, thinks they’ll get quite
£5OO out of it. One stall was a gold-mine:
it had 500 quail to sell, besides chooks, tur-
keys, young lamb and other country presents.
The raffle for the wonderful pearl necklace
with the diamond clasp (presented by Mrs.
Fairbairn) still goes on. Piles of books
have been sold ; but the rafflers are keen on
getting more tickets into the country and
even into the other States.
A march of reinforcements on Saturday
mci'ning through Melbourne showed fine lads
—but pitifully few of them. They leave
almost immediately for France. There were
rallying points with,bands and speeches and
an Anzae band going on before. A squad of
Italians marched along after them in every
possible style of mufti. They have been
called home for service.
The girls of the Malvern Rifle Club
are in mourning for their former instructor,
Sergeant G. F. Williams, killed in action
after two years’ service. Before he went to
France he trained many a soldier to shoot,
and when he arrived at the Front, after a
further spell as instructor in England, he
bettered his precepts by winning the Mili-
tary Medal and the Croix de Guerre. Forty
years of age, he left two boys to remember
him, and a fighting brother to avenge him.
The luscious Australian brunette who was
Muriel Williams pops up as Lady Lawford,
wife of Major-General Sir Sydney Lawford.
a distinguished brass hat. Muriel’s first
husband was Oswald Watt, the Sydney
flying man, who has done so well with the
French and English Flying Corps. Lady
Lawford’s dad was the late Sir Hartley
Williams,/who. just missed being our Chief
Justice. By the way, her brother, popular
“Tup” Williams, has been appointed Associ-
ate to Irvine. C.J.
With young Franklin Peterson’s depar-
ture to join General Johnston’s staff at
Rabaul, the widow Peterson will find herself
rather a lonely soul in Australia. The two
Peterson children, six and seven when they
first saw Melbourne, spoke a strange Scot-
tish mixture for some years after their
arrival, but by degrees plain Australian con-
quered, though for emergencies they both
have a handy selection of other tongues.
Daughter Leonie, who married Colonel
Mackworth, lives at Cairo. She used to be
an energetic little miss in her early days at
the Conservatorium. When she grew Dig
enough papa allowed her to toot one of the
brasses in his orchestra, a job seldom pre-
viously undertaken by any of the girl-
students. It is possible that she may be a
baronet’s missus one day. Two of Colonel
Mackworth’s elder brothers have gone under
to the Hun, and eldest brother Humphrey,
the reigning potentate, has no children.
Songster Ida Osborne’s sister Nina, known
in Australian musical comedy, is at present
a masseuse on the staff of a war hospital in
John Bull’s country. She recently had a
lively time with a devil’s brood of. Hun
aeroplanes, which, to show their spite at
failing to pass the barrage that kept them
from London, eight miles away, dropped their
eggs on the hospital. Nina took her chance,
and stood by the soldiers until 2 a.m., when
the raiders 'departed. Talking of eggs, she
pays sd. each for the fruit of the hen, and
the rest of her diet is meat-extract soup,
rice, macaroni, beans and rhubarb. Her
patients are more or less limbless fighting
men.
Students of the ’Varsity of a decade ago
will grieve at the news of Carl Pirani’s death,
indirectly due to his trials on active service.
After gaining his B.Sc., he, with one of
Theodore Fink’s sons, ran a wheat farm in
the West. In due time they enlisted, and
Pirani returned to the land after being in-
valided home. His brother Max, an “infant
prodigy” in music, enlisted in U.S.A., where
he had been studying.
To the gloomy record of deaths amcng
the Mt. Noorat Blacks, of Terang, has beeu
added that of Flight-Lieut. Donald Black,
who passed out on the 23rd ult. as the. result
of an accident while on the wing. With his
brother lan, Lieut. Black left Australia t o
years ago to join up with the British army.
The Madden widow has lost her eldest
nephew, Captain Kenneth Stephen, of the
Artillery. He was killed in France on April
22 after over two years’ service, during which
he earned the M.C. Like his father, Sidney
Stephen, lie was attached to the Law, and
caught an occasional six-an’-eight at Maffra.
A few returned Aussies are now wearing
colors on their backs. They are men of the
Sixth Brigade—the soldiers who fought back
to back at Bullecourt and wear the King’s
colors in recognition of the part they played
in that frightful struggle.
Flight-Lieut. Gordon Ross-Soden had
hardly hopped back to khaki after recover-
ing from war injuries when he was put
on to the sick list again by a defective plane.
Young Gordon had been given a machine-
testing job as light employment suitable for
a flying convalescent. When the last mail
left he was still too sore to go aloft.
The Glaciarium opened on Saturday for
another war winter and found soldier-part-
ners scarcer than usual. Of the hundreds of
returned soldiers round town few' are fit for
such physical exertion, and the fit eligibles
not in khaki are shy birds these times. A
swartn of lively flappers glode round with
schoolboys—youngsters under military age.
Miss Adelaide obliges :
Fifteen hundred petitioners to the Premier have
demanded an inquiry concerning the 19X5 Onka-
paringa Race Meeting. The committee had promised
that half the net profits of the meeting would go to
the Belgian Relief Fund, for which Lady Galway was
then making a special appeal, and this is what the
petitioners allege: That a gross profit of £2OOO
was made; that a debit balance of £2 10s. Id. was
announced ; that £5OO for improvements and upkeep
and £179 for lunch were debited; in short, that,
apparently the whole of the profits were swallowed
by costs and charges for the day’s sport. The com-
plainants reckon it is high time that the club
was compelled to hand over its books to an inquisi-
tive auditor. The Premier has promised to give to
the protest his “consideration.” But surely the
propriety of auditing the books of clubs and com-
mittees that make patriotic appeals to the public
doesn’t call for much considering.
Lieut. Neil Campbell, who has been seriously ill
twice and gravely wounded twice since he enlisted in
1914, is now reported missing. It is eloquent testi-
mony to the feebleness of our present recruiting
system that a man so badly knocked about should
be back in heavy fighting while Australia teems
with untried eligibles. Lieut. Campbell, who is a
son of the late Dr. Allan Campbell, was married not
long before war broke out to the younger daughter
of the John Gordons. His wife and baby daughter
are in Adelaide.
Miss Pollitt, who exchanged school-teaching at
Mount Gambier for munition-making in England in
January of last year, is now working with Captain
Bean on the history of the war. In between taking
notes for Bean she helps Col. Butler, D. 5.0., who is
in charge of the collection of medical records. “Two
of the nicest men to be found anywhere,” she exults.
In a recent casualty list Lieut. Guthrie and Sgt.-
Major Russell, previously reported missing, were
posted as killed in action on October 12 of last year.
Both were sons of two stalwarts of the old Labor
party. Mr. Guthrie is still one of this State’s Sena-
tors, and the late Mr. Russell filled another of the
six seats till his death a few years ago.
The M.C. has been awarded to Lieut. T. S. Ware.
He was in Queensland when war broke out and
enlisted there. He is the second son of A. W.
Ware, who was mayor of this village at the time of
the Yorks’ visit.
The Wattle Day League’s hospital wing was opened
on Friday at Keswick. Its eight rooms contain up-to-
date appliances for orthopedic treatment, and include
massage rooms, a mechanical treatment room, where
weakened or paralysed muscles are gradually restored,
and a re-education room, where men suffering from
shell-shock or paralysis, or fitted with artificial
limbs, are taught to walk. The wing, which cost
£2OOO, is the second of its kind in the Common-
wealth ; the other is at Caulfield, Victoria.
At a meeting of women in the Exhibition on
Sunday every seat was filled. The Governor presided,
and the principal resolution —a message of gratitude
and admiration to the men at the Front was moved
by Lady Galway in stirring words. The only other
resolution urged a more responsible note in national
life and some limitation of amusement and personal
extravagance* The Governor, on his part, made an
urgent plea for recruits.
A windfall of £lOOO has come to the Army Nurses’
Fund from Miss Robertson, of Moy Hall station, near
Narracoorte.
G. S. Reed, the Chief Justice’s Associate, has
enlisted.
News comes from Egypt of the engage-
ment of Hylda Chenery, of a well-known
Albury family and niece of the George Chirn-
side lady, to Capt. Charles Daniels. Hylda,
who has been doing her bit as a nurse, met
her Tommy that way.
Ex-vice-regal secretary Geoff Luttrell, who
fishes for his crust and health at Portsea,
has landed a very fine catch. Her name is
Alys Bridges, daughter of the late rich
Admiral. She is just back from three years
in the Fog. Fiance Geoff is the elder son
of his dad, who owns a place in Somerset.
His health is too bad to allow of any
soldiering. The gilt-edged Bridges are being
married off at a great rate. Sister Alfreda
entered for the matrimonial stakes with ex-
secretary Share last January. In February
sister Marjorie followed on with a Canadian
officer.
Dr. Marshall’s youngest daughter Doris
was quietly married at dad’s Scots’ Church
a few days ago. She’s a small fair-haired girl
who put in a year as V.A.D. in St. George’s
Hospital, London, after a long bout of
similar service in Melbourne. The young
man is Dr. Douglas Aitchison, a son of Dr.
Alex, and one of the residents at Alfred
Hospital. He’s in khaki and hopes to go
to the Front shortly. Doris got through the
ceremony in a snow-white plumage, with
some of mother’s wedding finery added.
Our sex’s much-abused garments have
their uses. At Malvern the other day a
charlady with a suit-case attracted the sus-
picion of a John Hop. He called in femi-
nine assistance, and a search brought to light
a vest, a tin of herrings, a knife, a spoon
and a child’s blouse in the lady’s stockings;
tied round her waist under her blouse a pair
of —er —trousers, and -inside her corsets two
plates and a serviette. A Bench composed of
unsympathetic males said it w’ould be gaol
for a month. Another of us, w’ho was not
presented at court, was recently shooed into
a private room at a P’ran emporium and
forced to return a ham which was fixed some-
how between knees and waist!
Mrs. Carlyle Smythe and Mrs. Morris
Phillips, the novelist, acted as hostesses for
the Alexander Watson tea-drinking at the
Grand last week. Morris Phillips, as presi-
dent of the Shakspearean Society, came to
do honor to the Shakspearean guest. \S atson
in return supplied a peep behind the
scenes at the front. Dr. Leeper, the G. A.
Symes, Gyles Turner, L. A. Adamson and
Frank Tate gave a scholastic and erudite
air to the function, and every professor or
elocution in Melbourne was conspicuously
present.
Burly Lionel Belmore, of the G. B. Post
Co., has become almost as popular in Club-
land as he was on the boat coming here. He
is a genial soul with a repertoire of stories
second only to that .of Cyril Maude’s man-
ager, the inimitable “Tubby” Turner. Lionel,
who besides scoring in the legitimate, has
acted as director of several big film cos., is
a sister of Daisy Belmore, who decorated
“The Sign of the Cross” in the somewhat
distant past.
Hugh D. Mclntosh stepped in and grabbed
Espinosa, the great dance expert, who just
happened to drop in. ‘ He is to produce the
new London revue, “Time, Please.” Ballets
will be a feature, of course, and the newcomer
and Barry Lupino are to dance in duet.
Mrs. Eccles, the rich, stage-struck wife of
Dr- Eccles, has got a chance on the profes-
sional stage with the Bates Post Co. Cer-
tainly her part is little more than a sassiety
woman’s laugh and frock at a dinner party ;
but she has to be right there on the stage to
do it. Pier great ambition is to play Mimi
in “Bohfeme.”
Alexander Watson opened his season on
Saturday night in the breathless Athenaeum
Hall. Half an hour before schedule time
the “House Full” placard was out, and a
busy lad at the foot of the stairs warned
latecomers that only reserved seats were
available. Dejected crowds were turned
away. Perhaps this will encourage Alex-
ander to conquer some other lecture hall.
The Athenseum, sacred to highbrow shows,
isn’t designed for such a pack. On Saturday
night lawyer Shelton’s wife fainted most
effectively and was carried out with her fair
hair, her rope of pearls and her white gown
all drooping. Watson was just then on the
Death of Wellington, and his “Bury the
great Duke” was very lingering.
It is always good to hear a sound art-
craftsman speak enthusiastically of an eager
pupil. The toiler in this instance is
F. J. Tarrant, glass painter, of Sydney; the
pupil Millie Field, of Victoria, now instruct-
ing at Ballarat School of Arts. Miss Field
was sent over to Sydney by her Education
Department to pick up what points she could
about this somewhat out-of-the-way craft;
and she proved to be an eagle on the picking-
up job and took a complete kit of informa-
tion back to Victoria. But it is a national
scandal that Australia allows these enthu-
siasts to potter along instead of keeping back
the flood of imports that • overwhelms them.
Sergeant A. Ilolgate, of Bunyip, lately
decorated with a D.S.M., made three attempts
to enlist before he was accepted. His sister
is well known in Melbourne art circles.
Another Bunyip lad who has made good is
Captain Bruce Forsyth. He landed on the
Peninsula as a private.
The people who regard a trained nurse as
overpaid at £3 3s. a week elevated their right-
thinking eyebrows when Dr. Connie Ellis, on
her return from an American trip, told them
that in the States a properly-accredited nurse
asks for £6 a week —and gets it.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


\ f
1
%
m
BELLC. FRAZER
I!
?
k
»
AH you need to do is to fit
the pieces together from the
Detail Drawings we supply.
We can send you
mi
r^!
n
m
M
8M |
m
w
i
&
&
:
BELL AND FBAZElL—Copyrig*!.
Pieces for making any Furnishing
Article such as Artistic Chairs,
Tables, Bookracks, Lawn Swings, or
any Artistic Essential to Your Home.
im
K
WmmM
Hill
*
*
A
m).
n
m
m
twmm
m
SF»
K S
m
i %
HJ..5
sm
ass
re*
JEW
«
YOU
CAM
SAVE
MONEY
Because you can use your spare time in fitting the Redi=l<ut Pieces together.
Because the timber, being in pieces, can be closely packed at low freight charges.
Because you save the high cost of factory expenses and high rents of shops.
You will be surprised at the economical
amount at wbicb you can artistically
furnisb your home with Redi-Kut Timber.
AsR for Circular A. It’s yours by return post.
II
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists.


For COUGHS arid COLDS
Use
HEENZO
1 Registered Name V
for 1
HEAN’S ESSENCE./
Miss VERA PEARCE
says: “The distress of. a
relaxed throat teas be-
coming very pronounced.
Remedies known to the
theatrical profession for
years were inefficacious;
hut HEENZO ( Mean's
Essence ) proved
promptly beneficial, and
the speedy manner in
which it toned and
strengthened the vocal
cords induces me to
highly recommend your
excellent preparation to
all whose vocations
necessitate constant use
of the voice. ,>
a
# n
Costs 21-
Saves lOj-
Each bottle of HEENZO,
when diluted with warm
water and sweeten: d, pro-
duces a pint cf superior-
quality mixture for Coughs,
Colds and Sore Throats. A
pint of ready-made mixture
would cost at least 12/-.
HEENZO costs only a/-.
Moral: Use HEENZO and
save 10/-
Martin’s Pills are .old by all chemists and
stores. Ladicr. recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemirt, Southami ' on.— Advt.
King George IV
”1
a
th e'TOP NOTCH scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
“Steve Hurt” : I reckon the quandong has
the longest loots of any vegetable in Australia. Ran
one the other day and found it 105 ft., and it was
never deeper than oin.
“H.V.E.”: Every bushman has his dead
cert boil cure. Here are a few. Scoop out a hollow
in a small onion and bind the bulb over the sore.
Keep it on all night and by morning its work will
be done. Another stringy-bark pathologist recom-
mends a small lump of “rosin” (pine resin, same as
is used for fiddle-strings) ground into Powder, mixed
with jam and swallowed. Said not only to be
efficacious in regard to existing boils, but also a
prophylactic. One bush vet. swears by shreds of
nutmeg chewed fine and swallowed, while a fourth
lauds the virtues of flower of sulphur made into a
paste with butter and taken in pill form. The way-
back herbalist, however, seldom turns dog on the
awful concoction which results from brook-lime
(hyssop) boiled down with Epsom salts. Present
scribe finds most virtue in Venice .(commonly styled
“Venus”) turpentine used as a plaster; while the
sulphide of calcium (lime) pill is perhaps the most
effective remedy employed by the faculty. This last
cure not only hastens the departure of existipg boils
but prevents the formation of fresh ones.
* * * *
“Timberite”: Here’s a scrub-itch cure.
Immerse in the hottest water bearable, make a clean
change of clothes, and scald and dry the infected
togs. The blacks’ cure comes next—toasting the
bare hide before a fire, exposing every part in turn,
a trick effectively used in Wide Bay timber camps
by that superb old-time bushman, Moody Allen.
“.T. C. Smith”; A body (abo. for whirl-
wind) visited our little mission-school the other
day, and I was surprised to see the look of terror on
all the little dark faces. When 1 questioned them as
to why they were so afraid 1 was told numerous
strange stories, but the one that struck me must was
related by a tiny girl. Once long ago two old
women were looking for thistles. They had been out
all day and were returning very tired, when they saw
a whirlwind coming towards them. Try how they
would they could not avoid it. In the midst of the
dirt and sand they saw a man with a looking-glass in
his hand. This man worked the mirror so that it
dazzled the old women completely. One of them
fell face downward and the other was carried around
with the dust, unable to take her eyes off the mirror.
When the body had passed over the first old woman
got up, hut no trace was ever found of the other.
The man took her away with the aid of the magic-
glass. All aborigines are frightened of a booly.
They would run for miles to get away from one.
I have heard of both men and women getting off a
sick bed to stagger , out of the way.
AND SHE THOUGHT SUE WAS ALL THE WORLD TO HIM.
HIS DEAR ONE : “Did you have a satisfactory interview with father, dear?"
HER DEAR ONE : “ Er —not very. He said all he would give, me was his consent .”
A GOOD SEASON.
DAD: “What do they call this darnce, Bill?"
BILL : “ Springtime .”
DAD: "Must he plenty feed about by the look of the calves."
“Melos”: To quell the argument let me
megaphone that the black snake produces young in
batches of 15 to 20. The copper-head, which ranges
in color from reddish-brown to black, has more than
double that number at each increase. Now you can
all go to bed.
* * * *
“Trallwm” : It was midnight when an
excited Yarraville (Vic.) resident panted up to the
night-duty 'policeman with a story that there was a
burglar trying to force the lock of his shop door.
Sure enough, when John reached the spot there was
the villain crouched in the deep doorway, a tousled
creature with a grey-black beard ! As the two men
rushed up the would-be robber rose to his full height,
waved a bone-handled blue-steel pistol at his assail-
ants, and lunged at them viciously,, John unslung his'
revolver, knocked aside the burglar’s weapons—-for
there how seemed to be two of them—and lassoed
him skilfully round the neck. Therf he hauled out
his prisoner—an ancient goat, one of many of the
species that roam the streets and vacant lots of
Arcadian Yarraville.
“H.M.” : Lend a hand. I have a valuable
fox-terrier bitch about one year old. Five months
ago she apparently was troubled with worms, but
after a course of pellets she seemed to be right. Not
long afterwards, however, she began to stagger, and
finally dropped. For two days she remained down ;
then she regained her feet, although she was very
groggy for some day's. For three months she has
been well, but she has.peculiar fits, especially when
feeding. She looks at the food, then growls, then
does a whirlwind dance in an endeavor to bite her
rump, yelping all the time. The extreme tip of the
tail is raw with biting.
* * * *
“Bung”; People who advocate that native
trees should be planted along main roads should
first attack the regulation, in \N. S. Wales,
at any rate, that requires every bush within
half a chain of a roadside to be grubbed out. Where
there are overhanging trees that endanger the traffic
the rule is good, but the instruction that guides the
roadman is to pluck up everything that grows higher
than the grass, irrespective of how beautiful or
harmless the shrub may he. On the South Coast
roads many glories that once delighted the eye of
the traveller have been thus demolished. The road-
man is not allowed any discretion in the matter.
Near Cobargo 1 knew an artistically-inclined toiler
who took much pains in trimming-up an avenue of
gum saplings which he had allowed to remain when
cleaning out the bigger stuff. When the inspector
bluchered along he ordered the removal of the orna-
ments at once, if it couldn’t be done sooner.
(Continued on page 2A)
“Gnzooma”: Coranderrk, where the Vie.
Government looks after the last of the old Yarra
tribe, begins to look very empty; and arrangements
arc being made for moving the remnants to the Lake
Tyers station. There are very few dinkums left,
and the 20-odd relics pale off from King Billy and
his family to the ahnost-vvhite lower classes. The
younger men earn good money on the surrounding
farms, but his Maj. replenishes his exchequer by
holding a sort of levee on Saturday mornings, when
he and a few of the peerage give exhibitions of
boomerang-throwing and fire-making in the old style,
what time the Imperial hat is passed round amongst
the holiday-makers from Healesville. The kiddies
cater for .another section by singing Moody and
Sankey hymns to an accompaniment played by one
of their number; for the corroboree has given place to
the catechism and the bull-roarer to the harmonium.
In the afternoon William lays aside the cares of
state and pTbceeds to invest the weekly revenues in
one of the local billiard-saloons. The old chap is a
great pool enthusiast and handles a cue as well as
any of them.
“Billjim Quiescent” : Have never noticed
any reference- to the singing frog. Its song is one
-of the most interesting sounds of the bush, but one
must fix attention on the quaint noise for a consider-
able time to appreciate the fact that these little
reptiles warble to each other with method, in
noticeable rotation and with many of the attributes
of real harmony. The'bass invariably begins with a
slow rhythmic cadence of five to seven notes. There
is a slight pause and a baritone joins in with a
slightly quicker, but more sedate roll of 10 to 12
notes. Another pause, and a tenor or soprano, with
a fast staccato tremolo, ends the overture. Often the
bass will begin the second round, when some im-
petuous high “C’s” at a distance cut him short, an cl
then there is quiet for fully three minutes, suggest-
ing that the' interruption is resented. The overture
begins again with the bass, and tuns through another
score, this time ending up with a bizarre medley of
the voices in chorus. It seems to me that each
concert is composed of singers within a radius of
30ft. Any voice outside that limit is a hostile
institution. I have noted the same rotation of
voices night after night, and rarely does the bass
exert himself beyond seven notes, whilst the tenor
trebles that number. This coficert-paTty of mine has
four distinct overtures which I recognise each night.
Two are decidedly sentimental; one is suggestive of a
dashing march, and the other is nondescript, or at
the best only up to the standard of “What’s the
Matter with Father?” It W'as on March 2 that the
first singing frog ventured to lift its voice near my
camp last year. For three nights it appeared to be
merely applying for a job. When the answer did
come, there was a stirring chorus within an hour,
and it gained gradually in volume until the singers
settled down for five months.
THE MISPLACED MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sagged upon the tender grass
Where twinkling butterflies
Coquetted with the scented mass
Of gum bloom. In his eyes
A dreamy speculation lay ;
His hat was knocked about;
His clothes were old, and fell away,
And from his broken boots in play
His curling toes peeked out.
“I ort ’ave 'bin a dook,” said he,
“Or else a noble earl.
’Ard work ain’t possible to me;
I wasn’t' born to whirl
A nax, or swing a navvy’s pick,
Or even shake a sword.
For all that, I’m amazin’ quick
With hard old drink, or soft young chick.
I ort ’ave bin a lord.
“I ’ate coarse clo’es ’n’ bread ’n’ cheese;
I’d love a royal bed,
With linen sheets ’n’ tapestries
Hung close above me ’ead.
I ’ave no gifts; I’m positive
I cannot do a thing,
’N’ through the changin’ year to live
I have to take what others give.
I ort ’ave bin a king.
“ ’N’ there are dooks, ’n’ lords, ’n’ earls
Who do not want to lie
’N’ watch the lily where it curls
Agin the driftin’ sky.
They’re up ’n’ doin’, so I’m told,
As long as they can see.
What good to them uncounted gold ?
The gift of ease they do not ’old—
They orter have bin me.
“This world is all a sorry mess.
It has its idle poor
Who can’t enjoy their idleness,
But suffer and endure.
It has its wealthy class that feels
For work a fearful itch.
Yet to the worthless poor it deals
Out endless stoush, but never weals
Tile undeservin’ rich!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


A “Murdoch”
Coat Sweater.
Get One Now
for the Winter.
If you want to invest in cosiness ancl comfort
during the cold winter days, just slip into a
Murdoch Coat Sweater. The handiest, most
serviceable and most comfortable garment you can
put on. It will keep you snug and warm on the
coldest day. These splendid garments are
v ir
z
V ✓ /
OUR OWN MANUFACTURE,
and for cold days and cold nights they are
simply ideal. They can be worn as inner
or outer garments, and they fit in. with
your comfort ideas just to aT. Now is
the time to make a close friend of a
Murdoch Coat, Sweater—-they are splen-
did values and a fine investment as health
defenders.
Men’s Coat Sweaters.
V Front, as illustration No. 2.
Small Men’s and Men’s ... 13/6, 17/6, 21-
O.S. Men’s ... 13/11, 16/6, 21/6, 23/6
In Navy, Grey and Brown.
Polo Collar Coat Sweaters, as illustration No. 1.
Small Men’s and Men’s ... 14/6, 18/6, 21/-
O.S. Men’s and Men's ... 14/11, 18/11, 22/.
In Navy, Grey and Brown.
Call and try on your size to-day or write Desk E.
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys
i
wwch tic fmmfi. action
l
%
■
*v«
ran
AATS TftE^B^SLYDE-STROKE
'i ' '"T ■ ■. 1 f' ' ."a
* ■■
.: ’
■w-'SS t(- wt-icw
evermmie
e
STROPPED
The“ Evermore
is not an ordin-
ary strqpper.
Its unique Slyde
Stroke action
enables you to
sharpen any
ray)r or safely
rajor-Hade with
the skill of an ex-
perienced barber
15-
Inclusive of adapters
lor the sharpening of
anysaJ&y-rajo/dddde
sinfi/e or douHeedfed
IP UNPROCURABLE WRITE TO PARTRIDGE AGENCIES LTQ
Box 1003 G. P.O. Sydney, or Bex W G.P.O. Auckland N.Z.
yom dmim ter de^nenstnatZ
LEVIATHAN
COAT SWEATERS
They combine warmth with comfort, and can-
not be excelled for Seaside and Mountain,
House and Garden, Sporting and General Out-
door Wear.
V-FRONT SWEATER,
of soft, woollen finish, made with V-opening (as shown
by inset No. 3) : colors, Grey or Navy; 36 and 38 in.
40 and 42 in. chests.
12/6 13/6
COAT SWEATERS,
with “Peter Pan” collar (inset No. 4). Navy only—SO and
38 in., 13/6; 40 and 42 in., 14/6. Grey only—36 and
38 in., 16/6; 40 and 42 in., 17/6.
ALL PURE-WOOL COAT SWEATERS.
These are our own special make, and have been designed
with the following distinctive features: Silesia-lined pockets,
taped seams to keep garment in shape, and sring, close-
fitting, ribbed cliffs. With V-front (inset No. 3) or “Peter
Pan” collar (inset No. 4). Colors: Cream, Grey, Navy or
Brown. Sizes, 36, 40, 44 in. chests.
Price 22/6, 25/-, 28/6 each.
THE “TRENCHER” SWEATER,
3
I ■'■l
m
m
The “ Trencher .
all pure wool. Colors: Cream, Grey, Navy or Brown. Collar may be worn in three ways —(a)
Turned down to form dressy wide lapels, as shown by large illustration; (b) turned up with
upper edge doubled over to give a double-collar effect (see inset No. 2) ; (c) extended to full
height, thus providing- a snug, close-fitting muffler collar (inset. No. 1).
Sizes 30 40 44 in. chests.
I'rice 25/- 27/6 ,31/- each.
3?
NATURAL WOOL & COTTON SINGLETS or UNDERPANTS.
Good winter weight; unshrinkable; Morlev’s English “Flying Wheel” Brand.
Singlets are strengthened at neck and finished with snug-fitting ribbed ends
and cuffs; can be had with long or short sleeves. Underpants are made with
extra long spliced seats and double crutches. WE RECOMMEND THIS LINK
•FOR ITS EXCEPTIONAL GOODNESS AND THE WONDERFUL SERA ICE 11
WILL GIVE.
Size 30in. (chest or waist) O/O
Size 40in. (chest or waist) . . 7/(>
NATURAL ALL PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR. Extra heavy winter
weight. Warm, cosy garments of soft Llama finish. Best English make-the
farnous “Flying Wheel” Brand. Will give excellent wear. Singlets can be had
with long or short, sleeves.
Sizes 3Gin. 38in. 40in. 42in.
Singlets .... 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6
Underpants .. 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
Cj
BRITISH-MADE
.
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
tc
A
10-inch
DOUBLE*
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
Some Splendid Examples of Regal Records
at 2/6 each.
ALL 10-INCH—DOUBLE-SIDED.
G 7249
(A Long. Long Trail (Duet) < Stuart & Burton.
( Just a Plain Silver Locket Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
G 7314
Somewhere in France F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
When I Leave the World Behind F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
G 7297
(Are You From Dixie? (Duet) F. W. Ramsey arid Stanley Kirkby.
( When Paderewski Plays F. W. Ramsey and Stanley Kirkby.
G 7407
Down Where the Swanee River Flows Trevor and Thompson.
Oh, How She Could Yacki Hacki Wicki Woo Trevor and Thompson.
G 7270
s Boys of the Dardanelles March Band of ELM. Scots Guards.
1 High School Cadets March Silver Stars Band.
G73G5
J March of the Anzacs
I Kitchener’s Brigade March
Band of H.iM. Welsh Guards
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
„ ,
G 7415
$ Poor Butterfly
I For Me and My Gal
... F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
... F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
G 7416
( Hawaiian Butterfly F- Ramsey,
( They Won’t Have He F. W. Ramsey.
baritone.
baritone.
G 7318
.When You Come Home Erie Randolph, tenor
tin an Old-fashioned Town Eric Randolph, tenor.
G 7286
(Australia Will Be There
[ Australia Will Be There March
... Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
G7372
( Mother Machree
1 When the Robins Nest Again
Will Oakland, counter-tenor.
Will Oakland, counter-tenor.
<16830
$ Marche Lorraine
l Old Comrades March
King’s Military Band.
King’s Military Band.
G 7362
\ Hello, Hawaii. How Are You? Stanley Kirkfcy, baritone
| Yaaka Hula Hickey Hula Stanley Ivirkby. baritone
G 7389
f Washington Post March (Concertina solo). Alex. Prince.
I Stars and Stripes for Ever March (Concertina solo) Alex. Prince.
G 7161
t Angels’ Serenade
1 Simple Aveu .. .
Violin, Flute and Harp Trio.
Violin. Flute and Ilarp Trio.
G 7238
( When You’re a Long, Long Way From Home Trying (Gillette, tenor.
1 You Broke My Heart Irving Gillette, tenor.
G 6273
i Terry, My Blue-eyed Irish Boy
1 Where the River Shannon Flows ....
William Thomas, tenor.
William Thomas, tenor.
G 6745
The Sunshine of Your Smile William Thomas, tenor.
The Woman Thou Gavest Me John Adams, tenor
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., DakingHouse, Ravvson Place.
MELBOURNE. ATC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wcrtheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King: and King:, Ltd., Queen Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield &.4 T len Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


A HANDY REMEDY FOR
INDIGESTION AND DYSPEPSIA.
For a long time it has been recognised
that bisura ted magnesia forms the best of
all remedies for indigestion, dyspepsia, heart-
burn, flatulence and other forms of digestive
and stomach trouble, many remarkable cases
having been reported by those who have made
a practice of taking half a teaspoonful of
this simple antacid in a little water after
meals. Only one difficulty stood in the way
of the universal adoption of this method of
treatment, and that was in the original pow-
der form bisurated magnesia was not adapted
for use by those who were compelled to take
meals away from home. But even this slight
difficulty lias at last been overcome, and the
genuine bisurated magnesia is now' available
in the form of small compressed tablets, put
up in handy pocket flasks, and obtainable of
high-class chemists everywhere.— Advt.
i
He Knows It’s Meggitt Time
riEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL IS EASY TO FEED.
Try
m
HOT WATER IS NOT NECESSARY.
MEGGITT’S is All Food. Absolutely Pure.
on Portion of Your Stock and Compare Results.
GO
MNSEEooaMt^
'^ssc
n
r\EDGI 11
PARRAMATTA
Mr * barter, Manager of A. Hordern’s Guernsey Stud, of Bowral, says: —“l have used
Meg gift s Meal for the past six years, and found it excellent for getting cattle into
condition. It also increased the yield of milk and butter-fat production .”
Pamphlet No. 2, instructing how to feed, mailed free.
FU Clarkson Ltd fi Adrian^* H ® rri ?°" s^ Ramsa y Ltd., Melbourne; Win. Adams Ltd., Perth;
Queen Street s*®?* & Co;, <5.P.0. Box Wellington; K, S. Exton & Co. Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane; F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
MEGGITT LTD.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil
Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King Street, Sydney.
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality .
“Shepherd”: Allow me to have a say as
to the sagacity of birds in finding water. “H.W.F.”
(B. 4/4/T8) is correct in praising galahs, but when
he puts these cockies before the bronzewing pigeon
he’s right out of it, like the Crown Prince at
Verdun. The bronzewing, too, is the easiest of
bushies to follow by sound, and at dusk many a
weary traveller strains his ears for the eaw-caw-coo
of the bird, which always camps near water and
continues his anthem from the time he goes to drink
till he falls to sleep.
* * * *
“Riom”: It was up on a Gulf Country
station, and it was the first visit of a parson for a
donkey’s age. Of course, he must christen the kid.
Mother handed out a Prayer Book saying (with a
happy smile at her luck in finding it): “You see,
Mr. Twiddlethum, we have the Scriptures if we are
far from church.” The pilot reverently opened the
covers, and as he did so the contents floated out in a
cloud of dust. White ants! I was the kid to be
operated on, and I can see the look of horror on
mother’s face yet.
THE PRIZE.
“I wonder what the Germans would like to
take Australia for?”
“Well, y’ oughter seen some of the champion
cows down at the Easter show.”
“Bad Australian”: So “Leo Lear” has
discovered a rock wallaby in the gorges of N.E.
Victoria with a bunch of fur on its further extremity
exactly like a fox’s, and its favorite haunt is the
kurrajong top! This discovery surprises me, as I
thought I knew much about the fauna of N.E.
Vic. May I take the liberty of asking “Leo”: (1)
What part of the Upper Murray country or N.E.
t ic. is the habitat of this curious furry-tailed wal-
laby which climbs the kurrajong? (2) What he
means by “kurrajong” tree (the scientific monniker
will identify the vegetable)? (3) When did the
wallaby or ’roo family quit wearing the coarse,
bristly hair which always ornamented and protected
the farthest end of its reinforcement in the bad old
days of my youth? (4) Is “Leo” prepared to
solemnly deny that he was thinking of the foxy-
tailed, black-pointed, giant silver-grey mountain
’possum—the ’possum with the grunt—which climbs
trees and is as much like a fox as any ’possum knows
how to be?
* •♦ * *
“H.W.F.”: Over 50 years ago I saw an
American, who was making a damper, use “yeast”
made by dropping hot coals into water as described
by “A.V.H.” (B. 11/4/’18). After straining he
used the water to mix with the flour. Probably it
is carbonic-acid gas that causes the dough to rise.
Anyway, the damper when cooked was O.K. and light.
“Dug-out”: Who said that strychnine will
kill any animal? Let me answer that it won’t
stiffen swine. Last year I had a very fine crop
of jam melons that were greatly admired by a
herd of pigs from a neighbor’s farm. In a few
days the crop began to diminish at an alarming
rate, so I strolled over and begged Wire-whiskers
to keep his livestock at home. After a third pro-
test without success I issued an ultimatum, threaten-
ing his hams with destruction by poison if they
persisted in their ravagings. A' deaf ear was
turned to this threat also, so I set to work. Select-
ing half a dozen large melons I cut each into
four parts, carefully inserted poison in the pieces
and served the dessert to the porkers, who ate it
with great relish. Next morning I got up extra-
early expecting to see the countryside strewn
with dead swine. The place was certainly strewn
with swine, but they were all very much alive and
boring into my patch with even greater energy
than before. I brought a 22-caJibre rifle to bear
on the subject then and peace was soon signed.
* * * *
“Umfaan”: Camels are supposed to be
useful animals in Australia, but in Egypt, when I
was in the Camel Trans-
port Corps, we mad,e
racers out of them. Our
captain, a Victorian,
conceived an idea for a
saddle. It was the ordi-
nary-issue, military-pat-
tern affair, but with
padding underneath to fit
the conformation of the
camel’s back. With the
addition of a couple of
surcingles fore and aft
and a crupper of rope,
the wildest camel became
an easy thing for a
horseman to ride. We
guided by the kazam.
Then we threw out chal-
lenges far (and wide for
races—white men up.
We always won. In fact,
we were trying to teach
special Hegeems to jump
when we were recalled to
our respective units on
the departure of the
main body of Anzacs to
Prance. The trot of, the
camel on our saddles' was
easier than a horse.
Other camel transport
commanders rode from
every camp to obtain the
pattern of our saddles.
Incidentally, the camel
of Egypt is an unusual
beast. One day mine
sneezed out of his nos-
tril a thing the size and
approximate shape of a
cockroach, but white —
white with the whiteness
of something taken from
the depths of an under-
ground sunless cave. The
native vet., who was near
by, picked the horror up
and laid it on his palm.
It was nothing, he said,
•merely a parasite which
lives on the brain and
comes out when full
grown!
“Block 10”: The best thing I ever heard
(or saw) come from “Jimmie Pannikin” was when
he was examining my class a couple of years ago.
Asked to give a geography lesson, Pm afraid I played
to the gallery a bit by choosing the cow country as
my subject. When it was over Inspector “Pannikin”
bounded from the table. “And now, boys,” he
said, “did you ever see a cow-cocky shake hands?
No? Well, come here, my lad, and I’ll show you.
‘Good-morning, Mr. Shorthorn, and how are you?
How do you think the war’s going? Wonderful
season this, isn t it ? The rest was drowned in
laughter, for my noble was busy jmlking the kid’s
Angers into an imaginary bucket.
JUSTIFICATION FOR HIS EXTINCTION.
THE ABTIST: “I can’t say Art has ever given me much of a living.”
HIS CANDID FRIEND: “Considering your idea of Art you’re lucky to he allowed to live at
all.”
“Cudjewa”: As a cure for rheumatism,
try the Australian clematis, which grows all along
the southern coast of the continent. Binghi used
it frequently for bruises, cuts and sprains, and his
decoction possessed certain anaesthetic powers of a
remarkable strength, removing pain as well as heal-
ing. I have seen cases of severe rheumatism among
the old settlers in the Cape Otway and Mt. Gambier
districts practically cured by the use of this plant.
The leaves and stems are stewed for three or four
hours. After the?' liquid cools, bottle it securely.
For cuts, etc., rub it on the affected part; for
rheumatics, make a bath of it diluted freely with
water. I’ll back it for the above-mentioned pur-
poses against any patent medicine on the market.
“Kell B.”: No wonder Australian horses
are murdered when £1 1 Os. is the price offered
for “breaking in” a good animal. Men who
know their business are not to be had for
that. Last January I finished a mob at
Mvalla station at £3 per head and am
now at work on 50 at Wangoola. These I am
educating—not “breaking” anything about them;
neither spirits, constitution nor anything else should
be broken in order to teach a horse its work —at the
same figure, accommodation for self and understudy
given in. Before the war Germany paid a pupil
of mine a handsome sum (after putting my system
to a severe test, making discipline the cardinal
virtue) to teach remount officers; yet, although,
before this, the system had been offered to the
N. S. Wales Agricultural Department, the “break-
ers” in this country are still at large. They even
“teach” Hawkesbury College students, although
Professor Stewart, who was deputed to report
to the Government on a test in the Sydney Show
Grounds given by the aforesaid pupil of mine
about nine years ago, pronounced it to be a great
improvement on the old, clumsy, unscientific devices.
I’m not saying that many old-style breakers were
not very smart men with a horse; and often good
results were obtained when the horse’s instinct
was keen and true enough to make up for the follies
of unscientific usage. But why doesn’t the R.A.S.
committee settle the question by giving £lOO
prize to the man who gives the most practical
demonstration of horse handling? The Society
spends much to encourage the better breeding of
horses, and surely the better handling of them is
almost equally important. Let anyone ask Dr.
Maekellar what Germany thought of this question
before the war and how much the Hun would spend
on the education of a horse, especially a war horse.
“J.A.G.”: The only cocksure way of pre-
venting mice getting into bagged wheat is to put
it on stands with tin protruding over the supports
in the shape of an arrowhead and then erecting
an iron fence around as a double precaution. It costs
little.
• * • •
“Mick Anick”: In Bananaland I had a
paw-paw tree which would produce only male
flowers. Someone told me to drive an iron nail
into the trunk and I’d have better luck. I
put in three for good measure, and after
that got 75 per cent, of female flowers and a
correspondingly good fruit-crop. I passed
the remedy to others who were troubled in
the same way and it never failed. The posi-
tions of the nails didn’t seem to matter,
nor did the time of driving them.
“Condowrie”: An emu taught me what
great alterations in animal habits a change of environ-
ment makes. We caught this fellow young and
kept him as a pet. Our home had a salt-water
frontage and we kids used to put in our spare time
bathing and paddling in the bay. Always we took
Bill with us, and he soon enjoyed the water like a
duck, and swam nearly as well as one. Another
hobby of his was devouring young crabs and small
fish, and this habit never left him even when he
grew to full size.
* * * *
“Pick” : Bees do not often take up their
residence underground, but in the crevices under a
granite precipice beside the Maclaughlin River, on
Monaro (N.S.W.), many colonies have defied the
chilly winters and honey-hunters for decades. ' Their
comb, hanging in sheets among the clefts 20 feet
inwards, is estimated at tons. On an early summer
day, when the wattle orchard is blooming below,
the myriads of foragers almost shadow the gullies.
A similar bee-city once flourished uninvaded above
the breakers on the sea-wall cliffs of Point Perpen-
dicular. It was demolished by a mighty fall of
rock.
* # * *•
“Bacon Stealer” : Billjim was due for leave
to Blighty, but at the last moment all liberty
was stopped. Discussing his bad luck with his mates
he remarked: “I’m that unlucky that if I was an
angel flying about in Heaven some would shoot
me for a crow!”
QUEERED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Buchanan was an axeman bold ;
No rival had he in the land.
The championship he’d sworn to hold,
And when he stood up, axe in hand,
And set a log, the chips that flew
Hid Angus from the people’s view.
The axeman dearly loved his blade.
It shone like silver in the sun
With every swinging stroke he made ;
And when the sudden chop was done
He patiently for hours would sit
And put a razor-edge on it.
Then came a Tassy, long and slim,
And challenged Angus to a match—
Of course our champion jumped at him.
The chop came off in Thaller’s patch.
The stranger won. Sad Angus said:
“It beats me, boys; my axe was dead!”
That evening Angus took his mate,
And nearly killed the hapless bloke.
We knew he had deserved his fate
When Angus stammered, fit to choke:
“He put me on the bloomin’ shelf—
He used my axe to shave himself!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


A Pleasant Journey!”
It’s almost superfluous to wish it when
DUNLOP TYRES
&
l,
/
/
/
m
s^-
m
-n
%
'Mh
\
kl
\
©
JfcS
are fitted to your car. There’s no doubt that
the quality and strength of the Australian-made
“Dunlop” ensures a freedom from the many
tyre troubles associated with the use of light
weight poor quality covers and tubes. Extra
strength is needed for our road conditions, and
you get it in “Dunlops~for Satisfactory Service is
built into every cover and tube that leaves
our Mills. This means that you get thousands of
miles of running at a cost considerably lower than
from imoorted tyres. “Dunlops” cost you less to
buy (no customs charges inflating
their price) less for upkeep—
and above all give
you the maximum
mileage. No tyre
can give you more
—few give you as
much. Always fit
Dunlops—it pays!
* * *
POPULAR SIZES
ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO*
ALL STATES & N.Z.


NFS
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, CROUP AND COLDS.
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
who have had occasion to take Hearne's Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Lower. Sufferers from iiron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most com ort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud,” or serious illness may follow.
■mk
-^1
i*
2
P
K
I
■
SS2
IK3FW
15.
&
Kmo^ltr-S^ITM-
“ An Excellent
Preparation.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at
Sydney, n.s.w.; Wellington, x.z
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Ornis” : The wharfie whisky-wasters
mentioned by “Oyo” (B. 4/4/T8) were
amateur bunglers compared with the gang
that recently operated on sugar stored in
sheds on the new wharves at Launceston.
As the decking had shrunk somewhat, tar-
paulins were first laid down. The doors
were kept locked, and a watchman put on.
When the time came to empty the sheds,
the bottom tier of bags were found flat -and
empty, each with a slit in the under side.
Each slit corresponded with one in the tar-
paulins directly over spaces in the planking.
The method of the sugar shifters was simple.
When the tide was a&pui half-way up the
piles, a boat was taken under the wharves
as near as possible to the stores, and then
it was only a matter of crawling over the
ties, knife and bucket in hand, until the
right spot was reacted.
“Croson”: No; as The Bulletin says,
the latest scheme of the Commonwealth
Government isn’t likely to result in Aus-
tralia growing much flax. The British
Government has offered the Commonwealth
Government £I7(J a ton for fibre delivered in
England, and the price fixed for the raw
flax is £5 per ton. This is how it works out:
13 tons of raw flax equals one ton of fibre,
and before the war the Victorian flax mills
offered from £2O to £33 for enough raw flax
to produce one ton of fibre, for which they
received from £4O to £43. That paid the
growers so ill that the mills presently had to
shut clown for lack of raw material. Now it is
proposed to pay the grower £O3 for what
will yield the mills £l7O, less freight, etc.
The miller would seem to he on a good
wicket, hut th(> grower—well, considering
the present prices of wool, wheat, mutton,
■etc., the chances are the grower won’t grow
flax.
“T. 0.1.” : The jubilee of St. John’s Angli-
can Church, Glebe (Sydney), recalls that
soon after the tabernacle was built a publi-
can’s license was applied for in respect of a
house near by. The pilot of the church, a
Creole named Saliniere, anil his congrega-
tion violently opposed the application, but
it was a time when J’s.P. crowded the Bench
on licensing days and granted tickets for
anything that had a roof. So the license
was obtained and the publican added insult
to injury by naming his grog-shop St. John's
Tavern. It continued to mock the holy
children till 1882.
* * * *
“J.S.N.” : How is this for an extra steady
job? One I’riddy, of Gympie, Bananaland,
has for the past 30 years been town grave-
digger. It is the first and only billet he has
had since he came to the country. During his
time he has filled une cemetery, and has a
new one well on the way. Now 82, he is
getting beyond hard digging, but is still
always there to superintend.
* * * *
“Noana” : Re Victorian doctors and lodges.
“Ato” (B. 11/4/T8) states that it is the
nound-a-week sick-pay that draws people into
lodges and the medico is merely a side-line.
Perhaps “Ato” will explain, then, why the
A.N.A. does not flourish in X. S. Wales and
Bananaland. where cheap medical attention
\yas denied the members. 1 am glad, by the
way. to have “Ato’s” assurance that the
lodges are making a profit out of the medical
pool. Everybody should he satisfied now—the
doctors certainly are.
“Oof Bird”: Among the most audacious
gold thieves who flourished on the Westralian
fields in the bloom days was a German mine-
manager who worked in with another Ger-
man. the owner of a treatment plant, and
stole amalgam and zinc slimes wholesale.
Both grew very wealthy, and when the
Chamber of Mines detective force began to
get around they hurriedly left the country.
Another was an assayer with a small reduc-
tion plant, who had a baker as a partner.
The baker collected telluride ore specimens
on his rounds and secreted them in the
loaves which he delivered to the assayer.
A lucrative business, was done in this way.
A third, head of a syndicate of three, was
metallurgist on one of the big mines. A
barmaid received the stolen stuff from him
and passed it on to the owner of an alleged
gold-producing show for treatment. All
three shared alike and made a lot of money.
Scores got nice-sized parcels of gold to-
gether and then went out into the bush and
made “new finds.” The papers raved about
the prospects of these for a little while and
then the announcement of "a return” enabled
the finders to lodge their gold in the hank
without any questions being asked. Nowadays
the bank officials are more inquisitive and
the police inure watchful.
“Mookumwvbra" : During the currency of
the war the N. S. Wales Forestry Depart-
ment is allowing millers a rebate of 10 p.c.
of the timber royalties. Why are they
singled out for preferential treatment as tax-
payers? Either the royalties are just, and
should be paid in full, or they are inequitable,
and should not have been increased. The
war is no excuse whatever for the rebate.
On the contrary, in fact. Other taxes have
been increased on account of the war, and
sawmiHers are, by reason of the stoppage
of imports, on a much better wicket than
they have been for a long while. And it is
a long while since they were on a bad one.
* * * *
“0.K.” looks into another cradle :—*
The prettiest of local mechanical industries is
flourishing at Collingwood, where the Australian.
Weaving Co. lias an unpretentious factory, and
holds land available for a large extension when the
times and the tariff are ripe. Some nine or 10
years ago Henry Hatton, a well-known Melbourne
canvasser, suggested to Emery and Regg, a firm of
ticket-writers, that the demand for woven labels,
which all came from Europe, called for local supply.
They put their heads and funds together and started,
in a small way, the Australian Weaving Co., with
Ifatton as manager. Seven years back they brought
out Charles Underwood from England to run the
silk factory, together with a foreman and a consign-
ment of girls learned in the craft. Initiation of
Australian hands has followed in due course. The
eo., as its beautifully-woven card sets forth, manu-
factures woven labels for coats, waterproofs, rugs,
blankets, underclothing and ties; also cap ribbons,
hatbands, badges—in fact, any ticket with silk
lettering on it that isn’t too big for the looms. Thus
the local clothing-manufacturing trade is relieved of
the necessity to import “stylish” labels for its goods;
the Pelaco shirt factory, for instance, keeps one of
the looms constantly employed in turning out 7000
shirt-labels per week. At present the Weaving Co.,
employing 70 hands, confines its energies to the pro-
duction of small fancy goods; and from these to the
weaving of piece goods is a far step. But the co.
has them in prospective.
» » * *
“Floater": “0.K.” says (B. 25/4/’18)
that the local woollen manufacturers have
failed “to seize this war opportunity” and
goes on to remark that “the mills are as
backward as ever.” As a matter of fact,
the Australian mills have grabbed the oppor-
tunity with both hands. To my own
knowledge, one of the Ballarat mills is only
limited in its production by the capacity of
its machinery. It is turning out excellent
all-wool material, which is going directly on
to the hacks of Australians without the con-
nivance of the importers in Flinders-lane.
The reason why this, is not; generally known
is that the local consumer has his absurd
prejudices flattered by being told that his
Australian suit was made by an English
loom. Many a man in the Commonwealth
is wearing alleged “English tweeds” which
came from Mnrrickville, Ballarat or Geelong.
Admittedly the Australian cloth has not
quite the finish of the best imported ; but its
life is greater because there is more of the
real stuff' in it. And nothing can take the
place of that —superior workmanship or any-
thing else.
* -X- * *
“E.D.” : The best bit of bluff I’ve met was
pulled off in the bad days following the boom.
Three Bohemians in -Melbourne—a freelance
paragrapber and bard, a promising young
artist, and a gentle hornblower in a local
theatre orchestra —came, by a stroke of for-
tune. into possession of the centre house of
a rather fine suburban terrace. The French
born, in point of fact, had been appointed
caretaker in the absence of profitable tenants.
The three moved in, and on the fifth night the
bard awoke in his bed on the floor to find a
stranger standing bewildered among the few
trifles that furnished the room. “Hello!”
sold the versifier blandly, “who are you?”
The man presented a revolver. , “You won
five hundred at the races to-day.” he said.
“I’ve been put on to you, ’n’ I want it.”
“Some mistake,” said the bard. “Oh. no.
there ain’t. Mr. Wallstein —me information’s
good. So fork it over.” “All wrong,” said
the bard. “You had better try next door on
the right.” “Ah, rats!” snorted the burglar.
“I was in there, ’n’ the bloke told me Wall-
stein lived in here.” The bard sat up to hand
out a clinching argument: “See here,” he
said. “If I’d won £5OO I’d never go to bed.”
With an oath the burelar looked around the
bare room and fled. The man whom he had
first visited on the right was actually Wall-
stein. the party who had won the five
hundred.
THE PITIFUL LACK OF PENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three men I’ve known of recent years.
James,had a lih’ral miml.
lie felt the cark of all the cares
That torture humankind.
A thousand pounds a year had he.
cripple in the ditch
’Twould tear his gentle heart to see.
lie said: “These evils would not be
If I were only rich!”
Dear Ernest was another friend.
Each fortnight of his life
lie had good eighty pounds to spend,
And kept a frugal wife.
His heart went out in pity to
The wretch without a stitch,
The dozens who in anguish stew.
“To think,” said he, “what I might do,
If I were oiilv rich!”
The third of these an income had
Of sixty pounds a week.
And human suffering made him sad.
I often heard him speak
Of yearnings that possessed his soul.
Said he: “I fairly itch
To lift the fallen, as a whole.
Ah, Snell, I'd play a splendid role,
If 1 were only rich'!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.
NEW HATS FOR OLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Author’s note; The theological purpose of this
poem is to trace, as far as possible, the assimilation
of a hat by a personality.)
Whene'er a nice new hat I get
I hurry round the town and fret;
As stiff as steel and just as dead
Seems that strange curse upon my head
I don’t belong to it, and fear
That old friends sighting it may sneer ;
It is too smooth and brushed, I see.
For that old worried face that's Me.
My old hat is a trusty friend,
Scrapped like most friends are in the end;
This strange new thing I’d like to drop
In some dark drain, reeks of its shop.
It makes the rest of me look old
Till once along the street it’s rolled
.By sportive winds amongst men’s feet;
That makes it lose its stiff conceit.
Then one day, all its newness gone,
It meekly roosts my head upon ;
Battered and shabby as can be,
I know 7 at last it’s part of Me.
N.s.w*.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
The Inky Way.
Such is the paper shortage in England that,
in addition to those that have gone out
altogether, more than 800 dailies and week-
lies have been forced to raise their selling
price. The Times has gone hack to three-
pence. in order, as it quaintly puts it, to
reduce its circulation. There have, of course,
been pourparlers in Australia too ; but so
far only some of the country papers (which
as a rule don’t compete with one another)
have been able to come to any agreement.
Still, the chances are that something will be
forced upon the bigger offices before the
trouble is all over. And if they come to-
gether for that they will probably come to-
gether for the co-operative purchase of
paper after the war.
* * * *
“Pilk”; Over here a Billjim never appears
without his 01’ Brown Hat, and is not known
in a Tommy cap; yet nearly every Austra-
lian paper produces pictures which show
him as a sort of loose-built Tommy. Tell
them, please, to stop it. Our “slouch” is
our trade-mark ; and how do you think an
angel would feel about it if. when he went
away on an expedition, the papers of
heaven pictured him wearing, not wings, but
a spiked tail?
* # # *
“Glen Iluntly” : I nominate C. J. Dennis
as the handiest man among Australian
poets. He is as much at home with a spoke-
shave as with a foumtaini-pen. He made
the writing-table at which he works —not
only put it together, but cut and polished
the timber; laid on his own water-supply
at Tolangi, and built most of his own furni-
ture and a good deal of the house. Also
he repairs his own motor-bike and watch,
and a while back, being seized with a desire
to address Doreen in song suitably accom-
panied, set to work and made himself a
banjo.
• • « •
“J.F.H.” from London : :
I hope things have changed; but in my day -in
Australia the general experience of reporters seemed
to correspond with the facts and impressions recorded
in a strongly-worded “remonstrance” from a leading
London reporter in the latest issue of the Christian
World, the most largely-circulated of the English
Protestant weeklies. Speaking from an experience
of 25 years, this writer says that at R.C. functions
he has invariably found a chair reserved for him
in the best possible position for seeing and hearing.
His work was further facilitated by the provision of
bocks supplying details and explanations of the
ceremonies of the day, and lists of the clergy and
prelates taking part were promptly passed round the
press table. Also a priest was alwai's in the vicinity
to answer with “easy, unobtrusive courtesy” any
questions that might occur to the unfamiliar or for-
getful or heretical inkslinger. And after the func-
tion was over there was generally a pleasant lunch
in the neighboring episcopal palace or presbytery at
which the pressmen were welcome and honored guests.
The agreeableness of the affair did not end even
there, for as a rule the editor next day received a
note from the presbytery or the palace conveying
thanks for the excellence and fidelity of the report.
“Such treatment as this is an enormous contrast to
that I frequently receive from the clergy of the Pro-
testant denominations.” He has repeatedly found it
a hard struggle to get even the “plain, ordinary
faets.” He declares that the most unpleasant
memories of his long journalistic career are asso-
ciated with the discourtesy and lack of consideration
so commonly displayed by clergymen of his own
faith. He wonders they do not perceive that “Rome
has a remarkably intelligent perception of the value
of the Press, even the little local paper.” They
often cavil at the undue notice and space given to
R.C. functions, but “forget that it is quite open to
them to study the comfort and convenience of the
Press and treat its representatives as considerately
and sympathetically as Rome does.”
From Dunedin Star :—-
Wanted (for Country Newspaper),
Competent Working-manager; must be capable of
taking up duties of sole editor and reporter, fully
Qualified to carry out duties of foreman printer and
understand all classes of job printing; also account-
ancy. Address, with copies testimonials, to
Office.
Just as well they headed it “Wanted (for
Country Newspaper).” Otherwise' hungry
applicants might have thought the chair of
some great daily was vacant.
STUMPED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In print I’m very solemn
(At home I’m only “Dad”) :
For I turn out the column
That deals with fact and fad -
There's not a single answer
I’m not supposed t<r know.
From “What's the cause of eanc-er?”
To “Where is Jellicoe?”
I am the office Solon —
An Inky WayzgoCse T;
From colophon to colon
There’s nought I can’t supply.
For speeches out of Hansard,
Or yearly falls of rain,
In “Information Answered”
You need not seek in vain.
And yet, when home arriving,
My long day’s labor done,
I find my best contriving
In vain with my small son.
Who mocks my aspect legal,
And asks why God made ants,
And wonders where the eagle
Has bought his “feather pants”:
And what's the solid reason
For freckles on my face;
And why there are no trees on
The road in Martin-place ;
And, when the dinner’s cooking,
If I can hear the smell.
And if the snails are looking
To find a better shell;
And “What makes worms go squiggle?”
And “Why are rabbits wild?”
And “Will dead tadpoles wiggle?”
lie asks in accents mild.
And, when my brain is addled,
I pause to wonder why
The paper should be saddled
With such a chump as I!
victoria.
THE OLD POT.


mwn
m
m
gsd
g
A DA MAX
M
♦
sdg
sd
'
r.u.iw> ■ ■ •!
- ri
■
.
. ■ ■
l
'• '■ ’
£'w
:- ..• "i:,
- - • * "V* <
gg if fb ( ;. 'd%
■ i
fSi
f m
r-
&-.lv
?>• • 1
1
XI
Ir*^.
-.
>*-
:
2»
i-t!!
feSt;
< ".
@ats
p
""""
VS
.
■J&<A 'V, 4 ' ■< v*'
tf . ' ;,.
It
l*'
j, g*- „ _ • -■, .
*‘ |
ttM****** 1 *
Wt»'
hHUk
H
Wf
«^s
' 1
V?.- ,
</ v t
H£
V&*’-...
sfi- ■
tm
IISiyMIPS
'* /> *' •
••■ ~H&
m : -M
mjm
u '- I }M
6 ?!$$
j#,- ': !>:«88H
• vHZ
W!
.»! >.'
if!
mz&im
&:.■ . ,m
urn- f^m
m
w. tm
jsr ;v®
|k,i; ,
Bfvsa
mMMmm
mkmmi
$«&
Bslt. ■
IKS*
.
.
:■: :V
vi *
1 I
< :
mm 3
lit
WMIsM
■'■ :th-t
* \-U : £*
tf>
t '.. ■
.
% .
The Big Jobs are the Real
Test in Roofing:.
N contracts on which many thousands of pounds are
expended the choice of the roofing is not made on a
low cost basis alone, and the fact that “ADAMAX”
ASPHALTUM ROOFING costs less per year of service
than any other permanent roofing would go for very little com-
pared with the fact that it is the best roofing to be had regard-
less of price.
Convincing proof of the superiority of “Adamax ” is shown by its
use on the following large buildings.
Leeton Canning Factories, 20,000 sq. yds.
West Australian Govt. Freezing Works, 13,200 sq. yds.
South Australian Wheat Board Building, 44,000 sq. yds.
Commonwealth Govt. Buildings, 22,000 sq. yds.
“Adamax” also secured the N.S.W. Govt. Railways Con-
tract year 1917-1918, and again 1918=1919.
"ADAMAX” is One-third the price of Iron,
and Railage is One-third that of Iron.
“ Adamax ” doos not affect drinking water, and does not
sweat, and is 12 to 14 degrees cooler than Iron. “ Adamax”
is supplied in rolls 72 feet long by 3 feet wide, and in three
thicknesses—l, 2 and 3 ply.
Consider these facts before deciding on the roofing for any
structure. Send for Free Booklet, samples and prices.
Obtainable from District Agent, or direct from
William AdamssCS;
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
PERTH : 33 King Street.
BRISBANE : Cor. Edward & Mary Streets.
ADELAIDE : 96 Currie Street.
or


A. Saunders’ Inkstand, pure silver-plated, A 1 quality,
liand-burnished, cut-glass bottles, 55/-
Modern Designs in Silver-plate
A. Saunders’ Preserve Dish, pure silver-
plated, ruby-tinted glass, without Spoon,
17/6.
A. Saunders’ Entr(*e Dish, pure silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £3/15/-
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, pure silver-
plate, A 1 quality, Hand-embossed edging, £4/4/-
A. Saunders’ Egg Frame and Spoons, pure silver-plated
60/
m
I ;
K
gsd
A. Saunders’ Tea and Coffee Service, pure silver-plated, A 1 quality,
comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar and Cream, Gilt-lined, with covers, beauti-
fully burnished and embossed design, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Card Receiver •'"’■e silver-plated, satin finish,
15/6.
A. Saunders’ Candlestick, pure silver
plated, highly burnished Leaf design,
11/0.
A. Saunders' Cheese Dish, pure silver-plated,
highly burnished, plain design, £4/10/-
$
m
m
m
wPm.
mm
'XiCti
mm
wm
M
zjstaa
mm
ui
A. Saunders’ Spirit Frame, Fumed English Oak, silver-
plated mounts, Hobnail-cut glass bottles, £ 5/5/-
fee
ss
uji'Fi]
i.i i'.iJ'MO-I
Cr jnijf
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the., day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium u)in without
lifting a hand?
safeguard your health
otJ.C®llis Broiling
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
couc.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, 3/-, o/-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS I BOOKS! BOOKS!
EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
n 917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. ' All
Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics' Work-
shop Handybook, 1/9. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5f- posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/-. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/6. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. How to Read Faces and
Heads, 1/6. Soldering. Brazing, Gasfitting, &c.,
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave. 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Plano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (liules for all Gaines), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3, Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 21-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/t posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 10d., 2/-. How-
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook. 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, doth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/-.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/9 posted.
One-Day, 1/3 posted. The Wizard’s Manual,
1/3. Speeches from the Dock, 2/-’. Life’s
Shop Window, 1/9. Three Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
\W~ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


fl
\
a
i)
L
CSft
ABBEY
SHOES!
The distinctive lines and smart
appearance of Abbey Shoes are a
desirable “finishing touch” to a
smartly-attired appearance.
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a choice Glace Kid Bal.,
with Patent Leather Toeeaps.
Price - 32/6.
Postage Extra.
Our footwear is made in half- and
full-sizes, and in three fittings —
narrow, medium and wide, thus en-
suring perfection of fit, and the
utmost fcomfort.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
SAUCE
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
SI
§
&
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
ARE YOU M
KUPTU RED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CQ.,
349 Collins St„ Melbourne, Vic.
GAPILLARINE
g
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to ita
genuineness and efficacy as a nioustache-
grawer. Rub it well into the roots and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Starts
throughout Australasia.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price fo» it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman- Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern.
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A* ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPERLY. General Manag'd'.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUES EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917 was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £s'upwards.
66
THE AUSTRALIAN
SKANDIA
99
<F
dsg
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
r ■
r*
£
jj \
IffiS
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney.
Wo Save
omr
m
mi
o£>\
'27
A terse but elo-
quent and very
welcome feature of
Field - Marshal
Haig’s recent
communiques.
Reaching their
objective has al-
ways been a dis-
tinguishing feature
of AVONS—
known as the tyres
that “get there."
1
y
J
n
>
%
L
7
V
Tributes to their many fine
qualities are continually being
received.
AVONS eliminate road de-
lays, save expense, and enable
users to always “gain their
objective. ’
a
s
Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
H. C. Pannifex, 22 Market Street, Melbourne.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Adelaide.
Queensland flotor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


A GOOD HAIR TONIC.
An excellent hair tonic that is invaluable
for keeping the scalp in a healthy condition,
destroying dandruff and making the hair
grow, is made by dissolving dram Menthol
Crystals in 3 ounces Bay Rum and then
adding 1 ounce Lavona de Composee. Let
it stand for half an hour and it is then
ready for use. Rubbed well into the scalp
with the finger-tips once or twice a day this
tonic will be found to be very beneficial,
scalp itching and irritation disappearing
almost immediately on applying. This pre-
scription contains no dye, and can be pre-
pared by any chemist, or you may procure
the ingredients and mix them yourself at
heme. — Advt.
PARAMOUNT
Loved by old
and young alike
for their wholesome
entertainment*
warn
■
PICTURES.
The pictures that
are known through-
out the world as
the best and clean-
est in every respect.
gds
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Always give the Hun the benefit of the
doubt.”-—Motto of many alleged Australians.
After all, there is hope for Australia.
Peter said “No” twice, as Australia has
done, denying its master, which is democ-
racy; yet Peter was able l afterwards to say:
“Stand up; I myself also am a man!” and
no slouch of a man either.
If Watt's jaw doesn’t belie him he will
have a violent row with the military and
probably also the naval heads within two
months- —he may hang out that long; cer-
tainly not longer. The whole circus reeks
of sham and make-believe, and one reason
why the arrival of the American into the
business is so enormously important is that
he isn’t standing the old nonsense. Hence,
for one thing, Focli’s appointment.
DOUBLE SHIFT.
TONY : “You say Toms returning to the
Front. But he's done his hit.”
MILLY : “Yes, I know. But he’s going hack
to do yours.”
At the very moment when the Defence
Department is feeling a little less gloomy
over the recruiting returns, it declares that
the rule about “general enlistment” must
continue. Yet the improvement in the
figures is the best of all proofs that the rule
is a rotten one, for recruiting fell away to
next to nothing until Carmichael came along
with authority to raise “a thousand,” with
the promise that they should "leave together,
train together and light together.”
One of the most humorous performances
of the military and naval administration of
Australia has been in the part of Sherlock
Holmes. For a little while troops used
to march proudly through the cities; and, as
the Americans know and as we have proved
too, nothing creates an atmosphere so favor-
able for recruiting as military marches
accompanied by martial music. Then, when
recruiting was doing quite nicely, Sherlock
Holmes came upon the stage. “Ah.” said
the wizard, “this won't do! If the Ger-
mans see these men marching down to the
wharves, some person among them may
guess that they tire going aboard.” Then
Sherlock Holmes, having made the ■wonder-
ful discovery all by himself, breathed hard,
and ordered the parades to cease and the
martial music to stop. From that moment
“A WEE DEOCH-AN-DORRIS."
troops were brought into the city at early
morn and marched without noise through the
streets and —ha. ha ! —the Germans were
outwitted! They didn’t know that the
troops in the camps were ever sent away;
they couldn’t see the cheerless, dispiriting
early-morning shuffles through the streets;
they were blind, of course, to the gather-
ing of relatives and sweethearts of the men
a*: the wharf ; they didn’t hear the cheerful
coek-a-doodling of every ferry-boat in the
neighborhood as the troopship pulled out;
they didn’t see her lying alongside mostly
for a whole day. So the amazingly
clever Sherlock Holmes saved our sol-
diers from the submarines. And in
due time he succeeded, with his brothers of
the military and his half-brothers of the
navy, in almost putting an end to recruiting.
A new man. Orchard. Minister for Recruit-
ing, has come upon the scene; and of course
he has kicked over the traces. The marches
have been restored. The music plays again.
The crowds cheer: the flags fly. And
recruits come in again. But we shall see.
They have started to tame him already. Or,
at least, they have started on the attempt.
The Boers, who have a rough gift of epi-
gram, divided the adult male community
during their big war into “hands-uppers”
and “bitter-enders.” The terms are worth
adopting. Carmichael might have done even
more than he did if he had advertised:
“Bitter-enders Wanted.”
Pearce has come again to the defence of
somebody or other’s suicidal scheme of
“general enlistment,” which is more or less
still in vogue.. Pearce says that it is quite
a mistake to suppose that all men enlisted
will be put into the infantry: when they get
to the other side they will be drafted into
engineers, artillery or other branch which
needs men and for which they appear most
suitable. This torpedoes Pearce’s own
case. The only justification for “general
enlistment” would be that all hands were
wanted for infantry. If. on the other hand,
men are wanted for other branches, why in
the name of commonsense shouldn’t they be
offered the inducement of service in those
branches? If a man knows that he is fitted
by inclination and training for, say, the
engineers, why not let him enlist for ’ the
engineers if that branch wants men? In
his youth Pearce wanted to be a carpenter.
What hope of getting Pearce’s services
would a contractor have had if he had said
to the young man : “You enlist with me. I
may make a carpenter of you; but then,
again, I may make a cook of you or a
blacksmith”? And what a fool the con-
tractor would be to say this if at that
moment he wanted a carpenter’s apprentice?
Labor in Victoria is of course entitled to
say ait revoir to its wits if it be so minded,
but it was a poor trick to put up solicitor
Holmes for the Flinders seat and then blast
his chances by pronouncements advocating
the repudiation of war debts and the
“immediate cessation of fighting, as peace
with a British victory is impossible.” When
you consider how pleased the Hun must
have felt at these official declarations, it isn’t
an unfair thing to suspect that the enemy
inspired them.
The Dutchman these days is between the
shallow, muddy sea and the deep, muddy
Hun. The Allies have borrowed some of his
ships, and he has protested. The Hun wants
to borrow some of his railways, and he
has protested. Also the
Hun demands a supply
of sa.id and gravel from Hol-
land, and part of the land
is below sea-level already.
If much gravel is dug out of
it the sea may come in. The
maintenance of the country’s
neutrality is like the effort to
balance a gallon of loose
water on a hair. If it gets
one ultimatum it will almost
certainly get another. Then
if it throws in its lot with
the Allies, the Hun will do
his best to make it another
Belgium. If it joins the Hun,
that person will borrow its
army and most of its goods,
giving the glad hand and an
lOU in return, while the
Allies will bombard its coast
and take its colonies. Cer-
tainly they may take them in
a friendly way, making allow-
ance for the country's diffi-
culties. But, then, Holland’s
second-best possession was
taken over in a friendly way
more than 100 years ago,
just to save it from the other
fellow, and the place was
never handed back. So the
man with Van before his
name—to distinguish him
from his neighbor Yon —
drinks his schnapps with no
light heart.
Within the past week or two proposals have
been made for (1) a complete holiday for
purposes of humiliation and prayer; (2)
ditto for Anzac Day; (3) ditto for Empire
Day; (4) ditto every Saturday, the working
week being cut down to 40 hours. How
about having a complete holiday when the
Huns land?
From George D. Meudell: —
The position is much too serious to be disregarded.
The financial heads ought to be got together: their
advice, after consultation, should be made available
to the Treasury. I estimate the ratio of gold to
deposits held by Australian banks at 64 p.c. (Decem-
ber, 1917) against 14 p.c. as at June, 1914 ; and the
total Australian holding of gold as 13 p.c. against 22
p.c. in June, 1914. Three actions are urgent:—
(1) Stop issuing notes.
(2) By edict, stop exporting gold.
(3) Float a gold loan in New York for the sole
behoof of the Treasury note issue, say, £20,000,000.
Two other actions ought to follow:
(4) Forbid importation of liqudr and luxuries.
(5) Offer a subsidy for gold-winning.
I was in the m:|gJstrom of 1890-5 and have financial
goose-flesh to-day.
THE OPTIMIST.
“Poor little darling! It must be his toosey-
pegs, or perhaps his little tummy."
“Anyway, my dear, there's no fear of sleep-
ing sickness."
Melbourne llekald puts up this heading:
Legislation Will Go On In Mr. Hughes's
Absence!" Thank Heaven! We thought
the whole denied thing would shut right up !
DIDN'T WANT TO BE PALE.
COLONEL; “Look here, No. 60, this will
never do! Why don't you salute me
when you see me?"
No. 60: “I dunno, Colonel. I ’ad a kinder
idea you ’ad me set!”
The fowl, having 10 walk all the way, may
be long in getting home to roost; but it
gets there. If Australia manufactured all
the requisites for a railway, railway-building
could progress, on a sound paper-money
basis, much as usual. But almost everything
is imported except the sleepers and the per-
manent way ; wherefore now, thanks to the
scarcity of ships and the ultimate fact that
foreign goods and freights call for gold
payments while gold is unusually scarce, the
mileage run on existing N. S. Wales lines
has had to be reduced by nearly 16 per cent,
through lack of vehicles, and there is a forced
reduction of 19 per cent, on tramway mileage
from the same cause.
OUR GENEROUS ATTITUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The more European nations are interested in the
Pacific the less Australia —a remote outpost of the
European race—lias to fear.” —Labor manifesto.
Let them all come! O'er coral isle and reef
Let all their flags to all the breezes blow;
Our own democracy can know no grief
While warships in their thousands come and go.
Their grinning guns along the cowering tide
Will merely be our safety and our pride.
We do not care a rap for anything
The aftermath of indecisive hate
To these far shores of plenty yet may bring.
Mildly we sit at home and calmly wait,
What time the happy pumpkin blossoms blow
And Manly ferryboats move to'and fro.
The greed that fli es them shall not touch us here;
No fear have we of war or battle shock.
Their ships shall pass the land of bread and beer
To grasp the empire of a lonely rock ;
Or else a fever swamp in leprous isles
’Tvvixt seaward sharks and landward crocodiles.
Let them all come! This little tumult o’er
That spreads its death along the Flanders plain
And sprinkles France and Italy with gore,
Each foreign warship we shall count a Stai n.
For this the war has taught us week by week:
The strong-armed never strike the rich and meek.
Their preference is still for husks and chaff;
They gather up what no one else requires.
Ho! Hear their twelve-inch guns begin to laugh,
Finding the ashes of their best desires.
But for a continent full-charged with mutton
The hungry nations do not care a button!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
THE WARNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is danger lurking near us.
Kindly hold your breath and wait.
War with red-hot bolts may sear us;
Foes may knock upon the gate.
We have taken every measure
To defend our menaced shore;
And you needs must wait our pleasure
If you want to hear some more.
Sit down calmly and consider
How Australia really stands,
And of how we best can rid her
Of this danger on her hands;
Watch for lightnings of destruction,
Wings of war above the town,
Or a little trade obstruction
In a building falling down.
Watch and wait. There may be dangers
At your own suburban door.
Footsteps of the raiding strangers
May pollute your office floor.
You may be quite dead by morning
Or before the fall of dew;
But, advice from all men scorning,
We shall see the matter through.
We’re a democratic nation,
Therefore you have naught to say.
Keep your meek and humble station;
If you want to, kneel and pray.
We shall give our whole attention
To the matter now in hand ;
That is why we merely mention
Dangers rife by sea and land.
Dangers ! Watch the way we meet them !
We have handled things before ;
And we're sure that we can beat them
Once the guns begin to roar.
We shall do as well as ever;
You can judge what that may mean,
For our plans are just as clever
As tlie ones already seen.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Australian Novels of Adventure
1/- each— The “Bookstall” Series— l/1 posted
aWHBMHESra
SERVICE
ymnetnatm
command
of Australian Books.
“OX HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
by ROY BRIDGES.
An intensely interesting and dramatic
romance of Van Diemen’s Land.
“FOR TURON GOLD,”
by DON DELANEY.
A brilliant Australian goldfields’ tale,
ci’owded with exciting incidents.
ssarsKgg
nmiis
rnt'-
ias*
By LOUIS BECKE.
The Famous Australian Writer of South Sea Stories.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,”
“THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS BLAKE.”
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
by JOHN X. CAMERON.
A story of the good old days in the Aus-
tralian bush.
“BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S
COMMAND,”
by ROY BRIDGES.
“STELLA SOTHERN,”
by I. A. ROSENBLUM.
A novel of exciting adventures in the
Northern Territory.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,”
by DON DELANEY.
“THE KNIGHT OP THE MOTOR LAUNCH.”
by ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
SIX SPLENDID BUSHRANGING BOOKS—I /
“SHORT-LIVED BUSHRANGERS,”
—by CHARLES WHITE.
« JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER,”
—by CHARLES WHITE.
“DAN KELLY, OUTLAW,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
“‘THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN RANGE,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE DEVIL’S NIGHTCAP,,”
—by LANCELOT BOOTH.
each.
'4
“TOOLS OF SATAN,”
by LANCELOT BOOTH.
One of those thrilling, absorbing novels
that holds the reader’s attention from the
first page to the last.
“SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,”
by A. J. BARRY.
A series of sea stories of great dramatic
strength by one of the most popular of
sea-adventure writers.
Al! Bookstalls and Booksellers, or direct
from the Publishers.
Write for Complete Catalogue.
South Sea
Shipmates
m
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney
imiiimiiriimimirmlinrMMrmNivufUlinnilfiifriunimHilHimniHimiiiiurnrniruiimiiiiiiuuiiiiiniuitnuiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Westinghouse
Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
Simplicity of detail.
Evei\ turning moment.
Accessibility of all moving parts.
Minimum fuel consumption.
Low maintenance costs.
Absolute reliability.
Westinghouse Oil Engines are particularly suited for irrigation and
farm work, requiring no attention after starting up. Being fitted
with oil feed pump (of special construction) and fuel atomiser,
ensures complete combustion of fuel and high economy.
Westinghouse Gas Engines give highly satisfactory and economical
service in driving generators for small electric lighting installations,
industrial and agricultural machinery, etc., as proved by the large
number now operating in all parts of the world.
Send your enquiries to nearest office.
g
mmmm
Manchester
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:—
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS
Standard Wayffood Hercules Ltd.,
77. King Street. Sydney.
Elder, Shento» & Co., Ltd.,
William Street. Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co.. Ltd.,
27 —31, Currie Street. Adelaide,
Elder, Smith &*Co.. Ltd-.
84 —88, William Street. Melbourne,
Works—Trafford Par.k. Manchester, England.
THE SECRET of the DIFFERENCE
between DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS and other Remedies.
THERE seems to be a weakness in Human Nature to try everything new that comes along,
but in every case those making these trials find something lacking in the definite results. Still,
H uman Nature wants to try the new thing. 1 his is so well known that certain clever people
are continually bringing new remedies, or rather old ones, which have been tried and failed, with
new names, to catch these inquisitive folk. Most of these things have little or no merit, and are
tried once or twice and then discarded. When the public continues to take a remedy like
Dr. M orse’s Indian Root Pills year in and year out, there is a good reason why. They try the
other things but soon find something wanting, and they come back to the reliable remedy that
they can depend on. There is no use saying, “Don’t waste your money experimenting,” because
it will be waste of time. Try these things by all means. Try internal lubricants and fill your
system with mineral oil to do the work of the Bile, Nature’s own lubricant. Try every new
brand of salts on the market, every new tablet that has claims made for it that any kind of food
can be taken in any quantity if only this tablet is taken to digest it. Try them all, and soon it
will be found there is something lacking. There will be something that does not seem just right
in the after effect, and then come back to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills and note the change.
There is a general feeling of satisfaction and buoyancy not experienced from these other so-called
remedies. This is what has occurred for years. After trying many experiments with things
that are heavily boomed, it is found that the satisfactory result is absent. The reason is very
simple. In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills there is a proved combination of ingredi-
ents that form one compound that is highly efficient for the Liver and Allied Organs, not merely
flushing the system, as these other remedies do, without getting at the cause, but aiding in the
digestion of the food, and, above all, acting definitely on the Liver. This is the secret of the
difference and the reason why many of these new fads are tried a few times and found so ineffec-
tive that they are quickly abandoned, and Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills again resorted to and
found to accomplish everything that is claimed for them.


Apparently the rapid attrition caused by
the _ present fighting must continue until
myriads of American aeroplanes appear in
the Hun sky, suggesteth that wise spirit
King George IV top-notch Scotch.—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Weat Australian Afeents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS & WHITTYMELBOLIRNE & SYDNEY
PROPERTY BUYERS
Things Worth While.
MURRUMBIDGEE-WAGGA DIRECTION.—6OOO acres
Freehold, 8 miles Railway, netted and sub-
netted 9 paddocks, no rabbits—7oo acres been
under cultivation. £4 10s. per acre. Splendid
fattening and grazing.
CENTRAL DIVISION.—9OOO acres Freehold, 16 miles
Railway, 6000 acres picked up and burnt off,
splendid lucerne flats, choice homestead and
outbuildings, carry 7000 sheep, but has run
20,000. £3 ss. per acre.
LIVERPOOL PLAINS.—SOOO acres, close Werris
Creek-Dubbo Line, Limestone formation, extra-
choice piece of country. Carry 2 sheep to
acre, all netted, well-improved station. £6
per acre.
LACHLAN RIVER.—IO,OOO acres all well improved,
river frontage, homestead and outbuildings,
practically no rabbits, rich river flats, abun-
dantly watered. £4 per acre.
COONAMBLE.—7OOO acres. Freehold. Plain coun-
try intersected with timbered creeks —rich
fattening black and red soil, plenty herbage,
grasses and saltbush, carry 1 sheep to acre—
only wants a house. 60/-, 15 p.c. deposit,
balance 6 to 10 years.
CONDOBOLIN.—IO,OOO acres Freehold and about
10,000 acres Leasehold. Splendid grazing and
agricultural land, all substantially netted and
sub-netted. Homesteads and outbuildings,
10,000 sheep. The lot £39,500 and terms
given.
Buyers should write us stating their requirements.
PITT e EASTWAY,
12 O’Connell St„
SYDNEY.
Bendigo Amalgamated Goldfields No Liability.
DRILL FOREMAN.
DRILL FOREMAN WANTED, experi-
enced in shot drilling preferred. Refer-
ences required. Permanent position for man
who can get good footage. Salarv Fire
Pounds per week. Apply by letter to
J. G. STANFIELD, Manager,
Bendigo.
m.
msr.
m
a
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
There were 37 starters in the Newcastle
Cup, a mile and three furlongs, run on Saturday.
This is only another way of saying that at least 25
could expect to have their chance settled in the first
hundred yards. The Club ought to alter the dis-
tance. As it stands now neither horses nor owners
get a fair deal. From all points of view it would
be better for everybody concerned, if the distance is
maintained, to have a draw at the scales and ballot
out everything over a score of runners. The subse-
quent proceedings might at least turn into something
that would be a test of the remaining horses. With
37 going over so short a journey the test is of nothing
unless it be the Law of Chance. On Saturday 30 of
the horses were helping to bury one another.
Silent Way, the winner, was brought over from
Maoriland last year with the ’chaser New York by
George Studholrne. When the owner died unex-
pectedly at Melbourne, Silent Way passed into the
ownership of blood-stock salesman Chisholm, of
Sydney, and had done nothing Since. A third in the
Winter Stakes at Randwick to Sobrina and First
Lesson was only a moderate performance. But the
stable had its eye on Newcastle, and the horse was
put through a preparation for the event. He went
well for a while, and was backed at long prices for a
fair wad, but latterly his track-work had been quite
ordinary, and neither Bracken nor trainer 11. J.
Robinson gave him much of a chance. In a recent
gallop Baltic Sea ran all over him. But he got
quickly off the mark on Saturday, and after a saloon
trip to tlie distance Bracken rode his ears off and
struck the mark' a head in front of the old-time-boom
Celano. Backers collected 20’s. But it was Bracken
who landed the bacon for them. lie rode a great
finish. Last year he was aboard Chantemerle, and
arrived third to Norbury.
If Celano had got there the books woidd have had
a tremendous haul. They did very well as it was,
but the other one would have given the volumes that
opened when the weights appeared almost a skinner.
Of all the runners Celano’s chance appeared about as
hopeless as any. He was given a few runs in Sydney
last year, and most punters wished he had died
before they heard of him. He is an imported horse
and a good-looker, owned by a Newcastle odds-mer-
chant. Camp Out, who scrambled home third, is
raced by Barney Allen, his breeder. Most of the
Randwick heads reckoned Bruyere to be a good thing,
with Mehi King" next best. The mare was bunkered
from the start. The King got himself chopped out
in the second furlong. Yet in a race in which it
was long odds against anything getting a run,
punters were backing these at 4’s and s’s. People
who do that sort of thing should be locked up.
* * » *
A young lady who has not been hurried
too much had a win at Newcastle last week. This
is Cragrose, a sister to First Principle, Assouan and
Petalster, winner of the Nursery. The filly is trained
at Randwick. She was tried a couple of times at
Flemington in March, and once got third money. But
there was no mistake about the matter on Saturday,
odds-on having to be given at the deaths The five
furlongs were run in “2-1.” Cragrose cost 750
guineas. She may prove to have been worth it.
* -X- * *
When the Sports’ Union saw that Barden
was going to ride Garibaldi in -the Maiden at Moore-
field (Sydney) on Saturday the members rushed into
Israel and took as much as there was to get. Appren-
tice riders were on most of the others, and it hap-
pened that Garibaldi looked something like a picture.
It was an easy win. The Italian patriot’s namesake
ought to be heard from some more. He is full-
brother to Prince Bardolpb. At Randwick (City
Tattf’s meeting) last month he ran unbacked in a
huge field of novices and got well flattened out.
* * * *
An imported gelding named Early Morn
gave a field of second-raters no hope in the Moore-
field Handicap on Saturday. It wasn’t a deed to
sing a song about, but was done so easily as to
suggest that Early Morn may arise and awake to
bigger deeds. Before coming to these parts he had
made a fair reputation in Westralia, where all the
champions are.
» * * *
Trainers of jumping horses get little
chance to practise deep deception on the handicapper
prior to the midwinter meetings in Melbourne.
Weights for the G.N. Hurdles are published only 31
weeks before the event, and anyone who tried to
keep a new hurdler dark by not running him in
public or jumping him on the track until the
Nationals were near at hand would probably regret
his tactics when the time came for the gee to fly
over all the timber that bars the way in a National
journey. There’s a lot of talk about “natural
jumpers, but the novice that jumps easily is still
wanting in /the muscular development necessary for
“a real good thing” in, a three-mile race. And as
to the policy of running byes with a nag that is
nearly fit —well, what are the stipes for ? Even if
the stipes' don’t put the stiffened animal out of the
question shortly .before the weights appear, the handi-
capper has eyes and ears to aid his estimate of the
newchum’s form. Great Surprise, by Cunning—
Quietude, hasn’t much chance to bring off a coup in
the G. N. Hurdle race,
• * * * •*
S.A. Jockey Club is making a trifling
change in its St. Leger conditions. The queer dis-
tance, 132 yards over 1} miles, was borrowed from
English precedent. The other States do not bother
about the' odd yards, so this year and hereafter S.
Aus. is going to drop them too.
There is a great reverence for kings on
the turf, anyway. The first day of the recent Adel-
aide meeting, for example,- was a re-union of royalties,
so to speak. In the first race Happy King got a
place. 'ihe second event was won by Encounter
King; Common King was nowhere. There were,
strange to say, no monarchs listed in the third item
on the programme, but the fourth made amends. This
was won by a daughter of Comedy King, while
Momba King was the runner-up and King Bardolph
was third, King of the Sea being also a starter. In
the fifth race we had Kingbier, who was third past
the post. An also-ran in the last race was William
the Silent. This title is understood to stand for
King Billy Hughes.
* ' * * *
Adelaide has practically put a stop to all
games, except bowls, during the war'; but the racing
—the little it has —flourishes exceedingly. There are
no ponies and no unregistered meetings in S. Aus.,
and the whole Adelaide district does not average
one race-meeting a fortnight. But the public appe-
tite tor what there is seems to be increasing. The
Adelaide Racing Club’s entries for the minor events
in the Birthday Cup meeting near at hand beat
the previous record by nearly 100. There are over
550 (including 20 for the one weight-for-age race).
For the Three chief events, Birthday Cup, Alderman
Cup and City Handicap, there are about 200 more.
John Hill, for years perhaps the foremost
trainer in S. Aus., announces his retirement, on
account of ill-health. His memory goes back to
Adam Lindsay Gordon and the time when the Adel-
aide Cup was run at Thebarton. He trained Auraria
when she won Cup, Oaks and C. B. Fisher (dead-heat)
in Melbourne. Newstead, The Assyrian, First Water,
Cowra and Totalisator were other good horses he
turned out. He has won the S.A.J.O. Derby live
times and the Adelaide Cup eight.
***•*•
Pentland Allen, killed in France, was a
crack amateur rider, son of the Edithburgh (S.A.)
owner, F. W. Allen. He trained a Grand National
Steeple winner once. Horses were his hobby, and if
there had been more scope for cavalry in this war he
would ha,ve been in a higher rank than lance-corporal
at the end.
» * # *
Eulahess, a winner among the ponies at
Ascot (Sydney) on Saturday, is bred on good stout
lines. She is by Bruce—Mulpera. Bruce is well-
remembered on the pony-courses, where he carried
all sorts of weights to victory. Mulpera was one of
the best of her day in the 14.2 class.
* * * *
The Commercial Travellers’ Assoc, of Vic.
has undertaken the job of rattling Aleconner, at a
shilling a time, on behalf of the Red Cross; and
with every traveller carrying books of tickets the
output should run into several tens of thousands.
The brilliant little gee, who ranks as an Epsom
Handicap and Williamstown Cup winner, is still
sound in wind and limb, and should be fully worth
the £5OO he is insured for.
* * * *
The Derby and Oaks meeting of the
National Coursing Association (N.S.W.), held last
week at Rooty Hill, was the best of the kind since
war began. The ground was very hard, and the
weather was rather hot for some of the dogs, and
these cracked up before the finals. But the trials
were all good. The Derby puppies, though not up to
the best standard, were an even lot. None showed
great, pace, and they were all a bit inclined to be
cunning. The bitch puppies in the Oaks were a very
good bunch—fast and keener workers than the dogs.
Wagering on both Stakes was brisk, and in both
Stakes the favorite went down on the second day.
For the Derby Glenwood was favorite. He went
moderately on his first run and won his second course
in good style, but was badly beaten in the third.
The Oaks favorite, Black Silk, won her first two
courses brilliantly, but was beaten in the second ties
by Hope Australia. The two dogs that beat the,
favorites ultimately came through winners of the two
blue-riband events. The Derby was won by Rowdy
Micky, a black dog whelped in October, 1916. The
Oaks went to Hope Australia, a black bitch puppy
whelped in September, 1916. The winner was un-
doubtedly the best lady in the stake. She ran her
last three courses in slashing style with a badly-
broken toe.
* * * #
Although only three coursing meetings
have been held in the Sydney metropolitan area this
year the imported dog White Hope has put up a
wonderful record as a sire of winners. At Liverpool
during the opening meeting Ducky Darling, Little
Yera and Hope Australia, all by White Hope, were
among the last four dogs left in the stake. Little
Vera (winner) and Ducky Darling (runner-up) were
the last pair left in. Bridal March, another White
Hope, won the Merrylanda Stakes at the same meet-
ing, and Hidden Hope, by White Hope, was runner-
up in the April Stakes. At the Derby and Oaks
meeting three White Hope puppies were among the
last four left in the Stakes, and White Wonder was
runner-up. In the Oaks two White Hope bitches,
Hope Australia and Hope’s Bride, were in the last
four, and they filled the two places in the final. The
Penrith Stakes at the same meeting went to Stepper’s
Bride, another White Hope puppy. Achieved, who
divided the Woodstock Gup with Sail On, also claims
White Hope as his sire. The hare with a White
Hope puppy astern has a busy day.
James W. Thompson, whose enthusiasm
breaks loose when smashing back-stroke swimming
records, put world’s figures on the book at Brisbane
the other day by swirling through 440yds. in 6min.
34sec. This knocks 22sec. off his own figures put up
in the first quarter of the recent mile-record spin
(29min. 4 l-ssee.) at Brisbane.
Fanny Durack, who, in an exhibition
swim at the Sydney Grammar carnival on March 18,
beat the world’s record 500 yards swim for women
by something like 20sec., is the first of the sex to
receive a prize from the school. The boys wildly
cheered their new mate when she received a certifi-
cate the other day setting forth the details of the
aforesaid whirl through the wet.
* * * *
L. A. Cody, who packs up his kit to go
coaching in India, is a much-travelled cricketer.
Years ago he played for Paddington in Sydney grade
cricket, and in 1913-4 had a hand in winning the
Sheffield Shield for N. S. Walesl Next year he
crossed the border, and was in the Victoria XI
which recovered the implement, and still keeps it,
owing to the war. This season Cod}' averaged 38.3
with Fitzroy (runners-up) in the Vic. pennant.
* * * *
“Pencil”: C. G. Wilson, of Wellington
(M.L.), who this season piled up 762 runs —the
local record aggregate for first-grade cricket —is
another of the old ’uns. Thirty years ago “Gillie”
lifted a bat in Victorian pennant games on behalf of
St. Hilda.
* * *
In Brisbane cricket this season the batting
averages of the Goodna team are strangely varie-
gated. In 13 innings Farquhar averaged 140.8 and
Burns 115.8. Both men were helped by seven not
outs, but they always went in among the first three.
The most brilliant bat of the team, Haddock, was
content with 74".7, but he was only twice not out.
The story ends here, as the rest of the averages
begin at 19.
* * * »
The Hun closed the hook of a fine athlete
when Lieut. Stuart Frank Spratt went out to
wounds in France on April 18, aged 23. He was
born at Burwood (Sydney) and educated at Fort-
street, and later on Sydney Y.M.C.A. reckoned him
its best all-round athlete. He landed at Gallipoli,
and was wounded soon after, but got fit again in
time for Lone Pine. In April, 1916, he won the
Anzac Cup and the obstacle race at the big swim-
ming carnival arranged for Billjim after the Evacua-
tion. Later, when training for a commission at
Worcester College (Eng.), he captained the football
15 and its cricket 11, and scored six wins and
a second out of seven events at the local regatta.
Afterwards he assisted the A.I.F. Headquarters Staff
football team to dish an English 15 by five points
to nil —and did all the scoring himself. Out of 197
points scored by Worcester College during the season
Spratt contributed 89. His own total was 101 points
for 13 matches.
S. ,T. Young, who won East Sydney all-
round championship for 1918, is a versatile athlete.
He tackled all kinds of events, and on the final day
took the 220 yards and the 121 b. shot putt and
arrived third in the three miles. Altogether Young
scored 32 points. T. R. Cole was next with 20J, the
others so far astern that a telescope was needed to
find them.
* * * *
“Rangan”: At a patriotic entertainment
up our way one of the attractions was a heavyweight
contest between a hefty Greek and the local black-
smith. The pubkeeper was referee, and he had a
quiet £5 on the Greek. The fight soon developed
into the question of who should land the first wallop.
The luck was with the blacksmith, and in the middle
of the second round Greece thought he had stopped
the anvil. The count went something like this:
‘‘One, two —get up, Mike— three —none of your kid-
ding, get up ! — four —-get up, will you now !—five—
don’t disgrace yourself, Michael—.six—get up or I’ll—
seven—for ’lvven’s sake, get up, Mike ! — eight —
there’s a quid if you’ll get up!— nine —are you
going to get up?” Only a gurgle came from Mik-
opoulos. “Well, out, and be damned to you 1” roared
the referee.
* * * #
There is nothing German except the name
about Alfred Von Doussa, who has just had a 70th
birthday at Mount Barker (S.A.). He was born in
Adelaide, and has been a hard-working citizen as
clerk of a District Council for 30 years and secre-
tary of the local Agricultural Society. He has been
a member of S.A. Leg. Council since 1901 ; but
probably he is most widely known as secretary and
chief promoter of the Easter Monday race-meeting
at Oak bank, which always attracts a crowd of inter-
state visitors. That post he has held since 1876.
* * * *
Jean Pierard, the Belgian wrestler, will
not be the winner of the big grappling tournament
now being run in New York, partly because he is
50 and weighs SJcwt. But it looks as' if Jean has
got away with the Matrimonial Stakes. He has been
married 23 times. The third effort lasted 13 years.
Then he discovered that there was a triangle on the
premises. Jean threw the interloper over 37 sky-
scrapers and started drinking and marrying heavily.
When last heard from he reckoned he had settled
down.
Two up-country S. Aus. farmers now
claim the record for confiding in an uncle from
Fiji. They met in Adelaide the usual friendly
stranger, who introduced them to a second, who
had a friend with a real certainty for the races.
The story runs exactly the usual course most of
the way. The special feature is that the two from
the country actually went home per motor, an'd in
cold blood obtained all they had, £770, to hand to
the sharpers.
“Morwang”; Once or twice lately when
handling freshwater catfish I have been spiked. The
pain is awful. Any fisherman know a speedy cure
for it ?
In the Manning River (N.S.W.) last week
an outsize in eels was hooked. It was 4ft. 2in. long,
14in. round the waist and weighed 181 b. when skinned
and cleaned.
“Suwarrow”: In fishing for Murray cod I
have always got more and better fish when the river
was slowly rising. With the water in that state the
fish feed close to the bank, but when the river is
falling they are usually caught well out in the
stream. For bait I give preference to small live
bream. The best cod I’ve lifted out was a sprat of
just on 501 b.; but I’ve seen one of 941 b.
* * * *
“Fifth Wheel”: The steam-driven car has
arrived in the U.S.A. It doesn’t look a bit like a
loco. —is just as neat and racy, in fact, as the car
that shoots itself along with, petrol. It employs
kerosene to boil the water, and as the steam is used
over and over again, the water tank only needs re-
filling every 2500 miles. Running costs are said to
be lower than those of the petrol car, and it can
creep like a tortoise or fly like a high-speed angel.
As for smell, it’s the best. None.
* * * *
“Paddy Star”: I went to a liuckjumping
contest at Queanbeyan, alongside Canberra, a few
days ago. Riders were very good and good, with one
exception—the winner of a second prize. This rider
was not shifted in the saddle, but his horse went as
the wind goes, “where it listeth.” Why? Because the
rider hung frantically to a “monkey strap.” I have
seen many buckjumping contests in my day. But
never before have I seen a competitor allowed to use
a “monkey strap,” much less win a prize by so
doing. The judges were elderly bushmen of the
Tumut and Monaro Plains who in their young days
would have laughed to scorn the professing rider
who sought adventitious aid. When I was a young-
ster horsebreaking on the Upper Murray we had
many spills from good performers, but it was
always a fair go. I can understand a horse-breaker
using a “monkey strap” to avoid strain, but a com-
petitor in a horsemanship contest —never!
“303’’: G. L. Hobson offers £lO to the
Red Cross (B. 25/4/’18) if “Pick” will produce 20
expert riflemen who aim “off” for elevation and
windage. I will double G. L. Hobson's stake and
will ask “Pick” to find only five William Tells.
He can’t do it. Hobson is a Boer War veteran who
got much musketry instruction in a hard school, for
the Boers were and still are the best all-round rifle-
shots in the world. Incidentally he lost a finger in
that kindergarten. He is a champion rifle-shot in
his district, and at game in the field is a "quick
hand with the tube without the sling. Therefore
he is not talking through his hat. But all this
desultory writing about the rifle doesn’t take us very
far. The fact is that everything is in -the melting-
pot. Old teaching methods are npw silly. For
instance, the landscape targets used at Randwick
school of musketry are too funny for words. Ask
any soldier from any front if he ever saw anything
like them in Flanders, France, Palestine or any-
where else. After the war, a “conference” —the
word makes me shiver —should be convened to decide
upon the best methods to obtain intense training in
musketry and machine-gunnery. At that conference
should appear officers (marksmen only) who have had
war-experience, experts from the rifle-clubs, men like
“Centurion,” a landscape artist in water-colors
or oils (two artists would be better), and a kanga-
roo shooter. Between each yearly sitting two
men—one a staff-officer (a musketry crack), and the
other a rifle-club expert—should go round the world
getting information. Only by some such course
can we keep up to date. “Pick’s” claim would have
been good 40 years ago, but not now. The round-
the-world delegates would do more good than
Hughes and Cook.
* * * *
“Pick”: “G.L.H.” (B. 25/4/TS) chal-
lenges me to name 20 Sydney riflemen who shoot
without aids or pass a tenner to the Red Cross funds.
Righto. In my remarks (B. 4/4/’IS) I didn’t con-
fine myself to Sydney ; there are many rifleshots out-
side the city, but I’ll give that bit in. The Wunder-
lich Club; Paterson, Laing and Bruce; Anthony
Hordern’s—these and every other club shooting in
the warehousemen’s quarterly competitions at Rand-
wick discard slings and wind-gauges, and therefore
necessarily get their windage, etc., by aiming off the
bull. Any of these clubs can muster more than 20
members on the range. Now let “GX.11.” forward
£lO to the Red Cross to prove himself a sport and
not a bluffer.
* * * *
“Alphonse”: An old-time driving record
was made by the late George Watson, who, while
with Robertson and Wagner, the coaching partners
of early Victorian days, drove from Wangaratta to
Melbourne, 165 miles, in a little, over 13 hours. The
journey was made over bush roads with a buggy
carrying three passengers. Of course the famous old
whip had frequent changes of horses.
* * * *
Killed in France, Thomas Roger Macnee,
who before the war pulled a. strong oar with the row-
ing club of his native suburb, Balmain (N.S.W.),
and was al3o on the committee of the Ma State’s
Rowing Association. In his spare time in those
days he was first a Customs official and later had
a job under the Inter-State Commission. Macnee had
climbed from private to captain in the A.I.F. in 2}
years, and was adjutant of Iris battalion when cox-
swain Death called “Easy all!”
* * * *
“Gil.”: Out on leave from -the big local
military hospital, I dropped in at a quiet little
saloon at Randwick the other day and looked for
someone to have a couple of hundreds up with. A
dapper old gentleman who was doing a little lone-
handed practice at a table said he would oblige.
After I gave a miss in baulk he played a fine
four-cushion cannon and went on with the break to
43. He won. During the game we discussed horse.
“Yes, Biplane is good,” he remarked ; “but I think
a horse I trained that won the Melbourne Cup in
1904 and got beaten by a head for the same race the
following year was his equal.” “What was his
name?” I inquired. “Lord Cardigan,” he answered.
I had been talking to John Mayo. He is 82 now, but
as active as a two-year-old. Until a year ago he
never had to wear glasses. By the way, he also
trained Lord Nolan, another Cup winner. His son
John is owner and trainer of the Fortune Hunter.


There is a WAY to Perfedt
Health!
The way is open to you. Will you travel it?
The only way to improve Nature is through NATURAL
methods.
Drugs and apparatus usually show no results and are often
injurious. Under my method 15 minutes each day in your
own room is sufficient. I have thousands of students in all
parts of Australia and New Zealand who are now enjoying
good health. Previously a great number of these people
were sufferers from indigestion, constipation and other dis-
orders which are the direct result of the internal muscles
being much below normal.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of t’ae stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them bac’s to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best of health ? Then why not
write to-day for full particulars of my
POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH AND
STRENGTH CULTURE?
This is proof of what I say:—
“Dear Sir, —I have practised the third set of exercises,
together with the other sets, and feel stronger than ever.
I have increased 91b. in weight.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Signed) H. F , Gemalla.”
Many hundreds of letters from pupils throughout Australia
and New Zealand are in the same strain.
I should like you to have my booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF CULTURE,” which tells about my
methods, fees, etc. Just write your name across this advt.
and send it to me, with three penny stamps for postage. A
REG. L.( snowy )BAKER
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
> of Australia,”
726 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
■
Hg
m
SH£ ll
K
a»
ifeiu.
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
C CUCI I *
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD."
Uncle Sam’s Choice
in war as in peace is
sdg
The Indian Factory
is now engaged on
the largest war
orders yet placed
for motor-cycles.
Catalogue with pleasure.
RHODES MOTOR
CYCLE CO. PTY. LTD.
JSf
Russell St.,
Melbourne.
f
'A-
Teeth You Love
to Look at.
Teeth that charm —teeth that are
pearly white, healthy, beautiful
teeth, as sound as sound can be.
With the daily use of
A.
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER-
good teeth, the greatest gift of all—
belong to you.
Calox actually prevents decay when
used regularly. Where decay germs
and bacteria exist Calox generates free
oxygen when coming in contact with
the mouth —this oxygen penetrates
into every recess and cavity between
the teeth and purifies where it goes,
\<mL®w
(T*me N4«x)
THE OXYGEN|
TOOTH POWDER,
destructive acids are
removed and hidden
teeth dangers no longer
remain.
Calox brightens the
teeth and freshens the
mouth.
Calox is procurable
from
All Chemists and
Leading Stores.
F. 9-5-18.
THE ELECTRIC ICEMAN.
REFRIGERATORS
FOR YOUR HOME.
Fit an “ISKO” Refrigerator
in your Ice Chest.
NO ICE REQUIRE!*.
MAKES ITS OWN ICE.
Automatically starts and stops
itself as the temperature rises
or falls.
Efficient, Economical, Safe,
Sanitary.
Low, even temperature, no mat-
ter how hot the weather out-
side may be.
Dry, cold, pure and wholesome
air circulates through the Ice
Chest.
Cheap refrigeration; adds very
little to your Electric-light bill.
Keeps Milk, Fish, Fruits or
Meats without spoiling.
Write for particulars to the Sole
Agents,
:'£r a 2z.
H
wm
m
m
Benson Brothers Ltd.
70-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY,
Mm
m
" ' >
mm
m* i
'S
.'•r
til*.*#*-**
c«
\
£
H.
Ife
51
■**«
■
«S
:-v.^
si
-->•
7-i
£-.?
sm
m
v:*
ai
..'.l'
S? 2?
mm
sa
Ms
'/-t;
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
Wasting Disorders
Price 216 bottle
This is the Coat
You should Buy Now 4
You need it. If you already own
a waterproof and a light raincoat
the position is the same. This
coat is absolutely essential to
complete your Winter Comfort.
It is. first of all. a WARM coat.
Tucked in behind its Double-
Breasted Front—with the Deep
Collar turned well up round your
ears, the Cuff Windguards But-
toned and your hands in the
Commodious Pockets—you can
hold cheap the worst weather our
winter can provide.
In looks it answers every re-
quirement—is impressive in style
—possesses a distinction of cut
rare in this type of garment, and
—it is as good us it looks? The
Navy Nap Cloth
in which it is made is of
Splendid Quality will
give years of wear without
losing its appearance or
protective value, and is
not unduly weighty.
75/-
(Freight Paid)
A
, F
sk.
r
is the Price. At this
figure the Coat is not
merely good value accord-
ing to present standards
• —it would be cheap at
any time.
Perfect Tailoring and a Complete Size-range
make everything right as to Fit and “Feel."
If you want to know what coat-comfort really
means just
POST YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd. . »
Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


See This Woolbale?
aw*®*
Send
Your
Wool
to
Winchcombe
Carson
It contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sheepownerg.
WINOHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Sydney AND Brisbane.
[3
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
Sew York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2id.
Constipation
' Bhwel and Stomach Disorders and resulting
quickly and permanently cured
by Simjl'd; Natural Home Treatment—No Medicine
J$- a Well-known
■business man
CURED
himself permanently after many years of suffering,
is told I'iii‘a 40 page Booklet, sent free to all who
send this advertisement, and sd. postage to
d. P. CALC. 32t Collins st . Melbourne
FOURNIERS
HYGENIQUE
MIXTURE.
(FOR LADIES)
Tested and Proved for Years.
WASTE NO TIME.
Immediately you notice any disorder of
the system take Fournier's Hygenique
Mixture. It quickly removes all suffering.
There is Noth/ng to EQUAL IT, nor
Anything so Widely Known.
It is justly described as the
FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD.
Be sure you get FOURNIER’S
HYGENIQUE MIXTURE.
Refuse all substitutes which are injurious
and harmful.
Sold by Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.,
and all Chemists and Stores.
ds
HORROCWSES- HORroCKTrT-HaKMjCKSiIVrtORftOCKSES-
HORROCKSES*
Lemqclct/U) &nc( CcUtcceA
gsd
WILL PAY you in tmE'END.
ESTABLISHED 1791
"HORROCKSES"'
ON SELVEDGE
3isi
ROSH RELALAH,
3rd Edition. Post, 2s.
SKINNER’S, 121 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
V//&
vm
mu
SAUCE
is a revelation in
sauce manu-
facture, if
you have
not already
tried it, you
have a treat
in store.
o/
all
Grocers.
SI
mmsm
,'j?mnrrrmn
e ) ?Pk»V'u/Vc
iIE-RCURy
PUTS
SPARKLE
YOU
IN
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the World Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a
dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
mm
‘M&MJk
$
V»
M
SofZ
WHITE
£
w
HO’S loudest
in praise of
“Laurel” Kero-
sene as an illuminant ?
Why, the good people
who use it, who prove
every evening its
enormous superiority
over flickering gas and harsh
electricity—who enjoy its soft,
yet brilliant gleam.
And the praise is as well
merited as it is unstinted, for
“Laurel” means lighting, heat-
ing and cooking satisfaction of
a very high order.
It burns without flicker,
smoke or smell, and is very
economical.
When next you go to your
grocer or storekeeper, don’t
say k^osene —ask Jor “ Laurel”
Don’t Be A ‘Wisher’
Some men keep on wishing they had an Onoto Self-filling
Pen so hard—that if the pen grew with the wish they
couldn’t see it all.
The Onoto does not leak. It FILLS ITSELFin a flash— without any
filler. A perfectly-balanced fountain pen—
QUIT WISHING—GET AN
Pen
Self-filling
Safety Fountain
Manufacturers : Thomas De La
Rue & Co., Ltd., Bunhill Row,
London, E.C. Managing Agents:
Norman- Baker & Longhurst,
Sydney.
Ask for CNOIO INK- Best for oil Pens
g
I
and upwards
Also ONOTO
Valveless lor those
j "who dn notwant a Sell-Fil ing
Pen,l2/6 of all Stationers,
Jewellers and Stores.
ZINC
Electrolyticallj. Bran( ],
Refined Zinc,
containing 99.95% Metallic Zinc
Spelter,
I3HAS,
Brand,
containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust, containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Zinc Concentrates, Various Grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above Australian Productions:
ZING PRODUCERS’ ASSOCIATION PTY. LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere: —
Written To Re-
Jan., Loss. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1906.. £1566 Nil '£1022 £11,086
Net Profit.
1907.. 5364 Nil 308 £5056 6,030
J' Plant apparently written
down . . . . 6371 12,401
Reserves.
| £12,500 capital written off .. .. 99
I Profit.
I 6731 6 p.c. =£3ooo 3731 3,830
1909.. 1797 5 „ „ 2500 3,127
1910.. 3532 5 „ „ 2500 1032 4,159
1911.. 5562 6 „ „ 3000 2562 6,721
1912.. 5594 6 „ „ 3000 2594 9,315
1913.. 7689 6 „„ 3000 4689 14,004
1914.. 9340 8 „ „ 4000 5340 19,344
1915.. 5510 7 ~ „ 3500 2010 21,354
1916.. 3804 7 „ „ 3500 304 21,658
1917.. 3022 54 „ „ 2750 272 21,930
1918.. 5614 7 ~ „ 3500 2114 24,044
This co, confines itself mainly to the back-
country—to the north of Victoria, the rivers
and the far-west of N. S. Wales. The
branches opened in the past year pretty well
indicate its pioneering habits; they are at
CargeUigo, Matakana and Roto, which you’ll
find, if your map is good enough, out at the
farthest points of the new railways that creep
from Sydney towards Broken Hill, with the
great east-and-west transcontinental beyond
it. Matakana, for instance, is the present
terminus out from Condobolin —of no im-
portance whatever except that the railhead
halts for a while and Mt. Hope loads its
copper matte there. Now this kind of trade
is precarious; and that is all that is the
matter with quite a lot of what Permewan,
Wright and Co. have been doing for years,
including the river portion. Occasionally
the co. makes a bunch; but there is very
little chance of working up anything per-
manently big. However, the dividend, though
it bobs about a good deal, averages pretty
well; and, as the next table shows, after
paying it there has been a fair accumulation
of assets in the past 10 years:—
1908. 3916. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities. . . , £34,854 £41,855 £44,092 £51,681
Assets—■
Plant and property 37,297 46,284 44,104 39,757
Book debts . . 40,986 45,355 48,527 60,066
Merchandise ; . 10,356 » 20,496 21,371 23,144
Miscellaneous . . 3,045 3,378 3,269 4,759
Thus while liabilities are £17,000 larger
than they were 10 years ago the co. has
nearly £20,000 more on its books and £13,000
more in stocks, besides, say, five thousand
extra in plant and cash, etc. Of course, it is
very difficult to say what the plant is worth.
Wear and tear is very severe; but that
seems to be provided for. Last year, for
instance, besides paying £l5OO for repairs,
the co. wrote off over £3OOO of profit against
depreciation.
* * * *
Provident Life Insurance Co., of
Dunedin (M.L.), which is also doing business
in Australia. The present co. took over the
Prevalent and Industrial Insurance Co. in
1004. The table begins from the time when
the accounts of the Ordinary and Industrial
branches were separated :—-
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Ex- Added to Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Assurance Fund. Fund.
1912. . £19,498
1913.. £9,886 £1867 £2365 £5,652 25,150
1914.. 12,127 3043 2533 6,551 31,701
1915.. 14,136 4230 2853 7,053 38,754
1916.. 16,455 4731 3014 8,710 47,464
1917.. 20,003 5187 3268 11,548 59,012
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
1912.. £43,981
Premiums on new shares added to Funds, £ 1656 45,637
1913. . £41,502 £10,453 £25,123 £673 50,890
1914.. 46,302 10,287 26,513 856 59,536
1915.. 48,625 8,774 24,573 1050 73,764
1916.. 52,605 13,115 25,943 1050 86,261
1917.. 61,439 12,793 30,088 1050 103,769
The co. seems to have turned the corner,
though it has a good way to go yet before it
reaches the most salubrious end of the
street. At the end of 1913, when the last
actuarial valuation was made, the co. had
its capital (£21.000) intact and a bit over
for bonuses. The latter were distributed
among the policy-holders, but the 10 p.c. of
the total which, in accordance with the con-
stitution, was to have been made available
for shareholders, was held back. They
have, however, had their regular 5 p.c. from
the profits of 'the Industrial branch. As
the very substantially improved business
since 1913 has been done at steadily reduced
cost, there is every reason to expect that
the investigation at the end of the current
year will disclose another surplus.
But expenses are still high, especially in
the Industrial section :
Expenses in Proportion to Income.
Ordinary. Industrial.
1913 .. 23.9 p.c. 60.5 p.c.
1916 .. 18.3 „ 49.3 „
1917 . . 16.3 „ 49.0 „
Considering that the Ordinary branch policies
don’t average more than about £l5O apiece,
the figures on that side are not at all bad;
but when half of the Industrial premium
go,es in chasing the policy and collecting the
fourpence a fortnight or whatever it is, leav-
ing rather less than half of the fourpence
for actual insurance, one can’t help feeling
that, though it is better than nothing, it
isn’t what it ought to be. Of the total
funds of £183,781 no less than £112,617 is
in municipal and Harbor Board debentures—
Maoriland local securities, no doubt, most of
them probably issued by Dunedin, where the
co. has a big hold on the available Industrial
business. For the rest, there is £22,911 out,
on mortgage ; and everything that has been
liquid of late has gone into M.L. and Com-
monwealth war loans. The whole lot brings
in a very satisfactory average of £4 12s. Bd.
p.c.
* * * *
Grains of gold are often found in the
sands of the Ninety-Mile Beach (Vic.), and
as traces of gold have also been discovered
along the coast about Waterhouse Island,
on the other side of Bass Straits, the
chances are that there is a submarine gold-
field somewhere out in the straits. But
there would be too much water in the stock
of any co, that tried to work it.


1
HF
IMII
is
PM
i-w/r,
fflll
'illllllir
m
■,n
[iilll
1
LLsA
■niiini
Ml
M ll -
-
i
*
r
m
111
5
| J 1
sss
; U
iSS
■ .
Hj
iM
ss an
Do you live in the Lome
.A STUENT PIANO?
THERE it stands, in lonely gloom close by the wall,
an expensive tombstone on the grave of vanished
joy. You personally never could play very much,
and lack of practice has still further stiffened your
fingers. The children are only in the five-finger exercise
stage and other interests have impaired your wife’s
never-to-be-much-talked-about technique.
And so your“silent” Piano stands
deteriorating through lack of
use. Why not alter it all ? Why
not take advantage of the liberal
allowance we make on “silent”
Pianos and enjoy all the pleasure
which a Beale Player - Piano
affords. It is an instrument which
supplies faultless technique with a
rich, resonant tone. Eight ex-
pression devices give absolute
tone control, enabling one to get
the fullest wealth of colour and
feeling out of every selection
played. A knowledge of music is
quite unnecessary. All that is
required is an intelligent appre-
ciation of rhythm, accent and
expression. Informal concerts are
held daily.
Call and let us demonstrate how easy it is for you to
play all your favourite music the ‘Beale” Player-way.
Head Office and Showrooms >
333 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
le^y
ecc
& C? L.TP /
Factory:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.,
ANNANDALE.
Branches at Bathurst, Orange, Lisinore, Newcastle, Gonlbnrn, Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples in all Melbourne
Suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Evans
Limited, Adelaide. QUEENSLAND: 90-93 Queen Street, Brisbane; Kent Street. Maryborough; blinders
Street, Townsville; Rockhampton; Sydney Street, Maekay; Cairns. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: J. A.
Thompson & Co., Ltd., 209 Murray Street, Perth.


I.
I
sdg
sd
of Best
Eton Collars
for Boys.
At school and college “men in
the making” are wearing Pelaco
make, and, as time goes on, when
they reach manhood
will still remain their favorite
—these collars are of standard
styles and give the best service
for grown-ups and growing-
ups. The Eton shape illustrated
comes in sizes 11 to 142-
lleights 14in., lfin., 2in.
Made in Australia.
Best Quality Linen-faced, !/■
rmrn
I
WEAR
SHIRTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO
gsd
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing 'Auriste of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Hears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
... i
M
-
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSED, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
SCZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
ITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its- unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
( Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ectab. 1891.
.
WRITE CATALOGUE.
The “Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The "Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make.
They both have pigskin seat, the “G.S. ’
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle.
£ 717/ - Complete.
£7/2/- without Stirrups.
£6/16/-
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDGE, 14/3; post, 1/-
Safi die Cloth, 6/0; post, 9d.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
Write for SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or,
If in Australia, Nearest
Railway Station. i i
Tk “WINTON”
One of the Finest Saddles for
Rough Riders. —One Horsebreaker
described it as the Best Saddle
ever he threw a leg over.
It has combined flap and skirt, giving
a most comfortable and narrow grip,
pads high up, sagged seat, leather points
to panel, specially strong tree, and is
fitted with bevelled stirrup leathers,
folded girth and solid nickel stirrups.
£lO/2/6 without Stirrups.
Nickel Stirrups, 10/6 and 12/6 extra.
Freight free for cash with order to any
port or railway station in N. S. Wales.
Walther 8 Stevenson
%
SADDLERS, Ltd.
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
SH
Va
A
8
V 5
ft
SK
ia
Horucks
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what makes him feel good,
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
easily assimilated, nourishing food,
therefoie insist on always having
Horlick’a Malted Milk for him.
Write for sample, sending 2d in
stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltd..
26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes. crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
THEY SCREW IN
to the outer case. Thej' therefore are
impervious to dust, to perspiration, to
damp. Pre-eminently suitable for the
heat of campaigning in the tropics or
the wet of Flanders.
WHAT OF THEIR GOING RELI-
ABILITY? Yes, they are absolutely
dependable. They are high-grade
J-plate lever movements, with 15
jewels, a hrequet hairspring and a
compensated balance. They have also
hi<"’’-o-rade luminous dials and hands,
which make the time visible on the
darkest night. They have been speci-
ally made for us for the use of our
brave men going to the Front. They
are fitted into the best quality pigskin
regulation wristlets, and cost 55/-.
Our stock of Soldiers’ Watches is
enormous, and ranges from those at
35/- up to £lO/10/- in gold. A
special discount is given when for
public presentation.
Absolutely Reliable, Fully Jewelled, Lever Movement,
with Luminous Figures and Hands, to Screw into
Solid Silver Case, complete in Regulation Wristlet,
55/-
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
> 23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures. Strictly Cash.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice ( except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Walter S.: But if the gold disappeared,
the value of our notes would shrivel; also our
foreign creditor won’t accept payment in paper and
we can’t very well kill him —he is too scattered
and numerous.... Melbo: That’s a mild case. Why,
the Resident Engineer of a Queensland railway divi-
sion, one of the best-known construction men in
Australia, having enlisted, was obliged to go away
as a sapper recently. The Bulletin has kicked
against the idiocy until it is nearly tired.... First
Odds: The question wasn’t whether Brookes was right
or wrong. The thing that was alone worth notice,
which it got, was that an, editor had stuck to his
reporter... .Paddy S.: Yes, thanks; somebody dug it
up some weeks ago and settled the arguilient....
SI.S.: “Victim” shows great improvement. The
workmanship is quite good enough. .. .Tickled:
Thanks; todt the interest is too local. .. .E. 0.:
“Weekly” doesn’t grip... .H.C.G.: Shocking verse. ...
Krokus: Too much melodrama for us. ... A..J.G.:
Machine-made yarn painfully strung out J.F.M.:
They’re too rugged. .. .M.8.P.: “Path to the Stars”
doesn’t reach them.... J.C.8.: Nothing at all in this
sample. Don’t know what you could do with longer
stuff except offer it to a publisher... .Dale: Too
slight. .. .Chev: It doesn’t appeal to u 5.... Eye of
Day: It is a feeble yarn that stumbles by the way.
... .R.D.: “Memory” has no thrill and there is the
ancient and ruinous “dawn”—“morn” rhyme....
S.E.: “Haunted Gully” started like a winner and
ended in a dull f10p... .G.E.L.: Sorrowful stuff....
R. : “April”—we could feel the bumps!....
M.J.: Good enough verse, but with no interest for
man or beast.... Lisle Lester: Too slight in thought.
.... G.D.: Commonplace thought in verse that hasn’t
quite grown up... .M.P.S.C.: No use... .T.H.W.:
Interesting to find St. Peter in charge of Fairyland.
....Junius Jester: Doesn’t g 0... .C.D.C.: Not enough
in them... .Comedy King: Verse has too much
wobble.. . .C.L.M.: “Cobber” verse very rough stuff.
G.V.N.: Nothing there P. 1.0.: No
Bunny: Interesting, but too rugged. Go 0n....
S. :It has an insane look; but why not send it to
“Sweet Daphne” herself ?... .R.(M.D.: “Great Wooden
House” is hardly a fair parallel. After all, Aus-
tralia has done more than, say, Canada or the U.S.A.
. ...D.8.C.: Very good verse; but it is too violent.
In fact, it foams in invective—and we don’t like
foam except on beer. .. .M. 8.: “The One Solution”
is very clumsy verse.... Sparks: The verse won’t
carry it... .E.J.L.: Held for further reading....
R.M.8.: That seems about the limit in feebleness...,.
R.S.K.: Even, uninspired stuff that doesn’t grip....
G.D.M.: No joy in those “Cats”.... Hannibal: Both
too lumpy.... Mag: Verse not up... .M.8.T.: True,
lady, true. But it isn’t poetry. It isn’t even rhyme.
... .Lela M.: An idea, but verse doesn’t carry it... .
M. 8.: Not much there; and every fourth line goes
insane... .R.W.C.: There’s novelty about the rhyme
“highlands” with “silence,” but not much interest
elsewhere... .J.H.: They don’t get hold of u 5....
W. 8.: We don’t reprint; and those verses are not
worth reprinting, anyhow... .S.H.: Don’t get there.
. ...G.P.: Your mistake. No yarn in it; only a
yawn. .. . A. 8.5.: N 0.... S.H.: Hard to guess what
it’s all about... .L.R.: The humor goes very thin....
A. 8.: How did you contrive to make “One Night
Stands” so amazingly dull . ?... .E.V.H.: Not quite.
.... J.M.: “McGinty” travels heavily. .. .F.D.: Weak
little flutter... .H.F.M.: What on earth does it
mean?... .O.B.: Gets right down to it: —
Every day we are told to be economic;
To see stacks of food alas! my poor stomach!
It begins to make one feel very comic.
Where there’s plenty for every one it dosen’t seem
Jonic.
Why not give us something more definite,
Seeing that we are in the land of wheat and meat ?
Is it we must live on just perquisite,
To leave off cultivating to take a back seat?
Are we to go right back on our tracks?
If so we will want to know more of the facts;
To come down to the lowest, like our blacks,
Before we come down to think of the last act.
....S.M.Ci: N 0... . AJI.P.: Yes; verse published in
this column is paid for E.8.L.: Child verse pretty.
You ought to be able to find a market for
it.. . .1.0. G.: The “Garden” is pleasing; but that
idea has been worked hard, and a lot of the lines are
out of scansion... .E.W.8.: Nothing of joy in the
“Jaunt.”.... A. J. 8.: Why make Billjim so boorish ?
Any number of him feed more 'decently than dukes.
. ...W.E.8.: It. goes heavily....A Wife: That’s a
foolish way of looking at it. Nursing is a job, not
a sentiment, although sentiment may bring you to
the job... .Wild Heather: Young woman, you can’t
rhyme “quiet” with “night,” nor even “bier” with
“hair.”... .Jim C.: If what you say is right, why do
you leave it to him to apply for relief? The Defence
Department has many faults, but it isn’t brutal....
E. :It isn’t feasible.... Scratch Cockies: Yes, it’s
well known. Several remedies were offered in The
Bulletin by contributors during the recent mice
plague, but can’t say what their value was-. ...Miss
F. H.: (1) We prefer to pay for everything we accept;
(2) Yes, we tty to, if stamps are enclosed; (3) It
depends largely on the subject matter.... Sim: No;
that’s not the reason, but glad to read pars... .Cool-
reagh (France): Too steep... .Peter Smith: Please
send name and address.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
F.M.: Very rough and early... .Austra L.: Prac-
tically nothing right with them... .Paddy M.: The
politician looks like a potato. Was that your inten-
tion?... .C.V.H.: At first we mistook the pots of
beer for tins of disinfectant N.E.W.: They’re too
flat. .. .A.V.8.: No fun in it... .C.8.J.: They’ll have
to be brighter—and newer.... George H.: Sad draw-
ing.. ..P.C.: Can’t use it 5.0’8.: N0....R.W.:
Unsuitable.... J.A.W.: Very roughly done.
SONNET—COPY.
Verse have I known both lumbersome and hoppy,
Some that must leap and some that scarce can run,
Some that is made to love and some to shun,
And some that must be still described as sloppy.
There is a passion in the crimson poppy,
A glory in the rise and set of sun;
And out of these may music still be spun—
But, of your grace, sweet bards, write decent copy!
I hate the Kaiser with his evil works
And all his loud effrontery of lies.
I do not love the Austrians and their guile;
And in a large contempt I hold the Turks.
But more I hate the man who spoils my eyes
With tangled copy in handwriting vile.
N.S.W.
THE TASTER.


I
w
J©HKL BRIGGS 2ini C®T
Whin * PHIIUUU IjKOUtRSI
mzmzmm
• r
/fV'
r- rr »ic ;:rt
i ■
mss
d m r
p Pi -H-
-HIM
BP s png
sllS
TTia
FnrctmrP^-
1
.•.
»=
/*»
illOffl
HHH
i in
i
vT
- *
r
7 /:
. «S
■v:
m
mi!
J,
sr
;#sfs>
Main outlet by Ferry Steamers to all Northern Suburbs of Sydney,
Circular Quaj
-* Sydueip"
Our Relation with the Motorist
A great business like this isn’t so
difficult to carry on, when you re-
duce practise to first principles, as
we do.
We look upon the thousands of
Australian and New Zealand motor-
ists with whom we do business as
one gigantic buyer, and the many
thousands of tyres we market yearly
as one immense transaction.
We feel that if we disappoint this buyer in any
degree, either as to quality of product or in our
trade relations with him, our business will
suffer.
So we are careful in our own interests not to
disappoint him, to make everything we build
good enough, and worthy enough to invite and
deserve his further custom and good-will.
The Goodyear Tyre you buy is built to uphold
the good name of all Goodyear Tyres. The
nature of our trade relation with you is of the
same complexion as our relation with the
motoring public at large.
For it is of men like yourself that the motor-
ing public at large is composed—and it is to
the individuals in that public that every Good-
year Tyre must give account of its worth,
every Goodyear transaction bear evidence of
its sincerity,
Naturally we make each tyre and transaction
of a character to bear this responsibility.
Goodyear Tyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes and “Tyre Saver" Accessories are easy to get from Goodyear Service Station Dealers everywhere.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY. BRANCHES AND AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxc. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
U'el.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY v
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
‘ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) !
MACKAY
BOWEN
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
OOOMA (400 Q Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May 11.
Leaves Sydney, May 14.
•HOMBAE'A (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May 25.
Leaves Sydney, May 28.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. anti \V. A. ports)
•Passengers only.
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, May 21.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP,
K.C.M.0.-; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C. ; THOS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Cilice: llrisbane.
Sydney Cilice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HUM) OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARAVOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; lion. F.
JAG© SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
. Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the AVorld.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, ana other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
at Interest tor
fixed periods, and
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping &c.
Can&d ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
IHE “ALL-RED” ROL’XE XO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIHC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACII) SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
g
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups.
Send for- further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors :
£3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,860
£10,684,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosberv, C.M.G
Iv.C.M.G.,
, M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert h. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. .London Office —Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CommomvealtbiMkJßanfe ° ( 3MmKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
fSr pe a n ,i General Banking Business P ;JU&,
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at Interest at 9°/
Post pffices in Australia, Papua, Solomon per annum /o
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific, up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
. JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
£6,000,000
Established 1834.
V
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. P. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs, 1
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPGO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORJALTA, May 11.
S.S. PAIIINGA, May 18.
S.S. RUPARA, May 25.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
t isitors are not allowed on Company’s AVharves
nor on board Company’s Steamers.
G. S. YI 1171, * CO., I,T I)..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between Melbourne and Launceston three
sailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER UMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEAN 1C STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIIIT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD. HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle: ELDER. SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamer’s trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are ifYied in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and yULENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilluinbali,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of tire Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Inter-State Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITER,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in*
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hoi-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tbs
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Q
The simplest papers
for amateur photographers
A great many amateurs like to print by sunlight rather than
by artificial light, as they can then watch the progress of the
printing. For such we strongly recommend the two papers
described here, which will be found eminently satisfactory.
“EUTONA”
Self-toning Paper.
lias a delightful matt surface.
“SOLIO”
Self-toning Paper.
has a glossy surface rendering sharply all detail that
the negative.
With either paper uniform results may be obtained either in cold or warm tones.
Get a packet of each and try these fine papers for yourself. Also available in
postcards.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK, (a ustralasia) LTD.,
incorporating: Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne;
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane. The Valley. 37 Bundle St., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. Denham St., Rockhampton. 3-16 Argent
St., Broken Hill. Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth. “The Kodak Corner,” corner
Eainbton Quay and Willis St;, Wellington, N.Z.; 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; 76*Stu»rt St.,
Dunedin, N.Z.; and Christchurch, N.Z.
His Master's Voice
r
NV
r\
g
1
y
3*
5^
I / V
u
L 1 i
/
n
—-the instruments and records
that educate and entertain !
They EDUCATE, because they bring to
you masterpieces of song and music
rendered as only masters can render
them. The great celebrities record EX*
CLUSIVELY with “His Master’s Voice.”
They ENTERTAIN, because their re-
production and tone are perfect. They
bring to you THE LIVING VOICE, the
pulsating cadences of orchestral music,
the soulful melody of the violin—just as
you would hear these fascinating musical
wonders in the great theatres and opera-
houses of the world’s foremost cities.
Be sure you get “His Master’s Voice.”
The AUSTRAL Model
is a portable hornless instrument in
polished quartered oak with nickel-
plated fittings. It has full rich tone
and splendid volume of sound.
Fitted with the famous“Exhibition”Sound Box
and Gooseneck Taper Tone Arm, 11 Guineas.
sdg
The family Chorus:
His Masters Voice
is superb
Instrument catalogue, record list and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
“Gramophone."
Regd. Trade Mark,
The “Austral."
“His Master’s Voice."
Regd. Trade Mark.


A WAR-TIME BEAUTY SECRET.
lIOW TO LOOK BEAUTIFUL ON LESS
MONEY.
In these days of economy we welcome any-
thing which enables us to cut down expenses,
and many lady readers will gladly accept my
advice and try this excellent and inexpensive
recipe for the complexion. Any chemist will
mix it up for you, and it is made up from
- oz - rose-water, 1 dram tincture of benzoin,
and 2oz. flowers of oxzoin. When well
shaken it should be applied with a sponge
and allowed to dry, then dust the face with
a soft cloth. Even if you have been using
expensive creams, powders or rouge, you
will be surprised how much nicer this lotion
will make your complexion and how delight-
fully smooth and soft your skin will become
under its influence. It will save you money,
too. because it takes the place, in your daiiy
toilet, of the best cream, powder or rouge
,vou can obtain, and the cost is compara-
tively small.—A dvt.
The Safety of Your Car Rests on its Tyres
Therefore —
BUY THE BEST:
uy
19 nsn
yre
MARCUS CLARK (& CO. LIMITED,
Sole Distributing Agents for N.S.W.
TELEPHONE : CITY 2567.
Garage 8 Showrooms: 162 Castlereag'h Street, SYDNEY
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
SUPED
FCATURES
Curtain, after a long illness, for Aus-
tralian soubrette Hilda. Fraser (Mrs. God-
frey Castieau), who in her time played many
parts. Her best years were spent with the
Broughs, but she had plenty of work later on
in Andersonian and other melodramas. Mrs.
Castieau was a daughter of Scots-parson
Duncan Fraser, of Heidelberg. Her sister
Fanny, who has been a prop and stay td the
girl-boarders of the Presbyterian Ladies’
College these many years, lias spilt much ink
in the Mel bourne weeklies and elsewhere.
An aeroplane accident in England last
week put Albert Whelan and Bert Levy into
mourning. Each lost a son born in' Mel-
bourne. Albert Whelan, the brilliant mimic,
is one of the Waxman family and a brother
of Louis Waxman, the Melbourne solicitor
and bowls champion who died last year. Bert
Levy, the clever black-and-white artist and
showman, married a Miss Waxman. The
two boys in the aeroplane were first cousins.
THE MEETING.
“Charlie Chaplin has been drafted.”— U.S.A. cable.
BAIRNSFATHER : “Now, where have I seen
this blinkin' cove before?”
Dorothy Brunton, it seems, is returning to
Australia under re-engagement to the J. C.
Williamson firm. She went to America at a
very inauspicious time. Her festive girlish-
ness is pretty much of the American type;
so she was taking musical-comedy coals to
Newcastle when the war had affected busi-
ness and numbers of rival merchants were
battling for orders. Fortunately she hasn’t
lost much time over the trip.
“First Old Man”: There is no rule without
an exception. The visiting ingenue usually
travels with her mother. Thais Lawton, the
leading lady of the G.B.P. combination, has
created a new precedent by bringing dad.
“ J.F.H.”: Ellen Terry celebrated her 70tli
anniversary on February 27 ou the stage of
London Coliseum, where she is playing Por-
tia in the trial scene from “The Merchant of
Venice”—her best Shakspearean role.
Crowded house, much enthusiasm, flowers,
congratulations, presents and telegrams at
curtain-fall—including one from Bernhardt:
“a million salutations” to her ‘'dear sister in
art.” They wanted a speech; and after
shaking her head again and again she sobbed
a few words.
“The Grafter”: Audiences who have
weary songs and dreary songs slowly poured
into their ears ma.v
be interested to
learn that a prac-
tice has grown up
in the profession
of giving back-
sheesh to tiie a 11-
powe r f u 1 “pro-
ducer.’' A star with
a likely song to
push has a word
with the potentate.
If the song gets
“across”—and all
,h an d s do their
darnedest to see
that it is well-
drilled into the
audiences—the star
can calculate on
getting from the
music - publishers
about four times
the a m ount of
backsheesh de-
The Scarlet Trouba-
dours, at Sydney
Playhouse.
Courtney Ford.
manded by the stage autocrat. London and
New York are not the only places where
this game is played.
Norman Campbell, of 101 shows, lias left
the road. The Primary Industries Develop-
ment League (N.S.W.) has taken advantage
of his knowledge of Australia and induced
him to be its secretary.
Mrs. Victor Grayson, wife of the ex-
Socialist member for Colne Valley, has died
in M.L. On the stage she was known as
Ruth Norreys, and she played for a while in
Sydney before her husband, then in very bad
health, went to Maoriland. He enlisted a
few months ago.
“8.J.”: Australia will not see the Omar
Khayyam play in which Guy Bates Post
scored a success in the U.S. So far as this
country is concerned, Guy’s second string—
which he will pull should “The Masquer-
ader” fail to run for the full eight weeks of
his Melbourne and Sydney seasons—will be
“The Nigger,” manufactured by Edward
Sheldon, whose “Romance” was brilliantly
introduced to Australia by Madge Fabian.
Post created the name-part of “The Nigger”
in the country that occasionally fries ’em.
The story deals with the love of two men for
a woman, and the trouble that happens when
one fincis out that his rival has tar in his
blood.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Pinero’s latest, “The
Freaks,” produced by Dot Boucicault at the
New, tends to confirm the suspicion that the.
old man’s stock of stage ideas is almost ex-
hausted. This “idyll of suburbia” is a far-
fetched, unconvincing, discursive, incoherent
story of a company of circus freaksv spend-
ing a week in the society of a typical subur-
ban household in compliance with a provision
in an eccentric will. Their presence leads to
amatory and other complications; also the
giant gets sick and the local vicar holds a
prayer-meeing for his recovery, which duly
transpires. Here and there are patches of
smart . Pinerotie dialogue, but the general
effect is unequal, incongruous and mystify-
ing. Pinero suggests that he meant it to be
a ‘sermon-comedy,” enforcing the moral that
the people who stare at freaks are more
freakish themselves; but he does not develop
this promising idea or make it dramatically
effective.
“The Bing Girls,” a first attempt to trade
on the popularity of this family name was a
comparative failure, but “The Bing Boys on
Broadway,” produced at London Alhambra
lately, is bringing in the shekels. Counter-
parts of Emma and .the two Bings (one of
them American) are introduced, and some-
thing of a plot, with crooks in it. gives the
revue some coherence.
Cecil Brooking, who supplied such a
natural study of the fatuous Alaric in “Peg
o’ My Heart,” is out of grease-paint' and
into war-paint. He has passed the medical
officer and gone to Broadmeadows.
“F.N.T.”: “Stargazer” says something
when he refers (B. 18/4/T8) to the un-
stinted applause, arranged by the manage-
ment for every first-night show, good or bad.
It has always caused .me hearty amusement,
during a long experience of opening perform-
ances, to observe the ushers loudly clapping
their hands in dark corners whenever the
time seemed ripe; and further amusement,
sitting three rows of stalls away from the
orchestra, to notice the kettle-drummer keep-
ing the enthusiasm going, steady and strong,
whenever there seemed enough gamp-banging
and footwork to make his efforts not too
obvious. But there—l’m easily amused.
She comes to light again in “The Rain-
bow”—the American Iceberg Heroine: that
compound of virtue and frigidity which
Yankee writers and artists of the Dana Gib-
son type used to be so fond of representing
as an object for hopeless adoration by male
worms. Ruth Sumner left her husband 10
years before the curtain went up because,
in circumstances over which he had very
little control, he broke a promise not to play
cards with her rotter of a brother. After
10 years their 17-year-old daughter visits
pop and loves him for his grey hairs and
winning ways, but the play’s heroine drags
the child from him because he is a vicious
person who plays auction bridge and goes to
races. Advances by dad towards a reconcilia-
tion are of no avail until the last act, when
the chilly lady graciously consents to live
with him again, probably in the hope that she
will give him fatal chilblains or incurable
chapped lips. This sort of play does more
than anything to delude pap-brained girls
into thinking tlpat man’s love can best be
won by treating him with studious contempt
and will thrive upon a diet of iced insults.
Roydon Purves, manager of the Tivoli at
Brisbane, was married a. few days ago to
Lorna Paterson. She was w r ith the original
Follies. The young man, who is a son of
Maud Brandon, a well-known Shakspearean
actress of 20 years ago, has repeatedly been
turned down by the recruiters.
From London :
Marie Lohr lias hit the bull’s-eye with her first
shot. “Love in a Cottage” has settled down for
a long run, and “Daddy’s” girl will be under no
necessity to requisition any of the other plays she
has up her sleeve until the approach of next
Christmas.
“Stargazer”: The Old Pro. talked of the
sensitive audience and its susceptibilities. “I
have been before them for over 40 years, and
I know pretty well what a full house is going
to feel like before I go on. You would be
surprised to know
to what an extent
audiences are in-
fluenced by the
events of the day.
more especially by
big sporting fix-
tures. On a race
Satu r d ay when
favorites get in
ahead, the audi-
ence is bright and
spontaneous, quick
on to the points,
easily pleased, lib-
eral with applause.
On a big day when
the bookies have
had it in the neck
four or five times,
the audience almost
acts the play itself.
The reverse is
equally striking. A
bad day will give
you an audience
that behaves much
like a good fam-
ily at mother’s
funeral; dam p,
glum; despising
the actors, detest-
ing the play. Then
the poor player
has to put up
“The Masquerader
at Melbourne King’s.
Thais Lawton as Eve
Chilcote hoping for
love.
with the sprinkling of applause he gets from
the bookmakers.”
A couple of imported damsels were strug-
gling through their first songandance the
other day. The man who had imported them
tried hard to make out the words of the song
they were gasping and squeaking in a
strange jargon. At last he gaVe it up.
“Here! Somebody take a dictionary round
to those women !,”
“Kopai” : I’ve been to hear Charles Wald-
ron, and it's made me home-sick. I was born
near Birmingham (Eng.), where the Senti-
mental Blokes of the Black Country—we
call them “peakyblinders” there, from the
pent-house style of jockey-cap they affect-
squeak a quaint r-less argot found nowhere
else even among England’s countless dialects.
But Waldron has it. He says "way-uld” for
world, “gay-ul” for giifJ. and, as he’s
making love to Katlilene Macdonell most of
the time to the effect that she’s the nicest
little gay-ul in the way-uld. he says it pretty
often. Now how on earth does an American
man of culture come to talk pure Stafford-
shire—and why does he keep on doing it?
“Fax” : To my way of thinking, there h
no greater incongruity in the performance of
“The Willow Tree,” which is a tissue of in-
congruities, than the association of Miss
Macdonell’s harsh masculine voice with a
gentle, spiritual Japanese character. If she
only talked in her sweet singing tones Miss
Mac’s performance would be more persua-
sive. though the assumed innocence of the
Willow Tree Girl could never give a tinge of
poetic color to the conventional indelicacy of
her reference to eggs and roosters, or her
suggestion of a meal of dog’s flesh when she
objects to boiled fish.
“Ancient Prompter”: The author of
“Within the Law” has scored another with
his “13th Chair.” After a long run in
America, the creepy melodrama is filling the
Duke of York’s, London, with Mrs. Pat
Campbell in the lead, and lately it wafe
staged in Paris for the only Rejane to star
in. It comes to Australia soon, with the
playwright’s better-half as leading-lady.
Jack Seymour Mann, one of the best
scenic artists ever sent to Australia by
America or any other country, was prompted
by the war to go into the making of pig-
ments, and has now a kalsomine factory in
Sydney. Anti-corrosive paint was mostly a
German production, but Mann has started on
this now in a commercial way, despite diffi-
culties of finding the raw material in dis-
tricts whence transport does not kill profit.
AS IT SOMETIMES SEEMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The moving-picture industry is suffering from the
all-round increase in the cost" of materials in U.S.A.
The film producer tore his hair.
He saw the cost of movies rise
And profits fall; so in despair
Decided to economise.
He paid the star “a thousand per”
(Per week not year), but who was he
To even dare suggest to her
That times required economy!
The cash the “vamp.” was wont to pay
For flimsy microscopic dress
tie could not cut, lest she display
An unembargoed nakedness.
Five hundred pounds had gone to meet
The cost of dinners and the like;
But banquets he could not delete
For fear the supers went on strike.
The needless things he vainly sought,
Till through his brain a notion shot.
“Eureka 1 ’Tis a brilliant thought!
We’ll do without a yoldarn plot!”
N.S..V.
BOB DEXTER.
A PROVINCIAL SUCCESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Solly Seekum’s Stellar Dramatic Co. has just
returned from a most successful season in the pro-
vinces, and is now resting, preparatory to starting
' ’ on a tour of the northern centres.”
The gifted Dana Gibbs came back
From distant Teddywaddy.
His face was cut, his eye was black,
He’d bruises on the body.
He’d been with Solly Seekum’s Co.
In homely drama acting.
“I could not stay,” said he. “You know,
The pace was too exacting.
“We played six shows a week, and that
Wretch Seekum is so stilted.”
We asked him why his hose was flat,
And why his ear had wilted.
“Ah that ?” he asked. “The work I do
No rural favor gat me—
A varlet in the audience threw
A ripe banana at me.”
*‘A ripe banana ? And you’ve got
Some damage to your traction,
An eye that’s just an azure blot,
And one arm out of action! ”
“My head likewise is very sore;
I’ve unseen wounds,” sighed Dana.
“With frenzy when the act was o’er
We fought for that banana!”
VICTORU.
STARGAZER.


'VI
&
l
I
mmm
m
t#
*:i
&
5: 5
mmm
■of
m
S}.
i
*5
wmm
w
V
sd
£385
Choose An Overland
fhe great Overland range of models includes a car for
practically every need of motoring.
And the popularity of Overland cars is due to five distinct advan-
tages— appearance, performance, comfort, service and price.
Here we show the famous Model 90, a car light enough
to be very “mobile,” yet heavy enough to hold the road easily;
powerful, easy to drive and easy to ride in.
Investigate this Model 90 at your early convenience. Then,
with hundreds of thousands of other people, you will choose
an Overland.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Australian Distributors—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW FALKtN&R MOTOR CO., Melbourne
AUTOCAR LTD., Adelaide
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE &. CO. LTD., Hobart,
Tasmania
w
m
: >y*
1 v.
A A
am
\'-K
'X : •
•■ • ; .
•;.u ;v<>
. > ■:
*' i .'«*'£*s
«»> ; V-'
V- r>
®a
• -✓ . jV.'i ,
*#K
S«5:
; t-:.’
. ’X ■ ;•'
111
■: >\ ; ,
. * <‘vj
■ v Vv
‘Ah
w •. *;K'..r.v
V, X '/S:>
V>Vx;!f
*vs l)i ’i
Ami
• iv *.< - v
' c-
v v 'i.
B#P£
> V
V*
X'!
MO'-
■■•*.
*. * .-<
*
m
< IN
fv'.
O
*•<
V> :> :i
*•74 ; '-!&$
warn
ivm
r>>
t&4
m
&
mi
t
J
•1
»*
s%
me
k-Kk
kfJ*
;:/?V
>3
y
* -N
VT
'• ’■:*■
If:
JT *»a
ryN*
**•{
itt;
y*
n- n
< ..
v>«®
>•
72
*&&&<?hi '*>? *r c* 1 ! v y
/ % Jg> •
v>-
|»m, A
"■£.**.<* .KxV
.***£* - .
e.' »■. *. *• • ;x> /> v
m
m
m
■r
\)
WIM
■ p \<s«
r-*« if*'iV?+ t 4
•<v«.
mm
H
tWiUiV
m
mm
m
m
mm#
ViA
m
yMi
«
i%
ctz
As. ■■
;» v^
t-r.
m
,r>
f iv
sy
vC'; -••'.< -
"Mi
'M
XT
ffv- ;*x
*»»
C!J
,f/'r:
«
J?4«ss
ycvti '***]<:•?(« i T .- >6*’ , ;i , f.
*
&
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc.
iT62 Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.


London's Beauty Writers,
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
The Killing of Superfluous Hair.
It is easy to remove superfluous hair tem-
porarily, but to remove it permanently is
quite another matter. Not many women
know that for this purpose such a simple
substance as powdered pheminol may be
used, applied directly to the hair. The recom-
mended treatment is designed not merely to
instantly remove the lmir. but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Almost any
chemist could supply an ounce of pheminol,
which quantity should be sufficient.
Renewing- Complexions by Absorption.
If your complexion is marred with sallow-
ness, moth patches, pimples or freckles, it is
useless to potter with powders and paints,
lotions, creams and things in an effort to get
rid of the trouble. Unless you have some
ability as an artist, you will mar your ap-
pearance still more. The new and rational
way is to take off the complexion itself, with
all its offensive marks. Just get some pure
mercolized wax at the chemist’s and use at
night the same as cold cream. Remove next
morning with water and soap, following with
dash of cold water. The mercolized wax
absorbs the half-dead scarf skin in flaky
particles, so gradually that no one guesses
you are treating your face—unless it be by
the result, which is truly wonderful. There
is nothing like it for bestowing a natural,
healthy and beautiful complexion.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of . stymol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot. water, which will
then of course “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the face is bathed
with the stymol-charged water and then dried
with a towel. The offending blackheads, of
their own accord, come right off on the
towel, the large oily pores immediately con-
tract and efface themselves naturally. There
is no squeezing, forcing, or any drastic
action. The skin is left uninjured, smooth,
soft and cool. A few such treatments should
be taken at intervals of three or four days'
thereafter in order to insure the permanence
of the pleasing result so quickly obtained.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often down-right injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless man-
ner. You have only to get two ounces of
tammalite concentrate from your chemist and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum to prove
(his. Apply tills, simple and harmless lotion
for a few nights to the hair with a small
sponge, and the greyness will gradually dis-
appear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in pos-
session of the formula.
About Shampoos.
To quote an eminent London beauty
specialist: “The slimy egg cannot dissolve
the scalp impurities, but only adds to the
trouble by completely choking the pores with
animal matter.” The substance sticks, de-
composes, thereby causing tjie hair to assume
a dead, “dull color.” Avoid eggs (and soap
too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in vour hair,
will clear and prevent dandruff, and leave
(hat fine fluffy effect so much sought after.
It also removes excess oil or greasiness. [1
Superior to Marking Ink.
f THE
muon
ffleaVmgj&os'
.WOVEN NAMES
; Made in
_ _ ieat;
?tylish,^^ectf^
Af*\+ “__
OE PROCURED THROUGH^
any up-to-date Mercer or Draper.
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
Is a guarantee of QaaM^
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
'iaiOH mmm
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE
Overlooking: Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You 11 like it too!!
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL,
Corner Swanston St. & Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
TARIFF:
Bed & Breakfast . . .. (]/-
launch (Special) . . . . 1/6
Dinner 3/-
CLAUDE R. KERR, Proprietor.
Energy
«£
s^\;'
&
ip
rr
U
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health ; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire~needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its history
' J HE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
gds
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALL. BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
Flight StafßanT car J
A PROVED LIGHT CAR with a Colonial
Reputation for Reliability under any Conditions.
Make sure of getting early
delivery of a Post War Model.
V
a
£1
JO
TO
/<£«n<s —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
hoard MOTOR CO. Ltd., COVE Nt
TWt A A £H GLj
4Hq m
k i rvco ••
y /-/? /r f-AND’S
_ v^n^* 3 -
M
\£
The Baking Powder with a
Reputation.
Thousands of housewives all over Australia have
discovered that their cakes, scones and pastry are
lighter and more digestible when they use
Ireland’s Baking Powder
Moreover every tin of Ireland's Baking Powder is
fully guaranteed, without reservation or restriction,
and should the contents for anv reason not meet
with the approval of the purchaser, it may be
returned to the grocer and he will refund the
purchase price.
All grocers know of this and will accept the return
without quibbling, if you are dissatisfied, because
they know that we will make it good with them.
IRELAND’S BAKING POWDER is pure and reliable
because accurately mixed to a well-tried recipe.
ALL GROCERS SELL IRELAND'S. REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle
Tweed Heads (N.S.W.) gave Three
Cheers for Australia when war began. Each
had a bayonet at the end of it. Their mother,
Mrs. Isabella Cheers, died last month.
J. M. Barrie, after having made himself
a millionaire by many years of successful
play-writing, is reverting to his literary
love, and will shortly publish another novel.
His earliest story brought him three guineas.
It, is expected that he will make at least
five out of his latest.
As an f.a.q. sample of the tired Australian
call Richard Victor Shields. B.A. The youth
was an Arts student at Sydney Uni. when
Kaiser Bill got busy. Throwing away his books
he fell into khaki, went to the Front, was
wounded, won the Military Cross, returned
to Sydney, tackled his books again, and
scored his B.A. with a tiptop pass. He
hobbled along on crutches to receive his
ticket.
“Marigold”: Looking back, it seems to me
that the Hun is one of the world's champion
legpullers. When the German training-ship
Ilertzogen Sophia Charlotte was in Sydney
some 12 or 14 years ago, we entertained some
of the officers at our home, and. later, were
invited on board for afternoon-tea. After
being supplied with samples of German cook-
ery, singing, dancing, etc., we asked the
officers what they thought of Sydney. “Veil,
your city is very nice, and your harbor pcau-
tiful. verypeautiful.” “And what of our
people?” “Your ladies, like your harbor, are
peautiful; but your men—ach! They are
rude! They have no manners!” And we
took that and more as meekly as we had
taken-their afternoon-tea ! Well, I’Ll he ready
for the next smirking butcher who libels my
countrymen.
From the Great Fog
Glasgow was selected by Zangwill for the first
performance of his new play, “Too Much Money"
—our Lillah McCarthy in the lead. An aesthetic
young person is married to a wealthy, prosaic
man with little or no knowledge, understanding or
sympathy with her outlook. She is constantly be-
moaning her fate in being tied to such an impossible
husband. To cure her he pretends to go bankrupt,
and they are suddenly transformed from luxury to
lodgings in a garret. Of course it works in accord-
ance with his desires: the lady’s tastes are revolu-
tionised, and she becomes a new woman under the
“cleansing fires of poverty.” The play had an
excellent reception and its early transference to
London is assured. By the way, the population of
Glasgow has now reached 1,105,000, recent gains
having been extraordinarily rapid. The Millions
Club that was so ambitious to make Sydney the
acknowledged “Second City of the Empire” would
have had a pretty stiff contract.
“F.N.T.”: Tbe registration of ice-cream
makers under the Vic. Health Act is all
very well, but Bumble doesn’t help as he
should in protecting the kids from filth
diseases. At Hawthorn, for “failing to
keep their premises in a proper condition,”
a pair of ice-cream merchants named
Williams (Alfred and William) were re-
cently fined a tenner between them, with a
couple of sovs. for allied misdemeanors. The
Health inspector said that “in the ice-cream
room he noticed a very objectionable odor.
Underneath a dilapidated box was a bag
blocking a drain.” A tenner for a murderous
offence of this kind ! One child’.a funeral on a
moderate scale costs more than that.
“De Oriel”: The brewer’s poster, well
known in the South, depicting a bearded and
ruddy old man delightedly scoffing a pint,
is a reproduction of old Sam Nott, who
passed in his check at Wood’s Point (Vic.)
a while ago. Sam had been quite thriftless,
so his neighbors agreed to give him his
send-off free of charge. Time being limited
the burial party commandeered all kinds of
boxes and built a shell for the departed.
It weighed about scwt. Rain fell pitilessly
as six men bore old Sam aloft, while curi-
ous residents read the trade signs on the
coffin. The parson got shipwrecked on the
road, and when the honorary undertakers
started to lower the box into the grave,
which was half-filled with water, one rope
slipped, and down went Sam with a mighty
splash, almost drowning his audience.
“8.D.”: Now that prices are jumping
shopkeepers are making a good part of
their living by buying each other’s goods.
Whenever the Price Fixing Board puts up a
new record or someone in the trade boldly
shoves on another 25 or 50 p c., the fellows
who happen to hear of it. send round and
buy all they can get at the old prices. Some
of the little suburban tobacconists didn’t
hear of the recent push for a day or so and
they did a roaring trade —until they tumbled
to it. A grocer and mixed-goods dealer had
a line of slates which used to give him a
fair profit at 4d. each. Noticing that- the
demand was livening up he raised the price
to sd. on general principles, and has been
kicking himself ever since he found out that
most of the buying was done by emissaries
of a big rival who is now selling at 9d. One
result of all this is that price-tickets are
getting unpopular; they give too much in-
formation to the enemy.
Another Sydney war-baby, the No-
Imperial Federation League, has died, or,
rather, has permitted itself to be swallowed
by a newly-formed Advance Australia
League. The anti-imperial hoof was raised
by W. J. Miles in 1916, and Miles, who up
to that time had never taken an active part
in politics, has been the life and brain of the
movement ever since. The first and main
plank in the Advance Australia League is
to resist any reduction in Australian
autonomy, and the vehemence with wliich
this has been maintained has given the im-
pression that the League is really a Cut-the-
Painter Society, though Miles is emphati-
cally against that. The new league is com-
posed mainly of Labor supporters, pacifists
and Socialists, though Miles, who is secre-
tary, treasurer and general controller, is
none of these things. The president is
George. Waite, a well-known Socialist, who
when in normal health does hard manual
work all day and spends his evenings and
Sundays lecturing and organising for the
international brotherhood which he sees loom-
ing in the distance. When Miles is not
planning to defeat the aims of the Imperial-
ists he is working on freethought propa-
ganda. He is all accountant by profession,
but well-gilded enough to make a struggle
for his daily crust unnecessary.


Mafhifi
Mr**
S
w,
.-•
•' ss
C 3
1800
,/■
Electrical Equipment Mining Machinery
Machine Tools Wood Working Machines
Steel Making and Rolling Mill Equipment
Sugar Machinery Textile Machines
Contractors’ Equipment
Complete Saw Mills Railroad Material
Cranes of all kinds .
Boilers, Steam Engines and Motors
Agricultural Implements
Keep yourself posted on latest improved machinery. Write
for Vulcan Machinery Bulletin and Leather Binder.
The Vulcan Engineering Staff will gladly answer your every inquiry.
Plans, specifications and cost data worked out for the
most complicated installations.
VULCAN STEEL PRODUCTS COMPANY, 120 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
FRANK B. SMITH,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W
’Phone: 9148 City.
Hupmobile Breaks Fremantle to Sydney Record by
45 hours, 18 minutes.
On Tuesday, January 29, at 8.15 a.m., Messrs. Burton and Smith, of West Australia, left Fremantle with a
STOCK MODEL HUPMOBILE in an attempt to lower the existing record between Fremantle and Sydney
Below is appended the distances, times and previous times between the various towns.
Former Hupmobile Beating Average
Record New Former Miles per
Places Miles from Time. Record. Record. lioui.
Fremantle. Hrs. Mts. Hrs. Mts. Hrs. Mts.
COOLGARDIE 367 18 30 17 O *3°
NORSEMAN' 467 34 15 22 50 11 2o
BALLADONJA «14 51 30 31 5 20 25
EUCLA. 935 76 30 55 5o 20 3.)
PENONG . . 1212 101 30 71 0 30 30
PORT AUGUSTA 1538 133 0 93 oo 39 5 In?" 10
BROKEN HILL 1942 131 oo 10,6
COBAR 2235 144 0
DUBBO.. 2430 16 0
SYDNEY 2677 170 17 45 18 24
AVERAGE MILES PER HOUR EN ROUTE, 15.7 M.P.H.
Left Fremantle 8.15 a.m. on January 29, arrived Sydney February 5 at 12.32 p.m.
FREHANTLE TO PORT AUGUSTA, 1538 Miles, in 93 hours 55 minutes; Average, 16.3 miles per hour.
PORT AUGUSTA TO BROKEN HILL, 404 miles in 38 hours; Average, 10.6 miles per hour.
BROKEN HILL TO DUBBO, 488 miles, in 28 hours 5 minutes; Average, 17.3 miles per hour.
DUBBO TO SYDNEY, 248 miles, in 10 hours 17 minutes; Average, 24 miles per hour.
FREMANTLE TO SYDNEY, TOTAL MILEAGE 2677 MILES, in 7 days 2 hours 17 minutes.
AVERAGE MILEAGE PER GALLON OF BENZINE* 15.7.
FROM PORT AUGUSTA MR. BURTON LEFT THE BEATEN TRACK, via Adelaide and Melbourne, and
struck out across the desert and WASHOUTS FOR BROKEN HILL." The nature of this country can be
imagined when it is shown above that it took 38 hours to do 404 miles on an average of only 10.6 miles per hour.
It is worthy of note that the only spares carried by the motorists were a Crown A heel, a Stub Axle and two Main Spring Leaves, none of
which were needed. They depended entirely on their Electric Installation for Lights.
The whole performance speaks volumes for Hupmobile Reliability and Service .
Dealers in Australi and New Zealand
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Melbourne.
PHOENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICIv & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.— Cable Address: “RCPP DETROIT.’


Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
“P IV O H THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Nightly, S. Matinee Wednesday 2.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF VAUDEVILLE.
„ , _ SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 31,
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents the Great London Revue
of the times, entitled
D 1 TIME please.
1 lans at Nicholson’s and Theatre.
‘IYOLI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 AND 8.
Last Nights and Matinees of the Record-breaking
Success.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents the much-talked-of Revues
SAMPLES.
A Sparkling and Dazzling Production.
Puces: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
H EK MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 1.45.
J. C. Williamson Ltd.’s Gorgeous, Spectacular
PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
C ItIT ®RI <> N T>l EAT R E. SYDNEY
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. '
EVERY EVENING AT 8. Matinfie Wednesday at 2.
MURIEL STARR
in fiist production in Sydney of the Hawaiian play,
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
DAL A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY
r EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
J. AND N. TAIT present
EMELIE FOLINI
AND NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
DE LUXE ANNIE,
A Thrilling Mystery Comedy Drama.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
PLAYHOUSE, CASTLE REAGH STREET
* SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee SYDNEY JAMES.
Direction JOHN HOPKINS.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEES SATURDAY 2.30.
THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS.
THE FOLKS WHO MAKE YOU GLAD.’
Programme Changed Thursdays.
Plan at Paling’s and Theatre. ’Phone City 246.
gnce»: 3/-, 2/-. 1/-. Saturdays 4/-, plus Tax.
\ ou haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJNION PICTURE THEA T R E S
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE,- LYRIC, EMPRESS.
Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. .Barrington Miulkii, General Manager.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
H
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
the “Last Word” in Revues,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TRUE AT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction ,T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Farewell to KATIILENE MACDONELL.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE WILLOW TREE.
SATURDAY, MAY 11.
Six Nights and a Matinf-e.
THE OUTCAST.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present
GUY BATES POST
(the Greatest Actor who has ever visited Australia)
in
THE MASQUERADER.
A Dramatisation of Katherine Cecil Thurston’s Novel,
“John Chilcote, M.P.”
Prices as Usual. Plans at Allan’s.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEES SATURDAY 2.30.
Features
REBECCA OF SUNNY BROOKS FARM.
HOUSE PETERS in
AS MEN LOVE.
Prices as usual.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
ENGLAND’S FOREMOST' RECITER.
THE INCOMPARABLE
ALEXANDER WATSON
in
A Short Series of Unique Recitals.
Change of Programme Every Evening.
3/-, 2/'-, 1/-. Box Plan at Glen’s.
CARLYLE SMYTHE,
BIJOU THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
1 TWICE DAILY.
FULLER’S ALL STAR VAUDEVILLE.
Hickey and Rose, Ted Russell, Ray Traynor, Mdlle.
L’Espero, Leywood and Norell, Billy Seaton, Baron
the Ventriloquist, Madame Lorenzo.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
jjy| A JESTIC THEATRE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY. !
THOS. 11. INCE’S
Mightiest Spectacle,
THE ZEPPELIN’S LAST RAID.
Matinees Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plans at Allan’s.
Amusements.
gRITAKNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 2d. and Gd.
Amusements.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITA GRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
awsons
ewar
THE LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE.
WORLD-FAMED FOR QUALITY GEMS.
The Rest Qualities ami Values are sold direct to the
Public by the 10 Stewart Dawson Establishments in
Australia and London.
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Brisbane,
Perth,
Auckland,
Wellington,
Dunedin,
Christchurch.
J 223 —Fine Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
set in Platinum
and 18-et. Gold,
£lO/10/-
K79—Fine Dia-
mond and Platinum
Cluster Ring,
£ll/10/-
73 to 81
Regent
Street,
London.
1!), 20, 21
Hatton
Garden,
London.
Superb Diamond Rings
Fashionable, Unique and Exclusive Designs in Immense Varieties.
The Finest Quality Diamonds and Skilled Workmanship are
characteristic of every Ring offered, while our Prices save
money to every buyer.
All our Diamonds are Platinum Set.
CALL AND INSPECT. OR WRITE FOR RING CATALOGUE.
STEWART DAWSONS
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
Doi)’t Experin)cot.
The Real Thing in Razors is the '“Plum.” Gets
through the job in a quarter the time, and makes •
the business a pleasure. “The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor.”’
THE, “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
AH the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEH,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM*’
Razor.
Demin
um
.44 Gal.l
Repeating
Rifle—
rr''
<s<
7
V\
n:
A 4
The
Universal
Arm
'PROPORTIONATE to
their size and power the .44
caliber cartridges are the lowest in
price.. They are universally used
and wi Ug ive excellent results with
the Remington UMG .44 caliber
Repeating Rifle.
"Write for special descriptive
booklet sent free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D D. BRYANT. Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
śg
Thatsdir»t
There is only one filing Lacking in
Thats dint - Guaranteed not to contain
Plaster gr Paris Leslie Salt' Licks are Pure
All Saddlers, Blacksmiths. Stores & Produce Merchants.
Leslie Salt Licks aie the product of sea and sunshine. Sea salt condensed and
solidified by hydraulic pressure on the sunny coast of California. They do not
sweat or weep like rock salt. Order some to-dc.y.
2 1* per Block, or 22/6 per Case of One Dozen.
Wholesale from:—
BUZACOTT & CO., 7-11 Market Street.
HOT,DSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO., 252 George Street
HOOKER, CHAPMAN & CO., 188 Sussex Street.
HARRY SHELLY, 185 Clarence Street.
FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD., Phillip Street.
WATSON & NOBEE, 257 Sussex Street,
v N.S.W. PRODUCE CO., 226 Sussex Street.
.Retail:—
NOCK & KIRBY; LTI) V George Street North
Country Orders: Freight to be added.
(Near Quay).
wanted,
QUEENSLAND,
WANTED a General Manager foi* State
Butcheries, Queensland, at a Salary
ot ±<oo per aiibutUi Applications should
the Office of "The Under-Secretary,
Chief Secretary’s Department, Brisbane,” on
or before the loth June next, accompanied
by Applicants testimonials from previous
employers, and Statements of experience in
butchering establishments,
Legal Notices.
I N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND,
1 TOWNSVILUB, No, 90 of 1917.
matrimonial jurisdiction.
Mr, JUSTICE SHAND,
BETWEEN LOUIS GRASSET, Plaintiff, and
FLORENCE MAUD GRASSES, Defendant, and
b RtDERtCIv CHARLES COE, 00-defendaiit,
To the Co-defendant FREDERICK CHARLES COE:
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
Twelfth day of December 1917 commenced against
you and the aboVenamed Florence Maud Grasset and
that the Plaintiff by his writ of summons claims a
dissolution of his marriage with Florence Maud
Grasset the defendant herein AND by his petition
filed in this Honorable Court on the Twelfth tiav
of December 1917 the plaintiff alleges that in the
month of May 1913 and from that month Unto the
month of August 1914 you the said Frederick
Charles Coe frequently visited the said Florence
Maud Grasset at Cairns in the State of Queensland
and on divers of such occasions committed adulterv
with the said Florence Maud Grasset AND TAKE
NOTICE that the Court has by Order dated the
Fifth day of January 1918 authorised service of the
said writ and petition on you by insertion of this
Notice not less than twice in each of the following
newspapers; The Cairns Post and the SVdnev
Bulletin AND TAKE NOTICE ALSO that yoii are
required within six months after the date of the
last insertion of this advertisement to cause an
appearance to be entered for you at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at Townsville
and that in default of your so doing the Plaintiff
may proceed in this action and that judgment may
he given against you in your absence.
Dated the Fifth day of February, 1918.
(1.5.) D. CAMPBELL, Registrar.
EDWARD B. STEELE,
Solicitor for Plaintiff, Cairns.
BuMiicn* N otlccs.
IT’S GREAT
2s
I
m
©
Wi
how I find I cau
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Eyes and Crowle Ltd., Pirie St., Adel-
aide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0.,
Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto Supplies Co.
Pty., Elizabeth St., Melbourne; R. R.
Russack, 3Jla Elizabeth St., Sydney;
Philip Erankel & Co.. Edward St.,
Brisbane.
Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sioep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Safe for
children.
<f1
mm
ITTLB
IVER
Pll
Small Pill— Small Dosa—Small Prloa.
GENUINE must bear signature
DON'T JVORRY,
Anxiety and worry have most harmful
effects upon the nervous system. Overwork
also causes a man to become nervous and
inclined to worry. This feeble state of the
nervous system often ends in what the doctors
jail neurasthenia—which is nervous ex-
haustion. If you cannot devote your mind
fully to business or work; if you are not
sure of yourself; feel excitable and depressed ;
take heed. You will find sleep does not rest
you, your memory will play tricks, your limbs
ache and tremble after any walk or exer-
tion, and there will be a dull pain in your
back.
You must take prompt steps to stop this
progressive mischief that may develop into
neurasthenia; you must nourish your nerves
with the one food they need—rich new blood.
Nothing so surely renews the supply of
strong red blood as Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, and this is the reason they are so valu-
able in nervous diseases of both sexes. Even
children benefit from the use of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. It is often said that Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are as
good as a holiday both for workers and the
wealthy.
The price of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is
2/9 per box or six boxes 15/3. Your own
chemist sells _ them or they will be sent on
receipt of price by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Box 594, G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
EOR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney,


Child Suffered In-
tensely With Burning.
Cuticura Healed.
"My little boy came out in small hard,
white lumps like hives. They were very
=r>N
irritating and he scratched
them. Eruptions were
formed on his face and
hands, feet and legs. He
suffered intensely with
burning, itching and loss
of sleep, and I was kept
awake at night.
“I saw Cuticura Soap
and Ointment advertised
so I thought I would give it a trial. I
got some more Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment and he was healed.’ (Signed)
Mrs. McDonald, Orangan, Q.
You may rely on Cuticura to care
for your skin, scalp, hair and hands.
Nothing better to clear the skin of
pimples, blotches, redness and rough-
ness, the scalp of dandruff and the hands
of chapping and soreness.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world. ,
CHRISTIE’S
SPEOAUEf
TWO
L/NES
|# S
S
CATALOGUE
/xN^
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
sdg
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ZC /iONTER §' r NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
ELEY .410 "Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY .22 Long Rifle
“E” Brand
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S. W.
Whole salt only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
Wo¥R SfiOf S'
can easily
be repaired
v/Hh Johnson's
PREPARED WAX
/A.
¥
SPS
■szs
Door- Ways Are The Bag-Bear
of finished floors. ’ They receive the hardest
wear, and naturally need most attention.
Busy housekeepers and careless maids allow
the finish to wear entirely off, and soon the
wood gets rough and splintery. It’s a very simple
matter to have beautiful floors if the doorways are
kept well-polished with
‘The Dust-Proof Polish”
It is splendid for linoleums, too—for it brings out
the pattern and preserves it. Johnson’s 1 Prepared
Wax imparts a beautiful, durable polish—easy to
keep clean. Less than an hour is required for pol-
ishing an ordinary-sized floor, and it may be walked
upon immediately.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempt-
ing. Hot dishes have no effect whatever upon it.
Have Your Piano, Gramophone and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish, Cloudy Appearance?
This can be, easily, quickly and permanently re-
moved with Johnson’s Prepared Wax, The Dust-'
Proof Polish. Splendid for Craftsman Furniture also.
«>«««« MO,
a
Every family has dozens of uses
for Johnson’s Prepared Wax,
Keep a tin always on hand for'
polishing your
Linos .
Floors
Woodwork
Piarid
Furniture
Motor Cat
Johnson's Prepared Wax comes
in the household and larger sizes.
It may be obtained from all
good dealers, or from
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St., Sydney, N. S. W.
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
1/6 ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. 0. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO, 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
p
&
/•
Returned A.I.F. men, even those without
monarchical sympathies, speak approvingly
of young Edward of Wales. He is reckoned
an efficient officer and takes after grandpa
Edward rather than the royal George, his
father. Despite maternal efforts to make
him a mollycoddle, the youth' is “one of the
knuts” and, like dead Edward, something of
a connoisseur of feminine loveliness.
“Inquirer”: I wish somebody would coin
a new trade phrase to take the place of the
sick-room attendant’s “doing as well as can
be expected.” When I get that drawled back
at me instead of the real information I am
after, I want to shout: “Well, how well
should he be expected to be?”
The steward of King George’s farms at
Windsor advertised recently for a married
couple “with no children” to serve as cattle-
man and cook. The same objection doesn’t
apply to bulls and cows, or pigs and poultry,
in this hour of England’s need.
A little one from France: —
One of the Chinese laborers reported himself sick.
I told him to take a rest, and afterwards asked Pills
to have a look at the man. Cause of illness: a
baby! We then discovered that no less than seven
of our gang of reputed men were women. They
all look alike to us and but for the arrival of that
little bit of China, we would never have been the
wiser.
“Ivan Pentland”: Re “T.F.M.’s” state-
ment (B. 18/4/T8) that “the chief of the
Macdonells of Glengarry,” who landed at
Port Albert (Vic.) in 1842, was “the son
and heir of the man who figures as Fergus
Maclvor in Scott’s ‘Waverley.’ ” In the book
Fergus is a lieutenant of the “Young Pre-
tender,” and is captured by the English and
hanged at Carlisle in 1745. The novelist
makes him die a bachelor; and even if that
is a departure from historic fact for the pur-
poses of the yarn, his “son and heir” would
have been a bit too long in the tooth to be
leading a cow-cockying enterprise in Aus-
tralia 97 years after Fergus’s decease.
Laggard Australia is putting a cruel strain
on its young veterans. A Sydney boy who
has proved his courage writes home to his
mother:—
I’m a grown man now, but when the time came
for me to get back to the front line, I leant my head
against the wall and cried like a kid.
That’s what modern war reduces the bravest
to if they are not spelled sufficiently. What
is Australian Labor going to do about it?
A singularly aptly-named person is Mrs.
Rosina Flutter, of Chertsey (Eng.). Mrs.
Flutter charged a young munition-worker
with assaulting her, but admitted the soft
impeachment that she was infatuated with
her Joseph. He had asked her to discon-
tinue her attentions, and had even got his
lawyer to write her on the subject. Then her
advances had provoked him to assault her
unkindly. Her age is 45, and she is mother
of 25 children, including five pairs of twins.
The lady’s remaining years of usefulness
ought not to be wasted. No 45-year-old
mother of 25 children would be allowed to
go begging for endearments in Germany.
Major Gerald Ashton, who has been
appointed Assistant-Director of Resources at
Bagdad, is a son of The Bulletin’s old
friend G. Rossi Ashtbn, who once looked
after the paper’s Melbourne cartoons. Major
Ashton has been in the Indian Army for
three years, is the youngest man of his rank
in the corps, and has been recommended for
the Military Cross. Another son of the
artist’s is also serving. Their mother was
actor George Coppin’s daughter Blanche.
Morris Crawcour, a relative of that well-
remembered Crawcour who died standing up
to a burglar at Williamstown years ago,
came back from France in 1916, all shot up
—a cot case. He spent a long time in hospi-
tal after he reached Melbourne, and was
by-and-bye discharged as unfit for further
mix-ups. But the other week he decided that
the Time was once more Ripe, and so joined
uo again with the A.I.F. Two fighting bro-
thers, by the way, have each parted with a
leg on active service.
“Peter”: “Cherokee’s” reference to Deem-
ing and the dismembered animal details (B.
18/4/T8) reminds me that Deeming’s land-
lord in Windsor (Vic.) was a local butcher
whose soul waxed fat on the prestige that
had been brought on his dwelling. After
the discovery of Mrs. Deeming the meat-
merchant had the idea of bestowing “relics”
on favored friends, and offered my respected
parent a packet of the original cement con-
taining a bit of the victim’s hair. My rela-
tive’s disgusted rejection of the parcel was
regarded as unnatural sensitiveness by
numerous neighbors.
The Eleanor Lucas whose name four-
figured in Vic. War Loan lists is probably
the humblest and least-known lender of thou-
sands to the Commonwealth. Put in her
rightful place as the head of E. Lucas and
Co., of Ballarat, and identification is easy
in rag circles. Not 20 years ago this twice-
widowed little Yorkshire dame couldn’t raise
much more than her voice. To-day,
approaching the allotted span of life, she sits
back in her picturesque Ilealesville humpy
and practises charity quietly, while her only
son, Edward Hargreaves Price, looks after
the business. In days less halcyon for the
Lucases mother and daughter arduously foot-
worked a few sewing-machines in their cot-
tage home in Ballarat East. To-day the firm
commands 500 electrically-pushed machines.
The industry flourishes on the spot where
the once great Phocenix Foundry flourished.
“D.D.”: “Felice” suggests (B. 25/4/T8)
that Matilda Maud Hennessey, C.P.S. at
Esk (Q.), is the first woman anywhere to
“unite a brace of adventurers in the toil of
matrimony.” She is not. The position of
Registrar at Paddington (N.S.W.) was
held for some years by a woman. In the
early days of this century she married two
couples I knew —the brides were sisters; and
doubtless there were others. There was a
humorous side to these two marriages. The
brides’ male parent —a Quaker, or Plymouth
Shaker, or something—objected to a parson,
and also held strong views about woman’s
place in the universe. When it was ascer-
tained that the Registrar was a woman
there were heartburnings; but as marriage
by the Registrar must be in the district
where the bride resides, there was no help
for it.


iWuWuWi
&
Kffl
Mr. EDISON SAID.—
“It seems to be about per-
fected.”
He was referring to tliat wonder instrument that
has made all talking-machines sound just like —
well, talking-machines!
The NEW EDISON
is quite different to the generally accepted idea of a reproducing
instrument.
Let us quote the illustrious inventor again. He states: “We have
eliminated all the sounds of the machinery, we have reproduced the
overtones of music, and when the voice of the machine cannot be
distinguished from the voice of the singer who made the record
when they stand side by side, there seems to be little more left
to work for.”
In a word, The NEW EDISON is perfect, and you should not delay
about getting one for YOUR home.
Write to-day for descriptive printed matter, mailed post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
!"j%
N
(ft?
710,
-till*
Waterman’s
// (Ideal)
FountamPen
V
The King of Pens,
but, unlike the King of Beasts, a
friend of man not his enemy. The
man who writes with a Waterman’s
Ideal learns to love it. The match-
less smoothness of its nib, its instant
readiness to write, its strength and
reliability, make Waterman’s Ideal
a treasure to anyone and especially
to those with much writing to do.
Three Types ;
Lever Pocket
Self-Filling,”
Safety,”
“Regular.”
r
Of Sta doners
and Jewellers
everywhere.
' L. C. SLOAN, LTD.,
Che Pen Corner,
London, England.
Australia:
Harold D. Dixon,
105 Clarence St., Sydney
Placed First
in order of merit by doctors, nurses, and mothers, through-
out the world ; prescribed by British doctors for 35 years;
used in all great hospitals, and convalescent homes ; ordered
by the Australian Red Cross for the Anzac hospitals.
This is the record of
sd
Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged.
Different from other foods and most highly nutritive.
Invaluable for backward and ailing children, in illness and
convalescence, and for aged persons.
Benger's is a most interesting food to prepare. The changes it undergoes teach a lesson
in human digestion. It is all explained in our book, post free. Every mother should read it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from.:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., : MANCHESTER, Eng’and.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117. Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U S.A.) 90, Beekman S’:. Depdts throughout Canada.
919 A
muzm
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing.
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
“KOOLAH”
SHAVING STICKS.
Delightful to use.
7d. each, post free
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
g:ood for two weeks from date.
gsd
825. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar looks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2£in. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7£lb Freight paid,
£B/10/.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOQN,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
eg
39
831. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.1j. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
holt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight
of 12-gauge 7
1 to 8i lb., 10-gauge, 7j to 8 lb.—
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
£5.
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels.
Freight paid, £5/10/-
GUNS & RIFLES of all kinds REPAIRED.
Keep your Razor
keen by using
STROPOLINE.
9d. tin poet free.
Marble’s Match Boxes,
Water & Moisture Proof.
Price 2/10 post free.
g
815. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-inch steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-eml, pistol grip, wal-
nut stock ; weight about 71b... Freight paid,
£lO/10/.
5®
Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
823. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12
711 b.: of 16-gauge, about
gauge about
Freight paid,
£8
If troubled with Mosquitoes
USE SKEETERBANE.
10d. & 1/5 bottle, post free.
“SURE CATCH" ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
H
BSO. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, ease-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left, full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 11 to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7i to 7$ lb. —
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
£4
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid,
BIRD LIME.
Best Quality,
2 1 - tin post free
iSporting Repairs
a .Specialty.
SR
1
*r
ej
KSB
-•
X’
827. “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels,
extension rib,
walnut stock;
rebounding- locks, left cboke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
weight about 71b Freight paid,
70/-
r
2-
Harrington an
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action
sdg
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip,
walnut stock: weight, about 6Jlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
Non-Ejector, 32/6; 82-Auto-Ejector, 37/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.;
4/8 Inter-State.
SC
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBACCONISTS
■2s*
m
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


Little Eileen Hewitt is a
True New Discovery Girl.
EILEEN HEWITT (.from, a photo.).
Little Eileen Hewitt in the uniform of
a Red Cross nurse, in which dress she has
assisted and collected big sums at various
patriotic functions.
Eileen is a genuine New Discovery Girl.
Her mother writes that she cures her
winter cold every year with Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Follow her example and
protect your children with this famous
remedy.
“Moolree,” Cremorne Road,
Cremorne Point.
Dear Sirs, —
My children, Gordon and
Eileen, are very fond of your
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
and I cure their winter colds
every year with it. The other
day I said to Eileen: “Your
cold is not well yet, Eileen.”
She answered, “I hope it won’t
get well, because you give me
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
every night and morning, and I
love it.”
She was disappointed, for her
cold quickly disappeared, and
the children’s favorite medi-
cine (and may I say Australia’s
best cough and lung mixture)
was hidden away from them in
the cupboard.
I am sending you my little
girl’s photograph, as it will in-
terest you to see such a lover
of your famous New Discovery.
I remain,
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) F. M. HEWITT.
Best for Children and Grown Folk Too.
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth of Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t delay, but buy a
bottle at once, and be ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes its appearance.
Don’t forget Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the ever-ready friend that should be in
every household, to protect you from all coughs and colds. Price 1/6 and 3s.
D? Sheldon’s
New Discover
■T_
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
3*3
Round Australia with Rex Goods
iMfli
w v
»•> r.
-%. ~ -
JSj»# T^a* 4
r~
£W.
'iiti •’‘Si;-' 1
f A
««•> -7
',. *■ S
'WB
.. <W*&.V
Tomalo Picking 3 '"
Montville Pisl
Queensland
After a Hard
Mornincfs
Work
during which the broiling
Sun has been streaming
D
•v»
on to their b nt backs, these men welcome their lunch hour
and tne appetising meal of
Camp
This all-meat dish is scientifically compounded and cooked by
tne famous “Rex” Chefs from selected morsels cf the choicest
meats. It may be eaten straight from the tin with a salad of
any kind,—tomatoes for instance.
There is enough for five persons in each tin, and if sliced thin
it makes tasty and wholesome sandwiches.
There is no crust about “Rex” Camp Pie, but it is surrounded
by a fir n palate-pleasing jelly.
Try a tin —all Grocers sell it.
U ox. * tT
“REX" HAM PATE &
“REX" VEAL AND
TONGUE PATE
are two all-meat sand-
wich fillings—try them-
mm
Foggitt, Jones & Co., Ltd.
J. 199
Packers of "Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of "Rex” Hams and Bacon
urn
Care and I.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CLOSEST friends, these twelve years
gone,
Care and I have always been;
Hand in hand we sit alone,
Silent both and staid of mien.
Many nights she shares my bed;
In her arms I, waking, lie;
We are as a couple wed,
Care and I,
Care and I.
Gentle mistress of my home,
Startled if a bell she hears,
Care is “out” when callers come;
Like a ghost she disappears.
When they’re gone I wait awhile
Ere my friend returns, perchance
With a shadow of a smile
In her glance,
In her glance.
Ours remains a secret bond.
If discovered with my mate
Never seem I kind or fond—
Lightly I dissimulate.
Scandal does us twain no ill;
Lovers only on the sly
We are unsuspected still —-
Care and I,
Care and I.
Pleasure, in a summer gown,
Light of heart and ever gay,
Loves to lure me out of town,
Take me for a holiday.
Sweet are those occasions rare;
Recreative for the mind ;
Mistress Care is half-forgot,
Left behind,
Left behind.
When the holiday is o’er,
Being once again restored
To my mistress as before,
Partner of her bed and board,
I am quietly content;
Life again a long-drawn sigh,
We are one in sentiment,
Care and I,
Care and I.
Not in black is she arrayed:
Pearly grey becomes her best.
Tastefully her robes are made—
Care is ever neatly dressed.
Very little change I see
In her face, despite the years;
Young as when she came to me
Care appears, . '
Care appears.
Constant Care, my faithful mate,
Teaches me what patience means ;
Whilst the others rail at fate,
Others envy kings and queens ;
Hand in hand we sit alone.
Breast to breast we oft-times lie,
Like a Darby and,a Joan —
Care and I,
Care and I.
VICTOBIA.
EDMUND FISHER.
Nerves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS Lawson turned his back to walk
away, Jimmy Lachlan levelled the
tomahawk and drew his arm
steadily back. It would not do to miss.
Boss Lawson had a nasty temper. More-
over, he objected to being killed. As
Jimmy’s arm flexed at its limit it hesitated
for an instant. In that instant Lawson
turned. Straight at Jimmy he walked and
knocked the chopper from his hand now
hanging limply at his side. His left hand
he placed at the back of Jimmy’s head
while he gripped the chin with his right.
The next moment Jimmy was wriggling
grotesquely on the ground with a broken
neck, much as a chicken wriggles after its
neck has been screwed. No, it did not do to
miss with Boss Lawson.
When Jimmy ceased his antics and lay
still, Lawson had gone. There were low
mutterings as the tribe gathered round, for
was not Jimmy Combo’s son? The only
remaining son of King Combo. And it was
not good to call down the wrath of the
King. Some night, no doubt, Lawson would
die with great suddenness. But not yet.
At present he was Boss Lawson, white
blac-kman. More loved, and hated, and
feared than King Combo himself. Loved
secretly by the gins of the tribe ; hated and
feared right down to the mongrel dogs in-
festing the camp.
The wrath of the tribe to Lawson was as
the wrath of the mouse to the lion. Always
did the thunder of his roar out-thunder the
roar of the tribe, and always did he con-
trive to prevent any black getting behind
him. The rest was simple. Lawson of all
men knew that the only dangerous black is
the one who walks behind.
When, after satisfying themselves that
Boss Lawson slept, the bucks held a secret
council in the scrub at the rear of the camp
long after midnight, Lawson watched from
the shelter of an ironbark. The log rolled in
his blankets would, he knew, appease the
curiosity of any wandering nigger.
After listening to the decision of the
council, that the gin Harriette should be
detailed to kill him while he slent —for
always was the white man foolisli and
would not strike a woman—he returned to
his bed to sleep out his contempt for the
decree.
* * * *
The first faint flush of grey in the east
told that it was morning. Calmly scrutinis-
ing the objects slowly taking shape ai’ound.
Lawson became aware of a figure creeping
silently towards him. Sometimes it ad-
vanced only a yard a minute, sometimes
only a foot: but always it moved in his
direction. Whether human or beast, male
or female, the light refused to reveal; but
a something at its side flashing brightly, a
single glint of the dawn told him that the
thing was human, that its name was
Harriette and that it carried a tomahawk
low along the ground as it crept.
Watching carefully, he became aware of
other figures following in the wake of the
first, some twenty feet in the rear. They
came on in a semi-circle, and in the hand
of each was a spear. A look of pleasurable
expectancy was on the faces of all.
It would never do. They had tried it
before, though never quite like this.
Familiarity was breeding contempt. Jump-
ing quickly fi'om beneath his blanket he
bore down upon them, rolling back his
sleeves as he went. Instead of scattering
into the scrub as formerly the attackers
stood their ground. It was unaccountable.
When thirty feet away he halted and glared
at the faces into which he had so often
brought a look of almost canine fear. Still
they stood their ground.
“You, Sargent! What?” he cried, glaring
fiercely into the face of the black in the
centre of the semi-circle.
The wolf-like grin on Sargent’s face
spread, and a spear whistled over Lawson’s
head.
In an instant he saw that the game was
up. The rabble which he had so long
scourged and taunted had turned. He might
come through—if the life of indolent gorg-
ing had not stiffened his joints. If it
had !
Knowing that every second counted, he
raced for the scrub on the far side of the
camp, stirring into wakefulness a pack of
yelping mongrels as he ran.
Turning his head he observed the woman
Harriette still in the lead, but at the end of
twenty minutes she had dropped out of the
hunt. For this was no race for weaklings.
Gaining his second wind, Lawson noted
with delight that idleness had not knotted
his sinews, and as the first state of panic
passed, leaving his brain clear, he set into
a steady lope which threw the miles behind
into the faces of his pursuers.
Throughout the morning he maintained
his lead, until the sun passing overhead
brought the first faint pangs of thirst. As
the first dryness tickled his throat he cast
the thought of drink from him and increased
his pace. But after a quarter fit an hour
the pangs returned, and this time he could
not cast the thought out. Still hurrying, he
tried to spit. His throat was not dry ; lie'
could spit with as much ease as when chew-
ing yams in front of King Combo’s gunyah.
He was sure of it.
The only response was a dry. sticky bead
of white saliva which stuck to his lips and
dropped heavily on to his sleeve.
With the knowledge that his spittle was
dry came the realisation that; soon he would
be unable to spit at all. Then his throat
would crackle. His tongue would swell
and fill up his mouth, clinging to the roof
until he would be unable to breathe. Thus
his pace would slacken and the pursuers,
now running grimly two hundred yards in
the rear, would draw nearer, and gaining
in distance, would gain heart also.
With the thought panic again seized him
and he doubled hig pace, leaping over logs
and boulders as he ran.
But this would not do. At first he had
gone round these. This continual jumping
was sapping his vitality more than yards
of straight running. And why should he
get flurried? Even if his throat was dry
and parched, he could still breathe through
his nose. Closing his mouth he sucked the
breath through his nostrils and found it
good. He was independent of his mouth
and could continue indefinitely now. Look-
ing back over his shoulder he hurled a shout
of derision at his pursuers and again
steadied into an even lope.
After another mile the tickle in his throat
returned, causing him to cough dryly. But
he; could still breathe freely and his pace
was unimpaired. Topping a rise, a line of
she-oaks stretched away before him in the
hollow below, and he knew he was approach-
ing Condamine Creek. He would find water
there. It would mostly be stagnant pools
at this time of year, and it might have a
coating of green slime which he would have
to brush aside with his hand ; but it would
be wet and would take the dryness from
his throat. He would lose a priceless half
minute in getting it, but the accelerated
speed which it would give would more than
compensate. He might even contrive to
carry some of it in his hat. If not, he
could follow the bank and slake his thirst
at will.
Racing down the hillside he rushed
blindly into the creek- —and stood still.
There was no water. The sand in the bed
was crisp and dry, and the pebbles were
white and shining. They had not felt the
soft caress of water for more than a month.
A shout from the pursuers on the hillside
brought him to his senses with a start,
sending him stumbling wildly along the
watercourse. For the best part of an hour
he followed it without sight of the slightest
moisture. Several times he overturned
promising stones with his feet, hut even the
froes which generally inhabited the damp
spots beneath had disappeared. And then
the creek ran itself out into a desert of
sand which stretched away to the horizon.
With the knowledge that his last chance
of water had gone the thirst returned, and
with it the panic which at the start had
confused his brain and knotted his feet. He
could never cross that sand, he knew, and
the hounds at his heels were gaining fast.
The halt in the creek bed was responsible
for that. Casting a quick glance backwards
he saw that they were not more than 30
yards away.
For the first time since the hunt com-
menced a cry escaped his lips. It was a
harsh cry. and the words rumbled slowly
through his swollen lips. Cursing as he ran.
he sucked on the pebble which he had thrust
into his mouth at the creek.
Constantly now the thirst gnawed at his
throat, and he ran with his mouth wdde
open. But he did not breathe through his
mouth ; the tongue swollen double its usual
size forbade that. The pebble had dropped
out when he stumbled.
Another glance behind showed the hunters
still 30 yards away. It occurred to him as
(Continued on next page.)


n 'TveryPicture »
IJ Tells A. 5 torv ” *
*
1
i
i?
i
THE KIDNEYS
NEVER REST.
The kidneys never take a moment’s rest; they keep on with
their great work of filtering out uric acid and kidney poisons,
day after day, night after night, as long as we live. And so
important is their work that, even though they get only a little
behind, no part of the system is free from danger; the back
aches, the limbs drag, the eyelids seem like lead ; there are
dropsical swellings, rheumatic pains, dizzy spells, urinary
troubles.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are special kidney help.
They correct urinary disorders, gravel, bladder troubles—cure
backache, rheumatism, dropsy and every kidney complaint. The genuine Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills are reliable for men and women, old and young.
Two Sydney People Cured to Stay Cured.
Mrs. F. Schroder, 9S Denison Street, Waverley, Sydney, says :—“For
a good while a member of my family suffered from rheumatism and back-
ache. _ The pain was often so severe that it was torture to move about,
especially stooping. We felt sure the kidneys were not working properly,
as there were several other marked symptoms noticeable, but the backache
and rheumatism were by far the most painful. One day Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills were recommended as a sure cure, so we sent for some, and I
am pleased to tell you they acted splendidly, three bottles making a
complete cure. Some years have elapsed since then, but there has been no
return of the trouble, so we feel safe in saying the cure is a permanent
one. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a wonderful remedy, and we never
lose an opportunity to praise them.”
Mr. Robert Larcombe, Monumental Mason, Lidcombe, Sydney, says:
“Off and on for years I suffered agony from backache and kidney trouble.
I would go to bed feeling fairly well, but on rising in the morning my
back would ache terribly. The pains were .sharp and shooting and centred
just above the kidneys. The secretions were also affected. I was advised
to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I sent for some at once. After
using the first couple of bottles I felt better, and five bottles completely
cured me. I can recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to all who
suffer with their kidneys, and feel sure they will derive benefit from them.”
Five years later, Mr. Larcombe says: “It is over five years since
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me of kidney trouble, and I have had
no return of the complaint all that time.”
CAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PI LLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
strange. His own pace had slackened, he
knew. That theirs should do likewise he
could not understand. They were without
water equally with himself, but they were
blacks, and used to it. It was no hardship
for them. A hundred yards further on he
stumbled again, but saved himself with his
outstretched palms. Next time his arms
were slow to do the bidding of his sluggish
brain, and he measured his length upon the
earth. Scrambling to his feet he looked
fearfully over his shoulder, di'eading what
the glance would reveal. The pursuers
were still there, 30 yards in the rear. He
was sure they grinned. Frequently, be-
tween his stumblings, he looked behind now,
always to be met with that tantalising
smirk, more terrible and exasperating than
all the spear-waving and shouting which
had gone before. Sargent he saw ;. Sargent,
whose blood had, bhforetimej frozen at his
approach. And Martin, and Sammy Lach-
lan. Sammy, cousin to Jimmy, Combo’s
son, whose neck he had twisted the day be-
fore. And one and all they grinned, and
remained 30 yards in the real - .
For half an hour past he had felt the
finish approaching. The stumblings were
more frequent, and he climbed slowly and
painfully to his feet only by the aid of his
hands and knees. The scant breath which
found its way to his lungs left a passage
of molten fire; the exudation left him sick
and dizzy. Without water with which to
moisten his burning tongue and thx - oat, he
knew his next fall must be the last.
As he stood and swayed erect for the last
time, an inspiration came to him which
brought a chuckle from his parched and
broken lips. As the thought took definite
form he gibbered at the idea. AVhat if the
creek was dx - y ! There would be water on
the other side of the sand stretch, and he
could get tliei’e now.
Feeling in his pockets as he staggered on,
his hopes were momentarily shattered when
he failed to discover his knife. It was
there when he started, he was sure; it
must have dropped out in one of his fre-
quent falls. Well, he still had his teeth.
The tag of his boot-lace or a pointed stick
would serve, but he could not spare the
time requisite to take out his lace, and there
were no sticks. So it had to be his teeth.
Raising his arm he selected the largest
vein. It was blue, and stood out like whip-
cord beneath the sun-dried skin of his wrist.
As the teeth sank in, bringing forth the
dark red fluid with,a spurt, he pressed it to
his mouth and sucked as he staggered on.
* * * *
It was morning. The sun had not yet
pierced the heavy hanging fog, risen un-
accountably from the sun-baked earth. As
though many eyes bored into hex - , the woman
Ilarriette stirred uncomfortably in her sleep.
At hex - side something moved—moved convul-
sively several times and then remained still.
With the sound of a great shouting in hex-
ears she sat erect, rubbing her eyes with the
knuckles of her fists. The shouting con-
tinued. It was a glad shouting as if the
tribe rejoiced over some great event-
Looking surpidsedly around, she saw a
semi-circle of blacks watching with great
intei-est and evident pleasure something on
the gi-ound at her side. From time to time
shouts proclaimed her prowess that all the
tribe might hear.
Glancing down she sidled away a yard,
quickly, on her haunches. Then she re-
turned. She could not undei-stand the tribe’s
acclamation of herself just because Boss
Lawson had bitten himself in his sleep and
died.
G. L. THOMAS.
One Moonlight Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM the end of the pier Jimmy Black
looked out across the moonlit sea. Save
for his sharply-silhouetted figure, the
night held only silver and silence; a silence
accentuated by the lap-lapping of the reced-
ing tide against the piles of the pier, resem-
bling the sound made by a woman’s skirts.
In the distance it looked as if, from a cornu-
copia in the sky, thousands of small silver
coins had been poured on to the blue cai’pet
of the bay. The air, stirred by the faintest
of breezes, was as the warm bx - eath of a
sleeping girl.
Unconscious of the beauty of the night, the
watcher on the pier stood with bent shoul-
ders and brooded. In his mind was a
thought, such as has at some time come to
every embittered egotist, of how remorseful
Lil would feel were she to learn of his death.
And drowning was said to be such an easy
and pleasant way of leaving the world. Only
a few nights befoi’e he had listened to a dis-
cussion in which the opinions of persons who
had nearly drowned were quoted to the effect
that drowning was a “beautiful death.”
Black had succeeded in convincing himself
that he seriously contemplated suicide, and
that this was the reason he was standing at
midnight at the end of a deserted pier. As a
matter of fact, he was merely playing with
the idea, as an angry child does with the
thought of leaving home and plunging its
parents into unconsolahle grief. Jimmy
Black lacked initiative to take any step so
definite. He was the sort of man who would
keep on living and would continue misei - able.
Two years of marriage—periods of tranquil
happiness and sweet companionship, inter-
rupted by petty quarrels and mutual irrita-
bility—had left him disappointed and dis-
illusioned. His had been more or less an
average matrimonial experience, but your
egotist always regards his own case as ex-
ceptional. Lately the absurd quari - els had
become more fi’equent, and were followed by
periods when for days Black and his wife
lived in the same house, met at meals, and
sat and read in the same room in the even-
ing without exchanging a word.
One of these ridiculous stalemates had now
continued for nearly a fortnight, and Black
was wishing he had the pluck to put to the
test the theory about the beauty of drown-
ing. But a poor little sulky clerk, without
the ability either to kiss or to kick an equally
sulky woman into a proper frame of mind,
does not commit suicide. Despite platitudes
mouthed by comfortable persons in arm-
chairs. there is a strain of the heroic in the
man who deliberately destroys his entire uni-
verse and sets out on a journey into the
unknown.
Jimmy gazed into the water and thought
how peaceful it looked. For long he stood
thex-e watching the tide going out, until it
seemed that silver threads were being di’awn
through his brain in the same direction.
Everything—tide, pier and Jimmy’s immor-
tal soul —seemed to be moving out to w’hei'e
those gleaming threepences and sixpences
were strewn. He had foi-gotten all about
Lil and his grievances, and the office in which
his days passed wretchedly. The gentle
motion of the water was making him drowsy.
Lifting his head, he felt suddenly giddy; he
tried to draw his hands from his pockets to
steady himself, swayed for a second —then
the water seemed to rise to meet him, and he
fell gently upon the bosom of the bay.
Despite the warmth of the night, the water
was unpleasantly cold. Jimmy received a
salty mouthful and tried unsucessfully to
spit it out. Two thoughts flashed through
his mind: that he was a d—d fool not to have
learned to swim, and that the people who
talked about the ease and beauty of drown-
ing were bigger d—d fools. Splashing about
in a futile way, he went under.
He came to the surface, ears and mouth
filled with water, some 10 yards from the
pier. To Black the distance seemed miles
and the chance of ever reaching the pier re-
mote. A terror of death seized him and he
strove wildly and unscientifically to keep
himself afloat. Each insignificant wave ap-
peared mountain high, and the gentle lap-lap-
ping of the sea became as rhythmic thunder.
The thought of drowning there, alone in the
moonlight, was intolerable, and yet he
realised the futility of his struggles. For
what seemed many minutes he stared with
wild eyes at the moon; then it was sud-
denly hidden from his sight. Once again
he was going down, down, thinking the
while that he would rise once more and then
sink for the last time. Unconsciousness
came upon him with a rush.
When his senses returned .Timmy Black
was aware of a dazzling light that hurt his
eyes. At first he thought it was the moon
still shining down upon his face, but a
moment later it became the electric light in
his own bedroom. He gave a long sigh and
closed his eyes again. A clean white sheet
came up to his chin and he could hear Lil’s
lowered voice at the other end of the room,
and, answering her, a man’s voice—Dr.
West's, he fancied. It was not worth his
while to open his eyes and find out, he felt
so nice and comfy.
Once again there was that gentle lap-lap-
ping, but this time the sound was made not
by the water, but by Lil’s skirts as she moved
across the room. He looked up at her and
gave a little whimsical smile that was meant
to convey: “Well, old girl, I’m not going to
be the first to speak.” Then he shut his
eyes to avoid the light.
Jimmy felt Lil’s cool hand upon his fore-
head. Bending over him she broke the
silence of a fortnight. “Poor old dear!” she
murmured. That curl, which he had simply
adored in his courting days but had scarcely
noticed for a year or more, tickled his nose,
Lil’s heart beat against his breast and their
lips met in a long kiss of reconciliation.
Tired, but happy, .Timmy closed his eyes
more tightly and his mind became a blank.
The body was washed upon the beach
next day. At the inquest the Coroner’s verdict
was that James Richard Black was found
drowned in the bay at Brighton; there being
no evidence to show how he got into the
water.
HARRISON OWEN.
Haunted Memory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WILL go on to the sunrise, taking the
road as it winds
Beyond three trees and a broken gate
and a great house that cannot see
Because the windows are shuttered over the
ragged blinds —•
And there is none within it to open the
door to me.
But there is a hedge in blossom and a scent
of honey is blown
Always out of the garden if one should loiter
and pass;
And it seems like a place that sometimes at
evening I must havf known,
Walking with shining feet when the dew
was wet on the grass.
But I will go on to the sunrise, for over the
hill is the sea,
Making a murmur on rocks and lifting the
salt brown weed
And a yellow flower on the cliff that is
flaunting a petal free,
While the stem below the blossom is heavy
with ripening seed.
I never have looked from the hill, but I
know how the headland runs,
Caved and crumbling, to shelter a small boat
near to the sand ;
And the quiet water flashes a thousand swift
• little suns
That the breeze chases out to the ocean and
hurries back to the land.
I will come back from the sunrise, taking the
road past the door,
By the rusted gate that is broken and the
hedge and the silent trees;
For surely a ghost walks with me who has
been here too often before,
Hearing a sob in the water and a grief in
the moan of the bees.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


fBH*
I" g
••
.■w ',. pHtt
* • <"T %
f^^k.
m a
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
L
&
r
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
Ga)-
Mice
gffga ls3&L
818 Littte Collins St. Melbourne.
i
ill
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
ed—when you feel “any-how’ f
—when your nerves are “on
edge ” —when the least exer-
tion tires you—you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘Wincar-
nis’gives new life and new
vitality to a “run-down”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a four-fold
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
d
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘Wincarnis.'
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘Wincarnis ’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Win-
carnis Works, Norwich. You can
buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists
and Stores selling wines, prices
4/3 and 7/-, but if you experi-
ence any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett & Johnson, 233
Clarence Street, Sydney. N.S.W-
LA
m
W/IgJiil
gsd
A Book of
192 Pages
C A l_l_E O
“POCKET
OUtEriSLAMD”
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling all about - tfx
Millions of Acres
offerhle lend for
intending aefflers
will be sent you
by filling in Hne
Coupon below.
/Vame ,
at/dress
QUEZHSLAHD /rvr£LL/G£fvC£
S. TOURIST BUREAU RK/S3A'<£
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
■A./
ur
WHY NOT CYCLE
for Health?
After the day’s work a cycle
ride is an excellent tonic, the
easy gentle exercise in the pure
country air provides an ideal
method of keeping fit. Cycling
is admirably adapted for both
sexes and even the elderly will
benefit by it.
RIDE A B.S.A. BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
"THOROUGHLY BRITISH.’*
For highest quality material and work-
manship the B.S.A. reputation stands
predominant. Not only is it cheaper
in the end to insist on genuine B.S.A.
Fittings, you also ensure years of easy
reliable cycling.
B.S.A. FITTINGS ARE GUARANTEED
INTERCHANGEA BLE.
A
B.S.A. Handbook
Free .
D. Y. RENNIE,
(representing B.S.A. Co Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
“Indispensable”
—a word largely used in these days—may be said to accurately express,
in so far as any single word can, what is the careful and considered
conclusion which has been arrived at by many people who use
Beeeham’s Pills. They consider that Beecham’s Pills are “indispen-
sable” to their health, and, as a matter of course, to their happiness;
and they never allow themselves to be without a supply of this valuable
medicine in their homes. This latter is an excellent idea, and one
worthy of imitation —for there is no doubt whatever, that, as a preven-
tive medicine —one that may be taken with confidence when perhaps
only an “out of sorts ” feeling is experienced and before any definite
ailment has developed—Beecham’s Pills are a positive boon. They do
good all round;— they tone up the stomach, correct the action of the
liver, regulate the bowels and are a powerful agent in purifying the
blood. It is certainly a good plan never to be without
BEECHAJVI’S
PIL>L»S
w <m »
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price IOAd (36 pills), 1/1 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
g
XF ET
1 SZ^lx
Built in
four
sizes.
COi
set
1
met nation
SCREWING MACHINES
For Pipe
Nipples
Bolts.
dsg
COMBINE your pipe, bolt
and nipple screwing on
one simple, compact
machine, and save time,
money and muscle. Backed
by more than a quarter cen-
tury of specialised study and”
experience. For details write
Charles Wright, Box 251, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australasian
Representative.
No. 300 B.
l\in. to 6in.
AUo built
for belt-
drive.
THE OSTER
MFG. CO.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
w,
4
i
And when it comes to the Saddle
say—BROOKS
Thus will you insure the first essentials to
your cycling
pleas u r e—
comfort and
durability.
ASK YOUR DEALER.
i i
trainer
/-
fim
llTiffWlTiUllllfll
(Patented)
Pig t
10/-
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
Fiq &•
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by. Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .


MANCROVIT
LEATHEH*
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAN GKO VITE” liawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured onlv by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
r: -.
1
on G
CIRCULAR SAWvS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We Have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
18in. x 11, 18in. x 13, 20in. x 13, 24in. x 10.
26in. x 11, 26in. x 12, 2Gin. x 13, 26in. x 14.
28in. x 11, 28in. x 12, 28in. x 13, 30in. x 12.
30in. x 13, 32in. x 10, 32in. x 11, 32in. x 12.
36in. x 11, 38in. x 11, 42in. x 9,42 in. x 10.
42in. x 11,. 44in. x 10, 48in. x 10.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
om,
r f>’ ’S
; .*, "*'« iT* \
-\ ■ £
X ; :: ■■&
Err\M
«s*
264 Fatrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide, John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Build a “Fire-Safe” Home of
H ARDIE’S
FIBROLITE**
Cement,
The Australian Asbestos Cement Sheets.
Defies Time’s Touch
■Wt >3?
TRAPEJARK
It is absolutely Fire-resist-
ant and proof against the
ravages of Rust, Rot,
White Ants and Decay.
Send to-day for samples
and prices.
James Hardie 8 Co. Ltd.
Corner York and Wynyard
Streets, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 —4 Lines.
581-3 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Also at Brisbane & Adelaide
R 5
§
It*.':.-
BE SURE
ITS
Wolfes
Schnapps
Look For The Name!!
mm
SCHNAPPS
SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
IdjLdTiU’
THE
Original !
/there is only
One
WOLFE’S
Schnapps
1
1
H
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine.
“Tangye” Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.
Star” Portable Oil Engine.
comprise
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies
TANGYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all types, etc,
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNGLE Chaffcutters.
CANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Grutching Plants.
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR” Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER'S POINT, SYDNEY,
m
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
FK~"!
E.R.B, Separator
Engine.
M k h
isic
Wm \
a
sim
Buncle Travelling' Chaffcutter.
HEARING MACHINES
are always dependable.
Popular with both pastoralist and shearer, because they run smoothly,
require little attention, and are economical and speedy.
The “Wolseley” is ALWAYS special quality, each machine being
expertly examined and tested before delivery.
Make enquiries from —
Dafgety & Company Utd., Australasian Agents—All Branches.
S#
This is the Pulley
generally asKed for—
But, to those tHat prefer them, we carry larg'e stocKs of WOOD,
CAST-IRON and WROUGHT-IRON Split Pulleys in all sizes
up to OOin. diameter.
Philips Pressed Steel Split Pulleys
are not ordinary “ Stocß” Pulleys their construdion represents the grea test
jnerit in the Pulley Art, and FOR GENERAL 4 ALL*ROUND ENGINEERING
AND FACTORY WORK appeal to the most discriminating of Power Users.
Sole
Distributing
Agents—
PARKE & LACY GO
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
RARE METALS CONCENTRATION
DEMANDS THE CLOSEST SAVING.
All Modern Mills are equipped
with DORR APPLIANCES —
The Classifier,
The Agitator,
The Thickener.
Write for BooKlets and all Data to
Sole Australasian Licensees —
ds
gd
Other essential equipment will, of course,
include the famous
“Card” Concentrator
of which we are Sole Builders.
Write for the “Card” Book.
Let us quote you for—
May Bros—Crushers, Rolls, Jigs.
Cam Brand—Forged Steel Shoes, Dies & Cams.
Steel-woven Battery Screens.
Rock Drills, Valves, Oil
and all Mining Accessories.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mining and Electrical Engineers, Machinery Merchants,
City Office: 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. WorKs; CAMPERPOWN, N.S.W.
